...Of Dream and Drama were formed some time back in 1995 in Mérida-Badajoz, Spain. After several changes concerning the name of the band, the band members decided themselves for the title of the nowadays world-wide famous song by Moonspell. 
The original line-up was as follows; 

José A. Gallego (guitars) 
Miguel Núñez (bass) 
Miguel A. Serradilla (vocals) 
José F. Moscatel (guitars)
Juan A. Jiménez (drums) 

The quintet first demo-tape was recorded in 1996 facing great adversities. It was entitled “Autumn Overture”. 
The track-list of this demo is as follows: 

1.Autumn Overture (Intro)
2.Bleeding Soul
3.Scars
4.Smell of Incense (Tiamat cover)
5.Serenity. 

This work was partly distributed by Repulse Records, a company settled in Madrid and ruled by Dave Rotten and other members of the Spanish best-known death metal act ever, Avulsed. Consequently, it reached some European and even Asian and North African and Central American countries.

The band recorded a few new songs later in 1997. Those compositions were never released, therefore, that work did not have any official title or cover artwork. 
Note: The version of "Mirage" appearing in MySpace is the one recorded during those sessions and the cover can be labelled as "unofficial".

Right after the recording of those songs, internal problems leaded to a line-up change. Samuel J. became part of the ...Of Dream and Drama universe as the lead guitar, whereas José F.M. found his way out of the band.
The new line-up got into the studio to record their third demo, “The Forthcoming Kingdom” in 1998.

The track-list of this demo is as follows:

1.Eonian Dreams (Intro)
2.Mirage
3.Open Frequency
4.Mesmerized (Celtic Frost cover)
5.The Moon...Erotica

This demo was also distributed by Repulse Records together with Holy Records (France). This work had an excellent acceptance among critics and listeners while the sales increased far beyond the band's expectations. An increasing number of gigs followed right after this publishing and ...Of Dream and Drama were honored with an invitation to share the stage with Avulsed in their concert in Extremadura. At that very moment, the band was at its best. A large amount of interviews for fanzines and radiostations worldwide, the interest of several labels, et cetera, came as consequence of a great work. 
Unfortunately, the shadows had already doomed the band as they split up due to several internal changes.

...Of Dream and Drama recorded their last material intending to use the name "Hearse" in November 1999. That new name never happened to be used and ...Of Dream and Drama "regained" their original name. 
Meanwhile, a new member, Álex Samhan, came to the "Drama" family to fill up the remaining void with his mystic keyboards notes.
Consequently, line-up was firmly established as follows:

José A. Gallego (guitars)
Miguel Núñez (bass)
Miguel A. Serradilla (vocals)
Samuel Axelsson (guitars) 
Juan A. Jiménez (drums) 
Álex Samhan (keys)

Those recordings were never officially released either. Nevertheless, two of those tracks were available at MySpace. One is called "To Gather Immortality" and the other "The Path". These two songs perfectly show the new direction and the efficient work the band was about to offering their fans. Even though ...Of Dream and Drama are since long ago away from stage, the band did never deny the possibility of re-recording those last songs. 

Time will tell! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/...Of+Dream+And+Drama">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.