.NEMA formed in the western suburbs of Detroit in the summer of 1995. Its origins can be traced directly back to the "heshing out" activities of emo-turned-crusty youngster Eric Prozac and former Ottawa vocalist Jeff Rice. "Heshing out" generally involved a cheap 40 ouncer accompanied by a tape of either Bolt Thrower or Hellhammer while sitting on the front stoop of Prozac's apartment in Westland. It was under these circumstances of sheer suburban boredom that the first chords of many future .NEMA classics were first strummed.

The initial line up consisted of Prozac on guitar, Rice on vocals, Council Records mogul Matt Weeks on second guitar, HC hearthrob and Abiology Records CEO Eric Kane on vocals, and party animal Sean Pettibone on drums. After a few practices, Lars "the Mack" Makie added his bass talents and Kim Henninger became a ludicrous 3rd member of the .NEMA vocal troupe. This line-up was responsible for the atrocious self-titled demo that Council/Abiology released in August 1995. Aside from some humorous between song soundbites, this demo is an absolutely mundane exercise in mid-90s power violence/grindcore tedium.

Immediately following the release of the demo, Pettibone was jettisoned from the line-up and replaced with legendary Jaks/Bedwetters drummer Shawn Gates. This line-up made several live appearances and released two 7" EPs- one self-titled 7" and a split 7" with Ontario thrashers Warfare State (future members of Rammer and Born Dead Icons). After a brief string of shows with Three Studies For A Crucifixion and Coleman, .NEMA went on a long hiatus with the departure of Kane and Weeks for a shitty college town known as Prescott. Prozac, Rice and Gates continued on as Dysentery, a terribly named and short-lived black metal project. Rice and Prozac also went on to form Kathode with future Def Jam recording artist Andrew WK and .NEMA roadie Mike Williams.

Fast forward to summer of 1997. All .NEMA members, with the exception of Kim Henninger and DJ Lars Mack Attack, converged in Eric Prozac's Detroit crash pad for a practice that was eventful for the following two reasons - first .NEMA was back on track and second Mr. Cotton, the 90 year old next door neighbor, ran away screaming in terror. New bassist Karl Gurganus was drafted to take over bass duties from the recently expatriated Lars Makie and the new, improved .NEMA decided to take its show on the road.

.NEMA played 8 shows on a 9 day tour in late August 1997 with the Columbus, Ohio powerhouse Inept. Inept featured a bassist who bore an uncanny resemblance to Young Ones cast member Nigel Planer, as well as future MRR head honcho Mike Thorne. Reception was lukewarm in most cities but Montreal surprised them with hordes of drunken/dusted Francophone crusties chanting "More beer for punks!" and "Bring back the devil!". Along with shows at east coast institutions ABC No Rio and Stalag 13, the tour also brought .NEMA and Inept to Deposit, New York, home of the legendary Schaefer Logging Company.

Upon returning from tour, the band began preparing for its first and only full-length album "Bring Our Curses Home". Recorded at Woodshed Studios with aid of Tim Pak in January of 1998 during 24 grueling hours, the album was finally released in early 1999 by Sound Pollution Records. The CD version of this album also contained all of the band's previous vinyl appearances and the tracks from the aborted .NEMA/Inept split 7". Although the recording of the LP effectively ended the band, there is still the odd chance that there will be yet another installment of the .NEMA Summer Camp sometime in the future... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/.Nema">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.