Several bands/artists go by the name of 13:
1. a sludge/doom metal band from New York, NY, United States.
2. a grunge band from Pilsen, Czech Republic.
3. an indie blues/rock & roll band from Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
4. a DJ and producer from Seattle, WA, United States.
5. a metal visual kei band from Kansai, Japan. See 「13」
6.  hip-hop artist from Hollywood, Los Angeles.
7. a heavy/thrash metal band from Lithuania (1988-1989) .
8. a modern streetpunk / oicore band from Russia.
9. a blues, blues rock, blues band from California led by Lester Butler.

1. Formed in 1992 in New York, 13 are a sludge/doom metal band with members of Electric Wizard and Sourvein. 
With lyrics that often focus on alienation and abuse, they started out as Thunderpussy 13 in 1990. Guitarist Liz Buckingham, and drummer Ellen Mieczkowski, were the founders of this creation. After dropping the name 'Thunderpussy', they recruited singer Alicia Morgan (who is also the girlfriend of Mike Williams of Eyehategod) and bassist, Sean in 1992 (who left in 1993). 
Inspired by Celtic Frost, St. Vitus, Melvins, Winter and Mountains, their mission was to play music "that hurts you physically when you hear it!". Their first demo contained three songs and had a guest appearance by native New Yorker Dan Lilker of Nuclear Assault and Brutal Truth. 
They also did split 7"s with Grief (a band they were closely tied with) from Boston, MA, on Grievance Records and Eyehategod. After playing several shows in and outside of New York with bands such as Pungent Stench, St. Vitus, Buzzoven, Misery, Chaos UK, Cathedral, Pentagram, and Incantation, and releasing the single Hollow on Relapse Records, the band called it quits. 13's Liz and Alicia also recorded with members of Eyehategod in a side project called Never, and Liz is currently playing with Electric Wizard.

2. 13 is a Czech grunge band from Pilsen formed in 2004. More info on this web page: http://www.virb.com/13grunge

3. 13 from Amsterdam, The Netherlands, plays an indie brand of 'big city blues', formed in 1995 and fronted by Robin Berlijn. The other band members are Henk Jonkers (formerly in The Fatal Flowers) and Dick Brouwer (formerly in The Soft Parade).
The band played many a live show in The Netherlands in 1995 and 1996, but their début album was never finished... until fifteen years later: the album (11) was finally put out on Excelsior Recordings in 2010.

4. 13 is a DJ and Producer Originally from Seattle, now residing in Los Angeles, is the owner and creator of DJTEQ Studios, "by DJ's for DJ's" a full service studio specializing in electronic music production.
 
As a DJ, 13 trancends the lines of genre delivering a slab of innovative tunes with his flawless mixing style, programming and track selection. Well known for breaking tracks and rocking crowds all over the West Coast and soon to be the World. Early influences include: Depeche Mode, New Order, Soft Cell and classic rockers such as The Steve Miller band and Dire Straits. He has shared the stage with renowned DJs such as Ministry of Sound's Paul Sparkes, DJ Icey, EVA, BPM, MarQ, Chronus, and has a knack for breaking new music. 13's background in mechanical engineering has helped define his production work, where he creates the dirtiest broken beats to the techiest of trance. He has worked with Medway (Bedrock and HooJ), EVA (Global Underground), and Richard File (Unkle). Heavily influenced by Sasha, Digweed, along with a fondness for all things Bedrock, and early Oakenfold, Nick Muir, Shiloh & Weekend World. (this taken from his myspace site).  
You can also find more info about him here www.djteq.com and www.myspace.com/dj13 and http://people.tribe.net/dohcvtec187

5. 13 was also a Kansai metal visual kei band that split up in January 2007. They released two singles and a mini-album before departing the scene after two years. See 「13」

7. 13 (Trylika) was a heavy/thrash metal band from Lithuania (1988-1989).
Last known lineup:
Artūras Gumbrevičius-Ačkazauras - vocals (R.I.P.)
Arijus Skorupskis - rhythm guitar
Anatolijus Rozumas - lead guitar
Marius Klusas - bass
Vladimiras Lavrentjevas - drums
The birth of 13, a heavy/thrash metal band from Kaunas, Lithuania - 13 February 1988. Band was started in Kaunas Freda Culture House.
Band belonged to Kaunas Rock Club. In 1988, band were the winners in festivals like "Elektrinė gitara", „Žemaitijos taurė“, „Aukštaitijos taurė“, „Papūga“, „Hard Express“. In 1989, band's concert was broadcast on East German (German Democratic Republic or GDR) television.
Band's main influences included Metallica, Coroner, Motörhead, Pink Floyd, Anthrax, Venom, Judas Priest. Band disbanded in 1989. 13 existed for 1 year, but it will always be remembered by people for it's strong and influential music.

8. Russian streetpunk/ oicore released Не отступай! album in 2013

9. 13 was a blues, blues rock, blues band from California led by Lester Butler. Lester Butler (November 12, 1959 – May 9, 1998) was an American blues harmonica player and singer. He achieved fame as the singer and harmonica player for the Los Angeles, California, based blues roots band, The Red Devils and 13.

Butler was born in Virginia, United States.

The Red Devils (originally known as The Blue Shadows) released one album, 1992's King King. It was produced by Rick Rubin on his Def American record label. The group featured drummer Bill Bateman (of The Blasters), Johnny Ray Bartel on bass, Dave Lee Bartel on rhythm guitar, Paul Size on lead guitar, and pianist Gene Taylor. The Red Devils recorded 22 tracks with Mick Jagger in June 1992, again produced by Rubin, though the tracks were not issued at the time (they have since cropped up on various bootlegs, and one track was officially released on a Jagger compilation on Rhino Records in 2007). The band also backed the actor and sometime musician Bruce Willis, when the action star performed at his Planet Hollywood clubs. The Devils also backed Johnny Cash on music that was not released until after the country singer's death, on the boxed set Unearthed. Butler also played on Rancid's 1998 album Life Won't Wait.

After the breakup of The Red Devils, Butler also fronted the band, '13', releasing one self-titled record on Hightone Records in 1997. The original members of '13' included Kid Ramos on guitar, James Intveld on bass, and Johnny Morgan on drums. The recorded release of '13' on Hightone Records was produced by Warren Croyle and features Stephen Hodges and Johnny Morgan on drums, Tom Leavey and James Moore on bass, Andy Kaulkin on keyboards, with Alex Schultz, Smokey Hormel, Paul Bryant, and Doug Hamlin on guitar. Butler achieved his greatest fame in Europe, especially the Netherlands, where the 'Lester Butler Tribute Band' still performs.

Butler died of an overdose of heroin and cocaine on May 9, 1998, in Los Angeles at the age of 38. Two of his friends, who were involved in his overdose, were convicted of involuntary manslaughter.

Work with other artists

Butler played harmonica on "Shake Your Hips" track which appears on the Billy Boy Arnold album, Back Where I Belong, released on Alligator in 1993. Along with Zach Zunis and Jimmy Rip, Butler played on the King Ernest album, King of Hearts which was released in 1997.

Wikipedia: Lester Butler <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/13">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.