Two Brothers, originally from Hobbs, NM now living in Houston, TX where they've teamed up with the likes of Devin the Dude and other hard-hitting dirty south rappers. 14k was formed in '97 when Kyle ( Quad ), and Brandon ( Wood ) discovered the chemistry within' the two that had been there all along. After a brief, over-the-phone audition for well-known rapper Devin the Dude, it wasn't long before the two were on their to the Dirty Dirty themselves. 14k is scheduled to make their debut later this year with the originally dynamic Coughee Brothaz, A collaboration of alot of other artists such as the Odd Squad, and Gang Green, just to name a couple. The group has already began traveling with the collaborated group of rappers, and say that they are having the time of their lives learning the ropes for what they feel lies ahead of them. March 20th, 2007, the group will be making their international debut on Devin the Dude's highly-anticipated, "Waiting to Inhale" album. 14k has also been working on their group project, unofficially titled "Wake Up" and plans to release it soon, but says right now, it's all about helping to get the Coughee Brothaz project the recognition, and love that it's due. In the meanwhile, the group has been writing and producing songs for various local, up and coming Houston artists under their production team which they call Big Bread. Taking their Southwest flavor, and mixing it with some down south, heavy bass licks has definately opened a few ears to their sound. They rapp, they sing, they write, they produce, they're brothers. 14k is sure to be a breath of fresh air for hip-hop heads, and a break from the typical. Be sure to keep checking back to this site for monthly updates, and song rotation. Then judge for yourself. The group has been quoted for saying " Our success will be a reflection of our faith. If our faith withers, then so will our success. If our faith is undeniable, then our success will be as well. Our life, and ambitions embodies much more than just music. 

www.myspace.com/14kfever <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/14K">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.