15 Times Dead originally formed as a 5 piece in 2004 and quickly cemented their place as one of the must see bands of the Glasgow, Scotland metal scene.  They’ve taken influences from some of the major rock and metal bands of the past thirty years to create their own sound and style, with brain pummelling riffs so heavy and chunky that their fans proudly label it Girth Metal. 

Priding themselves on their explosive and entertaining live performances, their early successes included reaching the Scottish Final of the global Emergenza Battle of the Bands at the start of 2005 playing to a packed O2 Academy in Glasgow with the judges calling them “A powerful act with a very distinct style and a lot of energy on stage”.

From this early success the band continued to grow and, after producing their first four track demo, they were invited to play at the Godless Festival in Stoke, sharing the stage with other unsigned bands from across the UK.

In 2007 Terrorizer magazine listed 15 Times Dead as one of the new bands to look out for in the coming year, and the year itself culminated with the self-produced digital single - Ride the Pain.

2008 continued the band's success with key support slots with Panic Cell, Blitzkrieg and Blaze Bayley while also appearing as the headline unsigned band at the inaugural Monsterz of Rock & Metal Festival in Dundee.  The band also won their way through to the UK Finals of Bloodstock Unsigned before taking an enforced hiatus in July 2008.

In May 2009 15 Times Dead returned as a 4 piece and refined their sound to further enhance their own personal brand of metal.

Since then they have been growing steadily stronger and building up their fan base throughout the UK.  After a crowd winning appearance at the Hard Rock Hell IV festival in Wales sharing the stage with the likes of UFO, Uriah Heep, Skid Row, Helloween, Saxon, Michael Schenker Group, Airbourne and many more.

2011 saw them spending most of the time working on their debut album, Metasultra, with its release in October 2012 under Casket Records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/15+Times+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.