The 1KillEmbrace is not a newly formed group, the name actually means the reformation, the new era of the band. The name, previously known as Killing Art was changed in order to indicate the significant changes happened in the life of the band. 

Not only changes of the members happened, but the tracks were also altered notably. A new frontman has joined us István Kovács (Empyema). The departure of Péter Bokros, keyboardist is also a very essential change, so the instrumentation has been varied, it has become harsher and harder than it was before. The most conspicuous changes affect the lyrics, they are namely new, so the strusture of the songs and the choruses also have been altered. Considering all these it was reasonable to us to change the name of the band too. At the same time we stepped on a new, harder way because we must familiarize the new name and make it real in those who have known and loved the group up to now.

Two studio albums were born under the name Killing Art, a promotional demo with two tracks and the more significant single called Confused Waves which was produced in two languages. The latter has had very good feedbacks our concerts.

We have toured at many places and we'd like to gain benefits from this. Our bigger performancees are in connection whit festivals, fortunatley we managed to play more domestic fests (Gothica, Undead, Heavymetal.hu, Metal Millennium, Nightbreed). We performed at full many sucessful club - parties and in Slovakia as well. The Székelyföldi Rockmaraton in Transsylvania which gave us a perpetual experience deserves an extra mention.

You should and have to know about our approach of the band, that prime aspects are the high standard and the quality. Externals in the field og music have been secondary nevertheless we'd like to aim and reach the high - standard classes in the way of the sounding and the musical quality. Naturally we also enjoy the spectacular preformance on the stage and we endeavour to do it too, but we don't consider our task as something that communicates a sort of external look, style or way of living, but only the love of music and the due lowliness in our attitude to music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/1KillEmbrace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.