Nathan Fuller (April 6, 2004) widely known as 1nonly is an American-born singer, rapper and songwriter born in Las Vegas, Nevada. He is best acknowledged for his hit single ''Stay With Me'' accumulating over 100 million streams on Spotify. His primary genre of music is considered ''Aesthetic Rap'', however his initial start of his musical career started with the production of "Bedroom Pop" generating songs such as "Forever In Love" and "I Fell In Love With You One Night".

Born in Las Vegas, Nevada, 1nonly first dabbled in Garageband in music class, often for fun without any real serious intent. However, 1nonly's first song, Forever in Love, would be first uploaded to Soundcloud on the 16th of January, 2019. This sparked the production of his Bedroom Pop genre of music. His songs were regarding love and delicate emotions, often ran by a lofi-style hip-hop beat. This genre of music would continue, with small differences such as the addition of stronger bass and percussion until the 18th of June, 2020, as the release of "Doc Martens" would be the song that kickstarts his now present day genre of Aesthetic Rap.

After realising the success Doc Martens received, he would later on the 15th of August, release, now a widely recognized song, Bunny Girl. This song was an massive success, recieveing over millions of streams across a multitude of platforms, and he would later upload an official music video to part with the song to YouTube. He continued to stick with the Aesthetic Rap genre and would go on to make memorable songs such as "Shakira!", "Lovely", "Fuck You!" etc. On the 11th of October, 2020, 1nonly would go onto to release his new song "Stay with Me". This song would reach records he had not achieved, and by date of creation has amassed over 150+ million streams on Spotify, causing it to go platinum. His unique style of lyrics and use of TikTok famous songs as sample truely secures an devoted audience.

1nonly is known for collaborating with many artists, to name, Lilbubblegum, Shady Moon, Ciscaux and many more. He has also been featured on Softwilly's YouTube channel in their video "We made a BANGER album on discord", and sang on ILY BABY - 1NONLY x SHADYMOON x VOID x LARRY and CHROME BERETTA (ft. Satori Zoom, Void, & Lex Pain). He is currently part of the rap collective "The World Is Yours". 1nonly's most notable producers are Nategoyard, $UPREME, and Shenrxn. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/1NONLY">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.