A bio should really point a reader in the direction they need to go. Not blast him and sugarcoat something to make it stand out from what it really is. Bios now days are just a joke, but a necessary evil. The typical bios that describe "Thundering bass lines, crunchy riffs, bone-crushing drums" etc, just need to stop. There are too many bands out today that have the same bio. What the "Changstas" want a reader to understand is that they have put their time in the trenches, love what they do and have a great time doing it. That's basically it. No bone-crushing or ear-shattering, make you poop your pants anything. Just good ole' heavy rock and roll. It's a rock show for Christ's sake! It's really all about just doing what you love and hoping others catch on. 2 Headed Chang consists of a group of guys who have a passion for heavy music and having a fun time doing it. Fun is concept that is sorely lacking in today's musical landscape, not just with heavy music, but music in general. The music is definitely serious, but you don't have to convince people that your music is serious. Have a passion for your music, but don't take yourself so seriously. Chang just wants people to join them in kicking ass, letting loose, and in general just having a blast. Check it out, turn it up and keep the true spirit of metal alive! 
Now, that THAT'S done with, 2 Headed Chang was started in 1998 by a group of guys that wanted to make their own sound, not necessarily a NEW sound, but something that was their creation. When you hear 2 Headed Chang, you know it. There is an infectious aura of fun and recklessness that surrounds these tight knit musicians. Everywhere they play they are making friends instead of just fans. Their attitude towards what they do is completely inclusive compared to the exclusive trend that has followed around much of the heavy music, and musicians of today. Their live show is a ball of energy that people can't take their eyes off of. 
They've been fans of metal and heavy music from KISS and Motley Crue, to Suicidal Tendencies and Hatebreed, to Cannibal Corpse and Slayer, since the beginning and they noticed that no one really touched the whole spectrum. 2 Headed Chang takes the fun party attitude of 80's metal and the music of hardcore and extreme metal and they blend it together in a way that goes beyond the music and generates a feeling that all the "causes" and cares of the world can be put on the back burner for a few minutes so you can just rock out. Like we said before, We're not gonna tell you what's there or not there, just check it out, turn it up, and rock.

2 Headed Chang is:
Kurt Caron – Vocals
Coleman Thornburg – Guitar
Brian Valentino – Guitar
Adam DeBock – Bass
Joel Hiatt – Drums

For an interview with adrenalinfanzine.com http://www.adrenalinfanzine.com/2headedchang.html <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/2+Headed+Chang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.