2nd Suicide is a Finnish melodic death metal band founded in spring 2004. The bands offers some of their music for free on their mikseri.net account (see below)

The story of 2nd Suicide began during spring 2004 when three gentlemen from the capital area of Finland, Lauri Helenius (guitar), Janos Pap (guitar) and Vesa Norrbacka (bass) decided to join forces and create a band. However, shortly after this Janos felt the urge to explore the planet earth and moved to Australia to become a beachbum.

After lots of hassle and booze a replacement for Janos was found. Heikki Laakso joined the band to play guitar and in addition his roommate, Tero Arvola, was a drummer who was also looking for a band so we auditioned him and voilá, we had almost a full line-up.

Lots of rehearsing and writing music during the summer-autumn of 2004. Well, booze too.

Things looked pretty nice apart from the fact that we didn't have a singer. To solve this and finally complete the circle of 2nd Suicide we put up ads on several websites announcing that we were looking for a singer. We got quite a few responses and auditioned a few of them. The last one to auditon was Ator The Barbarian, a.k.a. Toni Toivonen. His growling-capabilities convinced us and there we had it; a full line-up.

During the late summer of 2005 Heikki got fed up with the whole Gothenburg-sound and resigned so it was time for some more ads. Mikko Pekkanen took the bait and joined our ranks on the last quarter of 2005.

During the winter-spring 2006 2nd Suicide had its first gigs and our first demo was recorded on June 2006.

Shortly after the recording-sessions Vesa showed lack of motivation towards 2nd Suicide and eventually resigned during the darkening days of October.

A month passed without a bassplayer until we got news that a friend of a friend who happened to play the bass had just resigned from his former band. Toni called him asking if he'd be interested in joining us and, to our fortune, yes he was. He joined us for our rehearsals a few weeks later and it didn't take us long to realize that this was the man to play the bass for 2nd Suicide, and so Joni Kauppinen was recruited.

At the end of November 2006 Tero moved to Malaysia as an exchange student and was replaced by Wellu Helenius also known from The Wake.

Our 2nd demo, titled Last of Kin, was recorded during January 2007 with the new line-up. Mixing and mastering took place during February and we're all very pleased with the outcome. Covers and discs got printed & pressed a few months later. Only a few of the demos were actually sent since we're lazy bastards.

Later in the spring 2nd Suicide entered a competition, mainly to get into a compilation called SavePoint Heavy Metal Collection vol.2 The band ended up winning the main prize, and were awarded free studio time in the fall to record a song!

Toni had worked in D-Studio as a technician during the summer, so it was obvious where the band would be recording. For the same reason 2nd Suicide got the chance to record two songs, if it could be done in the given time. 2nd Suicide didn't crack under pressure, and so Epitaph For The Proud and Garden of Stone were re-recorded in better quality!

During the end of the year we played a couple of gigs, and one in the early stages of 2008. It turned out to be the last one for a while.

In March 2nd Suicide encountered some rough times. First we lost our rehearsal room and then Wellu decided to concentrate on guitar and his own musical aspirations, leaving the drums altogether.

The band went into a quiet hiatus as a result of these major blows.

However, the story of 2nd Suicide was far from over. The itch for playing together drove the remaining members back together after the summer, searching new facilities and a new drummer. This quest took time and loads of booze, but by the end of the year 2nd Suicide had a new rehearsal room.

Now there was only the drummer to be found.

There were a couple of alternatives, but in January 2009 the young and very talented Joonas Osara blew the band away with his energetic and precise skills. After a few a beers and a chat the band was complete again!

Having the line-up intact, 2nd Suicide has been training and writing new material throughout the year 2009. Arrangements are being made to get 2nd Suicide on the road again, and we are planning to tour around Finland in the dark days of winter!

In the spring of 2010 2nd Suicide continued to work on the new material, and after a small summer break, these songs were finalized. The rehearsing room also changed, and we joined forces with Mr. Osara’s other band Overstraind.

The band once again entered the infamous D-Studio in September 2010 to record 4 new tracks. These songs made the 3rd demo/EP called The Icarean Tomb. The Icarean Tomb shows a darker and more aggressive side of the band, yet holding on to the technicality and sound related to 2nd Suicide.

With this new record, the band started to search a record label with a solemn intent to reach out to every corner of the world. While searching for a record label, the band is also doing gigs with other rising Finnish acts.

An unseen future lies ahead... 

Current line-up is:
Toni Toivonen - vocals
Lauri Helenius - guitar
Mikko Pekkanen - guitar
Joni Kauppinen - bass
Joonas Osara - drums

http://www.2ndsuicide.com
http://www.myspace.com/2ndsuicideofficial
http://www.mikseri.net/artists/?id=48394 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/2nd+Suicide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.