3 Phase aka Sven Röhrig started with punk and experimental electroacustic music at the beginning of the 80´s

By 1984 this had developed to some kind of sound terrorism with acoustic attempts and timebombs. Things like percussion performances in stairhouses of high populated buildings and time"bomb" happenings with tapeloop based objects "to be destroyed" in order to stop them. The high score was 12 police cars within ten minutes and a closed down floor on a huge shopping center.

1986 VirusLab Studios were founded...

1987 Living in London, producing with Gerechtigkeits Liga/ Boomfactory

1988 Boomfactory/Taste the Lash On IN9, back to Berlin.

1989...The Berlin wall opened

After that House and techno turned into an authentic and integral part of the city. Sven started to work under the pseudonym 3 Phase

As a result the 1991 produced track Der Klang Der Familie , co produced by Dr.Motte, was released on Novamute UK and Transmat US and turned into something like the first international Berlin techno hit.

Live gigs, Album releases and remixes followed. Business as usual.

3 Phase had his always moving Viruslab studios sometimes down in a separated tresor chamber in the Tresor club where tracks like "Current One" were produced... 1993 the Viruslabs moved over to the planet club... 4th floor best view instead wet Tresor dungeon... The albums Schlangenfarm and Straight Road were produced there.

The commercial sellout of techno in the mid 90´s and a general situation where it was impossible to do what you want musically, demotivated 3 Phase and forced him to reduce his release activities. What was a great thing before turned somehow ugly. At least from a Berlin perspective where the Love Parade, that was an international meeting point of the scene before, has turned into that unholy TV promoted monster with 1 million pill munching teenagers.

The rare 3 Phase productions from 1995-2004 mostly tried to avoid to be DJ or club food ...

The 1995 recorded ambient Album "Sub-D" (97 MFS) and the 2002 "The Floppy Mind" Album frame that period

The re/opening of the Berlin Ostgut/Berghain Club end 2004 motivated and inspired 3 Phase to do club-orientated tracks and live sets again...After the music industry has lost the interest in house culture, the scene is developing well and there is reason to participate again.

So the technoid club orientated side of the 3 Phase project is relaunched and after a while of doing just improvised live sets the Virus Lab studio reached its 13th permutation in October 2006 that will lead to new material and edits of the lost tapes soon..  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/3+Phase">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.