4ARM are a Melbourne Groove / Thrash metal band with a mixture of influences, including  Machine Head, Metallica and Testament.

Since 2004, 4ARM has impressed audiences with a style that is musically distinctive, aggressive and explosive. 2005 saw the band release their debut full length album, entitled '13 Scars'. The material was compelling enough to result in a nomination as one of the top 5 Metal Bands at the 2006 Music Oz Awards. It also led to endorsements with Randall Amplifiers, Mesa Engineering, ESP Guitars and Dean Markley strings for vocalist/guitarist Danny Tomb and bassist Andy Hinterreiter. Additionally, the band started receiving regular airplay from various metal-themed radio stations, and became known for their intense live performances.

In 2009, 4ARM entered the studio to record their 2nd full length album, entitled 'The Empires Of Death'. Harnessing the energy of '13 Scars',  the band added a songwriting style that was more thought-out and mature. 'The Empires Of Death' further solidified 4ARM's place in the scene and garnered many new fans.  Drummer Michael Vafiotis became the first Australian artist to sign national endorsement deals with Ahead Drumsticks, as well as Tama Drums. Johnny Glovasa signed with Ibanez guitars and the band signed sponsorship deals with Rockstar Energy Drinks and ED Stone clothing.

In 2010, 4ARM would embark on a headline tour of Australia which was billed the 'Crush the Empire Tour'. They also toured with international act Testament on the Australian leg of 'THE DAMNATION TOUR'.

As of 2011, 4ARM have taken their experience, dedication and ability to new levels. Hungry to stay busy and refusing to kill their momentum, they recently entered the studio to record their 3rd full length album, entitled 'Submission for Liberty'. To obtain the production quality the band has always sought, 4ARM teamed up with Matt Hyde (Machine Head, Slipknot, Trivium) to mix the album. It includes 10 aggressive, energetic and painstakingly thought-out songs with soaring chorus lines, provocative versus, pounding drums and monster riffs. It has all the elements of a great "Thrash" album.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/4Arm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.