65daysofstatic began in Sheffield, United Kingdom in 2001 as Iain Armstrong, Paul Wolinski and Joe Shrewsbury. They originally formed to try to write music to fit the deleted 1983 John Carpenter film, 'Stealth Bomber' (starring Kurt Russell) after Joe watched a bootleg of it missing the sound.

65daysofstatic (also known by the abbreviation 65dos or 65days) are an instrumental electronic and post-rock band from Sheffield, UK. Their debut album, The Fall of Math (2004), was released to critical acclaim.

The band intersperses heavy, progressive, guitar-driven instrumental sections with both IDM-esque programmed and live drums. Their albums, as a result, maintain a distinctively gritty, almost industrial feel.

Armstrong left in May 2003, Feedle (Graham Clarke) then joined for a brief period and played a part in writing the band's first single from The Fall of Math, Retreat! Retreat!. By the end of 2003 Rob Jones (drums) and Gareth Hughes (bass) had been recruited, increasing the band to four members. Gareth left around the time of the release of their debut album, The Fall of Math, to be replaced by Simon Wright. 

The second album, One Time For All Time (2005), had a discreet success. In the same year they remixed Burn from the album Crimson by Alkaline Trio. The track appears on one 7inch vinyl out of a set of 2.

The third LP, The Destruction of Small Ideas (2007), was indeed a hit with fans and critics. It was anticipated by the release of its single Don't Go Down To Sorrow.

Their live album, Escape From New York, was released on 20th April 2009 and featured two new tracks: No Use Crying Over (Some Techno) and Four Score and (Some Drum 'n' Bass).

The fourth LP, We Were Exploding Anyway (2010) was released on 26th April 2010. It was anticipated by the release, in Japan only, of a single from the album entitled  Weak4.

The fifth studio album, Wild Light (2013) was released on Sept 16, 2013 in Europe and Oct 29, 2013 in the US. The 8-track album was released on the Superball Music label.

2016 - Soundtrack for "No Man's Sky" video game
The band is providing the soundtrack to the much anticipated video game "No Man's Sky", developed by Hello Games and due for release in June, 2016. The game will initially be launched exclusively on the PlayStation 4. The trailer for the game was shown at E3 in 2014, which featured the band's "Debutante" track. The band has since composed the entire soundtrack and created a "No Man's Sky" album.

Following the experience of writing generative, "infinite" music for No Man's Sky, the band scrapped an album that sounded like their older work and took an experimental audiovisual show Decomposition Theory on tour in 2017, curating live results of playing instruments into algorithmic software that manipulated the sounds in unexpected ways. “We’re trying to remember to look back at the show from the perspective of the audience and make this more than purely self-indulgent or just improvisation,” commented Paul. “All of this can exist in an elastic, liquid timing, but it’s always going to hit certain moments that bring it all back together.” The recorded and unique shows were not released officially but were circulated as bootlegs within the 65dos community.

2019 - A Year of Wreckage and replicr, 2019
On May 1st of 2019, the band began a yearlong musical project entitled "Unreleased/Unreleasable Vol. 4 - A Year of Wreckage". New material is released monthly via the band’s own Bandcamp subscription service. It is described by the band on their website as "an archive of primordial 65 sound palettes, a catalog of (computer) errors and guitar glitches, drone ambience and breakcore math insanity, bleak strategies and escape tunnels". With each new release to subscribers, the previous one will become available as a standalone E.P on the band's Bandcamp page.

The band released their seventh (or eighth) official studio album replicr, 2019 in October. The Year of Wreckage project concluded with the April 1 2020 release of the Endings EP and a special 60 minute coronavirus pandemic remix of Safe Passage.

Interesting fact: Early Arctic Monkeys have been supporting 65daysofstatic on their tour
https://www.65daysofstatic.com
https://65daysofstatic.bandcamp.com
http://www.myspace.com/11488230 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/65daysofstatic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.