6th Awakening was born in the autumn of 2001 with a wish of combining the various influences of the members and make something new. This to make an awakening for the listener musically as well as lyrically. Thus the peculiar sound took form. The startup setting of the band:
Drums - Mikael, Guitar - Mathias.H, Robert, Bass - Christer, Vocals - Lovisa

The members of the band has generally been the same, with an exception of the bass player. Christer played the bass on the first recording. During the summer of 2003, Christer choose to leave since his undertaking in his other band - Auberon, acquired a lot of time. From that time Mathias.J entered the band. He did not only suit 6th Awakening, but also constituted the last piece of 6th Awakening's matrix.

In February 2004 the band began the recording of the second recording which went by the name Perfect War. The band had now begun to perform live more frequently.

In September the time had come for a recording of a first video to Tongue Reaper. Now standing as a band bonded together, with a specific goal and the definite inspiration to work for it, 6th Awakening embraces their future.

The rumour of 6th Awakening started to spread and the band got a couple of appearances in the local newspapers. A reporter for the local TV4 station got wind of the band and decided to do an interview.
During the taping of the piece a question of where the band would like to play in the future came up and for kicks the band answered: the opera house.
Right then and there the reporter got in his car, drove to the opera house and got the artistic director of the opera to say that the opera needed more metal in the house and of cource side by side with the symphony orchestra.

Soon the work started and by the beginning of 2005 the songs and the project had gotten too far to be stopped. It ended up a three band show with fellow metalheads Nocturnal Rites
and Persuader

By April 1st and 2nd of 2005 the opera house was packed with people and 6th Awakening, Nocturnal Rites, Persuader and the symphony orchestra put on a once in a lifetime show. The response was incredible and by the end of it all the Swedish TV and Radio had recorded the shows. Due to stress and total fetit the band went back to the rehearsal to get down to the ground once again. Merciless work started, to follow up the Perfect War recordings, and on a dark night in the fall of 2005 they entered the studio again. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/6th+Awakening">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.