Craig Smith & Graeme Clark have worked together in the studio for almost a decade, producing deep, underground house music and exploring long forgotten funk and dusty disco dubs. Recent studio output has featured on the much sought after L.E.S.S. Productions label aswell as Jisco Music, Instruments Of Rapture and Delusions Of Grandeur.
Their debut album "One Night In The Borough" was released on Delusions of Grandeur in May 2011.

Craig's 10 year residency at The Honeycomb in Edinburgh saw him play, host and gain the respect of all the players on the dance music scene. A stalwart on the scene from a young age this eventually lead him to make his DJ'ing debut in 1987 at Edinburgh's legendary club night The Hooch. He has had records out on various labels such as EMI, Virgin, Hush Hush, In Demand, Maxi, Five20East and Soul Heaven under his own name and various guises, such as Harden Soul Project, The Wayfarers, The Soul Renegades and The Shaw Height Assembly.
He has remixed tracks for the likes of Cevin Fisher, Roland Clark, Afro Medusa, Beverly Knight, Soul Providers, Moloko, and the Hong Kong Micros amongst others. Currently working on new music with production partner Graeme Clark (The Revenge).

Graeme moved to Glasgow from his home town on the east coast in 2002 and started DJing more and more aswell as editing some of his favourite records to enhance his sets. He also began to play live with his friend Paul McGlashan in their electronic band, Deportivo Street Team, playing a fusion of house and techno. It was around this time that Graeme forged friendships with Ali Herron whom he would go on to work with as OOFT Music and Simon Murray (Deep Space Orchestra) whom he would work with as Cronk Family Enterprises.

Now producing for over 15 years, Graeme continues to put his fingers to work on a variety of projects in the studio aswell as touring as a DJ most weekends. Recent work has included music for DFA, Buzzin' Fly, Domino, Pokerflat, MCDE, Dessous and Silver Network.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/6th+Borough+Project">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.