764-HERO was an indie rock band from Seattle, Washington, signed to Up Records. The band's name, suggested by a friend, is taken from the Washington State Department of Transportation phone number for reporting HOV lane violators.

Formed in 1995, the original members were singer/guitarist and Seattle native, John Atkins from Hush Harbor and drummer Polly Johnson from Bell Jar. The band released two 7" records, the full-length album Salt Sinks, Sugar Floats and the EP We’re Solids in quick succession. With just two members 764-HERO were able to create a national following with their unique sound and powerful live shows.

The two members released their debut album Salt Sinks Sugar Floats in 1996. Known locally for their powerful live preformances the duo quickly garnered a national audience. For their second full length album, Get Here And Stay, James Bertram,(Lync, Red Stars Theory) played bass guitar. The third album, Weekends of Sound (considered by many to be the band's swan song) included Bertram as well, and the band also added a keyboard player. Bertram left soon after, but was replaced by another bassist, and the band remained a four-member act.

In 1998, the band was set to perform live on the radio and thought they'd mix it up a bit. They called their old friend James Bertram from Red Stars Theory (ex-Lync and Beck) and asked him to play bass. The session went so well they decided to make it permanent. With the new line up in place they recorded "Get Here and Stay". While "Salt Sinks" was undoubtedly a great record, "Get Here and Stay" was in a whole other realm, a fully realized sound with amazing songwriting and outstanding musicianship.

After several full tours and the "Whenever You See Fit" EP with Modest Mouse, the band got to work on "Weekends of Sound". Recorded in early 2000 with Phil Ek (who also produced "Get Here and Stay" as well as most of Built to Spill's releases) the band hasn't strayed to far from the sounds of "Get Here and Stay".

Following the release of "Weekends" the band embarked on a tour of the U.S. with pals Modest Mouse. Shortly after the tour, citing creative differences, James Bertram parted ways with 764-HERO. But it didn't take long before Robin P. stepped in to strap on the four stringed beast and bring 764 back up to speed. John and Polly met Robin while he played second guitar for Modest Mouse on tour. He started as a temporary replacement so the band could tour but quickly turned into a permanent member of the band.

Around 2001, John Atkins got together with friend Joe Plummer to release songs he felt woudn't fit under the 764-Hero title, and thusly, The Magic Magicians were born. In 2001, they released their debut album "Girls".

The band moved over to Tiger Style for their latest release "Nobody Knows This is Everywhere" and they headed out on tour in March 2002.

The band broke up in 2002

The Magic Magicians have continued on, though, with the latest release being their self-titled album in 2003. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/764-HERO">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.