There are TWO bands who are called 7th Son.

1.   A six man Dub / Reggae Band from Cape Town, South Africa

Born from the womb of the Mother City, comes a band like no other, a band that defies parameters and exists on the sharp side of ‘rude, rock, reggae’. 
Formed in the summer of 2000, 7th Son quickly grew into an arsenal of acoustics and expanded their back-line with the incorporation of some of South Africa's tightest musicians into the mix. 

Current band members  are Nic Gaud on Lead Vocals and Guitar; Jed Kusow on Lead Guitar and Vocals; Miggs Auer playing Bass; Raiven Hansmann plays the Saxophone and Keyboards and  Owen Ingarfieldd is on Drums.

7th Son gained fast popularity, and it wasn't long after the release of their first entirely self-produced album, Fire in the Rain  that the band began touring the rest of the country regularly, playing at all major clubs and festivals.

Distributed and play-listed nationwide - 7th Son's second release - These Days recorded in 2006, is a five-track project that captures their unique style beautifully. Each one of the members, with their own individual influences and tendencies, will agree that the strength of the music is in their live performance. There's an unmistakable energy at every 7th Son gig that fuels fans into a frenzy. Brilliant musicianship placed within clever arrangements, makes for a captivating experience. Promoting tolerance, expression and individuality in a really cool way.

7th Son have played numerous Festivals. Headlining at Splashy Fen and the J-Bay Billabong Music Festival in 2006, as well as playing Flux Festival, Up The Creek, Insanity festival, Obs Fest, Long Street Festival, Stellies Rag Fest and Rocking the Daisies 06. 2007 saw the band returning to headline the Billabong Pro and were rated the top band at the Festival by Blunt Magazine, as well as headlining Rocking the Daisies 07, Uprising Festival, Vortex New Year festival and their first Oppikoppi. 
In 2008, the band has been back to Oppikoppi for their 2nd appearance on the main stage, and again headlined the Uprising festival in Durban, the Billabong pro in Jbay, their first ever Ramfest, and will be headlining Rocking the Daisies in October.

To date, the band has been seen or heard on/in: MTV Australia, MTV Canada, 5fm, SABC, MNET Super Sport, East coast radio, ETV, FHM, SL magazine, Blunt magazine, Salt Water girl, BPM, LMG, RSG, Good Hope fm, Tuks fm, UCT radio, MFM, Bush Radio, KFM, Levi’s Magazine, Stage magazine, Zig-Zag, as well as publications in local newspapers around the country. They have independently released and sold over 4000 cds nationwide, have recorded a music video which is currently being aired on channel MK89, and remain one of the most sort after South African bands on the internet. Over the last few years 7th Son has acquired various sponsors, which currently include Malibu, Von Zipper sunglasses and Metal Machine. 7th Son has developed an extensive fan base, reaching all parts of the world, and through the use of their website, e-mail listings, MySpace , Facebook  etc, it is making headway into Web 2.0 based technology. 
http://7thson.co.za

2.   a Metal band from Las Vegas (USA) They have just signed with roadrunner records, and will release an album soon. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/7th+Son">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.