A long ass fucking time ago in a town called Nicosia, two musically affected souls met and they immediately knew that they had chosen the right person to start with. George Zenios (DRUMM3R) and Stylianos Tsioupros (LEAD GUITARIST) had chosen their paths from a very young age and as it seems fate hasn't disappointed them yet. Back in 2002, in the early age of 10, Stylianos and Zenios had a dream. Their dream was not to become famous, and certainly they wished for other things back then. Deep in their hearts, they knew that all the energy and experience that they gained every day from guitar and drum lessons should not be wasted by any means and that music had many things to offer to them. And they were right. In March 2002 they started doing jamming sessions every weekend and as time passed they became even better and better. Influenced by bands like Metallica, Iced Earth, Nirvana etc they felt like jamming was everything for them and nothing else mattered but the sessions they had together. Of course being at that age, they never thought that they needed help with the band, for example to add more members, because the phrase "live performance" wasn't something in their dictionaries yet. Two years passed, and 2004 found Stylianos and Zenios entering High School. They still rocked hard trying to feed their hunger for music and they continued trying to use their musical knowledge of piano, guitar and drums in order to write their own songs but then, something happened. They made their first contact with the world of metal and live gigs. Immediately they knew that more people had to be found so that they could accomplish a live performance. Two more people entered the band and these were Andreas Papagavriel(BASS) and Jojo Kursaros(VOCALS/ RHYTHM GUITAR). They couldn't waste any time. They had many things to learn and one thing was how to synchronize with a group of four people. They surpassed all difficulties and after hard practice they were amazed by the difference Andreas and Jojo made in the band. Andreas had really good skills which gave a different tone and color in the band practices and Jojo had brought with him an amazing voice that took these guys into a totally different level. Now only a name had to be found. They all agreed that the band should be called DARKAGE. In 2005, they decided that they wanted to add more melody in their compositions. Therefore they invited George Symeonides(KEYBOARDIST) to enter the band as the keyboardist. George slowly became a major help to Stylianos ,who, composed the band's songs. He helped a lot with the composition of the songs and was as helpful as he could with everyone. By 2006, DARKAGE had achieved their goal. They played in as many gigs they could and they were really satisfied with themselves. Their style had changed and their skills had become tremendously better, and this was reflected back at their audience which was becoming even bigger as time passed by. However due to personality problems, Andreas Papagavriel got kicked out of the band and now a new member had to be found that would be skilled and full of energy. They all saw that in the face of Manuel Demetriades who took over as the bassist of DARKAGE. Over the next year they performed in several shows, rock nights and talent nights and every time they did so, they got tons of comments that boosted their morale even more. But then they had to face another problem. They discovered that the name DARKAGE already existed in a new upcoming metal band from GERMANY and they were very disapointed. They had to change their name but that only meant disaster for them because they worked hard to earn the reputation as DARKAGE and now most of the audience would be lost. But they couldn't do anything else. So after deep consideration of the options they had and the long search for names they ended up with the best name that sounded right the mos. They changed DARKAGE to 7th SANCTUM. Shortly after the change, 7th SANCTUM faced Manuel's unfortunate removal and had to begin the search for a new bassist. So in January 2008, Michael Theodoulides (BASS) became the new member of 7th SANCTUM. Michael is helpful and full of knowledge and has helped the band a lot. Right now, 7th SANCTUM are trying to produce their demo which they hope will bring a new meaning to melodic death metal in Cyprus and will help them bring back the audience they lost due to their unfortunate name change. Discography: "The NewBorn" (2008 Demo) Tracks Included: -Twisted Intoxication -Bring Me The End Past Concert's: 1."The Music Factory" 9/2/2008 2.2nd Festival "Η Μουσική Των Νέων" 20/6/2008 3.1st Music Festival "The New Breed Of Metal" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/7th+Sanctum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.