8 Foot Sativa Biography
Hailing from New Zealand 8 Foot Sativa are no newbies to the Heavy Metal scene. Their ferocity as a live act leaves a deep footprint where ever they tread. Formed in 1998 by guitarist Gary Smith and bass player Brent Fox,  8 Foot Sativa have survived the test of time and still to this day hold the title of the “Heavy Weights “of New Zealand Heavy Metal.

8 Foot Sativa have punished the stage with top international bands such as Pantera, Fear Factory, Korn, SOAD, Motorhead, Soulfly, Slipknot, Disturbed and Corrosion of Conformity. Their music has been featured on Monster Garage, Crusty Demons, MTV and in the movie “The Locals”.

8 Foot Sativa’s first two albums, “Hate Made Me & Season For Assault”, threw them into the spotlight by achieving gold record status in New Zealand, still a feat that has not been achieved by any other metal artist in New Zealand. Charting in the New Zealand Top 40 was the next blow to mainstream music with 8 Foot Sativa soon becoming a household name with a cult following. 

Critics said “A metal band breaking into the NZ Top 40 will never be repeated”...Wrong!

8 Foot Sativa have released their new album “The Shadow Masters” once again entering the NZ Top 40 at position number 5 and at position number 2 on the Indie charts. Globally the album has received over 60 reviews in the short time it has been out, the response has been overwhelming and 8FS have quickly followed up their album release with the first video from the new album featuring the title track “Shadow Masters”.

8 Foot Sativa are New Zealand’s hardest working and most toured act (59 Shows in 2013). A new year means new goals, 2014 kicks off with the announcement of 8 Foot Sativa playing with Megadeth, Rob Zombie & Five Finger Death Punch. March/April brings an Australian tour with the band already confirming headline slots at “Metal Fiesta 5. Adelaide” & “Metal Heart Festival. Brisbane” with 7 other Australian dates soon to be announced.

8 Foot Sativa are ready to record again and the band will be working with sound guru “Clint Murphy” but this time venturing to UK to record at Modern World studios. The band is currently piecing together touring opportunities in Europe to coincide with their recording plans.

8 Foot Sativa are a band with integrity, they are polished, professional and they deliver one hell of a live show. 
STEP UP FOR 8 FOOT SATIVA
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/8+Foot+Sativa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.