CORRUPT ABSOLUTE
www.corruptabsolute.com

(formerly known as Machine & 8mm Overdose)

With over 10 years of live shows, 4 previous CD releases, an impressive list of corporate sponsors and the distinction of being the only American heavy metal band ever to extensively tour mainland China, Corrupt Absolute continues to perform to audiences worldwide without any hint of slowing down. For years, the band has accomplished what few have done without the support of a record label. Corrupt Absolute has built on their touring musical success with unconventional methods and the use of sponsors. Since their inception in 1993 (then known as MACHINE), the band has persisted with a vengeance in maintaining their old-school roots. Critics have long hailed the band’s musical assault as a “blazing wall of sound”, mixing the simplicity and brutal riffs of the early 80’s hardcore sound with percussion and vocals of thrash metal.

Throughout the years, Corrupt Absolute has shared the stage with icons such as Sepultura, Suicidal Tendencies, Pennywise, the Deftones, Mastodon, Mortician, Flotsam & Jetsam, Misfits, Deceased and most notably with Slayer on the 2004 Jägermeister Music Tour .

While songs such as “Fister” are potentially unsettling, the honesty and real life rawness of the band and their subject matter has attracted companies such as Metal Mulisha, Transworld Productions, Board Stories, Hawaii Extreme Sports and countless other extreme sporting movies and TV shows that have also licensed the use of their music.

The bands 2006 China tour crossed 5000 miles of Mainland China. The tour was in conjunction with a Chinese punk band called ‘The Believers’ and was caught on film the by the Ali Brothers (AliFilms) for their upcoming documentary about the tour called “Open the Sky”. 2006 also included tours of Europe & the western USA. 

The bands 2007 China tour consisted of 6 Concerts in Shanghai & Beijing & climaxed at The 8th Annual Midi Modern Music Festival in Beijing. After playing their set on the Gibson Guitars sponsonsored stage at MIDI 2007, the band participated in a photo shoot at the Gibson booth and subsequently, the band’s photo was featured on the Gibson website in May ‘07 in an article about the festival.

In 2008, the band added a new member, “Wuhan Luke” & returned to China for a 7 city tour that began in Shanghai & ended in Beijing. Corrupt Absolute also shared the stage with The Misfits, Guttermouth, Hatebreed and more in ‘08. 


Current:

With the additon of “Wuhan Luke” as the band’s new drummer, 2009 will see the release of “Execution Style” the band’s third full length CD on Malt Soda Records. In conjunction with the CD release, tours of China, Japan, Europe and the Mainland USA are currently being planned. Corrupt Absolute is currently ranked #1 on the www.myspace.com (Hawaii) metal charts and holding steady.

Members:

Absolute Jack
Rob Graves
Wuhan Luke

Discography:

1996: White Knuckled Embryo (released as “Machine”) 
1998: Evil Gods (Japan only- released as “Machine”) 
2000: Harder than Hardcore (CD released as “8mm Overdose”) 
2001: Harder than Hardcore (video soundtrack released as “8mm Overdose”) 
2004: Execution Style (EP- “European Tour” pre- release as “8mm Overdose”) 
2004: Harder than Hardcore 2 (video soundtrack released as “8mm Overdose”) 
Upcoming in 2009: Execution Style (CD)

More info on the band and information on merchandise, street teams and touring may be found at www.corruptabsolute.com. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/8mm+OVERDOSE">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.