2007 is the year boredom stops, the fatigue falters, and the dullness evaporates....9 Days Down have arrived on the UK metal scene like a famously well hung stud arriving at party full of horny women. With a bang...

The band have known each other for while, having cast ebvious glances at each others projects over the last couple of years, knowing that in reality, one day, they would all come together, and so it became, so it is. This is 9 Days Down. be quiet and listen. 

Fans have absolutely loved the band through 2006 & their myspace profile is full of praise from those that have witnessed their awesome live performances & from those worldwide that have appreciated the power & honesty of the music. In only 1 year the page got 31,000 hits and the songs 8,000 plays within 3 weeks of being posted. 9DD all believe this is due to the combination of keeping a close relationship with our community & great musicianship. 

It was decided in July '06 that 9DD would start work on their Debut Album "A Sign Of Things To Come" working together with Luke Rayner of Leaf Hound on production duties. The Album sounds like, as one reviewer put it, "British Heavy Metal At Its Best" (Metal Habit). It boasts 9 blistering original tunes that deserve to be massive. 

Since wrappin the album up in January 2007, 9DD have appeared on the Total Rock Breakfast Show & have had tracks played on local radio staions & both were fantasically recieved by listeners . 

"A Sign Of Things To Come" was finally to find a home in the archives of Disclosure Records and due for release 14th July '07 at a launch party taken place in renowned venue "The Bitter End" Romford (Of who's Stage has been graced by the likes of Sikth, Sacred Mother Tongue, Lamb of God & Mummra too name but a few). Good friends & legendary PDHM were to support. 

The album is now available via www.play.com, www.amazon.co.uk, itunes, Zune and other outlets & is about ready to whip up a storm so that 9DD can give Britain the True Metal band the fans have been waiting for.

Keep an eye out for more 9DD in the Future!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/9+Days+Down">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.