Heavy Metal from Bucharest,Romania

Cosmin Aionita-Vocals
Adrian Rus-Lead Guitars,Vocals
Bogdan Mihalcea-Lead Guitars
Adrian Mihai-Drums
looking for bass player

The band's hystory

Back in 2002 Adrian Tănase introduced Adrian Rus - guitars - to Mihai (Mişu) Dumitraşcu - drums.
Emil Sestac joined the guys as bass player. Unfortunately, Adrian Tănase couldn't continue anymore and this lead to Aurelian Bãrbieru joining the band as its new lead singer.

After some heavy drinking, Mişu came up with the band's name - 9.7 RICHTER, thus putting a stop to a long brainstorming session. After a few months, Bogdan (Bobby) Mihalcea joined as a second guitarist and some cover versions of various songs were done.

After Emil left, the band's first gig found them with a new member: Razvan Tofan. After a few months, Razvan also left, and Sorin Nae came along for a few shows until they could find a stable replacement.

Besides their usual gigs, the band decided to spice up things a little bit: they put together a Black Sabbath cover night together with their old friend Adrian Tănase on vocals. Shortly, Ovidiu Cristea joined as the new bass player.

9.7 richter in garajUsing this stable line-up, the band spent a great couple of years rockin' around the country.

Unfortunately, the fall of 2006 brought 9.7 RICHTER's train to a sudden halt. Some personal matters forced Aurelian Bărbieru into leaving the band.

This time around, the guys had big problems finding a good lead singer to fill Aurelian's shoes. The gigs and demo recordings were suspended and 9.7 RICHTER's biggest challenge started - finding a reasonable voice for the band.

Meanwhile, Mişu joined the band Black Magic as their new drummer. Adrian also joined another band, Fortress of Faith, and 9.7 RICHTER's ground was left unstable for a while. Until...

...One day.
It took almost two years to find this bastard, but here he is today: Cosmin Aioniţă.
The band started the recordings of the EPICENTER E.P.

Soon after the "Epicenter" mastering was ready, the band finds trouble times again. Mihai Dumitrascu (drums) and Ovidiu Cristea (bass) are no longer part of 9.7 RICHTER.

Adrian Mihai, former Magica and Interitus Dei, joins 9.7 RICHTER on drums.

The story goes on.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/9.7+Richter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.