Since 2006, 9Horizon, the band from Rīga, Latvia, has been experimenting a lot in various heavy music directions - from fast hardcore punk and classic heavy rock to doom metal and stoner rock. This blend of music is present in album Endstartend, released in 2008, which highly marks the band’s musical thought of the first years.

As of late years, 9Horizon has chosen a completely different direction - long, slow-building compositions usually composed of only few chords with psychedelic, cyclic themes, and often utilising an avant-garde aesthetics or even free jazz. 9Horizon points out the new American wave bands like Eagle Twin, Earth, Om, and Neurosis as their influences, as well as the now classics Sonic Youth, Godspeed You! Black Emperor, and music theorists John Cage, Iannis Xenakis, and Luciano Berio by emphasizing that music cannot become only the entertainment or background element, it needs to maintain the function of a powerful irritant or even a social research. That is why 9Horizon concerts may often strongly differ from one another as an essential part in compositions is left to an improvisation thus creating each performance unique and exceptional. Music is not only performed but also created right on stage. The band is often regarded as representatives of the new stoner rock - songs are mainly about psychedelic, also drug-induced experiences; a journey experience between the visible and the imaginary.

Recently a keyboard player Marko Rass (former member of Solaris, Lassie the Cat) has joined the band  by enriching the sound performed by two guitars (Dāvis Burmeisters, Aigars Brauns), bass (Uldis Pauliņš), drums (Anrijs Korps) and vocals (Andrejs  Koļesovs).

The impressive and hypnotising 9Horizon performances need to be perceived as musical stories of a particular and given moment thus trying to break the usual structures and forms of heavy music by giving the listeners of various musical experiences the enjoyment of music.

9Horizon announced their breaking up in 2018.

Members:

Andrejs Koļesovs - vocals;
Aigars Brauns - guitar;
Dāvis Burmeisters (Tesa) - guitar;
Marko Rass (Lassie the Cat, Eschatos) - synthesizers, backing vocals;
Uldis Pauliņš - bass;
Anrijs Korps (Židrūns) - drums.

Former members:

Mikus Mekšs - vocals.

http://www.facebook.com/9horizon <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/9Horizon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.