2 Entries:

1) A Call To Arms is a 5 piece hardcore/metalcore band based out of Newtown, CT with all intentions of creating the both heaviest and most memorible sound possible. With that and a stage show that we leave everything on the stage so you all could leave it all on the dance floor, our shows are something to see.

They released an 8 song EP (A Call To Arms EP) in January 2011.  With brutal breakdowns and memorabile hooks.  You can download the entire album for free at http://acalltoarms.bandcamp.com

---

2) A Call to Arms has been a band for a couple of years, but constant member changes have hindered our musical potential. However, in March of 2008, that problem was solved by the introduction of a totally new group, giving much promise for the future. It's not about money or popularity, it's about doing what we love, in front of people who love music. Finding the right members has always been the primary struggle with this band, and now that we've found the right ones, things are starting to smooth out. We've had the opportunity to share the stage with all kinds of rad bands. In the future, we hope to continue to grow as musicans and keep bringing music to those who we love.

Each member of the band has a different musical background that we try to incorporate in each song. Our style of music has changed and progressed along the way. This is what we bring to the table: intense breakdowns, harmonizing guitars, and melodic choruses.

We are just dudes in a band, far from perfect, given the chance to play in front of amazing people. We will never preach to you, on here or anywhere at that, but the invitation is always there....This is who we are; normal, everyday guys using our talents to get connected with other people, in hopes of having that one chance to bring another person closer to God. We're about two things, and two things alone: loving God and loving people.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Call+to+Arms">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.