Hailing from Birmingham, Alabama, A Lower Deep was formed in 2001. With explosive beats, menacing yet melodic riffs, and powerful bass lines, A Lower Deep is changing the face of modern Metal music.

The band released their first full-length and self-titled demo in 2002 and with little promotion and no distribution, yielded more than 10,000 downloads and the attention of metal fans world-wide. They followed this with "Parable of the Thorn" in 2004, which showcased a more developed musical sound and again with little promotion and distribution, the band watched as tens of thousands of downloads registered worldwide along with an expanse of media attention. 2005 saw A Lower Deep featured on numerous compilations including the Progpower Festival CD and compilations from record labels and promoters. In September of the same year, the band unleashed its heaviest and most diverse album to date, "Trinity". “Black Marys” followed in 2007 and saw A Lower Deep at their most confident and skilled as a band – and saw them shoot their first video for “Black Marys”. In 2009 A Lower Deep was selected to share the stage with Evergrey, on their only US tour.

Throughout their years together, A Lower Deep has remained committed to perfecting their individual playing and honing their collective songwriting and performing craft as a band. They have also been committed to creating their own luck and spreading the word about A Lower Deep through their own promotion and distribution methods. A Lower Deep has a loyal and committed following, drawn in by the band’s sound and their heartfelt commitment to their music. Now as their fan base continues to expand, 2011 sees the band partner with Artist Development and Management Firm, The Inner Light Agency. “A Lower Deep is a rock solid metal band. These guys are committed, hardworking and most of all, talented,” says Bruce Swink of iLA. “I welcome them to the iLA fold.”  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Lower+Deep">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.