"A Prelude to Tragedy" has been around for over 11 years, only they were known as ESUCARYS. That name has been a thorn in the collective side of the core members of the band (Steve "The Rooster" Sorrell and Steve Koelling) since the bands inception. The story behind the name, Koelling's logos and the release of "Diary of a Lost Soul" made it hard to give the name up. However, since friends, family, fan club members, band members (as well as everyone who was ever told the name of the band) could not repeat it or remember how to pronounce it, it had to go. 

"It's hard to part with a band name after so many years" says Sorrell. "We've wanted to change the name for a long time, but with the new album coming out, we didn't think it'd be a good idea." But, with the release of "Shadows of the Past" being delayed for yet another calender year, the time seemed right for a change. "Our first record was released in 2001. Anyone who bought it is either still in contact with us or with one of our fans who are still around."

Sorrell and Koelling began the process of throwing around potential band names once again. "This time it's going to be between Sorrell and I only" says Koelling of the decision making process. "We've always asked for help from our wives, fans or friends in the past. That just doesn't work." 

The opening track of "Shadows..." is an instrumental tune that sets up the mood for the rest of the record. Sorrell named it "Prelude to Tragedy", a name from the sub-title of a song by H.I.M. "I Love You (Prelude to Tragedy)". Ville Valo (H.I.M.), being one of Sorrell's favorite singer/songwriters, seemed only appropriate to unwillingly name the band. Sorrell goes on, "The storyline of this record is very dark. Bad things happen to these people. There is no feel-good-ending here. It's like real life, only more entertaining. Between that and all the career-ending injuries and personal bullshit that has happened to us while making the record, the new name seems more than fitting".

"Shadows of the Past" was recorded in two studios in the north-bay area of California. Vocals, drums and keyboards were recorded in "The Dungeon" (Vacaville, CA) all guitars and bass tracks were recorded at "Casa De Gallo" (Fairifeld, CA). Steve "The Rooster" Sorrell covers lead vocals, all guitars and bass guitars. Steve Koelling plays all keyboards and covers secondary vocal duties (as well as engineering the project). Todd Frank plays all drums.

The following is the bio from the original Esucarys page:

Esucarys was formed by founding members Steve Koelling and Steve "The Rooster" Sorrell in the Spring of 1996. Koelling had written quite a bit of material from 1991 to 1995 before the duo got together, but Sorrell's influence made an immediate impact on the direction and sound of Esucarys. Although they have been called "progressive rock", they consider themselves a combination of rock, metal, alternative, and fusion...which, when all put together, makes their sound fit best in the "progressive" genre.

Esucarys' first CD "Diary of a Lost Soul" took shape during the summer of 1996 and most of 1997, when Sorrell and Koelling wrote and recorded the music in the form of rough preliminary tracks. When a long time friend of Koelling's, Paul Lamb came aboard as the producer and bassist it wasn't long before the group was booking time at a local recording studio, The Soundfarm, where, from May of 1998 to September of 1998, they would record the first half of the album.

Personal difficulties caused the band to cease recording at Soundfarm and head west "to the other side of the hill" (as Lamb would say) to finish the recording sessions at In the Pocket Studios (in Rhonert Park, CA) with engineer Gregory Halden. These sessions would stretch from the end of 1998 to late 1999, where necessary improvements and additions to the "In the Pocket" studio building once again found the band moving to yet a third studio, "Route 44" where they added the finishing touches (female vocal tracks, harmonies, moog synths, etc) and mixing the project.

By the time the material was ready for mastering, a new century was born and the year 2000 was upon us. The three members of Esucarys were starting to feel like the CD would never see it's happy ending, even though they were so close. Paul Lamb had already headed back into the studios to start the recording of his own project "The Field" for its second release, but he would somehow find the time to close the book on the "project from hell". Koelling was tempted to rename the CD "The Diary of tired souls" but refrained.

Finally in March of 2001 the CDs were printed and ready for sale. The long wait was worth it for the simple fact that the band found instant success on the internet and sold several hundred CDs around the world within the first few months. But both Sorrell and Koelling felt the "rushed" approach at throwing the CD together during the last year compromised the direction and sound they were hoping for. Although very happy with their freshman attempt and the following that the band had created, and the response they received from the live shows (especially the CD release concert held at the Fairfield Cultural Arts Center in Sept. 2001) the duo knew it was time to head in a different direction and pursue the sound they were originally hoping to achieve at the starting gate five years earlier.

With Paul Lamb pursuing his own projects, the band would go through several musicians before heading back into the recording studios to write and record the preliminary tracks to their follow up album "Shadows of the Past" in late 2003. Those tracks were almost completed by December of 2004, and the real recording began in North Bend, Oregon at ESP Studios with engineer Tony Esperance (father of Papa Roach's bassist, Tobin Esperance) with newly hired drummer Steve "Zildjian" Richardson.

The basic tracks for "Shadows of the Past" have been completed and soon Esucarys will be handing the recordings over for mix down and mastering. It has been a long road to get them to this point, but Koelling ans Sorrell feel that once this record is unleashed onto the world, it will all be worth it. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Prelude+To+Tragedy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.