Formed in the Year of 2001 A Tortured Soul began its first Breath of Molten Steel Openining up for Death Metal bands such as Userper and Putrid Pile only 13' Days after they had met.They where bound by the love of an evil craft ,and so they began challenging a dead midwestern metal market with massive halloween festivals the like as none have seen before


The band released their first CD, 2004's self released Tommorows Door, unfortunately without much fanfare as their (Now Retired) drummer wished to remain low profile and underground.

Soon the tables of fortune would smile as he was replaced by Eric Gnant and the recording of KISS OF THE THORN was complete. This was to be their Best Recording Ever as they recorded as a band should under the masterful hand of Joel Wanasek at JTW studio's.

Upon the interest of a friend from Germany, black metal giant Northern-Silence Records who had interest in the band's first release formed a new label EYES LIKE SNOW for flagship artist A TORTURED SOUL. On September the 28th- 2007

What is A Tortured Soul -A Tortured Soul is best described as an Dark Heavy metal sound with a thrash metal influence. Of course lead singer Rick Black's lyric's will always show traces of his black metal roots just as the band compositions will show their molten heavy metal core. Tandem searing guitar leads are the signature of Nate Gorenc, Ryne Schultz's lightning fast lead work. combined with, Eric Gnant's killer drumming that will pound the shit out of you every time you hear his fiery tom roll’s, crisp snare or faster than hell double bass attack, You will feel the massive tones of Stefan Bohl and his in the pocket ,deep dark and crushing bass guitar mastery . Rick Black is the vocalist who is self trained in the lost art of very, very high/low multi octave vocals the like of King Diamond and Halford with such an extreme range you must experience it to believe. the Band's History starts -a year or so back, when the band chanced upon the interest of a friend from Germany, black metal giant Northern-Silence Records who had interest in the band's first release formed a new label EYES LIKE SNOW for flagship artist A TORTURED SOUL. And KISS OF THE THORN was released to the mail order audience of the WORLD!! Like a 6000 ton ball bearing rolling off a cliff in the Alps a TORTURED SOUL s Molten Metal ATTACK will never STOP! Crushing. Killing and Destroying every soul alive or dead This band will not surrender .--And now a 2nd album has been written to surpass Kiss of the Thorn look for Lucifer's Fate set for release early 2010 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Tortured+Soul">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.