The first group of A Toys Orchestra was born in summer 1998, from the ashes of the punk-rock band named Mesulid. The band is formed by Enzo Moretto, Ilaria D'Angelis, Raffaele Benevento, Fausto Ferrara,Andrea Perillo.

After their participation in the fifth volume of the compilation Soniche avventure and the winning competition Gruppo soniche of 2000 called by Sony/Fridge Records and Rock FM radio, in June 2001, they published their first album entitled Job. The album gets an excellent agreements by the critic, carrying out the band among the promises of Italian indie rock.

After the entry of Fausto Ferrara the band leaves the most traditional indie rock and gets new influences marked by a more sophisticated use of electronics thanks to the use of samplers and drum machines as it is evident from the new compositions.

On October, 8th 2003 they take part in and win “Musical Box. Notturno Musicale Festival” presented in the famous festiva Frequenze disturbate in Urbino (Italy).

In October A Toys Orchestra take part in the Beatles' tribute promoted by Musicboom (a famous Italian magazine) still available on line.
In Autumn 2003 the band leaves Fridge Records and joins Urtovox, starting the new album which was recorded and mixed in alpha studios dept. by the skilled Giacomo Fiorenza and with the artistic production of Paolo Naselli Flores.

The release Cuckoo Boohoo is published in the first half of October 2004 and it was cheered unanimously as one of the most beautiful album of the season 2005/2006, getting a very favourable press review thank also to the successful video clip of Peter Pan Syndrome, written and directed by talented video maker Fabio Luongo.
The clip, besides the programming of MTV, All Music TV, RockTV, RAISAT-Extra and Match Music TV, is awarded two prizes in a famous Fandango-sponsored festival.

Besides the clip was inserted among the first ten clip in 2004 in the yearly hit parade organized by Musica di Repubblica, it wins MEI Clip Summer 2005,granted by CAPALBIO FILM FESTIVAL and it was selected in the INTERNATIONAL SHORT FILM EXIBITION in Montecatini (italy) and in the short film O’Curt review by Santa Sofia Mediateca in Naples (Italy).

At the beginning of 2005 there is a change of line up and the drummer Fabrizio Verta leaves and he is replaced by the young and talented Andrea Perillo.
A wide series of reviews, interviews, radio and TV apparitions together with a continuous and qualified concerts activity in the best rock club and Italian summer festival (over 160 live gigs in the 2005/06 season) are making the band a real hope in the contemporary Italian musical panorama and they are ready to win comparison with the European and international market.

Dustin O’Halloran helped producing the latest album Technicolor Dreams. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Toys+Orchestra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.