In the late summer of 2005, A Trail Of Horror rose to its feet. Originally created by Bart & C.. (ex members of Earection, Time Out RIP), They went looking for fresh meat to complete their lineup. Levy joined the bunch to play the drums and Sebbe joined for vocals. The search for a second guitar player ended with Robin, who also had experience in other bands ( Fuzzgun, Reign Of Terror RIP). After a while we agreed on the fact to bring in Stephane ( Youth Enrage RIP) as a second vocalist to bring some new dimensions into our sound. Having rehearsed for a month or three, we lost our rehearsal place due to some bumps in the road. However, the drive in the band was strong enough to hold on, and so we decided we would hit the studio (Noisegate) where we recorded our five track demo. We released our material in a split CD along with The End Of All Reason. After having played some shows, Sebbe decided to quit the band due to some personal reasons. We’d like to thank him for the great moments and his dedication. We are influenced by a lot of bands a lot of the time, and so we try to make some unique, monsterous metalcore, with horrifying mosh riffs. In the late spring of 2006 we found a spankin’ new rehearsal place, and decided to pick up the place a bit. Our music has quite evolved since the recording of our demo. We recently hit the studio again (studio LeMith) to record our new EP, which is available at our shows. We are always in search of some hot shows, so if you’re interested, book us right away. And last but not least, we would like to take the time to thank all of the fans, the people who book our shows, and the other bands we share the stage with. Without you we would still be playing in an empty garage. We are A Trail Of Horror.

A Trail of Horror signed to Swedish label Dead Vibrations Industry in January 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Trail+Of+Horror">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.