A Trillion Barnacle Lapse was a post-hardcore band based out of Providence, Rhode Island. Original members, Michael Lamantia Jr., Anthony Ferreira, Alexander Laorenza, and Jonathan Santoro, first began playing as sophomores in high school under the name Tomorrow’s Will, finding an audience in the local hardcore scene. As their sound and influences evolved, so did their name, and A Trillion Barnacle Lapse was unveiled in 1999 with a self-released four song 7” titled The Target With Plastic Casts. As the record circulated with a steady string of East Coast shows and hype on burgeoning internet blogs, the band was offered it’s first official release, a split 7” with Massachusetts based band The Last Forty Seconds on Pretty In Pink Records. The three songs contributed to this release highlighted a distinct synthesizer induced post-hardcore sound, which would mark a drastic stylistic shift. During this era, another three tracks were recorded for a split 7” slated with As The Sun Sets (later known as Daughters), but this release never materialized.

From 1999-2001 the band gigged and toured on this material, steadily gaining notoriety along the way for their intense, flamboyant performances.  Upon returning from their first US tour, the band recorded The Elemental Gearbot, signing on with Level Plane Records. Considered the “classic” A Trillion Barnacle Lapse record, the band received a near flawless rating in a 2002 issue of Alternative Press. This release saw an evolution from the manic flux of their early work, to a focused sound grounded in driving guitars, layered synths, drum programming, and ominous vocals. An eight song LP followed in 2003, entitled Black Lava, which was released by Sound Virus Records, home to The Blood Brothers, Death From Above 1979, and Pretty Girls Make Graves. This release garnered a rave review by the then up and coming Pitchfork Media, spawned more internet and street hype, and saw the band playing frequently in the then thriving Providence art-warehouse scene.

Following this release, line up changes saw vocalist, Santoro, and Black Lava era bassist, Eric McNeil, departing from the band. A Trillion Barnacle Lapse continued on with Laorenza on vocals, Ferreira and Lamantia Jr. wielding more synth and electronics, and Ronald Webster Jr. on bass. It was under this line-up that the band recorded it’s third full-length, A Cruise In Heaven, released by Electric Human Project in 2004. It was during this era that the band opened for buzz worthy acts like Enon, 90 Day Men, Les Savy Fav, and Chromeo. Eventually Ferreira departed the band to form dance/noise outfit Honeyhander, while the remaining members wrote and recorded a fourth LP entitled Nut Royalty, which was never released. Laorenza and Lamantia Jr. moved to Los Angeles and New York respectively, and eventually reunited to form electronic rock outfit MakeupBreakup. 

Fifteen years since A Trillion Barnacle Lapse was conceived, their body of work is as innovative and emotive as ever. It is with great pleasure that the band is releasing their retrospective, Selective Memory, on 07/29/2014. This collection includes select tracks from the band’s LPs, along with unreleased/rare material, and their early 7” recordings in their entirety.  Selective Memory will be released on Lamantia Jr’s imprint, Casino Dreams Records, and will be available in digital format from a variety of online retailers and streaming services. There will also be a limited Pro Cassette pressing of Selective Memory courtesy of Off Cloud Nine Label. To contact A Trillion Barnacle Lapse, please send an email to: atrillionbarnaclelapse2014@gmail.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Trillion+Barnacle+Lapse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.