Welcome Philadelphia’s newest addition to metal, A Well Thought Tragedy. They are the latest addition to the list of crushing metal acts to come from the city of brotherly love; a city that has spawned such metal juggernaughts as Lamb of God, A Life Once Lost, and All Else Failed. While combining elements from all over the musical spectrum, the band still stays true to their metal roots. Creating a metallic hardcore sound that is pulverizing as well as diverse. Having shared the stage with acts such as A Life Once Lost, A Day to Remember, Turmoil, One Dead Three Wounded, Emmure, Full Blown Chaos, August Burns Red, The Minor Times, With Blood Comes Cleansing, Impending Doom, Whitechapel, and Imperial, A Well Thought Tragedy are quickly on their way to joining the metal ranks. 

Formed back in 2004, the band has seen a number of lineup changes and setbacks. Original members John Parker (Drums) and Jay (Bass) comprise the backbone and driving force of the group. Shortly later, the duo added Chris Jones (Guitar). His creativity and skill propelled the group’s songwriting capabilities even further.  Friend Max (Vocals) was soon added to the lineup and provided an intensity they had never seen before. Thus the search was on for a second guitarist. After several candidates and numerous tryouts, the group finally found their missing link in the summer of 2007. They found it in friend, and former Evidence guitarist, Shaun Nelson. 

In January of 2007 the group traveled to Burning Bridge Recordings in Indiana to record their debut full length for Creep/Blackout Records entitled “The Persona.” To assist in capturing their efforts the group enlisted the help of producer/engineer Joel Lauver (Haste The Day, Job For A Cowboy). Joel’s creativity complimented the group’s work ethic and passion and together they crafted a debut that is powerful and heavy, but yet diverse and melodic. After three weeks of hard work, late nights, and sleeping in their van in the middle of winter, the group finished their debut and now ready to release it to the masses. The band will be on the road all of 2007/2008, bringing their own brand of metallic hardcore to a city near you. And look out for A Well Thought Tragedy’s Creep/Blackout Records debut, “The Persona,” in stores everywhere this October.

www.myspace.com/awellthoughttragedy
www.purevolume.com/awellthoughttragedy
http://awttmerch.bigcartel.com
www.creeprecords.com
www.myspace.com/creeprecords <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Well+Thought+Tragedy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.