A WINTER WITHIN performs Norwegian Metal; the music being very dynamic - with themes swiftly changing from the Melodic and Aggressive to Black Metal styles. Many of the elements throughout the tracks are based upon guitar/synth riffs, although the synthesiser is only implemented as an effect to complement the bands existing sound. The band has however begun working towards more extreme and faster passages, but with this in mind the songs will never lose their melodic qualities - the essence of A WINTER WITHIN. Most songs are composed by Sanzia and Laeturnus, dramatized through lyrics by S. Winter and Laeturnus.

A WINTER WITHIN was formed in March -98 in Stavanger, Norway. The founder, and drummer of the band, S. Winter, contacted several friends asking them to join him - but settled with a female singer and and a guitar player. This line-up lasted no longer than short of one month. From here and throughout the following six months A WINTER WITHIN experienced the turbulence of a lot of musicians joining and leaving the band in rapid succession. At one point there were six musicians involved, but in the end three of them left due to musical differences and lack of interest.

During this six month period both Laeturnus and Sanzia were introduced to the band. Laeturnus entered A WINTER WITHIN June -98, and has since then been the band’s bass player and one of the more influential elements in the band. Then in the autumn the same year A WINTER WITHIN came in contact with guitarist Sanzia. He was tried out at rehearsals, and shortly after accepted as a full member of the band.

Until the summer of -99 A WINTER WITHIN suffered under the toll of not having a steady singer As a result of this they were approached by Morloc (who also plays for Myriads), offering himself to do the vocals. After not long he joined the band as a session vocalist/synth player.

In the summer months of 2000, the band acquired yet another addition Danish guitarist F. Conquer. After a few rehearsals it became obvious that F. Conquer was able to act out the role as rhythm- guitarist for A WINTER WITHIN, thus being accepted as a full time member.

Thoughts about a live session synth player had been under considerations for a longer period due to the limitedness of Morloc's movements on stage with both singing and playing synth at the same time. After trying out a couple of possible candidates for the job the pendulum finally stopped on British born Dominy, which from now on will join A WINTER WITHIN live on synth. On the verge of fall 2000 the band is now entering a new era with a new line-up ready to conquer the new millennium...

In September -99 A WINTER WITHIN released the first demo called "Frostbitten". It was recorded as a rehearsal demo, but with better sound quality than expected. Then in December -99/February 2000 A WINTER WITHIN once again entered a studio to record the second release. It was released September 20th. 2000.

As of August 2000 the band consists of S.Winter, Laeturnus, Sanzia, F.Conquer, Morloc and Dominy (live session synth). Presently a five piece group with members at the age of 22-28, A WINTER WITHIN wanders between the shadows of melodic themes and agressive passages; taking on the legacy of the Norwegian metal scene... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A+Winter+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.