A progressive metal band from U.S.A. 

www.facebook.com/awakemetal                     ( "like" them on Facebook)
www.reverbnation.com/awakemetal


Portland, Oregon’s A((wake)) is a progressive hard rock band making waves across the Pacific Northwest. Originally formed as a three piece instrumental post-rock group, Cameron Taylor, Ian Engblom and Brian Lawson recorded what would be A((wake))’s first demo. Embracing the influential styles of bands like Isis and Mastodon, “The Crescent” EP was released in 2005 and was immediately followed by nu...merous live performances throughout the I-5 corridor. Their energetic live show, coupled with the trio’s dynamic and hard hitting sound, quickly gained them momentum in the Northwest music scene.
Following the success of “The Crescent”, A((wake)) released “Northern Lights” in late 2007. The threesome’s second EP showcased a more aggressive and complete sound that was well received by fans and music critics alike. The release was supported by more live performances throughout the Northwest, local radio airplay and expansion of the band’s reach overseas. “Northern Lights” would ultimately signal the end of the band’s instrumental identity, as vocalist and keyboardist Ben Jackson joined A((wake)) in 2009.
With his vocal influences rooted in the echoes of Mike Patton, Tom Waits, Layne Staley and Frank Black, the addition of Jackson to the group’s ranks brought an influx of creativity and originality that shaped the band’s new character. The eclectic mix of Jackson’s vocal styles, combined with his cerebral lyrics, gave the lineup the final piece needed to form the group’s current energizing and refreshing style.
Now, A((wake)) has released their first full length album with Jackson at the helm. Self-produced with longtime friend and engineer Jeanot Lewis-Rolland, the band's self-titled debut is a concept record which blends diverse guitar work, percussion, and soaring vocals into a contiguous set of rock movements which are sure to make rock listeners beg (and weep) for more. Covering such themes as the struggles of self-identity, navigation through an estranged modern world and the links formed between humans and their environment, A((wake))’s new album will continue to fuel the band’s momentum and drive them to the crest of the Northwest rock scene. 


Members:
Ian Engblom - Bass 
Brian Lawson - Drums 
Cameron Taylor- Guitar 
Ben Jackson - Vocals/Synth

Albums:

The Crescent (2006)
Northern Lights (2008)
A((wake)) (2011)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A((wake))">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.