Biography
The 26 year old Pittsburg (Cali not Pennsylvania) native known as A-Wax grew up like most youngsters in the hood, playing sports, video games and listening to their favorite rappers. As the years went by though the small San Francisco suburb of Pittsburg became plagued with the same problems of any other major city. Drive-bys and drug deals replaced football games, and school dances. As the impressionable A-Wax became infatuated with the street life and started having run ins with the law, he was sent to Seattle to shape up his act…this would forever change his life.

While the Bay Area pretty much missed the migration from L.A. of Crips and Bloods in the 1980’s, Seattle, Washington was hit hard. Control of the turfs and the city’s fast growing drug trade was the #1 priority of the Bloods and Crips and recruitment was at an all time high. A-Wax was drawn into the gang lifestyle immediately and pledged his allegiance to the Elm Street Piru’s an infamous Blood set in the Pacific Northwest and sworn enemies of the Crips, the nation’s largest gang. As A-Wax’s life was consumed by gang warfare a fateful night in Tacoma, WA would land him in Walla Walla State Prison for five years for manslaughter. At 16 years old, A-Wax went from street thug to convict and there was no turning back.

Embracing the prison life was easy for A-Wax and the love and respect he earned from his gang homies for “puttin’ in work” in the streets made his time easier. A little over half way through his prison bid, A-Wax started writing raps and had dreams of recording an album when he got out.

When A-Wax hit the streets in 2001, he moved back to Pittsburg and recorded and released his debut album Savage Timez. His smooth delivery combined with his raspy voice and realistic tales of street and prison life made A-Wax an instant underground hit in the Bay Area. Critical acclaim came easy but commercial success and a major record deal would continue to elude him. His no nonsense demeanor and street ethics have slowed his ascension to the top but as A-Wax says “they (the majors) will come around when they see I don’t waiver on my belief’s and everything I spit is real, I mean the streets love me so the radio is next, I promise!”

Wax has recorded four solo albums including his latest album “Thug Deluxe” featuring Dr. Dre’s protégé and G-Unit member The Game is an underground favorite in the streets and clubs of the West Coast.. He has also appeared on over 80 albums and compilations to date but his greatest accomplishment yet was when he received an RIAA Gold Certification Award for his stellar guest appearance on Latin rap sensations Baby Bash’s “Smokin’ Nephew” album.

What started as little more than a hobby to pass time while he was locked up became a full-time career for this gang banger turned MC. A-Wax is the next in line for the crown for the West Coast…period, point blank the end…and he’s coming for your head!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A-Wax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.