Anthony DeMore was the founder and lead vocalist of the hip-hop, metal band "AD".
With lyrics driven by socio-politically and environmentally charged themes, the band
found a new level of heaviness when David Tarica was added in 1989. With Tarica's
monster guitar riffs and DeMore's potent raps, the band quickly became a Bard
favorite. After graduation, the AD lineup changed and they moved to New York
City securing a record deal with Rage Records. They toured all over Europe and
recorded two CD’s before splitting up in the late 90s.

Anthony DeMore (Vocals)
David Tarcia (Guitar)
Aaron Keane (Bass)
Mervin Clark (Drums)
Melvin Gibbs (Producer)

Supplement Statement: of Discogs Member DJ_Phoney ::: A forgotten gem, this album delievers one of the best guitar-rocking approaches on Hip Hop ever (in my opinion). Subtle instead of the usual crossover.
Thoughtful lyrics with a fantastic flow, a grooving bass (from slapping to grooving chords and slides), a drummer with some real swing and a guitarist that definitely doesn't get on your nerves (no mass of effects like Tom Morello of Rage Against The Machine used for example). Not just endless semitone-riffs but a good mixture of those and real harmonies.
One of the very few bands that really managed to play Hip Hop live as a band and I even liked their approach better than The Roots (which again is totally subjective of course) on one and Rage Against The Machine on the other hand.
Sometimes you might even forget you're listening to the sound of guitars. The production serves the purpose 100%. It sounds live like a rock-band but still manages to groove like black music should. Two black guys, two white – right in the middle of white and black music but with a bit more tendency to the black side.
Anthony DeMore as an MC comes across very unique (for those who need comparisons: the most thoughtful Daelek, a softer Chuck D, a less abstract Saul Williams - something inbetween maybe). Political lyrics with lines like: "They call it democracy - I call it lies."
There’s also a pure acapella-track called “Hope” that’s quite impressive.
Actually the album sounds like sort of the intelligent essence of Metal and the subtle undertones of Hardcore-Punk giving hand to Golden Era-Hip Hop.
A-D managed to sound rebellious and adult at once.
I can still listen to the whole album without getting bored. There's honestly no fillers.

The album by the way was edited by avantgarde musician Elliott Sharp.
A-D did one more album and then split up. DeMore reappeared in 2002 on the Slovo-album “Nommo” on a couple of tracks. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A.D">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.