There are seven bands called A.I.D.S.

#1:

A.I.D.S. is a black metal band from Indiana, US in 2004. The only member in the band is Tophetarath known from other bands like Fog, Nokturnel and Hordes of the Lunar Eclipse. A.I.D.S.' lyrics are about the holocaust, they have released 1 album called "Syndrome of the End Approaching" and they're Currently working on a split with EMK

#2:

Name : Helius Zhamiq  aka KORRIGAN aka A.I.D.S.aka 
Wyplash aka  Bottlegrin aka S.I.H. aka Harl’M Rakai
Members : K.BAL (Since 1996, Founder), ARTSKORPS (Since
 1999, Founder).
In group/Band : Malaria (with Fist Of Fury), Labitox 
(with La Peste), Les tontons Flingueurs (with Axiom),
S.L.K. (with Olive), Antgrist (with Frd NoTek, Air 
Frantz), Krackbrain (Metal band).
Music : Mix and Live Act HardCore, Speedcore, Breakcore,
HardBreak, Drum'nBass, Techno, Ambient,
also Thrash, Metal, Grindcore guitarist and keyboard.
Description :  Helius ZHAMIQ is a multidisciplinary 
artist : musician, composer, DJ, producer, night events
organizer, graphic designer and plastician (he made 
architectural studies). On the behalf of various 
mysterious pseudonyms, HZ is an artist with various 
musical faces trying to go to the extreme limits of the
actual music through many artistic approaches as well as
technical and technological. Combination of calm
and violence, celestial and aquatic, mixing classical 
and very modern sonorousness, this “sound’s Machiavel”
with a disconcerting facility, invite all the curious 
people on the music gateway  of the “electronica 
incognita”.
HZ cannot be classified in any contemporary musical area
because he is performing in different and strange
universes according to his personal feelings. He’ll be 
very pleased to share his musical world with anyone…
From 1988 to 1993 he performed as a guitarist/keyboard 
player in various metal and experimental band
particularly working with Fist of Fury, drummer of 
Spectral Presence with whom he created MALARIA,
Arnaud Rebotini who was at that time the singer of 
Swamp, O’Live, Karkkbrain drummer with whom he
worked on the jungle’s project.S.L.K. (Sun Loop King).
Discovering Liza’n Eliaz at the end of 92, this musical
revelation lead him to the turntables and the
fascinating world of the experimental techno hardcore. 
In 94 he started composing music on hardware with
his old pal Fist of  Fury and then alone in 95. 
In 1996, he is cooperating with the K-BAL Hardcore Sound
System to organize Hardcore/Speedcore night
events under two labels Knibal Rcds and Knabeast Rcds.
Since then HZ is working on organizing night events with
the K-BAL Hardcore Sound System, The Knibal and
Knabeast productions along with the graphic creations, 
Live animations (A.I.D.S. : Annihilation In Decadent
System), DJ  sets for night events and free parties 
(Helius Zhamiq with 3 turntables minimum): Techno,
Jungle/Drum & Bass,  Hardcore/Speedcore, and 
experimental ambiance, many projects (see list up),
 musical creation for theatre plays and street shows 
(particularly for the Show “SHAM remix the book
l’Etranger de  Camus” where HZ plays in live) and also
puppets shows (specially the children play “the big
potatoe diary”).
Discography : K01, K06, K10 on KXX , AK01, AK02 on AKHA 
, H01 on HASCH LIQUIDE , ST1 on Stryktniks
, KNAB01 on KNaBeasT , KNB01, KNB02, KNB05, KNB08, 
KNBtape01, KNBCD01 on KNiBAL ,HL06 ,
HL16, on Hangars Liquides, Crashtest02 on Crashtest, 
B2K07 on B2K Rcds, MT01 on MaroTrumm,
LBT 01 on Labitox, DEST 05 on Destruction Rcds, FKF04 
on Freekorifik Rcds, Antgrist 01 on KBal Rcds.


#3 

Australian hardcore punk band from Perth, Western Australia. Broke up and members went on to: The collapse, Jaws, and Extortion.
Also know as ALL IN DEEP SHIT


#4

A Dutch funband, who make all kinds of music (Black Metal, emo, nu-metal, rap and more..), with the intention to show how easy it is to create music. Even if you have absolutely no talent at all :)
They are currently (well, since the end of 2005) working on their first album, called "Rode Rozen en Soa's", which will hopefully be released some day.

A.I.D.S. consists of 3 artists (and a couple of guest artists):
- Taco (vocals, recording, producer, "nerd")
- Smut (vocals, guitars, bass, drumcomputer, "know-it-all")
- No Remorse (vocals, lyrics, "the fat guy")

Also known as Agressive Impulsive Destructive Sound.

#5
A.i.d.S, Alles ist die Sekte, is a Hip-hop group from Berlin, comprised of the two rappers Sido and B-Tight. The group was formed in 1997 under the name RoyalTS. After several releases through the Royal Bunker label, they moved to Aggro Berlin. They did support gigs for U.S. Hip-hop groups The Hieroglyphics and The Arsonists. Today A.i.d.S. formes the core of Die Sekte. Sido and B-Tight are now better known for their solo albums; Sido's Maske was one of the most successful German hip hop releases in 2004.

#6
A.I.D.S. (Altid Irrelevante Danske Sange) is a danish Thrash/punk band from Bælum. 
They released one EP in 2007, De Lokale Helte, and disband short after.  

#7 
A.I.D.S. was a hardcore punk band from Worcester, Massachuesetts. They released one 4-track demo and disbanded shortly after. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/A.i.d.S.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.