Some of the themes in Aarni's music may include: Balancing your ancestral path with the positive sides of modern technology & cultural redesign; magick, occultism, esoterica and world mythologies, brain-change, Discordianism, Satanism/Setianism, collective & personal liberation, transhumanism and theories of analytical psychology (especially those of C.G. Jung); the Cthulhu mythos as described by H.P. Lovecraft and fellow authors; plus divers more obscure topics.

Aarni's superintelligent lyrics take form in the language believed most suitable for the song's subject: usually in English, Classical Latin or Finnish and occasionally in French, Ancient Egyptian, Hebrew, German, Enochian, Glossolalic, Ouranian-Barbaric et cetera.

Aarni has of course always existed, but the current incarnation's story began in the autumn of 1998 ev, when M.路.M.路. suddenly began solitarily developing his vague musical ideas further. He got telepathetic messages from the unicorn dolphin elder of Sirius B, who begged M.路.M.路. to reawaken the ancient Xothian aural technology tradition called aarni. Soon after choosing to comply with the demands of these psychotic transmissions,  Comte de Saint-Germain appeared to him and immediately joined Aarni. When the two gentlemen conducted an unsuccessful necromantic ritual at Moominpappa's cenotaph, a third member's addition to the band took place: Doomintroll. Simultaneously the first letter of Mahatma M's surname semi-accidentally flipped over completing his mutation into Master Warjomaa.

The fourth band member does not really act as a "proper" musician, but seems nonetheless to partake in Aarni's creative processes. For Mistress Palm seems in fact composed entirely of artificial, phlogiston-driven rectoplasm and due to her apparently incorporeal nature can only exist on a computer's hard disk.

Now work nears completion on Aarni's third studio album aka 'Lovecraftian'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aarni">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.