AB:NORM founded in 1997 by Gianni Cutrona (drums), Martin Weissenberger (guitars) and Michael Heinrich (bass) and the line-up was completed some months later by Felix Stass (vocals).

The self-produced album “Inside” was recorded in 2000 and released by the label “Show No Mercy Records” limited to 1000 copies. After a short period it was made available for download for free due to promotional purpose and found great approval by fans and interested listeners around the world and till the present day “Inside” was downloaded more than 10.000times.

In 2001 a live-videoclip of the song “Upstairs” was professionally made by Jimmitex with state of the art cutting.

In the period between 2001 and 2004 the band worked on their live-performance and made themselves a name in their area and in a wider range. In 2003 a dedicated second guitarist was found in Tobias Drabold who provides the band with own ideas and his potential capacity since that day.

End of 2004 singer Felix Stass started to search for an equal representation on the mic because it came in sight that he wouldn´t be able to play some AB:NORM gigs due to the activities of his other band. This representation was found in Claus “Clausi” Oehler, shouter of the German grindcore cult band Blood.

As the result of a spontaneous idea AB:NORM performs with both chummy singers in duet since a legendary gig in Ludwigshafen in the same year. Musical perfection met two funny and energetic powerpacks to sweep the audience off their feet.

In 2005 the band entered the PMT-Studios of producer Tik to write a couple of new songs and the idea of a concept-album was born which musically and lyrically separates them from other bands in the genre. An album called “Eugenic”, spreading a dark psychedelic mood in a kind of Science-Fiction story about the abuse of genetic research with a touch of world conspiracy theories.

But the realization of the entire album need a further level of musical development and so the work on “Eugenic” laid on ice in 2007 and the band concentrated their work on a three track EP called “Seed” which was recorded in 2008 to show everyone AB:NORM is still alive and keeps on working and to hopefully get in contact to some record labels.

Felix Stass is not represented on the “Seed” recordings. He is involved into his other band and his work as a cook that much that he has no more time to work with AB:NORM. He left the band in July 2008 but it could be that he will do some gigs together with AB:NORM in the future.

Again AB:NORM adheres to the idea to make the “Seed”-EP available for free download for all fans and interested people due to the promotional purpose of these tracks.

AB:NORM is searching for a label to unleash “Eugenic” to the masses and is further ready to hit the bigger stages in the genre.

Line-Up:
Claus "Clausi" Oehler (vocals)
Martin Weissenberger (guitar)
Tobias Drabold (guitar)
Michael Heinrich (bass)
Gianni Cutrona (drums)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ab:Norm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.