Abel Miller is a young UK R&B singer/songwriter born February 19th 1991. He has been singing and performing at church and school concerts from a very young age and in March 2006 he played the part as Miss Ivy’s son in the play ‘The Harder they come’ at the Theatre Royal Stratford East.

In 2008, Abel and his three sisters were competitors on the X-factor under the name of ‘4Instinct’. The family group impressed Simon Cowell with their talent and reached as far as the ‘judge’s houses’ as one of the final six groups where they performed in front of Louis Walsh.

Abel’s passion has always been in music and he went on to further education and obtained a BTEC National Diploma in Music Technology. He built a small studio at home where he has been developing his producing and song writing skills. From his home studio he has produced such tracks as ‘Give me a chance’, ‘Bring me down’ in collaboration with Grime artist Scrufizzer and he covered Miguel’s single ‘All I Want Is You’ along with rapper Young Az.

Abel has now launched his solo career managed by London Boy Entertainment (L.B.E), where his managers are Shabz and Barry. Shabz is also signed to Roc Nation as a producer under the name ‘Music Kids.’ L.B.E also has rapper K.Koke and Maxsta, plus other artists under their belts. He has collaborated with K.Koke on his mixtape ‘Pure Koke vol.2’. The song is entitled ‘Nobody but us’.

Abel’s vocals are described as soulful, smooth and mesmerising and he has been vocally compared with artists such as Chris Brown and Trey Songz. He feels that the UK R&B artists are not getting enough recognition and his aim is to fill the gap for real quality R&B music from the UK. He is now looking to collaborate with some of the hottest producers and superstars in the UK and create great music. A record deal is on the cards an <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abel+Miller">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.