From famed surf/skate small town of Santa Cruz, CA, Abhorrance bring a fury of music that is anything but sunshine. The band creates blistering fast Thrash Metal music, intricately blended with the heaviness of Hardcore, and occasionally a hint of 90s Skate Punk. The music never lets you down with boring slow-tempo filler songs; but instead is laden with quick and precise riffs, accompanied by flaming solos. The vocals defy the standard hardcore monotone, by ranging from blood-curdling highs, to chest-heaving mids, and occasional growling lows. Influences are broad, ranging from the classics such as Pantera, Slayer, Converge, and Good Riddance, to currents such as The Haunted, Arch Enemy, Himsa, Unearth, and The Dillinger Escape Plan, just to name a few.
    The band was formed by Vocalist/Guitarist, Brandon Fitzgerald, and Guitarist Patrick Diola. The two have been playing music together since they first picked up an instrument ten years ago. Abhorrance recorded and released the debut EP entitled Lowering The Spirits of a Narcissistic Superhero on indie label Unfun Records in 2002. The band succeeded the release with three U.S. tours, including a six week trip covering nearly 40 states with label mates Stalins War. Following the tours, Abhorrance lost their drummer, and took a few members to find a solid replacement, including drummer of Animosity (Black Market), ending with Pat..s younger brother, Evan, drummer of The Taste Of Blood (Tribunal).
    After a period of turmoil, the band re-solidified stronger than ever before, producing a more mature and powerful recipe of aggressive music. Abhorrance released a self-produced 5-track promo CD in late 2004. In April of 2005, the band recorded 12 flesh-searing songs. The initial pressing has a street date of December 6th, 2005. The new album, entitled The Right Disease is a proud accomplishment, surpassing the former EP by miles. The music is far more intricate and controlled than ever before. And in an era with such political unrest, the band has been extremely fueled with lash-out inspiration.


www.myspace.com/abhorrance   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abhorrance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.