There are three bands of the same name.

1: Abhorrence, Finnish death metal band (1989-)
Originally formed in 1989, which disbanded after just one year in 1990. They released their famous "Vulgar Necrolatry" demo tape, that was in heavy circulation in the underground tape trading scene. The demo was followed by a self-titled EP, which was released by Seraphic Decay records, label which was infamous for ripping off the bands whose music they released. 
In 2012 Svart Records released Completely Vulgar, a compilation album (CD/2LP) with both the demo and EP with enhanced sound quality and additional low grade rehearsal and live material as bonuses. The band briefly reunited for a few reunion gigs in 2013, including a performances at Tuska Open Air Metal Festival and Hammer Open Air Metal Festival. 
The band forgot to disband and after Waltteri Väyrynen joined as the new drummer in 2016, the band activated properly. They recorded new tracks in 2018, which were released as Megalohydrothalassophobic EP. 

The band features guitarist Tomi Koivusaariwho is one of the founding members of Amorphis.

2: Abhorrence, Slovakian hardcore band.

3: Abhorrence, Brazilian Death Metal Band (1997-)

Abhorrence comes from Brazil. In late 1990 when guitarist Kleber Varnier met banger Rangel Arroyo.
Together, they begun testing their ideas, they formed a group with all the experience that they had gathered, that would later become the band Abhorrence (BR).
At first playing some covers and writing their own track that were recorded on tapes K7.
In 1995 that Rangel Arroyo (guitar), his brother Fernando Arroyo (Drums) and a friend named Alessandro Almeida (guitar) started writing death metal.
Alessandro Almeida (guitar) left the band early, in april 1996 they found Gustavo Lamabari (vocals and guitar) and soon Kleber Varnier was invited to join as a bassist.

Original line up was: Fernando Arroyo (drums), Kleber Varnier (bass, manager) and Rangel Arroyo (guitar, vocals), which released the following records:

Ascension, K7 independent demo (1997), CD Wild Rags Rec. (1998)
Mayhemic Intense Alive, Cursed Leprosy Rec. (1998)
Triumph in Blasphemy, K7 independent demo (1999)
Evoking the Abomination, Rec Evil Vengeance Rec. (2000) & Listenable Rec. (2001)
Mayhemic + Heritage, Cursed Leprosy Rec. (2005) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abhorrence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.