There are currently 5 Artists under the name Abigail.  A Japanese black/thrash metal band,  a Polish heavy/power/melodic metal band, Abigail Zsiga , an English/Australian actress who released one album in 1974, and a Czech alternative rock band.

Abigail (Japan):

Abigail was formed in January of 1992 by Yasuyuki (Bass/Vocal), Youhei (Drums) and Yasunori (Guitar) being inspired by early black/thrash metal bands like Bathory, Venom, Sodom, Bulldozer, Hellhammer, NME etc. The first demo "Abigail Demo #1 '92" was released in July of 1992 and in August of the same year they played their first gig with Sigh.

In February of 1993, Youhei and Yasunori left the band. Nevertheless the 2nd demo "Blasphemy Night" was released in March.
In August of 1993, 7' EP "Descending from a black end sky" was recorded by only Yasuyuki. This EP, limited to 500 copies, was released on H.S.B. Records in Holland and was sold out in 1994.

In June of 1995 Warmaster Records in Colombia released a 700-copy-limited split CD with Funeral Winds, which was again recorded by only Yasuyuki. Yasunori and Youhei came back to the band in February of 1995 and recorded "Promo '95", which was released on 7' EP by Of Gods Disgrace Productions in Canada in March of 1996.
They now have signed to Australian Modern Invasion Music for three albums and the début album 'Intercourse and Lust' is already out. 

Later releases include "Forever Street Metal Bitch" (featuring guest appearances by Mirai and Shinichi of Sigh), "Fucking Louder Than Hell," "Ultimate Unholy Death," and a series of tributes, live & split albums. 


---



Abigail (Pol)

A heavy metal band from Poland, the website for which can be found at http://www.abigail.metal.pl/.

---

Abigail Zsiga:

Abigail Zsiga used to get into trouble for sneaking vinyl out of her father's record collection. While her classmates were busy listening to Wham and Madonna, Abigail was educating herself with Carole King, James Taylor, Squeeze and Supertramp. While only 8 years old Abigail was asked to perform at her school's parent night. The connection she felt that night with her audience was so great that she realized her future could only be that of a singer and a songwriter – communicating her life through music and song.

Trained as a classical vocalist, she later began to experiment with other styles of music, seeking new opportunities while exploring and developing the deep, rich quality and texture that defines and distinguishes her voice. While still a teenager Abigail had her first chart success as a featured vocalist for the UK trance outfit, "The Love Decade". She then teamed up with British producer Ian Anthony Stephens and together they recorded her first full-length album which earned her awards for Best Album, Best Female Vocalist and Best New Artist.

Having achieved extraordinary success as a vocalist Abigail knew it was time to once again pursue her other passion; songwriting. Her first writing credit came with the release of “You Set Me Free” in 2000 on Strictly Rhythm Records. Abigail began to visit major publishing companies in search of collaborators with whom she could develop and refine her craft while determining her musical niche. Her art as a singer-songwriter was evolving and it was soon time to put together a collection of her songs which expressed her deepest thoughts, feelings and observations. Abigail’s long-awaited second album, “Home …again” is that stunning collection.  It delivers a breathtaking journey of love, loss and triumph that surveys a huge range of emotions and experiences. The title track of the album, a touching tribute to her grandfather penned shortly after his death; the hauntingly beautiful “Songbird”, written at a time of deep personal turmoil; and the proven radio hit “Better With You”, co-written with Dimitri Ehrlich who also co-wrote Moby’s single ‘Where You End’; all prove that Abigail Zsiga’s authenticity is established by her principle that artistic creation establishes and maintains credibility.

In addition to her musical achievements Abigail is also an dedicated advocate for the human rights organization "Justice For Children International" (www.jfci.org) who work to combat child sex trafficking through advocacy, prevention and aftercare.

---

Abigail Rogan  (born 23 July 1946, London, England) is an English/Australian actress, most famous for her role as "Bev Houghton" in the 1970's Australian television soap opera, Number 96. She emigrated to Australia in 1968.

---

Abigail (Cze)

An alternative rock band from the Czech Republic, the website for which can be found at http://bandzone.cz/abigail. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abigail">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.