Abintras´ music took its roots in 1994 in the slums of Vancouvers´ downtown east side when Darryl Neudorf and Tracy Pillsworth met with Tom Anselmi of the band Copyright late one fall night. The three met on the top floor of a building that was built in 1948. Little did they know, however, that the space they were meeting in would become home to a group of artists and end up generating dozens of CD´s and vinyl representing Vancouvers´ eclectic underground. The studio was named after the arched words painted in gold on the front of the buildings black and green tiled facade; Miller Block was born.

That night it was decided that Darryl and Tracy would lend Tom their recording equipment to record what was to become Copyrights´ second CD, Lovestory, in exchange for the building of a studio space that was soundproofed and secure. The merging of equipment, space and intense talent that surrounded Miller Block allowed for the trust and cooperation necessary to sustain a creative studio environment that flourished for six years, until the Fall of 2000. Abintras´ music grew up at Miller Block and reflects the recordings and sonic manipulations of Darryl Neudorf (54/40, Moev, Dead Voices On Air, Copyright) Tracy Pillsworth, aka Sugarpill, (Dead Voices On Air) and features fellow musicians Ryan Moore (Twilight Circus Dub Sound System, The Legendary Pink Dots, Teargarden), Mark Spybey (Dead Voices On Air, Download, Zoviet France), Darren Phillips (HELLENKELLER, Dead Voices On Air, Sarah McLachlan), Dave Postnikov (Active Joy, Crawl And Trust Us) and Ryan Danylepk (Tone3). Darryl Neudorf and Sugarpill, collectively known as Abintra, produced what Mark Spybey states is "a beautifully crafted pop album" in a space "veined deep into the blackened stump of Vancouvers´ Skid Row..I kid you not..".

http://www.abintra.net/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abintra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.