Abitbollus is an avant-garde metal band from France.

Biography:
The man was sitting down, mysteriously alone, at a table of the good inn of Mrs Felipe, the look lost in his glass, the space and dirty. Shone, simple cowboy become in some years the Man most Class of the World which today was nothing more, and who they said even died.

At some tables from there, a young man of the name of Ludwig Amadeus Beethozart also assessed his ownly internal. Successively at the head of groups as Scavengers, Apollonia or Virgin Empalers, he had attained hoped recognition and had ended up " being disgusted by some metal ", as certain deposed local celebrities... He, nevertheless, was not alone, accompanied with Régine Blaude, he has had dinner this evening there with his comrade-in - arms Donald "Kid " Toshiro, spaceships conceptor. They searched an idea together once again musical plan which would alloy potency and originality. It is while they saw one whore of bastard to head for the table of... George Abitbol ! They had not acknowledged this Has Been! Say that this player of musical saw had been one day number one with his group Sherraf ! They approached in their tower while George dedicated a CD with SAS Guy de Michelin (because it was him), celebrate singer of Metal A Capella of the group Fumatory, him too in artistic unemployment since the split of this last. It ends up getting on well with the maestro whom, magnanimous, invited them all to his table. To unite such cerebrums in the same place is not without risk, and what owed arrive arrived. They ordered ravioles (and an entrecôte for Kid) first but there the purpose is not, between music, déconnade and good chow, ideas rang out from everywhere... and if they created a group alloying the symphonic potency of Emperor with absurd Monty Python's  ? Unlikely ? Unachievable ? Then, it was exactly the plan which they needed: SAS  would take responsibility for texts and for singing, L.A.B. and Kid of compositions and guitars, George of the battery and finally Régine of management (and later of the keyboard). So Abitbollus was born.

Pieces very fast came into the world (Salmona Satani ", " Blague Metal ") then soon an album (" De Mysteriis Don Camillo "), recorded to the famous Walnut Groove Studio. That it had proud paces this CD and criticisms (Hard N' Heavy, Hard Rock Magazine, The Dark Messiah) did not make a mistake there. Little by little, the album crosses Sum, then the Sleeve, and crossed Canadian and Czech borders even. And finally, supreme consecration, their fans could return them a vibrating homage during an unforgettable passage in the famous "Ecartelés Fest " of Pitibon s/Saône.

Collapsing under gold and lust, our friends agreed some months of repose under the Californian sun then, arriving levies, they ended up going back to work. And, in barely 48 hours (displayed over one year), "Clock Me Jesus", always recorded to the Walnut Groove Studio, finally came into the world, crushing everything on his passage thanks to titles as "Capillo Tractum" or else " 7th Son of Massey Fergusson ".

The flapping of wings of a butterfly in Tokyo can change the time in Barcelona ... The flapping of wings of an angel can also change the destiny of a group. And that's how after 5 years of collaboration, Kid seeming to turn to other musical skylines, the group let it take alone its takeoff. A new way opened them, on which would not miss to join them soon a new guitarist …

And the sky answered their requests : it put on their way a marginal messiah who preached their Holy Word in the desert : Buckaroo Messiah, old accomplice of the Apollonia's years, who was going to accompany them in new adventures Consequently, nothing more could stop them…

It is said in lost leaves (and ever found) of Nostradamus, that these perfect the unknowns would be a day very known and that their albums would know a mondialo-régionnal success after the unexplained suicide of the singer. They suspect hard the musicians of wanting to hasten this disappearing because in the last news, this last would still give no sign of physical or moral weakness...

www.abitbollus.fr.tc <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abitbollus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.