Jasun Tipton - Guitars and Keys
Troy Tipton - Bass
Mike Guy - Drums
Richard Sharman - Guitars

Hailing from Northern California, twin brothers Jasun and Troy Tipton along with Mike Guy are the musicians that makes up Abnormal Thought Patterns.

In 2008, Jasun wrote and recorded "Velocity and Acceleration". A twelve minute instrumental that would unknowingly jumpstart Abnormal Thought Patterns. Upon hearing the song, Troy expressed to Jasun "It's time to put together an instrumental band". The Tipton brothers looked no further than longtime drummer and friend Mike Guy as the perfect fit for ATP. The three members tracked seven songs for CynNormal Lab Recordings.

The trio has previously released five albums with the Progressive-Metal act Zero Hour. Michael Rensen of the premier German magazine Rock Hard proclaimed, "Zero Hour is one of the five Best Progressive Newcomers in the late '90s!" This earned Zero Hour shows alongside such bands as Opeth, Cynic, Symphony X, All That Remains, The Human Abstract and Liquid Tension Experiment as well as successfully touring Europe and performing three times at Prog Power USA. The twins have also been guest columnists on the 'Chops from Hell' guitar site as well as releasing 2 instructional videos.

The band's 4 part epic "Velocity and Acceleration" and Troy's bass instrumental "Ulnar Nerve Damage" was mixed by talented Producer/Engineer Dino Alden (Marty Friedman, Zero Hour). Due to Dino's carpal surgeries the band reached out to Matt LaPlant (Sikth, Nonpoint) to mix "The Machine Within" and "Electric Sun". The EP was mastered by Alan Douches (Between The Buried and Me, The Dillinger Escape Plan). In order to complete the live sound, ATP recruited longtime friend and talented guitarist Richard Sharman. A student of Jasun's for many years and a great addition to the group. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abnormal+Thought+Patterns">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.