Aborted Existence started in August 2003 with one goal in mind. Keep metal fun and extreme at the same time. They are 5 young men who like to hang out with their friends and jam out some metal. Forget all the spikes, all the evil, all the grimness, this young quintet likes to keep it real. They wear mens clothing and have mens haircuts. No girl pants, size youth large shirts, or prissy hair-do’s. The most common statement made about Aborted Existence amongst fans and listeners alike is that they do not sound like any one particular band. Instead of blending the usual smorgasbord of drop C breakdowns, minor third “Iron Maiden” melodies, and screeching vocals, they arrange their songs in such a way that one minute you will find yourself pummeled by hyper blasting madness underneath insane time signatures, and the next, getting lost into a psychedelic atmosphere of swirling clean guitars, followed by slamming guttural groove. The vocals are often compared to every style of band on the market such as Unearth, Suffocation, Devourment, Lamb of God, and Decrepit Birth. Both the guitarists, along with the bass player use 7 string instruments, allowing for a broad range of anything from high pitched tapping riffs and super chunky sludge. Since the band’s inception, they have made their mark in their unheard of hometown of Dover, Delaware as the guys that play really fast but actually sound good. Surrounded by top 40's cover bands, and your run-of-the-muck emo bands, these guys do their best to bring metal to a place that only has one metal bar almost an hour away, and college bars crammed with yuppie Dave Matthews fans. They have gone through several line up changes over the years , each one providing to open yet another door of seemingly endless influence. In 2004, they recorded a 3 song basement demo called “Extinction Embraced” and at least 1000 copies were distributed. Some were sold, and some were free. In 2005, They took it into their own hands to once again self record their CD “Sunken Eye View” with a horrible 16 track recorder. Sound engineer Dhuruvan (Durv) Viswanathan at Serious Studios did his best to clean up some of the muddiness, insisting that the band trash the project and start over in his studio. The band had already put a years worth of work into the CD, so they finished and pressed the CD and sold it at shows and out of their own homes. Sunken Eye View hadn’t even been finished yet when they went to work on their next CD, hungry to put out an actual professional studio album. They began building up a following through Myspace, shows, and the internet in general, more people became interested in the band that they couldn’t quite put their finger on. They played many shows along the east coast, destroying bars, venues, churches, and anywhere that would let them play, all the while writing brutal, yet melodically intricate new music. In July of 2006 they entered Serious Studios once again without the help of any label to begin recording their first studio full length. Spending almost $5,000 of their own hard earned paychecks on pre-production alone and 11 months later here in June of 2007 the album is near completion. Crystal clear production and a sound tight enough to catch the ears of fans of Origin , Beneath the Massacre, and Nile, is the result of hundreds of hours of hard work on both the band and Durv’s part. The CD artwork and layout is all done by artist Tony Koehl (Waking The Cadaver, Goratory, Malignancy) and the album will be mastered by Alan Douches of West Side Studios (Unearth, Shadows Fall, Vital Remains). Once again, the thousands of dollars it costs to pay for all this came from the bands own pocket, working overtime at their jobs as painters, brick layers, and waiters. The bands plans after the album is complete is to sign to a label and hit the road in support of their first studio album
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aborted+Existence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.