There are a few artists under the name of Abraham:

1) ABRAHAM (Rachel Cuming / Lee Jones). With a voice of fragile innocence and backing tracks imbued with cinematic atmospheres and supremely languid beats, "Blue For The Most", the second studio album from Sussex's Abraham, featuring the sultry voice of Rachel Cuming, sounds like Dido produced by Zero 7 and Goldfrapp. The tenderly seductive "Magpie", "What Gives With You" and "City For Us", country tinged laments rolling to deep, down-tempo funk grooves, sweeping strings and watery electronica, are all as effortlessly brooding as they are gorgeous. Meanwhile the dark orchestration and claustrophobic computer noise that drives dark odes "Start the Song Backwards" and "Heather" are up there with the most chilling film scores. Yet there's an ever-present sensuality and optimism that makes everything here completely enchanting. As the smouldering title track illustrates, Abraham's hazy charms are too hopeful to be trip hop, and--with the tingling romance of lullaby "Ever So Slowly" proving the point--too ingenious to be dubbed just another chillout album. Produced by Lee Jones of Hefner.
Discography: 
Blue for the most (Genres: Dance, Music, Released: Mar 18, 2002, ℗ 2002 V2 Music Limited)
On the surface (Genres: Dance, Music, Released: May 15, 2001, ℗ 2001 V2 Music Limited).
website: www.rachelcuming.com 

2) ABRAHAM - 5 piece post-metal act from Switzerland.
Born in 1866 BC, Abraham lived a peaceful life near Sodom, marrying his half-sister and giving birth to all decent humankind when already aged far over 100 years. Those golden days have gone, but the virile power of his beard survived and spurted back in 2007 as a rock band. This happened in Lausanne, Switzerland. Since then, Abraham plaited songs with these ancestral hairs, songs weaved with violence and despair. Abraham created a barren aural landscape where grand rock faces of guitars loom large over occasional restrained moments of calm sublimity and haunting beauty. Abrasiveness is the word here: Abraham will wash over you like a sudden cloudburst in the desert and make you feel like jagged rock exposed to the elements. Committed, intense and aggressive songwriting eventually led them to record their first full-length, An Eye on the Universe. The many times appraised album somehow made its way into the ears of Robin Staps (The Ocean) who released the record on his label Pelagic Records in early 2011. Followed a year of touring various barber’s shops in France, Germany, Czech Republic and Switzerland, sharing scissors with gentlemen called Red Fang, Intronaut, Khoma, EF, The Ocean, Celan, Birds In Row, Mumakil or Kruger. The long camelback trips from one show to the next left time enough for weaving tons of new material. Abraham entered the studio in March 2012 to record 8 brand new songs for their upcoming 'The Serpent, the Prophet & the Whore'. This short-novel based concept album will hit stores in autumn and will be backed with some serious european touring. Expect them in France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Slovenia, Croatia, Czech Republic, Italy. Look for them at shows with The Ocean, Coilguns, Cult of Luna .

http://www.myspace.com/abrahamband
www.facebook.com/abrahamtheband

3) Abraham is an Estonian battle-rapper who lives in the same area with Põhjamaade Hirm. They do shit together and are homies. Abraham appeared on the Estonian battle rap album Osta Elevant Ära.

4) A flamenco artist, featured on the compilation Caracter Flamenco.

5)Abraham cz, post-hardcore instrumental band from Czech republic, Jičín. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abraham">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.