Abramelin is one of Australia's most legendary death metal bands, despite enduring long bouts of inactivity since the mid-90s. The band was formed under the name Acheron in Melbourne, Australia in 1988 by guitarist David Abbott, with a line-up completed by Dower, Jason Black (guitar), Michael Colton (drums) and bass player Derek. Aldridge replaced Black in time for the recording of the "Eternal Suffering" demo. Justin Wornes (bass) and Jason Dutton (drums) joined shortly afterward.

Acheron released a 7" EP called "Deprived of Afterlife" on French label Corpsegrinder in 1991. Dutton was released from duties and was replaced by Craig Bailey on drums. Abbott was shortly replaced by Jason Kells (Disembowlment) for a short time. Kells left and was replaced by Necrotomy bassist Mark "Shulby" Schuliga on rhythn Guitars. In 1994 shortly after their carcass support, Bailey left and was replaced by Heriot. Acheron changed its name to Abramelin to avoid further confusion with the US black metal band, taking inspiration from the name of a 14th Century magician and alchemist. The first release under the new name was a badly-produced EP, issued on Dark Oceans. Schulby left the band after this and Abramelin recorded their full-length debut as a four piece.

Abramelin was released by Shock's metal label Thrust in 1995 and was almost immediately banned in Western Australia and then some other markets due to the graphic nature of Dower's lyrics. Earth drummer Rob Mollica joined the band as second guitarist at this point. The album was issued internationally by Spain's Repulse Records in 1997 but given little label support and re-released in Australia through Shock with the earlier EP added, but minus a lyric sheet.

Heriot left Abramelin in 1996 to maintain commitments to Fracture and Blood Duster and was replaced briefly by ex-Blood Duster drummer Matt Rizzo and then by Skitz from Damaged. After a performance at the 1997 Metal for the Brain festival, Abramelin then appeared to grind to a halt with the rumoured and eagerly awaited second album lost in the aether.

Deadspeak was eventually released in mid-2000 as a two piece effort with Aldridge responsible for all the music, although Skitz had laid down the original drum tracks that were later re-recorded using a drum machine.

Abramelin appeared at Metal for the Brain in 2000 and then toured with Cradle of Filth in 2001. The band's live line-up for that tour was Dower, Aldridge and Rizzo, plus Steel Affliction and The Berzerker guitarist Matt Wilcock and bassist Grant Karajic. Since these shows, Abramelin seems to have gone into hiding once more. Wilcock is now a member of British black/death metal band Akercocke.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abramelin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.