There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Gabrielle Olivia Mirville (born March 30 in Queens, NY, US), known professionally as Abra (stylized as ABRA), is an American alt-pop/R&B singer-songwriter, actress and record producer from Atlanta, Georgia, US.

The "darkwave duchess" of Awful Records, an otherwise rap crew from Atlanta, Abra is a singer and songwriter who makes shadowy, mostly slow R&B that deviates from the slicker sounds of the genre's commercial artists. Born in New York and raised in London, she moved near Atlanta, Georgia when she was eight and felt like a misfit -- a situation that inspired her to learn to play guitar and write. She later connected with Awful's Father, who remixed her track "Needsumbody." Its video was uploaded in September 2014. The following year, as a full-fledged Awful artist, she released an EP, Blq Velvet, and quickly followed it with an album, Rose. Princess, a six-song EP with a more defined sound highlighted by the yearning neo-freestyle track "Crybaby," arrived in July 2016. It was issued through a partnership between Awful and Matador subsidiary True Panther Sounds. In 2017, Ninja Tune issued Rose on vinyl. 

2) A grindcore band from Sweden

3) A rapper/poet/beatboxer/producer from Latvia.

4) An indie band from G.R. Michigan.

5) A folk band from Romania.

6) Raymond Mikael Camino Abracosa aka "Abra" (born December 2, 1990) is a fliptop/hiphop artist from Bangued, Abra, the Philippines. His music video for his song "Gayuma" gained 35 million views in a three-year span. He joined the award-winning Pinoy hip hop group Lyrically Deranged Poets in 2010 before joining the Fliptop Battle League under his stage name. He made a cameo appearance as a fictional version of himself in the movie Boy Pick-Up: The Movie.

He and Maja Salvador came together for the song "Halika Na," which was released as part of Maja's debut album Believe. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.