There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Abscess was an american death metal band that also combined some elements of grindcore, punk and death doom metal into their sound.

The band was born from the ashes of Autopsy in 1994, featuring some of its former members. Although the lyrics remain rooted in the themes of horror and gore, Abscess has a more 'tongue-in-cheek' approach to death metal compared with Autopsy.

Abscess released six full-length studio albums: Seminal Vampires And Maggot Men (1996), Tormented (2000), Through The Cracks Of Death (2002), Damned And Mummified (2004), Horrorhammer (2007) and Dawn Of Inhumanity (2010). 

The band broke up in 2010 when guitarist/vocalist Clint Bower decided to leave the band for personal reasons. 


2) Abscess is an electro-industrial band from Germany that formed in 1994 consisting of vocalist Jan Bicker and composer/programmer Sunny Schramm. After self-releasing several demos they signed to Glasnost Records in Hamburg, Germany later that year. Working with famed X-Marks The Pedwalk frontman and producer, Severn-Ni-Arb (André Schmechta), at his T.G.I.F. Studios they recorded and released their first album in 1995, "In Your Mind", to wide-spread positive reviews. The following year they produced, recorded and engineered their second album, "Journey", on the same label. For their their third and final known album, "Punishment & Crippled Reality", they moved to the legendary Zoth Ommog label in 1999. This was reprinted that same year on the Gashed! label. They have also made several compilation appearances. 

With the collapse of Zoth Ommog they have not released any further material although they are rumoured to have material for another album. Sunny Schramm continues to be involved in the music industry as a producer and re-mixer under the pseudonym of  'Type (2)'. 


3) Abscess is a Death Metal band formed in 1991 in Campinas, Brazil, by the core of brothers Glauco Silva and Caio Cezar. They released one demo (Pestilent Emanation, 1994) and took part on a compilation (Death Or Glory Vol. 1, 1995) released by Heavy Metal Rock records. They played a single gig as Kemöth in 2003, and are returning to activities in 2008. Official website: www.myspace.com/abscessbr <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abscess">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.