There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) Absentee was an English alt-rock band based in London that was active 2003–2008. 
2) Absentee was the former artist name of American musician Christopher Francis. 
3) Absentee was a hardcore band. 

1) Absentee was an English alt-rock band based in London that was active 2003–2008 signed to Memphis Industries. It was formed by Dan Michaelson (vocalist, guitarist) and Melinda Bronstein (vocals, keyboards, melodica, glockenspiel) in 2003 after releasing a mini album titled Hawaiian Disco.  They were joined by guitarist Babak Ganjei, bassist Laurie Earle and drummer Jon Chandler. 
In 2005, the band released their debut six-track EP, Donkey Stock, which was number 28 in NME's Top 50 Albums of 2005.  Donkey Stock contained the song Something to Bang, which would also be included on their debut full-length album, Schmotime, which was released in 2006.  
Schmotime received many positive reviews, including a rare 9/10 review from NME, and again appeared in the Top Albums of 2006 from NME.  The album was produced by James Ford of Simian Mobile Disco, who had previously worked with Arctic Monkeys and The Mystery Jets.
Absentee have released four songs from their debut album: Something To Bang, Weasel, We Should Never Have Children and There's A Body In A Car Somewhere.    
Guitarist Babak Gangei has made the album artwork for Donkey Stock and Schmotime, as well as an animated video for We Should Never Have Children.  When not recording and touring with Absentee, all the band members have side projects: singer Dan has Dan Michaelson and the Coastguards; Babak, Melinda and Laurie have Wet Paint and Melinda has The Bronsteins.

2) Absentee was the former artist name of American musician Christopher Francis (born Christopher Schiel), aka Son, based in Olympia, Washington. www.myspace.com/sonsongs

3) Absentee was a hardcore band.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Absentee">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.