In 2006 Absolute Vengeance was conceived out of anger, betrayal, revenge, and the desire to create ass-kicking metal. After splitting with their previous band, four members: Dwight Mulbradt, Drew Landriau, Stephen Clay, and Jonathan Clay, decided that they wanted to create music that was superior to everything they had done before. Simply put, the goal was to return with an absolute vengeance. 

The chemistry between the members gives the band a unique advantage. Brothers and guitarists Stephen and Jonathan Clay have been playing together for years. Dwight and Drew, who comprise the rhythm section, also enjoy the benefit of having played together in their high school drum-line before the creation of Absolute Vengeance. All four members had also played together in the D.C. area metal band Fierce Allegiance. 

Just weeks after splitting with their old singer, who kept the name of his band, the four members of Absolute Vengeance were ready to start anew and create something different with a new vocalist. The four members were lucky to find Brian Gant. From the first meeting he had an intense drive and came ready to contribute to the music. Originally a bass player, Brian had been in a few bands before and had a knowledge of songwriting and performing that was invaluable. 

The goal of Absolute Vengeance is to create interesting, heavy music that puts musicianship first and pays little attention to current trends. Absolute Vengeance is about music over image and seeks to change peoples’ perceptions of what current “American metal” sounds like. Lastly, Absolute Vengeance is a proponent of the DIY mentality. The members create the artwork for their releases, book their own shows, mod their own gear, and generally do things their own way. They possess the level of drive and motivation that the name Absolute Vengeance would imply. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Absolute+Vengeance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.