ABSTRACTA

AbstractA formed in September 1995. The band fondators - Fabio Sanges (keyboards) and Giuseppe Orlando (drums, also playing with Novembre, a band that signed now to release a new album on Century Media) - were enjoying themselves mixing their favorite musical stuff and creating first riffs, first ideas, which gave reasons to their project to live.

First line-up showed the two fondators above mentioned with the vocals of Stefano Diamanti and Claudio Panelli on guitar. Right after the first sessions Lorenzo Valentini (bass) joined the band. AbstractA, then still using the old name of 'Dimensione Astratta' (Abstract Dimension), soon realized their first three italian-singed tracks.

During the spring of '96, Lorenzo Valentini quits the band, due to his will to be involved in some more personal musical projects. The band, after a complete standstill moment, find at the beginning of '97 its new bass player, Luigi Tega, who covers in a brilliant way, the hiatus opened by Valentini.

With this new line-up the band was able to obtain its first deal,

with Elevate Records. Following a suggest of their label, the guys change their name to Abstracta and decide to rewrite all the lyrics in English. Between February and may 1998, they've composed two new songs ('Red Sunsets On Earth' and 'Distant'), that, along with the others and the instrumental 'The Disoriented Oriental', will feature on Abstracta first release, called 'T.R.I.P.'.

While recording the album (summer '98), the band changes their singer, Stefano (due to technical problems) with Titta Tani (ex Glory Hunter), who, thanks to his stunning performance on 'T.R.I.P', will provide to be the best new lead vocalist for AbstractA.

In April 2000 they play at HM Rock Cafè (Rome) in front of all DREAM THEATER  Band (Except John Myung) that remained very impressed from them.

 

 

 

        Line up:

         

        Fabio Sanges: Keyboards

        Titta Tani: Vocals

        Giuseppe Orlando: Drums

        Luigi Tega: Bass

        Claudio Panelli: Guitar
     
    Discography :

    T.R.I.P.  1998



 

 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abstracta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.