Growing up in New Jersey, Luke Terkovich, otherwise known as Abstract, was involved with music at an early age. Learning how to play piano, electric guitar, and the drums were Luke’s first involvement with music — and he did it all before 6th grade. With a move across country from New Jersey to Jackson, Wyoming, the distance between learning and playing new instruments got larger. It wasn’t until several years later that Luke began to mess around with freestyling during his high school years spent at Jackson Hole High. Evolving his newly found musical expression into writing detailed lyrics, he began to find that he could vent the stresses of his everyday life through creating music. Slowly progressing through the years of his new town where he calls home; balancing school, life, and music developed Luke to become Abstract.

Trying to find his sound was a young teenager who just looked to get something written down and then translated into music, and eventually rap. Still in his caterpillar stage of metamorphosis was a young Abstract who released his first ever collection of songs, properly named The Dream.

In 2012, through YouTube, Abstract met Craig McAllister, a producer from Glasgow, Scotland. During that period, Abstract was in the midst of working on On My Own Time and was the first time Craig showed up with Abstract. Afterwards, the duo started to mesh extremely well and produced the five projects, Under Lights & Microscopes, A Life To Live By, Dreaming With Eyes Open, The Science Of Feeling Tall, and We Are The Artist.

Still working closely with Craig, Abstract was soon contacted by Drumma Battalion — producing duo Patrick and Glenn from Norway — due to Abstract’s popularity and view count rising from popular YouTube channels such as SwagyTracks, FPM Music, and BestModernMusic. Together, the three teamed up to do the full project Looking For Forever.

Later, Abstract and Blulake met online and created their hit single “Neverland,” which was the start to a new artist/producer combination. With all the success from “Neverland,” time would be all that it took for Abstract and Blulake to come together and create AltRock Graffiti, the six-track rock/soft rock sample-EP.

Today, Abstract is dabbling on learning how to produce for himself and continues to work with and have shared success with Craig McAllister, Drumma Battalion, and Blulake.

What makes Abstract truly in a league of few and far between is his lyrical versatility and unique flow. Leaving nothing untouched, Abstract alters his records with various topics that can range from love/relationships to success to political topics or even humanity and mankind itself. Always promising to keep it interesting, the instrumentals/producers that Abstract works with always provides something new to where the demonstration of skill, flow and lyrically wise, is always proved.

Referring to his team and fans as “ATWW,” an anagram for “A Team Worldwide,” Abstract is always making it clear how much of an impact the internet has been on his craft, both in creating his music and sharing it.

Abstract has grown a truly dedicated fanbase from all over the world with his unique ability to create and transform music. Abstract has been accredited by popular music blogs such as College Of Music, Ok-Tho, SpeakerGems, The Place For Things, and This Song Slaps. Garnishing monstrous success on platforms such as SoundCloud, YouTube, SwagyTracks, and Spotify, Abstract has managed to rake in incredible amounts of views/listens with over 340 thousand monthly listeners on Spotify — and through the various social media and music sharing sites above, has a combined 130+ thousand followers.

In 2016, Abstract, Blulake, & Drumma Battalion met up in Sweden for the first time to create their debut album, Something To Write Home About. The album chronicled the last six years of Abstract’s life and rise. A journey from dark to light, the album gave birth to a slew of hits, including “I Do This” by Roze, Abstract, and Drumma and “22” by Delaney Kai, Abstract, and Blulake. The album charted on iTunes Hip-Hop in fifteen different countries, truly cementing Abstracts fan base as “A Team Worldwide.”

In early 2017, Abstract was invited on his first tour by New York phenom, Yonas. Since then he has gone on multiple tours, both overseas and in-States. Abstract and his team have spent the last year releasing singles while working on a massive album behind the scenes. What’s next to come is sure to be a “movie”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abstract">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.