ABSURD CONFLICT are Brno, Czech Republic based metal band. They started with a tape "Hopeless Despair" (1998) which attracted Czech underground with melodic and aggressive death metal expression. The first official mini CD release "I'm Your History" (Meret Productions, 2001) offers more technical material full of innovative ideas. 
    The band supports their record with a frequent live playing in the Czech Republic and neigbouring countries, including participation on major underground festivals. Their activities backed by management led by Louďa Dvořák help the band become established in the scene. Central European tours with GARDENS OF GEHENNA, PREJUDICE and most recently NEGLECTED FIELDS resulted in more recognition also abroad. 
    The year 2003 is a challenge for the band as two members leave the band for personal reasons, however new suitable recruitments are found to push the band even further. The new material sounds more mature and experienced, building on the band's strengths which lie with melodic and technical guitars and tight drumming. A 4-track promo has been recorded to attract a deal for a full-length album.  
    In the meantime the band shows up at the summer festivals in Czech Republic and finishes off the activities in 2003 by a short tour in Serbia. 
    The beginning of 2004 presents difficulties as the lead guitarist and main songwriter Jenda ends up with a hand injury meaning a several month break in playing. After a few warm-up shows around the home area the band sets off for another Eurotour w/ NEGLECTED FIELDS visiting for the first time Poland and Latvia. The year is successfully closed with two shows at prestigious Moravian festivals - Allmetal in Olomouc and Apocalypsa (supporting ROOT) in Brno.
    The first half of 2005 should be devoted to composing new material to be materialised in summer. Besides, ABSURD CONFLICT feature at a special theatre night in Brno in February and go to Serbia for two more shows in March. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Absurd+Conflict">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.