ABYSMALIA is a finnish modern thrash / progressive metal project initiated by Jouni Koskela (also in CLOCK PARADOX, ex-NOME and ex-LIQUORWORKS). The band started out as a one-man-project, coming to flesh in 2007 when "The Sewage of Lies" EP was recorded. The material for the debut had been gathered since 2002.

After getting some positive feedback, Jouni Koskela decided to write more material for the project and recruited Antti Jylhä (also in DAMAGING FALLOUT) as a bassist for the project during Spring 2008. The first self-distributed full-length release "Portals to Psychotic Inertia" (released in June 2008) concentrated more on the progressive side of "extreme metal" as well as persistently absorbed elements from non-metal categories. The album gained solely positive feedback in the underground scene as well as in the few reviews. Along with the two full-time members, the album featured two guest musicians appearing on some of the tracks, a young and very prominent fusion keyboardist Panu Rauhala (also in GRAND DISCOVERY) and vocalist Marko Nikula (also in LIM and ALLAROUND).

Upon the time of recording the album number two, entitled "Quid Humanum Est" (released in April 2009), Marko Nikula was added to the ranks as a permanent member for the lead clean vocals. The album itself was a progression towards "a tad heavier and thrashier material" than its predecessor, without losing its progressive edge and the catchy pop elements displayed on "Portals to Psychotic Inertia".

The three-piece machinery forged their third coming entitled "Replenish Entirety". Released on the internet on 2nd of April 2010, the album did not utilize any guest appearances from outside the band. Its perplexing diversity and dramatic atmosphere throughout received mixed reception among the followers of the earlier releases, however the band is pleased in achieving to break their borders once again. 

Due to the fact that all bandmembers are scattered across Finland, Abysmalia remains strictly a studio project at the moment. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Abysmalia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.