In the beginning of May 2003 a band called Access Beyond had its dawning.

Janne(g), Jussi(b) and Antti(d) had already played together for some years but the previous band projects had come to the end of their roads due to reasons unremembered.
”The triangle” still kept on training in the same band facility, made possible by the city of Kouvola (greetings to ”Lalli”), for some time and worked on some new material.
In the fall 2001 Andy(voc) be ginned training in the same facilities with his other project and the two bands had same co-operation during the years 2001, 2002 and 2003.
The growing hunger of a new band led to a search for a second guitarist and a keyboardist. Janne, Jussi and Antti already knew Jani(kb) and Matti(g) from earlier times and asked them to join the band somewhere between the time of late-fall 2002 and early- spring 2003. The two new artists quickly purchased their places with convincing control of their instruments and the kind of attitude the original members were going for. So this group of five trained few times during the spring and Andy visited in vocals a couple of times.
Andy had the intention to do vocals at Opistorock2003 (a live-act-band-meeting arranged every year by the city of Kuusankoski) in his other band ("Hollow Ground" at the time) but due to an unfortunate accident to the ”HG’s” guitarist Robi the couldn’t perform in Opistorock2003.
Because of the damned situation with ”HG” Access Beyond’s boys decided to fill in the space with Andy singing the lead vocals although there was only about three weeks time for training and writing lyrics and so on…
Unfortunately the posters, flyers etc. of Opistorock2003 were already in the press so ”AB” performed their first live act under the name ”Hollow Ground” in 14th of July 2003…
…and the story continues…

http://www.accessbeyond.net/
www.myspace.com/accessbeyond <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Access+Beyond">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.