The Southern California rock band, Accomplice, has been a growing force in the progressive rock scene for many years, showcasing original material at high profile venues like the Blockbuster Pavilion, the Coach House, and the Galaxy Theatre. 1998 was focused on preparation for the release of Accomplice's self-produced debut album. This has included non-stop live performances in various clubs and theatres throughout Southern California, constantly striving to expand our concert opportunities, touring area, and fan-base. In 1998, the high-energy talents and versatility of Accomplice has earned them opening slots for Van Halen, Judas Priest, King's X, and Montrose. Past opening credits include performances with Rush, M.S.G., Night Ranger, T.N.T., Savatage and others. In 1999, the band spent the better part of the year writing and recording tracks for the follow-up to their first CD. In addition, the band appeared on a tribute to Dream Theater CD called "Voices" which was released in June on Adrenaline Records covering the hit "Pull Me Under". 

Attracting classically trained musicians with an obsession for excellence, coupled with inspired natural talent, their music contains broad arrangements and thick textures. Accomplice's style of contemporary progressive rock enriches listeners with an optimistic perspective on controversial issues. Combined with potent melodies and abundant hooks, they create songs that are listenable, singable and memorable. The versatility of the band is evident as they move from emotionally charged ballad to an aggressive, rock feel. Talent shines in their song writing, and equally as much in their live performances.

Accomplice's talents range from song-writing and composing to performing. The members and their backgrounds ignite creatively to produce a unique sound that is technically advanced, poetic, thought-provoking, and musically inspiring. Accomplice is: Sean Michael Clegg, guitarist and backing vocalist; Scott Snyder, bassist and backing vocalist; Richard Arbuckle, Percussionist and backing vocalist; and Michael T. Ross, keyboardist (Hardline/Angel).

With the completion of their first CD, entitled Accomplice, they have shown that they are a band of great force and depth. This year will be spent releasing the follow up "She's on Fire" with Hardline & Axel Rudi Pell frontman Johnny Goieli. This record was recorded in the Hollywood Hills and produced by Derek Sherinian (Yngwie J. Malmsteen, Billy Idol) & Simon Phillips (Toto, Whitesnake, Judas Priest). Following the release the group will discuss touring throughout Western Europe. This group is led by guitarist Sean Michael Clegg who wrote all music and lyrics for "She's on Fire". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Accomplice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.