Acerose was a Metalcore/Melodic Death Metal band that roamed the New England metal scene from 2006-2012. Highly influenced by Scandinavian melodic death metal, they remained true to their classic roots until playing a final show in winter of 2012.

Their first major release was the "Tales of Treachery" EP. Released in 2009, the EP featured founding members Nico Cannella and Jeff Blanchette on guitar, newfound vocal talent Jordan Stevens, bassist/vocalist Andrew Lemery and brother Ryan Lemery on drums. Guitarist Chris Lindsay, from local hardcore act For It Together, was added to the lineup as an additional guitarist just after the recording process of this album and played the CD release show in May of 2009.

With their solidified lineup, Acerose continued to pummel the Northeast and hopping on national tours whenever able. They built a loyal fanbase and continued to play shows around New England with such acts as Lamb of God, Gwar, Job For a Cowboy, the Misfits, Burning the Memory, Diecast, Acaro, etc.

2010 brought upon more shows and the process of recording a new EP. Entitled "Storming the Citadel," the new album was the first to include Chris in on the writing process. The combination of Jeff's technical style of playing, Nico's melodic and harmonious roots, and Chris' rhythmic and energetic outlook gave rise to a new sound for the EP. They had found their niche in the metal world, playing music that was crushing and full of energy, yet technical and melodic. Triple guitar lead harmonies, powerful riffing, and melodic vocals and growls became their signature sound.

After the departure of Ryan and Andrew from the band later that year, drums and bass were filled in by Bobby Coelho and John Quinn. Chris left shortly after and continued making music with his other project Bury Me Breathing. Jordan became the vocalist for local post hardcore act Patterns of Myra, and the Lemery brothers went on to form Reborn a Weapon.

Acerose played their final show in Providence, RI in December of 2011. Jordan on vocals, Nico, Chris, and Jeff on guitar, and Bobby on drums. A reunion show was played in early 2013 with Andy back on bass, Jordan, Nico, Jeff, and Bobby.

Jordan Stevens now does vocals for It Lives, It Breathes.
Nico Cannella is the vocalist/guitarist of his solo project, Steel Thunder.
Chris Lindsay does vocals and guitar for his solo project, Bury Me Breathing, which features guest appearances from ex-members Andy and Nico and has released three albums: a self titled, "II," and the "Annihilation EP."
Jeff Blanchette plays guitar in Building Pyramids. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Acerose">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.