Achernar is a Melodic Black Metal band from Italy - founded in early 2005. The two founding members include guitarists; Okram aka Marco Falchi and Misa aka Paolo Mereu. Marco is also, the singer/song-writer of the group. The only associated acts are Cerement, which Marco started in the 90s - thus, proving his only superior experience as a musician.

Later on, Achernar found a drummer; Reshaim in 2006 and bassist; Antonio in 2008 but, previously they had been playing Folk guitar styles with strong Classical elements. Something influenced by John Zwetsloot of Dissection's acoustic interludes on the album "The Somberlain". They had also been motivated by Gothic Rock at the time and did still incorporate strong elements of these ideas to make up their Melodies. They depended on Harmonic scales even more so than an average Metal band and didn't incorporate many "Raw" factors into the music.

The band obtained their name "Achernar" from the popular phenomena of the Greek figure in mythology. Achernar basically is; the farthest and most brightest star of the constellations (others are Cursa and Zaurak). The band found this star to be unique, and have motivated Cosmic beliefs based on this. The lyrical themes are also relevant to Sky and Internal Struggles.

In 2009, Achernar Self-Released the album entitled "Spectral Universe" with the help of mixing from Cristian Scarponi, of well known; Cadaveria and other early Italian Black Metal acts. The album contained seven tracks - in a total time of thirty-seven minutes and forty-four seconds. It includes a bonus song. Most of these songs had an acoustic intro and work into a Hypocrisy-influenced style with strong elements of tremolo picking and various strong bass entities from the drums and guitar. The album cover features a picture relevant to the title of the universe.

Archernar is from a South-Eastern Island apart of Italy. The Island is actually apart of the Mediterranean sea, so certain aspects of landscape and Greek mythology would certain be relevant to their culture. The bands other personal beliefs are entirely based away from various typical Black Metal politics. Firstly, they stand away from the imagery of the typical Black Metal bands and strive for a more politically correct yet, spiritual outcome of it and lastly, make a statement against any form of poor morals including Neo-Nazism, Fascism etc. Apart from that, they do not directly bash bands for their poor political ethics.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Achernar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.