Black/Thrash/Death metal band from China. It's the first full-length ablum which description the war in Chinese Mythology.
bandcamp facebook
Genre: blackened death metal black metal thrash metal
Record Label: Thanatology Productions

Band
Vocal: Xietian Hao (diezen.Xie) 
Bass: Zhao Ying ( yuri.Zhao) 
Guitar: Ye Yang (sebastiane.Ye) 
Guitar: high Feng (Gao) 
Drum: Ark (povernath.Fang)

BIO
Acherozu is a black metal band from Shenyang, Liaoning Province of China, was established in 2010 summer. The band struck early works mainly in black, the same year became active in the underground rock scene, and then won a public praise. early in 2011 with original members have left, the band entered a long rest period. During the band still did not give up writing, until the end of 2012 a new group of musicians to join the band formed so that today's second-generation lineup, style gradually integrated into the old death metal clip from the knock on the black, and in the same year the band officially changed the English name Acherozu , the background from Acheron (the ancient Greek myth of "Underworld River") and Zu (Chinese "funeral" of Rome homonym rewrite) combining two words. 　　　 

The band always uphold its own unique concept, the ancient Chinese myths and War epic northeast Manchuria land as their own and the country's enemies hate music theme, pure black metal genre cold and pathos, but without losing the traditional extreme metal brutality and power, tearing desperate voice. extreme heavy guitar round dial tone and bass will give vent to grief and anger and songs, dense arrangement of high speed drums and RIFF returned if summoned from the underworld killing beasts gushing out offensive on the battlefield and devouring breath, the audience even more crazy and cruel Underworld funeral offerings in the summer of 2013 the band signed buried dead former Beijing underground metal label on (Thanatology), and in collaboration with label debut album starts making plans.             

June 6, 2015 Saturday, Christians around the world are caught in the panic of the day, the band's debut album "Uncrowned King (uncrowned)," its release in Thanatology, this band works five sword One Chinese myth about gods and pay tribute to the ancient Mars expedition Chi concept album, tells the story of ancient times one after another prehistoric battle with Ares Chi was buried millennium epic uncompromising in most Northeast band are " nucleus "of today, the band remained buried deep share of old-school hardcore. At the same time the album is the band wrote their own growth and experience in five years, the real history without coronation, will only perpetuate the eternal principles of die-hard and unyielding. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Acherozu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.