Achiral started out in October 1995 with the intent of playing music in the thrash/death metal vein. Rehearsals culminated in the release of the first demo tape 'Dark Waters' in March of 1998. 'Dark Waters' was recorded in 3 days at Padded Cell Studios and includes 30 minutes of Thrash/Death/Black metal with melodic and experimental touches which showed what Achiral (then a four-piece) had been up to for the last two years. After the release of the demo, guitarist Ramon Debattista decided it was best to leave the band for his and the band's own good.

After this, Achiral decided to forge on as a trio and they started working on new material. Most of the melodic and experimental parts were put aside to a more straight-forward metal style combining crushing metal riffs, infernal dual vocal attack, pounding battery and ripping guitar solos.

Achiral performed intensely around Malta in a number of festivals including the Grim Reaper annual metal-fest, Rock in the Woods open air fest, Bisoul Promotions's Equinox Dark Art Night, Metal Mind fest, Metal at Lust 2002 supporting Germans 'Ad Noctum' and 'Abyzz', and in a number of gigs with a number of other local bands, amongst which a support slot with locals 'Beheaded' and Czech. Rep. 'Fleshless'.

During four arid days of August 2001 Achiral recorded their debut CD at Temple Studios. 'Wander Ignite' was officially released in January 2002 during the airplay of Malta's premier Metal Radio Show 'Grinta'. 'Wander Ignite' shows the progress and new attitude adopted since the release of 'Dark Waters'. The sinister intro 'Into the Arid' sets up the atmosphere for the trio to blast their way at full speed for the next thirty-two minutes through 'Equinoctial Desires', 'Stark & Silent', 'Wandering Knight' and 'Spiraling' - travelling through ancient, far away lands encountering mythological entities, rage, anger, despair and human struggle in an intricate weaving of emotions and forgotten legends.

In 2005 Charles left the band for personal reasons. Bassist Johann Tabone (ex- Sceptocrypt) was recruited. The band performed live for a couple of times and finally disbanded.

In July 2010, Calc and Charles decided to re-unite the band. Unfortunately, Ray could not commit himself and so guitarist Keith Fenech (ex-Archaic Descent) was asked to join in whilst Charles took on the vocal duties.

Together they worked on some old material, however it was evident from the very start that they worked well together and soon new songs and ideas started to emerge and the first track by the new line-up was born. From then on there was no looking back, and new songs were written and composed. Some old material was also resurrected.

After some consideration, it was decided that another guitarist would have given more depth to the music, and Lithomancy guitarist James Decelis was asked to join. James fitted well with the band's needs.

For some time, Roderick Mifsud (ex-Putrified Disfigurement vocalist) was recruited to deepen the vocals. However, due to other commitments, Roderick left the band amicably and it was decided that he should not be replaced.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Achiral">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.