Ostend, Belgium, Spring 1999 : Jerry & Kris Winkelmans, Rik Aspeslagh & Kris Bollenberg joined forces. The foundations of Achyronthia were a fact.
 
The band expanded to six by the end of the year.
Chris Dufour on bass and singer Nicolas François completed the package. Under the banner of metal, songwriting commenced and the journey began…
 
Achyronthia was seen on stage for the first time in April of 2000.
A couple of gigs followed.
 
Their first demo was planned in 2002. “The fountain of Youth” was recorded in the Rockfabriek in Brussels and contains six tracks.
 
Shortly after recording in Brussels, the journey came to a standstill. They parted ways with their singer. The band also lost its rehearsalroom, they were out for about 9 months.
Finally the path to Hell opened again and Achyronthia arose from its desolation. They found a new hiding place and a new vocalist called Ramses Heydens.
 
The following months were spent on songwriting. Almost all of the older songs were left behind.
 
The object of their effort: Heading for a first professional recording.
 
In 2005 they planned the recording of a self financed full-length CD at Midas studio in Lokeren.
 
But again, fate had bad timing!
A couple of weeks before the "recording starting-point" Ramses left the band. His job & band activities became impossible to combine.
 
The vacancy was quickly filled.
Young & fresh blood was introduced into the band.
Jokke Ponette reinforced the ranks and they moved on to the next chapter of their journey.

“The Final Crossing” was released in 2006.
 
Unfortunately, in November 2006 Rik decided to call it a day and left the band for personal reasons.
Achyronthia was determined to continue the journey with five but...

In July 2007 Nicolas Brackx came, saw and started rehearsals with them as second guitar player!

In Septembre 2007 they had the honour to play on Vélorock with the almighty “Sodom” and “Killer”.

This year they’ve attended the Belgian "Wacken Metal Battle" and won the first price!!!
So juli this year they’ll be playing at Wacken Open Air for the “global” Metal Battle.

Their everlasting aim.. A solid sonic assault!!!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Achyronthia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.