Acid Casuals was a Welsh electronic music, fashion and art collective that featured members of Big Leaves (such as Kevin Tame) and Super Furry Animals (such as Cian Ciaran), together with Llyr Evans (who starred in the film "Twin Town" alongside his brother Rhys Ifans). 

With the name taken from a chapter title in Irvine Welsh's novel "Trainspotting", the collective also ran a fashion label and art gallery. The AC Fashion Division came into life in 1997, when it was launched in Tokyo during Japan Fashion Week. The urban fashion collections - collaborations between AC and designers, photographers and artists - appeared on the cover of NME, were worn by Rhys Ifans and SFA, and quickly became the label for those in the know. An AC shop in Cardiff's Castle Arcade was short lived, but it served as an initial platform for the fashions.

The DIY ethic also extends itself to their art ventures. The AC Capsule Gallery, in Charles Street, Cardiff, showcases local artists. The gallery, which opened in early 2002, features a variety of individual and mixed shows, showcasing paintings, sculptures and installations.

In terms of music, a video filmed in New York, Lexy Funk, saw them walking down Broadway in kilts, as their few available recordings began to make waves in South Wales clubs and elsewhere. And they provided the sounds for the legendary Super Furry Tank, a festival fixture in the summer of 1997.

A limited edition single, Perfect Bitch/GPG, sneaked out in 1997. It was launched, like the fashion label, at Tokyo Fashion Week, after which Mixmag proclaimed them "leaders of the new school".

The follow-up didn't arrive until October 2002, when Novamute released the Acid Casuals' proper debut. The 12" single Filthy Pitch/Code was a fine example of acid bass and classic techno.

A further single, Wa Da Da, was released in June 2005 on London independent label Secret Agent. It was followed in November by the Beach Boys-influenced Bowl Me Over, which mostly jettisoned the electronica in favour of 60s melodicism.

The debut album, Omni, was released in January 2006. That year they embarked on the launch of their club night sOMbOM in Cardiff, leading to an end of year party with Claude VonStroke. They also started their two year long monthly residency at BBC Radio Wales, where as well as their choice flavours of techno and house music they featured label nights, the likes of which included Raum, Pokerflat, Connaisseur, Minus, Kaliber, Made to Play etc.

2007 saw sOMbOM's first Birthday party at Cardiff’s infamous Coal exchange with Green Velvet, Alex Smoke and Jamie Jones making up the line up. 2008 brought Acid Casuals’ residency at London’s Corsica studios with plays alongside Daniel Bell, Phonique, Derrick Carter, Matthias Tanzmann, Octave One as well as taking time out to write new material.

2009 saw their sOMbOM label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Acid+Casuals">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.