Acid Age are a four piece Hyper Thrash band from Northern Ireland influenced by various Thrash, Punk and New Wave of British Heavy Metal bands. The band consists of Jude McIlwaine on and guitar, Eddie Cross on Vocals, Jake Martin on bass and Aran Howe on drums. Though their style is heavily rooted in the typical thrash of the 1980's they do however mix in elements of the New Wave of British Heavy Metal (N.W.O.B.H.M) movement, hardcore punk and even 1950's Rock 'n Roll. They call their style "Hyper Thrash" because it is a reflection of their hyper-active stage antics and furiously fast musical style. Acid Age have played with many notable acts including Gama Bomb, The Dangerfields and Putrefy.

Formed on the 7th of January 2013 by vocalist and guitarist Jude McIlwaine, Acid Age originally took place as a solo recording project (recording one E.P titled "The Cyborg Thrashterpiece") until the addition of drummer Jason Harkness later in the month. By Febuary 2013 Acid Age were a full band adding bass virtuoso Jake Martin. After a raise in interest on the internet as a result of The Cyborg Thrashterpiece E.P Acid Age were quickly signed to Northern Irish based label, "Punkerama Records" (Home to the likes of The Defects, Paranoid Visions and The U.K Subs). Acid Age's debut album (Enter the Zomborg) was released via CD and Digital Download in November 2013. Enter The Zomborg features guest appearances from John Roche the guitarist from GAMA BOMB and Tony Portaro Lead Vocalist and guitarist from WHIPLASH, this gave Acid Age a huge jump forward and has proved to be an iconic achievement as no other thrash metal band has ever had two internationally recognized musicians perform on a debut album. Enter the Zomborg was reissued by South Korean based label "Tachycardia Records" on the 24th of February 2014 featuring 3 bonus tracks from Acid Age's home recorded "TROMA-TIZED E.P" (Which was a self released E.P Acid Age has previously put out as a tribute to the New Jersey based independent film company "TROMA".

Acid Age announced on December 25th (Yes Christmas day)2013 that they were intending to go back into the studio to work on the follow-up to Enter The Zomborg which has been titled as "Drone Shark Ethics" and will feature more guest appearances including Felix Griffin (Ex-D.R.I and BAT) plus production will be handled by Christopher Owens, a radio D.J and gig promoter from Belfast who regularly plays independent underground bands on his radio show "The Death and Resurrection Radio Show" which is on every Sunday night between 08:00 P.M to 10:00 P.M on queensradio.co.uk

Luke Tolcher replaced Jason Harkness as the bands drummer in June 2014..

Jude is endorsed and uses Dominger guitar pickups

Eddie Joined the band on vocals in 2015

Aran replaced Luke on Drums in 2016

"A great representation for the new school of thrash" (Tony Portaro from N.J Thrash legends WHIPLASH)

"Your song Grave Robber is NUTS"
(John Gallagher from New Wave of British Heavy Metal Legends RAVEN)

"Ripping guitar playing"
(Nick Poulos from New Wave of Traditional Metal Kings Volture)

Discography;
-The Cyborg Thrashterpiece (Demo 2013)
-Enter The Zomborg (Full Length Album 2013) (Punkerama Records & Tachycardia Records)
-TROMA-TIZED E.P (Internet Demo 2014)
-Drone Shark Ethics (Full Length Album 2015) (Witches Brew Records)
-Like A Runaway Combine Harvester In A Field Of Crippled Rabbits (Full Length Album 2016) (Witches Brew Records)

https://www.facebook.com/acidagethrash/info <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Acid+Age">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.