There is more than one band called ACID:

(1) An Austrian rock band of the early 70's.
(2) A speed metal band from Belgium, founded in 1980.
(3) A hardcore punk band from Tokyo, Japan and existed from the late 80's to the early 90's
(4) A Japanese rock band founded by Siam Shade's former vocalist, Hideki in 2003 (see ＡＣＩＤ).
(5) A french rapper or band.
(6) A Polish drum & bass DJ.
(7) A Romanian rapper from Brasov.
(8) A psychedelic rock group from San Francisco.
(9) Powerpop band from New Jersey
(10) A hard rock/metal duo from South Carolina.
(11) A visual kei rock band formed in Nagoya, Japan
(12) A YouTuber from Belgium

(1) Acid was an Austrian rock band of the early 70s. It was founded by Herbert Novacek (v, b), Robert Ponger (k, p, Hammond B3) and Rudi Staeger (d). They released a self-titled album in 1974 that was quite popular on Austrian radio. Various personnel changes followed through the decade, including Peter Koller (later with Wolfgang Ambros), Hans Zekar, Robert Zidek and Wolfgang Staribacher, and the band released More Acid and Acid Age.After breaking up in the late 70s, Novacek reformed the band in the 80s for an album called Stress, Volume 1.

(2) Acid was a groundbreaking female-fronted speed metal band from Belgium, founded in 1980. The singer, Kate, was backed by guitarists Donald "Demon" and Peter "Dizzy Lizzy", bassist Pete "T-Bone" and drummer Geert "Anvil". They released the 7" "Hell on Wheels" in 1981 and a self-titled full-length the next year. They released two more albums, Maniac (1983) and Engine Beast (1985), before separating.

(3) Acid was a Hardcore Punk band from Tokyo, Japan and existed from the late 80's to the early 90's.

(4) Acid was a Japanese rock band founded by Siam Shade's former vocalist, Hideki. They started in 2003, after Hideki found enough members and a second singer. Surprisingly, in 2005 he announced that he would be leaving the vocals entirely to Junpeito focus on keyboards. The band consisted of Daisuke, Masamitsu, and Kim on guitars, Sei-ichiro on drums, Yuta on bass, Junpei on vocals, and Hideki on keyboards. They are currently known as Needless Lyrics.

(5) Acid is french rapper or band.

(6) Acid is a Polish drum and bass DJ.

(7) Acid is a Romanian rapper , original from Brasov. He released in 2008 a LP called "Multitudine".

(8) Acid is a psychedelic rock group from San Francisco.

(9) Acid This Jersey band may be tough to Google, but their hard-driving Cheap Trick-meets-The Replacements melodic rock is easy to enjoy. There's also a touch of glam here as well as Strokes-like vocals, and their frontman goes by the name "Special K". What's not to like? source: absolute powerpop blog

(10) Acid is a hard rock/metal duo from South Carolina that started as a high school punk band in 2009. Their one public release is the progressive metal album Patchwork Landscape from 2018, found on their bandcamp page.

(11) ACiD is a visual kei rock band formed in 1997 in Nagoya, Japan. After going through 2 vocalists early into their formation, the band settled with their permanent vocalist, Akito, and released their first demotape, "Mermaid" in November 1997. The band later signed with the prominent visual kei label, Loop Ash, in 1998, and enjoyed a period of popularity until their disbandment in 2001. Today, the band is better known as the first band of bassist tetsu, who would then go on to join MERRY. (see ＡＣｉＤ)

(12) Acid is one of the most popular YouTubers in Belgium. He released one song. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Acid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.