There are more bands using this name:

1) Black Metal band from Kent (UK). Featuring Dave Wharton the infamous Paul Timms. Timms along with others were convicted for causing over £100,000 worth of damage to churches and cemeteries in Tunbridge Wells, clearly influenced by events taking place in Norway around the same time. 

2) Acropolis is an Israeli Extreme-Power metal outfit that was founded under the name AREA 51 in mid-2001 by guitarists Daniel Varfolomeyev and Elad Manor as a quartet including drummer Amir Shaham and The new bassist Max Gringus

After 4 days of activity, the band debuted first time onstage in the Extreme Rock Festival, and expanded it's lineup to a 6-piece group in the following year adding vocalist Dror 'Shoko' Pe'er, guitarist Asaf David and keyboardist Dana Ayalon. Elad ended up handling the bass duties instead of Ran.

In summer 2002, the band performed festivals in Tel-Aviv and Jerusalem with the new lineup, and entered the studio with Eyal Glottman (Eternal Gray, Prey For Nothing) to record a 3 song demo, two of which were released as singles in winter 2003 under the new name - ACROPOLIS.

Despite the attention drawing around the new band, the lineup was disbanded due to army enlistment by the end of 2003.

Elad and Daniel continued their musical activities with THE FADING and ARAFEL respectively, exploring additional styles and creating a strong bond of musical collaborations between the members of these bands.

It wasn't long before the idea of creating the first Israeli power-metal supergroup arised again, when Daniel and vocalist Yochai Davidoff were sketching ideas and concepts for the future band. Finally, by the end of 2005 a single titled "Lead the Wake" was recorded and performed by THE FADING's rhythm section Shaked Furman (drums) and Elad Manor (Bass); Daniel Varfolomeyev (Guitars) with Alex Karlinsky (Keyboards) of ARAFEL, and Yochai Davidoff on the microphone spot.

By 2006, the recording lineup has turned into a full-time active band, and started writing and rehearsing material for a debut release. In January 2007, ACROPOLIS hit the studios to record and produce a 7-track EP.

After an intensive production process in 5 different studios in Israel and abroad, Acropolis is proud to present it's first official release titled "The Aftermath" (2008).

The 23 minutes self-produced EP is mastered by Finnish mastering-guru Mika Jusilla at Finnvox Studios (Helsiki, Finland), and offers 7 tracks,showcasing the bands diverse musicianship and performing abilities, blended in a unique style that blurs the fine line between lush harmony to razor-sharp intensity.
The Aftermath is now available worldwide through Amazon, iTunes, CDbaby, or directly from the band's Myspace website: http://www.acropolismetal.com

3) ACROPOLIS (Житомир) — metal band from Zhitomir (Ukraine)

4) ACROPOLIS — progressive metal from Russia
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Acropolis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.