There are multiple artists with this name:

0) organ-dominated progressive hard rock from Zweibrücken, Germany
1) Streetpunk from Toronto, Canada
2) Melodic Rock/AOR band
3) Hardcore/Metalcore band founded in Teplice, Czech Republic
4) Hardcore Punk band formed in Budapest, Hungary
5) Two-piece acoustic/emo/punk/pop based in Glasgow, Scotland
6) A Japanese Heavy Metal Band
7) A 1960's Garage/Psyche band from Europe (aka The Action)

0) ACTION from Zweibrücken were playing organ-dominated progressive hard rock in the tradition of Deep Purple or the early Uriah Heep. The ideas and their execution are good; the way the singer tries to copy Ian Gillan, however, seems at times a bit artificial. In the summer of 1972, Action recorded three tracks for demo purposes at the Kerston studio. Only in 1997, the recordings by chance caught the attention of the small Dortmund label Very Good Records. The label released them as LP together with a live track in an edition of 500 copies on black and 100 copies on green vinyl. At the end of 2008, Action joined together once more for two professionally recorded gigs.

Line-up/Musicians:
- Otto Nunold / organ
- Charly Fottner / guitar
- Wolfgang Benki / vocals
- Harald Schindler / bass
- Ernest Cadet / drums

1) ACTION is a Canadian Streetpunk band based out of Toronto. They were signed by Punkcore records and released only one album in 2004 which was a Self Titled album. They were influenced by band such as Conflict, The Varukers, Battalion of Saints, etc, with a fresh perspective akin to current European hardcore like Victims, Selfish, filtered through Japanese thrash's precision and delivery. 

After countless lineup changes, tour cancellations, months-long stretches of inactivity, fist-fights, deathreats and such. ACTION geared up for a summer Canadian tour that would be their last and have been been defunct ever since August 2007.


2) A melodic rock/AOR band originally formed in 1985, Action is a long-time concept devised by acclaimed guitarist / songwriter Chip of What Matters, Mars Hill and The Hitmen. The band also features the soaring vocals of other former Mars Hill members Jack Marques (Crossover, Unknown God) and the musical talents of bassist Chris Sutherland, keyboardist Ruben Demello (Crossover, Unknown God), drummer Chris Longo (Project Broken, Dirty Deeds, Hysteria, Promises) with additional drums from Mark Duane (Trendkill, Paradox, Action, Touch, Krankenstein).

As founder and guitarist for the band Action during the mid to late 80’s, Chip shared the stage with national acts such as Quiet Riot, Firehouse, Slaughter, Rough Cutt and Zebra among many others. As the musical landscape quickly changed in the early 90’s, Action split not to be heard from again until he collaborated with singer / songwriter Jack Marques a decade later.

Between bands and life itself, both Chip and Jack had each individually written and recorded a number of outstanding melodic rock tracks over the years which ranged from 80’s rock / metal to more modern adult oriented rock. Each had always been saving these unused gems for some future project; they just weren’t sure what it would be. What is certain, these gems are fresh, melodic power rock - true to its 80's roots while delivering a modern kick! Action is an infusion of Boston meets Journey with touches of Whitesnake and Def Leppard. With this mix, Action delivers what rock fans have been waiting a decade or more for - screaming melodic guitars, soaring vocals, catchy choruses and rockin’ beats.


3) Action was founded in 1998 in Teplice, Czech Republic. After year and half practicing started playing shows. They played a classical NYHC during that time like Madball or Ryker’s. In the end of year 2000 they put out D. I. Y. MCD ACTION "TPHC".

After some time they added more metallic riffs and in 2002 they recorded new material and the Mcd was out on DEADBUTCHER rec. - ACTION "can evil be beautiful…?" After that ACTION toured for 10 days countries like: Germany, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary. They have stand up and raised their flag to show the hardcore scene their uncompromising heavy sound!! The MCD is now completely sold out!!! Action played numerous shows with smaller bands as well as countless shows with heavyweights like Maroon, Hatebreed, Bleeding Through, Born From pain, Shattered Realm, Narziss, Deadlock, Atreyu, 25 Ta Life, Most Precious Blood...just to name few.which can ring the bell. This band feels good in small club as well as on big stage...That´s why they also get opportunity to play famous festivals such us, HELLFIRE FESTIVAL (2003) or SUCK'N' SUMMER FEST (2005) where they were unexpectable one of the best live bands!!!

After a lots of shows in 2004 they found new friends in the band CROWLEY'S PASION and decided to do a split release on Deadbutcher Records. The split CD is called "Assassins of Oblivion". On this split you can describe their music as a tough /metal/moshcore, mix of Arkangel, Hatebreed or All OUt War. Anyway, for a better imagination visit their homepage or download the MP3 from our audio/section. Well, after a long songwriting and production phases their newest full-length CD "Weeping of angels" (Deadbutcher rec. 2005 ) is ready to kick you as well! Because album "Weeping of angels" will blow you away with precise ala "Slayer" guitar riffing and non-compromise heavy mosh parts in the veins of Born From Pain! Trust me, with a new drummer are ACTION more brutal and technical at any time before! The "chemistry" in ACTION is so far the best and with their new style are capable of anything! So, be prepared for their killing live set... when no one will save his ass in kickbox pit!:-)


4) Action was a Hungarian pioneer crossover-hardcore band in the mid-90's. Formed as Sex Action in 1990 in Budapest, Hungary, they first followed the footsteps of The Cult and some glam and dirty rock bands. They were famous for their lyrics, which were dealing mostly with sex. In 1994, they shortened their name to Action, and switched to a more aggressive direction. Lyrics were now about ghetto life, drugs, and everyday violence, and the music was influenced by Biohazard, and the early hardcore-crossover bands. They were among the first bands to play hardcore music in Hungary. 

They have released five albums under the ACTION moniker:

Összeomlás (Downfall) - 1994
Terror - 1995
Sexaction - 1997
A hetedik (The seventh) - 2000
A fehér és a zold (The white and the green) - 2002

After the last record, they split up. They have reformed in 2004 as Sex Action again and they began to play in their early dirty rock/glam style.

5) ACTION are a two-piece acoustic/emo/punk/pop band originally from Inverness, Scotland but now based in Glasgow. They have been playing venues across the city for a couple of years, and are known for their love of playing live. They have performed in a variety of locations, including bar basements, house parties, private shows and open mic nights and give the same energy and effort no matter who is listening. They are also known for their interesting interpertations of unusual covers.

Debut album "Louder Than Words" will be released in March '09 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Action">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.