More than one band share this name:

1. ad ASTRA, russian musical project of Alexander Jd Karelin, guitarist of now-disbanded metalcore band Fourth Dimension. ad ASTRA released one album on December 31th, 2008 named "RVLTN BGNS" ("Revolution Begins"). On seven of nine songs invited vocalists of famous russian bands (such as Stigmata, KOREA, Top-Display!, Fourth Dimension, Jane Air and Плакса) sing. On one track ("Dreams" - "Мечты") A.Karelin sings completely himself.
Official site: http://www.RVLTNBGNS.com


2. Ad Astra - Minimal Synth duo from Wigan, England formed around 1982 supplied the track A&R for the Minimal Electropop compilation L.P.s "Subtle Hints" (Sane Records) and The New Wave complex 7, also the single "Give me the Girl" in  1983.  http://www.myspace.com/560736327

3, Ad Astra is a spanish neoclassical power metal band.

4, Ad Astra is an Australian electronica space rock artist.

5, Ad Astra is a hungarian progressive power metal band. Their first full album is out now: Crust Of Ego.

6, Ad Astra is an Italian electronica band which can be found under the name of Cosmojam...

7, AD ASTRA is an electroindustrial/IDM/EBM/experimental project of Belarusian musician Bes Trefoil, who is more known as mastermind of death/thrash/industrial metal band BARRACUDA and black metal band Medievil.

8 AD Astra is Croatian female vocal ensemble.

AD ASTRA was started in 2001, when Bes went in for different kinds of electronic music and desided to create something in this sphere. Actually, Bes is much more metal, than electronic musician, but his comparative untutoreness in electronical music led to a fairly interesting and original songs' sounding and arrangements.

In 2003 Bes finished first AD ASTRA album called "Cyber Spirit". It was released in Minsk by Vladislav Buben' label "Lost World Productions". AD ASTRA participated in various electronic and industrial CD- and DVD-compilations and appeared in radioshows' playlists.

When free from work with BARRACUDA and Medievil, Bes continues to work on the new stuff for AD ASTRA. So in not far future we may hear the next album...
http://www.myspace.com/adastraproject

9, Black metal band from Thessaloniki, Makedonia, Greece.
Ad Astra has risen in the unholy spring of 2002, at Thessaloniki with guitarist Stellar Magus and vocalist Streamer. Very soon Chaos Hierophant joined the band with his storming kind of drumming. Some time later Morgoth set up to perform the bass. With this line-up Ad Astra wrote, performed and recorded their first band-titled promo/demo. Then some line-up changes took place when Morgoth found to perform the keyboards and Grim was there to be the session bassist. When Morgoth temporary left the band due to personal matters, Orestis (Dawn of Division) took his place over the keyboards and set his majestic form to the band. “For Those..” recording comes to verify what was already foreboded, some months later. Showing scorn to humanity, Ad Astra is by its nature a desolate type of art and attitude. Painfully conceived music and lyrics that mirror part of our lives constitute the Ad Astra concept. Black metal cannot by its own, portray our musical intentions so we name it "Supreme Sidereal Art". ... And that is our will ... To the Stars!!!
Discography:
- 2004 - Promo 2004 (demo)
- 2005 - For Those About To Leave This World Behind (demo)
Official site: http://www.the-adastra.cjb.net/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ad+Astra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.