Ad Hominem is a black metal project formed in France in 1998, and is now evolving in Italy by Kaiser Wodhanaz, who still is the sole human actively involved in the project, although session members are sometimes involved both in studio recordings and live events.

Contrary to popular belief, Ad Hominem is not a NSBM band. Kaiser Wodhanaz has stated this on many occasions including on Ad Hominem's official Myspace: "Ad Hominem has strictly nothing to deal with either politics or religion, but stands against monotheism and all dogmas responsible for the enslavement of man." Song names like "Planet ZOG" (ZOG stands for "Zionist Occupation Goverment" which is a common right extremist's conspiracy theory), "Arbeit macht tot" (based on "Arbeit macht frei!" or "The Psalmody of Sub-Humans" strongly leave the impression that statements as such are pretty weak and implausible. Furthermore it doesn't seem like a co-incidence that Ad Hominem and Adolf Hitler share the same acronym (which's use is very common in the neo-nazi scene).

The current line-up is:
Kaiser Wodhanaz - All Instruments, Vocals, Live Bass (Dead?, F.A.M.A.S., Non Essence Genesis)
A.K. - Guitars
D. Nacht - Guitars
Rust - Drums

The first demo Omnes ad Unum was released in 2000 and this quickly granted Ad Hominem interest from record labels. Ad Hominem quickly released a split and then his first full-length album in 2002 entitled Planet Zog - The End.

In 2003 the album A New Race For A New World came out. The album strongly increased Ad Hominem's reputation in the black metal scene. In 2004 Ad Hominem joined Avantgarde Music and the result is the 2005 album, Climax of hatred.

Ad Hominem released their latest album in 2009, Dictator - A Monument of Glory under the Darker Than Black label.

Kaiser Wodhanaz is also involved in bands like Non Essence Genesis and NearDeath. Also previously in The Call, Eradication and Antithesis.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ad+Hominem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.