Ad Lunam was founded in autumn 2003 by Luna's and Toni's bizarre idea to play heavy music high and loud. Toni's previously made so called songs were re-composed and they were also home-recorded. just in case!

When the business was getting this "serious", the other members (which were in fact all missing) were under a heavy search. After an enormous investigations and wondering, training place in a nice location was found. Small, but anyway it is a place to play. After this Ad Lunam had their first singer Taze (who left the band in the early days), drummer Jukkis and bassman Enkeli. A little later Mutkis joined as a second guitar player.

Because of the job opportunity, Jukkis left the band at spring 2004 and the drummer seat was filled by Antti. Mutkis also left at the late summer 2004, because the maniac went to study something and he had no time to play anymore. Keyboard player Matti was finally found at autumn 2004, but he went to Poland for an exchange student for couple of months (luckily we got him back at the beginning of year 2005).

At this point we hit the Jackpot, excellent training place was found from Lehtisaari with micro waves, freezers and other important stuff like that. Soon after that Antti left the band. Replacement guitarist Heavy-Dude Jakke, who moved from Varkaus to Helsinki, also joined Ad Lunam. From a friends friend (actually sister's uncle's cousin's father's grandchild's friend but anyway) the new drummer Tomppa was found.

After our first gig, we had a little talk with the rest of the band what should we do with Matti, who was actually going to be in Island for some time. We decided to find a new guy to play keyboards. There was no point for training with him, if we wanted to have some gigs during the summer 2005. Luckily we found a true Knight (Roland Warrior) Eero. At this point we made our first demo. Sounds weren't very good, but quite ok for the first demo. Eero played for a while and then he got a great opportunity to play with Gamma Ray. After that we found Chris to play keys. Few gigs were made and we were training some new songs, then Jakke told he can't play anymore, because his job takes too much time and also Chris quit the band about same reason. New guitarist was found in march -06, Samppa (also known from Born Of Thorns).

Training hard and having fun is the basic idea of Ad Lunam. New songs are composed once in a while.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ad+Lunam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.