Adagio! (pronounced "A-dee-gee-o") stands for A Definition of Ambition, Goals, Interest and Organization! is a hip-hop duo that consists of emcee Rayme Supreme and producer Big Cuz’n. They first met in 1992 at the Adelphi University in Long Island, NY. Both were avid fans of rap music and they both majored in Film and Television production, ultimately graduating in 1996.

Rayme Supreme hailing from Philadelphia, PA and Big Cuz’n hailing from Mount Vernon, NY, caught their big musical break in 1995. A mutual friend who was also a student at their university, Breeze Brewin’ of the Juggaknots, introduced them to Bobbito.

He listened to a couple of demos and decided to pass them along to Columbia Records. The demos contained several tracks that were recorded while they were still students. The track that was scheduled to be highlighted on a NY underground demo complication album was "Boy and Girl Tale",  but unfortunately that album was never released.

However, through the connection with Bobbito and Stretch they were able to appear at, and on, many of the thriving NY underground radio shows in the mid to late 90′s which aired their tracks. Eventually more and more people began to catch their ears on Adagio and it didn’t take long until their first independent release took place. Which was on EMO Recordings in 1996 and featured the single "The Obvious Joint"/ "Ass & Benefits". 

In the same year they appeared together with Juggaknots and Wisdom on the track "All Star Jam". With Juggaknots they also recorded the track "Who Makes It Hot". Adagio! released two more 12" singles and a EP on EMO/SOM Recordings in 1997, "The Break", 12" single, "Everybody", 12" single and an EP entitled New York To Philly The EP on Som Recordings. 

The duo were also able to secure a press and distribute deal through Fat Beats Records in 1997 and release several other projects. The last release they put out was in 2002. But that’s about to change now when Adagio! opens up their vault for the first time in over a decade, and Heavy Jewelz Records presents The Obvious Archives Pt. 1, which consists of some of the unreleased tracks that were recorded during the mid to late 90′s. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adagio%21">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.