ADAMAS project starts in April 2007 from an idea of Luigi Castellani (vocals) folowiong a meeting with his brother Eugenio Castellani (drummer). Few days later, the guitar players Mattia Celesti and Alessandro Burelli joined the band. The Adamas’ line up was full with arrival of the bass player Marco Mori and Daniele Quarantini (keyboards). But after a short period of playing covers, Marco and Daniele left the band. With the new bass player Alessandro Patrizi and the new keyboards player Francesco Tili, the guys start to rearrange some songs “The Cradle of Judas” and “Into the Fit” (songs written by the old band of Luigi and Alessandro called "Zigdmimma" - 1997): the sound is raw and heavily influenced by the rising Thrash Metal scene. During the first months of 2008 the band writes two new song “Revenge best served cold” and “Baghdad, singin’ in the raid”. These tracks will form the debut EP “Exarco”. By now they've begun to play live at parties (with their friends Firbholg, Steel Crow and Honos) and at metal fests like Metallattivo (CZ) with Uranium 235 e Dishuman. At the end of 2008 the "Adamas" decided to collaborate with Nomadism Records in order to release the "The Dark Tower" box set with all Exarco songs and "Baghdad singin' in the raid" videoclip. The songs have been aired since the 5th December 2008 during the broadcast "Italian Invasion Asylum" conducted by DJ Sicko on the Wild Life Radio (Florida - U.S.A.). 

In 2010 they released the first Full Lenght "Evil All Its" (2010). The album was supported by "BPA Records" and distributed by "Andromeda Rocks distribution" . Mixed by Andy La Rocque of King Diamond.
The album release was followed by a UK Tour in 2011 and a Greek Tour in 2012 .

In 2011 four members left the band leaving only Luigi and Eugenio. The members was replaced by Federico Fondacci (guitar) and Alessando Manini (bass)... to be continued!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adamas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.