Formed in London in 2003 by Stephen Carey (formerly of Ireland's This Burning Effigy) together with vocalist John Stone (former manager of bands such as Vendemmian and Complicity). After an initial flurry of activity during which the band supported bands such as Red Lorry Yellow Lorry and All About Eve, they decided to cocoon themselves in the studio to write and record their first album, with Lee-Anne Burgess joining them on bass in 2006. Owing to Steve's other musical commitments ( NFD, Eden House ) this was a lengthy process.

In September 2008 the 3 piece finally released their long awaited debut studio album 'Sleepwalking', which was well received by the UK press.

'Kerrang!' magazine
"Having spent nearly five years honing their art before introducing it to a studio you'd expect Adoration to be the complete article and you'd certainly not be disappointed. This is rich, mesmerising music to catch your attention in quieter moments. Possessed of immense depth, it's full of texture and quality, amounting to a genuine beauty that is born of fine songwriting and attention to detail. Each of the nine tracks brings a new focus, 'Slowmotion' a whirling merry-go-round that contrasts with the enchanting 'Same As It Ever Was', a song that pulses on a teetering, unforgettable hook. Allow these deathlike lullabies to take you on a trip." - Steve Beebee

'Total Guitar' magazine
"Miss the ice-cold metal of the Sisters Of Mercy and The Mission? Your next best bet is Adoration. Epic soundscapes recall the best of the 80s goth scene along with more than a touch of The Cure. Plangent guitars and big choruses are all over Sleepwalking: you can almost smell the dry ice." - Joel McIver

What other people think:

"I love this kind of sophisticated darkish pop, so much so that were I not fortunate enough to be getting a complimentary copy, I'd be buying it!" - Julianne Regan (All About Eve)

"Perfectly designed for it's genre and wonderfully produced, these are songs to set sail to by night. Admirers of The Cure, Cocteau Twins & The Mission would be foolish to miss this record." - Miles Hunt (The Wonder Stuff)

"Rich, dark, textural and emotive." - Roger O'Donnell (formerly of The Cure)

Adoration followed their debut album with a live performance at Dingwalls, introducing new members as part of the live line up.  They were joined by Simon Rippin on drums (Nefilim/NFD), Rob Leydon (Voices Of Masada) and Chris Milden (Lahannya/NFD) on guitars.  Now a strong 6 piece line up, they spent the next couple of years playing live and appeared at both UK and European festivals supporting bands such as The Cranes, Chameleons Vox, The Birthday Massacre and Faith & The Muse, also headlining their own gig at the Camden Underworld.

They released a download only single called 'Sense' in 2011, and split in 2012, playing their last ever gig on April 21st at the O2 Islington Academy.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adoration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.