Adora is the name of 4 different artists.

1. ADORA (아도라), also known as Park Soo Hyun (박수현) was born September 25th, 1997 in South Korea. She is a South Korean soloist under AURA Entertainment. She used to be an in-house producer and songwriter for BigHit Entertainment but she left in 2021. She made her solo debut on November 5th, 2021 with ‘MAKE U DANCE’, featuring Eunha of VIVIZ.

2. Staring in early 2010 Adora takes foot underground in the Chicago music scene consisting of drummer Chris Eckstrum, vocalist Stormie Radtke, and Keith Pink on piano. The band has been writing and growing as a three-piece putting out classy grooves with catchy hooks. Casey Bates, Ed Littman, Matt Dalton, and Chiodos ex-vocalist Craig Owens, are re-known engineers that took producing roles of the bands self titled EP. Adora will be debuting live in fall of 2010.
myspace: http://www.myspace.com/adoraband#ixzz0zAoBu88i
facebook: http://www.facebook.com/Adoraband
Website: http://www.adoraband.com


3. Adora Formed in 2003, Adora started as a 4 piece band with Matt Cohen (bass),Alex Roberts (guitar), Reid Haymond (guitar), and Martin Sanchez (drums), just an average everyday garage band from Orange County, CA. The four members grew up as a softer more rock kind of sound music under a different name. Soon after picking up the name "Adora", Alex Grunbaum (vocals) joined in. Everything started there. With amazing support from friends and family, Adora's name continues to grow everyday. After playing about a year and a half full of shows all around, Adora signed with Harvest Earth Records in early 2005.

Over Summer 2005, Adora completed their first Full Length Album 'Safeguard the Helpless'. The album drops in early October and is for fans of The Agony Scene, Darkest Hour, and Still Remains. With no intentions of stopping, Adora continues to grow with their music and hopes to make their 1st record a complete success.

4. Adora is also an unsigned duo from Finland, with members Lumimarja (vocals) and Päivyt (guitars, background vocals), founded in 2004. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adora">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.