Since 2004, Adrana has drawn its inspiration at the heart of the valley of the Loire and its castles. Having a passion for heroic-fantasy, the quintet designs its personal and fantastic universe, at the crossroads of music, literature and theatre. The story of Adrana brings us to the struggle of a young warrior princess to conquer her fallen realm through a fascinating musical mix midway between metal and opera's epic fantasy world where one's is conducted by Adrana's soprano Anaé, surrounded by the band. At the keyboard Grhyll, at the guitar Ludo, at the bass Emeric and at the drums Max. Among the diversity of their influences, a unique musical creation appears, combining progressive metal, heavy metal and classical music, enhanced by different registers of voice of the words of the witches, vampires and elves of Adrana's metal opera.
In 2006, the demo The Tower Of Frozen Tears obtained a promising success in the Région Centre. Finalist of Tours' jumps in May 2007, then presented on the show Backstage on TV Tours in July 2007, Adrana captured and attracted an increasingly enthusiastic audience. The first album of Adrana, in June 2008, marks a new point in the career of the band, as it introduces its artistic originality in a extravagant Opera Metal style. Entitled Perturbatio, this musical creation, marks the opening of Adrana's saga and though it was recorded in 17 days in a actual studio, it is a professional production quality. This album didn't and does not let the medias indifferent. Broadcasted on twenty radios and chronicled in fifty magazines and webzines, Perturbatio has been congratulated many times by French and international medias. The European magazine Metallian indicates that Adrana is “a serious hope in the genre that really has a future”, The Nouvelle République (A regional newspaper) calls their singer Anaé a “diva”, and the webzine Leprozy says that Adrana “introduces here THE opera singer that the French Metal had to have.”

Meanwhile, Adrana multiplied the live performances throughout France and participated in various concerts and festivals in cities such as Strasbourg, Lyon, Nantes, Brest, Le Mans… With about fifty shows beside them, Adrana shared the stage with Patrick Rondat, the renowned guitarist, Renaud Hantson, the former singer of Starmania and Notre Dame de Paris, because it is on stage that the band truly develops its full potential. Dressed up in medieval costumes, the five musicians design their musical universe in a theatrical way to catch the viewers in the sensitive and intriguing atmosphere of the myths and legends of the princess Adrana. Close to her audience, Anaée breaks with pleasure the “fourth wall” to come and sing in the middle of them and transforms the concert into a magical, enchanting and friendly place.

In the fall 2010, Adrana recorded its second complete album in Drudenhaus studio, the studio of the former keyboardist of Anorexia Nervosa Neb Xort, a well-known studio in the metal world. Entitled The Ancient Realms, this album is about the crusade of the princess through lands of fire and ice, and should be accompanied by the release of the first volume of the literary adventures of Adrana in 2011..


More information at http://www.adrana.com! and http://www.myspace.com/adrana ! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adrana">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.