The tale of the Adrenaline Kings begins in the spring of 2002 with the convergence of guitarist Matthias Schneider and drummer Florian Hartl, two experienced musicians dedicated to hard rock – “80s-style.” 

A native of the Great State of Maine, the 27-year-old Austro-American axeman moved to Vienna in the winter of 2001 with the goal of establishing the ultimate rock band – right here in the heart of Europe. Immersing himself in the Viennese music scene, he soon realized the Austrian capital was the ideal place to form a hard rock band and began to put together a project with two talented local musicians. Just when he thought he had found “his” band, however, Matthias one day received a call from a drummer whose opinions on music mirrored his own. The drummer’s name was Florian Hartl. The two quickly arranged to meet, and were pleased to discover that they possessed practically identical taste in rock and roll, as well as a remarkably similar musical vision. Just a few days later, they met at a local rehearsal room, where Matthias showed Florian some of the songs he had been working on. After jamming for only a few minutes, the two musicians could already clearly see that the chemistry was there – and the Adrenaline Kings were born. 

Florian had been working on song material too, so the band would have no shortage of original music. They even had a strategy for conquering the music world. Now all that was missing was the rest of the band. For the second guitar slot, they decided on Florian’s long-time friend and comrade in music, the colorful Pauli Unterweger. A consummate showman, Pauli had handled guitar duties in Florian’s previous band Bloody Stew, distinguishing himself as a maestro of his instrument. His gritty, blues-based style perfectly complemented Matthias’s technical prowess. 

Unwilling to settle for anything less than the perfect frontman, the newly formed Adrenaline Kings spent the coming months trying out a string of vocalists. Finally – almost one year after the band was officially founded – they picked the charismatic Bernhard Högl as their singer. Bernhard fit ideally into Florian’s and Matthias’s vision of the ultimate rock and roll band, winning them over not just with his unique and powerful voice, but also through his affable personality. 

Now only a bass player was needed to complete the lineup. The search was complicated by a shortage of qualified bassists in the St. Pölten area, the Adrenaline Kings’ base of operations in Lower Austria. Ultimately the band decided on Pauli’s younger brother Hanni, a reliable player who completed the Kings’ sound with solid yet energetic basslines. 

In the fall of 2003 Hanni left to focus on his own project, The Fried Freak Orchestra. A replacement was quickly found in Alex Jilg, a technically proficient Vienna-born bassist. Alex debuted with the Kings on October 4 at the Underground Club in St. Pölten – and the classic lineup of the Adrenaline Kings was complete.

taken from http://www.adrenalinekings.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/adrenaline+kings">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.