Adrenicide was formed in January 2002 by guitarist N. Evaristo. The band's first line-up consisted of Nuno Evaristo (guitar/bass/backing vocals) and N. Armstrong (vocals) two old school metal-heads, on a mission to make pure 80's fast thrash /punk. Their first demo "Impropaganda" was released in January 2003 and in 2004 the band released "All Went Black" - an album with full on aggression and much superior in production, it spawned classics such as: "Death From Above", "Murder Machine", and the crowds favourite "All Went Black". In April of 2005 the EP - "We Are Not  Afraid" was released.

On a steady diet of beer, band set about writting and producing the second full-length album - "Drunk With Power" released in November 2006. The global metal underground scene was very positive prompting “Lords of Metal” webzine to say: “thrashers, punks, moshers & crossover freaks pay attention now, because I’m pretty sure Adrenicide will fuck you up…”. "A+” reviews from all over the world, were hailing Adrenicide as true possessors of the 80’s vibe: “Neo-zine” saying: “I haven’t heard anything that made me want to dominate the circle/pit like this in a very long time”. "E-Metal Reviews" continued, exclaiming: “Goddamn-It feels like I just got my ass handed to me in the pit”. Bigger zines also started to take notice. "Zero Tolerance Magazine" stating: “Fantastic fun and pretty damn good as well. This is a real rush full of short, sharp, adrenaline injections…”

In 2007, with the help of drummer and friend N. Skidmore the band released “Raging Full On”. With lyrics covering topics like : war, violence, injustice & murder to alcoholism, pollution, religion etc...this album was a turn point on the bands career.
Blake MacReady (Nick Skidmore) became more of a permanent fixture in the band and joined full time in May 2008. Natural Born Thrashers” was released in October 2008. And on December the same year the band enter the studio to record the first full-length video, for the song "Primitive Logic..." - with Blake MacReady sitting his ass down firmly on the drum-stool. And in March 2009 the psychos from Slough began recording the next album; "Kill". "Kill" was also re-released in a different package for the central and south American market via EBM Records (Mexico) where Adrenicide's brand of thrash/crossover is striking a mighty chord with the thrashers over there.

In october 2009 the band had the pleasure head-ache of trying to pick out tracks for the "compilation/best of" album titled "Pioneers in The Land of the Mad" released by Denim & Leather Records (U.K). It includes old favourites/classics like "All Went Black", "Ward 13", "Form A Circle", "Drown In Beer", "Justice?","Celebrate The Blade", "Primitive Logic..." and many more. There are 26 tracks in total, and over an hour of face ripping, moshin' and beer drinkin' music.

In June 2010 Neil Armstrong parted ways with Adrenicide due to unresolved issues and commitment with the band. N. Evaristo took over the vocal duties. "War Begs No Mercy" was released by Slaney Records (Ireland) in November 2010 and in 2011 they released "Power Shift". A new album is to be released mid 2012 on EBM Records.
http://www.adrenicide.com/
https://myspace.com/adrenicide1
https://twitter.com/NunoAdrenicide
https://www.youtube.com/user/metalbeermaniac





 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adrenicide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.