Adrian & Adrian, two guys from Zurich started off with music just
like everyone else by trying several instruments and scratching on
grandfather’s turntable, nothing special about that. Both were born
in the mid 80’s when the techno and house community was rising to
the top.

90’s dance, hip-hop & house stuff influenced one of them. The other
half was more into melodic sounds and Europe based techno. On the
road as solo artists they met in 2008, found mutual connection with
their interpretations and became dj & production partners.

Harmony between Dj-ing, performance and immediate contact with the
people makes a good to a "better" dj. The self-proclaimed brothers
have a sensible feeling for the Clubheads, dance-a-holics and all
the others, for which "music" means attitude not just a word. They
love to mix up different styles to make their sets intensive,
diversified and unique. Almost poetic, comparable with an exciting
story.

Their first Release on OFF Recordings got immediately strong
feedbacks from Toni Rios, Reboot, Ray Okpara, Brother’s Vibe & many
more.

Adriatique are also featured on the highly anticipated second
Release from Diynamic’s Sublabel 2DIY4. Their groovy new-
interpretation from Feist – Honey, Honey is considered as one of the
summer tracks 2011. Already supported by Osunlade, Soulclap, James
Teej, Dop, Anja Schneider, Dj Wild, Deetron, Adam Port, Maya Jane
Coles and many more followed. This was their kick-off to be also
part of 2DIY4’s motherlabel Diynamic Music.

In addition to their musical-work & busy club-schedule Adriatique
have their monthly based event series „Moving Around Us“ in Zurich
which has grown to a meeting point for international guests, local
talent, music & art...

Stay tuned for upcoming Releases on some of the most influential
Imprints of the current electronic music scene.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adriatique">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.