Being a newcomer to the music scene can be overwhelming for most, but for an artist like Adrian Marcel/A.M. (formerly known as Marcel Williams), the obstacles and occurrences already accomplished only continue to drive his determination on becoming an appreciated entertainer. Hailing from the San Francisco Bay Area, Adrian Marcel separates himself from what R&B has become and strives to bring back what traditional rhythm and blues is. His goal is to inspire today’s youth to know and experience what true R&B sounds like. Adrian feels like vocalists back in the day had only their voices, no outlandish tricks or antics, just themselves and a microphone. Thus, he is looking to bring class back to R&B music. A.M. is like no other when he performs. On stage he makes the audience understand that they are listening to a story, a plot, a time-line or a specific moment in his life, not just a song. He truly puts on a full fledged show. Being a singer, songwriter, composer, performer and natural comedian helps him incorporate different dynamics into his shows. A.M. draws his influence from the likes of Jackie Wilson, Frankie Lyman, David Ruffin, Carl Thomas, Tank, and Maxwell.



 The true beginning of the musical aspect in his life was when he got accepted into the Oakland school of the Arts in 2003. There he studied vocal, piano and drama. He stared in the schools leading plays, The Wiz, Footloose and The Wild Party. In 2006 Adrian toured with the school concert choir to Italy. There they performed for 2 weeks at different venues in Florence and Venice for crowds of 700 people. During the years 2005-2007 he studied at the University of California in the Young Musicians Program (YMP) with a full scholarship. During his junior year of high school he was given a 1 year scholarship to Berkelee College of Music in Boston upon his high school graduation. His high school years clearly solidifies his love and commitment to music. In 2006 A.M. opened at the Concord Pavilion in Concord California for Tina Marie’s tour and in 2008 A.M. opened for Patrice Rushen and Roberta Flack at the Oakland Museum “Experience on the Green”. This was the start of Adrian Marcel's solo career as he would soon team with Jaime Hawkins to begin work on his debut album. He most recently teamed with ready artist and blood brother Dahrio Wonder on their musical production called “The Pleasures of Love Show” which successfully enjoyed a sellout of 2 shows at Yoshi’s in Oakland California; As well as the Oakland Metro Theater and Q's Lounge.

On his debut album entitled “Music & Moon Trips Vol.1-A Lover’s Welcome” A.M. introduces a work that showcases someone beyond his years. Simply put, Ad loves the thought of Love and expresses that in every song he writes and performs. His lyrics are uniquely different, not the same words you hear everyday on the radio. He sings about situations that you feel, understand and can relate to. He loves where creating wonderful melodies can take him. “A Lover’s Welcome” is the journey from the preparation of loving someone, the vulnerable stage of loving them, trials, change, and the growth of love all delivered on tracks that captivate every emotion you can think of. A.M. does music with a passion. It’s what he is, what makes him and how he makes his best decisions. Sparking an emotion in him causes him to share this in his writing, and his composing.


 A.M.’s music is tasteful and sweet, ready for anyone to listen to. The richness of his voice makes it easy for him to comfortably blend with any genre of music or track he sings on. A.M. is a go-getter, the live-wire with a confident seductiveness, a role player and does not want to put a stamp on his music to a specific audience. Adrian is embarking on a journey that he is humbly and fully prepared to take on, appreciate and welcome. Adrian Marcel promises to take and deepen his audiences understanding of great R&B music.


A.M. has worked hard in the last two years. He moved to Atlanta, Georgia to work with L7, a music company that has invested time and energy into supporting him to his next phase! Raphael Saadiq has taken a strong interest in Adrian Marcel.

Under the guidance of Raphael Saadiq, Adrian has released two mixtapes. 2013 " 7 Days Of Weak" and 2014 "Weak After Next". Adrian Marcel's forthcoming album, "#GMFU (Got Me Fucked Up)," which features his single "2 AM," is slated for a February 2015 release. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Adrian+Marcel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.