facebook bandcamp
Formed In: November 2008
Hometown Location: Half Moon Bay CA
Genre: Blackened Death Metal/Groove/Thrash Metal

Band Lineup
Justin Meyer
Taylor Nichols
Jake Meyer

About
Welcome to the official Aeglyss band page! Aeglyss has just finished tracking their debut album - An Ill-formed Faith. Prepare for some tasty metal. Mortal, the sing off of the album, is available for download via the Support Aeglyss button below!
Mission

Mission
Aeglyss strives to bring a new form of musicianship to an era plagued by those who are less talented yet reap the benefits of commercial exploitation. Our music is brining a new view of music and what we as people value in our society.

Biography
Aeglyss is a name that no music fan should ever forget. Formed in the hills of the costal regions of the SF Bay area during the latter part of 2009, Aeglyss quickly grew and developed into an entity all its own. From the time that Aeglyss played its first show in a small club deep in alameda, no more than 6 months had passed until Aeglyss was on the road, striking out to LA to play at the world famous Whisky A Go-Go. Shortly after, the young band landed an opportunity opening for the national act and home town hero Death Angle on a few stops of their Relentless Revolution tour. The bands work ethic and 'never-say-never' attitude was the driving force behind their early success, as most shows and touring expenses were covered out of pocket as well through donations the band landed by contacting any and all people necessary to help them fund their endeavors. Aeglyss even even went as far as soliciting door-to-door to raise funds. 

2010 saw the release of their first demo "Dark Reign", a self recorded, produced and distributed effort by the band. Dark Reign was well received throughout the metal community, creating a buzz that Aeglyss is a force to be reckoned with. Since then Aeglyss made their second venture into the studio in the spring 2011 to begin tracking the 'Sunset Fades' EP that was set to release during the summer of 2011. Midway into the recording process many of the members found themselves in the midst of dealing with a major transition period that would inevitable separate the band, and thus the project was lost.

2012 is the dawn of a new era for Aeglyss, as the members are in the studio recording the bands first full length album 'An Ill-formed Faith'. Excitement is building in the Aeglyss camp, as finally all of their long hours of hard work, long hauls and sleepless nights will be fully represented in their first full length album, a record that holds the true heart and soul of Aeglyss.

Description
A powerhouse of sonic force made up of riff based music that will challenge all in its path, Aeglyss grasps the essence of brute force and aggression to make up their ravenous sound. Yet, the musicianship does not fall short. Aeglyss focuses foremost on songwriting, creating complementary harmonies and epic solos, birthing a form of musical conquest that leaves the listener calling for more! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aeglyss">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.