A dark metal / gothic metal / black metal band from Belarus.

The idea of the band emerged in the year 1998. Kniaz De Monshade, the founder and permanent leader of Aeon Noctis, defined the main concept of the band in a following manner: to create the music that reflects Darkness in all her majesty and beauty. This music should be extremely gloom and heavy but at the same time filled with dark mysterious atmosphere and imbued with depressive philosophy of Decadence.
At the same year the first try was made to summon musicians for implementation of this idea. But it had no success as well as some more tries within the next 3 years. Those failures where caused by the fact that no musician was found who held the same views and was ready to work seriously for their implementation. So most of the time the band existed as one-man project of Kniaz De Monshade, who composed all the music and lyric.

In February 2002 Aldagil joint Kniaz De Monshade as a bas-player and in March the last by now living line-up of the band was gathered. At the same time the present name of the band, Aeon Noctis, was adopted (“aeon noctis” can be translated from Latin as the “era of dusk”). All the spring and summer were spent in intense rehearsals. But by August it became clear that the band couldn't move ahead because professional level of some musicians was very low and they made no serious efforts to improve it. So in autumn rehearsals stopped and Aeon Noctis fell in lethargy. In December 2002, while other members of the band were missing, Kniaz De Monshade and Aldagil recorded the first promo track of Aeon Noctis entitled fi]Sword of Time. On this record Aldagil performed except for bas also all vocals. Kniaz De Monshade except for recording all guitars made also all keyboards arrangements.

In the begining of the year 2003, Aeon Noctis started rehersals again with new drummer Michail Vasilkov. But replacement of drummer didn’t solve all the problems. Because of different reasons (studies, work etc.) some members of the band couldn’t pay to Aeon Noctis any more enough time and attention. As no new musicians to replace them could have been found at that time, De Monshade and Aldagil decided to dismiss the band and to turn Aeon Noctis into their studio project. The rest of the year was spent to become familiar with musical software and to program keyboards & drums.

Finally in March – April 2004 the first ful-time album of Aeon Noctis was recorded. It is entitled “As Times of Eclipse Come...” This CD contains 7 tracks, composed in different time which present different sides of Aeon Noctis’ musical concept. It is rather difficult to define clearly the musical style of the band. Music of Aeon Noctis includes some features of such genres as black metal, symphonic black metal, neoclassical, doom metal and dark ambient. But members of the band prefer to define the genre of their music simply as dark metal. They consider this definition expresses the main idea of Aeon Noctis. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aeon+Noctis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.