UK based progressive metallers AEON ZEN - a rising force in the progressive metal scene - return in 2014 with EPHEMERA. 

Formed in 2008 around founding member, composer and multi-instrumentalist Rich Hinks, Aeon Zen released their debut album, ‘A Mind’s Portrait’, in 2009, quickly followed up by 2010’s ‘The Face of The Unknown’. Continuing from strength to strength, Aeon Zen brought their own brand of creative, complex, melodic progressive metal to fans all over the world, along with their highly energized live shows, most significantly in 2011, when Devin Townsend tapped Aeon Zen as main support for the Devin Townsend Project’s 12-nation European tour that year.
 
Over the years, Aeon Zen, in addition to the vocals of Andi Kravljaca and Rich Hinks, have enlisted the aid of guest performers such as Atle Petersen (solo artist, Above Symmetry), Nils K Rue (Pagan’s Mind), Michael Eriksen (Circus Maximus), Elyes Bouchoucha (Myrath), Jem Godfrey (Frost*), Andreas Novak (Mind’s Eye), and Jonny Tatum (Eumeria), each adding his own biological and technical distinctiveness to the band’s own.
 
2013 saw the release of the band’s third album, ‘Enigma’. A departure from previous records, this concept album displayed a band continuing to grow and mature musically while building a solid and increasing fanbase, as well as moving on from early influences like of Dream Theater, Metallica and Opeth, to creating their own unique sound and identity.
 
Late 2013 saw the release of their Self-Portrait EP, the first release to showcase the stand-alone dual vocal attack of Kravljaca and Hinks in 4 tracks re-imagining the band's début album to represent the bands musical and stylistic progression.
 
This year, Aeon Zen reveal their most ambitious effort to date, showcasing the band at their hitherto most progressive, and most aggressive. Produced, mixed, and mastered by the band’s own Rich Hinks, the new album showcases the band’s new line-up with the addition of Alistair Bell and Tom Green. ‘EPHEMERA’ delivers on the potential of one of the UK’s most promising progressive metal acts, and picks up, musically and thematically, where ‘Enigma’ left off. Continuing the story, ‘EPHEMERA’ closes the narrative loop with the all-encompassing story of a world reborn. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aeon+Zen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.