Aeons of Eclipse came into existence August 2004 in Glasgow, Kentucky. The concept of the band was to create the darkest and fastest music possible. The original lineup of Scott Briggs (drums), Derek Boles, (guitar, bass), Ryan Meadows (vocals) and Ryan Morkulven (guitar, keys) quickly set out to record the demo "From Dark Distance" very soon after the band's conception. The sound featured a very stripped down and raw sound of what was to come, occasionally even being quite melodic while retaining a very distinct sense of darkness. Ryan Morkulven soon left the band only to return in 2007. To fill the gaps, the band enlisted the help of their good friend Adam Schroer (guitar) and Derek's younger brother Dusty Boles (bass) and eventually master shredder Andre Phelps upon Adam's exit. While each member stayed for only a short while, this was to be the only period in which the band ever had a full live lineup as the band had never had a live bassist before or since Dusty's membership. Writing was in full swing to create what would become the debut full length album "The Hour of Desolation." The music was much faster and far more brutal than the band ever thought possible. Ryan Meadows was replaced by throat mangler Scott Slinker in time for the recording of the album. Upon release, the album garnered some very positive reviews that inspired and motivated the band to do even better as writing began for a second full length in summer 2009. However, this period saw yet more lineup changes. Ryan Morkulven had left the band again and Scott Slinker had moved on as well. After a short search Erik Rothfuss (vocals) and Andy Webber (guitar) joined the band and helped write and record the band's strongest material to date. "The Parasite" was fully realized showing further maturation of the band's sound into a much darker and heavier entity. The band sadly grew apart upon completion of the album's recording in 2012 with members moving far away and becoming involved in other projects and activities. The album however shall see a long overdue posthumous release sometime during summer 2013.

www.facebook.com/aeonsofeclipse
www.myspace.com/aeonsofeclipse
www.twitter.com/aeonsofeclipse
http://aeonsofeclipse.bigcartel.com
http://aeonsofeclipse.bandcamp.com
www.cdbaby.com/aeonsofeclipse
www.bandcamp.com/aeonsofeclipse
www.aeonsofeclipse.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aeons+of+Eclipse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.