There are several artists known as Aeroplane:


1) Vito de Luca:
http://www.myspace.com/aeroplanemusiclove
http://www.aeroplanemusic.be

You fly with Aeroplane once, you don't forget it. In just three years, the Italian-Belgian duo have established themselves as party-starting DJs, remixers du jour -with their spacious cosmic-disco re-rerubs of Grace Jones (William's Blood), Friendly Fires (Paris) and Sebastien Tellier (Kilometer) - and, via their own piano-sprinkled melancholic beauties like Caramellas, leaders of the nu-disco and Balearica scene. So Aeroplane's debut album, We Can't Fly, arrives with sky-high hopes. Now that our appetites have been whetted by those brief, tantalising excursions, what delights await us on their maiden long-haul flight?

Plenty, it turns out. Recorded in Toulouse, Paris, London and Los Angeles, We Can't Fly (co-produced by Bertrand Burgalat), is a grown up, dazzlingly accomplished record that showcases not just a passion for stately, soulful disco and early 80s electronica, but a lush and bittersweet set of influences that stretch from Abba and film soundtracks to Floyd, the Stones and the Italian crooners that Vito Deluca's mama played him in his Brussels youth.

Aeroplane is now a one-man operation, Vito having amicably parted company with his bandmate Stephen Fasano. Not that we should be alarmed. "There are worse things in life!" says Vito. "Stephen's gonna do music on his own, I'm gonna do music on my own. I'm the studio guy, he was more the DJ so when the music became more important, the more I was alone in the studio. The future of Aeroplane was this album and I wrote it and played every instrument." The two are still on good terms: "He's picking me up tomorrow at the airport. I'm probably going to produce the stuff he writes in the future and I'm not going to have a word to say about it!"

Flying solo has given Vito the chance to flex his classically trained musical muscles: "We've been put in the dance music category but I'm a songwriter, that's what I know how to do. I wanted to go back to proper pop music, not being forced to do nine-minute tracks so the DJ can mix in before and after." Aeroplane have never been at the mercy of traditional bpms, and being free of "the dancefloor pressure" has given Vito additional license to slow things down and look around. "I'm at my best at 105bpm," he says. "That's the speed where I make the best music. You can do more, there's more groove, more feeling."

He's not kidding. Take We Can't Fly, the languid, showstopping anthem-to-be with which Aeroplane kicked off their landmark 500th Radio 1 Essential Mix at Circus in Liverpool earlier this year. Laying gospel harmonies over Compass Point-era Grace Jones reggae, blissed-out Rimini keyboards and kiddie vocal samples, it's handsome proof that dancability and musicality don't have to be mutully exclusive. It's going to sound rapturous live, when Vito and an expanded on-stage line-up play Aeroplane's first dates later this year.



2) French rock band:
http://www.myspace.com/aeroplanesmpa


3) Indie rock from UK:
http://www.myspace.com/aeroplanerock
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aeroplane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.