There are two metal bands with the name Aeternitas.

1) 
The gothic metal project Aeternitas was founded in 1999 in Lübeck, Germany, to create a modern requiem. This requiem should contain the original Latin lyrics and a musically mix from classic elements to Metal.
Beside the musically work, a show concept was created, to perform the requiem as a "Gothic Theatre".
In 2001 Aeternitas began the creation of their second album called "La Danse Macabre".

Then in 2004 Aeternitas began the work on something entirely new, crossing some borders by writing a gothic musical by the name of "Rappacinis Tochter".Based on Nathaniel Hawthorne's gothic novel "Rappacnini's Daughter" the story is about young and desperate Giovanni who was forced to enroll at Padua university. He accidentally discovers his neighbour's beautiful daughter and falls in love. The mysterious girl has a dark secret and she lives hidden in the house of her father Dr. Rappacini. But Giovanni is not willing to give up and asks his fatherly professor Baglioni for help...

The world premiere was staged in 2008 in Hamburg, Germany and - amongst other places - was performed every day at the Schauspielhaus during the Wave Gotik Treffen 2009 in Leipzig, Germany.

www.aeternitas.info
www.myspace.com/00aeternitas00
www.rappacini.de

current members:
Alma Mathar (vocals), Oliver Bandmann (vocals), Alexander Hunzinger (vocals), Anja Hunzinger(keyboards), Daniel T. Lentz (guitars), Frank Mölk (drums), Stefan Baltzer (bass)

guests for "Rappacinis Tochter":
Sandra M. Heinzelmann : spoken word (Lisabetta), stage directing
Thomas Friedrichs: vocals (Baglioni)
Jennifer Kudling: vocals (Beatrice)
Maxi Gürth: vocals (Beatrice)
Daniel Scholz: vocals (Giovanni)
Carsten Hille: vocals (Rappacini)
Jens Raygrotzki: vocals (Baglioni)

former members:
Birger Hinz (vocals), Doria Theis (vocals), Martin Hertz (bass), Mirko Lipke (guitar), Thomas Teschner (guitar)


2)
The symphonic death metal band Aeternitas was founded in 2008 in Brisbane, Australia. They released their debut EP "Holocaust of Reason" in 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aeternitas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.