The name “Aetherium” is used for 2 different artists:

1. Llewellyn composes and produces music for relaxation and healing under the Aetherium name. The music is ambient/instrumental. Chris Puleston was the guest instrumentalist for Aetherium on the Chakra Gold album.

2. A black metal group.
Taken from BornInBlood.co.uk

Aetherium came to life in a pub at the end of 1994. Joël, Jan and Gert got the idea to start up a band. Jan and Gert didn’t play any instrument. Joël had played bass in Inferior (RIP). Anyway, they wanted to make music without compromises.

Early 1995 they could convince Christel to join the band. Around Easter 1995 Aetherium was a fact with Christel and Gert on guitar, Jan on drums and Joël on bass and vocals.

And that’s how our story begins. After a while of trying to find other musicians (keyboards, violin, ...), Gert changed to keyboards, so that we could look for another guitarist. We found him in Bas. When he joined the band, we had 4 songs and we still didn’t play any covers, staying true to our original plan.

Around Autumn 1997 we played our first gig (Metal at the Attic, Turnhout). In the meantime, Joël and Jan had started a project with Luciver (Witchsmeller Pursuivant) where also Bie played. Aetherium decided to replace Bas with Bie. In this line-up we have done several gigs.

In Spring 1998 we made a rehearsal tape of which we sold about 100 pieces. On this tape, you can hear 4 tracks in the form of death/doom/black metal.

In the Summer of 1998 we wanted to start writing new songs in order to be able to play gigs as soon as possible with new material. Because of this pressure, our drummer didn’t enjoy it as much anymore and somewhere in 1999, it was decided to look for a new drummer. After having tried several, we found Dave (ex-Avatar) in the Summer of 2000.

Meanwhile, several new songs had been written. Somewhere in 2001 we were able to play gigs again. We played two, but Christel decided to leave Aetherium. Despite of this loss, we decided to look for a new guitarist. Many came, but left. Our commercial prospections were bad, our music too complex (not standard enough?), not enough time. Despite all that we tried to keep our heads up, which resulted in a gig in May 2002.

At the end of 2002, we finally found a guitarist: Sven. A bit later, Gert decided to leave the band. Around this period, Bie was pregnant with her first child and she took pregnancy leave until Spring/Summer 2003. After Sven knew the songs and Bie was back in business, we started planning our new promo-CD. It was recorded in Autumn 2003.

We played several gigs in 2004 /2005 and in Spring 2004 this site was created in order to promote the band better. In that period our brains started working again and new material was written. This writing is progressing slowly as we’re playing gigs now and then. Spring 2005 Sven decided to leave the band. Fairly soon afterwards Dave introduced guitarist Jannick, his bandmate in Slecht.

After years of persuading we could finally convince Kristel to come and do vocals for us in the Autumn of 2005. After a while our new songs were ready and the new members were ready to play live. Late Summer of 2006 we started recording the new stuff, which resulted in our promo-CD ‘Circle with the End’. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aetherium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.