There are multiple artists named Affinity:

1) is the band made up of Linda Hoyle (vocals), Lynton Naiff (keyboards, percussion), Mike Jopp (guitars, percussion), Mo Foster (basses, percussion) and Grant Serpell (drums, percussion).  Back in 1970 they released a great album simply called  Affinity.  It has been re-released on CD containing 8 bonus tracks (the original CD release only had a couple of the bonus tracks).  It now contains all of Affinity's studio output.  A subsequent CD has been released that contains live tracks recorded as an instrumental quartet (without Hoyle). 

2) is an Finnish metal band from Turku, Finland. It was formed by the singer/guitarist Sami Leinonen, Drummer Markus Vikainen and Lead Guitarist Jaska Mattila. Later Eetu Tapper joined the band as an Bass player. Affinity's music is based on thrash metal but it has lots of influences for example from progressive and death metal. The first demo Defect was released in February 2008. In summer 2008 Affinity decided to change bass player to Topi Huovinen. The new EP Changes will be out propably in fall 2008

3) is the artist name for Warren Doris, a musician and producer responsible for a handful of disco/funk 12" releases in the 1980s. His most famous releases were "Don't Go Away" and "Pick Me Up [Rock Me Non-Stop]"

4) is an alias of Kyle A. Ward, whose music appears in the In The Groove and Pump Pro rhythm games.

5) is John Affinity, a breaks producer/DJ currently based in London.

6) is a defunct hardcore/metalcore band from Maple Grove, MN that existed from 1998-2001. Vocalist Jason Gleason went on to record with Further Seems Forever. Other Former members can be found in Dead To Fall, Coma Eternal, and pornography (adult actor Vin Vericose)

7) is Affinity, a chillstep/electronic producer called Daniel Marchbank, from New Zealand, whom is also one half of dream-pop duo BANK LAND with Sarah Ryland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Affinity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.