There are 2 bands to have recorded under the name of Afflicted.

1. In 1988 - 1995, Afflicted was a death metal band from Stockholm, Sweden. 

2. From the year 2000, a Hard Rock / Alternative / Industrial band named Afflicted have produced 4 albums since using the same name.


Afflicted ( 1988 - 1995 )

They formed in 1988 and their music is best described as Technical Death Metal, however, there are obvious traits of their past from Thrash Metal influences from their Defiance days and a more Swedish sound and feel with their previous name Afflicted Convulsion. It is all combined into a great mix of sounds, fast and furious yet brilliantly sludgy at times.

The band released a lot of demos during the early 90's with a split also released with other Swedish hopefuls at the time on Nuclear Blast including Hypocrisy). They later, did a debut album called "Prodigal Sun" in 1992 by Nuclear Blast. After, lengthy promotion campaign by the then unknown label the album did pretty well in the scene. However, Nuclear's rooster had more sales on other releases and decided to cut them out of the loop.

This did not put off the band as they released another album "Dawn of Glory" in 1995 through Massacre Records who were also getting a grip of business. The band shortly split after their second album due to members Graaf and Segebaden forming Defender, this time in the power metal direction.

However, they did release a couple of singles through a split with Relapse Records in 2005 but this became of nothing.

Afflicted ( since 2000 )

London (UK) based Hard Rock band with an industrial edge. Afflicted have been creating music for over a decade. They have found their own unique sound, appealing to a wide variety of listeners. 

Afflicted have been through many musical transitions. From Rock, to Hard Alternative, from Industrial to just plain Metal. Even in their broad spectrum of sub-genres, you’ll know you’re listening to Afflicted. Notice the heavy driving rhythms, powerful vocals and structured melodies; all contributing to Afflicted's signature sound. The band write, record and produce all of their own material, giving them full creative freedom to fine tune their sound. 

Afflicted have found their music worldwide on radio, American TV Shows and more. They have achieved many number one singles from SoundClick and other online music charts, countless reviewers pick awards from garageband.com and much acclaim from the press.

NOTE: To avoid further confusion, the london based band are also on this page: http://www.last.fm/music/Afflicted+-+www.afflicted1.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Afflicted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.