At a time where Death Metal scene in France is ruled by brutal, technical, modern sounding bands, 3 die hard and long time Metal heads Herostratos (vocals & lyrics), Grief (rhythm guitar & music) and JP (drums) decided to give birth to AFFLICTION GATE in Spring 2006 in order to play Death Metal as it used to be in its glorious era, back in the late 80's and early 90's and thus taking inspirations from early masterpieces of UNLEASHED, ASPHYX, GRAVE, MASSACRE, BOLT THROWER, MORGOTH, BENEDICTION, DISMEMBER, MANTAS / DEATH etc... Then, Cyphera joined the band as bassist. The rehearsal sessions and writing process started quickly but, 3 months later, she had to move to England for professional reasons. Due to other personal priorities, the band didn’t have the opportunity to work together for several months until Damien entered the band as lead guitarist in late June 2007. Finally, after facing another period of unactivity and lots of fucking delay therefore, the band recorded their first EP titled "Severance (Dead to this World)" during August 2008. Featuring 3 songs of unpolished, old school Death Metal with intros and outro. AFFLICTION GATE was helped by their friend Wayne (vocalist / bassist of the 80’s Thrash worshippers HUNGRY JOHNNY) to handle the bass duties but he also took care about the whole recording and mix of the EP. This time, Damien was not able to take part to the recording and there was no possibility to postpone this last session so, the serial shredder Franck (a friend of Wayne) replaced him in a hurry and he did an extremely killer job especially if you take in consideration that he joined without learning nor even hearing the songs before ! Then, the band began to spread promo CDR copies of the EP in order to introduce the AG name in the Underground and to find a deal as well. Until now, the answer from people in the scene around the world has been incredible as this stuff exclusively got positive or excellent reviews & feedbacks ! Some labels have shown interest to release the EP and finally it's FORGOTTEN WISDOM Prod (France) that did it on MCD format in December 2008. Since late October 2008, new line up problems occured and they had to part ways with Damien. Viv replaced him but, a couple of months later, he also left due to both personal and musical reasons. From now on, AFFLICTION GATE will officially and exclusively remain an unholy trinity (Herostratos, JP and Grief) with the help of session members for both bass and lead guitar duties. AFFLICTION GATE is now working on their debut album that will be recorded this Summer. The album will be released by NO COLOURS records, home to bands such as INTESTINE BAALISM!

Current Members
Grief - Rhythm Guitar
JP - Drums
Herostratos - Vocals

Live & Session Members
Wayne - Bass (Hungry Johnny)
Bobby - Lead Guitar (Hungry Johnny) (Live only)
Franck - Lead Guitar (Studio only)

Past Members
Guitars:
Damien
Viv (In Memorium)
Bass:
Cyphera <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Affliction+Gate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.