African Head Charge, is a British psychedelic dub reggae band, founded in 1980 by percussionist Bonjo I (Bonjo Iyanbinghi Noah). The group released most of its albums on Adrian Sherwood's label, On-U Sound, and the music has been named Sherwoods vision of a psychedelic Africa. Their debute studio album My Life in a Hole in the Ground was released 1981 and their latest, Voodoo of The Godsent 2011. The group has had a shifting line up, including Prisoner, Crocodile, Junior Moses, Sunny Akpan, Skip McDonald, and Jah Wobble,  
- - - 

Arguably the most popular act to emerge from Adrian Sherwood's highly respected On-U Sound Records, African Head Charge created a series of critically acclaimed albums dedicated to further experiments in their label boss, mentor, and producer’s patented style of psychedelic dub. 

African Head Charge was founded in 1980 by percussionist Bonjo I (full name: Bonjo Iyanbinghi Noah), who surrounded himself with an ever-shifting cast of supporting characters (including colorfully named henchmen like Prisoner, Crocodile, Junior Moses and Sunny Akpan), and captained their debut, My Life in a Hole in the Ground to almost immediate international acclaim. Three more albums: ‘82’s Environmental Studies, ‘83’s Drastic Season, and ‘86’s Off the Beaten Track – followed in due course, and quickly grew African Head Charge’s fan base, regardless of their staunch refusal to perform live throughout this time period. Then again, it could be argued that the band’s intensely studio-created, hyper-mixed, and often abstract ‘psychey dub’ compositions weren’t at all ideal for on-stage reproduction. In any case, African Head Charge eventually did concede to go out on tour; then enjoyed an extended break before reconvening to work on a 1991 comeback album entitled Songs of Praise. 

Since then, the group has continued to add to their already rich legacy with new albums (In Pursuit of Shashamane Land arrived in ‘93, Akwaaba two years later), remix sets, singles, and compilations, but not...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/African+Head+Charge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.