There is more than one artist with this name:

1. After the Fall is a rock band from Sydney, New South Wales and formed in 2000. From the Central Coast of New South Wales, the band members are Ben Windsor (vocals), Andrew Atkins, Matthew Gore (bass) and Mark Warner (guitar). Popular songs include “Mirror Mirror” and “The Fighter”. The band have played at festivals such as Homebake, The Falls, Splendour in the Grass and Livid. They currently have four albums to date.

2. After the Fall (CT) - Progressive rock band from Connecticut formed in the 1980's. The band released a few albums exclusively on cassette which were re-issued on CD as a compilation titled Before... in the late 90's. They released three more albums In a Safe Place (1998), The Living Drum (2001) and kNOwleDGE in 2005 before going on hiatus. After the Fall regrouped in 2011 after being invited to perform at the inaugural year of the OhioProg progressive rock festival to be held in 2012.

3. After the Fall (NY) - Melodic Hardcore from Albany, NY since 2000. 2 full lengths recorded at Bill Stevenson’s studio THE BLASTING ROOM (descendents, rise against, less than jake) and also a few 7 inches and EP’s. After the Fall recently released FORT ORANGE on cd/lp and are currently on tour in support. COLLAR CITY is a new 3 song 7” released Jan 5 2010 on MIGHTIER THAN SWORD RECORDS.
if you want to avoid other ATF's just go to:
http://www.myspace.com/afterthefall518

4. After the Fall (NE) - Alternative Rock Band from Omaha, NE officially since 2005. Recorded two full lengths: “We Invented A World” and “You Don’t Have to Sleep To Dream” recorded at Enamel studios and mastered by Alan Douches (Mastodon, A Day to remember) due to release Early 2010. Main Influences include The Used, Madina Lake, Anberlin, Taking back Sunday among many others.

5. After the Fall (IL) - Pop Punk/Emo band from Dixon, IL who released the album, Rumor Has It in 2004. The album includes the songs Ex-Girlfriend, Rooftops, and Missing Teeth on the Bathroom Floor. The band disbanded shortly after the release and most members now can be found in the band Kirkland.

6. After the Fall is also a melodic hardcore / post hardcore band from Corpus Christi, TX. They released an album, "Texas Roulette" in 2002. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/After+the+Fall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.