There are multiple artists named After Dusk: 1) A Greek gothic rock band. 2) A Greek metal band.

1) After Dusk is a gothic rock band deeply influenced by the sound of legendary bands in the genre like The Sisters Of Mercy and Fields Of The Nephilm, carries on in the same tradition while adding some new and personal elements.
The band was formed in autumn of 2004 by two goth rockers, John Ven and John "Preacherman_DF" K., as a result of a long-year activity in the specific genre. By March 2005 Akis L., a charismatic singer, was added to their ranks. Under the guidance of their producer, the experienced Bob Katsionis, After Dusk begun working on their debut album. A part of that music material can be heard in "Primal Memorandum - demo CD", released in December 2005.
November 2007: the final part in the creation of the album (the artwork) has been completed. It will be titled "End Of Our Days".  October 2013: the full album "End Of Our Days" is released by "Gothic Music Records"
August 2013: A special edited version of "The Seas Of Infinity" (appropriately named R'lyeh Edit) is included in the compilation "This Is Gothic Rock: Vol. I" by Gothic Music Records

Line-up:
John Ven - guitars, programming
Akis L. - vocals, guitars
John "Preacherman_DF" K. - programming, drums

2) After Dusk is a heavy metal band from Athens - Greece founded in 1999. Played concerts all over Athens in venues and school festivals. Little else has happened until 2004, when they started to work on their first demo album “Senses of Dusk” which was finished in early 2005.
They instantly started to work on their second album “The witch’s pact” which was finished early in 2006. It contained 10 metal dynamites and continues to give people a good head banging until this day. Also they produced a music video for the song “Overspeed”.
In 2008, they finished their third album entitled “Hybris”, which sounds like concrete cracking from an earthquake! Here are some of the album’s reviews: “After Dusk creates this rarely seen musical variety. Awesome album!!” METAL REVOLUTION and "After Dusk are probably proof indeed that pure heavy metal can exist..." METAL TEAM UK
Hybris was released worldwide by Casket music in 2009.  Also they had some serious airplay from metal shows all over the globe (Usa, UK, Spain, Greece and more) and made a video for the song "Unborn soul".
 In 2010 they recorded a song called "Bad woman" for free downloading. Since then, the song is available along with 2011 re-recorded versions of "Overspeed" and "Prison" from "The witch's pact" album.
 
Line-up :
Paminos - Voice
Bill - Guitar
Theodore - Organ & Keyboards
Constantine - Drums
George - Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/After+Dusk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.