At least three bands have gone by the name Afterimage.

1. A short lived California Post-Punk band who kicked boots with the likes of Savage Republic and Suburban Lawns. They released a 7" and 12" in 1981.

2. An underground band from Flint, Michigan. It featured Mark Allen (Smiling Sacrifice, Political Silence) on drums. He joined this band in Ann Arbor while attending U of M. The group released one album, Pangea, in 1989.

3. A Metal band from the 2000's: Like the visual phenomenon, Afterimage presents a new perspective on what has become expected from young metal bands. "The key element that stands out about Afterimage is their ability to write creative, heavier songs, that are catchy, moving, and original. There is nothing typical about the band, right down to the shoes on their feet," says editor and founder of Uprise Magazine, Dave Darr. With the lyrical boldness of Living Sacrifice and an appetite for innovation and diversity, these young musicians stand ready for the opportunities that are sure to come their way.

In 2003, Afterimage was founded by guitarist Dan Gleason. A few failed attempts to assemble a band on his own led him to recruit the help of his younger brother Mike Gleason on vocals and cousin Justin Swanson on bass. Afterimage later completed their lineup with the addition of Wes Sherwood on drums and James LoGalbo on guitar. Determined to properly showcase their ability and potential, Afterimage decided to record an EP in their home studio.

Through six months of flooded basements, a broken Pro Tools unit, and unintentionally lost drum tracks, Afterimage persisted; they recorded, mixed, mastered and released Codex: Triumph in the Eschaton. Soon after, they were invited to play on the Sanctuary Stage at Cornerstone Festival Illinois in 2007. Afterimage maintains a dynamic presence on the internet, with over 167,000 plays and 25,400 downloads on Purevolume.com alone.

The forthcoming demo brings Afterimage to a new level of song-writing maturity. With a resolute desire to be successful in the music business, they have crafted songs that are marketable to a wide audience without losing the overwhelming passion coming directly from these young musicians’ hearts. The goal of Afterimage is not solely to produce high caliber music, but also to impact everyone they encounter: personally, relationally, and spiritually.

Current Line-up:

Mike Gleason - Vocals
Dan Gleason - Guitar
James LoGalbo - Guitar
Wes Sherwood- Drums
Justin Swanson - Bass  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Afterimage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.