Afu-Ra is a Hip hop artist from New York City. Afu, born Aaron Phillip, is a devout student of the Martial arts, as well as Chess. He entered the Hip Hop scene as a member of the Gang Starr Foundation, alongside rappers like Jeru the Damaja, Big Shug and Group Home. 

His first appearance was on Jeru the Damaja's classic 1994 album The Sun Rises in the East, on the song "Mental Stamina". He made another appearance on Jeru's sophomore album Wrath of the Math, on the track "Physical Stamina", in 1996. Afu's debut single "Whirlwind Thru Cities" was released in 1998, the song reached the Top 20 on Billboard's Hot Rap Singles chart. In 1999, he released another single, "Defeat b/w Mortal Kombat".

 His anticipated debut album, Body of the Life Force, was released in October 2000. The album featured production from some of Hip Hop's finest, including DJ Premier, DJ Muggs, True Master and Da Beatminerz. Guests included Wu-Tang Clan's GZA/Genius and Masta Killa, M.O.P., Ky-Mani Marley and the Cocoa Brovaz. "Whirlwind Thru Cities", "Defeat" and "Mortal Kombat" were included here, as well as other popular songs "Equality", "Big Acts, Little Acts" and "D&D Soundclash". Afu released his sophomore effort Life Force Radio in May 2002, featuring production from DJ Premier, Curt Cazal, True Master, Easy Mo Bee, Needlez, Domingo and Ayatollah. Guests included Hip Hop legends Guru, Big Daddy Kane, RZA as well as R&B star Teena Marie. 

In 2004, he released a compilation album titled Afu-Ra presents Perverted Monks. He returned with another album in 2005, State of the Arts. DJ Premier returned once again to produce the track "Sucka Free". Wu-Tang's Masta Killa appeared on the song "Livin' Like Dat", and underground favorite Royce da 5'9" apppeared on "Pusha". Afu was working on another album, which was prepped for a 2007 release, but it has not appeared to date. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Afu-Ra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.