There are multiple artists with the name Against The Grain.

1. Against The Grain was a Punk-Hardcore band that had started in the mid 80's from MV /San Juan Capistrano along with other locals such as U.T.I, Violation, Hangover, Bored to Death, F.R.I., Virulence, Symbolism Of Belligerency.
Originally a 3 Piece Band, They went on Tour and were the first out of the area to get some higher profile gigs. They scored a record deal & recorded, but the record company went Bankrupt before the album was ever released - The Test Pressing for this Album was Lost and never Found. They released their own cassette which was a live, raw sounding 2 track "LOST IN A MAZE" and were also on the O.C. compilation Album "O.C.'s Trail of Destruction" as well as other low budget DIY compilation cassettes. R.I.P Jimmy Rosenbaum - he was the roots of everything that started out of SJC & the SJP's. We had our own little Punk World in SJC, We were way behind the Orange Curtain and we were out of the HB spotlight. Everything we did was for ourselves and everyone had that DO IT YOURSELF attitude - Form your Own Band, Make your Own Gigs, Make your own Fliers , throw your own parties. No Attitudes, just good ol' drunken fun.

2.. ATG ( Against the Grain) is a 4 piece band out of The Motor City.. They are a Speed Rock band blazing through the US with their brand of Gear-shifting Balls to the Wall music that incorporates all things heavy from Punk, Rock n roll, Doom and thrash culminated together for one huge sound of a rock n roll musical speed-ball. Putting rock music at the forefront, and leaving behind any pretentious gimmick to the side ATG plans on being being heard. After just starting in 2009 they have spread their brand of intense rock and roll across the US with many tours, and show no sign of slowing down. 8 tours, and over 100 shows a year. http://againstthegrain-atg.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Against+the+Grain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.