Agatus is a black metal band that formed in Athens, Greece 1991 by Eskarth the Dark One (lead vocals, guitars, bass, keyboards) who was soon joined by his brother Archon Vorskaath. Both are also members of the band Zemial which is more Vorskaath's project, while Agatus would be Eskarth's. 

Rehearsal tape in 1992 was the first, unofficial recording. In 1993 their debut demo "Night Of The Dark Ages" was recorded at the Molon Lave studio in Athens. The demo had three songs in the traditional Hellenic black metal style. In early 1994 Eskarth and Vorskaath were joined by Prince Korthnage of Erevos on guitars and vocals and with this line-up they recorded their first full-lenght album in May at the well-known Storm Studio with George Zaharopoulos (Magus Wampyr Daoloth of Necromantia). Gothmog of Thou Art Lord and Mortify provided backing vocals to the song "Spirits from the Depths of the Earth." The album had ten songs in atmospheric and epic vein, most of the music was written by Eskarth while Korthnage co-wrote two songs with him and provided one of his own. Agatus released two songs of the album as the "Black Moon" promo tape prior to the album's release by Hypervorea/Sub Terra Records. A bootleg version of the album was released by No Colours Records without the band's permission. No Colours version has a black and white cover art, different tracklisting and the 1993 demo and a promo track as bonus.

Prince Korthnage left Agatus soon after the album was recorded, concentrating on Erevos. Eskarth and Vorskaath relocated to Adelaide, Australia. In 1996 they recorded two songs at Soundhouse Studio in Adelaide for the "Rite Of Metamorphosis" 7"EP, released in 1997. Next release was the second full-lenght album "The Weaving Fates", recorded at the Mixmasters Studio in Adelaide. The album features a top-notch analogue production and the song-writing takes influences from the early 90s extreme metal as well while carrying the epic, Hellenic feel. The album was released by Iron Pegasus records of Germany. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Agatus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.