2003In July, Ludwig Walter (“Lucke“, Vocals and Rhythm-Guitar, at that time still Drummer in the Band Gatecrusher), Andreas Weichslgartner (“Weix”, Bass) and Robert Müller (“Rob”, Lead- Guitar, also member of Gatecrusher) founded “Epilepticum” with the intention to play old school death metal. Until own songs were written, which didn’t take very long, various songs from Unleashed and Obituary were covered. At that time, still with compuer drums. After some time, in the end of the year, the post of the drummer could be filled for a short time, but already in the first weeks of the new year, this decision was shown as a mistake and therefore, the band and the drummer went their own ways again. 

Line-Up in the end of 2003:
Lucke – Vocals & Rhythm-Guitar
Weix – Bass
Rob – Lead-Guitar 

2004 In the following time, Epilepticum concentrated on finding a drummer. However, this search was ill- omened and therefore, the seat of the drummer stays empty, after some more failed attempts. Only a short time later, in March, Epilepticum is set aside and the members dedicate themselves other band projects. 

Currently musically otherwise engaged, Lucke still worked on new songs for the band, since the momentary pause did not mean the end of the band for him. In this passive phase begins a significant change for Epilepticum. Therefore, the first two songs (“die letzte Schrift” and “Age of Carnage”) that have been created during that time, slowly form the style that tags the band today: Black Death Metal. 

As the year ends, the unpreventable happens. In winter 2004 Lucke and Weix decide to revive the band to transform the new stuff together. This happens chained to diverse alterations. Rob cannot overtake the Lead- Guitar but in Philipp Girke (Phyl, at that time still band member in “One more Day”) a new and dignified displacement was found. Furthermore Bastian Fersch takes over the Rhythm- Guitar and Lucke concentrates on the vocals. Finally the name of the band is changed to match the new style. Epilepticum changes to AGE OF CARNAGE. 

Line-Up in the end of 2004:
Lucke – Vocals
Phyl – Lead-Guitar
Basti – Rhythm-Guitar
Weix - Bass

2005After a short lean period, since Age Of Carnage begins, where Epilepticum ended ( the search for a perfect drummer and rehearsals with recorded drums), Matthias Neumann appears. The search for the fitting ass for the stool is completed. Besides some new songs, which were perfected only in few rehearsals, a new cover was practiced with “Withstand The Fall Of Time” (Immortal). Neither own nor covered songs survived out of the “Epilepticum- Era”.

In the beginning of September, Age of Carnage gives its Live- Debut on the “Metal gegen Krebs” festival in the Bavarian Forest (with Brainstorm, Dew- Scented, Disillusion, Graveworm,…). However, this gig is the first and last in that team composition. Shortly afterwards, in November, the band parts from Basti because of personal and musical causes and Lucke takes over the Rhythm- Guitar again. Already in December the first gig follows in this setting. 

Line- Up in the end of 2005 to mid 2008:
Lucke – Vocals & Rhythm-Guitar
Phyl – Lead-Guitar
Weix- Bass
Matthias – Drums

2006In February 2006 the first Demo is recorded. It is named “… and the red rivers will flow again” and enfolds 6 songs. “The Awakening” and “Seremonia” are written by Ex-Guitarist Rob. 

In the mid of the year, in June, the first gig abroad follows on the Eternal Hate Festival in the Czech Republic, where the Demo, which still hasn’t come out, was supported by some pre- releases. The final release is, with unintended delay, on November 10th in Zwiesel, where the release party takes place with the gig there. 

2007Immediately after the recording of the demo in the last year, new songs rise quickly, which display step by step the musical development of the band. On the Walpurgis Metal Days in April (with Unleashed, Ensiferum, One Man Army, Suidkara, …) the band presents a foretaste of their album “Blackrain City” which is recorded between March and August in Tirschenreuth and Munich. 

Also the first song („die letzte Schrift“), which emerged under the banner “Age Of Carnage” and was not put on the demo, is, as a sort of flashback, on the Debut- Album “Blackrain City”. 

The release of the album takes exactly one year after the release of the demo place, on November 10th 2007, at the gig of the Kelheimer Death Metal Massacre. 

2008After a few gigs from january to may, the band takes a little break due to the stay abroad of vocalist Lucke, which lastet a few month. Later, in july, lead-guitarist Philipp Girke left the band due to musical reasons. A quick replacement was found with Sebastian Kister, who recorded the promo-songs “Gabriel” and “The Breaking Wheel” with Age of Carnage in november and had his live-debut at the Munich Death Fest in the same month. 

Line-Up summer 2008 until now:
Lucke – Vocals & Rhythm-Guitar
Sebastian – Lead-Guitar
Weix- Bass
Matthias – Drums

http://www.ageofcarnage.net
http://www.myspace.com/ageofcarnage <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Age+of+Carnage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.