Age of Ruin was formed in Washington, D.C. in 1998. Age of Ruin has been decribed as a group which mixes melodious elements of Scandinavian metal with American hardcore punk. With release in 1998 of a demo of records, Age of Ruin began to act on a regular basis with live concerts on one stage both with national, and with European a hardcore/metalcore groups, such as: In Flames, Dillinger Escape Plan, ZAO, Bane, Saves the Day, Hatebreed and many other bands.

In 2000 the group released their debut self-released album Black Sands of the Hourglass. By 2002 they had released their sophmore album Autumn Lanterns, released on Tribunal Records. The album Autumn Lanterns has brought to group a maturity and with the arrival of second guitarist Bryan Kerlej the group's sound has been considerably improved. In the summer of 2002 group already structure from five person and new sounding with rounds goes all from Canada up to Florida with Tribunal Records and groups Hyde and Facedown. The summer then was added still with rounds on Virginia Beach and Washington DC Vans Warped Tour. In the end of 2002, Age of Ruin came home and began to record new EP an album with producer Ken Oldenom (Damnation AD, Battery, Better Than A Thousand) on the Baltimore-based DFF Records, consisting of 6 songs. The album let out in April, 2003 EP The Longest Winters Woes has shown, that the group has achieved significant successes in a writing of songs, the composition and record of music. Age of Ruin have shown true processing an original sound. After record EP of an album The Longest Winters Woes, summer of 2003 Age of Ruin have gone to round with group Eulogy then a number of not so pleasant events has followed. From group send away Patrick Ouens, Chris Fleming and Derick Kozerki.Then the old friend to the remained participants of group Dzho Sheibel has been taken in group in a role of the new bass player, on a place of the drummer Kolin Kerkz (from state of Maryland playing Hardcore/Metal/Doom outfit Haddonfield) has come and Ben Svan (from group Samadhi) has joined group as the new vocalist. After disorder in 2003, Age of Ruin with new structure have returned to studio with Ken Oldenom and have started record of their debut album The Tides of Tragedy. On creation and record of a new album year has left, but it costed that, The Tides of Tragedy very brightly shows continuous development and improvement in processing a sound of group Age of Ruin in which each element of fate, mosh and glam is expressed up to a limit. Be assured, that Age of Ruin will inform up to you surprising melodious brutallity an album The Tides of Tragedy. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Age+of+Ruin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.