Agent Blue were an alternative rock band from Stoke-on-Trent, England. Their song "Something Else" is on the soundtrack of the game  FlatOut. Their song "Snowhill" is on the soundtrack of the game  Burnout Paradise.

"Something Else" has also been used on various BBC TV shows such as Blue Peter and most frequently Top Gear.[citation needed] The band themselves starred in the opening scenes of TV series Mayo playing the same track.

Their song "Sex Drugs and Rocks Through Your Window" was featured in an episode of the Sky One programme Bones.

However, the band lost a great deal of momentum after the delayed release of their debut LP A Stolen Honda Vision which was not released for almost two years after its recording.

In 2007, Agent Blue decided to split up and released this statement on their website and Myspace page:
"After much thought and debate within the band, we've decided that Agent Blue has reached the end of the road! We've had an amazing time over the last 5 years or so, but after calum (bass) left last November, we realised quickily that we couldnt carry on any longer, as Agent Blue were 5 different people, different influences, different styles etc and would never have worked as Agent Blue with 1 of those factors missing. we're working on something new and we'll let you in on our plans shorty, but for now we thought we'd lay Agent Blue to rest! Thanks to all the people who stood by us over the years and for the support of all the fans, it really has been a pleasure."
Agent Blue
They have now split up and most of the members have regrouped to form a new band: The Sport, but in January 2010, the original band came out and said that they may reform and do a world tour, finishing at Wembley Stadium. Singer Nick Andrews was reported as saying that the band were going to be "bigger than the fuckin' Rolling Stones and U2 put together. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Agent+Blue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.