(ENG) Agharti, from Zagreb/Samobor (Croatia) was formed in late 2008 when its members met and shared their musical ideas with each other. In the beginning of 2009, an easily recognizable sound was defined: a sound that merges hard rock and melodic metal. Tina's interesting and atypical voice enjoys the spotlight, while Alen's and Poha's riffs give the sound the needed amount of power and Iva's innovative piano and symphonic sections experiment on the thin line between classical and metal music. Grubac's stable bass line and Dule's creative rhythms make the band complete. Occasional backing vocals (sung by Alen and Iva) give the final touch to what we today call Agharti.
    Tina, Iva and Alen both compose the music and write the lyrics. They are not afraid to be different, so their music often brings surprises. The lyrics describe the world of all kind of feelings and experiences: from being helpless and unsatisfied to fighting for a change, finding inner strength and reaching love.
    Every now and then new songs come from their busy rehearsal room. You can hear them on one of their gigs that often take place in different clubs, bars and on festivals in their home town or the surrounding towns. Agharti uses the breaks from the gigs to retreat to their rehearsal crib where they work on the new songs.

Members:
    Vocals - Tina
    Guitar - Poha
    Guitar - Alen
    Keyboards - Iva
    Bass - Grubač
    Drums - Dus

    (CRO) Iako je ideja o bendu godinama tinjala u svakom pojedincu, bend postoji od kraja 2008. godine kada su se članovi Aghartija sastali i odmah prionuli na posao. Početkom 2009. definiran je specifičan i lako prepoznatljiv zvuk koji balansira između žeščeg rocka i melodičnog metala. U prvom planu stoji Tinin zanimljiv i netipičan glas, dok Alenovi i Pohini rifovi daju na žestini, a Ivine inovativne klavirske i simfonijske dionice eksperimentiraju s vezom klasike i metala. Uz Grubačevu stabilnu bas liniju, Dusove maštovite ritmove te poneki Ivin i Alenov back vokal, bend je upotpunjen.
    Autorski trojac čine Tina, Iva i Alen, koji osim muzike pišu i tekstove na engleskom jeziku. U skladanju su hrabri i ne boje se biti drugačiji, zato često iznenađuju svojim netipičnostima. Tekstovi im obuhvaćaju različite osjećaje i iskustva; od bespomoćnosti i nezadovoljstva, preko želje za promjenom pa sve do ljubavi i osjećaja unutarnje snage.
    Iz njihove marljive sviraone svako malo izlaze nove pjesme, koje možete čuti na njihovoj myspace stranici ili uživo na nekom od koncerata u Zagrebu i okolici. Agharti se do sada moglo čuti u različitim klubovima u Samoboru, na moto susretu u Bregani, open-airu u Koretićima te u raznim klubovima i festivalaima u Zagrebu (kao npr. u Sax-u, Time-u...). Između koncerata bend se povlači u svoje odaje gdje priprema snimanje novih pjesama.

http://www.agharti.eu/en/index.html <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Agharti">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.