The name Agincourt has been used by two British groups: a little known folk-rock trio in the early 70's and a Heavy Metal band formed in the early 1990's.

1.  The British trio of Agincourt made one rare, privately pressed LP in 1970, Fly Away. It’s nice second-tier British folk-rock, and though the adjective “haunting” is overused in description of this genre in general, songwriters Peter Howell and John Fernando really had that aspect down, with a greater pop savvy than most people working in the U.K. folk-rock field. Woman singer Lee Menelaus rounded out the trio, which smoothly integrated both male and female lead and background vocals. 



2.  Originally formed in 1991 Agincourt are a Heavy Metal band based in the Midlands, England.

Heavily influenced by the New Wave of British Heavy Metal (NWOBHM) that emerged in the early Eighties, the band first came to prominence in the early Nineties. They had two self-released EP’s  & recorded a session for BBC Radio 1, at their famous Maida Vale Studios in London. At this time the band was receiving substantial airplay at local, national & international level, along with video appearances on national TV, as well as performing live shows at prime venues.

Just as Agincourt were getting into their stride & starting to get noticed, the Grunge scene engulfed traditional metal, killing off shows such as Noisy Mothers & the Friday Rock Show with it. Inevitably in 1997 the band split up & went their separate ways.

11 years later the band was revived by vocalist & guitarist Richard E. Toy, bassist Russ Weaver & guitarist Frank Miracco along with former Benediction & Scarab drummer Paul Brookes. It seemed the right time & this was confirmed as Agincourt songs were once again being played on the BBC. Unfortunately, Frank decided to leave the band in 2008 & was replaced by guitarist Paul Anderson.

In 2009 the band started work on their first album ‘Angels of Mons’ at Sable Rose Studios with producer Andy Faulkner. The mixing of the album was finished by Alex Cooper at Arkham Studios, Birmingham in November 2010.

Steve Riley (also formerly of Scarab) replaced Paul Brookes in 2010 completing the current line up. 

The much awaited album 'Angels of Mons' was released on 1st March 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Agincourt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.