Agnosia is a progressive metal band which was formed in Piraeus/Greece during 2003 by the guitarists/songwriters Dion and Manos (who was also the former vocalist). Along with the keyboardist Chris (Wastefall), drummer Kostas (Crimson Fire) and Vangelis Yalamas (Fragile Vastness) as a session bassist and producer, Agnosia released their debut 4 track demo which was entitled ‘The Inner Conflict’ in April 2004. The aim of the demo was to help the band entering the metal underground. The response was really optimistic. Respected metal magazines and fanzines such as Metal Hammer GR (8/10), Metalzone Magazine GR (8.5/10) Metaleagle.com (7/10), The Metal Observer (7.5/10), Shapelesszine (8/10), Metalcoven.de (84%), Barikada.com (8/10), Powermetal.de had expressed their enthusiasm for the ‘new hope’ of the Greek Progressive Metal Scene. 
During the year 2005 various line-up changes were occurred and agnosia started to work for their upcoming debut release. The same year, the band found its permanent bass player, Julio as well as a new music home, the Noise Factory Studios. The recordings of the new album started in the year 2007. The drums for the album were recorded by Akis Gavalas (Sound of Silence, Thanos Mikroutsikos, Christos Thivaios band etc). The vocals were recorded by Chris (Melisses, Captain Bell etc) and the Keyboards were written and performed by the keyboardist/composer Pantelis (Melisses). The album recording sessions took place in Athens and Piraeus Greece (M.I. and Noise Factory Studios respectively). Moreover, Julio was responsible for the sound production of the album, co-operating with Konstantinos (our new drummer) concerning the mixing procedure. The album was mastered by Mika Jussila at the infamous Finnvox studios in Helsinki, Finland (Nightwish, Amorphis, Horizon’s End etc.). Trace Decay, received excellent reviews (Metal Hammer GR 8/10, Rock Hard GR 8.5/10, Metalzone.gr 90%, Greekrebels.gr 8/10, Underground-Empire.com 14/20, Hard n Heavy 3.5/5, Behind the Veil 8/10) guiding the band to the next level. Among the interest of the Metal magazines and fanzines, Radio Stations (Sto Kokkino fm, Aigaio Live fm, Kastoria Fm, 902 fm etc) and TV shows (Art Uber Alles) 
contacted Agnosia in order to ask them participating in various shows.  Moreover the band was the support act for the progressive metal masters Fates Warning in their reunion ‘Parallels Live’ anniversary show in Thessaloniki Greece. In that show the band introduced their new singer Louis (ex-Fatal Morgana, Equal Vector, Imaginery etc.) and keyboard player Kimon to 900 metal fans. 
The new era for Agnosia has already begun. These days, the band is back again in Noise Factory Studios working in the pre-production of the second full-length album. A Greek tour and some dates outside Greece will be announced very soon. So, stay tuned! 

Line Up: 
Dion – Guitars
Julio – Bass
Manos – Guitars
Louis – Vocals
Kimon – Keyboards
Konstantinos – Drums

Official Webplaces:
 
http://www.agnosia.info
http://www.myspace.com/agnosiaband
http://twitter.com/agnosiaband
http://www.reverbnation.com/agnosia
http://last.fm/music/agnosia
or connect with them on Facebook by typing the word ‘Agnosia’ in the search box.


ARTIST PRESS ITEMS

"And it will be a new little treasure for you to discover in the next riff, the next melody, the next breaking, the next vocal line… and on the next listening this treasure will be different!"


Chris 'Countraven' Papadakis - The Forgotten Scroll


"»Trace Decay« stellt meiner Meinung nach ein wahres "Leckerli" für die Prog-Gemeinde dar, das im Idealfall als Gesamtkunstwerk betrachtet und auch konsumiert werden sollte. Rating: Super - 14/20"


Walter Scheurer - The Underground Empire


"To σημαντικό εδώ είναι πως όλα είναι δοσμένα με μεράκι και πάθος, δομημένα άριστα συνθετικά και παιγμένα άρτια.Καλό ξεκίνημα από μια μπάντα που δείχνει ορεξάτη να δώσει πολλά. Rating: 8/10"


Στέφανος Παπιλίδης - Metal & Heavy Metal Hammer (GR)


"...It is oblvious that the band while was writing the music, had a clear plan about it, and the final result ia really mature one! Rating: 90%"


Konstantinos Grevenitis - metalzone.gr


"Ένα ντεμπούτο, που εκτός των προσεγμένων στην εντέλεια συνθέσεων και γνώριμων ορχηστρικών εξάρσεων, περιέχει πανέμορφες μελωδικές στιγμές και jazzy περάσματα, μια παροδική αίσθηση λυρισμού και ερμηνείες που ταιριάζουν μια χαρά με την ηχητική προσέγγιση του δίσκου."


Πάνος Παπάζογλου - Rocking.gr


"Η συνθετική δουλειά του συγκροτήματος βρίσκεται σε υψηλά επίπεδα και σε συνδυασμό με μια πάρα πολύ καλή παραγωγή αφήνει ένα ευχάριστο ηχητικό αποτέλεσμα σε όσους ασχολούνται με το progressive."


Χρήστος Αρβανιτάκης - Rockap.gr


"μπορώ να πω ότι αν μη τι άλλο εδώ έχουμε μία πολύ προσεγμένη και εντυπωσιακή δουλειά...Ας ελπίσουμε ότι θα έχουν την αναγνώριση που τους αξίζει… Rating: 8/10"


Βίκυ Αθανασοπούλου - greekrebels.gr



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Agnosia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.