Refers to at least 4 artists:

1 - AGO is a collective made up of recording artists and producers based out of West Michigan.

Waldo
Sango
Joose
Famos Ame
The SEVENth

2 - An electronica/disco house/pop artist, Agostino Carollo, based in Verona, Italy. Born in Rovereto, a small town near Lake Garda, in the north of Italy, Agostino graduated in Arts. He travelled the world extensively playing keyboards, singing and deejaying in small clubs before setting up his own studio and his own label, Everness. Round about 1991 he started to produce and release records under several monikers for some of the finest Italian independent record labels. In 1997 he signed a record deal with EMI and he immediately scored a string of hits under the name X-Treme: first in Japan, where his productions “That’s The Way”, “My Fire” and “Wonderland”, perfect examples of hip-hop and house hybrids, reached the top of the charts; then in Europe, where his "Love Song" achieved the gold status in several countries and has also been covered by the English band Right Said Fred (of “I’m Too Sexy” fame). Agostino Carollo released three albums under the name X-Treme: “X-Treme”, “The Love Album” and “Hip Whoop”.

In 1999 Agostino created the record that proved to be a milestone in his career: the Sylvester sampling anthem “Fly Away (Bye Bye)”. Entirely composed, performed and produced by himself, and released under the name Eyes Cream, it made a huge impact on dance floors around the world. Whilst being a commercial success (Top 40 in the UK, France and Italy, Billboard USA Club/Dance n.1, five weeks n. 1 in Canada’s dance chart) it also showed Agostino’s commitment to the disco house sound. After the release of “Fly Away (Bye Bye)” Agostino Carollo’s name rose to fame on the dance scene and his remixes and production skills started to be demanded by artists such as Roxette, Vasco Rossi (n. 1 Italian rock star) and many others.

Other hits followed between 2002 and 2004: Eyes Cream’s "Open Up Your Mind" (Billboard Club/Dance Top 10), "Put On Your Red Shoes" (Top 20 single sales charts in Germany, Italy and Scandinavia) and "Tell Me Where You Are" (a huge radio and club hit in the USA and Canada) released under Agostino’s nickname, Ago. In 2003 Agostino also topped the UK and German single charts co-producing the track “The Power of Bhangra” by Snap! vs. Motivo.

The increasingly prolific Agostino Carollo also kept busy starting in 2004 to produce with Joe Chavez "Hey DJ – The Movie" a film which features the appearance as actors of 16 of the best DJs in the world (such as Tiesto, Carl Cox, Bob Sinclar, Pete Tong, Junior Jack, Marco V, Ferry Corsten and others). The movie, filmed between Miami and Ibiza, and starring also actresses Charlotte Lewis and Evelin Giro, has just been finished and will be released this year. It has been commented by Carl Cox as “Best Dance Movie ever” and is destined to become a real cult movie.

With “To The Club”, the first Spankox single, released worldwide between 2004 and 2005, Agostino Carollo upped his game again, this time moving straight to the funky house area and producing a track that immediately became a smash all over Europe. It was Pete Tong’s pick of the week on the BBC Radio 1 and has been featured in countless compilations worldwide. The BBC invited Spankox to play at their Ibiza Party and the videoclip, shot in Miami, reached the top of the charts on MTV and VIVA. Indeed today every clubber in the world knows the refrain “Monday night to the club, Tuesday night to the club, Wednesday night what a headache, but I went to the club…” thanks also to Fatboy Slim, who opened all his 2005 tour with “To The Club” and included the track in his album “Bondi Beach”. Spankox’s “To The Club” has quickly achieved the status of “Club Classic” and you can still hear it very often in the best clubs, aired by radios around the world or in even as a new version produced by one of the world’s top djs.

After the success of “To The Club” the demand on Spankox as DJ kept increasing and Agostino, who till then had always preferred working mainly in his studio as producer, started to spend more time playing slots at many superclubs and events around the world. “Today I actually write, record and produce most of my music while I’m around the world – says Agostino – I have always my laptop with me, loaded with all the software and stuff I need to transform inspiration and emotion into something good for your ears. I like traveling for DJing because this is for me a great source of inspiration”. Spankox is today requested as DJ all over the world and his fine house sets are not only musically spot on but take the audience to an unforgettable journey. He’s recently played his music in some of the best clubs on the planet such as: Felix (Berlin, Germany), Escape (Amsterdam, Holland), Gabanna (Tenerife, Spain), Neo (Moscow), The Zoo (Ibiza, Spain), Pachuka (Venice, Italy), Crobar (Miami, USA), Compound (Atlanta, USA), The Docks (Toronto, Canada), Voodoo (Las Vegas), Patipa (Kiev)... and many others.

Spankox’s new single is called “So True”. With this track Agostino Carollo has reinvented Spankox yet again, this time as a producer of credible, feel-good, rhythmic pop. Indeed, although “So True” still pumps more than enough to satisfly dancefloors worldwide, the song’s original and beautiful melody, lyrics and soaring vocals, give it across-the-board appeal. “So True” is only the first taste of the next chapter in the ever-evolving story of Spankox.

In an effort to pay a tribute to one of the greatest artist of music history Spankox has produced a massive track: his Re:Version of Elvis Presley's "Baby Let's Play House". After getting attention and respect from both Elvis fans and younger music lovers around the world, the track has just been released as exclusive download from iTunes. An now it sits at the number one of the iTunes Italy Top Singles chart. Joining Agostino in this journey is, once again, Highpass. Releases on VinylDisc (a world'd first - a CD playable also by a normal turntable) are set in several countries for the coming weeks; the Italian release is set on January 8th, to celebrate Elvis' birthday. Agostino Carollo and Spankox, it seems, are both at the peak of their powers.

http://www.myspace.com/agostinocarollo

3 - Italian Italo Disco duo, Kynsha Korja and Jago. Released only one full album in 1982, called 'For You'.
There is hardly any info to find on this obscure duo.

4 - German New Wave / Electronica / Synth Band from Stuttgart formed in 2012, consisting of Manuel Minniti and Robin Wörn. Their debut album Chroma will be released in 2021.

https://ago-band.info/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ago">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.