Bands named Agony:

1.) Agony, originally formed as Agoni in August 1984, was a swedish thrash metal band. Their first demo-tape titled "The Future Is Ours" was released in March 1986. A tour in Britain with swedish punkers Anti-Cimex, and a second demo-recording ("Execution of Mankind") followed the same year, before changing name to Agony. 
In 1987, the band obtained a record deal with the famous Music For Nations label, and released their full-length debut album, "The First Defiance", in 1988. The music was similar to the early works of bands such as Exodus, Metallica and especially Testament. Sadly, it would also prove to be their last effort, as the band disbanded shortly afterwards.

2.) Agony, an important Death-Thrash Metal band from Bogotá (Colombia) burst out of the scene in 1992, when then-college students, Alfonso Pinzon (drums) and Andres Jaramillo (lead guitar) started playing together. 
They released a demo tape in 1994, with all of the songs controversially written in English. The response to their demo, along with their energetic live shows helped attract a solid fan base. They later landed support slots for international acts such as Testament (USA) and A.N.I.M.A.L. (Argentina), as well as headlining the Rock Al Parque festival numerous times.

One of their shows was turned into a live album, Live All The Time. This release became one of the first live recordings released by a Colombian metal act. This release also featured new members, vocalist Cesar Botero and guitarist Carlos ‘Beto’ Marin (Pestilencia).

AGONY reached a milestone within the Latin metal scene through the release of Millennium in 1996. Fusing Latin percussion sounds and powerful death/thrash sounds, this release became an instant classic amongst the South American underground scene. New bassist Carlos Reyes helped the band take their sound to new heights and placed AGONY within the forefront of the Colombian metal scene.

In 1999, AGONY made a bold move and relocated to Los Angeles to record Reborn (Sum Records). Shortly after their move, Reyes left the band and Marin to follow shortly after. AGONY had utilized the bass services of Tony Campos (Static -X) and Louiche Mayorga (Suicidal Tendencies, Horny Toad) for live and recording purposes.

Botero left AGONY in 2001 before the release of Reborn to pursue other musical projects. He is currently in Decode, with current members of Pestilencia.

In 2002, AGONY headlined the Rock Al Parque festival, with vocalist Jeez (ex-Crux) and Tony Campos.

Unable to find a permanent vocalist, Pinzon and Jaramillo both started a new project called Dia De Los Muertos. This new project consisted of mutual friends playing uncompromised metal with a unique Latin flavor. They were invited to headline the 2006 Rock Al Parque festival, with Body Count bassist Vincent Price and Ruin vocalist Nick Reyes. The group surprised the crowd with a few AGONY songs within its setlist.

In 2006, the 10th Anniversary edition of Millennium was released, with a completely remastered and an enhanced CD with video clips from their Rock Al Parque Festival performances.

Since then, AGONY's lineup has reformed joining former Soulfly bassist Marcelo Dias, with each member bringing in his experiences back into the band and unleashing almost two decades worth of metallic brutality onto the world. New album is mixed by Logan Mader (Soulfly, Divine Heresy, Gojira, Cavalera Conspiracy) 

3.) A death metal band from Canada:

The AGONY tragedy began over 17 years ago. Having suffered through the brutal murder of guitarist Rémy Label and his family, the times they then lived through could only be described with one word; Agony, which then became the band name. Rémy Label was replaced by Richard Hudon, who joined just before they recorded the demo “Eve Of Destruction” in 1993. 

Drummer  Érik Beaudeath joined the band shortly after and in 1995 the first album, “Apocalyptic Dawning”, was recorded on an extremely limited budget that gave them just 27 hours of recording time. The album was produced by J-F Dagenais(KATAKLYSM, MALEVOLENT CREATION, MISERY INDEX), who was just starting out as a recording technician. During this period the band also played shows with acts such as: BOLT THROWER, DEICIDE, GORGUTS, KATAKLYSM and IMMOLATION, just to name a few. 

In 1997, shortly after the recording of “L.I.F.E.”, Érik committed suicide, unable to deal with the death of his Grandfather. The AGONY curse nearly struck again in 2002, when Stéphane Gauvreau was involved in a serious work accident that severely crushed his hand leaving him disabled until recently.
After all this hardship and grieving, they are still here standing stronger than ever...

4.) A communist black metal band from Appleton, Wisconsin, USA. The lyrical themes are war, communism and killing Christians. 

Current line-up:
Solarus - Rhythm Guitar, Vocals (Black Witchcraft Savagery)
Gale - Lead Guitar, Vocals (Gale, Bog Imp, Crimson Tears (US))
Wurm - Drums (Bog Imp, Black Witchcraft Savagery, Starlight Funeral Kvlt, Wurm (US),Drachenord, Wicked Blight)
Dystopia - Bass

Discography:
Sickle and Hammer - Full-length, 2004

5.) A death/doom metal band from Dacice, Czech Republic

6.) An Ambient/doom Solo project of Nick Vossen (ex-Arkngthand) from the Netherlands is also called Agony

7.) A crust/d-beat/grind band from Perth, Western Australia. Their first Demo was released under the name of "Clarence J Boddicker" in early 2007.  Released their second EP "Broken Hands" on the newly formed MindRot Records in mid 2009. Played their last show at 208 with fellow label mates Suffer, on the 7th of Feburary 2010.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/AGONY">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.