Agonyst is Louis Coates (lead guitar/vocals), David Perrin (bass/vocals), Zac O’Neil (drums) and Nathan Weanie (Bass).
Founded in Norwich, England in 1998 under the name Paradox, Agonyst seeks to create original, complex and frightening sound-scapes, that both stretch the listeners’ understanding and the performers’ abilities to their limits. But that’s as serious as it gets!

After many false starts, line-up changes and a long hiatus, Agonyst finally gained its momentum in 2006, after drummer Zac O’Neil, and second guitarist Matt Hoban, joined. Matt sadly bowed out in 2010. Thus formed the band’s first line-up capable of delivering musically the outlandish writing style first seen on the underground Centennial Demo. This lead to a handful of dank and dingy shows In 2008 and 2009 at which the band gained a reputation for refreshingly eccentric, peculiar and sometimes offensive performances. Most prestigious of these being an appearance at the Bloodstock Open Air festival, the band’s performance described both as a complete ‘surprise’ and ‘one of the bands of the festival’ by press.

Between 2009 and 2010, Agonyst concentrated on recording its debut full album Centennial at HVR Studios, a breakthrough for all involved including genius producer Dan Biggin. Depicting a ‘trip’ of epic proportions, the listener is drawn into it, and through it, peaking at the zenith of universal glory and delving down deep into pits of madness, spite and confusion. Majestic and awe-inspiring sonic spheres, heart-stopping dynamics and devilish musical tenacity merge to create Centennial.  

So who knows what lies ahead. Between the eagerness to impose Agonyst on a completely new audience, the buzz at a debut release and the feverish prospect of future musical madness, Agonyst are a supercharged force ready to slam your ears into antimatter! Bear witness… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Agonyst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.