Agorazheim is a band from Mallorca, a little balearyc island located on the Mediterranean Sea. The band was born in 1997 as a project because it was very difficult to find musicians to make this kind of dark music. Through all those years the band has been growing up slowly and there have been many changes in band's line up.

The actual line-up is: Hemophagus (guitar/lead vocals/synths), Leinadzheim (guitars/baking vocals), Porfiria (Bass/Female vocals) and Toñejo (Drums).

The band’s first release was a Demo CD called “House of the Dead” recorded by the year 2000 which included two songs with a duration of 15 minutes. The song “House of the dead” was included in a cd compilation entitled “Pure Evil Underground” from the spanish magazine “Iberiam ‘zine”. The other song of the demo was “Son of Cain” and it was included in a compilation too: this time was the “Bloody Compilation Vol. II” from the web ’zine “Bloodyzine”.

With this first release, the band were asked for some interviews of many digital magazines all around the world such as: Icedmetal, La Factoria del Ritmo, Iberiam Black Arts, Eternal Frost...etc. 

The band got a new line-up (actual) by the end of the year 2001 and this made things going a little bit slowly, but as the time passed, the band increased its creative capacity and the perfect integration of the new members (Toni and Eva) made the working on compositions more productive, so it was time to look back on the preexistent songs. They suffered an update process adapting them to the new band’s style. At the begining, the lyrics were based in a rol game that we used to play years ago. It was "Vampire, The masquerade" from WhiteWolf, and the stories that we created with the game worked fine with our music, so we decided to write about them and introduce ourselves into vampirism. Now, there are a lot of literature authors that inspire our lyrics, such as: Norbert Borrmann, Anne Rice, H.P. Lovecraft, E.A. Poe...

The band decided to go to studio by the beginning of 2003 to make a demo with the new songs and in 2004 is planed to enter in the studio again, this time to record the debut album.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Agorazheim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.