Aherusia were formed by Voreas Faethon in Athens,Greece in 1997, with Evrynomos in guitars, Foibos Apollyon in keyboards, Pontos Oceanos in pipes and bagpipes, Lyda Faesforos in female vocals and Polypimon
Damnameneus in battery. During that first period of Aherusia, Voreas Faethon was the main vocalist and also played the bass.The aesthetic principles, the band holds until the present day, were forged from the combination of the traditional hellenic sound and the progregorian european folkloric tunes under the music manifest of Majestic Black Metal. The band played some underground shows and released independently the “Whispers of Moon” mini LP in 1999 for a very small number of copies.During 2000-2003 the band’s activity was frozen, the first line up broke and Voreas Faethon entered the cult north aegean black metal band of Panselinos (based in Mytilene, Lesvos and originally created by Orion Arctorios).Eventually in 2004 the Aherusian dawnhost gathered again:From the ashes of Panselinos, Aherusia were formed again withthe following line up:
Orion Arctorios~vocals, bass.
Voreas Faethon~guitars.
Arcania~guitars.
Ierax~cretian lyra.
Ichoria~Keyboards.
Polypimon Damnameneus~battery.
Two years later, an unsuccessful recording of the first album and too many shows across the entire Aegean Sea, Polypimon Damnameneus and Ichoria left the band, to be succeeded from Aidhor and Charon.In 2007 the band’s seat returned back to Athens, where Alchemist and Esperos took the orphaned positions of Orion Arctorios and Ierax, since they could not follow the band due to serious obligations.

In November of 2008 AHERUSIA entered in Devasoundz studios (Athens) for the purposes of the recording of bands’ debut album “And The Tides Shall Reveal The Traces”. Sound engineering was made by Jon Simvonis, the takes were edited by Fotis Benardo (SEPTICFLESH), Jon Simvonis (DESCENDING) and George Emmanuel (VALET PARN). The album was mixed and mastered by Sakis Tolis (ROTTING CHRIST) and produced by Voreas Faethon and Christos Antoniou (SEPTICFLESH). Artwork was created by Seth Siro Anton (SEPTICFLESH).Few months later, Alchemist left the band only to be succeeded from Shadow (SNOWTHORN, SACROSANCT).

Finally at 23/04/2009, AHERUSIA signed with EMOTION ART LTD. The debut album “And The Tides Shall Reveal The Traces”, is planed to be released in the middle of Autumn of 2009. AHERUSIA are also preparing their second album titled: “As I Cross The Seas Of My Soul” and are booking shows.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aherusia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.