1) Aidan Cassar (born in Zejtun, Malta on 17 December 1999) is a Maltese singer-songwriter who has taken part in the Maltese national final with aim to represent his country at the Eurovision Song Contest 2018. He was under the direction of Joshua Alamu (former vocal coach of 'The Voice Uk' season 1 & 2, Director of MadAbout TheVoice') and Pamela Bezzina (former vocal coach of the Maltese representatives of the Eurovision Song Contest, and director of the Animae Gospel Choir and Vocal Booth Studios.

2) Born and raised in Dublin and currently living in Bruxelles, the road that took him there has been considerably longer than the distance between the two cities. Infected with the travel bug from an early age, Aidan was quick to strap on a guitar, jump on his bike and set off on a variety of adventures throughout Europe.

Writing, recording and playing his way across nine different countries, Aidan would wake up some days as a farmer, some days a scuba-diver and some days as a sound engineer - always singing and clocking up the kilometers on his bike. As his travels continued, he had the opportunity to meet and play with artists as diverse as Bobby McFerrin, Damien Rice, Conor O'Brien (Villagers) and Antoine Wielemans (Girls In Hawaii). Some of these collaborations made it to tape, some to stage, and others no further than the kitchen table, but each was important in forging his continuing path.

His new album, "Le Grand Discours" is a culmination of this journey: A series of eleven snapshots; eleven intimate, yet high-energy performances; beautifully and carefully orchestrated with all the colours of his travels. The album features guest performances by many of the characters he has met along the way, lifting its lyric with string, wind and vocal arrangements and set to the solid backbone of the Italian Weather Ladies, a group of specially selected musicians who accompany Aidan on his musical quest.

An experienced musician with hundreds of shows under his belt, Aidan has also recorded and toured around the world with Irish Meteor Award Winner, Wallis Bird, as well as releasing his own live album, "Live and Sans Souci", with his collaborators, the Italian Weather Ladies, and being selected by Music Network, to represent Ireland in the 2008 Biennale in Italy with his previous musical vehicle, "Lord Altmont".

"Le Grand Discours", will be released with Hazelwood Vinyl Plastics and Rough Trade on March 16th 2012, will remind you of Elbow, Nick Drake, John Martyn or even Villagers. Aidan is one of those rare musicians where the energy he evokes in his performance seems to come from some deep and unknown place, so close your eyes and allow yourself be taken away...

4) Dutch folk musician
Eindhoven based singer-songwriter Diederik van den Brandt who performs solo and with band  under the moniker Aidan. His first album has yet to be released in the spring of 2016. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aidan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.