AILLION -  is a Minsk rock-band which appeared on March, 18th, 2008.  It was formed by 4 musicians who shortly before left STAYA(Стая):

Konstantin Dudarev (vocals), Dmitry Mikulich (guitar), Alexander Sedymov (guitar) and Sergey Baikov (drums). They invited Kirill Tomashevich as a bass guitarist who at that time played with Sergey Baikov in "Svora". At once they started to work on the material for the debut album as they had some drafts created when they were playing in STAYA.

For the first time the band appeared on stage of the First Minsk Metal Fest in NightStar club on the 10th of May.  All the summer musicians worked on the new material to return to the recording studio of Petr Elfimov in August. AILLION also resumed their cooperation with a sound engineer Andrew Starovoitov "Ravenlord" who actually was a producer of the Staya's album "Strana L'dov" (The Land of Ice).

Soon afterwards Kirill Tomashevich decided to concentrate on his band "SeveroYug" and left AILLION. He was replaced by a new promising bass guitarist Vlad Cheszhevick.

In September, being a laureate of international contests, Konstantin Dudarev (vocals) went to Rostov-on-Don as a member of Belarusian delegation to take part in the 3rd festival "Youth for the Union State". Within the framework of the festival he performed AILLION songs and the song of Cheslaw Niemen "Czy wiesz o tym, ze..."

In Autumn of 2008 AILLION took part in the concert, dedicated to the annual harvest festival "Dozhinki" in Orsha. Later they appeared on stage of the bike-fest in Lida...

Now the band is working on their debut album.

The ancient word El was used as a collective name for God or any other Ens Supremum (e.g. El-Elion or El-Shadai) and in the Sumerian language of ancient Mesopotamia it meant "Light". Northwards in Babylon the derivative ELLU also had the same meaning as well as ILU in Akkad. Having spread in Europe it acquired different forms: Elf, Ellyl, Aelf, AILLI.  In the Dark Ages they were used to name gods, elves and angels (in Gaelic Cornwall EL was equivalent to the Anglo-Saxon ENGEL and old-French ANGELE that finally became ANGEL in English).

"AILLION" is a mystic kingdom of "light". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aillion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.