Air Traffic were an alternative rock band formed in Bournemouth, England in 2005 while at sixth-form college. The band were composed of Chris Wall (vocals, piano, guitar), Tom Pritchard (guitar), David Jordan (percussion) and James Maddock (bass guitar). 

In June 2006, Air Traffic released their first single, double A-side Just Abuse Me/Charlotte on London-based indie label Club Fandango. Following this the band signed to major label EMI.

They went on to release Never Even Told Me Her Name as a four track EP in October 2006.

Their debut album Fractured Life was released in July 2007 charting at number 42 in the UK, supported by the singles Shooting Star, No More Running Away, and a re-release of Charlotte.

In February 2008 Fractured Life was released in the USA through the label Astralwerks, with additional track Come On which signaled a darker sound and lyrics thought to be about the band's troubled relationship with EMI. This release was supported with an extensive tour of America with Elbow.

In 2009 Air Traffic began writing their second album, following the departure of drummer David Jordan and leaving EMI. The first glimpse of new material was an Internet only download called Ambulate which showed a clear departure from their previous mainstream Alt-pop sound.

The played a summer tour during 2009 previewing new songs, however these only came to fruition through a low key download EP called Whatever Comes released to those attending the two final shows Air Traffic announced, a warm up gig in Bournemouth before playing Bush Hall, London on the 29th April 2010.

The band officially announced a split on the 26th September 2010 announcing 
"To our Loyal fans,
We are taking a break from being a band for a while to try other things.
To everyone who ever helped us, thank you. To everyone who supported us, we wouldn’t exist without you.
We’ll let you know here if things change, or what other endeavours we’re up to.
Love
Air Traffic"

* Chris Wall – Vocals, Piano
* Tom Pritchard – Guitar
* James Maddock – Bass guitar
*David Ryan Jordan - Drums (Until 2009)

Air Traffic's singer Chris Wall's new project is Soft Bullets. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Air+Traffic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.