AJ Tracey is a British rapper and grime MC. His dad’s a former rapper from Trinidad, and his mum is a Welsh former drum and bass DJ. Based in Ladbroke Grove, West London (although he was raised in the south just like FT and true say, his dad lived in Tottenham), AJ started making waves in the pirate radio scene in 2014, although his songs under the name Looney date back to 2011.

Speaking to GRM about his stage name, AJ explained:

"Basically when I used to shot, I couldn’t give my real name. I used to wear loads of Armani, so I called myself AJ. The Tracey comes from this guy called Stacey in my ends. Everyone used to be/is scared of him so I thought, if a man has a girl’s name and he’s still scaring people, the maybe I should try doing it so I can be THAT guy."

Whether it’s sets on Rinse or Radar Radio alongside his crew, My Team Paid, street singles with rising talents like Dave and Reeko Squeeze, or collaborations with big names like Gorgon City, Tinchy Stryder and P Money, over recent years, AJ has proven himself to be one to watch.

Sure enough, in 2016, he won Best Breakthrough Act at the Rated Awards, and was nominated for the Best Newcomer and Best Grime Act categories at the MOBOs. Following the release of his Lil Tracey EP in December, he also made the BBC Sound of 2017 longlist, the Independent’s Ones to Watch 2017 and the VEVO dscvr Ones to Watch 2017 list. He toured the UK and US throughout 2017.

In October 2017, he released the Secure the Bag! EP, featuring guest vocals from Jme, Denzel Curry, 67 and Craig David. The eight-track project became his first to enter the UK Albums Chart, coming in at number thirteen.

In early 2018, AJ Tracey modelled for the OVO clothing line in 2018.[26] In May 2018, Tracey released the single "Butterflies" featuring Not3s. The song served as AJ Tracey's commercial breakthrough, peaking at number 19 on the UK Singles Chart. The single was followed up with "Lo(v/s)er", which peaked at number 38. Tracey also featured on Craig David's album "The Time is now" collaborating on the track "Somebody like me". In early July 2019 the Swedish rapper Z.E [sv] released his second album, Mer än rap ("more than rap"). Tracey was featured on the title track "More Than Rap".

On 21 November 2018, Tracey announced the pre-order of his self-titled debut album, released on 8 February 2019. The lead single, "Doing It", was released for streaming and digital on the same day. Four more singles were released to promote AJ Tracey: "Butterflies" featuring Not3s, "Psych Out!", "Necklace" featuring Jay Critch, and "Ladbroke Grove". AJ Tracey debuted at number three on the UK Albums Chart and is certified Silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). "Ladbroke Grove" became Tracey's highest-charting single peaking at number three on the UK Singles Chart. On 10 October 2019, Tracey announced the upcoming release of a deluxe edition of AJ Tracey, to feature five new songs and a couple of surprises. The album was released on 25 October. On 14 February 2020, AJ Tracey announced his Australian tour starting in Adelaide on 24 April, but was later postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

On 22 March 2021, AJ Tracey announced via a fake press conference on YouTube his second studio album titled Flu Game as well as the album's tracklist, which was released on 16 April 2021. The album includes singles such as Dinner Guest, West Ten, "Anxious", and "Bringing It Back". 5 hours prior to the release of the album, AJ released the single "Little More Love" as well as releasing a music video on YouTube. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/AJ+Tracey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.