There are multiple artists using this name.

1. Akasha is a Costarican Hard Rock Band.Their name, Akasha  comes from ancient celt - meaning the source of energy that keeps beings alive.
The Band was born in the year 2000 by guitarrist Emmanuel Sotela and ex-singer singer Leonardo Barboza, and has had a long and positive evolution throughout the years, exploring from alternative rock, to grunge, metal and progresive styles to the current style, which is their definite sound, that lingers from Alternative Metal, to Hard Rock.

It was during this lineup that the band recorded its first independant EP (which the band only gave away to friends and fans and was never comercially released) which included 3 songs. It was after this that Akasha started playing better gigs, getting invited to big rock venues in the country and enjoyed some quality radio time with the 1st single out of the Ep,called ¨Palacio de Cristal¨

By mid 2004 Leo had left the band and in came Julio Najera to replace vocal duties on the band, and soon after bassist Alonso C. and drummer Alonso Z(now in the boston band Delta Waves) left the band to study music in USA. With this came new bass player/2nd singer Mauni V. into the band that provided a more modern sound and a second voice to the band, and soon after came Narayan B. with his kick ass drumming and finished giving Akasha the twist it had been yearning for!! the lineup is now complete and the way it always should have.

2006 was a very big year for the band, because they recorded their first full length independent album titled ¨Descriptar¨. It was recorded and produced by Jesse Alvarado (sonic response productions from LA) here in Costa Rica, Audio Arte studios, and was mixed by Jesse in Los Angeles in Sonic Response Productions, and mastered by Jesse in World Class Audio in LA.


2.  Akasha is a Swedish group consisting of five women. The group was inspired by Sri Chinmoy's poetry and songs, and started to sing and play together in 1982. Since then the group has been giving concerts in Sweden regularly and has also been on tours in Finland, France, Austria, Switzerland and Germany. Instruments - Guitars, harmoniums, esraj, xylophone, Indian and Western flutes. Some critics compare Sri Chinmoy's music to Gregorian chant and perhaps this comparison will seem especially true when hearing the recordings of Akasha. Many of his songs began as devotional poems to which he later set music. Some speak of joy and peace, others of the longing man feels to be united with his Source.

3. Akasha is a now defunct political post-punk band from Memphis, TN featuring current and ex-members of Bury the Living and Pezz. Often compared to everything from Fugazi and Husker Du to earlier Neurosis, they had released one self-released album named "Closer" and disbanded some time in 2006.

4. Akasha is a duo from Brixton.  Equally admired by jazz fans and drum'n'bass DJs, Charles James Casey and Damian John Hand recorded several of the most diverse EPs for the nominally trip-hop/big-beat Wall of Sound Records. The duo debuted in early 1995 with the EP Jazadelica, the third release on Wall of Sound. The EP earned much praise, earning Akasha a spot at 1995's Glastonbury Festival. There, Casey and Hand unveiled their onstage incarnation, a nine-piece band with several accomplished musicians. In 1998 they released two remix EPs, and a year later the full-length album, Cinematique followed.

5. Akasha is a group, also known as Akasha Experience, are a dedicated duo of psychedelic adventurers,  spreading their dub infused sonic spores across the aether. Influenced by world, ambient and psy sounds, their psychedelic stew has found favour around the globe, with releases on Audio Ashram, FreeSpirit and Dubmission Records, and  tours of Australasia and America.

6. Akasha was a Norwegian spacey, electronic prog band, who recorded one album in 1977. 

7. Akasha is a one-man raw black metal project from California. https://akashabm.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Akasha">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.