Aki Tsuyuko (アキツユコ) began taking electronic organ lessons when she was a child – one of the images in Hokane is a picture of a young Aki playing organ. “I think that everything I have experienced growing up in Japan is somehow an element of my music,” she says. In addition to her organ studied she practiced the classical Japanese dance "Nihon-buyo" lessons for 15 years. “ I could not find pleasure very much in it, although I had been doing it for such a long time and grown to be skilled in a craft. I was excited by the movements of modern ballet, similar to the way that I had more interest in piano pieces than electronic organ's ones. However I think that the long experience of Nihon-buyo and electronic organ together influenced how I play and write music.”

In her late teens, Tsuyuko discovered and was influenced by Eric Satie's piano pieces. She began to play these pieces on electronic organ, interpreting them in her own way. It was through this process that Tsuyuko got into her own music and composition.

In the mid 90’s, she sent her music to Nobukazu Takemura, which lead to release of her music and years of collaboration between the two musicians. Tsuyuko has performed around the world singing and playing keyboards, and also creating video art and clay animation for their performances. Aki Tsuyuko has performed with Tortoise, Sonic Youth, Jim O’Rourke, Brokeback, Yo La Tengo, and Arto Lindsay.


Hokane is printed in an edition of 2000.


1998 

Released first solo single 7inch "sprout” on Japanese label "Childisc."

Provided vocals for Child's View "Yoru no Yuuenchi"(Childisc) and "Funfair" (Bubblecore).


1999

Released 2nd single 7inch "lila lila" (Childisc).

Provided voice samples for Nobukazu Takemura "Meteor"(Thrill Jockey)

Provided samples for Nobukazu Takemura "Scope"(Thrill Jockey).

Released 3rd single 7inch "First Idea"(Childisc).

Provided voice samples for for Nobukazu Takemura "Milano - for

Issey Miyake men by Naoki Takizawa"(Warner Music Japan).

Released first solo album Ongakushitsu (Childisc).

Provided voice samples for Nobukazu Takemura "Finale - for Issey


2000

Released solo album Ongakushitsu on Jim O'rouke's Moikai label.

Released 4th single "A Full Moon and A Long Night"(Childisc).

Collaborated with Mice Parade "collaborations"(Bubblecore).


2001

Created live video manipulation for Nobukazu Takemura Tour

Provided vocals for Nobukazu Takamura feat. Aki Tsuyuko "Mohou no

Hiroba"(Childisc/Tokuma Japan Communications).

Created clay animation movie for the promotion video. Provided vocals for Nobukazu Takemura Song Book (Childisc/Tokuma Japan Communications).


2002

Video manipulation for Nobukazu Takemura US and Canada tour with Plaid.

Participated in animation festival in Italy "Cartoombria 2002"


2004

Joined on vocal for Nobukazu Takemura and Child's View Band UK tour Participated in "All Tomorrow's Party" in the UK with NobukazuTakemura


2005

Live performance for live show of Tape Japan tour.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aki+Tsuyuko">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.