There are several artists under this name:

1. Since Akira debuted as a model of “KERA,” a popular gothic fashion magazine, she quickly became one of the top models in Japan and has appeared on covers of many magazines including “KERA BOKU.” She is also DISACODE's (j-rock band) vocalist.

Her unique Gothic boyish style has captured a huge female fan base in Japan and overseas, and she has performed at many international fashion events including Japan Expo 2013 and Shanghai Expo. Besides being a model, she is also a singer, and she will have a major debut as solo artist “AKIRA” this summer. Her debut song, “Aoki Tsuki Michite,” will become the ending theme of popular Japanese TV animation “Black Butler (Kuroshitsuji) Book of Circus.”Official release date is July 30th, 2014.


2. Born in 1984 in a small town in the north of Germany, Akira dreamed from an early age about becoming a singer. 
Her dream came true. She has produced trance tracks for many years. Tracks like "Million Miles Away From Home" are known by people around the world.

3. DJ Akira: Kin Wing Lam has been DJ-ing in the terror speedcore circuit for over 12 years now and is sought after worldwide for his devastating skillz. As the owner of "Hong Kong Violence" records he has also produced the infamous “Trance Trutje”.
Nowadays Akira is back on track so to speak, with some savage new – soon to be released - mu”sick”. Together with his bollox DJ sets this really makes him the leader DJ of hardest hardcore techno in all forms. 

4. An electronica/post-rock/pop band who formed in Cambridge and now reside in London. After years of self-releasing and underground critical acclaim, the JAPANESE FREQUENCIES EP was released by Filthy Little Angels in September 2008. They disbanded in late 2009 and are all pursuing new musical projects.

5. A marginal hip-hop band from France, spelled "AKIRA" (in capital letters).

6. A drum and bass act from Japan.

7. A dnb/jungle/ragga dj/mc Akira from Poland.

8. An alternative rock band from Germany, members Johanna (vocals), Christian (lead guitar), Adam (drums) and Tjörven (guitar). Formed in 2006 and currently recording.

9. A progressive death / metalcore / experimental band from Russia (Nizhny Novgorod). The band released a 3-song demo recording in 2007, renamed to The Akira, and then split up in 2009.

10. Czech dnb dj named Akira, part of Deadly Viperz duo (together with Anakin). Comes from Karlovy Vary.

11. A dark hardcore / experimental band from Russia (Moscow), released a 4-song Demo recording in 2010.

12. Akira is a dubstep/riddim producer who is currently signed to Ape Garden Agency. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Akira">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.