1. Swedish Heavy Metal band from the early 80's also known as Act and Verdict.
2. Akt is a Munich Metal Band. 
3. Brazilian Post Punk/New Wave band of the 80s.
4. Latvian band. 90's -- Instrumentals: Vocal, Keyboard, Bass, Drums. Lyrics: German
5. Grunge/rock band from Kragujevac, Serbia who played during the 90's. They've released two albums.
6. Italian progressive rock band.
This Italian band was born in 1998 in Bologna. Four members made up the original line-up, sometimes they were in five, now the band is consisting of Simone Negrini (drums, keyboards), Marco Brucale (guitars) and Alessandro Malandra (bass). Initially they produce single songs then collected in emotionally moulded albums which are available for free on their homepage so far. The band hopes the music will be often downloaded and requested, observed and criticized: 'Music should be made known, spread abroad, communicated, should be free, open and shared in order to be managed and edited as a discovery' as they say.

Since the year 2000 AKT is using computer for processing the music more and more and this indicates an experimental attitude. So their kind of sound can be defined as eclectic, composed with a high complexity and performed with excellent technical skills. The songs are rock music based but there is also a strong electronic colour though provided with a lot of melancholy and sometimes even a special weird touch.

The first full album 'Déntrokirtòs' from 2007 appears as a skillful modern progressive rock debut - seven songs with vocals in Italian and varied keyboard and guitar work. The following EP 'frAKTal.one' from 2008 is more referenced to King Crimson with an interesting interpretation of 'Vroom' plus one new song as an awesome hint for what can be expected from the band for the further future.

Credits to Rivertree (Uwe Zickel). Originally posted on Progarchives.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Akt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.