There are multiple artists with this name:
1. Al-x is a female pop/electro/acoustic artist from California. She's a singer and songwriter who dances and plays guitar. Her 3 released EPs have garnered great reviews. Drawing from her over 300 songs, she's created exciting shows with a unique hybrid of guitar & dance at hot LA venues like House of Blues, Knitting Factory, The Whisky, etc. Brand new single & music video July 2015! For more head to www.alexmusicsite.com. 
Twitter: @alexmusictweets Instagram: @alexmusicsite Youtube.com/thealexmusic521

2. Alex Gardner, now known professionally as A-L-X (born 23 July 1991, Edinburgh, Scotland) is a Scottish pop singer. He released two singles in 2010 as Alex Gardner, "I'm Not Mad" and "Feeling Fine", before changing his stage name to A-L-X and releasing his third single, "Beautiful Criminal", in 2014. Alex Gardner grew up in Edinburgh, surrounded by music. Mum was a violinist with an orchestra, his older brother played in a heavy metal band. “I started having piano lessons when I was 5,” he says. “Though I quit when I was 6. I couldn’t stand someone telling me how to do it. If music sounds right, then it has to be right. It shouldn’t matter about the method.”

Having supported Paolo Nutini across Scotland, played on the same bill as Mika and Paloma Faith and performed dozens of his own shows, Gardner has cut his chops live. “Performing is such an essential part of what I do,” he enthuses. “I was always the guy at parties who’d get the guitar out.”


3.AL-X (Alex Spasic) is born and raised in Malmo, Sweden, with roots from southern Europe (Balkan). Started playing the flute and Alto Sax by the age of 9 and later, the piano, guitar and vocals. In 1991 AL-X and his childhood friends started a Reggae band called D..Roots. AL-X has a strong belif that racism and intolerance is an illness and can be cured with music and "One Love" Experiencing in his upbringing racism not only against his last name but also for his roots. The album "The Pain" is reflecting AL-X..s life. EP Released! Debute Album is set to Early Spring 2009, www.myspace.com/alxm040 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Al-x">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.