Canadian pianist and composer Alain Lefèvre born in Poitiers on July 23rd 1962 into a family of musicians, was introduced to piano at only four years old, by his father, a clarinetist. At five, he took his first lessons in Montreal, at the College Marguerite-Bourgeoys and soon, he revealed himself to be a young virtuoso. At six years old, he wins the 1st Prize at the Canadian Music Competition and gives his first recital at the Grand Théatre in Quebec city. At nine, he wins the 1st Prize at the Heintzman Piano Competition, makes the headlines of the Montreal Star, describing him as the “Star of tomorrow” and gives his first television interview on CBC. Over the years, he will win the 1st Prize at the Canadian Music Competition eight more times. At fourteen, he takes Master Classes with Jeanne-Marie Darré and Lucette Descaves in France and at seventeen he returns there to complete his studies at the Conservatoire National Supérieur de Musique de Paris, in the class of the highly esteemed Pierre Sancan, who saw in Alain Lefèvre one of his “most brilliant disciples”. Also his teachers are Pierre Max Dubois in composition and Geneviève Joy. In the course of his studies there, the great violinist Christian Ferras, moved by his talent, invites him to play with him, after having heard him perform on air at Radio-France. They will give a recital of Bach Sonatas at Salle Gaveau in Paris. The sudden death of Ferras interrupts their tour in Spain. He will then join Isaac Stern and Ivry Gitlis on stage at the Châtelet for a tribute to the late virtuoso. At the Conservatoire, he is awarded first prizes in both piano and chamber music. He wins the Grand Prix at the Alfred Cortot International Piano Competition and gives his first recital in Milan, at the Piccola Scala. Following a remarkable debut at Salle Pleyel in Paris, in a stunning performance of the Rachmaninov’s Piano Concerto No. 3, Lefèvre is immediately invited to a return performance, and those concerts will mark the debuts of his sparkling international career. (See “Concert Artist” Section for a Bio).

When not on stage, Alain Lefèvre spends time composing. He also hosts a radio show broadcasted every Sunday, on Radio-Canada’s Espace Musique, featuring two hours of classical music. For a third consecutive year, he will be the Artistic Ambassador of the Lanaudière International Festival. Extremely dedicated to bringing classical music to the young ones, he pursues his “cultural mission” by seeing thousands of students every year, all over the world, from elementary to high school, when invited on tour, or at home.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Alain+Lef%C3%A8vre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.