Alai Oli is a reggae band that started on September 29, 2004 (the first concert played at PV club in Berezovsky, Ekaterinburg, Russia). They released their first demo called «Бог есть любовь» soon. The band becomes popular in their home town and after a few month they played live at «Bob Marley’s 60th anniversary» festival in Moscow, Russia on the same stage with reggae singer  Horace Andy.

After returning to their home town Alai Oli gave an interview and played an acoustic concert at Pilot Radio and after several weeks played live at legendary Rock City club, Novosibirsk, Russia.

In spring 2005 Alai Oli presented a new concert program and issued a second demo which includes songs «Джаманы», «Не уходи» and «Наташа» the last of them becomes a hit. Same time the band takes part in «Старый Новый Рок — На волне» festival, performs live at bike show in Irbit and organize the «Alai Oli Happy Birthday» party at Playnet club with the Ekaterinburg famous reggae, ska and hip-hop bands.

At the beginning of 2006 Alai Oli plays one of their best concerts at «Tochka» club in Moscow, Russia with a new band members Mils (percussion) and Sergey Karmanov (sax, clarinet). Starting that time the band received a large fan support which cold be seen at all their live concerts in Moscow.

Summer same year the band plays at «Жара» in Sysert and «СНР на волне» in Krasnoturyinsk festivals as a headliner. After that Alai Oli takes a half-year break to work on their first album at «Russia — Ural» TV company studio featuring Alexander Kosilov (Да Бац,  JahGun).

«Да, Бро?» album which includes 13 tracks was released on February 1, 2007. Alai Oli performs on February 8 at reggae festival at «Б1 MAXIMUM» club in Moscow with Lee «Scratch» Perry. Moscow album presentation was on February 14 at «Жесть» club and finally the album was presented at PV club, Ekaterinburg.

«Снежная Барселона» was released in December, 2008. Alai Oli launched a large tour to promote their second album.

Summer 2009 Alai Oli played before  Manu Chao in «Зеленый театр», Moscow.

Website: www.alaioli.com
VK group: vkontakte.ru/club417893

Band members
Olga Markes (vocals)Alexander «Shapo» Fedotovskikh (bass)Dmitry Lavrentyev (guitar)Konstantin Chernyavsky (trumpet)Petr Rogozhin (percussion)Alexey Ponomarev (drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alai+Oli">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.