Alamo Race Track is an indierock band, founded and based in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The band rose from the ashes of Redivider (1997-2001), a melodic guitar band that won the Grote Prijs van Nederland ('Grand Prize of The Netherlands'), Holland's number one band battle, in 1998. As Diederik Nomden - musically a key figure - left the group, Ralph Mulder (guitar/vocals), David Corel (bass/vocals), Len Lucieer (guitar) and Guy Bours (drums) decided to carry on as Alamo Race Track. This was towards the end of 2001. The name change also marked a dramatic shift in sound and therefore, effectively, the birth of a new band.

The band's sound has been described as "introspective like Sparklehorse or Neil Young's Harvest, but with a big city buzz", whereas newspaper The Austin Chronicle felt that "Alamo Race Track. . . spills blood on the tracks with the shake 'n' bake of Silkworm and The Jesus Lizard."

Alamo Race Track released two studio albums thusfar, both on Holland's prestigious Excelsior Recordings label: Birds At Home (2003) and Black Cat John Brown (2006). Both albums received rave reviews in The Netherlands and - remarkably - France, where Alamo Race Track are popular in the indie circuit. The band also played Manchester's In The City festival and the SXSW conference in Austin, Texas.

Having disappeared from the spotlights after 2006, Alamo Race Track re-surfaced in early 2010, in a different line-up. It appeared that Corel and Bours had quietly disappeared. Mulder and Lucieer remain in the band; Jelte van Andel (bass) and Robin Buijs (drums) complete today's line-up. The band wrote the soundtrack for a theatre play called 'Innenschau' and performed it live on stage as the play went on tour in The Netherlands. The songs for 'Innenschau' will feature on the band's forthcoming third studio album, which has been scheduled for early 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alamo+Race+Track">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.