Alannah Myles (née Byles; born in Toronto on 25 December 1958) is a Canadian singer/songwriter. She who both a Grammy and a Juno Award for her 1989 recording of the song “Black Velvet” that, in 1990, was a top-ten hit in Canada and a number one hit on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

As a young girl, Myles competed as an equestrian in Canada's prestigious Royal Winter Fair later studying to be a graphic artist, actor, stunt model, make up artist and wardrobe stylist to pay for her true calling, music.  Myles changed her surname from Byles at the age of 19, after deciding to pursue a career in entertainment. Between appearing in TV ads, modelling and local gigs which, due to her multi-tasking confused Canadian labels who continually rejected signing her as a recording artist, she financed two songs from her 1989 debut album with match financing from FACTOR and Much Music's Christopher Ward who wrote songs (Black Velvet), executive produced and helped manage her music career signed to Atlantic Records with worldwide international success.

Myles' first self titled album (1989) produced four Top 40 hits, “Love Is”, “Lover of Mine”, and “Still Got This Thing”, as well as the international classic hit, “Black Velvet”, won her a 1991 Grammy award for best female rock vocalist along with four Juno Awards, and a Diamond award for sales in excess of one million in Canada - the only debut artist to retain this status. 

In 1991 America's ASCAP awarded the song, Black Velvet with a 'Millionaire Award' for the highest radio airplay in the world and again in 2005 for over five million radio plays of “Black Velvet”. Canada's SOCAN awarded the songs, “Black Velvet” and “Lover Of Mine” each with an award for over one hundred thousand plays in Canada in 2005 with her classically orchestrated ballad, international number one hit, “Song Instead Of A Kiss” to follow.

Her follow-up album; Rockinghorse (1992) received a Grammy nomination for best female rock vocalist and three Juno Awards. After sale of over eight million records on three albums Alannah concluded her alliance with Atlantic Records and signed with Miles Copeland's Ark 21 Records to release her fourth record, A Rival (1997) which produced the top 40 hit, 'Bad 4 You'. WMG released The Very Best Of Alannah Myles (1999) containing hits from four albums and newly recorded songs. 

After a lengthy songwriting hiatus, Myles released her fifth studio album in 2009 containing 11 new studio recordings along with several new versions of her classic worldwide hit title track, 'Black Velvet'. Executive produced with co-producer Mike Borkosky from Toronto and Veronica Ferraro from Paris, France, world renown producer Terry Brown mixed one her finest audio CD recordings to date showcasing the same sultry rock blues we've grown accustomed to from Alannah. 

After terminating a six-year lease with Canadian indie label Linus Entertainment in August 2013, Myles's "Black Velvet" album was retitled "85bpm", repackaged for her 25th Anniversary with new images photographed by fellow Canadian Deborah Samuel. A newly recorded song written by Anne Peebles, produced by Michael Borkosky, "Can't Stand the Rain" was added to "85bpm", featuring a solo played by Canadian guitarist Jeff Healey, re-released on Myles's independently owned label, Fascinate inc. The last track, Trouble, was written in Nashville and recorded in Toronto with a jug band.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alannah+Myles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.