‘The idea for this band came from Miran and Nan who have been in bands together for over 3 years. We wanted to play music were impassionate by and we are looking for people who feel the same to make this work.

And so the search for the band members began somewhere in 2006. After playing with many talented, and also many not so talented musicians, we decided that it wasn’t going anywhere so we quit playing for a while to focus on some new materials. Sometime later the playing urge started to itch again and we went on in our search for the band Alantia. Miran was currently playing in another metal band Lectica but that wasn’t working out the way she wanted so she decided to give her undivided attention to Alantia. Lucky for us keys player Erik liked the idea we had for our band and joined us.

Pretty soon after we started playing again and we’ve again played with many musicians but it was very hard to match our schedules. In November 2008 the search for completing the bad was still on. We received an email from Mark. We met and instantly connected on a musical as well as a personal level. Mark knew a friend Tom who might want to play the second guitar part. From that moment on we were only still looking for a bass player

Januari 2009 The year didn’t start of very great with Alantia. Myran had been suffering for a hearing problem for some time now. We managed to continue rehearsals without her, of course hoping she’d be back. But unfortunately she had to decide to leave the band. The rest of us had to think about what to do next. We love our music too much to give it up so we decided to continue.

And with succes. Only a few months later Yvette and her magical voice joined our team and we were complete once again. Since then things have gone fast. We've been writing new songs, recording a demo and doing some awsome shows. The new demo has just been released and hopefully we'll be playing a whole lot more in the near future.

2010 is going to be our year!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alantia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.