Born and raised in the South Bronx, New York—hisstory does not get any realer than this. Albert “ALBe BACK” Daniels was surrounded by hip-hop greats during his most impressionable years, so it’s only fitting that he is in this unique position right now to uphold the legacy of the greats before him. Citing his cousin and late hip-hop legend, Big Pun, as one of his major influences, ALBe grew up watching him create the classic videos, albums and movement from its infant stage. It is very clear in ALBe’s music that he is a true Bronx MC first, it just so happens that he’s good at everything else too.

The phrase “Renaissance Man” is thrown around way to oftennowadays in this industry, but no one truly embodies the phrase like ALBe. TheGrammy-winning producer/MC/actor/poet/songwriter/director is mostknown for his infectious humor as “Brooklyn” in the critically acclaimed, Warner Brothersfeature, “ATL."Chris Robinson,who directed the film,had known Daniel's since he was a fifteen-year-old production assistant on the set of his music video shoots in New York. Upon receiving the script, Robinson immediately sought out ALBe for the role. ALBe starred alongside T.I. Evan Ross and Lauren London in what is considered as a culture classic. 

In addition to his acting ventures, ALBe then capitalized on his childhood love: poetry. As a regular at New York’s Nuyorican Café and Los Angeles’s Da Poetry Lounge, ALBe’s life story is featured in the award-winning spoken word documentary “SPIT,” directed by Rotimi Rainwater; the documentarywas also featured inthe 2006 CannesFilmFestival.In addition, ALBe also appeared in HBO’s award-winning original program, “Def Poetry Jam."

The musicthough is where ALBe is just that much better than the competition. In 2007, ALBe earned his first Grammy award for his work on Kanye West’s multi-platinum album “Graduation" —writing and producing the song “Good Night”featuring Mos Def. This was a huge stepping stone for ALBe’s career. 

The Def Poet has already appeared on MTV, BET and a major motion picture, and has collaborated and rocked live shows with Swizz Beatz, T.I., Mos Def, MC Lyte, KRS-One, Dead Prez, Gym Class Heroes and Olivia. This kid from the boogie down Bronx will not and can not be stopped. ALBe’s path to greatness is already illuminated on the big screen, small screen and now your screen as his debut album is set for its09 release.

“Hi.” is the upcoming experience from ALBe BACK. The highly anticipated project movie/music fusion is now looked at as the new sound from a voiceless city (Bronx,Ny). The live show is like theater with a twist. The music is absolutely undeniable. And the dream is no longer just a dream. Nobody knows what they want, until you give it to them. Well...here it is.

Hi. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/albe+Back">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.