There are currently at least four bands using the name Alchemy -

1. Alchemy are a 5-piece band based in London, UK playing an upbeat mix of hip hop, indie and pop.

Alchemy’s stated mission is to make you dance and their irresistible rhythms and deep bass grooves will soon have you moving your feet. Coupled with edgy guitar riffs, thought-provoking lyrics and catchy, sing-along melodies, Alchemy have songs that you will want to hear again and again.

From the pop power of “Welcome” and the lyrical beauty of “My Love”, to the infectious grooves of “Better Days” and the more subtle, reflective tracks like “Mea Culpa,” Alchemy have created a diverse, unique, and undeniably infectious sound.

http://www.thisisalchemy.co.uk

2. Alchemy are a new 5 piece Rock band from Lincolnshire in the East Midlands, UK. Originally forming in 2010, the lineup was complete in early 2011. Bringing a Grungy, Hard Rock sound, with hip hop influenced percussion, Alchemy are a breath of fresh air.

http://www.facebook.com/alchemymusic

3. Alchemy began as the musical collaboration between Dawn Zoe and Kriyatrix. They met in 1999 and began creating thereafter. Kriyatrix was enrolled in an audio engineering program at CDIS, while Dawn was experimenting with accordion, guitar, voice and piano.

While performing at “Alchemy”, Oracle Gathering 7, they met Adrian Blackhurst, who joined Alchemy in 2001, adding his eclectic samples to the mix.

Alchemy has been taking a break since 2003, with Kriyatrix, Dawn and Adrian exploring individual creative pursuits.

http://www.myspace.com/alchemymusicproject

4. The ALCHEMY Project From Greece Was Created In June Of 2006.The Creator And Composer Of The Project Is LEZZ. In 2008 And After Many Experimental Work it..s Ready The 1st Promo Demo ..Psychotic Reaction...Now 2 Years Later Its Ready The 2nd Promo Demo Called Trip Out.....Noisily And Hopping Finaly For A label. Enjoy Alchemy And Support... 1st PROMO DEMO [PSYCHOTIC REACTION] 01. Intro X. 02. Frenzied. 03. Psychotic Reaction. 04. Sadistic Motherfucker. 05. Made In Machine. ALCHEMY: Intro X Song On SUBliminalRECordings VOL.1 

http://www.myspace.com/alchemyofficial

5. Alchemy is a two piece metal band based in Fall City, Wa. They released their self titled debut in 2004. Featuring the talents of Paul English on vocals and keyboards and Mike Krutsinger (In Memorium) on guitars, bass, and drums.  

6. ALCHEMY was formed in Athens since 2006 by one female member. Influenced by the Power Noise and general Industrial music scene. Released a promo album "Psychotic Reaction" in 2008. In 2010 ALCHEMY released another album "Trip Out ...Noisily". Current location of ALCHEMY is now Brussels, Belgium.

7. Alchemy is an American rock band from Atlanta, Georgia, formed in 2012 by Sami Michelsen, Nick Whitson and Sean Michelsen. The debut self-titled CD, released on May 25th 2013, is described as an intense blend of Rage against the Machine, Portishead, and Muse… meets Adelle.

Alchemy’s first single, “Resistor”, was featured on Atlanta’s Rock Station 105.7, and the band has performed at Rock 100.5’s “In The House”, as well as dozens of shows all over the Atlanta area. Known for their explosive presence and performance, Alchemy’s shows have been promoted in magazines such as Creative Loafing and Examiner. For the last year, Alchemy has been building their reputation as a band with a distinct sound and a genuine tenacity in the music they create.

Download the new album at: noisetrade.com/alchemyrock/alchemy <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ALCHEMY">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.