Alcoholika La Christo is a Gothic Metal band from La Paz,Bolivia. VIKO PAREDES was born, in La Paz ,BOLIVIA He began ALCOHOLIKA in La Paz in 1992. later he moved to New York where he formed Alcoholika with american musicians, recording their first album, AGONIKA was released in 1995 .and Alcoholika's original sound was essentially Heavy Metal that was more melodic than the music for which Viko would become known. In the incarnation of ALCOHOLIKA.. The original line-up consisted mainly of : VIKO (singing and playing guitar), MARCELO PALACIOS( bass), MANUEL QUINO (GUITAR), MONIKAKEGEL (keyboards), and GUERY BRETEL ( drums). LA CHRISTO was released 1997 .The music was gothic metal techno industrial, and the sound was harsher and more aggressive than what Alcoholika had recorded before. This would prove a pivotal move in the course of Alcoholika la Christo. A video for "Witches & Vampires" aired twice on MTV Headbangers ball. Inspired in Bolivian native instruments and Andean music, Viko went back to Bolivia where he recorded the 3rd album TOXICNOLOGY (2001), including a fusion of industrial music with andean music in the song Raza de Bronze album release 2001 .The video aired on MTV Videorama. The second single for this album, released in mid-July, was Je te aime desolation, a gothic song sang in french by a female voice. This album's songs cover a range of genres: " has the flavor of gothik metal, ", "tristezza" is a melancholy piano piece, Je te aime desolation in the vein of theather of tragedy. Indoustrial messia la bestia Penetration was influenced by early " is tinged with industrial metal in the vein of Ministry, Rammstein." Witchcraft Depression Ettiene could be considered dark electronic pop in the style of Depeche Mode. And the heavy influence in Toxicnology, Crimelinks, Kannibal, Nazisweihn,and Dunkelheit by bands like Sepultura ,Slipknot, Pantera, Fear Factory, and Nine Inch Nails. In 2006, a soundtrack from the movie "Quien Mato a la Llamita Blanca" was released.  Titled  "Nacion Alcoholia", the soundtrack is available only in Bolivia (2006). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alcoholika+La+Christo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.