Alexandra Stan (born 10 June 1989 in Constanța, Romania) is a Romanian vocalist. Her career began in 2009 when native music producers Marcel Prodan and Andrei Nemirschi heard her singing at a Karaoke bar and proposed her a contract with their own management, Maan Studio. She subsequently released her debut recording "Lollipop (Param Pam Pam)" in late 2009. The song and its video were met with bad reviews, being criticized for their eroticism. Her next single, "Mr. Saxobeat", was composed by Marcel Prodan and Andrei Nemirschi, the duo that discovered her at the Mamaia Music Festival. It became her worldwide breakthrough hit, selling 1,000,000 copies in less than a year. The single went to number one in a total of nine countries and reached the top ten in over thirty countries, such as New Zealand, the United Kingdom and Australia. It became a top-thirty hit in Canada and the United States. She released her debut album in August 2011, entitled Saxobeats, which reached the top thirty album charts in several European countries, including Germany, Austria and Finland. The record spawns her next single "Get Back (ASAP)", which gained success in several more countries, notably in Romania, Finland and France.

Stan released "Lemonade" as the lead single from her then-upcoming studio album. The song charted majorly in more European countries and was certified Gold by the Federation of the Italian Music Industry. She then released "Cliche (Hush Hush)" and "All My People", the latter being a top-twenty hit in Japan. Her second studio album was due to be released in summer 2013, but was delayed due to Stan being assaulted by her ex-manager and boyfriend Marcel Prodan after an argument about her revenues. She appeared on several Romanian TV channels with a swollen face and eyes. Stan and Prodan met for the first time face to face at a court in Constanța on June 4. Stan's second studio album was finally released on August 27, 2014 exclusively in Japan, under the label Victor Entertainment. Entitled Unlocked, it reached number twenty-one in the Japanese album chart and number one in the iTunes chart after just few hours. "Dance" and "Cherry Pop" were the record's lead singles, which became popular in Asia after their successes in Japan. Unlocked was released worldwide on November 24, 2014. The international edition included the song "Vanilla Chocolat", which features guest vocals by Connect-R.


Official site: http://www.alexandrastan.ro/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alexandra+Stan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.