There are more artists using this name:

Alexia by name of Alessia Aquilani (born May 19, 1967) is an Italian singer. Before recording in Italian in the 2000s, she made records in English in the late 1990s. Many of those were international hits. Before her solo career she was the vocalist of Ice Mc.
She started working for Italian producer Roberto Zanetti (better known as Robyx) in 1990, as a back-up singer to several of Zanetti's eurodance acts, including Double You and Ice MC. In 1994, the whole world danced with the songs Think About the Way, which was later included in the soundtrack of the movie Trainspotting, It's a Rainy Day and Russian Roulette. In 1995 she had her first solo single, Me and You, on Zanetti's label, ZYX Music. This was followed by a variety of singles which were collected, along with original tracks, in her first album, Fan Club, published in 1997 by Sony Music's subsidiary Dance Pool. Summer is Crazy, Number One and Uh La La La are the most popular tracks from this album.

In her second album, The Party, Alexia started moving from eurodance to pop music. The most successful song, The Music I Like, is a clear eurodance track though. Happy is the title of her third album.

In 2002, she abandoned eurodance and started singing almost exclusively in Italian. She made her first appearance at the Sanremo Music Festival in 2002, coming second with Dimmi Come, and returned the following year, winning with "Per Dire di No".

In Italy, her most successful album was 2004's Gli Occhi Grandi Della Luna (Moon's eyes) which features the international hit You Need Love written by Diane Warren.

Alexia has sold over 6,000,000 albums worldwide.

         ---------------------------

Alexia Vassiliou better known as "Alexia", (born February 5, 1964), is a Cypriot singer who represented Cyprus twice in the Cyprus in the Eurovision Song Contest, first with the musical band Island, and then by herself.

        ----------------------------

Alexia is also a Latin singer on the Vision label.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alexia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.