Alexander Tucker is an English musician from Kent who writes, records and performs alone and in collaboration with a varied array of artists. His first musical position was singing in hardcore band Suction in the early 1990s, who according to Tucker "played noisy adolescent punk with leanings towards Swans and Fugazi." His next job was as vocalist of post-rock hardcore 5-piece Unhome who released one album "Short History of Houses" (Unlabel) and a split single with Papa M. Unhome split in late 1999 and Tucker went on to tour the UK with Detroit space-rockers Fuxa, playing synths.

Tucker had meanwhile been developing his interest in improvisation using detuned guitars, tape loops, mini disc player and fx pedals. In early 2000 he recorded a solo self-titled album of acoustic finger-picking, experimental electronics, field recordings and spooked vocals, which was picked up by Tom Greenwood of Jackie-O-Motherfucker and released on his U-Sound Archives label. Further years of writing and recording led to an increase in interest and a new record deal with the All Tomorrow's Parties affiliated ATP Recordings label, for whom he released Old Fog in 2005. Both of his first two albums were recorded on a digital 8-track when Tucker lived in a flat above Warren St. tube station.

Due to the wider audience gained through this release, more collaborations followed, including work with Stephen O'Malley of Sunn O))) & Khanate on his Ginnungagap side project, and in 2008 as Stephen O'Malley & Alexander Tucker Duo. Other collaborations have included providing the soundtrack to Lali Chetwynd's performance piece at Tate Britain and playing with JOMF, Duke Garwood, Little Wet Horse and more recently with members of Guapo under the name The Star Gazers Assistant. A second album on ATPR, Furrowed Brow was recorded in his home county of deepest darkest Kent and released in November 2006.

Tucker is also a visual artist, creating artwork for all of his album covers and side projects, including ongoing drawings and comic artwork for 'Sturgeon White Moss' (White Moss Press) and an album cover for Polish doom-master Wolfmangler.

The start of 2008 saw Tucker out on tour throughout the UK with label-mates Fuck Buttons. The live debut of Stephen O'Malley & Alexander Tucker Duo is set to feature as part of the London date of Owen Pallett's Maximum Black Festival.

A third album, which has taken over a year to complete and is to be named Portal will be released in the first half of the year, again on ATP Recordings. Before then Tucker will release an edition of the same label's double 7" single project entitled Custom Made. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alexander+Tucker">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.