Singer-songwriter and producer Alex Isley was drawn to music and performing at an early age. Musical talent runs in her family roots, noting that Alex's father Ernie Isley, and her uncles together, make up the widely-known soul group The Isley Brothers. From beginning performances in the living room to elementary school talent shows, she started to develop a passion that would lead to a career as a musician. She began classical vocal training and at the age of 12 would later attend the LA County High School for the Arts, where she discovered a love not only for listening to, but performing jazz as well.

Jazz greats such as Ella Fitzgerald and Kurt Elling left an immense impression on her and her approach to performing, which she incorporated into her performances as a Jazz Studies major at UCLA. During her college years, Alex began songwriting, drawing from her own personal experiences as well as those of friends and family. She wrote most of what would later become her self-written and produced debut EP, The Love/Art Memoirs, which was released to positive reception in 2012. This was followed up over a year later with the album Dreams in Analog, which featured the song "About Him". Her second album L U X U R Y was released in December 2015, with a sole guest appearance from Kenyon Dixon.

In 2018 and 2019, Isley respectively released the first and second parts to her EP The Beauty of Everything, which featured the duet with SiR "Love On-Demand" as well as "Road to You". November 2019 saw Isley collaborate with producer Jack Dine for the EP Wilton. Their musical relationship would continue into the next year with the singles "Gone" and "Good & Plenty", the latter of which would have a remix with Masego and Lucky Daye released in March 2021. In November, Isley & Dine released the single "Still Wonder" featuring jazz musician Robert Glasper, and is expected to appear on the duo's upcoming album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alex+Isley">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.