There are multiple artists that have recorded under the name Aline

1. Aline was a French yé-yé singer active in the mid-60s. In 1966 she released the EP "L’éducation / Parle Avec Les Yeux / Écris-moi / Censuré".

2. Aline is a French musical pop rock band formed in 2009 as Young Michelin. But the band had to change their name after the tire company Michelin demanded the change. Originally the band was made of 5 musicians based in Marseille, namely Romain Guerret on guitars and lead vocalist and of guitarist Arnaud Pilard, bass player Romain Leiris, drummer Vincent Pedretti and keyboard player Laurent Maudoux. When Maudoux left in 2011, he was not replaced, renderring it a 4-member band.

Prior to Young Michelin, Romain Guerret had another music project named Dondolo, and had released two albums (Dondolisme in 2007 and Une vie de plaisir dans un monde nouveau whose release was postponed to 2010.

But by 2009, Guerret had started the Young Michelin project with a number of releases. It also found great reception and in 2009 their first digital single as Young Michelin ("Je suis fatigué" / "Les Copains") earned them the top award at "CQFD: Ceux qu'il faut découvrir" organized by Les Inrockuptibles. They also released a vynil EP in 2010 made up of 4 songs ("Je suis fatigué" / "Elle m'oubliera" / "Obscène" / "Teen Whistle") on La Bulle Sonore label.

In 2011, they released jointly with Pop at Summer a split EP under the title Elle et moi and in 2012, yet another vynil EP of their own containing 4 songs ("Je bois et puis je danse" / "Hélas" / "Deux hirondelles" / "Je bois et puis je danse (Gambit Mix)"). This latter was their first release as Aline, the new adopted name of the band.

Aline's debut album was released in January 2012 on IDOL/PIAS France label and titled Regarde le ciel. The album is produced by Jean-Louis Piérot (ex member of Les Valentins) and recording and mixing is by Philippe Balzé. Laurent Maudoux did not take part in the album citing "personal reasons". Although there was no replacement of the leaving keyboardist of the band, in live shows, Jérémy Monteiro takes part without becoming a permanent member of the formation. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aline">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.