There are several bands with the name Alioth

1. A heavy metal band from Spain
2. A death metal band from the USA (Chicago, Illinois)
3. An anarcho-punk band from Poland
4. Sludge/doom metal from San Diego, California

Bandcamp

Alioth from Chicago, IL, USA, founded 2001, was the solo project of Wargoat Obscurum (Cult of Daath), who released one demo in 2003 Channeling Unclean Spirits in the old Greek black/death metal style, i.e Varathron, Rotting Christ.

The Spanish Alioth was founded in 2001 by Juanjo, Santi and Javi. After recording a demo and the “enlistment” of Arnaldo and Álvaro, line-up was fixed by 2004. A lot of shows and the record of two more demos launched Alioth to release their first album “12 historias” in 2007, recorded by the engineer Carlos Lillo at RIMSHOT Studios, produced by Manolo Arias (Atlas, Ñu, Niágara..) and mastered by Mika Jussila (Nightwish, Children of Bodom, Him, The 69 Eyes…) at FINNVOX Studios.

The first Alioth album received great reviews from the media and a warm welcome from the audience. The strength, sound and variety in styles and lyrics show that the band is far from stereotypes. From the hard rocker “Sólo una noche” to the thrasher “Perros de Pavlov” going through the emotive “Madera de Encina”, the album songs grown on every kind of listeners and made very difficult to categorize the band. Also, in 2008, Alioth is chosen in second place as surprise band of the year by “Los + mejores” readers.

In 2009, Alioth records the second album. It’s recorded by Carlos at RIMSHOT too, produced by Manolo Arias and mastered by Mika Jussila at FINNVOX. With an outstanding evolution in sound and songs, it’s published on June under the title 30º Norte.... It contains twelve more songs where the band makes even clearer their intentions. It also includes a “Bonus Track” where they show, among other things, that they really enjoy what they do. For the good and the bad things, Alioth do what they want, they way they want, and always thinking in the final aim of their music: emotion and excitement.

Current lineup
Alvaro Sanchez - Vocals (Dama Blanca)
Javier Marsella - Rhythm Guitar
Juan Jose Sancho - Lead Guitar
Santiago Marsella - Bass
Arnaldo Matute - Drums (Crienium)

Track listing of "30° Norte..." album
01 - Oceanos De Arena
02 - RDBB
03 - Diferente
04 - Cuento De Hadas
05 - 30 Grados Norte - La Latitud De Los Caballos
06 - En El Camino
07 - Conciencia Universal
08 - Un Dia Mas
09 - Noche Eterna
10 - Solo Ante Ti
11 - Dejarte Atras
12 - Danny Boy
13 - Bonus Track <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alioth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.