ALKERDEEL spits out droney black doom metal with blown out practice space production, grinding guitars, blasting distorted drums, filthy super sick vocals, with bursts of sludge and stretches of loping minimal.

The band was originally raised as a three piece garage jam project (only guitar, drum and voice, no bass) in 2007, to satisfy a hunger for filthy and lousy music. All sessions were partly improvised and recorded on a tapedeck. Blesken, of Sylvester Anfang fame, got his hands on one of the recordings, recognized its rough value, baptised the bastard as 'Luizig' (lousy) and released the tape on a ridiculously yet logic amount of 66 tapes through his label, Funeral Folk. Ofcourse it sold out in no time and even before the thought of a re-release, Al from Scotland's At War With False Noise offered to give 'Luizig' a proper cd-release through his label. A repress followed shortly after due to increasing demand. By the time the band started to play live sporadically and on the brink of writing new songs, long time friend QW joined on bass. Not only his psychedelic drones elevated the music to untrodden fields of intoxication, the subterranean blasts from his speakers chopped many spectator's head clean off. Stages were crushed with a.o. Wolves in The Throne Room, Aluk Todolo and Lugubrum. After the recording of 'The Bollaf!', an EP released by Universal Tongue which even contained an Ildjarn medley, Blesken from S.A. entered again. Famous for his analog and first take obsession, he captured the erupting volcano that is Alkerdeel live to tape, giving birth to 'The Speenzalvinge', the actual debut album which got Roadburn's 'Album of the day' approval stamp. The album opened doors to play at (in)famous festivals such as Ashes To Ashes Doom To Dust, Incubate, Aurora Infernalis and now recently the amazing Roadburn Festival. The difference between these different festivals marks Alkerdeel's schizophrenic and disturbing nature: whether to play a doom, indie or black metal audience, souls are captivated regardless. Now there is 'Morinde', the new album to be released in 2012 by Consouling Sounds (a.o. Amen Ra, Aderlating, Aidan Baker) from Ghent, the band's homeground. Four tracks fearlessly walking the valley of black, doom, sludge and even war metal. Recorded live, without overdubs, in one night with an honest mastering by Tom Kvalsvoll from Strype Audio (a.o. Dodheimsgard, 3th and the Mortal, Aura Noir, Darkthrone…),  'Morinde' confirms Alkerdeel's punk attitude to making music: what you hear is what you get! Only live is real! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alkerdeel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.