Since forming in early 2010, ALKIRA have made a name for themselves as a young group of talented musicians with a brutal live show. Hailing from the small country town of Strathalbyn in the Adelaide Hills, this four-piece metal band have taken inspiration from all eras and incarnations of heavy metal and punk, with particular roots in old-school thrash, to developed a unique sound which can be appreciated by all music fans. 

After gigging consistently throughout 2010/11 and finally settling on a stable line-up, ALKIRA released their debut EP "Down From the Hills" in March of 2012. In support of this they embarked on a mini-tour to Melbourne, which included an infamous show with Frankenbok at the Cherry Bar. Later that year they landed the support slots for American heavy metal legends Fear Factory and US thrashers Warbringer, receiving great receptions from crowds who had not previously witnessed this young thrash metal band.

So far, 2013 has seen ALKIRA play two headlining shows in Perth as well as the inaugural Blacken The Globe Festival in Alice Springs, headlined by King Parrot. In May they supported legendary Australian thrashers Hobb's Angel of Death and were also included in the line-up for Adelaide's biggest metal festival in recent history, 'The New Dead #4', alongside some of Australia's most successful bands, including: Psycroptic, The Amenta, Ne Obliviscaris, Frankenbok, Ouroboros and more. 

In June they released their second EP 'Red Devil', mixed and mastered by Darren 'Jenk' Jenkins (Deprivation, Mortal Sin), which received very positive reviews, with The Metal Observer labelling it "easily their favourite metal release of 2013 so far" and a "modern-day thrash classic". In support of its release, ALKIRA travelled to Brisbane in July for Dead of Winter Festival, which featured some of the biggest and best bands Australia has to offer, headlined by the mighty King Parrot.

The coming months will see them travel to Victoria for a number of high-profile shows, including Murderfest for FRANKENBOK's DVD Launch.

Always keen to play gigs, no matter how big or small they may be, this young metal attack will always draw a crowd! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alkira">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.