All Tomorrows is a professional band made up by four individuals seeking to establish a demanding quality standard in extreme music. It is a band that has complete control over the creative and execution processes, from the idea inception to the achievement of a complete and accomplished artwork. There is no place for loose ends, no time for "filler" songs; All Tomorrows' filter allows passage only to the creative energy of highest quality and condenses it into a unique, impersonal and infinite mantra.

The band's birth begins when producer and guitar player Pepe Lastarria starts looking for band-members for a serious extreme-music project. Without even thinking it he joins forces with Pablo Martinez, performer, teacher and drummer in the band "Humana", which has been and currently is co-produced by Lastarria. Martinez shared the same ambition: to develop his talents as performer and musician in an energetic and high demand environment. With only one rehearsal under their belt another key piece of the band revealed itself. Composer, fractal artist and guitar player Ramon Pasternak shares with Lastarria his desire of starting an extreme band. The rehearsals begin with haste and the compositions start to flow. After a long search the band finally finds the missing piece of the fractal puzzle that is All Tomorrows. Bass player Rodolfo Otero joins the band, proving his talent by learning the existing songs in record time and quickly integrating himself into the creative process of the new material. The recording of "Opilion" begins, practice continues and the band strengthens, taking its definitive form.

With their first album completed, All Tomorrows musicians keep working on new songs for a second release. The band's aspiration is to find its place among the most prominent representatives of the genre, to reach world-class stages and to keep creating quality art. All Tomorrows no longer is some musicians' side-project; it is an unstoppable being that has taken its own meaning, that extends its surrounding arachnid legs, creating a unique audible/visual experience.


Lastarria - Vocals/Guitars
Pasternak - Guitar/Backing Vocals
Martinez - Drums/Backing Vocals
Otero - Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/All+Tomorrows">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.