All-4-One is a male soul and rnb group, best known for their hit single "I Swear" from their self-titled 1994 debut album. "I Swear," a remake of the country hit from John Michael Montgomery, won the 1995 Grammy Award for Best Pop Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal and enjoyed an eleven-week run at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 as well as a seven-week run at #2 in the U.K. Praised for their four-part harmonies and smooth sound, they had their most success in the 90s.

The group is comprised of Tony Borowiak, Jamie Jones, Delious Kennedy, and Alfred Nevarez. All of them were from the Mojave, California City, and Hesperia areas of California. As stated before, they are best known for "I Swear", which was also nominated for Song Of The Year at the Grammys (as was the single "I Can Love You Like That", another remake of a Montgomery country song, the following year). All-4-One almost became transatlantic chart toppers, blocked only by Wet Wet Wet's cover "Love Is All Around" (originally by The Troggs) for the soundtrack to the 1994 film 'Four Weddings and a Funeral' (that cover spent 15 weeks at number one in the U.K. Singles Chart). 

Many people often mistake All-4-One songs for those done by Boyz II Men, another popular 90s R&B group. This is due to their very similar music style as well as the fact that both artists had the height of their popularity in around 1994 or so. At any rate, All-4-One achieved considerable airplay for years afterwards.

However, declining sales led to the group leaving the Atlantic Records label after the release of the album 'On and On' in 1999. Still, even the shift in labels did not help shore up the group's flagging popularity, as the follow-up album, 'A41', and its lead single "Not Ready 4 Goodbye" both failed to chart in the U.S. (although their next single, "Beautiful As You", was a minor Adult Contemporary hit). Their 2004 album, titled 'Split Personality', was given an Asia-only release.

All-4-One later signed a new record deal with the label Peak Concord. Their seventh album (and, to date, their latest), titled 'No Regrets', came out in September 2009. That release is perhaps best known for featuring the song "Key to Your Heart". As well, the group's iconic singles "I Swear" and "I Can Love You Like That" have continued to receive airplay and praise over the years.

Website: http://www.all-4-one.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/All-4-One">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.