Allah-Las are an American rock band from Los Angeles, California, formed in 2008. The band consists of Miles Michaud (vocals, guitar), Matthew Correia (percussion, vocals), Spencer Dunham (bass, vocals), and Pedrum Siadatian (lead guitar, vocals).

The group was founded in 2008, when school friends Matt Correia and Spencer Dunham met Pedrum Siadatian while working together at Amoeba Records in Los Angeles. They began jamming, and together with Correia and Dunham's fellow school friend, Miles Michaud, formed the band. They released their first 7-inch recording in 2011, "Catamaran/Long Journey", produced by Nick Waterhouse for his Pres label. In 2012, they released a second single, "Tell Me (What's On Your Mind)/Sacred Sands", produced again by Waterhouse but this time for their new label, Innovative Leisure. One reviewer commented that "their sound is steeped in the pop sensibilities of The Zombies, The Kinks and The Yardbirds, laced with Northern Soul, lo-fi funk and the ever-enduring influence of Arthur Lee and Love". Allah-Las were featured in a Daytrotter session in May 2012 and their performance of Catamaran was named one of the top 200 Daytrotter songs of the year.

In September 2012, Allah-Las released their self-titled debut LP, also produced by Waterhouse for Innovative Leisure. The album has been described as "an effortlessly wistful batch of starry-eyed, minor-key beauties that gently ruminate on the usual young-guy subjects: sex, freedom, the ways the former can interfere with the latter and vice versa". In October, 2012, NPR’s World Café featured two songs of Allah-Las, noting that "the music captures the carefree, breezy sounds of California... dreamy romanticism [with] a vibe that can feel both joyous and melancholy".

Allah-Las completed their first tour in 2011, up the California coast from San Diego to San Francisco. They toured the East Coast and Europe during 2012, where their first show in London, UK was described by The Guardian as "a blissful 45 minutes on a cold night". In 2014 they released their second album, Worship the Sun.

The group released their third album, Calico Review, on September 9, 2016, out on Mexican Summer. The album was recorded in Summer 2016 at the Valentine Recording Studio in Los Angeles, CA.

In August 2017, an Allah-Las concert in Rotterdam was cancelled after Dutch police, acting on a tip-off from their Spanish counterparts, stopped a van containing gas canisters near the venue. The event occurred six days after an Islamist terror cell killed 16 people in the Barcelona area.

On November 3, 2017, the band released the EP Covers #1 on Mexican Summer. The EP consists of four covers of songs by George Harrison, Television, Kathy Heideman, and Further. The EP was recorded in Topanga Canyon, CA at the Pump House with the help of Kyle Mullarky. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/AllahLas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.