There is more than one band with this name.

 1) A Swedish "Viking" Black Metal band (Death Metal from 89-93) formed in 1989 by Roger Svensson (ex Marduk) and Dick Georgson on guitar, L-G Petrov (Entombed) on vocals, Mikael Almgren on bass, and Fredrik Andersson (ex Marduk & Triumphator). With this lineup their first demotapeSick World was unleashed in 89. LG Petrov then left to focus on his main band Entombed and Magnus Andersson (Devo from Marduk) took his place on vocals. With Devo on vocals they released a new demo, Eternal Hate in 90. Shortly after Dick Georgson left the group with Devo taking over his guitar duties and continuing as vocalist. Now with 4 members, they released their final death metal demotape in 91 - The Beginning Was the End. 
After a two year break, they released another demotape (Odin äge er alle) this time in a black metal style with viking themed lyrics. Another demo in 94 was released Hövfdingadrapa with new members Martin Gustavsson replacing Devo on vocals and Pär Thornell on rhythm and acoustic guitar. Also, Roger Svensson began performing vocals in addition to being the guitarist.
With this new lineup and style, they recorded their debut album Hymn till hangagud at Unisound studio and No Fashion records released it in 96. After this, Martin Gustavsson left - founding member Mikael Almgren took over his vocal duties and continued on bass. They recorded their second album Blodörnsoffer at Abyss studio and it was released on No Fashion in 97.
Another release, another lineup change - Mikael Almgren left the band and Allegiance continued as a three-piece, recording Vrede again in Abyss studio and No Fashion released it early 1999.



2) An American Hardcore band which was formed in early 2002 as a straight edge band based in San Francisco. Originally Allegiance was John Eightclip, Duane (SSB), Ross (SSB), Nate (SSB) and a member of Breaker! Breaker! who after recording a demo with the band, parted ways with Allegiance. Allegiance played their first show at 924 Gilman street, and were playing out occasionally until Some Still Believe played their last show. This is when Allegiance became a top priority. Although stricken with the many member changes, Allegiance has had the opportunity to tour with both Champion, and Embrace Today, and play some great shows with the likes of Madball, Terror, and Over My Dead Body, as well as the San Francisco date of the 2003 Warped Tour. Allegiance seems to have found their niche, and with a solid lineup of John Eightclip, Duane Harris, Ross Trenary, RJ Phillips, and Isaac Fratini.



3) An Australian Thrash Metal band from Perth, formed in 1990. According to Metal Archives they are on hold, though they were primarily active from the early 1990's to the mid 1990's. After putting out a handful of demos, they released two full length albums, "D.e.s.t.i.t.u.t.i.o.n" in 1994, and "Skinman" in 1996. They also put out a live album in 1995 titled "Time To react." Metal Archives profile: http://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Allegiance/708

4) An English Metalcore band formed in 2005.

5) Japanese Oi! / Streetpunk Band formed in 1996.

6) A Christian Heavy Metal band formed in 1987. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Allegiance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.