There are two bands named Allfather  -  1. A blackened-death metal band from Victoria, BC, Canada   2. A sludge band from Medway, UK


1. Allfather was birthed during the early stages in 1996, in Victoria, BC, Canada. At first, a three piece made up by Justin Hagberg playing guitar, Craig Stewart on drums and Paul Jacobsen doing vocals. This collection created an unreleased demo entitled “Render to the Unlight” (1996). After a while this era faded and Paul Jacobsen took up the duty of playing drums. With the addition of Cam Pipes on bass, Allfather began a new epoch and formed their first independently released recording entitled “Wrath of the Bloodthirsty” (1998); an exploratory six song collection that combined visionary philosophy and raw brutality.

The need to unleash Allfather to the masses soon came and an independent vocalist was needed to do so, allowing kinsman Chad Klassen to take up the post. After playing a number of shows, another recording was completed to encourage label support. A five song promotional MCD (1999) was prepared and again independently released. Focus on ascension and war, dominated the theme of this new release. Another campaign of shows was unchained, to further Allfathers cause.

It was during this effort that a new bass player was introduced: Adam Angus, a strong comrade that would prove very worthy to join the ranks. Soon after this addition, another recording was created (recorded 2001) and Allfather agreed to be in the company of three other cults on a split CD released by Realms of Darkness Productions and Dark Horizon Records. Allfather contributed five songs to this compilation CD entitled “Lead us to War and Final Glory” (2002).

Soon after this recording Allfather parted ways with Realms of Darkness/Dark Horizon Records and began seeking new label support. It was during this time that Invictus Productions took interest in the Allfather horde. Allfather then proceeded to create another recording to be released on Invictus. Entitled “Weapon of Ascension” (2004), this is Allfathers first full length and it promises to be the best Allfather material to date. “Weapon of Ascention” is scheduled to be out in January on Invictus Productions.

Currently Allfather is writing new material and has incorporated a second guitarist into the fold, Jasper van der Veen (formerly of Fluisterwoud). The addition of another guitar player adds a whole new creative dimension to Allfather, and will prove a valuable asset for future song writing and touring.

2. Allfather are Neanderthal sludge/doom/hardcore from the Medway delta of the UK. A four piece band influenced by everyone from Iron Monkey, Electric Wizard, High on Fire, Sleep, Raging Speedhorn amoungst others. Formed in December 2013, their first EP is due to be released in early 2015 followed by follow up gigs in Kent and London. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Allfather">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.