Started in 2003 by Stefano Longhi (drums) and Massimo Gajer (Guitars), Allhelluja quickly became one of European most promising heavy rock newcomers with the addition of charismatic frontman Jacob Bredahl (already singer of the latest extreme metal explosion Hatesphere). Roberto Gelli (bass) completed the line-up and a few years after, it was May 2005, ‘Inferno Museum’, the stunning debut album, was ready to see the light. ‘Inferno Museum’ features 10 tracks described as an explosive mix of Entombed, Motörhead, and Kyuss! Dirty Rockin’ metal at its best, featuring a diabolical lyrical concept inspired by Derek Raymond’s ‘Dead Man Upright’, a real psycho-sex serial killer masterpiece.

It shouldn’t surprise the fact that many well-known metal labels (such as Roadrunner) were interested in the band immediately after listening the first demos. But the guys finally agreed to sign a deal with Scarlet and that was the perfect choice to do: Allhelluja became one of the label’s top-priority artists and ‘Inferno Museum’ a world-successful release, collecting amazing reviews in many important magazines such as Terrorizer, Metal Maniacs, Decibel, Rock Hard, Metal Hammer, Burrn!, Grind Zone, Metal Shock, Rock Tribune, Mindview and high-profile comparisons to artists like Entombed, Down, Unsane, Raging Speedhorn, Gluecifer and Black Sabbath! That’s definitely something to be proud of for a new band who was able to offer a powerful and groovy sound without forgetting the stoner and heavy roots.

September 2006 will see Allhelluja coming back with the second chapter of their short but already exciting career: ‘Pain Is The Game’ is the confirmed title for the new album, again mixed in Jacob’s own studios Smart 'n Hard and mastered by Tue Madsen (The Haunted, Sick Of It All, Heaven Shall Burn, Mnemic…). Another masterpiece is in the air.!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Allhelluja">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.