There are multiple artists with this name:
1) Allure is a pseudonym used by Tiësto
2) Allure is a young Parisian artist coming from the Electro-pop scene
3) Allure was a short-lived emo band in the mid 1990s
4) Allure is a New York-based female RnB quartet


1) Allure is a pseudonym used by Tiësto, or Tijs Verwest. He made several singles as Allure which include "No More Tears", "Rejected", "The Loves We Lost", "When She Left", and "We Ran At Dawn". Most of them can be found on his compilations and all received major airplay by the top DJ's. Especially the track "The Loves We Lost" has achieved anthem status since it was released in 2006 and is famous for its mellow melodic sound and fading vocals.

And In The Year 2011 Tiesto Released A Full Album Under The Alias (( Allure )) with the Help Of Showtek
This Album Was A Magic In Linking The Good Old Trance Styles With The State Of Art Sound Design & Sound Technic Of The Modern EDM
This Album Was A Masterpiece In Composing

2) Allure (alias Lorris Piasco) is a young Parisian artist coming from the Electro-pop scene. His music reflects a rich course. Allure has already explored numerous styles (classical formation, jazz, hip-hop…) but since 2007, he finds through electronic music the energy and the creativity he needs. Musician and composer at once, he uses a vibraphone together with machines to dress his compositions with fancy and charming sonorities. He is a master in the art of contrasts; his works are at once smooth but sharp, elegant and lively, subtle but opened. His debut album "French Kiss" was released in June 2011. In 2012 the album was followed by two EPs called "I Will Change" and "King".

3) Allure was a short-lived emo band in the mid 1990s, similar to bands such as Indian Summer. Their only official release was the song Little Engine, which appeared on the Eucalyptus 2 x 7" Compilation (Tree Records, 1996). They also released a demo cassette entitled "Arms Can't Move... Legs Can't Bend" with 7 Untitled songs.

4) Allure is a New York-based female RnB quartet that formed in the early 1990s. The group consisted of members Linnie Belcher, Alia Davis, Akissa Mendez, and Lalisha McLean. They were the first group to be signed to Mariah Carey's Crave Records. They released their debut self-titled album in 1997. The album featured the gold-selling single "Head Over Heels" (featuring Nas), "No Question" (featuring LL Cool J), "Last Chance", and 1998's platinum-selling "All Cried Out" (featuring 112), a cover of the Lisa Lisa and Cult Jam hit, which is their biggest hit to date.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Allure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.