AlmaMorta (pronounced "al-ma-mor-ta") was born in June 2006.  After several line up changes and changes of musical direction, the latest incarnation got together during a drunken meeting at Bloodstock 2009.  J.P. and Joe met Rick and Jeff and shared a bottle of Jack Daniels while talking about putting together a new band, and Pete was sort of there, looking for a toilet.  

By September, Local Drum god, Marv Parker, joined to complete the coming together of a truly fearsome talented group of indivduals!

J.P, an experienced and skilled guitarist, brings a fire and passion to the band, which has resulted in such great moments as: "Fine, you play guitar, Ill manage the f**king band!".  We also suspect he is "The Count" from Seasame Street!

Bass player Joe Brings a wholesome, calming attitude to the chaos that is AlmaMortA, and many many moments of mirth as well as crushingly heavy bass lines and "righteous" filters!

Drummer Marv Parker (Ex-Furious Horde/Eastern Front) is one of the most talented drummers from the local scene and his studio work with many local artists proves what a musical whore this pimp daddy is!  He dreams of owning a candy pink drum kit!

Vocalist Rick Ashton (Ex-Axis Of Evil/Ritual Abuse) has many hours of experience on the stages of venues all across the UK including the unsigned stage at Bloodstock.  Although he is short on vertical measurements, he more than makes up for it with attitude and aggression.  We call him a Hobbit because he looks like he has had his ring destroyed.

Lead Guitarist Pete (Ex-Ritual Abuse) has an exuberance of talent just waiting to surface amongst his love for aggressive melodic music.  He is also quite cute and drives a sports car, in training for his chosen career as "a guitar god!"  He is also one of those healthy types who "enjoys" running... the bastard!

Meanwhile, Keys player Digi is no stranger to music, having been involved with metal and the music industry in one way or another for many years and maintaining a massive black book of network contacts that is almost as legendary as his multicoloured beard!

AlmaMortA - Coming to a venue near you to totally ruin your year! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Almamorta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.