There are multiple artists with this name:


1. Alma-Sofia Miettinen (born 17 January 1996), professionally known as Alma, is a Finnish singer and songwriter. She first gained popularity in 2013, at age 17, in the seventh season of Finnish Idols where she finished fifth. 

2. Alma (born Alexandra Maquet) is a French singer who represented France at the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 with the song "Requiem", which ended up in 12th place. She released her debut album "Ma peau aime" on May 5th 2017. Her official website can be found at http://alma-music.fr/

3. ALMA is a Bulgarian singer/songwriter. She was born and grew up in Sofia, where she learned to play the piano and the guitar, and started writing lyrics and melodies. She got noticed by one of the top labels in Bulgaria and by Romanian hit producer Cristian Tarcea – Monoir.  The track called “Perfect”, based on her own music ideas and lyrics, was released by Virginia Records as ALMA’s debut single in February 2019.

4. Swedish duo that released their debut album, For Loved Ones and Lost Ones in September 2001 through their own independent label, Peaton Records.

5. German alternative band from Korbach, Nordhessen.

6. Russian electronic project (AlmA).

7. Alma is making her debut in the Midwest US music scene. With carefully crafted lyrics atop summery melodies, Alma sidesteps the shallow musings of many of her pop singer contemporaries without sacrificing the catchy hooks. Her soulful voice carries tunes about love and faith, challenging her generation to rethink their self-perceptions and cultural conventions.

8. Austrian band, blending traditional and contemporary Austrian folk and popular music. See their website http://almamusik.at/ for more details about this group of great young musicians.

9. ALMA is the former name of a London-based ambient group formed in 2014, fronted by songwriter Pete Lambrou. In October 2017, the band changed their name to VLMV.  Pete Lambrou is also a member of Codes In The Clouds and Monsters Build Mean Robots and at VLMV he is joined by fellow Code In The Clouder Ciaran Morahan, VLMV deploy a loop station, multiple delay pedals, a piano and strings to create a slow-moving, high-flying soundscape of luscious gravitas.

10. The 6 punchy musicians of Alma, fond of exchanges, poetry and cultural mixing, combine dub reggae with some furious salsa cubana.

As soon as they met, the musicians of Alma passed a silent agreement: let nothing get in the way of their pleasure to make music, and always express their love for all styles of music. They learned to appreciate and develop the most groovy reggae rhythms, and to mix them with a strong dose of salsa. The addition of electro riffs and dub effects gives to their style a definite modern twist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.