A recent winner of two Exposure Music Awards for Best Male Artist and Best Urban Song, Jethro Sheeran, Alonestar, is an artist fusing both hip hop and urban pop that has seen his live performances described as ”mind blowing – his headline performance at the EMA’s was electrifying!” by Dean Hill of tourdates.co.uk and the Exposure Music Awards.

His recent six-track EP, “Warrior”, featuring collaborations with Ed Sheeran, Rosie Ribbons, Ja Ja Soze and Lifford, is now available on iTunes with the title track recently performed on TV2 fight night live in Denmark with a live audience of 10,000 and more than three million watching on pay per view. Currently playing songs from this EP on the summer festival circuit, he has had enthusiastic responses from audiences across the UK.

About his single Lost and Taken, from the Warrior EP, Alonestar says: "This is the deepest song I've ever written. It's about my daughter, Skyla Rain, and her abduction at three years old to Trinidad by her mother. It's also about my first memory of being lost away from my mother as a little boy and the fear I felt. Writing and producing this song was incredibly personal and hit me deeply."

Lost and Taken

"I love you my baby, you take my air, I'm outta control, I want to escape this feelin, cos my life is nothin without you, I miss you my darling, you take my breath You're living inside me, Can't control my feelings, I'm so lost without you." With a packed schedule including recently appearing in a live U-stream with Ed Sheeran in promotion of Ed's new single, "You need me, I don't need you", from which part of the song was taken from Alonestar's single "Shottas Paradise", he has also been busy signing a 6 track publishing deal with EMI and is in conversation with Universal to use his single "Warrior" for the 2012 London Olympics as well an interview with Josie Gibbons and Ed Sheeran for iFilm London available on Youtube.

About his own work Alonestar says: “My music and writing was and still is my therapy. Words from my song Skyla Rain, (from his 2010 EP Isophase Light) are raw and honest they reflect the frustration and sorrow I felt at the time”. Eddie Gordon, CEO of media2radio said about this single “Alonestar’s Skyla Rain touched me deeply.”

International club and festival performances have earned him a reputation as a consummate showman, drawing enthusiastic crowd responses from London, Morocco, Spain and Denmark (free-styling with The Game and Black Wall Streets, Clyde Carson) to Port of Spain in Trinidad, as well as radio and TV coverage with his music also being described as having a “dark Bristol sound, a class production” by the Evening Post and as "being reminiscent of our early work" by Massive Attack.

“Sounds great – I want to hear more .. letʼs see what we can do”
Nellee Hooper - super producer for U2, Madonna etc.

“Alonestar is refreshing - he could fill a big gap in the music industry globally!”
Roy Merchant - multi selliing platinum producer/mixer

“A great writer and powerful lyricist.”  (Portishead)

“Vibrant sound, Alonestar's vocals run deep.” (Venue Magazine)

http://www.alonestar.co.uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alonestar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.