Alpha Decay is an Epic Progressive Metal band from Tampa, Florida. Started in 2006 by Roy Stegman (keys and synth) and John Allen (lead guitar) originally under the name Zvlfydra. They went through a few line-up changes and changed through many genres of metal (from Industrial, to Black, to Death). Finally, they decided they'd follow a more progressive route (using Metal as a backbone, but relying heavily on Classical, Jazz and World Music to create the sound they wanted). They now needed musicians who could keep up, and decided to drop their current members and start fresh. First to join the new ensemble was drummer JR Daniels who would prove to expand the band's talent and sound. JR's ability to handle the oddities of John's guitar work helped take their writing to a new level of complexity. Matt Larsen (lead guitar), having heard them rehearsing, stopped by to see if they needed a second lead guitar. They decided a triple attack of melody would be optimal, and he was soon added to their ranks. Now with their melody line-up complete, they continued to write and rehearse. They waited patiently for a bassist (auditioning a few here and there). Once they heard Bill Holton, they knew they had their man. He joined the band, and the line-up was thought to be complete (minus vocals). However, JR was getting antsy to tour, and the band was not quite ready. So he decided to leave Alpha Decay for other ventures that would appeal to his style and speed. Now in need of a drummer who could handle JR's percussive rampages, the band turned to Patrick Herbert, who accepted and dominated the challenge. The instrumental line-up was now complete (early 2009), but they were still short one member; they needed a vocalist who could handle their intensity and skills. They are still in search of a vocalist (auditioning constantly for the perfect candidate), and plan to release an instrumental DEMO in April of 2011.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/alpha+decay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.