There are 2 bands listed under the name of Alpine

1. Alpine were a six-piece indie-rock band from Melbourne, Australia. 
2. Alpine is a four-piece Alternative rock band from Scottsdale, Arizona

1. After forming in 2009, national radio station Triple J played their demos on air and awarded them the ‘JJJ Unearthed Feature Artist Of The Week’ blue ribbon before they even had time to prepare their first live show. The band signed to Ivy League Records in August 2010, and released a single, 'Heartlove' a month later. Their first record, an EP titled 'Zurich', was released in November 2010, followed by a second single from the record, 'Villages'. In October 2011, the first single from their debut album, entitled 'Hands' was released. The album is set for release in early 2012.

2012 album from the Australian Indie Rock band. Alpine formed in 2009 and have gone from strength-to-strength ever since. Likened to Phoenix, Lykke Li and The xx, they've held the mantle of triple j Unearthed Feature Artist and have found friends online, on air and on paper. Fusing synths with honeyed harmonies, hypnotic rhythms and bright beats, Alpine appeared on the scene with a set of demos that quickly caught the attention of music lovers around the world. 2010 saw the release of their critically lauded debut EP Zurich as well as tours alongside the likes of Cloud Control, Jinja Safari, The Naked and Famous, Catcall, not to mention their own sold out national headline tour to boot. "A Is For Alpine" is the band's first album and proves why they are one of the most exciting and promising acts in Australia right now.

The band split up in 2019 not long after vocalist Lou James had left the band. Alpine's remaining vocalist Phoebe Baker launched a solo career under the name of Sappho, releasing her debut single Flex in March 2021.

2. Alpine is an alternative rock band from Scottsdale Arizona. They already released a free self-titled EP and are currently working on a full length album. http://www.facebook.com/Alpinemusic/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alpine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.