ALQ was formed in Vanadzor, back in the Fall of 1995, when Andrey «Andrew» Apoyan (vocals) joined the rest of the guys (Arthur Barseghian (guitars), Vahe Terterian (bass) and David Grigorian (drums)) that had got together a couple of months earlier. This was the original lineup of the band. Arthur and David had by that time already written a number of songs that made the base for the further development of the band’s musical and lyrical concept.
The style might be defined as Sabbath-like Heavy Metal with elements of Doom Metal, as both Arthur and Andrew were Black Sabbath fans. Vahe at that time was mostly drown towards bands like Megadeth and grunge-rock. David preferred jazz-rock and fusion and it always showed through his drumming manner and style.
The band started rehearsing in the local officers’ club, and played its first gig in one of Vanadzor’s military units. This was the first try, when only two or three soldiers, true metalheads, stayed in the hall to the end of the shaw. Then followed the open air gig at Vanadzor's central square, September 21, 1995.
In the winter of 1995-1996, ALQ moved to the headquarters of the local TV station, INTERKAP. This was were the first recording of the band was made, on Arthur's 2-track reel-type recorder. The recording had 4 songs, all of which were later included in the first and the only studio album of the band. As at that time Andrew was studying in Yerevan, he couldn't spend much time with the rest of the band, but they were reahearsing extensively and played a great gig in March, 1996, jointly with another Vanadzor band Snack. 

The band's only solo concert took place in June, 1996, on the stage of Vanadzor Puppet Theater. This was the peak of ALQ's popularity in Vanadzor. As bass player Vahe was going to join the army later that year, the band decided to go into the studio. The whole session lasted only a week, while 7 tracks were recorded – three in English and four in Armenian. 

After Vahe left, Arthur tried to find a new base for the band, but at that time David decided to join Lav Eli (aka Snack) and ALQ disbanded. In the Summer of 1998, some people in Yerevan decided to hold a rock fest. Wishing not to miss that event, Andrew calls up his Yerevan friends, who once played in different bands. Thus appears the new lineup of the band – Andrew Apoyan (vocals), Edward “Thrash” Ayvazian (rhythm guitar), Edgar “Top” Topchian (lead guitar), Karen “Coffin” Grigorian (bass) and Arshak “Clap” Lepian (drums). With this lineup, ALQ ZARAATH (ZARAATH was added to mark some style changes, as the band moved towards death and black metal) played two gigs in two rock fests and became quite popular among the metalheads in the capital. But these were the last days of the band, as none of the members had enough free time to spend writing music and rehearsing. 
ALQ existed for almost four years and, to its honor it must be said, it is still remembered by local metalheads as a highly ideological and extremal band.

Original Line Up
Andrew - vocals
Arthur - guitars
David - drums
Vahe - bass

Alq Zaraath Line Up:
Andrew - Vocals
Edward “Thrash” Ayvazian - Rhythm Guitars
Edgar “Top” Topchian - Lead Guitars
Karen “Coffin” Grigorian - Bass
Arshak “Clap” Lepian - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alq">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.