Last known line-up:

Kjell Andersson - vocals
Per Nilsson - lead guitar
Henrik Ohlsson - Drums 
Nicklas Rehn - guitar
Anders Hedlund - bass

ALTERED AEON was formed in 2001 when Henrik Ohlsson (Scar Symmetry, Theory In Practice, Mutant) presented a bunch of songs to Kjell Andersson (Azotic Reign). Back then the band was called THRAWN, a band name that was later changed when the band evolved and wanted a name that more aligned with the lyrical content. Henrik and Kjell agreed on the approach of the music and continued working with Henrik's musical ideas, building a similar vision that they strived to manifest in the music and lyrics. Because of the events with their additional bands it took quite some time before they had developed the sound they wanted for ALTERED AEON. But once they decided to concentrate more on this particular project, their other bands at the time being pushed down the priority list in favor of ALTERED AEON, something truly unique emerged musically and lyrically. Kjell's characteristic voice blended perfectly with Henrik's intricate songwriting and the duo was excited because they knew that they had something special to offer the metal scene.

In 2002 Niklas Rehn was added to the lineup and the band rehearsed a lot of material during that year, picking out the best songs for a future recording. In February 2003 ALTERED AEON entered the Black Lounge studio and recorded four tracks for a demo that was entitled "Light Creates Shadows". Henrik handled the drums, bass and half of the rhythm guitars, while Niklas recorded the remaining part of the rhythm guitars and Kjell handled all the vocals. Per Nilsson, recruited for the recording by Henrik, contributed with amazing solos and the whole thing was produced by Jonas Kjellgren - owner of Black Lounge and member of Centinex, Scar Symmetry e.t.c. The demo was a four track display of insane speed, incredible guitar solos, both brutal and melodic vocals, intense technical drumming and overall great music arranged with intelligence and dedication. Songs like "Dispirited Chambers" and "Patriots of Sin (aeturnum essentia)" defined the sound of ALTERED AEON around that time and songs like "Dreamscape Domain" and "Transcendence Duology" with their barrier-breaking character showed the potential of the band in terms of technicality and speed. All this backed up with a strong lyrical concept dealing with the obscure reality of occultism and individualism certified that ALTERED AEON was going to contribute to the metal world in a major way.

The lineup was completed later in 2003 when Per joined ALTERED AEON as a full member and Anders Hedlund (ex. Theory In Practice-session bassplayer) agreed to join the band. In the summer of 2003, ALTERED AEON inked a three album deal with Black Lotus records - Greece's biggest independent label. The debut album, entitled "Dispiritism", was recorded between February and April in 2004 and showcased 12 songs of even more intense and well-written material compared to the previously released demo. The band had polished their style of music into perfection with songs like "The Resonance of Form in Transition", "Desensitizer" and other highly lethal tracks that was featured on the album. When "Dispiritism" was released in selected countries in November 2004, and later on world-wide in February 2005, it received incredible reviews that was just too numerous to even count. By 2005, the world was struck with awe over "Dispiritism" and readily worshipping the metalworks of ALTERED AEON.

After a show in July 2005, guitarist Per Nilsson decided to leave the band due to personal reasons and ALTERED AEON soon found a replacement in Sami Mäki (ex. Theory In Practice-session guitarist, ex. Audioporn). The band continued to play live with this new line-up from September 2005 and onwards while constantly writing material for a second album. The line-up with Kjell Andersson (vocals), Sami Mäki (solo/rhythm guitars), Niklas Rehn (rhythm guitars), Anders Hedlund (bass) and Henrik Ohlsson (drums) has remained stable ever since.

2006 was dedicated to intense song-writing and preparations for the next recording. Unfortunately Black Lotus records, ALTERED AEON's record label, faced severe economical problems and decided to call it a day in 2006 which meant that the band would have to search for a new record deal. A demo was immediately worked on in late 2006, new songs being written entirely for the new demo and the recording is planned to be completed in early 2007.

Now, in 2007, is more lethal than ever and continues its agenda of world thrash domination. The new demo will be entitled "Reborn as Gods" and it features 4 songs of undeniable quality, intensity and catchiness.

The band is currently on hold.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Altered+Aeon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.