Altera Enigma is the Jazz Fusion influenced Progressive Metal/Rock band of Jason De Ron (the former guitarist of Paramaecium), and Jefray Arwadi (guitarist and vocalist of Kekal). Both these musicians have a career that has seen them record and released nearly 20 albums between them.

While both Jason and Jeff may be more well known for their metal, with Paramaecium and Kekal having both released many critically acclaimed albums of intense, evocative metal, in actual fact both musicians are heavily influenced by Jazz and Progressive music in all it's forms. 

Altera Enigma was formed as an outlet for Jason and Jeff to work together on music that would push their boundaries, challenge them musically and allow them to broaden their horizons and explore progressive music in all it's forms. The addition of Kenny Cheong in 2005, a Jazz Fusion 6 string bassist, allowed Altera Enigma to further develop their Jazz Fusion influences and develop their signature sound. 

In 2006 the band released their first album “Alteration”, which covered musical territories ranging from heavy progressive metal with jazz fusion influences, through to ambient electronica. After the release the band took sometime off to individually work on their other bands, to record and tour, both locally and overseas, always with the plan to get back to writing the next Altera Enigma album as soon as they were able.

Even though they were on hiatus, 2007 saw the addition of drummer Jayson Sherlock, who had played together with Jason in Soundscape, and the two were busy working in Paramaecium, and then inExordium. 

Jason finished up with inExordium in 2008, and after taking some time off completely from music, started writing for the second Altera Enigma release in 2009. Around this time co-founding member Jefray Arwadi decided that he was stepping back from Altera Enigma and music in general for a while.

Through 2009 and 2010 Jason and Kenny worked on writing and recording new material. The band’s second album sees the band developing their Jazz-Fusion influences, while retaining and building on the heavy aspects of their sound.  

As of mid 2011, the album is close to complete with an expected release by the end of 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Altera+Enigma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.