There are four artists under this name:
1)Cleveland Ohio based Christian Rock band.

2)A Christian Rock band from Memphis, TN
Having performed across the Southeast since their formation in 2001, Memphis-based Altered has been captivating audiences wherever they go.  Offering a unique style that blends pure and passionate modern Gospel music with strong overtones of Memphis-bred rock and roll, Altered’s music inspires listeners to engage in uninhibited worship of the Almighty God.  “Their songs have uncommon depth and their musical skills are excellent - an unusual combination these days.  Be prepared to enjoy worship and express thanks to God.  This is great AND Godly music,” says Dana Key, pastor of The Love of Christ Church and former front man of DeGarmo & Key.

In 2004, when the band added lead guitar player and vocalist Memphis Jones to the original lineup of Brent Climer (lead vocals and acoustic guitar), Mike Stoker (bass guitar and vocals), and Todd Rayburn (drums), they knew they had stumbled onto something special.  The band had suddenly risen to a new level, both in their music and in their ministry.  It quickly became clear that Altered had a gift for reaching audiences in a very personal way on and off the stage.  “We want people from any and every walk of life to be able to identify with us through the music we create and perform.  But we deeply believe that the purpose of our mission is to create opportunities for Godly friendships that encourage and build up believers of all ages,” says Jones.

The band found its way into the studio in 2007 to begin recording its third full-length album.  Working with Ardent Records (Todd Agnew, Skillet), they looked to create a tangible and lasting source of encouragement that fans could keep beyond the experience of the live show.  During these sessions, the four members were able to capture performances that would inspire listeners on multiple levels.  The result was thought provoking lyrics and passionate music that offer the listener a promise of grace and
forgiveness from a loving God.

Altered has shared the stage with such acts as TobyMac, Skillet, Rush of Fools, Leeland, The Afters, and Kutless but they aren’t settling there.  They realize there is so much more than just playing on the big stage.  For Altered, the most important issue is connecting relationally with a body of Christ-followers to join in worship and lift up the name of Jesus Christ.

3)Not your average Alt-Electro/Synthpop / Dark Cabaret band! from london/wales
Biography
AlterRed's sound has a style of it's very own, mixing electronic beats and sounds with avante garde piano, then topping it off with strong and soaring vocals. With an array of recognizable influences from Depeche Mode, through David Bowie to Mike Garson and then to The Dresden Dolls and IAMX, the end result is a unique melting-pot of sound and imagery. AlterRed has made a dramatic and impressive i...See more
Description
Not your average Alt-Electro/Synthpop act! 

"Are you half in, half out? Is your dynamic range "Fuck Yeah! or "Fuck off!"? Do you like your synthpop sleazily saccharine & your dark electro cabaret dirty? Do you quite like the idea of something that sounds a bit like IAMX if they used greasepaint to make up instead of MAC? Or Bowie & Perry Farrell & Amanda Palmer having a really bad trip together? Then you'll quite like AlterRed. Self medicated madness is our remit. Love, lust, lunacy & loss are our tales to tell. Music to lose your mind to... The Electro Creep Show will soon be coming to a town near you... Join us..."


4) Altered (Jazz-Fusion)
Jeff Miley - guitar
John Flitcraft - bass 
Steve Holmes - drums

Altered has released two full length studio efforts.

Graphic

Review by Kai Horsthemke / March 2006 - South African Bass Players Collective

Moving to the band’s second album, the title tune by Flitcraft, a vehicle for Miley and Holmes, merges seamlessly into Bug: with Holdworthian guitar, it is slightly less urgent than Graphic. An almost pastoral atmosphere characterizes Digging out, before it settles into a slowish, no-nonsense groove, featuring an intoxicating solo by Flitcraft and Miley un-assumes the reins and Holmes gets a further chance to shine. The bassist’s Two Weeks from Everywhere is a Frisellian, left-of-centre Americana, desert-fusion type of tune; wonderful: an immediate favourite. Percolate, well, does percolate. Hectically creative, it (again) features strong ensemble playing. Miley’s Dr James is a ‘ballad’, for want of a better description, but with an inner propulsion suggested by both the harmonic movement and Holmes’s relentlessly unballadic fills and solo. Reunion, the longest track here, ends the album: again, Flitcraft turns in an unusual solo, before Miley positively soars and Holmes explodes yet again. What a joy it must be to experience this trio live! In conversation with Martin Simpson, Flitcraft mentioned the substantial difference in recording and production between the two albums. Not to this listener, quite frankly: to my ears, both could have been recorded at the same time, under identical circumstances. If you’re fed up with smooth jazz and/or faceless slap-pop histrionics, get into ‘Altered’: the band may just alter your listening habits... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Altered">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.