NYHC. Altercation was a Warzone side project featuring Paul Canade on guitar and Crazy Jay Skin on vox. They recorded 2 demos and a WNYU set. A handful of transmogrified Altercation riffs made their way onto the Warzone self titled LP. 

Members in '87: Jay Vento (Warzone), Paul Canade (Warzone), Myles Reiff, Eddie Coen (Both Worlds, Sick Of It All), Andy Guida (Absolution, Running Like Thieves, Still Born, Supertouch)
Members now: Jay, Paul, Andy, Dan Cav (Absolution, Ressurection, King Dust)

Some other band named Altercation :

A Deathcore band from San Luis Obispo 
Genre
Metal
Members
Ralph Lee - Guitar and Vokills
Will Ottone - Guitars and Gun Cleaning
Joey Atiya - Bass/Vokilla
Kori Harvey - Hits shit
Jo Yopp - Synthetic Waveforms
Hometown
San Luis Obispo, CA
PRIMAL FUCKIN' METAL
Biography
Altercation started out with original members Ralph Lee, Will Ottone, and Joey Atiya when all 3 were in still high school. Altercation changed lineups several times until late 2009 when they linked up with drummer Kori Harvey and his brother (synthesizer) Joe Yopp. Since then the group has materialized into an unstoppable shock wave of brutal, dark, technical metal echoed throughout California's central coast. Known among their hometown fans for their unique and exceptionally heavy brand of primal metal coupled with unmatched performance energy and attitude, Altercation is on a mission: Kick the world's ass with the heaviest music known to man.

Altercation has been playing shows since 2010 and in one year has shared the stage with artists including: Suicide Silence, I Declare War, The Devastated, All Hail the Yeti, Flesh Consumed, and Halo of Gunfire.

In the summer of 2010, Altercation recorded and produced their first 4-track EP "Phase None".

Altercation is planning a second EP release in the summer of 2011 as well as a West Coast tour with brother band Wintersfear. Instead of releasing a second EP, they went ahead and released a full length entitled "Today We Fight."  

Website
http://www.facebook.com/PrimalMetal
http://www.myspace.com/altercation6 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Altercation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.