Formed in 2011 under the working title Gary Busey Amber Alert (GBAA), ALTERBEAST combines the teachings of The Black Dahlia Murder, Necrophagist and Spawn of Possession with the classic death metal mastery of band’s like Dissection and Morbid Angel into an irate expulsion of sonic deviance. Their debut album, "Immortal", will be released via Unique Leader Records 3/18/2014.
indie merch | bandcamp | facebook | youtube | twitter
Formed: 2011
Hometown: Sacramento, CA
Genre: Technical Death Metal | Brutal Death Metal
Record Label: Unique Leader Records

Band
Cam Rogers - Vocals
Rusty Cornell - Guitar
Andrew Lamb - Guitar
Michael Zamora - Bass
Gabe Seeber - Drums (The Kennedy Veil, Decrepit Birth, Abysmal Dawn)

Biography
Sacramento technical death metal militia, ALTERBEAST, is pleased to unleash their full-length debut via Unique Leader this Spring! Titled Immortal, the eight track monster offering was meticulously assembled in several locals throughout 2013. With guitars and bass recorded at Augmented Audio in Los Angeles with former The Black Dahlia Murder bassist Ryan “Bart” Williams, vocals arranged at Mayhemeness Studios in Sacramento by Bob Swanson (Rings Of Saturn) and drums tracked at Castle Ultimate Studios with Zack Ohren (Light This City, All Shall Perish, First Blood, Cattle Decapitation, Warbringer et al), who also mixed and mastered the release, Immortal promises to deliver some of the most dynamic, instrumentally adept and plainly crushing material of the year.

Elaborates vocalist Cam Rogers of the outcome: “Immortal is what was spawned from hard work, dedication, and downright brutal musicianship. It has intricate solos, absolutely crushing interludes and brutal circle-pit anthems. ALTERBEAST sets the scene with grievous piano preceding the onset of ‘Flesh Bound Text’ which comes in with blistering drums and guitars effortlessly making their way around the fret board. Every piece truly has its own personality on this record, whether it’s the apocalyptic soundscapes of ‘Ancient’s Retribution,’ the devastating aggression of ‘Vile Remnants’ or the unmerciful grooves in ‘Throne of Maggots.’ This album has something for every listener and comes together seamlessly to form as a breathtaking whole. Immortal is exactly what we intended it to be: a gripping and intense death metal album.”

They released their sophomore album Feast on February 23, 2018.  Unique Leader Records released it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alterbeast">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.