Álvaro Tauchert Soler (born in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain on 9 January 1991) is a Spanish singer-songwriter. He gained great fame all over Europe with his 2015 hit "El Mismo Sol". A special bilingual Spanish / English version of "El Mismo Sol (feat. Jennifer Lopez)" was also made vying for international release in the United States, UK and worldwide.

Born in Barcelona to a German father and a Spanish mother, he became multilingual at a young age. He moved with his parents to Japan at age 10, staying there until age 17. He took piano lessons very early in Japan. Returning to Barcelona, in 2010 he established the musical band Urban Lights alongside his brother and some friends. The band continued performing music described as a mixture of British pop, indie pop and electronic music building following locally. They won a university music contest and the band appeared in 2013 on the Spanish music casting contest ¡Tú sí que vales! reaching the Final 8. They released some materials and self-produced album. Soler also pursued studies in industrial design at Escuela de Grafismo Elisava, also going to a music school and working with a modeling agency based in Barcelona.

Soler decided to drop the Urban Lights band in 2014 to go solo establishing himself as a musical artist based in Germany. Based in Berlin, he released his single "El Mismo Sol" co-written by Soler and Ali Zuckowski and Simon Triebel (from the band Juli) and produced by Triebel. The song released on 24 April 2015 became initially a huge hit Italy reaching number one on the Italian FIMI and certified double platinum. It also made it to number one on the Swiss Swiss Hitparade singles chart. The single became a pan-European hit for him charting also in Germany, France, Belgium, Austria and the Netherlands.

Based on this success, Soler released his debut solo album Eterno Agosto released on 23 June 2015 on Universal Music.

The first taste of this upcoming re-issue is the song and proper lead single called “Sofia“. The song was written by Alvaro Tauchert Soler, Simon Triebel, Ali Zuckowski, Jakke Erixson and Nadir Khayat (RedOne), who also produced it with his team. The music video directed by Noel Dernesch was filmed in Cuba in March, and it was premiered along the single’s release on April 15th. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Alvaro+Soler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.