There are multiple artists named AM:PM

1) On a starry evening, during a walk in the park after a long day of partying, Daven Masulis and former member, Gabe Selgado, were discussing their band, “The Scenic Route.” “We’ve got good stuff man, but we need some better beats,” stated Gabe. Their current drummer, Antwon’s Bitch Ass, just wasn’t cutting it. “This is true my merry Mexican friend, but who’s got groove?” said Daven. Just then the wonderful and amazing Joe Miller, AKA Joe Mother %&$in’ Miller, came out of the shadows, looking like he had just raped the neighbor’s dog. “Howdy gentlemen, can I interest you in some flavor?” He pulled out a pack of Marlboro Menthols and motioned to the boys. “Nah dude, smokers are jokers, but do you know of any jazzy drummers around town?” Daven responded. A spark lit in Joe’s wise eyes. “Well, today is your lucky day. I just happen to be the most talented percussionist in the Northwest Suburbs.” Gabriel, was sold. “Well golly, I think we should give it a go.” After giving Joe a skeptical look Daven gave his usual nod of approval. “How bout right now?” The artisans began the long trek back to Gabe’s happenin' pad. After a quick setup they began to play. As a surprise to everyone, Joe wasn’t feelin' the music. “Hold up, hold up, hold up,” Daven interjected, “Loosen up bro-ha, 'tis all ‘bout the feelin’.. You just gotta let it flow..” After a deep breath Joe said “Ok dude, I got this.” Bam! Boom! They new style they created was gold. The Scenic Route would be changed forever. “I don’t even feel like The Scenic Route anymore,” stated Gabe, “besides that name is kinda gay.” “Yeah man it’s like I said you just gotta feel it and we weren’t before. From now on we just gotta be musical day in to day out . AM to PM,” responded Daven. “That’s it man, AM : PM,” shouted Joe. “That’s who we are.” And from then on that’s the way it was jammin' and cruisin' to a new wave. People would come and go, like Gabe Selgado who was tragically trampled by a runaway elephant, but the element of inspiration created by Joe and Daven would never fade.

http://www.myspace.com/ampmindie

2) Melodic death metal/deathcore from vevey, switzerland https://www.facebook.com/pg/ampm.metal/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Am:Pm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.