There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Amar Mahmound Al-Tahsh or simply known as Amar is a singer from Tripoli, Lebanon. In 2007, Amar realeased her first video clip "Naro Btihr'ny" which was directed by Mirna khayat. The following year (2008), Amar realeased a second video clip "Alya3ni" which was directed by Fadi Haddad. At the end of 2009, Amar released her debut album "Helwa" and a video clip for the song "Elataba kazaz". Amar is definitely one of the most photogenic and telegenic arab artists. The hottest female celebrity for 2008, winner of the "hal sissane, ttsss ttsss Award". The beautiful sugar coated Amar, was also ranked 15th in top 100 Sexiest Arab woman 2010. Amar's GiGantic Marsian-like billboards plastered all across Beirut and its peripheries also won her the funny title Mars Attacks 2010, given to her by the Banadourad' or Awards. Amar first album "Helwa" was top 10 in Egypt and some Arabian countries for so long.

2) Amar aka amarsthename (themrx) is a Canadian influential rap artist. Amar "the MRX" is a 17-year old artist from Canada with a unique vision and perspective that seems to be going extinct in the modern musical landscape. He's quickly established himself in a very small club of new talent that let the rhyme craft do most of the talking and the acclaim has followed without skipping a beat. Alongside his crew also feature in his music anonymously known as MRXG.  Amars latest singles have been released on iTunes for January 2nd 2013 which would include tittles: Shawty Dance , Dont Start Again  , and, "Drop that". Amar is set to release 5 exclusive tracks through MTV in the month of June 2013. Amar before being an artist was already established in the music and entertainment industry as an actor, manager, and marketing strategist for many major label musicians since 2004. 

http://www.mtv.com/artists/amar/[/officialsite


3) Amar is a pioneering singer/songwriter who after a short hiatus is returning with a glamorous new look and refreshing Indo-Urban pop album, Show It Off. The long-awaited album has been in the works for 12 months and features Amar at her creative best, singing exclusively in Hindi to a backdrop of urban R&B beats.
 
Having worked with the likes of Talvin Singh and Nitin Sawhney, Amar is the now the sizzling Indian muse of internationally acclaimed American superstar multi platinum producer, Timbaland and features on his multi-platinum album Shock Value. 
 
She is also currently working with frequent Timbaland collaborator, the hottest US export producer, songwriter, vocal producer and musician,  Jim Beanz . Amar featured on Jamie Foxx and Chris Cornell's recent albums, as well as in two more songs for the upcoming new Timbaland album Shock Value 2, while he makes a special feature in Show It Off. 
 
Amar's provocative Hindi lyrics, sultry voice and classic style of singing, most notably on Timbaland's sensational single Bombay and Nelly Furtado's chart-busting remix, Maneater prompted a dazzling performance at BBC Proms Electric and has helped bring Indian music back into the mainstream spotlight. 
 
Despite her hiatus, Amar's love of creating music never escaped her. After taking the time to find the right creative and management team to work with, she signed with US-based management company, Sunset Entertainment Group and is currently touring India with Jim Beanz and American boy band Rebel. She will also record two songs with award-winning Bollywood playback singer and pop star, Sonu Nigam.
 
Amar grew up in Walsall, West Midlands and has music running in her blood, thanks to her father, the legendary singer Mangal Singh, whose phenomenal hit single Rail Gaddi is a global Punjabi anthem. Amar herself catapulted to fame as a young girl with her hit single Tu Hai Mera Sanam, a Hindi cover of Dolly Parton's I Will Always Love You, which has also been covered by Whitney Houston.
 
In her teens she moved to London and discovered the Asian underground scene. Amar collaborated with Talvin Singh and features in the remarkable song Jaan on his album, Talvin Singh Presents Anokha Soundz of the Asian Underground. Soon after, she was snapped up by Geoff Travis, who at the time was with Warner Brothers UK, making her the first British Asian girl to be signed by a major record label. 
 
The groundbreaking signing made headlines and she was tipped to be the hottest new artist on the Asian music scene. Her debut album, Outside, produced by Nitin Sawhney and Robin Millar, was a huge success and the single Sometimes It Snows in April fast became a must-play track in the club circuit.

http://www.amarmusiconline.com/
MySpace.com/AmarMusicOnline featured on Promiscuous (Indian Sunset remix, feat. Timbaland & Amar)

4) A Malaysian solo nasyid singer which also talented in magic performance. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Amar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.