There are multiple artists named Amaranth: 1) An atmospheric rock band from Serbia. 2) A black metal band from Canada. 3) A group from Germany. 4) A band from California, USA, renamed Solos.

1) Amaranth is an acoustic / atmospheric rock project from Serbia, founded by Danilo Nikodinovski in the spring of 1999 during the NATO bombing. Danilo is also known as the vocalist/guitarist of Consecration.
"Silent" and "Spleen" were recorded during 2001 and 2002 by two Serbian famous producers, Nikola Vranjkovic (songwriter/guitarist of Block Out) who started the recording, and Dragoljub Markovic Bleq (Marcelo, Autopark) who finished it. The two songs were on hold for a while because the tape recorder broke down, and the studio was moving over to another location shortly afterwards. Vranjkovic commented once that "Amaranth was the most beautiful music he had ever recorded".
After those two recordings Danilo dedicated fully to Consecration. Although there were fans already who were constantly asking about the future of Amaranth, it wasn't until the summer of 2007 when Danilo thought about doing some new Amaranth tracks. There was the idea of special Antimatter show in Belgrade, so Danilo asked his friend Nikola Milojevic to help him out supporting them.
Amaranth played live for the first time on December 4th 2007 supporting Antimatter and Leafblade. The reception from the audience was very warm and supportive, so Amaranth played again - supporting Danny Cavanagh on March 9th, 2008. Danny is Anathema's songwriter/lead guitarist and needless to say he has been a great influence on Amaranth, so the show was real success and a great honour for the band.
Amaranth had a special solo performance on June 26th 2008 with some special guests from their musical soulmates Rain Delay. Amaranth also did some unusual yet interesting covers of Katatonia ("Rainroom"), My Dying Bride ("The Cry of Mankind"), Jesu ("Friends Are Evil") and Black ("Everything Is Coming Up Roses"), which might show up on a future Amaranth studio debut.

2) Amaranth is a black metal band from Canada, founded by Wolven Ancestry vocalist Mark Howitt. Formed in 2008 from a jam session recording composed of riffs and structures written by Mark from 2002-2008. It features Darren Favot, also from Wolven Ancestry on drums.
The recording, entitled "Towards The Sixth Extinction" was never released and is a concept album which tells a story about the fate of the earth and our milky way galaxy, and the theories and controversy based around 2012 and Mayan belief and knowledge, including government cover ups and conspiracy.
A second album entitled "Reflections of Somber Times" was recorded in 2011 at Sardonic Moon Studios, produced by Mark Howitt and Darren Favot and features Dan Favot on drums as well as operatic female vocals by Blackest Orchid.
Other instruments include cello by Darren Favot and flutes by Alex Kennedy. "Reflections of Somber Times" sees Amaranth taking a more post-rock, doom, folk and atmospheric direction but still incorporating black metal as a major influence.

3) Amaranth is a group from Wuppertal, Brandenburg, Germany. Their music is variegate, consisting of compositions in the styles of jazz through blues, samba, pop, new wave, metal, reggae and folk. Also certain rock, punk and funk influences are undeniable.

4) Amaranth is a band from California, United States, founded by Aaron Ross. He is regarded as one of the most talented songwriters in Northern California, a hotbed for new music and art. After joining forces with the band Hella in 2007, Ross and fellow Hella member Spencer Seim changed gears and began to collaborate on a new project, Amaranth. Following a handful of small, intense shows, the band recorded a collection of demos and began seeing interest grow within the music industry.
The band is now called Solos. With new brand they re-recorded songs from "California Demon" album, added some new and released it as "Beast of Both Worlds". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Amaranth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.