1) Amen Corner was a successful British rock group, formed in late 1966 in Cardiff, Wales.

Named after Amen Corner, a small residential area on the edge of Bracknell in Berkshire. Initially they specialised in a blues and jazz-orientated style, but were steered by their record companies into more commercial pastures. Their first singles and album appeared on Decca's subsidiary label Deram, but they left at the end of 1968 to join Immediate, where they were instantly rewarded with a No. 1, "(If Paradise Is) Half as Nice" (based on the Italian hit "Il Paradiso," written by Lucio Battisti and originally sung by Patty Pravo) in early 1969, followed by another top five entry with the Roy Wood composition "Hello Susie".

After recording a live album, Farewell To The Real Magnificent Seven, and a final single, a rather premature cover version of The Beatles' "Get Back", they disbanded at the end of 1969.

While sax players Alan Jones and Mike Smith went on to form Judas Jump, guitarist and vocalist Andy Fairweather-Low led Dennis Byron (drums), Blue Weaver (organ), Clive Taylor (bass) and Neil Jones (guitar) into a new band, Fair Weather. The band scored a UK No.6 hit with "Natural Sinner" in 1970 and recorded one album before disbanding a year later.

Fairweather-Low went on to a successful solo career in the 1970s, notably with the top ten hit "Wide Eyed and Legless" (1975); he became a regular player with Eric Clapton, George Harrison and Roger Waters. He also worked with The Strawbs and the Bee Gees.

Amen Corner's Decca back catalogue has been reissued as part of 'The Collection' series; and their Immediate work, including their singles, live album and material recorded for an unreleased studio album, on If Paradise Was Half as Nice: The Immediate Anthology.

Band members
Andy Fairweather Low (born Andrew Fairweather Low, 2 August 1948, Ystrad Mynach, Hengoed, South Wales) – vocals
Neil Jones (born 25 March 1949, Llanbradach, South Wales; died 8 June 2018) – guitar
Allan Jones (born 6 February 1947, Swansea, Glamorgan, South Wales) – saxophone
Blue Weaver (born Derek John Weaver, 11 March 1947, Cardiff, Glamorgan, South Wales) – keyboards
Mike Smith (born Michael Joseph Smith, 4 November 1947, Neath, South Wales) – tenor saxophone
Clive Taylor (born 27 April 1948, Cardiff) – bass, backing vocals
Dennis Bryon (born Dennis Ronald Bryon, 14 April 1949, Cardiff) – drums, backing vocals

2) Amen Corner is also a Black Metal band hailing from Curitiba, Paraná Brazil. Formed in 1992, they explore lyrical themes of satanism, and paganism.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Amen+Corner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.