Amerie Mi Marie Rogers (born January 12, 1978), known mononymously as Amerie (formerly Ameriie), is an American-Korean singer, songwriter, record producer, actress and author. Her 2002 debut album "All I Have" was highly acclaimed by critics, as was her 2nd album "Touch".  

In 2005, Amerie burst back onto the music scene with her fourth single "1 Thing", which was used as the theme song for the Will Smith movie "Hitch". "1 Thing" went to the top of the charts in various international markets, including the US, UK and others around the world. It earned her a Grammy nomination for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance (the album "Touch" was also nominated for the "Best Contemporary R&B Album" Grammy ).  The album sold an estimated 800,000 copies worldwide and went gold in the US and silver in the UK.

Amerie's third album 'Because I Love It' was released in the UK , Europe and Asia in 2007.  The single "Take Control" was released in October 2006, and it enjoyed international success.  The second single "Gotta Work" did not fare as well in the charts, despite receiving heavy airplay on UK and European music video channels. The album has sold a combined total of 310,000 copies worldwide and is her most critically acclaimed album.

In late 2007, was reported that Amerie had left her label Columbia Records, and signed with the Island Def Jam Music Group.

Amerie revealed the album title to be changed from 'Breakups To Makeups' to 'In Love & War'.  Amerie also announced that her first single off the album will be titled "Why R U?" produced by The Buchanans. The single premiered online in the week of May 11th and received fairly mixed reviews. The track itself is even compared to Mary J. Blige's "What's The 411?" and "My Life" album, because of the old school feel.

Amerie changed her artist name to Ameriie (extra I) in 2010. She said that it gave her more positive energy as an artist. She changed her artist name back to Amerie (without the extra I) with the double EP releases '4AM Mulholland' and 'After 4AM' in 2018.

Right now her main focus is on books, youtube channel and her son and husband. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Amerie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.