Amrita “Ami” Kaur Dang is a vocalist, sitarist, and composer/producer from Baltimore, MD and New Delhi, India. Her sound ranges from North Indian classical fused with noise/ambient electronics to experimental dancepop that comes together to create a new genre she calls “Bollywave.”

Dang began studying music at a young age and picked up the sitar when she was twelve years old.  After years of North Indian classical music training, she studied Technology in Music and Related Arts at Oberlin College Conservatory of Music.  Her current sound references her musical education as well as the grit of the urban landscapes of both Baltimore and New Delhi.  Released in February 2011, her debut album “Hukam” was heralded as #7 among top albums of 2011 by Chapel Hill’s WXYC 89.3 FM and one of the best 30 albums of 2011 by Small World Music.

Upon the completion of her debut album, Dang’s live set expanded to include drummer and producer K8 Levitt.  A Brooklyn, NY native, Levitt began frequenting DIY shows as a young adolescent and, inspired by the movement, took up the drums at age 13. In the recent past, Levitt has performed with the Dan Deacon Ensemble, playing shows such as Bonoroo and Lollapalooza, and was a founding member of the band Teeth Mountain. She is also a current member of the Baltimore-based arts collective Wham City, and continues to be inspired by the interplay between sound and visuals.

Since 2009, Dang has been working with Schwarz, one of Baltimore’s most prolific DJs and producers.  Schwarz has been writing songs and making tapes since kindergarten and is one-third of the DJ crew that throws the dance party Deep in the Game, lauded by Baltimore’s City Paper as “Best Dance Night” in 2011.  He has also produced tracks for Rye Rye, Juiceboxx, Lil Ugly Mane, Sewn Leather, Wish, DDM, DJ Dog Dick, Kevin Jz Prodigy, BBU, and Issue.

Ami Dang's next full-length album “Sun on Our Skins" will be released in early 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ami+Dang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.