http://www.myspace.com/amillionpounds

....And so, from the ashes of Hammer Witch, arose Amillion Pounds. Drummer Sal Torneo and me recruited Chance on bass and my bro, Adam on vocals, harmonica, banjo and onstage rants. We wanted to take the thrash/death metal sound and expand on it, adding more dynamics, moods and influences from other styles of music. Elements of blues, jazz(in approach - for all you jazz-snob purists), psychodelia, groove, middle-eastern, bluegrass can be found throughout our "library" of sounds. In 1995, a year after forming, we released a cassette entitled "Middle American Tragedies". We gigged around Dallas/Fort Worth for years, trying to build a fan base with our abstract approach to metal. We released a cd, "The Long Journey Back From The Brink", in 1999. This cd was a lot more experimental than our previous, introducing a couple more acoustic numbers (a hint towards my current musical direction). The first recording still had a thrash bite to it, considering that two songs, "Angry Redneck Men And Women" and "The Garden Of Organic Refuse" were composed by me and Sal, intended originally for Hammer Witch before the meltdown. The summer of 2004 saw the weight of Amillion Pounds lifted from our shoulders, as the band called it quits, after being stagnant for quite some time. It had gotten so bad that Adam never laid down the vocal tracks on our last four songs. It took a fucking year to record the music, due to schedule conflicts and general lack of interest within the band. We at least had some fun with the last days of Amillion Pounds, booking a mini tour, starting off at Club Indigos in Dallas, then on to Club Zeros in Corpus Cristi, and playing our last show in Austin at Headhunters. Though we had some great response - finally, (and l don't mind saying we rocked the fuck out of those joints) we knew it had run out of steam. All in all, we had a good 10 year run, so I thought I would turn some new people onto what we were doing, as well bring back some memories for the old metal heads - which is the reason for this page. Currently I play solo acoustic guitar instrumentals, and also play mandolin/dobro in a band with brother Adam, The Electric Mountain Rotten Apple Gang. Sal and Chance are now members of the bands Da StinK and PROTEST. Both bands are off-shoots of early 90s D/FW experimental metal band, Cult Seavers. Maybe they'll create a myspace page. They should. -Darrin Kobetich <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/AMillion+Pounds">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.