There  are at least 12 artists by this name:

1) The most popular Amnesia on last.fm so far: the New Beat/Acid House studio project from Belgium, composed of Stephan Novak, Bruno Vangarsse, Pascal Pante, Patrick Cools. It was active during a short period of time, from 1988 till the early 90s, and their first album Hysteria has most definitely helped defining the future sound of the European Techno scene. Most members started a solo career when the band disbanded.

2) Amnesia is a Progressive Doom/Death metal band from Iran , formed by the founders of Frosted Leaves members, Armin Arefi & Ali Seif . 


3) Amnesia was a speed/thrash metal band from Belgrade, Serbia, formed in 1986 by Heller/Rapidforce members. They have only one demo tape, released in 1988.

4) AMENSIA (ＡＭＮＥＳＩＡ) was a japanese rock band, lead by TUSK (ex-ZI:KILL).

5) Brad Laner formed Amnesia in the late 90s after the breakup of the shoegaze/noise pop band, Medicine.  They released two albums, "Cherry Flavored Night Time" in 1997 and "Lingus," which features a collaboration with Beck, in 1998.  Laner has since gone onto the experimental/IDM project, Electric Company, and continues to collaborate with many other artists, as well as produce.

6)  Amnesia was a British thrash metal group active from the late 80s to early 90s.  They have only one album to date, Unknown Entity, from 1991.

7) Amnesia was also the bandname of a Swedish indie/rock Band from Kungsbacka. Though the band only existed for a year or so.

8) AmnesiA was also a Dutch Heavy Metal / Hardrock band, active from 2004 until 2006, who started out covering bands like Metallica, Iron Maiden, Black Sabbath and Judas Priest, before turning to the writing of original material. This resulted however in only one song before the quintet disbanded in september 2006: Fear. The band line-up was John Moonen on vocals, Johan Coenen on Bass Guitar, Erik Verhey on drums, Laurent Schijns on guitars and Max Keltjens on guitars. 

9) Amnesia was also an Italian House project.
 Members: Franco Miccoli, Frank 'O Moiraghi 

10) Rock band from Angola.
Members: Brwko Romero, Arialdo, Xico

11) Amnesia is also Russian band - Sympho Metal / Melodic Metal / Female Vocal.

12) Stoner/doom metal from Portland, Oregon, United States

Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Amnesia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.