Amputated formed in the Spring of 2002, comprising the line up of Morbid Mark (Vocals), Daryl BC (Rhythm Guitar), Simon (Lead Guitar), Sicky Martin (Bass) and Garry (Drums). They had all known each other from the local Bristol scene and got together after the demise of their previous bands, which coincidently happened around the same time. The bands' primary aim was to become the sickest and most brutal band to hit the Bristol metal scene.

Influences included bands such as  Nunslaughter, Gorerotted, Exhumed, Carcass, Cannibal Corpse--but more and more noticeable as the band gained experience--was the increasing presence of more brutal influence from bands such as Lividity, Devourment, Vaginal Jesus, Disgorge (USA and Mex). Also starting to emerge was the presence of the anti-PC nature that was to complement the aggressive live performances.

After several months of line up problems it was decided to continue as a four piece. During this time the first 'demo' was recorded and the first gig played. The 'demo' entitled 'Up to Our Nuts in Guts' caused a huge stir amongst local metal fans and led to an opening slot supporting Necrophagia and Exmortem, where the full fury of the live show was unleashed on an unsuspecting crowd. Several months later, the band supported Desecration which would lead to the 'Des' mainman Ollie Jones (now also a member of grinders Extreme Noise Terror) joining as second guitarist.

Word was quickly spreading about the aggressive and unrelenting nature of the live shows and this led to the 'demo' being picked up by IBD Records, who, in January 2004, re-released 'up to our nuts...' as part of a split CD with Leptotrichia of Belgium. Soon after the release there were more line-up changes and the CD was to lead to the band's first tour supporting Disgorge (Mex), Sanatorium, and Gorerotted, a slot on the Obscene Extreme 2004 bill alongside bands such as General Surgery, Blood, Prostitute Disfigurement, and shows with Necrophagia, Incantation, Avulsed, and Deicide to name-drop a few, as well as headline shows throughout the UK.

In early 2005 the band entered Endless Studios in Birmingham, UK to record its debut full-length album entitled 'Gargling with Infected Semen'. As well as showcasing new material, the band chose to re-record 2 tracks from the 'demo' as well as a cover of 'Immersed in Pain' by Jungle Rot. The recording was to remain as raw as possible to retain the natural aggression of the band's music but at the same time sound professional.

Their long-awaited second studio effort 'Wading Through Rancid Offal' was released on November 2nd 2009; the band appeared at the London Deathfest and have also been confirmed to play at Death Feast Open Air in 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Amputated">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.