"Doing something original when the most commercially viable option is to do exactly the opposite requires large testicles and a strong sense of identity." - Metal Hammer (on Ana Kefr)

"It’s clear from the word 'go' that the very last thing they’re interested in is playing to singalong industry/scene expectation. In spite of the epic scope of the music, the songs are rooted firmly at street level. Ana Kefr never get lost in their own brilliance." - Brave Words and Bloody Knuckles

Ana Kefr banded mid-2008 with founding members Kyle Coughran and Rhiis D. Lopez, releasing their full-length debut mid-2009, Volume 1, via their imprint label Muse Sick. Performing with Exodus, Into Eternity, My Ruin, Taproot and Death by Stereo, the band released the single Tonight We Watch the Children Fucking Burn mid-2010 (Muse Sick). Ana Kefr released their second full-length album in 2011, The Burial Tree (II) (Muse Sick). Shortly after the release, the band organized and financed their first nationwide tour, The Zephyr US Tour 2011, bringing their unique brand of metal and performance to half of the continental United States.

Ana Kefr has received multiple accolades for their work, Volume 1 (2009, Muse Sick) named one of the best albums of 2009 by Brave Words and Bloody Knuckles, Blistering.com, The Press Enterprise and Detritus, Tonight We Watch the Children Fucking Burn (2010, Muse Sick) one of the best releases of 2010 by Blistering.com. The Burial Tree (II) (2011, Muse Sick) was named one of the best albums of 2011 by Blistering.com, The New Review, The Press Enterprise, That Devil Music, Brushvox, Technical Death Metal.com, Metal Odyssey, Heavy Blog is Heavy, Hard Rock Hideout, Heavy Metal Time Machine, Kosher Metal, The Slideshow, Portugal's Infektion Magazine and Confronto de Almas, and Argentina's Helltrip Magazine.

Ana Kefr were active participants in the Atheist Alliance International 2009 Convention, as well as the 2010 Freethought Alliance Conference and 2011 Southern California Secular Humanist Conference.

To receive exclusive studio tracks, video updates and more, sign up for the Ana Kefr mailing list by sending an e-mail to anakefr@gmail.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ana+Kefr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.