Anachronaeon started as Human Failure in the year 2002, consisting of Andreas Åkerlind on drums and Patrik Carlsson on guitars, bass, vocals, keys. They rehearsed and recorded ten songs in ten rehearsals. That became the "Human Failure"-demo.

 The band then decided to make more serious music, and really work through the compositions. In 2003 Anachronaeon was born, and with "Tales from a hollow eternity" the new path was trampled. In 2004 the band consisted of three members (Mac was second guitarrist back then).

 The three recorded the "As the last human spot in me dies" cd (2004) and actually performed a live gig (the only one EVER!) as opening act for Katatonia. Live Kalle Ullbrandt helped with bassduties, but was fired when Mac all of a sudden wanted to drop out of the band to focus on jazz music(!).

 Again there were only two, and they decided too keep it that way for now...

 In late 2005 a russian Anachronaeon-fan wondered if he could promote the band in Russia, since Anachronaeon still was not signed by any label. The band agreed and within two weeks Stygian Crypt Productions showed interest.

 070707 the demo "As the last human spot in me dies" was released by Stygian Crypt Production, with new cover art.

 Our second cd called "The New Dawn" was released by Stygian Crypt Productions 7th November 2007.

 Our third cd called "The Futile Quest for Immortality" was released by Stygian Crypt Productions January 15th 2010.

 In January 2012 "The Ethereal Throne" was released, a concept album about a serial killer. The same year we found a new guitarrist - Kenneth Johansson.
 Anachronaeon is now working on finishing the follow up to "The Ethereal Throne".
 Stay tuned....

 If you want to support the band you can always buy signed cd's directly from us. Throw us an e-mail and we'll take care of it!

 Om du bor i Sverige och vill ha tag i ett exemplar av någon skiva, så är det lättast att köpa direkt av oss. Se www.anachronaeon.com för kontaktuppgifter.

 For distributors in your own country, check out www.anachronaeon.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anachronaeon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.