There are multiple artists with this name:

1. Black metal band from Wurzbach, Thuringia, Deutschland, formed in 1999.

2.  A champion of the human spirit with an inherent need to clarify and love all things metaphysical, Anael and her delicate soprano delivery have been described as the definitive angelic voice, challenging us with mind-expanding lyrical themes all while caressing us with inspiring, lush soundscapes. But more importantly, the purity of her vocal tone allows her words to resonate directly in our souls, as though she is speaking intimately to each and every one of us. Her artistic goals each reverberate with this same, clear vibration, and her vision is almost deceptively simple: "...to help raise the collective consciousness so that mankind might fulfill its true destiny."

She believes that we can all tap into the universal energy that surrounds us, using it to heal both one another and our planet. In her life as in her music, she appears to be free of self-absorption, and when not singing, spends her time mending the physical side of our existence with Homeopathic medicine. "Everything is energy, and curing people isn't really that different from singing. Homeopathy works by sending an energy signal to the body which has essentially the same characteristics as the illness, but stronger, ultimately eliminating the sickness. Kind of like changing your mood by transforming your thoughts."

Anael's last album "Once Upon a Dream" attained the Top 10 at iTunes and has spent over 52 weeks among their top sellers. Her music has been featured on countless compilations worldwide and is licensed and/or distributed in 15 countries. Her songs have also been featured in TV documentaries, commercials and film in both Korea and Taiwan. Along with Shelley Yates and Bradfield, Anael is one of the founders and a major contributor to Fire the Grid (www.FIRETHEGRID.org), an unprecedented worldwide meditation which occured on July 17, 2007 at 11:11 GMT. The final phase of Fire the Grid (FTG I) is planned for November 11, 2011 at 11:11 GMT.


2. Anael is a German occult black metal band, hailing from Thuringia. It was formed in 1999 by Seraphackh with several others individuals from german bm underground.
More information can be found at http://www.anael.de. The group started as a blatant Samael’s Worship Him-era worship band and eventually developed a sound of their own with their second full length offering “On Wings Of Mercury”. A new album “From Arcane Fires” has been released in the end of 2008. More information can be found at http://www.anael.de. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anael">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.