Intense. Brutal. Uncompromising. Just a few words to describe the sound and presence of Brooklyn, New York Metal ensemble Anaka. Since its inception in late 2000, ANAKA has left a blistering mark in the Heavy Metal and Hard Rock scene around North America and overseas. Its first full length record release off Godsend Records in 2004, "Rust & Jade", proved so as it received outstanding praise from music fans around the world as well as major label representatives. ANAKA followed that with another mammoth release in 2009 titled "The Glorified Crusade". The record made a crushing impact on Hard Rock radio in August of that year by achieving TOP 20 positions on both FMQB Commercial Metal Radio and CMJ Loud Rock charts.

Both records received (and in several markets still are) considerable airplay at numerous radio stations, especially in the New York City area. This catapulted ANAKA to many sold-out performances at renowned venues in Nikon Jones Beach Theatre, Webster Hall's Grand Ballroom, Irving Plaza, Gramercy Theatre, Highline Ballroom, Bowery Ballroom, Starland Ballroom, Knitting Factory, Santos Party House, Count Basie Theatre, Don Hill's and CBGB's. To date, ANAKA has opened for such acts as Korn, Avenge Sevenfold, Trivium, Asking Alexandria, Five Finger Death Punch, Shadows Fall, Otep, Unearth and Life of Agony.

In September 2007, ANAKA’s biggest impact at that time was the music video release of the RUST & JADE title track. Directed by Kevin J. Custer (Testament, Hatebreed, Overkill, Madball, Lacuna Coil, etc.), RUST & JADE received airplay in several international markets including MTV Latino, covering every country in South America and Central America, and portions of the United States in Florida, Texas and California. The video was also featured on Music Choice’s Video On Demand Rock channel in April 2008.

ANAKA’s skills and success are not only revered in the music scene. In June 2008, ANAKA was given the honor to create the theme music for former World Wrestling Federation Champion The Ultimate Warrior in his return to the ring in Barcelona, Spain. The theme music track was aptly entitled THE ULTIMATE RETURN.

ANAKA once more had Kevin J. Custer on board to direct the first video off "The Glorified Crusade", ERASE. ERASE hit national and international television and internet stations with full force in the Spring/Summer of 2010. It received astounding praise by being the #1 most viewed video in May 2010 on MTVMusic. The video also collected hundreds of thousands of views on Music Choice, VH1, MTV Latino and many other outlets.

In May of 2011, ANAKA re-released a 10 Year Anniversary, Remixed/Remastered, Special Edition version of their very first studio release; "Down Devil's Road" (original recorded in 2001). They then fearlessly reveled in the unknown releasing their "Into The Great Unknown 'The Acoustic Sessions'" Album in January of 2012.

On November 7th, 2014 ANAKA proudly announced the first release off of the bands upcoming fifth studio album. This first single entitled "The Father Time Trilogy” features a performance by the ULTIMATE one himself, WARRIOR! This epic release is a TRIBUTE to the memory of the bands late great friend, mentor, and longtime supporter, the legendary professional wrestler and champion... WARRIOR!  Warrior performs spoken word on this epic track.

“Warrior was my childhood hero, and eventual great friend and mentor. Our connection and how it all came to be was truly a rare and amazing gift in my life. This song is about honoring him, what he believed, and how he lived his powerful life. I will carry him with me always.” – Peter Pallis of ANAKA. 

This is a joint venture between ANAKA & ULTIMATE CREATIONS, INC. Special thanks go out to Dana A. Warrior & Steve Wilton of Ultimate Creations, Inc. © 2013

In February of 2015 ANAKA released their highly anticipated new full length album "THE UNWAVERING."  This latest incarnation in the evolution and upbringing of the ANAKA sound is the heaviest/trashiest album the band has ever done!  "The Unwavering" is the band fifth full length studio album release.

Endorsements for ANAKA include Halo Custom Guitars, EMG Pickups, Pike Apparel and Horns High clothing line.

For additional ANAKA information, show dates, band pictures, contact info, please visit www.anaka.net, ANAKA's official band website, or e-mail the band at anaka@anaka.net. For additional song samples and to purchase ANAKA's "The Unwavering",  "Into The Great Unknown, The Acoustic Sessions", "The Glorified Crusade", "Rust & Jade", “Down Devil's Road" and "The Ultimate Return" albums, please visit cdbaby.com/artist/anaka or iTunes.

Band Interests:

Creating timeless music, destroying countess stages... Building our ANAKA ARMY!

Artists We Also Like:

Metallica, Megadeth, Alice In Chains, Black Sabbath, Pantera, Black Label Society, Down, Corrosion of Conformity, Slayer, Testament, DevilDriver, Lamb of God, Killswitch Engage. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anaka">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.