Analepsy is a Portuguese slamming brutal death metal band based in Lisbon, Portugal. Their sound is described as a crossover of old-school brutal death metal and modern melodic elements.

The correct pronunciation of the name of the band is "uh-nuh-leh-psy" (ʌnʌlepsy), and it was chosen due to its (now obsolete) meaning: recovery of strength after an illness.

The band was formed in late 2013 by the ex-vocalist Ricardo Proença and the guitarist Marco Martins. They met through a mutual friend after a Disgorge (USA) concert in Lisbon. Ricardo was looking to form a new band, and Marco was the guitarist of the brutal death/grindcore band Brutal Brain Damage at the time. Flávio Pereira was at that concert too and joined shortly after.

Diogo Santana and Tiago Correia joined by invitation as lead guitarist and drummer, respectively. It was at this time that they finished composing their first single.

The band's popularity came with the single "Genetic Mutations" in April 2014, recorded, mixed, and mastered by Miguel Tereso of Demigod Recordings. The band released it digitally, but later, a licensed physical copy limited to 36 units was released by Dismembered Records (Indonesia). Their first concert was at a birthday party in July of 2014 for their friends.

Their debut EP, "Dehumanization by Supremacy", was released in May 2015 through Vomit Your Shirt (Portugal) and Rotten Cemetery Records (Chile) and was very well received by the already existing fans, critics, and new listeners.

In mid-2016, Ricardo Proença had to leave the band for personal reasons. Diogo Santana became the vocalist while continuing in the position of lead guitarist. Throughout that year, the remaining members continued composing and recording their first full-length album, "Atrocities from Beyond". It was released worldwide in January 2017 through Vomit Your Shirt and Rising Nemesis Records (Germany).

In late 2016, the band accepted the invitation of Kraanium to collaborate on a split CD. “The Kraanialpesy Split” came out in July 2017 through Rising Nemesis Records.

In April 2017, Analepsy won the Portuguese W:O:A Metal Battle, supported by the organization of SWR Barroselas Metalfest, and represented Portugal at the final round of the Metal Battle at Wacken Open Air in August. It was also this year that they had a European tour with Human Vivisection in July.
Additionally, they took part in the Apocalyptic Slamming Evisceration 2017 Tour with Acranius and Carnal Decay in September and October.

Their first tour outside European borders was in Japan, where they performed as headliners in April of 2019. Later that year, in May, Analepsy played with Dysentery, Parasitic Ejaculation, and Pray for Pain in the Decapitating Europe Tour. They also played at Ressurection Fest in August, substituting Misery Index and Power Trip.

2019 was a year of change. After long deliberation, Flávio Pereira left the band in May, and João Jacinto took his place as a bassist in June. In September, Tiago Correia announced that he was leaving the band to pursue his other projects. Diogo Santana decided to leave the band at the end of the year due to divergent musical interests and visions.

They found a replacement for Tiago in February of 2020 when Daniel Torgal joined the band as their drummer.

To be continued. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Analepsy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.