Anamanaguchi is a four-piece band from New York City that makes emotional punk, pop, & dance music using hacked Nintendos, Game Boys, and 16-bit soundscapes. Members include Peter Berkman (guitar, songwriting), Ary Warnaar (guitar, songwriting), James DeVito (bass, stage visuals engineer), and Luke Silas (drums, solo act 'knife city'). A member of the artist collective 8bitpeoples, Peter Berkman had been creating chiptune music since 2003. Their debut album, 'Power Supply' EP, was released in 2006 as a free download. The name "Anamanaguchi" came about from the members' internships at Armani (Berkman and DeVito), Prada (Warnaar), and Gucci (Silas) while studying fashion at Parsons School of Design.

On March 3, 2009 they released their first full-length album, 'Dawn Metropolis', featuring 7 songs that pushed the chiptune-rock formula to a new level and included a website full of visual landscapes for the tracks. The following Summer the band began releasing free downloadable "summer singles" on their website: 'Airbrushed', 'My Skateboard Will Go On', Aurora (Meet me in the Stars)', and 'Mess'. The band was later commissioned by Universal & Scott Pilgrim creator Bryan Lee O'Malley to create 'Scott Pilgrim vs. the World: The Game (Original Videogame Soundtrack)' to coincide with the movie of the same title.

In 2013, Anamanaguchi released their first live action music video featuring a new single MEOW. During a hugely successful Kickstarter Campaign with the promise of making it "more than just an album", the band released 'Endless Fantasy', a 22-track full-length album under their own record label, 'dream.hax'. Setting the stage for a new era in Guch history, the band reaches the far ends of the galaxy with its sound and has no sign of slowing down here on spaceship earth! ( n_n)b 

www.anamanaguchi.com
Blog: armanipradagucci.com/
Tweets: www.twitter.com/anamanaguchi <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anamanaguchi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.