Anarchus was formed in 1987, after failing to form another band with the idea of playing what they felt and knew. The legendary demo "Total Hate", released in January '88, received a very positive response in spite of low-quality production. This led the band to foreing independent labels, and they were invited to play in many states in México. Anarchus has played with a variety of well known bands such as Sepultura, Exodus, Napalm Death, Sodom, Fear Factory, Dark Angel, Nocturnus, Master, Rotting Christ, lncantation, Krabathor, Mortician as well as some bands in the underground scene like; Phobia, C.S.S.O., Avulsed, Kataclism, Dogma Mundista, Recipients of Death, Rigor Mortis, Sayage Trust, Entety, Malignancy, Sadistic Intent (with whom they made their Grind Tour '91 in México), Assuck and Paineater (wich Anarchus went to Tampa in 1990), Requiem, Stonege, Masochism, Evil Incarnate and some more. In mid '91 they were preparing a mini tour in the U.S. but Pancho had an accident and besides,, there were other problems occurred in the band wich stopped and unstabelized the band for a long period. The kind of music (¿?) that Anarchus plays is hard to define, people usually describe it as; Thrash, Grind, Crust, Death, etc. In regard the lyrics, since the beginning they say anti-religious and nihilistic but when they say anti-religious, they mean all religions not just one in particular; christianity, satanism and other cults called obscure by their followers. The band comments: "Its more logical and realistic to believe in oneself than believing and expecting something from absurd and non existing inventions, besides, the religion has always stand for different political and social sistems and has given to the moral a threatening and dissuasive support, haterd factor, divition and intolerance,, in spite that some people call themselves good and pacifist and all other kinds of lies. Finally all this is in the benefice of only a few, in particular we have attacked christianism the most ,´cause its the religion that affect our lives directly, we are not trying to convince anyone becouse we don't see ourselves as savers, nor prophets, nor anything else, we only express our ideas as we believe that every one should. We don't believe in any kind of state, nor political, social or moral doctrine, we only believe in the individual that can really accomplish something, but then again, these are only our ideas." At this time the band is FINNISHING its JAPANESE TOUR 2004 The present line up in Anarchus is: * Pancho- Screams and Statements (Bands that has been in: Pactum, Cacofonia, Warcry). *Thrasher- Guitars (Former member of Histeria, Masacre 68, Atoxxxico, Warcry, The Sweet Leaf, AK47, and actually with Cacofonia) *Savage Grandpa- Drums(From Dahmerized) *Hugo- Bass(Drummer from C.A.R.N.E.) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anarchus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.