There are mutliple artists with this name:

1) Anasarca is a emotional hardcore band from Washington D.C,USA.

Though their recorded output was a bit on the skimpy side, Anasarca definitely had it’s place in the rise of mathematical emotional hardcore. Blending a complex mix of DC post-punk and hardcore, the seven tracks on ‘Discography’ will appease many a fan of the current crop of “screamo” aficionados, as well as those interested in the progression of the genre of mathematically-diverse hardcore. And while Anasarca may seem to be another in the crop of “new school” core, remembering that the band was doing this some 7 years ago opens ones eyes to the undeniable impact they must have had on those who witnessed their emotional outpouring.

Based in DC, it is only fitting that Anasarca would incorporate the off-kilter song structures of Fugazi and combine it with the fury of metal and hardcore. Relying on complexities, tracks like “Eugene Debs” continue to evolve with each listen; the work and passion that went into these tracks is one of uncompromising dedication. There are few 4/4 time structures, but rather a diverse mix of subtle palmed treble charged guitar atmospherics that give way to thick chords (and accented with high string plucks at each swelling bridge). Strongest track for me was most definitely “Everything Was Beautiful and Nothing Hurt”; beginning with straight ahead hardcore and delving into emo and mathematical territories without losing focus amid the clatter. Bands such as this are tough to call for those unfamiliar. Anasarca are not immediately pleasing or catchy. Given that we have since been exposed to the likes of Dillinger Escape Plan, Drowningman and bands of that nature, it is difficult to be immediately be blown away by diverse outings such as this. But when listened to intently, there is much to be savored, and only then does the depth of Anasarca’s work begin to bridge the gap. I did find “Stationary People” to incorporate a modification of the bass line (in pitch, but with the same pluck) to Nirvana’s “Smell’s Like Teen Spirit”, though it represents only a small portion of the 4 plus minute track…But as a whole, there is a vast array of originality represented here that solidifies the devotion those familiar with the band tend to display.

Though only 7 tracks are represented, they are long in composition and ultimately satisfying with the proper dedication to listening. You can’t just hear a band like this, or their depth will fall flat…But if you give Anasarca the same dedication they exhibited in their songwriting, you are sure to feel satisfied with the honesty and complexity that it holds. Not a record worth hearing…a record worth listening. Kudos to Second Nature for recognizing this aspect and giving us a chance to share in the moment. For mathematical emo-philes and complex hardcore lovers…a bit of history that’s worth revisiting.


2) Anasarca (http://www.anasarca.de/) is a death metal band formed in July 1995 in Emden, Germany. Its original members were Heiner (drums) and Michael (Guitar/Vocals) who left their old band Vomiting Corpses right after the release of the Coma (the Spheres of Innocense) album.

One week after Anasarca originally formed, they released their promo tape entitled Condemned Truth, and at that time took on Frank (Guitar) and Chris (Bass), who left their local band Vae Solis. After some more member bouncing in August 1997, Heiner left and Herbert joined due to his insanely fast-paced drum beats. Finally in August 1998, they released their first album entitled Godmachine through Repulse Records.

Again, Anasarca did some member switching - and label switching - and in February 2001 released their second album Moribund through the Danish label puny Music. For this album they did a European tour.

Current Members

Michael Dormann - Guitars, Vocals (since 1995), Bass (since 2001)
Daniel Schneider - Drums (since 2013)
Steffen Parth - Guitars (since 2013)
Michael Ernst - Guitars (since 2013)
Carsten Geerlings - Guitars (since 2013)

Former members

Joshi Wang - Guitars (2003-2013)
Christian Jansen - Bass (1995-2001)
Heiner Saliger - Drums (1995-1997)
Frank Tholen - Guitars (1995-1999)
Herbert Grimm - Drums (1998-2004)
Benjamin Hakbilir - Guitars (2000-2001) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anasarca">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.