Anathematize was a young Thrash Metal band hailing from Bristol, England.

The band formed in 2006 in the ashes of lead guitarist Ade Porwal's previous project Bit the Bullet. The original line-up consisted of Ade Porwal (lead guitar), Jak Noble (rhythm guitar), Sam "Woody" Woodgate (bass (who had worked previously with Porwal in Bit the Bullet)) and Ollie Coghill (drums). The band called themselves Cerulean Sky. 

During 2006, the band practiced heavily and tried out vocalists Rob LeMare and Andy Coutts. They inducted Coutts into the band in early 2007 and began considering playing shows. After a disgreement with the band however, Coutts left and the band decided that Noble should assume the role of vocalist, as well as rhythm guitarist. Shortly after this the band changed their name to Anathematize. 

From 2007 to the summer of 2008, the band played various shows across Bristol and Bath including various shows at Bristol's famous Croft and a Battle of the Bands in Bath. During this time, a 4-track EP entitled 'Shred-Fucked' was released as a promo to be given out at shows. It was at the Bath Battle of the Bands, when the band suffered a bad performance and meagre crowd reception, that the members began to part.

In August 2008, Coghill left the band. However, due to the fact that he had created a 'name' for the band (by advertising them heavily), he was allowed to keep the band name, meaning that Porwal, Noble and Woodgate effectively left instead. Coghill then inducted local shredder Dan Anderson into the band and asked Jak Noble to rejoin the group to lend his vocal talents. 

After a few months of downtime, Coghill began working with a new band named Floodsearch and Noble rejoined Porwal and Woodgate to create a new band titled Jenkins Theory. Anathematize was considered defunct from early 2009. 

In October 2010, Porwal tragically took his own life. With almost all of the music being written by him, Jenkins Theory came to an end and the Anathematize legacy was over. 

Since then, Noble has worked constantly on his solo project Returning We Hear the Larks, occasionally collaborating with others and forming projects such as Red Horizons, while Coghill has joined Melodic Hardcore band Failure to Follow, who have gained a following amongst the Bristol underground scene.

Anathematize on MySpace
Anathematize's original MySpace
Anathematize tribute Facebook page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anathematize">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.