Anatomy of Habit formed in Chicago in October 2008 and is composed of Theo Katsaounis (Percussion), Will Lindsay (Guitar), John McEntire (Drums), Kenny Rasmussen (Bass), Mark Solotroff (Vocals)

Encompassing elements of doom metal, post-punk, death-rock, noise-rock, and shoegazer, Anatomy of Habit’s distinct sound has earned the band consistent praise from a wide swath of listeners, be they people who experience the band for the first time, fans who attend almost every show, or fellow musicians with whom Anatomy of Habit has shared stages.

Jon Graef, writing in the Chicagoist, proclaimed Anatomy of Habit “a band that “truly defies categorization,” praising the band as “a group that knows how to hold listener attention, doing so by lulling them into gothic ambiance one minute, and then snapping them out of it with whiplash-inducing fury on loan from metal and hardcore the next.”

Anatomy of Habit has built a steady fan base not only in Chicago with their live performances but also throughout the United States via word of mouth from touring bands, other Chicago bands, and various media outlets.

For fans of: Joy Division, Swans, Einsturzende Neubauten, Killing Joke, Bauhaus, My Bloody Valentine, Black Sabbath, Fields of the Nephilim.

Loud Loop Press on Anatomy of Habit:

Anatomy of Habit’s self-titled debut might be the most un-metal metal album I’ve heard. In fact, calling it metal is probably a stretch. What it is, however, is a dark, moody and often haunting record that culls together a variety of sounds of the psychedelic, ambient and industrial sort. And that unwillingness to be boxed into a particular genre or any kind of strict categorization works to make Anatomy of Habit a bold and compelling debut.

A warning for fans of the four-minute single: You won’t find any here. No, Anatomy of Habit‘s two tracks, “Overcome,” and “Torch,” are both over 15 minutes long and are obtuse and difficult on the surface. But further investigation reveals much more as vocalist Mark Solotroff’s (of Bloodyminded) terrifying croon slash spoken word weaves its way through a sea of noisy percussion and droning guitar work.

“Overcome” opens like a predator stalking its prey – slow but sly and careful. Solotroff’s monotonic vocals hover over the clinky rhythms and repetitive, warbling guitars. A slight variation that includes eerie guitar picking takes hold until shortly after six and a half minute mark as menacing, grinding riffs pummel for a short moment as if the predator attacks. But the piece simmers down shortly thereafter. Finally, the real build up begins with a scratchy, distorted seque that leads to the song’s prog-metal coda.

And speaking of animals, Anatomy of Habit‘s second piece, “Torch,” is a different one altogether. It begins with a bleak hum filled with abstract cymbal play, which takes on a terrifying feel as demented ramblings about flesh, sternum and lungs seeps in. The trudging tempo gets more power via slow-burn fuzzy guitars before the chugging metallic riffage finally takes center stage. The song eventually breaks down again into a cacophony of demonic howls and bone rattling beats.

Yes, Anatomy of Habit isn’t the year’s most sunny album. In fact, it’s quite the opposite. But the moody tension and and sense of horror the band creates is extremely impressive. There’s no doubt that Anatomy of Habit have crafted one of the year’s most intriguing debut LPs from a Chicago band.

http://anatomyofhabit.bandcamp.com/
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Anatomy-of-Habit/65210152926
http://www.myspace.com/anatomyofhabit
http://anatomyofhabit.bigcartel.com/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anatomy+of+Habit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.