Anatolian Wisdom Biography - 2012

Anatolian Wisdom was formed in 2004 by guitarist and song writer Hanephi . The band released their first album “Towards the Darkness of Anatolia CD” in 2005. This album was recorded at the Art institute studios. The lineup was Hanephi(Guitars), Sanguis Morbis(Vocals), Magnus(Drums) , Kaos Occults(Bass). In 2006 Caligulus Supremus joined the band as the lead guitarist. After playing several gigs with this lineup, Anatolian Wisdom entered to Fiasco Brothers Studios to record their second album “Where the Iblis Dwells” In 2007 the band released a promo demo CD , that consisted tracks form the both albums. The Demo CD was printed limited to 200 copies and distributed worldwide for promotional purposes. Early 2008 Anatolian Wisdom released “Where the Iblis Dwells” through Hanephi’s own label ASA Productions. In 2009 the “Where the Iblis Dwells” was re-issued by the underground metal label “Morbid Count” from Greece. Cassette version of the album had 333 copies and distributed internationally by the underground labels and promoters. In late 2009 Anatolian Wisdom played a gig with Moonspell and Secrets of the Moon, right after the gig, Anatolian Wisdom had to separate its way with the vocalist and the drummer, due to personal differences and family priorities.

After this point on Hanephi was back into his own dark world to redefine and recreate Anatolian Wisdom. He needed the time to recruit new members, write new music and also work on the new concept for the band. In this period of time his profound vision united with the thoughts influenced by sinister death and sacred occult arts. Thus the never ending darkness is impregnated yet ones again by the venomous prayers of Anatolian Wisdom. Soon enough “The Religion of Death” shall be emerged onto the face of this wrecked planet, crushing the dominions of monotheistic dogmas.

“In a world of disbelief and profound fear, all I see is you living and dying devoid of eternal hope. 
Thus I grant you the dark path of redemption, the true freedom of death."

"In the absence of light , the religion of death shall prevail"

HANEPHI


http://www.myspace.com/anatolianwisdom <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anatolian+Wisdom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.