Ancestry is the name of 4 known bands.

1) A metalcore band from Braunschweig, Germany.

2) A folk/black metal solo project founded by Kraken in 2007.

3) An italian synphonic progressive rock band born in 1988.

4) A mexican Power Metal band born in 2007
 Ancestry was founded in late 2007 by guitarist Luiz Monge, along with drummer Derek Avila, including Alan Garcia And Cesar Castillo taking positions of keyboards and bass, later Lobo would be added to the line-up as vocalist for the band, for few months the band would have just one guitar player, but it¥s decided to get a second one to get a fuller sound and to be able to include guitar harmonies in the band's songs. Several guitar players were auditioned until the band found what they were looking for in Eduardo Cuadros who solidified the first Ancestry Line-up by joining the band.

Since the beginning the band started working on their own compositions, adding some cover songs from bands like Dragonforce, Sonata Arctica, Stratovarius, etc., to be able to play a full set when playing live.

The band developed what would be the material for their first album during the course of the year 2008, year in which they would share the stage with local and international like Rata Blanca from Argentina.

After this the band would suffer their first line-up change when Derek left the band being replaced with Edgar Salais.

In January of 2009 the band traveled to Mexico City to start recording their first album, titled "Revelations" in Allory Studios, traveling continuously to Mexico City to continue with the recordings of the album, the same recordings that would be interrupted by the decision to part ways with Lobo.

The band would remain on a hiatus during the second half of the year 2009 and the first half of 2010, until Alex Gavilan joined the band as a vocalist, and with him on the band continue the recordings of "Revelations". After the recordings were finished the project was moved to El Paso Texas, where additional recordings were made at True Records Studios, and soon after that the mixing and mastering of the record were done there too.

Ancestry will present "Revelations" in March of 2011, and the band will begin a promotion tour for the record in the summer of the same year.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ancestry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.