www.reverbnation.com/ancientcreation
www.facebook.com/ancientcreation
www.heavenandhellrecords.com
www.melissarecords.com

Ancient Creation is heavy metal in its purest form, with no concern for being modern or trendy. The only goals are to push the limits of their ability and create great progressive old school power metal. Guitarist Peter Nisenkier decided to form a band that would combine elements of power metal, complex song arrangements, aggressive drums, powerful vocals.

First to come aboard was bassist Andy Critz, a former band mate of Pete’s from the band Sativa. The next few months were spent on song writing and then it was time to find a drummer. After trying out many drummers the band lucked out and found Mike Burns, Sharing a love for powerful technical heavy metal, the music started to come together easily. After experimenting with different styles and working with various vocalists, it became clear that this band was turning into a no frills classic power metal band. After another short search the band came across vocalist Steve Bentley, just back from doing the Milwaukee Metalfest with his former band Darkside. Steve had been looking to do something different and fell right in with the feel and the power that Ancient Creation was becoming. Mike decided to part ways after the release of their first CD in 2007 “Evolution Bound” on now defunct Melissa Records. The band was now in search for a new drummer leading them to Kevin Keeton formally of the industrial band Swill. In addition second guitarist Maxx Christopher formerly of the classic metal band Graven Image was brought into the band. Now that all the pieces of the puzzle where in place Ancient Creation prepared to unleash more of the purist heavy metal the U.S. has to offer.

The band’s touring throughout the U.S. including; appearances at Warriors of Metal Open Air and Kansas Power Metal Festivals and a plethora of opening slots for national acts such as Strapping Young Lad, Helstar, Lacuna Coil, Cage, Lizzy Borden, Fight, Trouble, Metal Church, Cellador, Manilla Road, ASKA, Leatherwolf, among others has proven the band to be one of the country’s premier live acts. Their performances filled with raw energy, fast technical guitar work, clear powerful vocals, and solid thunderous rhythms.
 

Steve Bentley (Vocals)
Peter Nisenkier (Guitars)
Andy Critz (Bass)
Maxx Chriistopher (Guitars)
Kevin Keeton (Drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ancient+Creation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.