Our group begins in Santiago de Chile, 2001 taking the roots of the dissolve band Missing Sequence. The old front man of that band Gonzalo Osses, decide to make a new musical project with his friend Rubén Patiño, who decide to recruit an ex-member of the mentioned band, Sergio Suárez, as a guitarist and Mauricio Coromer as a drummer, starting like that to work on some new songs. After a couple of months working, with this finally lineup, Cristian Reyes is incorporated to the band, as a vocalist.

With this last incorporation, the band starts the stage of songs composition which follow a musical line influence by the old school bands mainly taking the Europe school without forget some American bands influences like Possessed, Overkill and Slayer.

The band, in those days, worked with anti-religious lyrics, anti-globalization, pedophilia and experiences in general, giving thus, the name of the group: Ancienterror.

After Suárez separation, another ex Missing Sequence joints the band: Gabriel Head, in the first guitar, going Osses to the second guitar and the musical composition of this new phase, besides after the Coromer separation (Akramer), Esteban Ponce was incorporated to the band (drums) in 2002, from Sarcasmo who gave his own print to the group.

In that same year the band has its debut in December with the acclaimed Massakre, in a successful event together with the also known Tropic of Invocation and Funebre, among others. Then, shows will come in the mythical Necropolis and others stages with Demonized, Disharmony, Rapturer, among others.

2003 is one of the best years of the group, where we reach renown with the recording of the first single “I need to kill a fucking bitch”, song that had an excellent reception .. people to the band and some fans that already know Ancienterror, besides several magazines, web sites and the well-known radio program “Tiempos Violentos” from Rock and Pop FM. The official debut of this singles was made in a presentation at the Catholic University of Valparaíso, where the thrashers who live there show the excellent scene that happens in provinces, as portent maybe from future visits of the band to the different cities of the country.

At the end of that year the shows would follow with bands like Timecode, Battlerage and Massive Power.

2004 was a very difficult year to the band, because of the Gabriel Head separation, who emigrate to Massakre, the short absence from the band of Esteban Ponce, taking the battery place for a moment, Francisco (Demonized), and the separation of Rubén, one of the formers of the group, by personal causes. Maybe the only value thing that happens in those first months was the Maximiliano's arrival, the son of that time bass player, who brought joy to the band, besides the performances at the metal bar “El Martillo”, emphasizing a debut with one of the most renown bands in the present world of metal: Torturer.

The second half of that year, Sebastian Rozas (first guitar) was incorporated and the reincorporation of Ponce, made a new period of Ancienterror. Then, it come the launch of the Rehearsal “The spell of hammer”, dedicated to the memorable shows at the bar “El Martillo”, which was made in the city of Puerto Montt with an excellent reception of the thrashers there, and mark the boom of the group.

But in 2005 a new change in the band takes place, including the musical line and logotype. In a definitive way, Esteban and Sebastian split up, causing uncertainty with the band destination, which besides had problems in the demo recording. This motivate the re-incorporation of Rubén Patiño  to the bass, Suárez and Osses take on guitars and the group decide to give more weight and speed to the songs going down the tuning.

This change would be decisive in the new sound of Ancienterror. It begins the search of the person in charge of the drum, who besides has to be technical, also require responsibility, creativity and the power for this new sound.

For this reason, shyly, a young man Luis Altamirano (20) arrived to try one's luck in the group, taking up the vacancy, being a very important contribution in the technical part.

Actualy the new integrant in the lead guitar,is mister Gonzalo Osses with some weeks inside and working full time in the agrupation .

The current Ancienterror line up is:
Gonzalo Osses: lead & rhythm guitar
Luis Altamirano: drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/AncienterroR">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.