Ancient Ascendant are a British based quartet pioneering a unique brand of song writing based on a solid foundation of black and death metal, whilst injecting eclectic ideas from a wide range of fine metal traditions.

Since the release of their critically acclaimed debut EP 'The Heathen Throne', Ancient Ascendant have shared the stage with black metal monsters 1349, death metal legends Bolt Thrower (who personally invited the band to support them), Rotting Christ, Fleshgod Apocalypse and Blood Red Throne to name a few.

2011 was a hugely successful year for Ancient Ascendant, which saw their highly rated debut album 'The Grim Awakening' being released by Siege of Amida Records, as well as signing to the renowned Factory Music booking agency. Quickly following up on this with their second EP, 2012 saw the release of 'Into The Dark’.

‘Into The Dark’ represented the latest evolution of British death metal standard bearers Ancient Ascendant, brought to life under the expert guidance of the legendary Dan Swanö (Opeth, Dissection, Dark Funeral, Bloodbath, Katatonia, Marduk etc…).

2012 also saw the band completing a successful UK tour with gore metal legends Aborted, playing a packed out Sophie Lancaster stage at Bloodstock Open Air, as well as sharing a stage with the masters of Teutonic thrash Sodom.

2013 began with a busy touring schedule, traveling the UK and Ireland with Enslaved/Winterfylleth, then as main support to Hypocrisy. The rest of the year was spent writing and recording their second full length album, once again with Dan Swanö at the helm.

Having released the follow up to their 2012 EP 'Into the Dark' in March 2014, their new full length album ‘Echoes and Cinder’ continues in the style they have honed over the last 6 years while raising the bar in every conceivable way. More extremity, more melody, more groove and more evil.

Spring 2014 saw the band complete an extensive European tour with legendary death metal band Pestilence amidst critical praise for their latest opus.

After a UK tour with Darkest Era, and a handful of one off shows supporting the likes of Vallenfyre and Bloodbath, the band started work on their third album...

“Ancient Ascendant combines all the right elements from Black, Death and Thrash Metal into one lethal blend, topped off with excellent musicianship and amazing vocals! One of the best brutal bands to come out of Britain…well…ever!!”
- Dan Swanö

“…packed with quality riffs and clever song writing…”
- Metal Hammer

“…the future of English death metal…”
- Zero Tolerance
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ancient+Ascendant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.