Andhim – the new boys in town

It was spring 2010 when the Cologne natives decided to kick their butts and get out of their studio to show their beats to the world.
Less than 12 months later Andhim made it to the top ten German newcomers of the Groove and Raveline magazines (two of the most respected electronic music media in Germany and not only). Their records could be found in the cases of famous DJ’s and remix requests followed from all over.

Their sound, which they self describe as “Super House” has become its very own genre built from their soul and passion. Andhim’s unique sound, party proven and of reduced nature, is organic with an emphasis in the finer detail.

The boys grassroots flow from Hip-Hop, and they work mainly with samples which makes their tracks one of a kind. This individuality has earned them a home with Labels such as Monaberry, Terminal M or Sunset Handjob.

When performing live one can really feel the full commitment and passion of the boys. Energetic, creative and always entertaining, they present their very own interpretation of electronic dance music that makes dads cheer and mums scream. The boys are transforming the decks into instruments themselves to create an extended sphere of music, which separates them from the standard reproductive character of a DJ.

Their musical talent and knowledge of technique comes from their musical resume:
When other kids were playing at the pool eating French fries on their summer holidays, 16 year old Simon was scratching with several jazz-musicians through Europe. When he was 20 he became known as Simon² tempted to electronic music.
Similarly, but on different level, Tobias developed in the late 90’s and early 2000’s. As part of the Turntable-Crew “Noisy-Stylus” he became a multiple ITF- and DMC-Champion and influenced the Turntablism scene of the time with Noisy-Stylus in their own Battlebreakrecords and album “Table Manners”.

The final chapter was at a Bavarian sausage-eating contest, facing each other in the final round covered from head to toe in sausage. They immediately knew what to do and founded the Boyband “Andhim”. Just a logical progression!

After massive gigs through Europe and Asia, the boys continuously work on their sound and development in an effort to explore new worlds of sound. With strong support from many Artists and Labels of the scene they are looking forward to the future with optimism and are excited to make the people of the world dance, smile and go crazy! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Andhim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.