There are multiple artists who have recorded under the name Andrea:

1) A Bulgarian singer, Teodora Rumenova Andreeva (born January 23, 1987);
2) Andrea, a pop star from Skopje, Macedonia;
3) Andrea Moonchild, electronic musician from Paris, France. 
4) Alias of Andy Stott as one half of Millie & Andrea.
5) An Italo-Disco project active between 1985 and 1994.
6) Italian DJ/producer from Turin.

1) Andrea is a Bulgarian singer.
Teodora Rumenova Andreeva (born January 23, 1987), best known by her stage name Andrea (Cyrillic: Андреа), is a Bulgarian pop-folk singer. She and the Romanian singer Costi Ionita performed together and released music as Sahara.
Her musical career began with the help of her producer Lyusi Ilarionov. Her first song, “Kato nepoznat”, was released in June 2006 and her first music video one month later. In March 2008 Andrea released her first album, Ogan v kravta. In August of the same year she sang a duet Samo moi with the Romanian star Costi Ionita and the song became a summer hit. Then they started to work together and released many hits, including the duets Izbiram teb, Upotrebena, Neblagodaren, Lazha go s teb, and Lyubovnik. Also, Costi is the composer of Andrea’s other best hits like "Men si tarsil", "Day mi vsichko, Hayde, Opa", "Izlazhi me" and many others included on her albums Men si tarsil (released in October 2009) and Andrea (released in December 2010). Андреа & Costi are working together in a project called Sahara and make modern dance music for European and International audiences. Some of their tracks are in collaboration with great world music stars including Bob Sinclar, Shaggy, and Mario Winans.
In June 2008, she appeared on the cover and in a feature in the Bulgarian edition of Playboy.
In 2009, as part of Sahara she recorded a single called Bellezza with Geo Da Silva. She appears as part of Sahara in the 2010 song and video for DJ Bob Sinclar's song I Wanna, also featuring Shaggy.
At the start of her career, Andrea was offered a solo recording contract, but declined.
In 2011 she expanded some of her music to America such as Mine ft. Mario Winans, and Champagne ft. Shaggy. Now she is working on several new songs, some that are released in 2011 is "Na eks" featuring "Kristal". She released her new song in July 2011, "Dokray". Andrea released a song with Bulgarian singer Boris Soltariyiski called "Preday se" in Fall 2011. The video was released in late September.
At the beginning of April 2012, Andrea left Sahara in order to focus on a solo career, prompting Costi to launch a contest to replace her as he still wished to continue the project. In 2012, she released a song "Only you" featuring Gabriel Davi.

2) Andrea is a pop star from Skopje, North Macedonia. Born 14 February 2000, her love of music began at age 5, when her parents moved to Harlem for a one-year program. Her earliest recollections are the gospel, soul, and R&B she absorbed, which transformed her into a life-long music lover. The daughter of a law professor father and a physician mother, her parents expected her to follow a “respectable” career.

In October 2020, she released her debut single "I Know," which has accrued over 100k streams on Spotify and over 300k views on YouTube. “I Know” was the feature of a premiere in a prestigious UK music blog, Blackplastic, which described “I Know” as a love song that quivers with the excitement of an instant attraction. It has been played on over 100 radio stations in countries around the world, including the UK, US, Holland, Germany, Italy, Canada, France, and others.

She will represent North Macedonia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2022 in Turin, Italy with her song “Circles”.

3) Andrea is also an Italo-Disco project, which was active between 1985 and 1994. Their hits were “Macho Man” and “I’m A Lover”. 
The producers of the group were Dario Farina and M.Hofmann. 
She released the album “Like Humphrey Bogart”.

4) Alias of Andy Stott as one half of Millie & Andrea.

5) Andrea Moonchild, electronic musician from Paris, France. Andrea has been building up heat over recent months with his innovative live shows and his own productions and remixes of The xx and AlunaGeorge drawing in fans and scoring radio support from tastemakers such as Benji B and Monki at BBC Radio 1 and Eddy Temple Morris at XFM. 

His recent #OneSampleOneDay project which involved him creating one track built around a different sample suggested by his fans and peers every day for 31 days gained him a huge amount of respect and exposure.

His remix of “Mantra” by new MTA Records signing Abigail Wyles is out now and Andrea is currently working on another remix for a new Sony artist. 

His Production work is also in high demand with Andrea producing a track for Lena Cullen who’s been working with Shadow Child and Justin Martin amongst others. That track will be out later in the year. Andrea’s also working with a new R&S signing as well as another MTA artist.

Andrea is also currently working on a collaborative album with other talented producers including Odesza, Greenwood Sharps, Catching Flies, Bear//Face and Ta-Ku to name but a few.

On top of all of this Andrea is putting the finishing touches to his next EP which will be released later this year and continues to work on his own artist album as well.

He recently supported Flume in Paris and has more shows coming up around Europe so expect to see and hear plenty more from Andrea over the coming months and years.

6) Producer & DJ from Turin, Italy. Releases primarily through the label "Ilian Tape".
Born and raised in Turin, passionated by music and art, since his childhood Andrea started to buy vinyl records approaching music across all different genres (from new wave and post-punk to reggae and dub music).

His work is the result of years of musical identity research, of different experiments and continuous attention to techno evolution in the last decades.

In his productions Andrea tries to mix sundry elements related to 90s Breakbeat and IDM with excursion to warehouse techno and house. Turin city has a key role in his sound; its dark and post-industrial soul clearly emerges in every track. Emotive melodies and abstract sounds, heavy kicks and low-end drum, atmo-pads and chord progressions are the significant elements of his music.

Behind the decks and also in his live set, he creates an intense atmosphere with a mixture of effective dancefloor bangers and stepping rhythms.
https://soundcloud.com/andreamusik
https://www.residentadvisor.net/dj/andrea
https://www.discogs.com/artist/3284003-Andrea-99 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Andrea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.