Andrew Duke has been composing, producing, remixing, and performing music since 1987.  His music is consistently referred to by the media and listeners alike as continuously presenting a unique and distinct sound; quotes:  “Andrew Duke creates music that sounds like it has a reason for living” (The Wire, UK); “He often seems to be inventing new genres” (Cyclic Defrost, Australia); “a unique producer with a strong perception and approach of his own to electronic music” (Koert Notario, Courthouse Int'l Audio, The Netherlands); “Andrew Duke renews my faith in the world of slow-mo techno” (Igloomag/Microview, USA); “Andrew Duke reinvents himself almost with every release” (All Music Guide, USA); “Andrew Duke puts his soul into his experimental music” (The Halifax Daily News, Canada); “The man behind the East Coast electronic music scene, Duke displays a different facet of his skill with every release” (Exclaim, Canada).  Two PSAs he scored for the national Racism: Stop It! campaign were recognized with awards in March 2005.  His Sprung album (released on France’s Bip-Hop label in 2002) was nominated for Album of the Year (Electronica) at the 2003 annual Canadian Independent Music Awards.  He has been commissioned for 55+ remixes (for artists such as Aaliyah, Pink Floyd, Chicks On Speed, Heavy Meadows, and David Kristian), has licensed 125+ tracks to compilations, and regularly tours his live PA.

other activities: 
Duke has been writing about music since 1981 (published in Computer Music, Magic Feet (UK), Vice, XLR8R, Urb, Grooves, ei, Streetsound (US), GCFC’s Spotting Notes, Exclaim, The Coast (Canada), and others) and his articles have been reprinted internationally in languages including French, German, Italian, Polish, and Serbian; from 1987-2004 he hosted Andrew Duke's In The Mix (a weekly radio/internet show syndicated at one point to over 35 million weekly listeners worldwide), produced artists at his Cognition Sound studio, and produced events across Canada.  He formed the Cognition Audioworks label in 1990 after operating Incognito Musique and Digitalis Recordings (1987-1990).  Cognition Audioworks' online home is the Cognition site: cognitionaudioworks.com (ranked as an "essential" website and one of the Top 200 sites on the net, music-related or otherwise, in The Wire, October 2000).  Duke has been a jury member for Canada’s Junos (the equivalent to America’s Grammys; 2000, 2001, 2006), Indies (2001), DJ Olympics (1998-2005), and Dig Your Roots (2002, 2003); he was a panelist at MUTEK_Intersection (2003).  He is a member of the Guild of Canadian Film Composers as well as Halifax's Upstream Orchestra and Grrrilla Orchestra (led by Paul Cram).  Duke has served on the Board of Directors for the National Campus and Community Radio Association.  He is also a music software educator and a visual artist whose work has been exhibited internationally.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Andrew+Duke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.