Let us be honest: Bandbios are lame, an endless list of more or less interesting facts and always the same: Stuffed with superlatives and exaggerated adjectives. 
Get your own opinion about us, listen to our music and choose your own category in which you want to pack us, you will do this anyway!
Love it or hate it, call it metal, call it core, call it whatever. Here are some honest facts about us, trying to avoid excessive self-congratulation.

We are five music-loving people from the area of Cologne and Bonn and have all played in different bands before, from nu-metal stuff to hardcore.
We are now stranded here with ANGELS AND ENEMIES, just having fun by creating the things that we want on our instruments.
We, that is Marc (vocals), Malong (drums), Dirk (guitar), Joschka (bass) and Steffie (guitar), a colorful bunch with different backgrounds, but it fits!

It all started very classical, we began to write the first songs together and recognized after a few months where the musical journey should go to. From 2007 to 2009 we released two E.Ps, „And scars remained“ (07) and „The lyke wake dirge“ (09). Lyrically Marc worked at first in english, but just like a musician who developes his own technique on his instrument, our singer soon realized that he could express his feelings more intense by using his native language. The first german titel that we ever released was the song „Schall“ on „The lyke wake dirge“. The scene was „shocked“!
Nevertheless, we continued to move on exactly in this direction.

At the end of 2009, the label „Apollon records“ signed us and we started to write our first full-length album „Gttkmplx“ („Gdcmplx), which is available
since 11.June 2010.
What more can we say? It is like in all the other bands: working ambitious, writing songs, playing as many live-shows as possible and simply enjoy beeing musicians. Hopefully, the future will treat us as good as the past already did!

ANGELS AND ENEMIES <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Angels+And+Enemies">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.