The band was founded in 2002 by its original members Boyan Gochev (bass), Georgi Vasilev (guitar) and Martin Kondov (vocals) in Haskovo (Bulgaria). Some months later, after a long strenuous search for the proper drummer, Mariyan Gordelev joined the group, giving the final form to the band until 2003. This way, the founders of the band, today known as Angerpoint, had a few live performances, presenting mainly new metal style. At the beginning of 2003, the boys recorded their first demo at a studio - "Feel my hate". After a month, the first recruit - Hristo Simeonov (guitar) became a part of the metal quintet. Together they started work on new original compositions. The summer of 2003 proved to be important to the musicians, who found themselves without their first guitarist - Georgi Vasilev, who left the band for personal reasons. It was hard for them to overcome that situation, but they coped with the problem and took a fresh start, totally reversing their music style. They became quicker, heavier and even more melodious. They started again from the beginning, created a new style and songs and changed their name into ANGERPOINT. At the end of 2003, the band faced another problem - Martin Kondov decided to leave the group in view of serious misconceptions, related with the style and ideas of the band. Many an aspiring vocalist came and auditioned for the group, but none were deemed suitable for the band. That is why Boyan Gochev (formerly known as the bassist of Angerpoint) took up the vocal part, too. Several months later, the boys announced -"A guitarist is needed". Many guitarists took turn in playing in the band. Spas Valiov was the one who stayed a long time until the day when their ex-guitar player - Georgi Vasilev came back and joined the band again. Having those members and two singles recorded (“Beyond the walls” and “Rotten inside” ), the group gained wide popularity. At 2006 Mariyan Gordelev left Angerpoint. He was replaced by Stanimir Nenchev. Along with all that line-up changes the group had gone through, the need of a real singer with a long music experience and vocal background became serious. The band was in need of someone to develop their style and give a new face and sound to it. Fate was not indifferent to the boys and soon in 2007 they found a person, they had always been looking for. Boyan Gegov traveled with them during all the numerous participations of the band. He was not an official vocalist until the day the boys realized - he had been the missing "point" in Angerpoint. Shortly after they became aware of that, Boyan was offered to be the main figure in the band and he agreed. At May 2007 Angerpoint gained a new frontman and a new image at the same time... The decision of Stanimir Nenchev to break off and leave his work with the other boys demanded a new drummer in the end of 2007. It did not take a long time for the boys to do that. The return of Mariyan Gordelev as a drummer was the last change in Angerpoint's members. This change is a step forward for the band. Now Angerpoint are ambitious and full of new ideas. Their frantic energy is going to take your breath away. The first audio is now being recorded and it will exceed your expectations...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Angerpoint">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.