Angelkill is a Death/Thrash metal band from LeClaire, Iowa that formed in 1988. The band's discography is largely made up of demos that were released or re-released as full-lengths by Wild Rags Records. This was common practice by the now defunct metal label. The band is reportedly still active, but have not updated any information since 2007. All of the band's releases are available for purchase at the band's myspace page.

"Beyond the Black"  Demo, 1990
"Grave Samples" Demo, 1990
"Garden of Crosses" Full-length, 1993
"Lady Cadaver" EP, 1995
"Blood Stained Memories" Demo, 1996
"Artist of the Flesh" Full-length, 1996
"Beyond the Black" Full-length, 1996
"Bloodstained Memories" Full-length, 1998
"Casket Lullabies" Full-length, 1998

Latest Artist Biography from website:
"In the year of 1988 "Angelkill" was born to the underground after Singer/Guitarist Blakk was disgusted with the local band scene of the time; and decided to create his own one man band creating Fate, Venom, Death, and Alice Cooper to name just a few. For the first few years Blakk recruited local Drummers to help record the first few roughly produced demo tapes. It wasn't until the summer of 1992 when Blakk was finally able to construct the first full band line up consisting of long time friend Steve Swyers along with guitarist friend and neighbor Mike Kore. Soon came underground friend and percussionist extraordinaire Brett Fugate. He brought with him the odd but extremely talented Bassist, Norm Sales. In 1993 Angelkill released the first full length album "Garden of Crosses". This debut would get much attention in the metal underground. In 1994 Angelkill went through various line up changes which would introduce the talented Jeff Olson who would write and produce the next four albums throughout the next few years and undergo several line up changes for the rest of the band. Angelkill recruited long time friend and guitarist Darin Sutton as well as Jeff's brother John Olson on bass. Brett Fugate would still continue on drums. In late 1996/97 Angelkill finally found the well seasoned talents of bassist Bruce Duncan, guitarist Karl Luethman and drummer John Lord who all brought to the band experience as well as a solid line up. In late 1999 Angelkill took a long hiatus and reformed with the same line up except for replacing John Olson with Drummer, Jason Hasse. Currently, I am reekhording a new full length release "Raped, Burned and Enslaved", available later this year." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Angelkill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.