ANGELDEATH was formed in 2001 when guitarist/mastermind Greg Nyaarlagthotetp was a sophmore in high school. Following various lineup incarnations, ANGELDEATH underwent a decisive and monumental transformation with the arrival of Ryan Bilby on drums. Along with Greg Nyaarlagthotetp, Ryan, although not an original member, would go on to form the explosive duo that is the core of the band. Although this rhythmic core was intact, ANGELDEATH went through a couple minor personnel changes before settling into the classic lineup of Greg on guitars, Ryan on drums, Matt Blendell on vocals, and Charlie Chapple on bass guitar, a unit whose clockwork-like tightness and precision was a marvel to behold. It was a halcyon time, with the band gigging frequently throughout the Albany area, as well as Long Island and Ithaca, NY.

It was this lineup that recorded both self-financed ANGELDEATH albums. Recorded in the Summer of 2003 and engineered by Ernest Rau III (Mucopus/Tentacles), the first demo EP, entitled "Screams From Beyond," showcased all of their original material at the time, along with a cover of Slayer's "Raining Blood". In the Summer of 2004, the band entered Max Trax Studios (now called North Sea Productions) in Albany, NY to record their 2nd EP, entitled "Hordes of Sickness/Legions of Hate." Engineered by Brett Portzer, this record displayed a breathtakingly rapid progression and maturity in their songwriting abilities and featured their strongest material to date. At the time of the recording sessions, no member of ANGELDEATH was older than 19. The entire EP is featured on this website.

Unforuntately, soon after recording this crowning achievement, the band broke up. The untimely confluence of a number of factors largely out of their control made continuation untenable. Although the band was no more, Greg could never escape the nagging feeling of unfinished business......

Five years later, here we are again, giving praise to the Most Ancient of Days and ready to bring blasphemy to the masses.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Angeldeath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.