http://www.angercell.com

"BIOGRAPHY

In the fall of 2007 an idea to put together a new band was born. After many musical experiments the path led to metal.

Then Wesleyer parted ways with Pain Confessor.

First to join the outfit with DC and Wesleyer was Jani. Then DC's old acquaintance from previous bands, Samppa, joined to play the bass. After several drummer candidates Jontte proved to be the perfect choice.

The spring of 2009 turned out to be a busy and profilic time for the band.

First live show was performed June 27 2009 at Tuska festival after party in Virgin Oil Co.

Once With Hate -promo was recorded at Rockstar Productions studios in August 2009.

In September Anger Cell joined Metallia Perkele Tour 2009 with Grendel, Kiana and Ghoul Patrol.

At the end of 2009 Anger Cell is writing new material and conducting preproduction for the forthcoming promotional recording."

- http://www.angercell.com/bio/

Wesleyer (GTR)

Legendary old school grand old man. Previously raising mayhem in A.R.G., Pain Confessor and countless other projects. Anger Cell is the natural next step to complete the circle. Influences can be heard within the music he writes, what he has been doing for almost 25 years.
DC (VOC)

Born in mid 70's to tiny village called Loppi, located in Southern Finland. Was introduced to God Rock the usual way those days: AC/DC, Motörhead, Black Sabbath and etc, etc. These days listens to different stuff from via Misfits to Slayer and Queen and back again... Has done some gigs in late bands called DC-Group and StoneSoul. ...and now those Anger Cells in his head are ACTIVATED!!
Jani (GTR)

After 15 years of guitar playing and shredding riffs in bands called Carcase Inc. and Thaurorod, he joins Anger Cell as a solo guitarist. Getting his influences from early days death metal to nowadays Opeth.
Samppa (BASS)

Previous musical activities include late hard rock act StoneSoul and playing heavy covers for several years.
Jontte (DRUMS)

Has been playing drums since early 90's. Previously active in Dienecia, Kansan Temppeli etc etc. Musical influences from early thrash metal scene from the 80's. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anger+Cell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.