There are six  bands/projects with the name Angmar.
Angmar is a realm in the northern part of the Misty Mountains in the north of Middle-Earth, which is being ruled by the king of the Nazgûl in J.R.R. Tolkien's works. 
Also Angmar means "house of iron" in Sindarin, an Elvish language created by Tolkien.
 
1) The first are Finns, who started the project from 1994/1995 and changed band's name to Angmar in 1997. They released two demos - Valonsurma and Planet Satan, splits with Tenebrosus and The True Endless, and the album Razorblade Redemption (2003). The band members took part in another project Enchanted by Dawn and now play also for the death/trash band Enormity.

2) The second is a French act from 2002. They released in 2003 the demo Aux Funérailles du Monde... that will be re-released as a split with Alcest in the beginning of 2007. The last days of 2005 they released also the album Metamorphosis under the label Northern Silence Productions.

3) Black metal band from Czech Republic formed in 2007. The band changed the name to Crown of Angmar. Last known line-up - Lord Enthermontth - Vocals, guitar, bass, programming (Dark Methodism). They recorded 2 demos - Uruk Aklash Raz Burzumi (2007) and Dark Gods Worshipping (2008).

4) Black metal/Ambient band from Slovakia formed also in 2007. The current line-up is formed by Slavirod- Guitars, vocals and Hrnko- Guitars. They recorded 1 demo - Lesná mohyla (2008) and 1 split with Mahtar called Úder Slovanskej Päste (2009).

5) Mexican Pagan Black Metal band. Here some info in Spanish (sorry can't find English text and I don't know Spanish).

Angmar banda de pagan true black metal que prefiere ser conocida como una banda de cursed black metal y nacida en cd obregon son.en el año 2007 y hoy en dia radica en hermosillo sonora. con barahir en todos los instrumentos programacion de bateria y voz black,Nazgul en los lamentos,Aeter en las voces femeninas.
la banda pasa a ser de dos miembros saliendo aeter de la banda por motivos personales.
la banda usando el ciento porciento letras tolkianas citando a libros como el silamrillion y el señor de los anillos. a principios del 2009 la banda termina su primer demo llamado¨ Tales of arda¨ que cuenta con 6 canciones con una duracion de menos de 30 minutos.
Angmar ahora esta trabajando en su segundo demo con la misma lirica y la misma intencion musical.
ANGMAR significa casa de hierro en el idioma elfico.
Tales of arda.
1.the beast of angmar
2.luthien
3.saruman
4.i am melkor
5.walk in the shade
6.into the mandos halls
grabado en menegroth records
grabado editado y producido por barahir y nazgul
contactos angmar.barahir@hotmail.com,nazgul_tanarukk@hotmail.com  

The few things that I understand is that Angmar is now 2 member project - Barahir - All instruments, Vocals and Nazgul - Vocals, Laments. The band is formed in 2007 and their first demo is recorded in 2009 called "Tales of Arda"  - 6 songs with a duration of less than 30 minutes. Angmar is now working on their second demo with the same lyrics and the same musical intention. 

6) DUNGEON SYNTH! https://flecktarnproductions.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Angmar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.