1. Angst was an American punk rock band from San Francisco, California, formed in 1980 by brothers Joseph Pope, Jon E. Risk, and drummer Michael Hursey (later replaced by Andy Kaps). 

Though Angst played many venues with a wide variety of bands, the majority of their shows locally were within the punk/hardcore scene. Their eclectic mix of punk, country, pop, 60s garage, etc. was not particularly well-received by the strict hardcore audiences of early ‘80s San Francisco. Angst actively sought out and played with many of Los Angeles based SST Records’ bands (Minutemen, Saccharine Trust, Meat Puppets, Black Flag, et al), and in 1984 was signed to the label. 

After releasing their debut LP Lite Life in 1985, Angst began to play outside of California, and embarked on their first national tour. Over the next four years they toured America and Europe several times, as well as continuing to play regularly in the San Francisco Bay Area and Los Angeles, though they were never able to gain any kind of following in their own home town. By early 1989 the band had run its course, and broke up after their final European tour.

2.  A short lived crust punk band from the East of England, featuring members of Deviated Instinct, active between 1985 and 1986. They never released anything officially, but live and rehearsal recordings from have been recently shared online. 

3.  A five piece hardcore band from the south east of England with a hard sound portraying the frustration and feelings of youth. http://www.myspace.com/thinkagainmate 

4. Norway's ANGST was a hardcore band. They released a flexi 7" in 1991, a 7" EP in 1992 and a split 7" with the japanese band Idora in 1993. They put their records out on the german label Heart First Records. Arne, the guitar player in Angst later ended up as Captain Poon in the rock band Gluecifer.

5. Angst is a swedish orthodox Black Metal band formed in 2003. They have released the demo Divine Wrath and the CD's In hoc signo vinces and Hail terror. 

6. There is also another Swedish band called Angst, a now-defunct hardcore-EBM band. 

7. Angst is also an experimental/noise music project which released some tapes in the early 80's on Club Moral's label.

8. Angst is also a band from Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.

9. Angst is also a band from Maldegem, Belgium. Original started as a three piece, raised from the ashes of the cult Flanders lo-fi/folkrock band Elisaveld, the soon became a four piece. Their music tries to connect the spare sound of Joy Division to the more detuned guitartunings of Sonic Youth, although each song is written from an indistinctable pop feeling.

10. Angst is also an anarcho-punk/hardcore band from Minneapolis, in which Jonathan Peterson (Red from Winter, The Blood of A Battery, The Crinn, Mystery's Middle Name, Jonny's got a Raygun, Eyes for Ears and more) sang.

11. Angst is also a fastcore/powerviolence band from the Netherlands. http://www.myspace.com/angst_hc

12. Angst is also a Black metal/techno/electro and industrial band from Belgium

13.Angst is a singer, rapper and a producer from Vancouver, Canada. He combines hip-hop and emo music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Angst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.