There are different bands with the name Angus:

(1)Angus is a Dutch heavy metal band formed in 1983. Claiming the name was inspired as much by their favorite guitar player, AC/DC's Angus Young, as by their favorite breed of Scottish bull (they claimed that the animal's rugged disposition typified their sound), vocalist Edgar Lois, guitarist Ed Sprey, bassist Gerard Carol, and drummer William Lawson first began tormenting neighbors in their native Amsterdam circa 1983. Typical of most Dutch heavy metal at the time, the band's raw, energetic style was indebted as much by the New Wave of British Heavy Metal as the older regime of the 1970s...and, yes, a little AC/DC as well. 

Angus recorded two songs for the compilation album ‘The Heavy Touch’ in the summer of 1985. Together with five other promising Dutch Metal bands ‘The Heavy Touch’ went on tour throughout Holland. ‘Lonesome Fighter’ (a composition of bass player Gerard) was one of the best songs of ‘The Heavy Touch’. The release of the compilation album was considered a success, due to record sales and a lot of media attention. 

In the summer of 1986 ‘Track of Doom’ was released. This debut album was produced by the four band members their selves and was full with excellent speed metal, which despite a low budget, did sound very good. Holland was shaking on his boots when ‘Track of Doom’ hit the national radio stations and TV channels. With songs from this album, Angus made it into the Polish metal top 20. Bear in mind that Poland at that time was still a socialist country behind the iron curtain! A new Dutch tour was set and due to promising record sales and positive feedback from fans and media, the album was released at the beginning of 1987 in the USA through Restless/Enigma Records. The label responsible for the success of bands like Poison and Stryper. 

In the year 1999 Denis Gulbey of Sentinel Steel Records got in contact with William Lawson via The Dutch Heavy Metal Maniacs, who compile songs from Dutch Metal bands on limited edition CD’s. Denis’s interest in Angus got drummer William’s old Metal heart pumping again. Denis and William tried to find old Angus material. After a while, the master tape of ‘Track of Doom’ was found in the vault of CBS records in Los Angeles. The unmixed reels of ‘Warrior of the World’ were found in the archives of the Dutch Siesta sound studios. These analog reels were converted to digital tapes and were remixed and mastered in the Trax East studios in New Jersey. By that time, Denis Gulbey had signed Angus for the releases of both ‘Track of Doom’ and ‘Warrior of the World’ on one Sentinel Steel production. 

April 2007 is Angus after almost 25 years of their start back in track with Leon Z. on vocals, Patrick Kruijer on guitar, Charles Heijnen on bass and William Lawson on drums to set the world again on fire with a reunion concert on december 22th in Germany at a huge festival. Plans are made to create new Angus songs for a brand-new CD. The gang is back together again, rehearsing and kickin' some ass as the old days, thanks to all the fans around the world to make Angus happen and see you somewhere on tour. 

Current line-up:
- Leon Z - vocals
- Patrick Kruijer - guitar
- Charles Heijnen - bass
- William Lawson - drums 

Official:  http://www.myspace.com/angusamsterdam

(2)Angus from Worcester, Massachusetts is an Alternative Rock band that play local gigs around the Worcester area. They have one EP that is on sale at their concerts.


(3) Angus are a Hard Rock band from Ballycastle, Northern Ireland. Angus formed in February 2007, and since then have played all over Northern Ireland. With plenty of Gigs under their belts they have been making their prescence felt where ever they go. Tearing up the music scene with their Rock Riffs, Pounding Rock Drums and Killer Bass lines that will Blow you away and make you want to come back for more, time and time again. The Line up consists of Ciaran Mc Micheal - Vocals and Lead Guitar, Blaine Mc Neil - Rhythm Guitar David Hill - Bass Guitar and Backing Vocals, Paddy Mc Gowan - Drums. 

They recently recorded there album, Road to Rock, In Broken Records, Portrush, Northern Ireland and gain more and more fans daily. You can find them http://www.myspace.com/angustheband or http://www.bebo.com/Angus-music.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Angus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.