Formed in 1981 Anihilated are one of the longest serving thrash bands in the UK. Emerging from  Hardcore Punk origins, they began to bring elements of aggressive metal into their sound and by the time the Speedwell sessions was recorded in 1984 the crossover sound was firmly entrenched. The track “Inferno” was chosen as the opening salvo on the then fledgling “Peaceville” record label's first ever release, the Flex disc “Will Evil Win”  . A self financed 12” “Path To Destruction” was released a year and a half later, further evidencing the leap into thrash metal territory. It captured something within it's rough sound and simple structure and caused waves in the thrash community over the years, despite its limited vinyl release, PTD became something of a cult classic around the world.

A heavy gigging schedule followed across England with bands such as Death Angel, Onslaught, Sabbat, Sacrilege and Acid Reign. These shows built Anihilated a solid fan base and eventually caught the attention of record labels.1988's recording, “Created in Hate” the first full length release was hailed by some as the “most important UK thrash release to date” even with the raw performances and very poor production. The momentum was gained, the shows kept coming and the song writing matured. Taking on the criticisms of “Created in Hate” refining sound and structure a new album was written whilst on the road.
The following year “The Ultimate Desecration” was recorded but, due to hold ups and other technical issues, the release was delayed and the promotion behind it fell short of expectations leaving Anihilated lagging behind their contemporaries. The disappointment of this, coupled with the drop in support for UK thrash and the ailing economy of Britain took the momentum out of the band and  Anihilated, along with many other fine bands of the genre in the early 1990's, found it impossible to continue and amid the carnage they disbanded.

During the early years of the new millennium original members Si, Bod and Mark met up to discuss the offers of re-releases world wide. The internet had provided fans of the band with old write ups and recordings and this had sparked interest from Japanese, Chinese, Brazilian and Italian labels who re-mastered and re-released the entire back catalogue of Anihilated on CD and in the case of PTD on vinyl. Finally, in 2008, following pressure from fans around the globe, The trio began writing a new album. The addition of Todd on second guitar filled out the sound and after two years “Scorched Earth Policy” was unleashed on the world. Lords of Metal E-Zine described it as “The comeback album of the year” a view held by many reviewers and fans. Solid live shows in mainland Europe and the UK cemented Anihilated as one of the spearheads of the re-emerging UK thrash metal scene. A growing fanbase eagerly awaited the next album and they were not disappointed as “iDeviant” finally hit the streets in 2013. The excellent Danny B (Criminal, Pentagram Chile) replaced Mark on guitar in 2013 and festival headline slots described as                  “ Monstrous” were played.

Already Anihilated are writing their next album, it promises to outstrip everything that has gone before; more speed, more power, more anger!

A new era, a new show more festival slots and gigs being booked. WAKE UP AND SEE WAKE UP BE FREE!!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anihilated">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.