Larissa de Macedo Machado, known professionally as Anitta, is a Brazilian singer, songwriter, dancer, businesswoman and TV presenter. She rose to national fame with the release of her single "Show das Poderosas" in 2013.

After achieving commercial success with her debut single "Meiga e Abusada" in 2012, she signed a recording contract with Warner Music Brazil in January 2013. In July of the same year, she released her self-titled debut album which produced four successful singles and was certified platinum in Brazil. Her second studio album, Ritmo Perfeito (2014), also achieved commercial success in the country, and was accompanied by the release of her first live album Meu Lugar, on the same day. In 2015, she released her third studio album entitled Bang, which was certified platinum and spawned four successful singles "Deixa Ele Sofrer", the title track "Bang", "Essa Mina é Louca" and "Cravo e Canela". The album played a crucial role on establishing her almost dominant position in Brazilian pop music.

Between 2016 and 2018, Anitta embarked on numerous collaborations with artists such as Nile Rodgers, Maluma, Iggy Azalea, Major Lazer, Alesso and J Balvin, among others. In 2017, she released her first Spanish song "Paradinha", which catapulted her partial transition to Spanish-language Latin pop and reggaeton music. Her collaboration on the same year with Colombian singer J Balvin "Downtown", became her breakthrough song in several Spanish-speaking countries. In 2019, she joined several collaborations with artists such as Madonna, Sofía Reyes, Rita Ora, Luis Fonsi, Ozuna and Black Eyed Peas. She later received critical acclaim for her trilingual fourth studio visual album, Kisses (2019), which earned her a nomination for the Latin Grammy Award for Best Urban Music Album. In March 2022, her Spanish single "Envolver" released by late 2021, from her fifth studio album Versions of Me (2022), topped the Global Top 50 chart on Spotify, making Anitta the first Brazilian artist and the first Latin female artist with a solo song to do so.

Anitta was named by the Associação Paulista de Críticos de Arte (APCA) as the revelation of the year in music in 2013. She has received numerous accolades and several nominations at the Latin Grammy Awards, Latin American Music Awards, Billboard Latin Music Awards and Premios Lo Nuestro awards. Anitta has won five MTV Europe Music Awards for Best Brazilian Act, and became the first Brazilian artist to win the award for Best Latin American Act. In 2017, she was ranked as one of the most influential celebrities in social media according to Billboard. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anitta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.