Annathema was formed in October 1982. Bend was influenced by Judast Priest, Motorhead, Van Helen, AC/DC … and other bands from that period. 
First members of the bend were: Balaban Miodrag STRAVA – Bubanj
                              Radojcic Dragan RADOJA – Gitara
          Zivkovic Mirko ZILE – Bass
       Vojislav Vilic USAR – Guitar, Vocal
As such it had it’s first live concert 03.04.1983, after which members are going to the Yugoslavian army (which was mandatory at that time) 
Band is seriously starting with creating its music in May 1985. USAR is leaving and is replaced by two new members:
                   Vukobratovic Branimir BRANA – Guitar
                              Uvalic Dusan FRANCUZ – Vokal
They recorded first demo album in summer 1985 with only five songs…
After the demo has been recorded BRANA is leaving and is replaced by Vujkov Milan VUJA.  
Next demo has been recorded with new five songs.
Bend is getting in touch with Heavy Metal manager, Konstantin Pozlovic who, at that time, was publishing fanzine called “Explosive”
With his help song recorded on demo such as: Loud&Proud Deaf,  Rough Sound, To Hell and Back , Killer Machine  are getting to their fans with incredible speed.  
After that band is having the tours with, at that time, the biggest stars of Heavy Metal on Balkans, Divlje Jagode and Griva. 

In period from 1986 till 1991 bend had about hundred concerts, mainly in Vojvodina, and some significant concerts in Belgrade and Ljubljana. 1989 had a concert with German famous band Destruction, 1990 concert in Romania, and one concert in Tuzla with death metal veterans Bloodbath in 1991.

1991 band is having a solo concert in Belgrade after which there is long period when band stops with it’s work until 1998 when band gathers again in this formation: STAVRA, VUJE, ZILE and LJUBA (guitar) and as such is recording new album “DON' T  GO DOWN”

In the middle of year 2000 serbian publishing house “one rec.” has done the complete re-make of that album on CD.

During 2000 band has three performances at exit festival and with some changes of members is continuing with its work.
In 2009 band is again going to studio and is making a come back album.

Curent lie up:  STAVRA - drums
                      ZILE - bass
                      VUJA - guitar
                      MARKO - guitar
                      BLAZAMAD - vocals


Discographies:
1988 ANATHEMA (publishing house “panonija koncert”) LP/MC
1990 EMPIRE OF NOISE (“explosive records”) LP/MC (cover for this album was done by comic book maker Bane Kerac, famous by his series of comic books “Cat claw”) 
Record “Empire of noise” as an extremely rear metal record, has reached a very high value among collectors, up to 500 US dollars. 
Check it at: 
http://cgi. ebay. com/ANNATHEMA-EMPIRE-OF-NOISE-MEGA-RARE-METAL-PRIVATE-LP_W0Q
QitemZ390007203061QQihZ026QQcategoryZ306QQtcZphotoQQcmdZView
Item
1998 DON'T GO DOWN (“explosive record”) MC
Video clips: : Loud& Proud, Deaf
                     To Hell and Back.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Annathema">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.