Anna Yvette is an indie, alternative artist from Westbury, New York, United States who started recording her own music in 2005.

Anna was raised in a house where Rock and Roll reigned supreme, but she listens to hardcore rock and punk, as well as “jam bands” such as Moe and Particle. It was through this exposure to various genres of music that her fascinating hybrid style of songwriting was born.

Anna recorded her first untitled EP reprisal, which she wrote, produced, and played in 2005. She spent the rest of 2007 rocking the NYC circuit and other venues on the northeast coast before her popularity transcended into the Midwest. With the release of 2008's full length album Moonlighter, she supported the album with a Midwest tour that ended with a memorable performance in front of thousands of fans in Walker, Minnesota at Moondance Jam, where Anna Yvette joined music legends such as, Crosby Stills and Nash, Sebastian Bach, Poison, Sweet, Great White, Boz Scaggs, and many others. In June of 2009, she released the EP Ships of Theseus, and came in second place with her song "Hey Tommy" in the Windows Sponsored Song campaign, beating out thousands of other SIGNED artists. Anna Yvette supported her new release with a Midwest tour, and once again played at Moondance Jam, only this time she opened up for the infamous Sheryl Crow and shared the stage with country legend Jodi Messina.

Anna has been featured on the "Out of the Box" radio show on Q104.3 in New York City and has taken the college radio waves by storm. Her music has been played on over 300 stations across the United States and Canada and received acclaim from New York’s #1 music station and nationally syndicated morning show “The Z Morning Zoo” on Z100, for the song "Give It Up Girl." Anna also actively participates in many charities, and often combines her music with raising awareness for them. She has played for over 3,000 people at the Human Rights Rally for China at Union Square in NYC, and is also involved with Global Outreach, GO Brazil, One, and The Multiple Sclerosis Society. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anna+Yvette">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.