1. Members: Aaron Gossett(guitar/vocals), Jordan Aletraris(guitar/vocals), Shane Nesmith(Bass)

Bunch of friends that are from Peachtree City, Georgia. Mixing sounds from harder, heavy music but still keeping a soft indie tone. Currently a work in progress.




2. Members: Paul Hanna (Lead Vocals and Lead Guitar), Craig Hanna (Drums), and Josh Krouth(Bass)

From: Green Bay
Influences: KISS, Flipp, The Beatles, Metallica, Motley Crue

Walk into an annex show and get smacked with a wall of sound. This is a rock band. The Marshalls are dialed high, the Les Pauls are cranked, middle fingers split the glaring lights to say "Fuck all of you, we're here to rock!" Guitars slap you in the face Drums drown out your heart beat Lights buzz with the bass lines Beers jump in the air with the hands raising them Hair flying, heads banging, the room quakes with each downbeat Until the last piercing scream of exhaustion rounds out the encore and the lights go out. There's no such thing as silence as the last riff continues to echo in your head Broken drumsticks and guitar strings are all over the stage, everyone is passed out, exhausted from being so thoroughly rocked! After a 15 minute cuddle and a chaser, you stumble out in a post orgasmic trance. 

Annex is the rock machine created by brothers Paul Hanna, lead vocal and guitar, and Craig Hanna, drummer. In the decade to follow their middle school debut, they’ve traveled coast-to-coast leaving trails of exhausted, happy fans. No ifs, ands or buts about it, Annex is a high-energy rock band. The songs are catchy and melodic, based on rock fundamentals that slap the listener in the face. Annex continues to captivate audiences everywhere they play. Their chaotic rock and roll show brought the house down year after year at the infamous MTV spring break hot spot Club La Vela in Panama City Beach, Florida. They’ve also rocked the stage with The Spin Doctors, Seven Mary Three, The Gin Blossoms, Sponge, Great White, REO Speedwagon, and others. 

3. Annex hail from McAllen, a border town on the Texas/Mexico border, and they play an impassioned form of darkwave and postpunk-influenced punk that may be better categorized as "dark punk" rather than deathrock.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Annex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.