Annie is the stage name of the Norwegian pop artist Anne Lilia Berge Strand (born 21 November 1977 in Trondheim). She currently resides in Berlin. Her debut album, Anniemal, was released in 2004. The name originally was an idea of her late boyfriend Tore Kroknes, who produced her 1999 single "Greatest Hit". Annie worked with Timo Kaukolampi (ex-Op:l Bastards), as well as Richard X, who produced and co-write the single "Chewing Gum" and the Geri Halliwell diss "Me Plus One". The Röyksopp-produced second single "Heartbeat" was voted number 1 on Pitchfork Media's Top 50 singles of 2004 before the song was even officially released. "Chewing Gum" ranked at number 11. On 17 January 2007, Annie signed with Island Records. The first single from her second album Don’t Stop, "I Know UR Girlfriend Hates Me", was released in July 2008. Annie recalls the idea of the song as an attempt to recreate the drums and guitars from Prince’s "Kiss". As she states in her blog: “Of course it ended being nothing like Prince... but that's where the inspiration came from". Although it had a positive critical reception, it peak at number 54 in the UK, making this her lowest charting physical single to date. The music video was directed by Sarah Chatfield.

After numerous delays, Don’t Stop, her second album, was scheduled for release on April 2009. However, on 25 November 2008, Annie announced that she had decided to part ways with Island Records, leaving her second album's future uncertain. The original version of the album leaked.

In May 2009, Annie released a Richard X production entitled "Anthonio". The song tells the story of a holiday affair between Annie and a man named Anthonio who she met in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Annie described the song as "the ultimate summer track". The release was followed by digital releases of "Songs Remind Me Of You" and "My Love Is Better".

Don’t Stop was finally released in November 2009 to rave reviews. The album contained new tracks with Paul Epworth and a special edition bonus disc was made available.

Annie's work has been awarded and critically acclaimed. In 2005 Annie won several awards for her work, including Best Pop Album and Best Newcomer at the Norwegian Alarm Awards ("Chewing Gum" had also been nominated for Song of the Year). Annie also won the Best Newcomer award at the prestigious Spellemannsprisen, the Norwegian Grammy Awards. 

Annie's February 5th performance at the Alarm Awards was one of her first ever live performances. She also toured around the world to promote Anniemal, including a brief United Kingdom tour with Saint Etienne, to whom she had sent a demo tape while still in the band, Suitcase in 1996. Annie performed at sold out club venues in the United States in the summer of 2005, and returned to the US later that year. That same year, Annie released a compilation in the DJ-Kicks series on the !K7 label. Annie started a record label with Timo Kaukolampi called Totally. 

On 29 July 2013 she released The A&R EP, a collaboration with Richard X. This EP included the single "Back Together". The Autumn of 2015 saw the release of her second EP with Richard X entitled Endless Vacation.

Official site: http://anniemelody.com/


2.  Annie is a Pakistani singer, very popular on  India and Pakistan for the song  "Mahiya" Remix - Awarapan.

Noor–ul–Ain popularly known as Annie, (Punjabi, Urdu: عینی) is a Pakistani pop singer. Annie was born in 1984 in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. In 1985, her parents moved to London where she grew up.
Annie started her singing career at the age of fifteen. In 2000, during a summer vacation in Pakistan, she performed for the first time in a live concert for Abrarul Haq's charity in Sargodha.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Annie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.