There’s something happening in Australia. In the past 12 months there has been an insurgence of metal acts that adhere to a standard far beyond that of your typical unsigned Australian band. Bands like Dred (now Oroborus), Templestowe and Aeon of Horus place great value on high quality production, recordings and exceptional artwork. Anno Domini are the next band to join the ranks of those striving for metal perfection. Anno Domini were founded at the beginning of the millennium in uptight suburbia on the North Shore of Sydney. Five high school misfits were brought together by their need for distortion and double kicks. Danny Straughen and Iain McLure – the lead and rhythm guitarists – were the founders of Anno Domini. Amir Bukan joined as drummer and Dan Kendall rounded out the line up on bass. Kieran Helmore was a roadie and sound engineer for the band when they began with their original singer. A year later Kieran joined the band as keyboard player and after a direction change is now their full time front man. Although they have been in the metal scene for the past 6 years, their youngest members have only recently been legally allowed into the venues. Their sound, ever evolving from their nonstop gigging up and down the east coast has mutated into a tighter live show although more intense and chaotic. Anno Domini’s sound is an amalgamation of styles with influences as diverse as Behemoth, Vader, Dimmu Borgir and Amon Amarth. Anno Domini have spent 2009 recording their debut album ‘Atrocities’ at East Street Studio in Sydney. ‘Atrocities’ was mastered by Jens Bogren (Opeth/Katatonia/Bloodbath). Their debut offering is a crushing blend of death, black and symphonic metal, dubbed as “skilled and intense” by Jens. In 2009 Anno Domini landed a much coveted slot on USC Metalfest 2009 at the Factory Theatre as well as the support for Brazilian band Krisiun on their April Southern Storm Tour at the Manning Bar, and recently was selected to perform at Utopia’s 30th Anniversary show supporting Mortal sin and The Amenta. Anno Domini commenced their first ever east coast tour which included 3 Melbourne dates and a Brisbane date. They kicked off the tour performing as a main support at Wagga Open Air supporting US metalcore heavy weights Darkest Hour and Carnifex. In September 2010 Anno Domini supported Norwegian Black Metal gods Mayhem at there Sydney Show. More recently, Anno Domini we’re selected to support Nevermore on there 2011 Australia tour in Sydney alongside Daysend. Anno Domini are now preparing material for a 2012 release and will be hitting the road with Switzerland's Industrial metal act Sybreed as main support in March 2012. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anno+Domini">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.