The name Annunaki refers to at least two musical projects, a metal band from New Jersey and a psychedelic trance project from North Carolina:

(1) The road to Annunaki's inception is a long and storied one, with many detours along the way. Hailing from Bayonne, New Jersey, four individuals with one voice - a vigorous outlashing of savage brutality. Rooted squarely in the extreme metal field, Annunaki extends beyond, delivering an intense thrash metal assault fused with elements of blackened death metal.

Beginning in late 2005, the trio of Kevin Kuzma, John Blicharz, and Karl Odenwalder, sought an outlet for their aggression. The band had a desire to transcend the restrictions of the thrash metal genre. With influences ranging from the extreme death metal and black metal fields, the band sought a vocalist who could make these influences felt in their music. The band recruited vocalist Tony Stanziano to achieve their desired sound, and Annunaki was born.

After demoing several tracks in early 2006, the material evolved simultaneously with the band. In a few short months, Annunaki had conjured a collection of brutal songs to be unleashed upon the masses. In June 2006, Sharing the stage with Metal Mike's Painmuseum, Annunaki made an impact immediately with their live debut. Since then, Annunaki has shared the stage with the likes of Carnivore, Deicide, Nachtmystium, Anal Cunt, Lair of the Minotaur, among others.

In late September 2006, Annunaki entered the studio to carve their creations in stone. Recorded with Eric Kvortek at Trax East Studios(God Forbid, Symphony X, Sinai Beach) and mastered at West-West Side Music with Alan Douches (Suffocation, Cannibal Corpse, Krisiun, Nile), the relentless aggression conjured and crafted over the last year has been compiled and dispersed among thirteen tracks. A vicious onslaught from start to finish, "Throne of the Annunaki" takes metal to every extreme. Annunaki shall continue on their path in 2007, leaving no boundary uncrossed.

(2) The Annunaki is also the name of a psychedelic trance project from western North Carolina by Christopher Johnson (DJ Kri) and Alex Marano (The Fuzz). Writing music with conceptual themes of ancient Sumer and alien invasion stories, the Annunaki write psytrance strongly influenced by 1990s Goa trance sounds, as is evident in their bold synth melodies. They also draw influence from more modern psytrance in terms of percussion and bass programming. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Annunaki">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.