There are ten artists with this name:

1) Death metal band from Lithuania.
2) Producer/Hip Hop DJ based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He is most notably known for collaboration with Rhymesayers emcees Slug, Eyedea and his partner DJ Abilities.
3) Dutch band.
4) Downtempo producer from Evanston, Illinois.
5) Progressive metal band from Pasadena, Maryland.
6) Musician from Russia.
7) Progressive rock super group.
8) Alter ego of Thorleifur Gislason, Icelandic electronica composer.
9) Queer punk/hardcore from Chicago
10) Swedish-English rapper and YouTuber/Twitch Streamer, also known as Lil Anomaly

1) Anomaly is Death metal band from Lithuania (Klaipėda), band was formed in 1993 and expressed its brutal ideas on a full-length debut album "Disforic Agony", released in 1996. In 1997 ANOMALY performed at "Naujas Kraujas (New Blood)" festival where the band's musical skills were evaluated against other fresh bands from Lithuanian undeground scene. ANOMALY played a lot of gigs, sharing stage with HYPOCRISY, KRABATHOR, MERESSIN, RUINATION, SHADOWDANCES, and KATEDRA among others. However, due to pesonal reasons the bandmembers stopped common creative activity in 1998. The years of silence did not go in vain. Vocalist Andrius (Graindas) played bass guitar in THE PERPLEXX, while Valentinas (Valiokas) continued songwriting and introduced his project CHAIN OF EVENTS. As all of the bandmembers remained good friends, there were rumours about ANOMALY coming back to life. Finally, in the summer of 2008, ten years after the break up Graindas (vocals), Valiokas (guitar) and Mamertonis (drums) started rehearsing again. Former bass player Gumis was substituted with Regis (ex-DARK SIDE) while the place of guitarist Liucifer was taken by Audrius (Bezdukas) from temporarily suspended band MOOD. Currently ANOMALY is intensively creating and rehearsing, looking forward to justifying their well earned reputation as brutal death metal masters.


2) Anomaly (real name Jason Heinrichs) is a producer/musician/DJ based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He's worked with Brother Sun Sister Moon featuring Barb Cohen and Paul Robb from Information Society, he's jammed with Prince, bassist Anthony Cox and Slug of Atmosphere at the Groove Garden jams. 
He's remixed Kelley Deal of the Breeders and Atmosphere. He's currently producing and DJing house with his group Roomsa featuring Lady Sarah and downtempo project Anomaly featuring vocalist Bethany. 


3)   ANOMALY are a 4-member Dutch band whose style deftly combines prog metal, fusion and classical themes, with a focus on electric guitar and keyboards. Their music often sounds improvised and takes a while to sink in, but their compositions are mature, the arrangements sophisticated, and the overall effect is a perfect blend of beauty and strength - a combination of jazz and metal elements that sounds totally natural. Although hailed as the Dutch LIQUID TENSION EXPERIMENT, they definitely have a style of their own. The band consists of keyboard player Ivar Pijper and guitarist Rory Hansen who both write all of the bands' compositions, and of John Aponno on bass as well as John Paul Muñoz on drums. 


4) Anomaly is a producer from Chicago, USA. His music is a mellow melodic mix of samples and synthesis.


5) A progressive metal band from Pasadena, Maryland, drawing influence from late 80's, early 90's metal bands such as Death, Gorguts, Cynic, Malevolent Creation, Foreign Objects. Founded in late 2004 by Ryan Thall, lead guitars/vocals, and Ray Warrick, rhythm guitars/vocals, Anomaly's goal is to create a new form of music based on fresh ideas with great emphasis on riff and beat structure, as well as cynical and metaphorical lyrical content.

After a year of searching for a drummer when their previous, unnamed band split up, they found Bill, an all-around musician who offered to take up drums, and was eagerly accepted. A few demo tracks were released in early 2005, and Anomaly began to draw an audience from all over the world. Late 2005 came with new demo tracks, and a handful of shows. In 2006, Anomaly began focusing on writing/arranging new material based off of different influences, experimenting with different ideas and sounds to complete their concept album. This evolution is still in the works.

As of now, Anomaly is temporarily on hiatus, though Ryan and Ray are still writing and arranging said material to release at a later, undisclosed date.


6) Anomaly is an amateur musician from Russia, Moscow. The core of his work is dedicated to the network game "Бойцовский Клуб" (Fight Club), which was extremely popular with the russians up to now. The plots of his tracks and all the characters are the legendary ones and are taken from the history of this game.
Unfortunately no single song was released and this once again underlined a concern for music rather than for a commercial interest. Thus
a set of lone records are walking about the internet)


7) Anomaly was also a short lived progressive rock super group consisting of vocalist Jim Dorian, percussionist Sean Reinert, bassist Sean Malone and guitarist Jim Studnicki. They released one album in 1998, titled Anomaly.

8) Anomaly is the alter ego of Thorleifur Gislason, Icelandic electronica composer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anomaly">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.