Anomally is a Gothic/Death Metal band from the Island of Terceira, Azores which arose from the long standing dream of two friends. After various attempts, Tiago and Miguel united the conditions needed to form a consistent band. Later, Nelson (ex-Lithium) was invited to fill the spot of vocalist: his powerful and guttural voice, was what Tiago and Miguel were looking for. 

January of 2005 marked the beginning of Anomally with Tiago on the guitar, Miguel on the keyboard, Nelson as vocals and Jerry Rocha (ex-Lithium) on the samplers and programming. After three months they came to the conclusion that the sounds they were playing didn’t exactly correspond to what they had set out for initially: the combination of Metal with Electronics. During this period the band created music that served as a base to define a style that suited all the band members, a mixture of Gothic with Death Metal, the main influence of the members at that time.

In September, Zé Pires (ex-Gods Sin, ex-4Saken) with more than enough proof of experience, joined the Anomally, being a great contribution as a percussionist, and in this way the band no longer using electronic percussion. In October Jerry Rocha leaves the band due to personal motives, and in November, Lote (ex-Asinto, ex-Next) joins the group, bringing a new atmosphere to the music created by the band. Fast paced rhythms, reminiscent of old school Thrash Metal, and his melodious voice, are some of the main characteristics of this new member. The Anomally’s are in this way composed by Tiago on guitar, Lote on guitar and vocals, Nelson as vocals, Miguel on the synthesizers, and Zé Pires on percussion, on bass the band counts with the support of Miguel Angelo, an invited member which only plays at the concerts.

During a whole year the band composed some original soundtracks and prepared covers for world known Metal Bands. In February of 2006 the band independently produced a CD merely for promotional ends, which includes three songs produced by them that demonstrate the music created by the band. The end of the world, hypocrisy in the church (because religion can serve as a mask for the worst of society), true facts from daily life, are the main themes that compose the various tracks of this CD.

On the 15th of April of 2006 the band had its debut concert at the Fanfarra Operária in Angra do Heroísmo, a concert that marked the history of the band by the success and great public reception to their original songs played that night.

At this moment the band is in midst of recording their new CD. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anomally">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.