Ansel Elgort (born March 14, 1994) is an American actor and DJ under the stage name Ansolo (sometimes stylized as Ansølo). As a film actor, he is known for playing Tommy Ross in Carrie (2013), Caleb Prior in The Divergent Series (2014) and Augustus Waters in The Fault in Our Stars (2014).

Early life

Elgort was born in Manhattan. His parents are Arthur Elgort, a fashion photographer who has worked extensively for Vogue for over thirty years, and Grethe Barrett Holby, an opera director. His father is of Russian Jewish descent, and his mother is of English, German, and Norwegian ancestry. His maternal grandmother, Aase-Grethe, was in the Norwegian resistance during World War II, and saved Norwegian Jewish children by moving them into neutral Sweden; because of these activities, she was imprisoned in a concentration camp.

Elgort has two older siblings, Warren, a film editor, and Sophie, a photographer. At the age of nine, his mother took him to try out for School of American Ballet. He attended The Professional Performing Arts School, Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School and Stagedoor Manor summer camp. While at LaGuardia, Elgort performed in a rendition of Hairspray with Kyle Jean-Baptiste. Elgort started taking acting classes at the age of twelve and starred in his high school's productions of Guys and Dolls and the aforementioned Hairspray.

Music

Under the name "Ansolo", Elgort created a SoundCloud account to publish electronic dance music, and he has remixed songs such as "Born to Die" by Lana del Rey. In a livestream in February 2014 he stated he had signed a record deal with Tom Staar's new label Staar Traxx and Steve Angello Size Records.

His first record "Unite" was released on April 21, 2014 on Beatport, and May 5, 2014 on iTunes. His second record, "Totem", was released July 21, 2014 on Beatport and iTunes. His single "To Life", a Bar Mitzvah-themed song, was released in September 2015.

He played in the Electric Zoo Festival main stage in 2014, Ultra Music Festival main stage in March 2015, played in red light dance music event in Amsterdam in 2014, opened some The Chainsmokers shows, a NERVO show, and some others shows with his friends Nicky Romero and Martin Garrix. He played his first headline show on his 21st birthday on Pacha NYC.

In 2015, he signed a record deal with Island Records, and released his first single titled 'Home Alone' in July 2016. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ansel+Elgort">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.