"Antabus started summer 1996 in Tidaholm. The setting then was: Micke - song & guitar, Krille - bass, Masken - drums. Micke and Masken had then played together earlier in a band called Ebenholtz. With this setting did we only one recording, namely "Promo 96" that we sent around to miscellaneous magazines and comp tapes. That´s about all we did before spring 1997 when Magnus who then played with End Of Silence jumped in on bass instead of Krille. And it was now that it began to work out properly. With this line up change became the music much more aggressive. Micke & Masken did the lyrics and the music was made together in the rehearsal room down on Musikens Hus. After we have done a couple songs we decided that we wanted to record some songs to a split 7", the problem was that we didn´t had someone to split with, so Magnus called Ted in Hellshit and asked. And they were right into it .... Masken and Ted divided on the costs and the debut was a fact. The split was recorded in summer 1997 and in December the same year was it about time again to enter the studio. This time for recording a 5 track demo (we thought). We did a demo that was copied up in maybe 100 copies and was sent around and sold before Hepatit D Rec from Gothenburg/Malmö rang and said that they wanted to release it on a 7''. We were right on it of course and Hellraiser 7'' came out in the summer/the autumn 1998. We did a recording in january 1998 with 4 songs that we wanted to release as a 7'' but jthe label that would release it (Deadly Path) dropped it all and it ended with the songs being used to different compilations instead. Too bad because this was the best recording we did. After we quitted the band Masken released the songs on a cassette called Face Of Evil, along with other unreleased songs. Antabus did about 10 gigs , and the last 2 was with Jocke from Affray on drums since Masken at this time lived in Oslo. This was the end of the band and 1999 sometime the last rehearsal was a fact...So I guess you can say that it was a while ago since our last rehearsal. But each time we meet all 3 we are talking about restart the band , so who knows? ....Time to rise? Magnus and Masken now plays in Sub Alert , and Micke in The Liptones. Masken is also doing the drumming in Hellshit"

- Taken from their myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Antabus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.