Antalgia is a progressive symphonic metal band from Lleida (Spain) formed in late 2008 after musical worries of Igna Jover (guitarist).

Formation (2008-2010)
The original line-up included Igna Jover (guitars) and Albert Gasen (drums).They shortly after recruited Xavi Sanchez on keyboards and Raquel Domingo on vocals.
Initially being a metal cover band, they got a lot of positive feedback for their interpretations from bands like Dream Theater, Yngwie Malmsteen, Sonata Artica, Helloween, Metallica.

In the summer of 2009 the band started to write their own material with influences varying from rock to death metal and Xavi decided to leave the band.

Antalgia's first demo "Persuasion" was to be released November 2009, but the difficulty of finding committed musicians delayed the recordings until Dani Campos on keyboards and Xavi Orga on bass joined the band to start the recordings on May 2010.
The full versions of their music have been digital released on their website for free downloading and it contains three original progmetal songs that were mastered by Mika Jussila at Finnvox.

The band is thrown to the stage in early 2010 having a very good reception from the audience so they began writing their debut album in the summer of 2010, but the bassist decided to leave the band for personal reasons being replaced by Carlos Falomir and one month later, the band parted ways with singer due to differences in the commitment required to be in a music band, and Bella Dianez joined the band, filling the vacant spot.

Perception Of Reality (2011-)
In early 2011 they started to record they first album called "Perception Of Reality" at Igna's recording studio, but due to some personal reasons of some of the members, the release has been delayed until mid 2012.

Antalgia is now preparing the release of their first album and a big European tour for about one month long, supporting metal masters Therion 25th anniversary tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Antalgia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.