January 12, 1994. São Paulo, S.P. Brazil, a band that would become one of the most prestigious banners of Radical Brazilian Metal was born: Antidemon.

In the first months the group had five members, but then leveled off with Batista, who took over the voice and bass guitar and KLEBER GONÇALVES ELKE Garzoli on drums, which is one of the most remarkable features of the band, it is not exactly a usual place for a woman (also the wife of Batista), within a band so aggressive style and known internationally. This trio of warriors managed to overcome with the help of God, to innumerable and gigantic problems, a total lack of media and the skepticism of those around them, to show that his faith was not vain and God could open unexpected doors to lift and place in the metal scene in Brazil. The barriers were crumbling. After this foray into the domestic market with a demo tape the group begins to make their way, and in 1997 created a work that would bring the name of the band overstep the boundaries of the country, the demo "Eternal Confinamento" which had a surprising acceptance and historical sales..

"DEMONOCÍDIO" released in September 1999, succeeded in a very short time become a classic in that style. The 27 subjects took Antidemon to join the list of the most recognized bands in Brazil. The album was distributed across the planet by labels like Nordic Mission (Norway), Christian Metal (Portugal) and Little Rose (Finland).  

In November 1999 he founded the "COMMUNITIE ZADOQUE" these stubborn warriors defined as "the most valuable and fresh fruit" of their work. Soon Zadoque Community, a great Christian ministry dedicated to the "underground" scene, was expanded and conquered a physical space in the neighborhood of Barra Funda in São Paulo, where he became one of the best open spaces in music underground Brazil, being also the scene of historical presentations Antidemon own. Besides being a place to rehabilitate drug addicts and their reintegration into society, the Community is a Christian movement mainly aimed at young people. In mid-2003 and the ministry had 9 centers spread across the country.

In March 2002 the metalheads Antidemon leave the country for the first time and tread the soil of Mexico on a tour called "Mexican Demonocídio Tour 2002" tour that produced 10 fantastic concerts visiting the towns of Tlalnepantla (Mexico City), Chalco, Orizaba , Puebla, Oaxaca, Mexico City, Toluca, Acambaro, Guadalajara and Leon, over 32 days where the Mexicans were passionate about the band.

Antidemon then proposed a challenge that seemed impossible. Recording a new CD in a language not his own, Castilian (Spanish), in only 4 days.

After grueling sessions succeeded "Anillo de Fuego" (Ring Of Fire) was born.The acceptance in Brazil was amazing despite the fact that the new album was released in a foreign language, and comments on the work were fantastic. It opened new doors and began shipping CD significantly by Spanish-speaking countries.

In August 2003 Antidemon radicals depart for one of the greatest achievements in its history: Europe. The band went touring to Germany, Holland, Belgium, Portugal and Spain, although the greatest expectation rests on the great German festival "FREACK STOCK" in the city of Gotha, with a duration of 4 days and over 60 bands from around the world .

The 2004 is the year of the publication of the third CD of the band, and this time you expect something spectacular for several reasons: First, this year will mark the first decade of Antidemon spiritual battle, and is sure to bring the best of themselves to celebrate and give glory to the Creator, anniversary, on the other hand, will open the doors for a particularly large number of concerts.

The experience gained over the years, especially after the hard work of recent years in various parts of the world will not go unnoticed.

This is all that we offer in this biography of a band that has worked hard and well, and notably has maintained its original members for 10 tireless years, a rarity in these times.

But even ended up here this "history of Antidemon", not the last we hear of such training, we should not forget that Batista and his wife Elke and Kleber, ie Antidemon, today, continues to write its history.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Antidemon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.