Antinomy was born in Milan (Italy) on September 2005 following an idea of Eric [drums] and Marco [bass] immediately joined by Maurizio [guitar] and Johana [voice]: four friends, coming from Milanese underground scene [Mortis Causa, (eATsHIt), Disliked, Inside Human Cruelty], combined their Metal influences giving birth a new artistic project. For a little period a second guitarist played with the band but because of his little enthusiasm and lack of honesty he was sent away. With a solo guitar the band dedicated itself to songs' composition and arrangements. Some of that will be chosen for the first demo CD of the band. Marco, Eric and Maurizio wrote the instrumental parts of the songs and Johana blocked out the lyrics and vocal melodies. At last the CD contains different tracks melting together various Metal musical aspects: from extreme violence to Gothic atmospheres, from Thrash to avantgard Industrial/New-Metal. On 2007 Antinomy started to record their first autoproducted debut album. For the album recording the band decided to exploit it's own instrumentations. The CD cover was drawn by Claudio, a friend of the band. Finally, on June 22, 2007 the Antinomy's debut album "Origin of all Pains" was ready. It will be hand out for free on Internet (official band site and MySpace), and for complimentary copies in Italians and worldwide festivals. 

In the last months of 2007, Antinomy goes across some personal problems among some members of the band. Consequently, at the beginning of the year 2008, Johana was expelled from the band, that remains without vocalist. To ride over the difficulties, Antinomy decides to insert a keyboard steadily, until now only presents in the studio demo-CD. For this reason, Eric leaves the drumset and goes to keyboard (already played in elettro-industrial side project) and a new drummer is annunced: Cristiano, an Eric's friend. The new lineup give new strength to the band, that put aside the past problems permanently. It's a new beginning for Antinomy! The band start to rearrange the demo songs and compose some new songs, more keyboard-oriented with an inedit gothic/horror imprint. 

During the early 2008 Antinomy still searching for a new vocalist, but the first ones are exetremely disappointing. 
Finally in the month of april, thanks to Alessandra, a Maurizio's friend and singer in DiscoInferno and House of Noises, Antinomy meets a promising singer with a very sweet, beautiful voice and an excellent personal feeling with all the members. So, in April 16th, 2008, Antinomy officialy announces the new female vocalist of the band: Irina.

The line-up is now complete.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Antinomy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.