There is more than one artist with this name:

1) A hardcore band from New York. Antidote’s Thou Shalt Not Kill EP was self-released in 1983. The drummer, Arthur, had played with the Misfits, and John Joseph (Cro-Mags) does back-ups on “The Real Deal”. Antidote got back together in the late 80’s/early 90’s and put out a full-length record.

2 ) Street punk band from Holland.  Formed in 1995 and still together as of 2008.  They have toured with bands such as The Casualties, Strohsäcke, Zero Tolerance, The Virus, Endless Struggle, Dutch ska-punk band Beans, Disturbance, Filaments, The Krays, Behind Enemy Lines, the Adicts and Lower Class Brats.

3) A French Hip-Hop Band

4) A collaborative project band comprising of members of The Ex from Holland and members of the English band Chumbawamba. Using Antidote as their pseudonym for this collaboration a 7" EP was released titled "Destroy Fascism !" in 1986. A later bootleg 7" EP also surfaced comprising of different songs to Destroy Fascism. This 2nd 7 " EP was titled "One Does Not Sell The Earth Upon Which The People Walk"  and was recorded in 1986.  

5) A collaboration between the successful Airwave and Marnik B, the former international manager from Lightning Records. They produce dark, deep, progressive trance. Singles include Velocity, Sciabada, and Paraglider.

6) Finnish thrash/speed/power metal band formed in 1986. Released three albums The Truth (1992), Total (1994) and Mind Alive (1996). Vocalist/guitarist Nino Laurenne and bassist Titus Hjelm are nowadays better known from power metal band Thunderstone.

7) Serbian thrash metal band, also see Anti-Dote.

8) An alternative rock band from Alabama who renamed themselves Hot Rod Circuit

9) A garage rock band from Los Angeles, active between 2004 and 2005. 

10) Drum break-orientated Drum & Bass producer, Deejay, Live Performer and Radio Presenter. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Antidote">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.