While lying seemingly dormant, Sydney-based 5 piece ANTONAMASIA have spent the last 5 years tirelessly writing and developing their craft in anticipation for their return. The melting pot of styles and influences that brought together their 2006 EP ‘Keeping Nothing’ has seen a truly organic evolution with the introduction of new members and new sounds that have only reinforced the passion and power that is ANTONAMASIA.

Founding members CHRIS KING (guitar) and JUSTIN GONZALES (keyboards) welcome CRAIG NYE (ex-As Venice Sinks) to the fold on bass and powerhouse vocalist CLARISSA ROGAN (ex-The Vaine) to the lineup. Combining lifetimes of experience, ANTONAMASIA have captured the inner purity of aggression, exploring the dark corners of a fragile and conflicted world, and translate seamlessly into living, breathing music and delivering a dynamic live performance second to none.

With a focus on musicianship, ANTONAMASIA have set out to create intimate stories that capture and reflect the environments that surround them. With KING’s heavy, progressive style riffing and the band’s punishing rhythms, interlaced with GONZALES’ sweeping orchestrations and subtle, yet stabbing synths and ROGAN’s beautiful, soaring vocals, this effective contrast of beauty and brutality has set ANTONAMASIA apart from their peers and drives the infectious melodies that you won’t soon forget.

In April 2014, ANTONAMASIA released their debut single ‘Coming Apart Together’ to an overwhelming response from fans, old and new. Premiering on BlankTV.com to a record audience of over 6,000 views in less than 5 days, the music video was filmed and produced by acclaimed director Elder of Haus Party whose vision perfectly complimented the band’s concept of a world, after. Lyrically, the track explores the paths that have been followed during the band’s return, and how their journeys, while both unique and similar, have forged a strength unlike any other.

ANTONAMASIA are poised to pick up right from where they left off with the forthcoming release of their debut album ‘Emergence’. Showcasing the band’s distinct versatility and incomparability, ‘Emergence’ was recorded at Main St Studios in Fairy Meadow, NSW with acclaimed metal producer and long-time friend Darren ‘jENK’ Jenkins (Deprivation, Mortal Sin, Shinobi). Jenkins reflects on the album, "Antonamasia’s sound is unlike any I’ve heard in my years of producing. The talent and passion they put into every song is testament to what the future holds for them". Truly a debut in every sense, ‘Emergence’ marks the end of an era and the beginning of a new. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Antonamasia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.