There is more than one artist with this name:
1). ANU is a Tibetan rap group. They were founded in 2016 by Gong Ba and Baya. They are from Nangqian County, northwest China's Qinghai province.

In July 2016, ANU released their first EP ANU, which included two songs, ANU and Living Hometown. On December 27, they released their single, Joke.

On May 20, 2017, they released their second single, Fly.[2]

In 2018, their third single GA·GA and fourth single 1376 were released on February 14 and July 31, respectively.

In September 2019, they participated in China's long-running singing competition Singer 2019.

2). Anu is an American Black Metal band, formed in 1995.

3). Anu is an American musician, composer, and producer.  A classically trained oboe player, he studied music at Dartmouth College under noted composers John Appleton and Christian Wolff.

Based out of Los Angeles in the 90s, Anu fronted post-industrial band Shockwork for several years.  Following its dissolution, he did some film and television scoring and worked with other bands producing and engineering.

In the mid-1990s he began releasing electronic/ambient music under the pseudonym Captain Kirk, joining the Internet music collective Chill Productions.  The Captain Kirk album "The Shape of the Universe" held the #1 position on the experimental charts of the then-new MP3.com for 6 months.

1997 saw the release of "Songs for the Last Man on Earth", a one-man studio project, on the Bastard Science label.

In the late 1990s he joined the short-lived Dan Meyer Project as bass player.  He also played keyboards in Widget, the rock band fronted by Hollywood film composer Tyler Bates.

Anu authored an educational CD-ROM ("Switched-On Sound") discussing the history of 20th century music.

In 2000 he relocated to San Francisco.  He joined electro-clash outfit Luxxury long enough to release a few EPs (notably their breakthrough "Drunk" EP, which he co-produced).
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.