ANUBI IS:
1) Lithuanian avantgarde/black metal band (from early '90s to 2002);
2) Italian rock'n'roll band recently born.

LITHUANIAN ANUBI
Band started playing in summer 1992, when guitarist Skro together with drummer Renofer began playing just at home and recorded more than ten minutes of psychedelic music. In 1993 vocalist Ptah (a.k.a. Lord Ominous; real name Martynas Meskauskas) joined the band and in a full moon of a March sky they recorded their first demo - "Gods Pantheon". The style of their music can be described as mystical (industrial, occult, dark, doom, psycho, egyptian) black metal.

During next two weeks eight new pieces such as "Menulio paslaptis" (The Secret of the Moon), "Kraujo orgija Gize" (Blood Orgy Gize), "Tamsiausi ritualai" (Darkest Rituals) were recorded. ANUBI describes their music as an attempt to "impact the mind of the listener, to create the world which would be even darker than it is now."

The second demo, "Mastabos dvelksmas" ("The Mastaba's Blow"), released in 1994, consisted of dramatic, archaic and gothic styled pieces. It had more mysticism, more power of darkness, and even more dramatism than before. Lyrics of this demo was written by Lord Ominous. Most matured pieces were released later in "Mirties metafora" ("Metaphor Of Death), "Sutemus skambes" ("At Dusk will Chime"), and "Kai pilnaties akis uzmerks mirtis" ("When the death shalt close the eyes of the full-moon").

In September 2001, ANUBI lineup  changed a bit. Skro was replaced by Sadlave (guitars, bass, programming), and Lady Sleep was playing the keyboards. Last album recorded with this lineup was "Sielu Pirklys" ("Merchant Of The Souls") (EP). It consists of four tracks, and should have been released under "Danza Ipnotica" label (Italy). However, it was never released. A contract with another Italian label "Code 666" was signed; however, after the tragic death of Lord Ominous, it was canceled.

Leader of the band Martynas Meskauskas (Lord Ominous) died in March 30, 2002. He never came back after going fishing with his cousin to lake Michigan.
Lord Ominuos was also famous for his paintings and graphics works (found here: http://www.martynasmeskauskas.net/).

ITALIAN ANUBI
Anubi is a two-pieces-band born in March 2006 when F., already a fairly good singer, began to be an ignorant guitarist, and G., already a pretty good guitarist, believed that drumming is not so difficult at all.
So they created this character, named Anubi (a.k.a. the Marshal Dog), and started playing his "rough'n'roll", between powerpop, punk, rock'n'roll and some other things that they really don't know.
Anubi stopped writing tunes in summer; in winter 2006 he began recording his first self-produced ep. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anubi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.