Amidst the tireless and mountainous landscapes of Lebanon, Anuryzm started out in 2003 as a group of college friends trying to branch out of their extreme metal music roots to play more commercially-viable tunes for fun. Towards the end of 2004, Anuryzm had already established a set list of its own rock/metal tunes, played a couple of local festivals, and begun the pre-production process of its first demo. Soon after, the band hit a road bump when founder and lead guitarist John decided to move overseas, but he remained enthusiastic about the band at home. Until one day in November ’05, John received a call from bassist Sami informing him of the passing of rhythm guitarist Berni due to complications with his illness. The news hit the guys really hard and Anuryzm went into a standstill. The next two years remained uneventful whilst John continued to write new material and revamp the older tunes.


In 2007, John moved to Canada and decided to revive Anuryzm with the improved repertoire. Almost 100 auditions later, the band re-formed, began practicing, and building a studio. Up until the end of '09, Anuryzm had already played several shows across Toronto, and made great progress at finalizing the album, only to hit another road bump with John needing to move back to his childhood city of Abu Dhabi, in U.A.E.. On the way, he made a quick pit stop home in Lebanon to attempt to re-record the album with Ordum drummer Riad Hajjar at his home studio. But, due to complications and unforeseen events, the project hit a dead-end. It seemed like all hope was gone, until John and Martin Lopez (Soen, ex-Opeth) got in touch and agreed to work together on Anuryzm's debut album. 


By Spring 2010, John was back in the U.A.E. searching for new band members, while Martin was preparing to record the drums for the album in Sweden. John immediately joined forces with his old high-school band mate, rock vocalist Nadeem; and as they sought out the remaining band members (Imad, Milton, Rami, and Jay), they began prepping up to record their parts for the album. By summer '11, Anuryzm's debut album 'Worm's Eye View' was now complete, and with the band gearing up for big performances this winter, it promises to deliver a dose of high quality, seasoned progressive metal music.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anuryzm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.