The project, born at the beginning of 2008, is a product of the collaboration between .:I.S.K:. (Alex), from Portugal and .:V.P.G:. (Valentina), from Italy.

The band started in January 2008, and featured a song ("Neurological Chronic Condition") in Italian Body Music compilation just a few months after its birth, and some months later, featured "Emergency SEX" on Extreme Women in the Dark Future compilation. In the latter part of 2008, the band participated in a song from C-Lekktor's critically aclaimed The Silence Procession CD ("Empty Sou"l).
The live debut came on 11th December 2008, at the Dark Day in Milan, alongside heavywheights Nurzery [Rhymes], Dernière Volontée and Adam Kult. In April 2009 the band played for the first time abroad, in Switzerland with a solo concert and France, at the sides of Arsch Dolls and Tamtrum until arrive to the big festival in Paris on 11 July 2009 with names like Suicide Commando, Agonoize and Diary of Dreams.. Anxiety Disorder have, in just 1 year of existence, gathered a decent amount of exposure and are ready to explode into today's electro industrial scene.
ISK (music and vocals)
Most recently responsible for creating harsh industrial / dark electro bands, aktivehate, Lokomotiv, VexXxeR and PsychotekTrauma, Alex has been involved in music for over 9 years, treading numerous styles, from industrial to metal, ambient and many more. He also ocasionally works as a DJ (spinning mostly harsh /dark electro, industrial, power noise and/or metal DJ sets) and as a sound tech for some portuguese metal bands and events.
VPG (lyrics and vocals)
Valentina has been involved in the management world in the past. She helped bands finding contacts for gigs, performances and interviews and scouted bands for Italian managements and venues. She especially worked with the German market and for a period with London. She's an official member and voice of Distortion Sekt broadcasting, collaborating with Otto Rios, Racso Agroyam (of Hocico and Dulce Liquido)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Anxiety+Disorder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.