Apashe is a 29 year old electronic music producer from Brussels who’s now established as a professional sound designer in Montreal. He started making breakcore in 2008 before moving onto dubstep, neurofunk, electro and trap. He was the first artist signed to Kannibalen Records in 2011, and in a few years he’s become one of the most exciting and creative acts in the bass music world. He’s known for his rich, detailed sound and his unique live shows in which he recreates his tracks alongside a full arsenal of unreleased edits.

In January 2012, his ‘Contamination’ EP established Apashe as a serious up & comer in the bass world. Since then, EPs, free downloads and collaborations have garnered support and playtime from an eclectic list of DJs such as Major Lazer, Afrojack, Excision, Flosstradamus & Koan Sound. His trap influenced collaboration ‘Bubble Gun’ with Snails earned him major play time on the BBC airwaves and became the ultimate secret weapon for trap DJs worldwide in late 2012.

2013 was a banner year for the young Belgian. His free release ‘Battle Royale’ was a production tour de force that showcased his signature sound design and his skillful use of epic orchestral samples. He followed this up with a monster trap EP called “Black Mythology”, featuring “Black Gold” and “Forsaken” which both rose to the top of the Beatport Hip Hop and Dubstep charts.

Apashe has shown no signs of slowing down in 2014. He kicked the year off with “No Twerk”, another huge trap hit with vocals by Odalisk and Panther, then released his first remix EP which included a massive VIP version of “Battle Royale”. Apashe also made inroads into the European market, playing to packed audiences in Paris and Brussels. 

In April of 2020, he released a full length LP entitled 'Renaissance', and released a follow up remix LP in February of 2021. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apashe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.