Apathy Arising is: Liam "El Smasho" Malone (Drums), Ryan"Six String Sodomizer" Butt (Guitar), Jon "Brown note" Denaker (Bass), Jeff  "ThroaTerror" Bonesteel (Vocals), Nick "Nuts-Sack" Borden (Guitar) 

Brought together through a bizarre combination of Strippers, Key Lime Pie, A cross country voyage, Vermonters in love, myspace and one black metal karaoke rendition of Christina Aguilera’s “Genie In a Bottle” Apathy Arising have been bringing their unique blend of metal to the capital region since October 2006. Leaving a path of brutality and carnage in their wake ever since. With a sound hard to pin down or describe Apathy Arising is one of the only bands in the area to provide a unique fusion of all styles of metal. Influenced by hardcore, thrash, speed metal, death metal, black metal, punk rock, hard rock, and the occasional outlaw country song Apathy Arising continue in their pursuit of making extreme metal. They are dedicated to making music faster, better, harder and above all more evil than anything else wherever they go. 

Originally formed in Orlando Florida by founding members Drummer, LIAM! “Violent Smasher of Drumsickles” Malone and Guitarist Jamie "Dr. Phillip D. Spooningsworth" Taylor Apathy Arising have been playing together in various incarnations and under various names since early 2005. Many a singer, bass player, and even keyboardist came and went before the boys found themselves in the Capital Region of New York. It was there that they found their future front man Chad “The Viking” Oakland. Hailing from New Mexico Chad was notorious around these parts for his hulking presence at the Famed Hudson Duster and working the door at many a local concert venue. Known to be big, mean, intimidating, brutal, offensive, scary and an all around surly dude he was the perfect man to speak the collective metal minds of Apathy Arising. 

With a front man, a place to practice, and some brand spanking new equipment Liam, Jamie and Chad continued to write and play without the presence of a bassist. Through the magical world of myspace they were united with Rick "Thick string harbinger of the apocalypse" Benoit. It became readily apparent the Rick was the only man for the job. Able to withstand various forms of abuse, pay part of the rent, and totally gel with the bands overall sound, Rick completed the total AA package. 

In late 2007 they added the formitable talents of BUTT, known for his insane, brutal guitar shredding with their friends in Belligerence. Butt has added a thick evil-laced guitar-like brutality to the AA ensemble and filled in the bass player spot for a time after Rick's departure from the band in late 2007. The band added the talents of young Nate to their ranks as their new bass player in early 2008 but unfortunately was replaced by Jonny "The Wop". Jonny however dropped off the face of the earth leaving the band once again bass-less. It was also around this time that co-founder Jamie Taylor had to leave the band due to family commitments. After almost 3 years of non-stop metallic ferocity jamie will be sorely missed but his influence and die hard determination fuel the band to this day. 

February 2009 saw the return of Rick the "6 string Harbinger of the Apocalypse" Benoit return to the AA fold to play guitar and Jon Denaker from our mighty brothers in Belligerence joining on bass. Shortly thereafter Rick once again bowed out to focus on family comitments leaving the AA package one guitar short, they are still in search of a suitable replacement.

September 2009 marked the end of Chad's reign of terror with the band and the addition of the 3rd Belligerence member to strengthen the AA ranks, Mr. Jeff "Throat Violator" Bonesteel. About an hour after Chad's departure with a simple "sure, I'm game". Who says theres no solidarity and support in our scene? 

Early 2010 came the return to the AA 5 peice with the addition of Nick Borden on guitar. During the summer of 2008 the band started recording their first full length cd with Darian from the legendary NYHC band MERAUDER! With all instuments recorded and in the can expect the finished product in 2010 after Jeff has had time to attune himself to the AA sound and put his voice to harddrive! Currently you can get a taste of the metal with the "Neat Fucking Demo" for 1$!

With years of practice under their belt Apathy Arising take their sound to the streets. Known for playing anywhere, anytime, and bringing homemade pie with them, AA have solidified a strong following in the capital region and beyond and are ready to continue their metal assault on the land.

Bio courtesy of Lydia Malone <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apathy+Arising">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.