Aphonic Threnody is an international project and extreme doom collective. Founded by Riccardo (Gallow God & Dea Marica) and Roberto (URNA & Dea Marica amongst the others) around the end of 2012 in London, the project has soon afterwards seen the participation of Kostas (Pantheist, Wijlen Wij and many more), Abel (Leecher) and Marco (URNA, Arcana Coelestia and more). While the core of the band has been enstabileshed in London - UK, Abel cooperate to the project from Hungary and Marco from Italy. Hence the label of international band. The union and will of all the musicians involved blossomed during the first months of 2013 with a first opus titled "First Funeral". The EP received good feedbacks worldwide catching the attentions of two infamous European doom metal underground label such as Avantgarde Music (Thergothon should ring the bell!) and Elektroplasma/TerrorFromHellRecords (Abysmal Grief anyone?). While TFH released the album on 12"LP vinyl in June 2013, Avantgarde Music released it on CD version in September 2013 including a bonus cover track of the My Dying Bride classic "Symphonaire Infernus Et Spera Empyrium". Being the result of the multifarious influences of each member of the band, this first album sets the milestone for what Aphonic Threnody are goin to record during the following year. During the Summer of 2013 the band starts the recordings of the following full-lenght album "When Death Comes". The new album is goin to see Greg Chandler (ESOTERIC) and Josh Moran (VACANT EYES) as guests. Also David Unsaved (ENNUI) is goin to partecipate to the recordings taking the place of the previous guest Mike Meacham (LOSS). At the same time three new tracks are recorded to be used in two different split albums and later on, Jarno Salomaa (SHAPE OF DESPAIR), records some guitars and ebow' parts for one of them. On November 2013 the band debuts live opening the ESOTERIC's London show, organised by Funeral Of Mankind Promotion, and sharing the stage with FEN and Wodensthrone. For the occasion Ilia from the doom/death metal beasts INDESINENCE/BINAH helps AT as guitar player. In the end of 2013 the band contacted by GS Productions finds a deal to release during the first months of 2014 "Immortal In Death" (split with the Georgian funeral doom mayhem ENNUI out on March 2014) and "Of Graves, Of Worms And Epitaphs" (split with the German funeral doom one-man-band FROWNING out on April 2014). Both of the split albums are goin to be relesed in a superb limited DGPack version. The two releases receive good feedbacks careless of the small amount of copies available. On January 2014 the recordings, mixing and mastering process of the new full lenght album are finally completed and secret deals are taken to release it on vinyl and CD around the end of Summer 2014. On February 2014 Zack from TOMORROWILLBEWORSE joins the collective during the first composition stages of the new material which is goin to be released in 2015. In April 2014 the label Spectralight Recordings offers to re-print "First Funeral" on tape format and the release date is goin to be between May and June 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aphonic+Threnody">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.