Apneuma is a uruguayan death metal band with Progressive/Groove/Melodic/Thrash influences, currently competing at the Uruguay Wacken Metal Battle 

Line up:
Gerardo Techera - Bass/vocals
Bruno Liguori - Guitar
Willy Barros - Drums
Santiago Castro - Guitar


Formed in 2006 by Gerardo Techera, the band first developed a well marked influence of thrash and old school death metal. Their first live performance was on September 2007, being the line up:
Gerardo Techera(vocals/lead guitar), Willy Barros(drums), Carlos Subelzu(guitar)(ex Siria) and Fernando Barreto(bass)

In December 2007 Fernando left the band and Leo Rodriguez(Rudos Wilds, Nueva Sangre) joined the band

May 2008-Leo left the band and Carlos took his place as the bass player. Bruno Liguori joined the band as the new lead guitarrist.


With this line up , in August 2008 the band recorded their first demo called "Through nightmare landscapes" which contains 3 songs,all originals by Apneuma. 
The band is currently on a stand by, composing what will be their next release.

2009- Carlos Subelzu left the band, Alfonso Vellozo (ex Morbo) is the new bass player.
The band is preparing what will be their return to the stages at the end of 2009. 
A few gigs later, troubles once again made Apneuma go back to a stand by

2010- A new year, lots of changes, but Apneuma is still alive, Juan Manuel Llanos and Santiago Castro joined the band and now we are creating new songs to add to the old revitalized material.

2011- Finally Rise Above Mere Mortals came to light, with 5 songs and great success the first Apneuma ep was release on the month of April. 
Once again, the band suffered changes.

2012- A new line up, a new start, Pablo Baladan and Nicolas Barrios joined the band. A few months later Bruno Liguori returns to the band.

2013- The changes in the line up seem to never end!  This time two other old members rejoined the band: Santiago Castro and Willy Barros on guitars and drums respectively.

2014- Recording sessions of "New World Dissolution" our first full lenght

2015
April- "New World Dissolution" is released via Valvular Records
May- First Official Videoclip of the song "New World Dissolution" produced by Tacate Prod.
May- The band reach the finals of the "Metal Battle for Wacken Uruguay" ending up in second place just a point behind the winners <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apneuma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.