There is more than one artist with this name:

1. Death/thrash metal from France

Bandcamp

2. The story of Apocryph began on a hot Belgian summer day, August 2004. Nico (guitar) and Gijs (guitar), who both play in the Ghent-based death-grind formation Serial Butcher, decided to form a melodic death metal band. With the aid of a drumcomputer, the duo starts rehearsing. Koen (bass), also in Serial Butcher, is very enthusiastic when he hears the very first Apocryph songs. He decides to join in on the melodic death metal fun. Some more songs are being rehearsed, and the trio starts an intensive search for a drummer and a singer.
The next few months, several candidates pass by, but none seem to really fit in and make the Apocryph puzzle complete. March 2005, the Apocryphians bump on to drummer Youri (also playing in brutal death metal sensation Leptotrichia). They decide to join forces.

May 2005, the quartet decided to enter the CCR studio to record a song for the third Deathmetal.be compilation CD. The vocals on this one are done by Dimitri 'El Grunto' Janssens, currently in Fungus Inc. The result sounds very promising: melodic, yet brutal; aggressive, yet catchy. At the end of the hot summer of 2005, some great vocalists appear, but it's Jo (also in Mothra) who fills in the empty space behind the microphone. Although a new member arrived, another member left. Youri has quit his drumming duties in Apocryph due to a lack of motivation. They struggled until the next warm summer without a drummer. Some appear but none were capable to fill in the role of fellow apocryphian... Until july 2006, cause there was some groovy news this time: Apocryph welcomes drum-wizard Gert Monden (In Quest) to their ranks.
Apocryph successfully started playing gigs in 2007 and there were plans for a mini-CD on Rotten To The Core, a small Belgian label. The release was scheduled for summer 2007, and a song from our debut CD would also appear on the 5th Deathmetal.be sampler. Now, mid September 2007, Apocryph's debut "Drenched In Grace" is ready to be unleashed - be sure to check on this paragon of energetic, powerful melodic deathmetal!

Source: Official Apocryph website: http://apocryph.deathmetal.be/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apocryph">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.