Apocalyptic Fire is an atmospheric black metal band from Germany.


Apocalyptic Fire was founded in September 2006. Ineluki wrote a few riffs which soon developed into complete song structures. As these songs did not really fit into the concept of Ineluki´s other band “Northern Frost” and to prevent them from fading from memory Ineluki decided to bring “Apocalyptic Fire” into being.

 Primarily the band was destined to be a solo project, but Ineluki soon realized that a drum computer could never create the same feeling as a live drummer.

In Tyr, Ineluki was able to retrieve an appropriate percussionist, who already had gained considerable experience in the ranks of the german band “Thurisaz”. Tyr joined Apocalyptic Fire as a permanent member.

Musically Apocalyptic Fire aims to create cold and atmospheric black metal with both a modern and primordial touch. Lyrically the texts deal with apocalyptic themes, death, dreams, hate, negative emotions, occultism and the aversion towards christianity.

In September 2007 the band entered the Forte Fortissimo Studio in Coburg (Bavaria / Germany) to record the album “Abyss”. It was an easy decision to enter Forte Fortissimo once again, as Northern Frost have also recorded their series of releases there and the results were more than satisfying.

When the recording series were complete, Ineluki went searching for a suitable label. As there was only a small amount of response to Ineluki`s inquiries, he decided to release the album as a tape version through his own label “Apocalyptic Art” for the time being. The tape was released April 2008.

After several weeks Ineluki came in contact with Taaken of “Black Devastation Records” and he agreed to release “Abyss” as a ProCD-R version which then was releasd in September 2008.

 
Despite their professional attitude towards sound quality and the overall quality of their releases, Apocalyptic Fire will always be deeply rooted in the underground of black metal.

 Plans at the moment are, to record a MCD in the spring of 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apocalyptic+Fire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.