Many bands with this name. 

1. A german beat/psychedelic rock band which existed from 1966 to 1969, also known as "Die anderen". They released two albums, "Kannibal Komix" in 1968 and "Apocalypse" in 1969. With the "Apocalypse" album the band developed and refined their music toward psychedelic rock without denying the psych pop roots found on "Kannibal Komix". The tracks became longer, the instrumentation many sided (great sitar in "Let die"). Intelligent compositions with great vocals make this underrated band a true must.

2. The legendary brazilian progressive rock band wich which released eight albums and one DVD. They recorded two live albuns - Apocalypse Live in USA (1999) (double CD with interactive track) and Apocalypse Live in Rio (2007) (DVD/CD format). The corrent line-up is: Gustavo Demarchi - Voices and Flutes; Chico Fasoli - Drums; Magoo Wise - Bass; Ruy Fritsch - Guitars; Eloy Fritsch - Keyboards.

The progressive rock band Apocalypse was born in 1983, in Caxias do Sul, Southern Brazil, founded by Eloy Fritsch and some school friends at the Colégio Nossa Senhora do Carmo who got together for a student music contest. After this first concert, guitar player Ruy Fritsch and drummer Chico Fasoli joined their ranks, playing with the band at the Festival 1º Ópera Rock. From the beginning, they presented a very different style, compared to the other local groups. They made use of organ, synthesizers, classical vocals and created songs influenced by Uriah Heep, Yes, Pink Floyd, Led Zepellin, Rush and Genesis

3. The legendary Swiss thrash band, which released two albums in 1988 and 1993. 
Apocalypse formed in 1984 in Genf, Switzerland and disbanded around the year 1993. The band  consisted of singer Roberto Pierdona, guitarists Julien Brocher and Pierre-Alain "Zurich" Zurcher, bassist Jean-Claude Schneider and drummer Andre "Momos" Domenjoz. In the early 1990s they toured Switzerland with Metallica.

4. A rapper who often collaborates with Brooklyn artist Masta Ace.

5. A New Wave of British Heavy Metal band, which released a demo and a single, in 1981 and '82, respectively.

6. A doom metal/crust band from Southern California during the early '90s.
    http://www.myspace.com/apocalypse13

7. A Mod band from London active 1982-83

8. A Power Metal band from Serbia/Bosnia

9. An Israeli psychedelic rock band <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apocalypse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.