1) APOLLYON was conceived during 1992 by Archdemon Diabolos (a.k.a. M. Bisgaard) and Lord Worros. This pairing conjoured up the opening demo 'Creators Of Evil Thoughts', issued in January 1993. A further two song demo surfaced that May but by the following year, with the defection of Lord Worros, the first incarnation of APOLLYON was laid to rest.

The band name was resurrected in 1994 by Archdemon Diabolos and new recruit Sorgh of BRANDPEST on guitar, later adding Korihor on bass. This trio laid down the 1995 demo 'Troldeskovens Aander'. Upon completion of recording Azter of DENIAL OF GOD usurped Korihor and that August APOLLYON undertook their inaugural live performance in this incarnation. Having just two gigs to their name the band lost the services of Azter but did pull in Vrykolatios of BRANDPEST on lead vocals. APOLLYON's next move was to contribute the track 'Omnia In Majorem Diaboli Gloriam' to the compilation album 'A Tribute To Hell', this aiding the securing of a contract with Full Moon Productions.

The EP 'Diaboli Gratia' (Full Moon Productions) surfaced in July 1998, featuring guest performances from singer Lise Christiansen and keyboard player Henrik Jansberg. Archdemon Diabolos and Vrykolatios would also conduct the side project MALA FIDE that same year. APOLLYON were set to make a return in 2003, announcing a 7" single 'The Morningstar Installment' to be issued through Ancient Darkness Productions. 

2) An independant electronic artist by the name of Roy Nash, who also makes music under the Cirix moniker. This artist releases dark electronic ambient and experimental music. He has done so on small independant labels such as Wide Area Network Records.

3) Apollyon is an extreme metal band from Kelowna, BC, Canada formed in November 2014.
Their debut EP, "I Am the King Now", was released March 11, 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apollyon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.