There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Apollo was formed in 1969. They released one album, Apollo (1970). Their music was occasionally heavy and the band sounds like Led Zeppelin or Procol Harum, with little bit King Crimson in it. Members have been in other Finnish progressive projects.

2) Apollo is a post-hardcore/experimental band on hiatus  from North Bend, Oregon, United States. Beginning in early 2010, Apollo has gain recognition for becoming one of the rising artists in Oregon. Starting in the small town of North Bend, Apollo now wants to further their reach on the West Coast. Their inspiration derived mainly from the early post-hardcore music and mixed with their early roots of jazz, has gained a reputation of being “an original sound”.  
Members: Sam Duell (Guitar & Vocals), Tyler Mansfield (Vocals), Anthony Hatzel (Drums & Vocals), Justin Sweet (Guitar), and Luke Sanchez/Scott Mecum (Bass).

Their full-length album 'We Must Be Feeling The Full Moon' was released in 2013, featured 11 songs and a much more unorthodox approach to writing, making it Apollo's first real full length album. Before this they released a self-titled EP in early 2011 and another EP in late 2011 called 'Lighthouse'.

3) Apollo was fronted as one of the young and hopeful Norwegian hip-hop artists when he released his debut album. This was when Norwegian rap was relatively new (at least successfully) and many believed his flow would make Apollo the most successful in time. Unfortunately he waited many years before releasing his second album and never quite reached the top. His albums are considered good ones, though he didn't make the hall of fame. He's maybe biggest hit was the sample of Janicke "J-Diva"'s "Svake Mennesker".

4) Apollo is an alias of Megara vs. DJ Lee.

5) Apollo is a new Danish rock act from Copenhagen rising up from the underground. The band has just returned from Varispeed Studios in Sweden where they recorded the first half of their coming debut album. The second half will be recorded in April, and the album is due out in September '09. But in the meantime there is a limited edition EP - "Songs From the Night and Songs For Tonight" - that has been out since February '09.

5) Apollo is an alias of Luke Knight (We Were Ravens, Methuselah).  Apollo releases tend to center around the construction of deep, spacious, and hypnotic drones and soundscapes.

6) Apollo Indie Dance / Post Punk band from Ballarat, Australia. They Began mid 2009 when two kids decided to constructively channel their boredom in the form of melodic sound. After a short period of time another two gentlemen were thrown in the mix, unearthing a distinct sound from which Apollo were born. Remaining hidden for the best part of their first year as a band, the Apollo team steadily brewed a unique mix of dance, post-punk & pop, as well as shooting the odd hoop or two. 2010 saw Apollo finally break out onto the local scene, turning a few heads with some demo tracks and a high energy live show. Now with some experience under their belt and some ambition in their heads Apollo have a long and winding path in front of them. Apollo were added to the Grovin the Moo festival line up in 2010, Bendigo leg and shared the stage with acts such as Silverchair, Tegan and Sara, Grinspoon, Spoon, Howl and many more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apollo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.