Apoptose is a one-man ambient project from Germany. His project has released a handful of full-length albums and has appeared on numerous compilations.

The first album, NORDLAND, was released May 2000 in an edition of 1000 embossed 6-panel digipaks. In 2001 there was a second edition of 1000 copies with small color-changes on the digipak and the CD labelprint. The music is influenced by the cold, barren, dark landscapes of northern countries and the "human consciousness that is not easily accessible, the dark-side of our mind that you find below the surface." The music created "is an exploration of his personal 'Nordland' and may be a device for the listener to find access to their own inner world."

The second album, BLUTOPFER (German for 'blood sacrifice'), was released May, 2002 in an edition of 1000 embossed 6-panel digipaks on Tesco Organisation/Germany. This album has much more drumming and is much less tranquil than the previous release. Much of the drumming was recorded in 1998 at the Semana Santa festival held in Calanda, Spain each year. The festival generally has over 3000 participants, which all crowd in the streets of Calanda. This explains why you can hear voices in a few songs on the album. The drumming is embedded into dark soundscapes which, at times, creates a very haunting atmosphere.

Latest release: SCHATTENMÄDCHEN, released in 2007 by Tesco Organisation. Apoptose's third album explores dystopian locations: the undergrounds of Japanese megacities, the depths of worldwide data highways, the nightmares of little children. The seven tracks express images of a desolate and dying world, far removed from the solitude of the beloved Northern woods. A world lacking daylight and oxygen. A bleak vision of reality. Over the years, several of these tracks made their way to compilation CDs all over the globe. There they laid dormant to be reunited some day to form this album. The CD is housed in an embossed 6-panel cardboard cover with an additional booklet. 7 tracks, 62 min. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apoptose">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.