there at least two bands called Aporia

1) Polish emo-core band

Aporia was formed in 2004 on a base of band of Akcyza, in which started most of current crew. After almost one year, Hans (bass) left the band. Autum 2005 was very unsteady time. Everything gone fine with apparence of Mrówa. In june 2008, due to cooperation with friend from band of Dobry Dzień, split of both bands had been released.

Current crew:
Drozda - perc.
Laska - voc, git
Mrówa - bass
Bart - git, voc

2) US American rock band

Aporia - Official Band Bio 

What is/who are Aporia? Well, they’re a band of course and they play music; write their own songs, haul their own stuff, book their own gigs--all that jazz. Their sound has been described as anything from the wildly imaginative “acid folk-country” to the more appropriate “soulful acoustic rock.” They love to play, create and perform. 

They’ve just released their first studio album, “Bare Bones,” which was recorded at the Big Rick Studios in Rosholt, Wisconsin and engineered by Dave Kruger (with re-mastering help from the Rev. Eddie Danger). It has 10 original songs, ranging in style from folk to reggae to rock and something in between.

Lead vocals and drums are provided by Emily Mills and acoustic guitar and vocals come from Justin Woodward. Morey Burnard rounds out the sound on bass guitar. They all live in Madison, Wisconsin. 

Their live shows brim with energy, humor and passion, captivating audiences all over the city at venues like the High Noon Saloon, the King Club, Café Montmarte, Bru’s Anchor Inn and Luther’s Blues. They’re equally comfortable playing energetic, plugged-in shows and stripped down, fully acoustic sets.. 

On any given night, they can be found performing with fellow acoustic or folk rockers, as well as electronic, rock, and rap musicians. Diversity is inspirational. They strive to do as many benefit concerts as possible, believing strongly in the role of art and artist as activist. Aporia has played for benefits for such organizations as the Million Worker March, Take Back the Night, Women’s Transit Authority and Wis-Kino. 

As of right now, Aporia is gearing up to tour extensively in the Madison area (and hopefully outside of it as well) in support of the new album. Look ‘em up or book ’em--they’re friendly.

http://aporia.agog.net/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aporia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.