Apostles of Perversion was born at 2.002 in Madrid (Spain). The first line up was: Héctor Sena (ex-Exorce), Guillemoth (Wormed, Human Mincer) y Kuba (Bloodoline). After, Hector move to Gran Canaria (Canary Islands, Spain) and he's continue with the band here. In the island he's contact with members of another band in Vecindario's town, emerging collaboration of Alejandro

Rodriguez at bass to gives form to the proyect.

After looking some contacts, Jesús Ojeda (ex–Witches' Sabbath) joins to the band like drummer. He offering a velocity and technique required in the band.
Well starts the first practices in Gran Canaria and it clear that the way forward was Brutal death metal.
After some members on try joins in summer of 2.004 Fernando at guitar, he gives new ideas to add more complexity in the band.
The band still relies with collaboration of Guillermoth to vocal works...

In 2.005 the band make a change, now, Fernando is the temporal vocalist and join a new guitarrist calles Pedro Del Rosario. At middle of 2.006 the band starts to recording the first demo called "Intracranial Hypertension". During the recording Fernando and Jesús leaves the band but join 2 new members to complete the band. Well, Daniel Martinez (ex- Ossuary) is the new vocalist and Mike the new drummer.

At this moment the band release the first demo, Intracranial Hypertension.

At middle of 2.008 Mike (drums), Pedro Del Rosario (guitar) and Alejandro Rodríguez (bass) decided to leave the band. Thie year the band is off during long time but Hector Sena (guitars) can't stop to find new members to go ahead.

In 2.009 the band restart with Jonathan Reina at drums and Victor Montesdeoca at bass, the band starts practices again descarding a second guitar at the moment.

At the end of 2.010 after some shows with this line up the band decides to record a new Ep of five songs. During this recording Victor Montesdeoca and Daniel Martinez decides to leave the band for personal reasons. . Hector and Jonathan choose to continue recording. At the beginig of 2011 the record is done and the band sign with Pathologically Explicit Recordings to release their debut MCD, later, 2 new members join the band: Saúl Morales (bass) and Miguel Núñez (vocals). The band is currently working with the new
members to submit the new record live....Stay tuned! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apostles+of+Perversion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.