There are five bands using this name:

1) A symphonic black metal one-man band from Malta. Sauron composes all of the music for Apotheosis. Although the band was formed in  autumn of 1993, it wasn't until 2002 that Sauron released a full-length album, the four-track epic Farthest from the Sun. Other releases include the demo recordings Shadows Eve and Promo '97 and the Bathory cover "Total Destruction". Sauron has said he's still working on material for the project, but it's unknown when he'll release further material.

2) A two piece doom metal band from Toledo, Ohio. Their first album, 'Husk', was self-released in 2011 and they are currently (9/12) completing their second release, 'Bane'. 

3) A death doom metal band from Germany who made two albums: "A Shroud of Belief" and "Black and Blue Reality". Disbanded in 1998.

4) Apotheosis is the alias of two producers from Belgium, Luc Rigaux and Patrick Samoy, who were influential on the early techno and electronic scene. They're largely known for the early 90s club hit, O Fortuna, which samples the "O Fortuna" movement of composer Carl Orff's famous Carmina Burana. Their version was soon outlawed, as Orff's estate did not approve of the use of his music in this fashion. The record is now highly sought after by collectors.

5) The name of the all male a cappella group at Texas A&M University. The group began in 1997, and in its history has released 2 full length albums: "5 Seconds to Spare" and "A Little More Runway." More information can be found on the website: http://apotheosis.tamu.edu.

6) A melodic death metal band from Skopje, Macedonia. The band was founded in 2010 without any specific genre under the name Еxecutor. As the time goes on they choose to follow the melodic death metal path inspired by Swedish metal scene and bands like Dark Tranquility, Insomnium and In Flames.
In 2013, they changed the name Apotheosis. From their foundation until now Apotheosis have played together with many international and European band like Prion (Argentina), Ashen Epitaph (Serbia), as well they shared the scene with many successful Macedonian bands Last Act of Defiance, Formless Terror and Ambroz.
Facebook, YouTube <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apotheosis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.