There are several music projects using this name.

#1) apparatus is the solo Ambient / Down-tempo / Electronica project of Will Williams (or alias "alpha rainbow"), the ex-guitarist of nintendocore band iamerror (now Monomate). He has released 4 EP's and 3 singles on bandcamp and is currently writing a full length. apparatus and Monomate are also working on a side project called Airflow: 

#2) DJ Jerry Ayers from Mason City, Iowa:
While major cities of the east and west coast are looked to for the latest trends in electronic dance music, there is formidable action bubbling in the vicinity of the Midwest. This is where longstanding DJ and producer Apparatus resides and from where he has been steadily and reliably creating entrancing sounds. Drawing as much from futuristic elements of progressive house, tech house, and electro music as from traditional music sources, Apparatus’ approach has the accessible sensibility to appeal to a wide range of listeners at the same time keeping its dance floor roots.

#3) Apparatus, also known as Apparatus N.C., was an industrial rock band from North Carolina in the early 90's, releasing one self-titled EP on the Re-Constriction record label before disbanding. Leaving behind vocalist Blake Barnes, Syd and D. York went on to form Liquid Sex Decay.

#4) This band is not to be confused with the French house artist Apparatus, who released an album, "Tubercul House", 
#5) or the unrelated garage industrial-rock band Apparatus, who released an EP entitled "Theatrics Of Power".

#6) Apparatus is also a hiphop band from Bergen, Norway, consisting of rappers Essence and Twice and producer UnQ. The band has been a part of the Bergen underground scene since 1999.

#7) Apparatus is also an alternative metal band from Sudbury, On, Canada.

None of these is the band The Apparatus, who released "Heathen Agenda" and isn't one of the various Apparatuses.

#8) Apparatus is an experimental/blackened death metal band from Denmark.
They released a self titled full length in 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Apparatus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.