“…undoubtedly the freshest and most intense band to step on stage in the new era of death metal”
 
Established in 2008, after the most talented musicians from the most successful local bands came together, Applaud the Impaler immediately became the juggernaut of the Virginia music scene. Amongst the weak and cliché bands plaguing the music scene, Applaud the Impaler easily embarked on their mission and saw to their spawning of becoming the leaders in technicality, heaviness, and ferociousness. In 2009 after the departures and weeding out of certain members, Applaud the Impaler came to its’ perfect chemistry. With inspirations such as Origin, Beneath the Massacre, Behemoth, and Nile, the new group of intimidating men deliver a powerful and vehement sound incorporated with annihilating grooves and ample heavy parts. Now with a revamped lineup and a credible passion that each member bears, the path is being paved for Applaud the Impaler to complete domination.

 The band thrives on the intensity and violence that their fans bring to the shows. Ever since Applaud the Impaler set foot on stage in 2008, they have demanded a sense of maniacal energy from their fans and have forcefully and easily derived this urgency with their aggressive yet entertaining, implacable performance. Applaud the Impaler continues to capture the predilection and respect of all genres of heavy music and draw in a wide variety of fans making the band one of the most reputable bands on the rise.
 
In 2010, Applaud the Impaler signed to heavy metal label Unique Leader Records and became an explosive weapon on the ULR arsenal. With the upcoming release of the first EP, Anthropophagi, set to hit stores November 23, 2010, Applaud the Impaler continues to draw in a wide fan base and a forthright reputation of being aggressive and “killer but generous dudes.” The band lives and dies by the support of their fans and greatly apprecia
 tes every ounce of support given to them. Check out their websites for more details on tour info and crucial updates. PARTY ON! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Applaud+The+Impaler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.