Initially formed in September 2004 by Jérôme Boucher(guitar) and Kevin Pettinella(vocal) from the ashes of their previous band Psychotic Vision, Approached by a God became official when Maxime Huard(guitar) was asked to join the band, a few months later. Armed with drummer Mario Forgues and bass player Nicolas Chabot, they managed to pull off a first show in Québec City, in April 2005.

Following this first acclaim, the band decided to tour a reasonable part of the province of Québec during the rest of the year, encountering a few line-up problems. Drummer Mario Forgues was replaced by Simon Frost, who was then dismissed a year later. And when the band thought it could not go worst, bass player Nicolas Chabot decided to leave the band.

Approached by a God was left to Jérôme and Maxime, Kevin Pettinella was nowhere near to be found. The two remaining members focused their energy into recording a demo, hoping that it would inspire anyone to join the band. Reinforced by session drummer and co-producer François Fortin of Utlagr, Approached by a God entered the studio from September to October 2006, in order to insure the future of the band. A week later, Kevin is back with the band recording vocal tracks. All done, they finally joined up with drummer Louis Thivierge and long time friend bass player Mathieu Robichaud, who once was a part of Approached by a God in it's early incarnation.

In May 2007, Jerome and the band parted ways for personal reasons. Followed an extensive search for a new guitar player. The logical choice was Benoit Fecteau, a solid guitar player, formerly of The First Fire. Following many shows in 2007 and 2008, Maxime Huard was dismissed in early 2008.

Approached by a God made it to the second round of the 2nd Skin Rock Contest 2008 at the Imperial. One of our songs was included on the first 2nd Skin Rock Contest compilation.

Approached by a God's first full length album, Diseased and Burned to Rest, was an entire DIY achievement. In fact, it was entirely recorded by the band's guitar player, Benoit Fecteau. The whole layout of the album was also done by Benoit. The band toured a resonable part of the province following the album's release and is now writing brand new songs for a follow up!


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Approached+By+A+God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.