AQUAMORTA was founded in August of 1997 in Minsk on the great Minsk formation DEVIL'S EMPIRE's shatters, that unfortunately had very distant treatment with music. Perhaps exactly that determined few DEVIL'S EMPIRE's musicians to found their own band. They were Astron (guitar) and Jermak (bass).

There was the first main question at the beginning of their cooperative work: to complete the band with vocalist,drummer and second guitarist. After some failed attempts vocal problem was fixed by simplest way: Jermak started to sing himself, still playing bass. The guitar problem was fixed rather before - Vadim Kaltigin has joined the band. A former WOLAND member Sergey Timoshik from Brest was invited as drummer. In this cast the band has appeared at the Youth Music Festival in spring of 1998.

The first AQUAMORTA record was realised at the same time. VICIOUS CRUSADE's Alexey Gladysh was playing drums there.

From the very beginning band's style based on classic thrash metal with the influence of another styles - from power to death metal. At first the band was playing English-lyrics songs. But finally guys decided that English isn't enough adequate to the sense of their music. As a result all English texts was turned to Belarussian by Jermak.

In autumn of 1998 the band had to say good-bye to Sergey Timoshik, who left owed the money to other musicians. After him, Vadim Yasnogorodskiy (ex-SEPTIC SHIZO) sat at the drums and stayed in the main cast more than half of year, but as time went on, it has been found that he treated to drums without any ardour. After that sorrowful revelation Denis Galitskiy (ex-HOSPICE) was invited as a drummer in autumn of 1999. Although he was bound up in his ZNICH project, he accepted an invitation and was on stage with AQUAMORTA the same autumn.

Now AQUAMORTA is: Vauchok (vocal), Astron, Thrash (guitars), Eugene Leukavec (bass), Den (drums).

During this tour the last change took part: Vadim Kaltigin, who hadn't enough time for the band was changed with Eugene Tsilikov (OUT OF REACH, PARTYZONE, PATHOLOGIST DEPARTMENT etc). With new guitarist who made songs accomplished, AQUAMORTA took part in one more session in Minsk and started preparing for "Zaklik Kryvi" album to record.

Record of an album began in the spring 2000 and was finished in the summer 2001. Duration of record speaks that musicians almost all made and were very captious in questions of perfection of a sound. In July, 2001 the contract with Metal Records was signed and from now on the album is accessible to all those who is interested in creativity AQUAMORTA (see section music).

AQUAMORTA members find their style as plenty traditional thrash metal with the influence of early DESTRUCTION, SEPULTURA, KREATOR. However this matter is reasonably relative. It's songs worth listening.

Conception of lyrics is based mainly on the Belarussian ethnic soil taking listener to the ancient world, away from the real civilization, to the world which shows the way to live and to develop human communities even now, without it outward embodiment.An imagination of the pure hatred that is present in the AQUAMORTA lyrics is an attempt to reconstruct the creed of our ancestors. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aquamorta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.