ArA’KuS, well known in the Seattle area heavy metal underground scene for their ability to deliver a live performance of epic proportions with their crushing guitar harmonies, seismic percussion and an increasingly abnormal union of stage presentation and intellectual story telling, is a concept based band that wants its listeners not to simply hear the music and sing the lyrics, but to enter the story and be consumed; to feel the music and become it.
ArA'KuS Members
Jeremiah Johnson - Guitar & vocals
Jeremy Veleber - Drums
Rachel Brunson - Keyboards
Randy Haines - Guitar & backing vocals
Ray Salamon - Bass
Whitney Burdge - Lead Soprano

Founded in 2001, Ara’Kus combines a unique and signature style of operatic heavy metal with powerful and atmospheric story based theater and sensational performance art.  Performers from all around the Pacific Northwest have come together to make this vision a reality and continue to develop it in new directions.  With every show, we strive to create an immersive atmosphere that pulls the audience into the world we have created in order to not only be engaged on a sensory level, but also an emotional one.  Theater and music lovers, aficionados of Science Fiction and Fantasy and those simply looking to escape the ordinary will find much to appreciate.

Our first production, Aeterno Elementum, tells the story of a world that has descended into darkness and it’s inevitable and violent purification.  This tale is related not only through the music, but also through an elaborate stage show as actors and performers present a chilling and poignant representation of the rise and fall of mankind.  Featuring martial artists and fully armed and armored knights, aerialists, dancers and musicians of all sorts, it is a unique experience that must be seen and heard in order to be fully understood.

We have a desire to reach as wide an audience as possible, therefore we have made a commitment to keep ticket prices affordable and have looked into many alternative pricing methods, including ‘Pay What You Can’ where venues will permit it.  We believe that everyone deserves quality entertainment without being forced to pay exorbitant admission fees.  So long as we can afford to keep doing what we’re doing, we want to ensure our productions are easily accessible to the general public. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ara%27Kus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.