Arachnes is a progressive metal band from Milan, Italy. They formed back in 1995 when Caruso brothers (Enzo/Vocals and Franco/Guitars) decided to give up their hard-rock project Firehouse in order to start a brand new musical-concept with lots of different influences and more oriented to the virtuoso-approach of guitars and arrangements. Their trade-mark sound originates from an incredibly wide range of influences, going from Deep Purple and Led Zeppelin to Yes, Miles Davis, Bach and Chopin to name a few. The first step in their career was the debut album THE GODDESS TEMPLE, released through the Italian label Lucretia Records in 1997, followed by the mini-CD METAMORPHOSIS, this time on Underground Symphony. After the release of Metamorphosis the band took a break and changed the line-up a few times. New bass and drum players were added and the guys started to search for a new record-label in order to get a bigger exposure especially outside of Italy. Arachnes finally signed a deal with Scarlet Records and started the working process for PARALLEL WORLDS. This is the beginning of the music-style evolution/revolution, building up more direct songs with lots of great power-speed riffing and an additional epic feeling, provided by choirs and orchestral hints. Especially Frank s guitar moves between neo-classical and jazz influences, giving Arachnes something unique and far from the usual standards. Parallel Worlds got excellent reviews around the world and for the band was the real breakthrough. The 3rd album, APOCALYPSE, was the first musical concept written by the band. The sound was even more mature and offered the same crystal technique both in melody and aggression. Caruso brothers worked on the production themselves. They recorded and mixed the album. Apocalypse got enthusiastic feedback also in Japan, where the top-metal label Avalon/Marquee released the album with a bonus track titled Epilogue. 

Like the previous album, Primary Fear was released in Japan by Avalon/Marquee with the addition of some bonus tracks. In 2006 the new release of Arachnes, 5th studio-album, IN PRAISE OF SCIENCE, already described by Caruso brothers as another big step forward in order to combine hard rock and progressive edges with symphonic atmospheres.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arachnes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.