1) Punk/Crust band from Brighton, UK
2) Black metal band from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, that formed in 1991.
3) Post rock band from Portland, Oregon, USA. http://aradiapdx.bandcamp.com

1) Punk/Crust band from Brighton, UK
Band Members Rhi - Guitar, Fox - Vox, Nick - Bass, George - Drums.
Aradia contained members of Leopard Leg/Back Stabbeth, Fall Of Efrafa/Flyblown/Farewell To Arms, Burning Times/Jettatura


Diana greatly loved her brother Lucifer, the god of the Sun and of the Moon, the god of Light (Splendor), who was so proud of his beauty, and who for his pride was driven from Paradise.
Diana had by, her brother a daughter, to whom they gave the name of Aradia [i.e. Herodias].
In those days there were on earth many rich and many poor.
The rich made slaves of all the poor.
In those days were many slaves who were cruelly treated; in every palace tortures, in every castle prisoners.
Many slaves escaped. They fled to the country; thus they became thieves and evil folk. Instead of sleeping by night, they plotted escape and robbed their masters, and then slew them. So they dwelt in the mountains and forests as robbers and assassins, all to avoid slavery.
Diana said one day to her daughter Aradia: 'Tis true indeed that thou a spirit art, But thou wert born but to become again A mortal; thou must go to earth below To be a teacher unto women and men Who fain would study witchcraft in thy school
Yet like Cain's daughter thou shalt never be, Nor like the race who have become at last Wicked and infamous from suffering, As are the Jews and wandering Zingari, Who are all thieves and knaves; like unto them Ye shall not be....
And thou shalt be the first of witches known; And thou shalt be the first of all i' the world; And thou shalt teach the art of poisoning, Of poisoning those who are great lords of all; Yea, thou shalt make them die in their palaces; And thou shalt bind the oppressor's soul (with power); And when ye find a peasant who is rich, Then ye shall teach the witch, your pupil, how To ruin all his crops with tempests dire, With lightning and with thunder (terrible), And the hall and wind.... And when a priest shall do you injury By his benedictions, ye shall do to him Double the harm, and do it in the name Of me, Diana, Queen of witches all!
And when the priests or the nobility Shall say to you that you should put your faith In the Father, Son, and Mary, then reply: "Your God, the Father, and Maria are Three devils....
"For the true God the Father is not yours; For I have come to sweep away the bad, The men of evil, all will I destroy!
"Ye who are poor suffer with hunger keen, And toll in wretchedness, and suffer too Full oft imprisonment; yet with it all Ye have a soul, and for your sufferings Ye shall be happy in the other world, But ill the fate of all who do ye wrong!"
One mission, Two cities, Three songs, Four people, Five shows... Earthstory, Herstory. For the queers, for the powerful, the knowing. 

Christina and Rhi now play in Bristol based band Casus.

2) Black metal band from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Formed in 1991 under the name 'Sri Mangkat'. Changed name to Aradia in 1993. Disbanded in 1998 and recently reformed in 2009.

Current line-up
The Burning Twilight - Drums, percussion, keyboards (Ravenlord (Mys), Cryptic Malediction)
Faustus Storm - Vocals, guitar (Ravenlord (Mys), Imperial (Mys))
Cor-Draconis - Vocals, bass
Trismegistus - Guitar (guest, permanent member 1997-2002)

Discography:

Alive....Gospel of Draconian Blackheart [Live Album](1998) 
The Draconian Blackheart [Best of Aradia](2002)
Draconis\' Eulogy (2010)

http://www.myspace.com/draconisaradia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aradia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.