Team:
Dmitry Gamaunov - vocal, guitar
Olga Bedash - vocal, keyboards
Dmitry Kononchuk - bass
Uriy Pluta - guitar

Bio:
The ARANRUT band was created in the late spring of 2009 by Dmitriy Gamayunov (guitar and back-vocal at that time) and Max Ganenko (guitar and harp). At that time they worked together on developing the famous computer game METRO 2033. There, at the 4A-Games company, they met Dmitriy Kononchuk – future bass guitarist. Lead vocalist and keyboard player became Tatiana Gamayunova.
The main vision of the music style was defined as classical symphonic metal and the band got down to first rehearsals. All the while the drummer was being searched, and the band performed using backing track with prewritten drums.
The first name of the band was “Nocturne”, but not every member liked the idea, that’s why in the autumn of 2009 the name was changed onto ARANRUT. 
That very autumn ARANRUT created their debut EP «Кто мы» (eng. «Who we are»), that consisted of three tracks – «Тени», «Вечный след» and «За гранью времён» (eng. «Shadows», «Eternal trail» and «Beyond the Times»). At that period the remarkable points of the band were leading female vocal and texts on Russian. The first performance took place right after the EP was finished. It was at the Kirovsk palace of culture, Donetsk region, Ukraine. That concert was the last when Max Ganenko played guitar, later he decided to concentrate on playing harp. The debut concert was successful and warmly accepted by people. Besides after it many EP albums were sold and money was spent on charity. After trying themselves on the scene, the band got down to writing full-featured album. And in December of the 2009 Vladimir Gutsaluk, who played another Kyiv  band “Panic”, joined the band as a drummer. Thus the final line-up of the band was formed.
The work on the first full-featured album lasted till the April of 2010. The disk was released totally by the efforts and means of the band and was called «Дьявольские Крылья» (eng. «Devil Wings»). The symphonic parts were written featuring Kyiv Symphonic Orchestra. The art work was made by the Alchevsk designer Dmitriy Dudko. Right after the record, beginning from May 2010, ARANRUT gives several solo concerts on the support of the new album, including concerts in Alchevsk and Kirovsk. New material was successful. But on the late spring of 2010 some issues inside the band caused pause. As a result, two people left the band. It was the drummer Vladimir Gutsaluk, who returned to his previous band, and the vocalist and keyboard player Tatiana Gamayunova.
At this state the band continued its existence mainly due to the efforts of its leader – Dmitriy Gamayunov. And in the summer of 2010 the single “What I Say” was recorded in English together with Leonid Akaev and Sergey Loginov. That stage could be named as a turning point for the band. It was decided to change the style of the material on the strong leading male vocal, English texts. And the music itself became harder. Besides that, classical symphonic metal was combined with elements of industrial and trash metal.
In the late summer of the 2010 the new line-up was formed. Place of the keyboardist took Olga Bedash, the new drummer became Alexander Kovalchuk and the second guitarist became Yuriy Pluta. First performance of the band new line-up took place on the 19th of September 2010 in the metropolitan club “BINGO” as a part of the international festival The Global Battle of Bands 2010, where the composition from the new album “My Hate” was played. After that the band concentrated on the new material and performs in Kyiv clubs.
At present the ARANRUT band leads active concert work and records new material.
On March of 2012 the new LP album “No Fate” was released. Main work was conducted on the Kyiv studio 100% Records.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aranrut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.