The band in its current form started in the winter of 2004. The Haapanen brothers (Vesa and Heikki) and Jussi Virtala had been playing together for some time before that but the band found its current path when guitarist/vocalist Juha Haavisto joined the band.

In the beginning it was just about four guys getting together and playing some metal. None of the guys could really play well but after a while some original songs of varying kinds were written and the band started to improve. Most of these early songs were mid-tempo and simple. At some point the band started to play faster and faster and the overall sound of the band changed to a more thrashy sound. And as Juha took over most of the vocal duties death metal influences started creeping into the bands music. Sometime in the year of 2005 the band was named Scavenger and played its first gig. The gig was anything but perfect but it gave the band more motivation as some people seemed to really like the music.

In late 2006 the band recorded the song “Denied” to the compilation album to be published by Alavus Rock Ry. This would be the only song the band released under the name Scavenger as the name of the band was changed in 2007. The compilation was named “Kuudes Ulottuvuus” (The Sixth Dimension) and it featured 23 tracks by fifteen band and was released in the summer of 2007. Some time after this the band finally decided to record their debut demo. So in the end of the summer of 2007 the band started the recording process in Super Evil Studio 6666 under the watchful eye of Teemu Maijala of Spiritus Mortis.
In the fall of 2007 Jussi had lost his interest in playing bass and decided to step down after handling bass duties for almost four years and so Arasaw and Jussi parted ways as friends. Near the end of the year Arasaw found Olli Palomäki as the new bassist.

In 2008 the debut demo “No Way Out” and the second demo "Feel The Bullet" are released. 2008 also marked the return of Jussi on vocals. 

In 2009 the band was writing new material and searched for gigs. Also in 2009 the band and Jussi parted ways (yeah, again) and so the band continues once again as a four piece.

The third demo from Arasaw will be released at some point in the future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arasaw">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.