Arbovirus:
We just needed a name while one of us was reading a blade comic and got the name from there. It means the virus that turns a person to a vampire when it is transmitted through a vampire's saliva.

Genre of Music:
Alternative Rock

History:
Arbovirus is a virus from Bangladesh formed in 2002 by Suharto, Ranjan, Ishtiaque and Ahsan who all were friends for a long time. In 2003 January they did their first show. After performing in some gigs with guest bassist, Jishan joined the band as a bassist. Ishtiaque and Ahsan left the band for personal reasons so the band was inactive for some time. Shuvo and Tanim joined the band in the middle of 2003. The band recorded their first song for the album Agantuk-2 and got an album deal just after the album had been released. After that they released 2 singles in mixed albums Lokayoto and Din Bodol. They released their debut album on July 20, 2006 named "64m 53s" consisting of 12 tracks. They released 3 more singles in Live Now (by Ershad), Boka Manushta (bya Sumon of Aurthohin), and Bonno (by Fuad).

Their latest single "Jaalo aagun jaalo" is about to be released in a new mixed album coordinated by Tipu of Warfaze.

The band is  honored to be one of the proud members of BAMBA.

Previous line up
Vocal - Ishtiaque
Guitars - Suharto & Ranjan
Drums - Ahsan, Tanim
Bass- Jishan

Present line up
Vocal - Sufi
Guitars - Suharto & Ranjan
Bass- Adnan
Drums- Nafeez

Other Artists who worked for The Band:
Tony [Black], Jubaer [ashor], Salek [reborn], Tanvyr [poison green], farhan [fulbanu’s revenge], rafi [the man behind the underground scene]

First Composed Song:
Artonaad

First Gig:
31st Jan Shishu Academy alt-metal show.

Biggest Show:
Mid December, Kamlapur Stadium,2007
End January, salt Lake Stadium, Kolkata, India, 2006.

Memorable Show:

End January, salt Lake Stadium, Kolkata, India, 2006.

Favourite Venue:
Engineers Institute , RCC.

Influences:
Led Zep, Soundgarden, Alice in Chains, Dream Theater, Disturbed, Incubus, Steve Vai, Planet X, Jimmy Hendrix, rage Against The Machine, Dominic Miller.

Album:
Currently recording the second album under the production of G-series.

Other Albums:
Aartonaad in the album Agantuk 2
Obhishap in the album Din Badal
Shopnadishto in the album Lokayoto
Prayoshchitto in the album Bonno
Shohor in the album Boka Manushta
Shurjo Shontan in the album Live Now

Gears:
Earnieball Musicman, Godwin twin pickup with piezzo out, Ibanez, Jackson, Fender guitars, Line 6 POD 2.0 and YAMAHA DG-Stomp amp simulators, Line 6 floor board, Boss mt2& BOSS digital delay, Peavy Amps, Yamaha Amps, Ibanez K5 & Warwick bass, Tama sticks & Pedals, Digitech Whammy pedal. Our Vocal don’t use anything.

Future Plan:
Touring the country with two albums.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arbovirus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.