Playing a raucous amalgamation of post-punk, psychedelia, and stoner rock with just a dash of punk, Arbor Labor Union are a rock band based out of Georgia. Initially known as Pinecones, the group rode a series of D.I.Y. releases to a contract with Sub Pop where, after switching to their present name, they issued 2016's I Hear You. The vibrant New Petal Instants LP followed in 2020.

The group was formed by Bo Orr on guitar and vocals, Ryan Evers on bass, and Ben Salie on drums, three friends who had been playing together since they were in high school. Orr and Salie launched an eclectic minimalist punk band called Mosaic, which would later include guitarist Brian Adams. Orr parted ways with Mosaic when he moved to New England for a spell, and he teamed up with a grindcore band called Dead in the Dirt. But Orr stayed in touch with his former bandmates, and they collaborated on new songs by swapping song files online. In 2012, Adams got an idea for a new project, a rock band influenced by the writings of Walt Whitman and Henry David Thoreau. Orr, Evers, and Salie were on board with the idea, and the band started playing out under the name Pinecones. Over the next two years, Pinecones accumulated enough material for an album, and they cut all the basic tracks for their debut LP, Sings for You Now, on April 1, 2014. Overdubs were completed a week later and the album came out in early 2015. Sings for You Now earned enthusiastic press, but it wasn't long before Pinecones changed their name to Arbor Labor Union. The name change didn't slow their momentum, and in November 2015 the group signed a recording contract with the esteemed indie Sub Pop Records. The band's Sub Pop debut (and first album as Arbor Labor Union), I Hear You, was released in May 2016. Following a couple of homespun D.I.Y. releases, the band returned in 2020 on the Arrowhawk label for their second official LP under the ALU banner with the wily New Petal Instants. By this point, founding drummer Salie had been replaced by Bryan Schere. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arbor+Labor+Union">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.