ARCANA 13 is a symphony of terror that melts together the Italian Horror legacy with the heavy and magical atmospheres of 70s Heavy Occult Rock music.
ARCANA 13 hails from Italy, the birthplace of cult horror movie masters like Lucio Fulci, Dario Argento and Mario Bava among many others. The ambitious quest of ARCANA 13 was to conceive a lethal mixture between the visual terror of Italian Horror legacy with the heavy and magical atmospheres of 70s Heavy Occult Rock music. Imagine Mario Bava's classic "Black Sunday" or Lucio Fulci's "The Beyond" with a Black Sabbath or Pentagram-inspired soundtrack: this is ARCANA 13.

Eight legendary movies were meticulously chosen for their specific atmospheres and around each of them eight songs took shape, with a unique process of music composition hand-in-hand with movie edit and postproduction that was directed by ARCANA 13 itself. This culminated in the debut album DANZA MACABRA that will see light in the darkness on Aural Music in March 2016 and also features the cover version of Goblin's acclaimed theme "Suspiria" from the terrific movie by Dario Argento.

Thus, ARCANA 13 were fortunate enough to get in touch with an Italian horror icon that brought to canvas the cult movies of Lucio Fulci, Dario Argento, Sam Raimi, Lamberto Bava: legendary artist ENZO SCIOTTI. Enzo managed to revive the golden age of Italian horror and went beyond his limit creating an unprecedented work of art for the cover of DANZA MACABRA. He commented: "This is my masterpiece… perhaps the best horror ever!"

Don't be fooled to think ARCANA 13 is a band with young untried musicians: Simone Bertozzi (guitar and vocals) has been writing and playing with danish metal heavyweights Mnemic and he's the mastermind behind The Modern Age Slavery; Andrea Burdisso (guitars and vocals) is the voice and axe of the visionary sludge band Void of Sleep; Filippo Petrini (bass) has been laying downtuned fuzz with Stoned Machine and Luigi Taroni (drums) has more than twenty years of experience in drum pounding.
Together they brought to life the tarot of death itself, the thirteenth Arcana, and cultivated the heritage of Heavy Occult Rock taking it to a new visual, mesmerizing level of experience.

DANZA MACABRA will be available as: Die-Hard ltd. edition Music Box, ltd. edition Gatefold color Double LP, ltd. edition Deluxe 8 panel digipak CD and Digital Delivery.

S. Bertozzi • Guitars and vocals
A. Burdisso • Guitars and vocals
F. Petrini • Bass
L. Taroni • Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arcana+13">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.