Archaios is a Death Metal band from Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic that miraculously has managed to survive almost two decades of several line up changes, periods of personal and public turmoil, lack of support from record labels, poor management, or a worldwide fan base. All this while living in one of the most ultra-conservative Third World societies of the world.

Since its inception in the Dominican underground scene in 1994, the band has enjoyed favorable popularity among other bands and fans of extreme music. However, their country’s predominant right-wing media has never paid serious attention to Archaios beyond the casual mention of the band as a “musical oddity” or to use it as target for censorship campaigns against Metal Music. In spite of this, the group has become one of the most important musical entities of the scene, giving fans dramatic and unforgettable stage performances at live events.

Due to constant member changes in the past, economic constrains and poor logistic support, Archaios has only released some demos and their album debut "Out of the Shadows" (2006). Although locally this recording was warmly received, the lack of support from a proper record label denied the band the posibilty of making an impact in the international Metal community.

However, things are about to change for the current and most solid line up of Archaios, which just finished the recording of its second full length, titled "The Distant". The recording began in 2009 as a self-financed venture and was partially abandoned after the band ran out of funds. In 2010 the independent record label Dark Canvas Records signed the band and propeled the completion of the album. After almost three years in the making "The Distant" has ultimately become an international effort: it was recorded and produced by the band in its hometown of Santo Domingo; mixed and mastered in Illinois, USA by Kanky Lora (who has worked with Straight Line Stitch, Cavalera Conspiracy and Mark Rizzo) while the cover artwork was designed by Brazillian artist Carlos Fides.

Along with higher production values, "The Distant" proves that Archaios’ music runs deep within traditional and modern Melodic Death Metal while incorporating diverse elements from other musical genres and soulful guitar solos. It also showcases a richer, broader and more sophisticated sound than the one acheived in “Out of the Shadows”. Themes of vengeance, despair, majestic and somber visions of uncertainity along with a deep sense of existentialism overflown the lyrics of the 8 songs of the album.

“The Distant” is scheduled for a 2011 Fall release and is on its way to become the first Dominican Metal recording ever released internationally by a foreign record label. While preparing for their first series of concerts outside their country, Archaios hopes that this album helps to change the international perception of Dominican Metal.The band and its label plan to donate 15% of “The Distant” sales to help in the reconstruction of Haiti, a nation still recovering after the devastating 2010’s earthquakes.

http://www.myspace.com/archaios

https://www.facebook.com/pages/ARCHAIOS/124088087604253 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Archaios">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.