Archaic Eclipse's describes their sound as "Extreme Symphonic Metal" which is Pagan Oriented Black/Death metal with a strong Symphonic atmosphere.

Archaic Eclipse originally started off in the fall of 2004 when Dustin Wake (Vocals/Keyboards) and Chris Hayes (Lead Guitarist) both left their current bands in order to create a melodic metal band, "Wolven Skys". The band went through more than 17 members before disbanding in mid 2006. In early 2007, Dustin and Chris began writing new music and searching for members for a new band. Archaic Eclipse was a result of the band's inspiration from nature and their strong belief in Asatru. Archaic Eclipse began writing and recording "In Fields of Morning Frost" in late June 2007. In August of 2008, Archaic Eclipse released their first demo "In Fields of Morning Frost". Archaic Eclipse released their 2nd demo "They Came With the Fog" in late 2009 and got a massive response from fans all around the world. In early 2011, With the addition of Joe Spillane (Bass), and Sebastian Boudreau (Guitar), The band completed their third demo "The Seidkona Oracle". Which was without a doubt the bands most technical and brutal demo yet!! The 3rd demo, along with their first two demo's was released in November 2011 as part of a hard copy CD titled "The Archaic Years". The hard CD will chronicle the band's musical journey from conception to fruition. Also, in October of 2011 the band gained JP Aden as their Drummer bringing the band to a full line up for the first time. They played their first show in early December of 2011 and have begun working on their first full length album!! Keep your eye out for Archaic Eclipse as they become one of the USA's most promising Symphonic Black/Death metal new acts of the decade!!!

As always, Archaic Eclipse is gracious to all our fans and their unwavering support!! Please suggest us to friends!!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Archaic+Eclipse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.