Lauded as S.A’s heaviest and most brutal band, Architecture Of Aggression consists of a two man demolition team and is respected/reviled throughout the S.A metal community. More infamous than famous, known for their outspokenness on subjects ranging from censorship, politics to matters of religion. They are well respected for their musical prowess and technicality as well as a strong sense of groove and have influences ranging from Death Metal through to jazz and progressive rock! Monsters on stage, their live shows are hectic and their mosh pits are legendary! Come see what all the hype is about…. if you dare.

A.O.A was formed by brothers Van Zyl (guitars/vocals) and Anton (drums/vocals) Alberts in 1995.

Ex-members: Brian Liebenberg (bass),Nardus (Bass),William Bishop (Bass)

ACHIEVEMENTS

Architecture of Aggression is one of the longest standing and well known South African Metal bands.

Architecture of Aggression have successful recorded three demo’s, one EP and two Albums.

Architecture of Aggression opened for Swedish Death Metal legends Entombed on their second South African tour in 2004.

Architecture of Aggression opened for Carcass in 2008 at the Witchfest Festival in South Africa.

Architecture of Aggression have played most of the major South African festivals including Woodstock, Oppikoppi, Motherfudd, Witchfest, Thornfest and The Lucky Fish Festival.

Architecture of Aggression signed an album deal with Witchdoctor Records for three albums.

Architecture of Aggression has toured South Africa nationally more than once. (The Domination Tour, African Chaos Tour, The Detonation Tour, Acts of Aggression Tour.)

Architecture of Aggression have performed in Botswana twice and headlined the Windhoek Metal Festival.

The controversial Rock against Religion show in 2007 organized by Architecture of Aggression threw the band into the limelight and they received major media exposure and recognition.

Architecture of Aggression have played all the well known venues in South Africa and with some of South Africa’s best bands.

Architecture of Aggression was set to open for international acts Nile and Devil Driver until the shows were canceled.

CONTACT

E-Mail: aoa666@gmail.com

http://www.reverbnation.com/architectureofaggression#!

www.aoa666.com

www.myspace.com/aoa666

www.mynoise.co.za/aoa666

www.youtube.com/AOAgodkill

Facebook- Architecture of Aggression

                                                                             

-The world has the year 1995 and the city of Pretoria to blame for heaving this progressive thrash-death metal band up in a steaming puddle, as well as the following influences: Sepultura, Slayer, Testament, Fear Factory, Meshuggah, Obituary, Deicide, Death, Malevolent Creation, Suffocation, Gorefest, Carcass, Sammael, Cynic, Dream Theater and Tool. Brothers Van Zyl (guitars) and Anton Alberts (drums), while still in high school, were offered a career in rock 'n roll by an elderly gentlemen in black with a red face and a top hat, in exchange for their souls. Soon afterward Brian Liebenberg was initiated as bassist.

The rest, as they say, is mystery. By 1996 the band began to hit the Pretoria metal scene in venues like Shaft, Wings Beatbar, Inferno, Cafe Galleria, The Pump Pub, etc. As soon as high school was finished with all three members, AOA left for London in early 1998, where it was to spend the next two and a half years living, gigging, and exposing itself to children on the Underground. Upon its return to South Africa in October 2000, AOA disgorged bassist Brian Liebenberg.

--None of the bassists available being quite base enough, and because William Bishop was still working as a professional Hanson groupie, the Alberts brothers decided to attack the scene as a 'two-man' band for over a year, relying on their Visigothic stage presence and beard topography to carry the day. At the end of 2001, then-Shadowlord bassist Nardus joined, until early 2003. It meant a return to the 'two man' attack until early 2004, when Big Willy finally got big enough.

--All seems poised for a sonic catastrophe the likes of which the country has never seen. Gathering speed, momentum and a dedicated following wherever it inflicts itself on unsuspecting populations, AOA has made its name synonymous with passionate, intelligent, outspoken, go-fuck-yourself-heavy metal.

--die koeel is deurrie kerk en tussenie dominee se fokken oee! 

Vanzyl  surfaced in 2011 in Bloodbeast

Disko
Under Destruction  -  Demo - 1997
Architecture Of Aggression  -  Demo - 1999
Cruci-fiction   - Demo 2000
Manifest Destiny  - EP - September 27th, 2004
Democracy: Consent To Domination - Full-length - September 11th, 2006
777 Rock Against Religion  -  Live album - July 7th, 2007
Acts of God: 4000 Years of Phallusy - 2009 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Architecture+Of+Aggression">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.