Archæus was formed by The Wanderer (guitar/tormented vocals) and Tymnhir (drums) during the year 2000. As time was passing by, the concept of the band was becoming more precise thanks to the first creations and the will to reveal a certain bestiality in man(…). After some rehearsals with a guitarist and a bassist, a shitty demo was recorded on January 2001, but even with new members, the essence of Archæus stayed on the founders' hands because of the extremist musical direction taken on the new compositions. Later, we found another bassist (Tom) who seemed to fit more seriously with the band, and no long after we played our first concert in Strasbourg(FR) on the 05/05/01. After two more live acts, although rhythm guitarist left the band, we finally felt a certain unity as a three-member band.

It is with this 3-member line-up that we entered a studio on July 2001, to record another demo with a better sound, thus to begin to spread our name to the Underground. Called "Unveiled, the lust for Torments", this self-financed Mcd was at first limited to 50 copies, and released only on a Cd-r format. After this release, Tom felt like leaving the band, but fortunately, we rapidly found another bassist (Deimos) who joined us at the end of 2001. A lot of rehearsals followed with this line-up, and we were also able to play some concerts near our town and in Benelux on the first half of 2002. It is at this time that we were absorbed by releasing another effort.

The next self-release is a more conceptual demo untitled The Annihil Chapter: a Source of Fire and is divided into two chapters, emanating from the two epitomes of Fire (the source & its nihil procession), leading to the Abyss of pain on the first part, and on the second one to Total Annihilation(…). This rawer recording reveals another aspect of Archæus, combining its quintessence with bestiality and velocity, with the synthesis of its conceptual approach with the synth-sounds(...).

After the Annihil Chapter of the band, we renewed ourselves with some additional material and more work, with the goal to finally achieve the recording of our first full-length album, as a result of our works from the early years. As we didn't want to release it as an auto-production, we decided to concentrate at first on a short promo-recording with some of our more representative tracks, trying to get a deal with some label for a forthcoming release of this eponym album… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Archaeus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.