Already coming from established bands with years of live experience, Newcastle England's five man metal outfit Arcite came together to produce music different and compelling from what a lot of people would dare, giving today’s trends and “fads”.

Rather than trying to be at the forefront of the next 'flash in a pan' genre, Arcite aim to present a typological construct that identifies their take on metal, combining all the elements they love and have been inspired by.
Forming in 2009 Arcite set out to establish their sound touring the UK and sharing stages with signed acts such as, Siege of Amida Records – Viatrophy, Traces, Eradication and Earache Records - The Boy Will Drown.

With their whole reputation built on nothing but intense live performances, Arcite started to release demos of their music to reach a wider audience but unfortunately couldn’t capture the same energy, precision and intensity the music had live.
This led them go to London to work with Dan Weller (Sikth/Malefice/Bury Tomorrow/Rise To Remain/Johnny Truant/Young Guns) to record a single track ‘In Taylor’s Eyes’ which shows the potential of the band on record and has went on receive huge praise, hundreds of downloads by fans and played on onslaught and bloodstock radio as well as busy alternative club nights in their home city of Newcastle.

Despite having no previous label backing or management, Arcite are making a lasting impression on the live music circuit around the UK. Never disappointing a crowd yet, Arcite are always gaining new fans while holding their ground against any band they share a stage with and 2011 shows the band stronger and more ambitious than ever, not losing momentum through minor line up changes and landing shows with bands such as
Glamour of the Kill, Shadows Chasing Ghosts, Shaped By Fate and US metal heavy weights Crowbar….with all this and much more on the cards, including a slot supporting Sylosis and Malefice in December, Arcite are definitely a band to look out for.

The band released their debut full length titled 'The Escape Key' in 2013. They are set to release their sophomore album in 2016. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arcite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.