There are three bands called Argonaut.

1) Female-fronted alternative grunge band from the UK.  Released their self-titled debut album Argonaut in November 2012 on Criminal Records, with track listing as follows:

1.Monet (4.02)
2.Touch Electric (2.51)
3.More Life (3.24)
4.2. Lights (3.13)
5.They Can Buy You (3.05)
6.The Detail (3.15)
7.Vintage Dress (3.53)
8.Spectres (5.19)
9.Chemistry (3.18)
10.Sleep Tight (3.45)

Female fronted 5-piece, Argonaut, were signed by Criminal Records after gaining interest on the London circuit. The band’s 10 track self-titled album 'Argonaut' demonstrates a mix of their rock influences, including Sonic Youth, Kim Gordon, Garbage, Hole and The Pixies. From the guitar led grunge of tracks like ‘Touch Electric’ to the stripped back sounds of tracks like ‘Chemistry’, the album represents a band who are not afraid to experiment with their sound and emotions. Argonaut’s next music video ‘More Life’ depicts the band walking through dimensions in search of a second shot at life.

"Argonaut are one of the best bands I've come across in 2012" 9.5/10
Steve, Street Voice UK

"Pretty good! Kind of remind me of the Cranberries meets Joy Formidable!"
Natasha Grant, Art Rocker

"A beautiful sound to open up the show with.  An oldskool, indie sound - the kind you don’t hear much these days, delicate floating female vocals – really liked that!"
Dave Gilyeat, BBC Introducing

‘It’s sparse – but i like that!’
Steve Lamacq,  6 music

"Sleazy rock falling somewhere between Royal Trux and Bikini Kill. Promising. 4/5"
Club NME, Brighton

"Driving tormented fuzzy- post-rocky sounds with moments of dirgy downbeat melody with Lorna’s preoccupied vocal echoing almost as if from the bottom of a lake covered in jagged winter frost."
Gordon Johnston, Glasswerk

‘Argonaut put forward a good case for being brilliant…sounds like Siouxsie  And The Banshees…their commitment to youth, ideas and passion should be lauded and rewarded’
NME

‘Quite a gem. Feels like there could be something quite special here.’
Propaganda, Reading

"They have the vim and vigour of the early days of Garbage but the modern cool of someone like Howling Bells..... an impressive debut album which has a distinct sound but enough variety in styles to maintain the listener’s attention throughout." 
Vanguard Online

http://www.twitter.com/argonautband
http://www.facebook.com/argonautband

2) A heavy rock band from Tacoma, Wa that has been compered to the Melvins, Kyuss, and such with a punk twist. The LP "Shoot The Moon" has recieved much acclaim and the EP "The Good Times and the Bad Times" is a Seattle radio mainstay on KEXP. The band has performed live on KEXP radio, toured the west coast, and played with many heavy hitters in the heavy rock realm. Argonaut was formed in 1997.

The lineup of the band is as follows:

Brandon Boote - Drums
Matt Sader - Bass and Vocals
Dave Takata - Guitar
Trina Walker - Guitar

3) Stoner rock band from the Czech Republic. 

http://argonaut.tichofobie.net/
http://bandzone.cz/argonaut <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Argonaut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.