There is more than one artist with this name:
1)Argos is a  Melodic Metal band from the west of San José, Costa Rica

The group is born towards ends of the year 2003 and is not but until January, 2005 when Roberto Sala (keyboards) manages to stabilize his first  with Yanina Vargas (vocalist), Juan Pablo Morales (bass) , Iván Acuña (Drums), Alberto Mora (guitar) and Ronald Castillo (guitar), Roberto Solano (guttural voice).



From this moment up to today Argos does constant appearances in the Costa Rican scaffolds, Some of them: Gira Nacional Metal Maniáticos‘05, Gira Nacional Mujeres de Metal, Metal Fusión ‘05  (battle of bands) where it qualifies on having gained the first place in  the third round , then to obtain the fifth place in the final.  2005 manages to gain the voting of the public on the page www.laescapatoria.com as the best debuting band  in Costa Rica.

06 takes part in Necurat Metal Fest ‘, it is a part of theGira Nacional Mujeres de Metal in his edition 2007, Inthe same year, in which the independent radio EvolutionRock of myspace (www.myspace.com/evolution_rock) locates to Argons in the position 31 of the 50 best Latin-American bands of a list of more than thousand bands that are transmitted in the podcasts of this radio.

During 2008 Tour takes part in Rock on ‘ 08, in the Celtic Festival and Metal ‘ 08 and in addition to Rock in the Farolito ’ 08, with what there manages to be part of the principal event of end of year a Rock in the Farolito realized in the Temple of the Music of the Park Morazán, an event massive and opened to everything in the public organized by the Center Cultual of Spain.



It was in 2006 that Argos began his first work in study of recording of independent form, it is the study Marsol 316 in San Jose the select one, and Alex “ Sandi “ Quirós, recognized in the Costa Rican rock for his band Trauma and many other musical projects and record productions, who turns into the musical producer of the debut of the band, so-called “ Angels, Men and Demons ”. On March 18, 2009 Argos presents to the public his disc in the acquaintance Latino Rock Café before his followers.

Later in the same year the first video of Argons, “ Doce alas Negras ” is nominated inside the “ Premios los de la casa ” in the category HardRock of the national channel of music VMLatino.



Some months later the band suffers his first big change of alignment, 3 members who had worked from the beginning, they go out of the band at the same time. Yanina Vargas Roberto Sala and Alberto Mora. Argos it happens of being a septet to a quintet. The remaining members decide to keep on fighting and working for Argos without any doubt, Katherine Villalobos takes the position of principal voice and mates in perfect chemistry with rest of members, also the band decides to be supported by a guitarist who from now will be only Ronald Castillo, only the vacancy for a tecladista remains open. This vacancy is even analyzed how to fill it in a future it, to integrate some new member or to settle it of some another form. This detail does not stop to the band in his work, Argos is already employed at the conceptualization of new material, at the promotion of his disc debut that in spite of the difficulties has a big success and it even keeps on giving surprises inside the national and international market. At present the promotion and distribution of this material that is in Costa Rica and a small distribution in Germany.




2)German act ARGOS initially started out as a solo project by multi-instrumentalist and composer Thomas Klarmann, an experienced musician who started out in prog and fusion bands in the 70's. He abandoned the progressive part of the music scene more and more as time went by though, concentrating on jazz, but when he discovered the new progressive movement in the mid 90's spearheaded by acts like Flower Kings and Spock's Beard, the passion for making and performing progressive music returned as well.

A chance meeting with Robert Gozon eventually lead to the formation of Superdrama, a four man strong band still active.

Klarmann wished to explore a broader style of music than what he could do in this band though, and started composing songs for a solo project in 2005. Gozon soon got involved though, and they set up a MySpace page where those interested in the project could listen to the material they produced.

One day Ulf Jacobs, a passionate lover of progressive music as well as a skilled drummer and composer, came across the page. he found the music highly compelling and contacted the band, offering his services.

The solo project, now expanded to a trio, started recording songs soon after, and were signed to French label Musea Records in 2008. Their self-titled debut album was issued in January 2009, and Argos are now busy working on their sophomore creation.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Argos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.