The band was formed in 1996 in Romania (Timişoara),by Fulmineos (vocals, drums, keyboard) and Erebus (guitars).

"The first demo was unleashed in the summer of 1997, with some additional members at bass and keyboards from Negura Bunget, the other black metal band in our town. The material entitled "Diabolical risen to the nocturnal sky" was well received even though it had a mediocre sound.

Next demo "Castelul Noptii" was released in the fall of 1998; it was an improvement, both in sound and at conceptual level. It sold quite well in the national underground and also foreign contacts were made with this occasion. There were two new members: Tammuz (bass) and Naamah (keyboards) but soon they had to go too.

So for the recordings of the debut album "Obscur si etern" Fulmineos and Erebus decided to work alone. Thematerial recorded in the spring of 2000 and was released on the tape version in 2002 by a small local label. The material contain seven songs as seven sins of fast but yet atmospheric funeral black metal, about 45 minutes of darkness and evil under the mighty forests of the Carpathian mystic lands.

After this first album the band composed new material entitled: "Solitar in Straniu" which featured another ten songs of funeral harsh blackness.

Also having some problems with the name, it was changed into: ARGUS MEGERE.Having some opportunities for live appearances they recruited new members: Izual on bass and Egregor on drums and started playing in different clubs and at some festivals. In autumn of 2006 was unleashed the ten years anniversary double-CD entitled "Inchinaciune Intunericului", a total surprise for the underground maniacs that have been following the band through all this time.

Now the new songs are already recorded and we prepare next year to release the new material “A treia cale”, the band already has some offers and we will decide in the near future. Also there is a new official member, Neith (ex. My Shadow, Negura Bunget) at keyboards…she has been playing with the band already from the summer of 2006, so it was a logic decision to become a full-time member.

In 2011 the second CD “Solitar in Straniu” will be re-released by Azermedoth Records in 1000 ex. and will be available world-wide and "A treia cale" will be released in the first part of the year, ending a period unsure future about this CD and the band itself, as they were unable to play live due to several promoting plans made by the labels who wanted but failed to release this third CD.

So Argus Megere is back to strike again true raw old-school  black metal in 2011, the two Cd's will be out, T-shirts and live events soon to follow." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Argus+Megere">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.