Arhont @MySpace
Arhont @Metal-Archives

EU Distribution
N. & S. America Distribution
Australia Distribution
Asia Distribution
Ebay

Arhont is a Macedonian band that started as a studio project in June 2005 as a result of music collaboration between Batskin and Sakh. During summer 2005 we worked out some riffs and musical ideas about the direction and style we were going to develop further.

In middle of Nov. 2005 we entered the studio of YCC – Bitola, recorded two songs and put them out as our Promo 2006 CD.
The overall idea was to simply let know Balkan and wider regions about our existence and work. 
Reactions to this promo were great which motivated us to continuously work harder and even more seriously on the following material.

Welcome ambient mastermind SIN.US (http://www.last.fm/music/SIN.US) as a regular member and in spring 2006 we started working with the drummer Ivo “Jeep” Ivanov from the Bulgarian death metal gang Enthrallment. 
Entered studio Basement in Pleven (Bulgaria) Oct. 2006 and recorded our debut self titled album. 
We widespread our promo version of the album and hunted for a deal with a suitable label.

As of beginning of November 2007 we have signed a record releasing contract with one of the most eminent Australian independent label Battlegod Productions. 
Thus we are very excited to see our album reaping the worldwide scene at 08th of February 2008. Beware….

With the first milestone in their artistic career, the Macedonian band ARHONT, one of the most innovative musical expressions in the metal scene today, draw their roots incorporated into a metallic shell, giving it the Shape of Speed.

ARHONT inspires history, feelings, dark inner visions and innovative currents that have been dragging the human being to eccentricity... The unique ART NOUVEAU of death metal.

Their debut album is a strong statement, developed into an artistic vision and melted down into metallic notes...think of glass, enamel, metal and plastic shaped to form some of the most erudite and original musical architecture, but also jewelry...

ARHONT is a band that should be kept an eye on, as they are extremely original and innovative. No matter what music you like, in ARHONT you will find something for yourself...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arhont">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.