Ari Koivunen (born June 7, 1984, Kouvola) is a Finnish heavy metal singer who rose to fame as the winner of the Finnish singing competition Idols in 2007. He has since gone on to become one of Finland's most popular and best-selling recording artists. 
Koivunen is a member and a vocalist of two Finnish bands: Ari Koivunen (2007-) and Amoral (2008-).Ari Koivunen's debut album, 'Fuel for the Fire', was officially released on the 30th of May 2007. The songs for the album were made by wellknown Finnish metal musicians and song writers such as Janne Joutsenniemi (SubUrban Tribe, Stone), Jarkko Ahola (Teräsbetoni), Marco Hietala (Nightwish, Tarot), Timo Tolkki (Stratovarius) and Tony Kakko (Sonata Arctica), among others. Recording musicians were Tuomas Wäinölä (Kotipelto, Nylon Beat), Mikko Kosonen (Maija Vilkkumaa), Nino Laurenne (Thunderstone), Mirka Rantanen (Thunderstone), Mikko Kaakuriniemi (Kotipelto), Pasi Heikkilä (45 Degree Woman) and Janne Wirman (Children Of Bodom). The first single from that album, 'Hear My Call', was released on May 11, 2007.

On June 11, 2008, Ari Koivunen (the band) published the second album - 'Becoming'. The major part of the songs were made for this album by Ari Koivunen band.

On November 25, 2008, technical death metal band Amoral announced Ari as their lead vocalist. He made his vocal debut with Amoral in the studio album 'Show Your Colors' May 6, 2009. The album is the fourth official release in Amoral's history but the first one with Ari Koivunen as their vocalist. 'Show Your Colors' reached Finland's chart-position No 19 in the first week. The album was released in the UK May 11, in Germany May 22, in The US. and Canada June 9 and in Japan July 22, 2009. There are two singles released of the album: 'Year Of The Suckerpunch' and 'Gave Up Easy'. Ari toured in Europe with Amoral at  autumn 2009.

Amoral works at a moment ( autumn 2010) with it´s fifth album and Ari Koivunen (the band) is in hiatus. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ari+Koivunen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.