There are multiple artists with this name:

1 Finnish melodic metal band Arion formed in 2011. 
Finland's newest melodic metal sensation Arion came out from the woodwork and dropped on the scene like a bomb. Comprised of a trio of 17 and 18 year old music students from Sibelius Lukio and their equally accomplished muso friends, Arion wrote their debut song “Lost” - a versatile piece of symphonic melodic metal - in the summer of 2012, entered it to the Eurovision song contest's Finnish qualification and found themselves in the nationally televised qualification rounds. Perplexed in the midst of the TV hoopla and everything therein, still trying to get to know each other as a band mates, Arion were already getting the first taste of celebrity treatment. After 3 televised performances, Arion's song sensationally wound up 5th among 540 songs and got nationwide applause and airplay. 
Viljami Holopainen - vocals
Iivo Kaipainen - guitars
Arttu Vauhkonen - keyboards
Gege Velinov - bass
Topias Kupiainen - drums

2   Arion is a Canadian artist with his specialties being rap & hip-hop, but is better known for his work with dubstep. Born Aaron Alijah Anderson in Mississauga, Ontario, Arion took up the stage name in 2004 during his freshman year of high school. Soon after, he began experimenting with electronica and dubstep. 

Though most of his fan base knows him for his Pokémon dubstep remix, he released a slew of other songs on his YouTube page.

More information can be found on his Facebook fan page.


3  Brazilian progressive rock band with influences from Renaissance, Marillion and folk music.
Line-up: Tania Braz (voices) / Luciano Soares (guitar) / Sergio Paolucci (keyboards) / Carlos Linhares (bass) / Nelson Rosa (drums) 


4  Arion is Slovak country band from Pezinok formed in 1989. Its lineup includes Vlado Ulrich (second guitar, vocals), Anka Ulrichová (bass and vocals), Roman Pruša (harmonica) and Vladis Čík (lead guitar). 





Note: the Montreal-based chamber music ensemble is called Ensemble Arion.
Note: if you arrived here through a link  looking for the label page of the French record label Arion then you can find a list of albums at Last.fm/user/Arion-Music .

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.