Originally formed in 2004 by guitarist Masayoshi Onodera, ARISE IN STABILITY experienced their share of lineup changes in the early years before locking in on their current five-piece crew.  The band members cite a wide range of musical influences that include bands such as KING CRIMSON, DREAM THEATER, BETWEEN THE BURIED AND ME, CYNIC, MESHUGGAH and many more.  While the impact of these technical and progressive metal influences are evident in the band's sound, ARISE IN STABILITY demostrate their own highly-developed technique with an aggressive sound that fuses intense, irregular tempos with energetic and passionate metal mastery.  One notable point is that the group's lyrics are sung in the Japanese language which adds a unique and distinctive flair to their powerful and finely-tuned performances.

As for the band's musical history, ARISE IN STABILITY released their first self-titled demo in 2006 followed by a second demo release "As Actual As A Desire" in 2007.  By 2008, the group had released their third demo "Creation Of Ruin", where the title track was eventually used for the band's official music video.  In 2009, the song "Blank That Won't Exist" was included on the compilation CD "Hoped Reality Vol. 1" released on the Last Fort Records label.  In 2011, ARISE IN STABILITY were included on Metal Hammer Magazine's supplementary CD "Global Metal Volume 3" which featured the song "Maverick's Wind".  Adding fuel to the band's ever-increasing international popularity, ARISE IN STABILITY released their first full-length album "The Future That Amnesiac Draws" via Last Fort Records in August of 2012.

On Feburary 10, 2013 the band announced that they will be taking a one-year hiatus from musical performances while their bassist Hiroshi Mizuno went to Canada. They have stressed that this isn't the end of the band and that they hope to prepare material for use on their next album.

Vo: Housuke Taniguchi
Dr: Suguru Yamashita
Ba: Hiroshi Mizuno
Gt&Vo: Genki Sano
Gt: Masayoshi Onodera 

http://www.myspace.com/ariseinstability <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arise+In+Stability">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.