Since starting out in Oxfordshire in late 2009 as experimental "bedroom producers", Arity have set out to break the line between mainstream-form music and experimental "underground" movements, incorperating the essences of genres ranging from glitch and electro, to classical orchestral and electronic jazz, combining them with mainstream styles to create a diverse range of distinctive and unique sounds.

The Arity project was started by composer and producer Joel Collins at the age of 17 as a means of experimenting with music, showing particular interest in using less popular styles in a way that makes them appealing to a wider range of people, focussing on experimentation more than staying within a known comfort zone.
Having been playing and working with music from an early age, Joel began working with experimental production in 2008 with various personal projects. Often however these projects ended up disjointed and poorly written due to no clear aim being set out. For this reason, the Arity project was started as a way to unify his work into one solid concept.

Shortly after Arity began to develop, vocalist Robynne Louisa Armstrong joined Arity having performed at several small gigs with Joel previously. The addition of Robynne drastically changed the way Arity was to be produced, pushing the boundaries further than ever before and adding a brand new dimension to the music. Robynne began work with Arity at the age of only 16, after performing at a few small shows, and eventually at a side-project gig with Joel. Throughout these various performances, the vocal diversity Robynne was capable of became increasingly clear, and along side a great passion for performing and writing music, made it perfect for the experimental styles aimed for by Arity. It became clear that Robynne was to become a key part in the production of Arity, and quickly became co-producer as well as vocalist, bringing Arity right into full swing. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.