There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Arizona was an indie rock band formed in Brooklyn, NY. The band is currently on indefinite hiatus.  The members are now working on other projects, including Wages (www.wageswages.com) and New Beard (www.newbeardcity.com).  

Arizona first formed as a three piece in 2005 when founding members Ben Wigler, Nick Campbell, and Alex Hornbake recorded debut EP "The Sun and The Room" which had artwork contributed by Brooklyn artist Deems (www.inaspoon.com).  The band gained a small but dedicated international following based on the strength of it's first full LP, 2006's "Welcome Back Dear Children".  Adding two new members, James DeDakis and Andrew Dunn, AZ released a new EP "Fameseeker and the Mono" in Summer 07.  In 2008 they released their second LP "Glowing Bird"  on the Echo Mountain Records, losing member Andrew Dunn in the process, followed up with "Glowing Bird B-sides" released via iTunes in March '09. Their official website is arizonatheband.com.


2) Arizona is a eurodance project from England that consisted of remixer/producers Michael Gray and Jon Pearn (both of Full Intention) and vocalist Zeeteah Massiah (born December 24, 1960 in Barbados). Their 1993 club smash "Slide On the Rhythm" (credited to Arizona featuring Zeitia) went all the way to #1 on Billboard's Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart.

3) Arizona is a girl band from North West England, who released a single 'Electricity' on July 13, 2014 in order to raise money for Cancer Research. Includes members Grace O’Malley, Jess Haworth, Jess Watts and Sophie Wooding.

4) Arizona is also the alias under which Dutch trance producer Thomas Bronzwaer used in the 2000s. Major works by Arizona include Labyrinth, a remix of Skyline by Stenna, a remix of Endorphine by C-Quence, and Paragon. Arizona also collaborated with Paul Moelands in 2003 to produce Starburst and Profound. In 2005, Arizona produced with Galen Behr to bring their massive uplifting tune Halo to the spotlight.

5) Arizona was a hard/classic rock band from Kristiansund, Norway, in the period 1985 - 1987. The most prominent line-up consisted of Gjermund Elgenes, vocals; Bjørn Eirik Wammer, guitars; Vidar Jensen, guitars; Tor Aarnes Sæther, keyboards; Odd Magne Wammer, bass; Kjetil Høyvik, drums. Studio recordings of songs, some published, and several rehearsal recordings exist.

6) Arizona is a hardcore/post-punk band from Aarschot, Belgium formed by ex-Exit on the Left members Tom, Bert and Bo, joined by Sam (Second Base, ex-Old Fashion Heroes). Signed by Funtime Records, they released their first full-lenght album 'Popcorn & Cinemagic' May 28, 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arizona">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.