Due to the similarity of their names, ARK are often mistaken for The Ark, a Swedish glam rock band. There is no connection between the two.

There are several Artists called Ark:

(1) ARK is a Norwegian progressive rock band resulting from the friendship and musical collaboration of guitarist Tore Østby (Conception) and drummer John Macaluso (ex-TNT, Yngwie Malmsteen), who later joined up with singer Jørn Lande (Jorn, Masterplan) to record two acclaimed albums.

Lande, Østby and Macaluso were joined by Randy Coven (Steve Vai, Steve Morse) on bass and Mats Olaussen (Yngwie Malmsteen) on keyboards for their second effort, Burn The Sun.


(2) Real Name: Guillaume Berroyer
Seen as the pioneer of the new experimental/minimal house style in France over ten years ago with releases on Brif, ARK has gone on to collaborate with and inspire a multitude of today’s established and rising stars across Europe... and the world ! From his origins as guitarist in a number of 80's funk bands, most notably Trankilou, where he hooked up with the legend that is Pepe Bradock and onto the great Matthew Herbert & LoSoul with their first collaboration, 'Belle Lurette' in '99. The 'Alleluyark' EP series from 2003 reaffirmed as his status as chief protagonist of experimental, groove led house and techno. His 2005 long player on Perlon, 'Caliente' won him critical acclaim, which is furthered by his more recent works together with Cabanne (as Copacabannark), David Taieb (as Shalark), Mikael Weill (as Les Cerveaux Lents), and Dolibox. His cannon of remixes is as long as the channel tunnel, reworking the likes of Stephen Beaupre, Mr. Oizo, Mossa, Salif Keita, Slabb, Krikor, Fym, Cabanne, Robag Whrume... Perlon releases his new album "Arkpocalypse Now" on April 2010.

(3) ARK is a band formed from previous members of The Fall, the title is derived from the front man of The Fall, Mark E. Smith. The name means Mark without the M, the only studio release from the band was Brainsold in 2002.

(4) Ark are an indie electro dance act consisting of various different members composing various different sounds upon each selected track. Formed in early 2010, band members Stephen, David, Ellen and the two Adams approached the electro dance scene armed with a hybrid of ideas, incorporating both classical and instrumental to the synth and electro trash. Now with one album under thier belt they are again in the studio producing a second album hoping to keep the inspiration of 'porcelain jesus' whilst making sure a hybrid of sounds are esablished. 

(5) ARK is an English singer-songwriter. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ark">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.