The idea of forming Arkhon Infaustus came to D.Deviant's mind in late 1997 in Paris, Île-de-France. He needed to express more personal conceptions through a more brutal and bestial kind of music and image. He was soon joined by 666Torturer. So was born the band which wasn't based on a part time role played by its members but on their everyday life philosophy.

At the beginning of 1998, a rehearsal demo was recorded and was quickly after put on CD by Mordgrimm Records (Cacophonous Record's artistic manager's label who also discovered bands such as Dimmu Borgir, Cradle of Filth, Covenant, etc…). The MCD "In Sperma Infernum" was limited to 666 copies.

In 1999, Hellblaster became Arkhon Infaustus's third drummer. The band entered the studio to record two tracks which were released in 2000 by Spikekult Records in a EP version called "Dead Cunt Maniac". The first pressing (200 copies) was sold out in 10 days and the second one (300 copies) was sold out after a month. The EP's reviews were more than positive and very optimistic for the band's future.

Right after the EP was released, the band started to look for a label to release an album. The first one they did contact, Osmose Productions, immediately accepted.

Arkhon Infaustus entered studio in December 2000 to record "Hell Injection" composed of nine brutal and bestial blackened death metal tracks.

Arkhon Infaustus performed live many times in 2000 with bands from all over the world including Immortal, Impiety, Enthroned Triumphator, Watain, Antaeus, Gospel Of The Horns, Abigail and Adorior. Even before the album was released the band's shows were appreciated. Many reactions were observed during their live performances, for instance during a black metal festival some spectators even left the concert hall; being shocked by the show's sexual character. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arkhon+Infaustus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.