Gerry Arling and Richard Cameron, simply known as Arling & Cameron, are a Dutch duo, who make electronic music:: loungy, relaxed, jazzy, sometimes more uptempo. 

Arling & Cameron are obsessively pan-eclectic. They are so post-everything that they're not even a band. After years of toiling in acclaimed obscurity providing mutant soundtracks to the lives of the hipper dance floors and denizens of this world, their solid songs have now officially entered global consciousness through extensive use in some mighty mass media.

They have been working together since 1994. Richard Cameron was a singer/songwriter (he did support acts for, a.o., Lenny Kravitz, INXS, Suzanne Vega and Marc Almond) and artist and Gerry Arling was a jazz bassist and pop-producer. Together they shared a love of electro and dance music and their first collaboration, 'Airbag' for Richard's concept art group Volvo, was a genuine electro/dance track.

That electro/dance element has been a part of their music since and on their new album GOOD TIMES this can be heard more clearly than ever: elements of R & B and pop ("Good Time," "Automatic", "Tic Toc"), rap ("Reanimated '' 80s), dancehall (" Come On ") and afro beats (Cityhopping) effortlessly merge and create an eclectic sound with a unmistakable Arling & Cameron signature.

The song "Eve", with Nina Hagen, was born out of a collaboration in 2009 of Arling & Cameron with supermodel Eva Herzigova, when working on a ambitious project with supermodels, which Arling & Cameron started after their song "Dirty Robot" was covered by The Lemonheads on their album 'Varshons. This cover version, of Arling & Cameron's song 'Dirty Robot' by the Lemonheads, was sung by Kate Moss and the plan came about to record an album with 12 supermodels. Unfortunately, the project was never completed but some songs on 'GOOD TIMES' were originaly created for the Super Model project and now have found a spot on the new album. They are the tracks ,,Club Fashion", ,,Cityhopping", ,,NY is burning" and ,,Eve".

Arling & Cameron are no purists. They were successful with the project Popcorn, a Northern Soul-like project with DJ Eddy de Clercq in '94/95 (Popcorn's track 'Tap-moi la! "Is a timeless classic and can still be heard today on J-Wave radio in Tokio) and their EasyTune records (released in the 90s) but most people know them because of their collaboration with the japanese band Pizzicato Five on their album Happy end of the world, to which they contributed the song "arigato, we love you", and for their faux film soundtrack album ,Music For Imaginary Films'. 

On previous albums Arling & Cameron worked with many guest singers, including Fay Lovsky ("Gershwin"), Leona Philippo ("Born in June","Let's Get Higher',"New Day") and Princess Superstar ("Computer"). On the new album GOOD TIMES there are guest vocal appearances from Faberyayo, from LeLe (Cityhopping), Princess Superstar (Reanimated' and ''80s"), DUZT ("Good Time") FERAL is KINKY ("Come on"), Merante Tamar ("Tic toc") and, last but not least, the legendary Nina Hagen ("Eve").

Since their album "We Are A & C", in 2001, Arling & Cameron don't do live tours anymore. The last major live performances were at Electronic Beats (Rockpalast - Germany) and Lowlands (Holland), in the summer of 2001. Then they crashed on tour in Spain with the band bus, Cameron broke his back and couldn't perform for half a year.

Arling & Cameron since then has been more or less less dormant. Gerry Arling & Richard Cameron still did some soundtracks together (including Oysters at Nam Kee's, Das Jahr der ersten Küsse and Boys & Girls Guide to getting down) and also 'solo' projects were done (Arling had success in Holland in 2014 with the music theater show Space Dogs. Cameron with his wife Karin, as Mr & Mrs Cameron, did a music theater show in David Lynch's Club Silencio in Paris).

In 2006 Arling & Cameron released an album on the label Challenge Records (Hi Fi Underground) but no live tours were done to promote that album.

Despite their self inflicted 'hibernation' Arling & Cameron's music was, and is, widely used in films, commercials and TV series. "How About The Boys' in a GAP Kids commercial in USA / Canada (1999), 'Shiva's R & R dub' in a global Beck's advertising (2008/2009) and" Voulez-vous? "In the HBO series The Sopranos, are a few examples of a long series of "synchs" with their music. In Korea and China their music was used in TV ads by Samsung, Motorola and many others.

For GOOD TIMES Arling & Cameron made plans for a live show so maybe this summer Arling & Cameron, for the first time since 2001, can be seen live at festivals. Around the time of the release release of the record in Europe (3 April 2015) the first dates should be known. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arling+&+Cameron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.