Armageddon Holocaust plays thrash / punk-influenced black metal from Indonesia. A project of Doctor D and Jeffray Arwadi ("Meister J")
Some material can be viewed as christian, but overall lyrical themes include the apocalypse and the death of mankind. 

The band is disbanded as of 2005.


ARMAGEDDON HOLOCAUST was originally a one-time project band consists of Dark Doktor (also known as Doctor D) and Dark Thriller. They unleashed its phenomenal album "Into Total Destruction" in July 2000, the only album which was intended to be released under the name ARMAGEDDON HOLOCAUST before the band disbands itself. Their musical concept is what they call "APOKALYPTIC DESTRUCTION METAL", with the fastest, most extreme and intense structure of old-school black metal music. Shortly, the album started to become the underground legend of itself as the band was no more (for a while).

Later in 2002, both Doctor D and Dark Thriller recorded their own solo-projects separately under the name DOCTOR D and DISASTROUS AGE. Both bands represent their own basic roots of metal. Doctor D's influences were old-school extreme metal in the vein of Venom, Motorhead, Hellhammer, Celtic Frost, Bathory, Unseen Terror, and some old Discharge and GBH as well, and he recorded a full-length release which was planned to be out under the title "D-Liverance".

Dark Thriller's band DISASTROUS AGE was taking another extreme direction, a more brutal, death metal feel in the old-school way, citing influences from early POSSESSED and DEATH. Unfortunately in the middle of recording sessions, Dark Thriller abandoned the project after only recorded guitar tracks for a couple of songs as he found himself unable to handle the project. Both bands got some significant help by Meister J in the production duties as well as performaces.

It was July 2002 when Dark Thriller decided to resurrect ARMAGEDDON HOLOCAUST and once again he would bring Doctor D and Meister J together in one unit as band performers. He himself will contribute only on the songwriting but not performing in any future albums. In October 2002, Doctor D finally agreed to join ARMAGEDDON HOLOCAUST and he even disbanded his "strange" and overlooked DOCTOR D band.

Almost all the material for unreleased DOCTOR D's album "D-Liverance" was re-presented as ARMAGEDDON HOLOCAUST's 2nd album "Radioactive Zone 245".

Dark Thriller left ARMAGEDDON HOLOCAUST again in 2003 due to his metal illness, and Meister J called his friend, Necro W, to fill in the guitar for the 3rd album "Nekrofonik", which was released in 2004. After "Nekrofonik" is released, Meister J and Doctor D decided to quit ARMAGEDDON HOLOCAUST.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Armageddon+Holocaust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.