ARMAGEDDON (Rev 16:16) are the longest living Cypriot Rock group and are characterized by continuous live presence since 1984. Their first name was Heavy Duty, and back then played cover songs . .In 1985 the band was renamed Armageddon and opened the concert for Spitfire, (a legendary Greek band, that toured with Saxon).

After a lot of sweat and efforts original material was created and the band recorded their first demo (1987) with the songs: Raiders of steel, Return of the king, Armageddon (instrumental) and Striking back. In less than a year afterwards, a second demo with 8 tracks , (4 older songs, that after performed live and matured, were re- arranged , and recorded again): Raiders of steel, Return of the king, Rocking the universe, Judgment day, To the unknown (speed version), E.K. Seventeen, Striking back and Armageddon (instrumental) .

Their first attempt in discography was a vinyl EP in 1991 with All Records. The EP was loved by the rock and metal music fans and established Armageddon as one of the best groups of this style in Cyprus and not only. After a simple search with the keywords Armageddon Rev in www.google.com you get a lot of pages that you can buy the first EP as a cd (remastered in CD in 2003 by the magazine True metal)(UNISOUND RECORDS), actually only from companies abroad since in Greece,it was given free of charge with the magazine as a collector reissue. The vinyl is considered a rare $500 a piece and a collectors item according to www.metal-treasures.at and according to www.sonicagerecords.com :
"ARMAGEDDON - Rev. 16:16 CD MEGA RARE $500+ EP from the island of Cyprus that KICKS-ASS! The opening track "Raiders of Steel" is a MASTERPIECE!!! You will never see this on vinyl because only 500 copies were made and they have all disappeared in private collections forever. "



In 1997 the band records a new song "Times of frustration" for the collection "Blood brothers, a compilation of recordings by rock bands in Cyprus" by Laughing stock disks

In 1998 "Spoils of conflict" a mini album CD is released by City Records. It moves in a more somewhat progressive style and is more mature and balanced, with 6 new tracks, among them a new version of "To the unknown" that was changed into an epic ballad and "Times of frustration" from the collection Blood brothers with a new arrangement. Track list included: Oblivion, Last mile, Times of frustration, Passage to Hades, Beyond and to the unknown. The song "Last mile" was filmed for a Video clip and played by all Cyprus TV channels but also by Mad TV in Greece and the popular Rock program jammin of the Greek National TV. (ERT 3).Spoils of conflict played in radio stations around the world(Europe,Argentina, Australia e.t.c.) Magazines as "Metal Hammer", "Rock Power", "Metal Invader", "True metal", wrote articles with positive reviews for the band.



From 1985 Armageddon remains active apart from small periods of inactivity due to technical problems that all bands go through (changes of members, problems in finding substitutes, army e.t.c.). The band performed live almost everywhere in Cyprus, in pubs, clubs, festivals, town halls and other events as well as in television programs, and concerts. They have played in concerts with Spitfire, Rotting Christ, Nightingale, Antimatter(x Anathema members) Nightfall, Siva Six but also with Greek rock groups like Magic de Spell and other acts.

They also participated in the festival "Hysteria 99" in Bourgas, Bulgaria (http://www.geocities.com/SunsetStrip/5662/Hysteria99/) and during the bombardments of NATO in Serbia participated in the huge anti-war concert that took place in the centre of Belgrade in 1999.

In the summer of 2005 Armageddon appeared in the Exit Fest 05 on the Metal Hammer stage along with Bands like Slayer, Napalm Death, Diecast, Apocalyptica, Sick of it All, Garbage, Deadsoil and many others. http://www.exitfest.org/eng/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=119&Itemid=68

In the 1st Internet Heavy metal Eurovision contest Armageddon was chosen to participate as a contestant for Cyprus with the song Last Mile and was placed 2nd behind Pretty Maids from Denmark. http://esc.ruz.net/2005/metal1.htm

Armageddon's music moves mostly in melodic Power Metal with progressive influences. They are currently working on new material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Armageddon+Rev+16:16">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.