ARMOROS was formed in 1985 shortly after Mike Sudar & Terry Groom met in Vancouver, BC at a Metallica concert on the Ride the Lightning tour with Armored Saint. Terry moved back to his hometown of Victoria where Mike resided. They soon recruited Todd Verch on bass, Jed Simon as 2nd guitarist and Kevin Wright on Vocals. As the band progressed they became more inspired by bands such as Slayer, Exodus and Dark Angel and geared towards the Speed Metal vein. This eventually brought about a reformation as they were recording their first demo “ Debut Assault”. Todd was replaced by Rick Lee for bass, and eventually he also took over vocals as well. This final formation of four would then go on to record their next recording ”Ressurecdead” which better represented their thrash metal style. In ’87, they gained a growing local fan base and decided to send their demo to the top underground Metal magazines at that time, Metal Forces, & Kerrang. Resurrecdead received positive reviews by both and soon requests for the demo came from all over the world. By 1988, they recorded their next demo thrasher, Remember Michelle which again received international underground praise. This brought about many opportunities to open for such metal legends as: Vancouvers’ Witches Hammer & Karrion, Seattle’s Forced Entry & the Accused, and metal greats Kick Axe, Anvil, Sacrifice, and Dark Angel! After placing 2nd place in a battle of the bands in Vancouver, they were awarded some recording time at Profile studios. It was there that they recorded their full length album, “Pieces”, which was to be released by Seattle’s Ever Rat records in 1989, but for unknown reasons to the band, the contract was cancelled and eventually the band disbanded. They reformed in 1992, and recorded another demo that never got completed nor ever ended up being released. By 1994 members went their separate ways & sought other opportunities. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ARMOROS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.