Army (Fritzmaurice Williams) was born and raised on St. Croix, Virgin Islands. He began his musical journey at the age of five as a member of the youth choir at the church his family attended. Little did he know that he was laying the foundation for what would become a very promising musical career. Determined to explore a variety of styles, he learned to play the saxophone, became a member of a jazz band and sang in various local bands. After relocating to the New York City, completing his education, and serving in the US Army (which is how he got his name), Army returned home and became deeply involved in the local reggae scene. In the early 70's, Jamaica was bubbling with an incredible amount of untapped musical and vocal talents. That same level of energy, enthusiasm and potential is present today in the Virgin Island of St. Croix. Army is to be counted among the many conscious singers and players of instruments from St. Croix who are worthy of international recognition. The voice of Army first surfaced several years ago on the famously vital (though obscure) compilation Eastbound. Soon after, Army contributed several selections to the Homegrown compilation album. In 2000, Army's first album -Yesterday's News - was released on Glamorous Records, with production provided by Dean Pond. In 2002, Army linked up with Dub Rise Records who released his second album, Struggler, along with a re-release of Yesterday's News. 2003 saw Army releasing the single Calling Jah Army, a powerful duet with Luciano. This year, Army's song, I Don't Know is included on Bambu Station's acclaimed compilation, Talkin' Roots II. With this solid foundation of tunes under his belt, Army embarked on the recording of his highly anticipated third album, Rasta Awake. Largely produced by legendary guitarist and multi-instrumentalist Tuff Lion (of Bambu Station), Rasta Awake is a masterpiece of all-live instrumentation roots reggae. The 13 tracks on the album capture Army at previously unseen creative heights. His poetic songwriting challenges and connects with the listener in a way that few other songwriters are able. Army's voice - while influenced by such artists as Nat King Cole, Dennis Brown and Freddie McGregor - is unique in all of contemporary reggae with its amazing ability to be both deeply soothing and intensely energizing. With a voice as invigorating and free as the wind, and with word sound utterances that penetrate hearts and minds, Army's mission is clear. He is firmly committed to using his music as a weapon in the war for spiritual renewal and justice for all peoples. As Army describes: I want to send positive universal messages to people through my music, without the commercialism we see so much today For me the music is a healing. I feel that the music healed me, took me to places where I could have not necessarily have been without it. I also feel that if someone could walk away with some type of healing, (that) they could be touched in some kind of way, they could associate themselves with some aspect of the music and then say 'wow,' maybe I'll make it after all. If I could shine some light some how, I would know that I have done something. Army continues to do something special for all those with ears to hear this unique and much-needed voice. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Army">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.