There have been at least two groups called themselves Arrows.

1. Arrows (US/UK 1970s glam rock band)

Arrows were a mixed group of American and British musicians that made their biggest impact in Britain during the mid 1970s. The band worked with producer Phil Coulter on their one and only album, 1976's First Hit, which didn't really catch on in America but gave them a modicum of success in Europe. 

Several singles produced by Mickie Most preceded the album, the most significant was "I Love Rock 'N Roll," which would go on to be a global hit for Joan Jett a few years later. The band was made up of bassist/vocalist Alan Merrill, guitarist Jake Hooker, and drummer Paul Varley. The three also scored a UK television deal, leading to a regular series that played from 1976 to 1977. The group broke up in 1978, leading Merrill to pursue a solo career and record with artists as varied as Meat Loaf and Rick Derringer.

2. Arrows (Australian post-rock band 2000s)

Forming in Brisbane, now spread between the Northern & Southern states, Arrows are post-rock balladeers without a filter. Unconventional “rock” instrumentation over bombastic / receding harmonies. Desperately reaching vocals which roll ceaselessly between pop & depravity. Round this out with a strong DIY ethic, dive-in.

First a self-released demo in 2006, following with a 12” split the year after, Arrows soon became a genre favorite amongst a tiny few. But it was the debut album Modern Art & Politics that would flood onto “Best of 2008” lists here & across the globe, a record possessing an honesty that has garnered them an obsessed fanbase both in their Brisbane hometown and in underground circles worldwide. Almost two years on, Arrows have recorded Try and Stay Upright, seamlessly more dynamic and emotionally gripping than its 2008 predecessor – slower, shorter and certainly this young bands most powerful statement yet.  The group split up in 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arrows">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.