There are multiple artists named Ars Moriendi:

1) Ars Moriendi is an industrial band from Germany, founded in 1989. After a few years and a few line-up changes, in 1991 they became more electronic orientated, developing into dark and ritual sounding industrial, eventually venturing into more dark ambient rhythmic drone. They broke up in 1994 because the members' solo-projects became more important, only to resurface in 2002 for a live reunion show, which was released in 2003. The band reunited once more for the Maschinenfest in 2008.

2) Ars Moriendi is a one man black metal / depressive rock band from Clermont-Ferrand, Auvergne, France, founded in 2001. Sole member is Arsonist (ex-Solipsis).
He released a bunch of demos and two full albums to date: "L'oppression du rien" in 2008 and "Du tréfonds d'un être" in 2011. In 2012 he released a split shared with Notre Amertume titled "Agonie d'un ancien monde". Official site: http://arsmoriendi.free.fr

3) Ars Moriendi was an atmospheric death doom metal band from Vilnius, Lithuania, formed in 1996 and split up in 1999. They released a self-titled demo in 1997, and a full-length album titled "Sightlessness" in 1999. Members included: Jonas (guitars, keyboards, backing vocals), Audrius (bass, additional vocals), Ruta (violin, backing vocals) and Rimas (drums).

4) Ars Moriendi is a melodic death metal band from Austria, which is currently on hold. The band was formed in August 1998 by Christian Keimel (drums) and Heiko Ernstreiter (lead guitar), in September 1998 Michael Wegleitner (vocals, rhythm guitar) joined.
In October of the same year the band was completed by a bass player, who left again in August 1999 because of musical differences and time problems. In January 2000 they recorded their first demo CD and provided their then newest title "World of Hate" for the "All Different All Equal" sampler of the JUZ Spektrum.
Long after the bass player left we at last found compensation for him in Michael Kriegl, but he also had to leave in June 2002 due to prior commitments in his work.
In April 2003 they found a suitable bass player in Thomas Iberer. After they rehearsed new songs with this line-up, they started recording our real debut "Dissimulated" in December 2003. The release of this 5-Track-Album was more often postponed than they had imagined due to timely problems of the studio-technician. Still they managed to release it in mid-July as a self-production.
In September 2004 they were again working industriously on new songs for a new and full length CD with max. 10 tracks. The songs are going to be more compact and direct, but also more demanding and intensive.
Their EP "Your Soul On Our Screen" was released December 2005 and contains 3 tracks which should give you a taste of the album, recorded in winter 2005 and spring 2006. Concerning the style, it will hook up to older material but it will also have some surprises in store.
In April 2006 their drummer Chri left us for reasons of musical and personal readjustment, however they swiftly found replacement in Mike who formerly was a member of Rebellion Flag.
In June 2006 they will record our Debut Album "Journey To Your Agony". It will be released in early December 2006 at NoiseHead Records.
After they finished the hole recording of our new record we found a new suitable second giutarist. His name is Chris and used to play in Impurity and other bands.
In August 2006 they had to replace our bass player. Finally they found Yosh and came to the conclusion that he had to become their new, appropriate bass player. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ars+Moriendi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.