All began in 1998 when Sathor (guitar) and Nero Baratro (bass) founded Ars Macabra.

In the beginning of 1999 they were joined by Abyss on drums and Azrael on vocals.

During winter 1999 they went in the studio to record their first self-financed demo tape
7 songs very raw of obscure hyper fast music with unconventional freezing riffs.

The tape was re-recorded during July 1999 in between the studio session two new songs were written and
Added to the tracklist, and it took the name of "Iter in obscuritates mentis" which contains also Latin lyrics.

After few live gigs Sathor and Nero Baratro take the decision to remain the only band members
and to start looking for a label deal.

During the summer of 2001 they sign a contract for two records with the Italian label Elegy Music
they record the their first full lenght album "Daemonolatria Hypnotica" 9 traks lasting over 40 minutes of new material.

Always on Summer 2001 the track "On the art of suffering" is included in the "Wild zine" compilation.

In the summer 2003 the official band web-site is created and after several auditions three new members join the band
Carnag_744 on drums ,Tehor on guitar and Myst on vocals.

During January 2004 the necessity to have a stable and reliable line up force Tehor to quit.

During March 2004, due to personal issues, Carnag_744 is left out from the band and replaced by the drum machine.
Ars Macabra choose to carry on as a 3 members line-up...During September 2004 they play some live dates and one of those
supporting Impaled Nazarene during their Sicilian date.

On September 2004 the drummer Sargon join the band, on September 2005 they enter studio to record a two tracks demo for label
submitting only..

During December 2005 Myst leaves the band he but will continue collaborating as producing assistant.

On January 2006 Ars Macabra sign a new contract with the Satanic Canadian label Sinister Sounds for a record deal,
they start working on the new material that should be out within next summer with the following line up

Sathor : guitars
Nero Baratro : bass
Sargon: drums/vocals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ars+Macabra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.