There are multiple artists with this name, including: 
1) Ars Nova was an American psychedelic/progressive rock band that performed and recorded from 1967 to 1969. 
2) Ars Nova is a Japanese progressive rock band. 
3) Ars Nova is a Polish early music instrumental ensemble founded in Warsaw in 1981. 
4) Ars Nova is a power metal band from Barcelona, Spain. 
5) Ars Nova was a 60s French instrumental ensemble. 
6) Ars Nova was electronica/indie/experimental artist. 

1)  Ars Nova was an American psychedelic/progressive rock band that performed and recorded from 1967 to 1969.
The original core of the group comprised two former students from Mannes College in New York City - Wyatt Day (guitar, keyboards, vocals), who wrote or co-wrote most of the band's songs, and Jon Pierson (trombone, vocals).
They recorded two albums. The first was a 1968 self-titled album for the Elektra label, on which the personnel comprised Day, Pierson, Maury Baker (organ, percussion), Giovanni Papalia (lead guitar), Bill Folwell (trumpet, bass, vocals), and Jonathan Raskin (bass, guitar, vocals). The band was signed to Elektra by Paul A. Rothchild, who produced their self-titled album in Los Angeles, with additional songwriting by Greg Copeland and released in April 1968. However, the band split up after a performance supporting The Doors at the Fillmore East in mid-1968, about the same time as they were hyped with a profile in Life magazine. Day and Pierson then formed a new version of the band, with guitarist Sam Brown, trumpeter Jimmy Owens, bassist Art Koenig, keyboardist Warren Bernhardt and drummer Joe Hunt. They recorded a second album, Sunshine & Shadows, which was released on Atlantic in 1969. 

2) Ars Nova is a Japanese progressive rock band. The current members are Keiko Kumagai (keyboards), Shinko "Panky" Shibata (bass guitar), Hazime (drums) and Satoshi Handa (guitar).
The band's music features keyboards heavily—this was particularly true between 1998 and 2003 when the band had two keyboard players. Common sounds include the ubiquitous Hammond organ, as well as more recent digital sounds. Almost all of their music is instrumental.
The band's musical influences are ELP, Goblin, PFM, Rick Wakeman, Balletto di Bronzo and classical music. 
Keiko Kumagai, the keyboardist, writes all the band's compositions. She has played on the Ayreon album Universal Migrator part two: Flight of the Migrator. This band has been for a long time an all-female band, a seldom case in the world of progressive rock.
Discography: 
1992 : Fear and Anxiety
1994 : Transi
1996 : The Goddess of Darkness
1997 : The Six Singular Impressions (compilation)
1998 : The Book of the Dead
2001 : Android Domina
2001 : Lacrimaria
2003 : Biogenesis Project
2005 : Force for the Fourth -Chrysalis-
2009 : Seventh Hell

3) Ars Nova is a Polish early music instrumental ensemble founded in Warsaw in 1981. 
Members:
Małgorzata Feldgebel — fiddle
Joanna Nogal — fiddle
Marcin Zalewski — lute, viola da gamba
Paweł Zalewski — viola da gamba
Krzysztof Owczynik — flute, cornamuse, kornet, voice
Jacek Urbaniak — flute, cornamuse, pomort
Mirosław Feldgebel — harp

4) Ars Nova is a power metal band from Barcelona, Spain. 
Lineup:
Daniel Alonso - Guitar
Carlos Sierra - Guitar
Juan Martínez “Juanito” - Bass
Alex Vijande - Vocals
Jabi Suárez - Drums

5) Ars Nova was a 60s French instrumental ensemble. 

6) Ars Nova was electronica/indie/experimental artist.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ars+Nova">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.