ArseA, formed in 2006. The members of ArseA, who had all come to the band following various experiences with other groups, immediately decided to begin writing their own songs.
The first successes, arriving in September 2007 with the participation of the band at theMusic Village, an event that allows a select band throughout Italy to spend seven days incontact with those that are the reality of Italian music today. In 2007, guitarist Simone was forced to leave the group for work reasons and, after a month of searching, he was replaced by Alessio Di Clementi.

In July 2008, ArseA was chosen from among over 300 Italian bands to represent Italy at one of the largest metal festivals in Europe, METALCAMP, held in Tolmin, Slovenia. 
September 2008, the band played outside Rome at the concert of Brutal Truth + Cripple Bastard.
In December 2008, ArseA performed abroad again, this time in Budapest, at Nu Metal Community Vol. 2 where they were very well-received.

2009 got off to a good start, with three great bookings in January alone. ArseA’s first live show of the year was at the Palarockness in Genzano di Roma, just outside the capital, on 25.01.09, where they played alongside other supporting bands. On 31.01.09 they played at Palarockness yet again, this time as support band to O.D. SAXON during their Italian tour, with whom they played again at SONAR in Colle di Val d’Elsa in the province of Siena on 01.02.09.
In February, 2009 ArseA were also taken on by another major agency, Alkemist Fanatix Europe. 
. In April 2009, the band finally found the long-awaited last member of its line-up, Ivan Fusco who, on keyboards and synth, added the final element to the band’s already tight sound; unfortunately it will have a very short stay in the band, because for business reasons will be forced to move in the other side of the nation.

In 2010 the band returned to tread the stages in Europe: two concerts in Amsterdam inApril and July, the participation in the prestigious European festival Magic Circle Festival IV° edition, where sees the bill bands like Manowar, Kamelot, Virgin Steele, Arch Enemy, ecc..

In 2011 is a new line-up change: at the voice, instead of Alessandro D'Arcangeli, Matthew Peluffo joined the band. After 2 years, back in the band Ivan Fusco on keyboards and synths. Also in this year, Arsea begin work on the new album. In 2012 the band returned to Metalcamp in Slovenia for the ninth edition, with the new line-up and the new album! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ArseA">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.