Many artists is called Arsonist:

1.) The first one is from Lund, Sweden. They follow in the footsteps of brutal death metal-bands like Cannibal Corpse and Suffocation and has been described as a brillant mix between fast, technical death metal and the more old-school florida sound. Although the group is still young (started in early 2003), the members are no newcomers to metal. Jon, Stefan and Thomas used to play together in the death metal band Monolith (1998-2002) and Thomas and Kalle are also in Pandemonium (1997 to present), who recently released their second album The Autumn Enigma. Arsonists first demo, Cock Collector, was recorded in December of 2004 in Studio Köket by Calle Fäldt (Deranged) and is a five-track manifestation of fast and brutal, US-death metal. It has received positive reactions everywhere and great reviews in both Close-Up and Sweden Rock Magazine. During 2005 the Arsonist has played live frequently with well known bands such as Aborted, Insision, Visceral Bleeding, Regurgitate and Deranged. In January 2006 the time had come for a new studio session to record Therapy in Violence. A creation even more putrid and vile than its predecessor, consisting of three songs: Instruments of Torture, Divine Art of Killing and Sadistic Necrofile Bed-pleasures. In March 2007 Stefan and Jon quit, and they are currently looking for a bassplayer and a drumplayer.


2.) The second one is from Switzerland. Arsonist are playing Old-School Thrash Metal. The band was formed in winter 2005 after the split-up of the band "Ber Serkr". Since then they have released the Demo "Conflagration" in Dec. 2005 and played many concerts in Switzerland and Germany. There songs are about Life, Social and Metal. You can download some sample mp3's on their website Arsonist.ch and tune in.
The current Line-Up is as follows:

Mauri - Vocals
Tobi - Guitars
Andi - Guitars
Stämpf - Bass
Overlord - Drums


3.) Then there are also artist from Finland. Well known at synthpop and other groups like it.  Finnish Arsonist can be found from Mikseri.net

4.) There's also a Drum and Bass DJ from Mannheim, Germany named Arsonist.

5.) Also a Hardcore DJ from Sweden is called Arsonist who mainly produces Doomcore.

6.) Arsonist can also refer to the mexican crust metal band trio (Fabrizio, Salomon, Maick) from Mexico City. You can find them at Facebook (http://www.facebook.com/arsonist.crust) and Bandcamp (http://arsonist.bandcamp.com/). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Arsonist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.