Art In exile' play a diverse brand of 'Extreme gothic metal'. Unnerving, intense and violently emotional, combining elements of symphonic, progressive, industrial and avantgarde with melodic death metal and fronted by one womans uniquly distinctive harmonious and guttural vocals. .
Art in Exile formed in 2002, with Mel Bulian (vocals/guitar), Liv Sellick(Bass), Matt Redmond(Keys/guitar), and Tim Robinson(drums) The band entered the studio in Nov. 2006 to record their debut EP, quickly followed by the recruitment of Stuart Robinson on guitar. The independent release gained Art:In:Exile exposure both nationally with airplay on such shows such as Triple J’s ‘Full Metal Racket’ and Melbourne’s ‘Musically Incorrect’, and internationally with US Internet radio show ‘The Darkside’ and European website/radio station ‘Goth Metal World, following reviews in webzines such as Germany’s ‘Metal DE’, Australia’s ‘Metal Forge’ and ‘Ultimate Metal’, and street magazines ‘Rip It Up’ and ‘dB’. 

The band played their first show in July 2006 at Fowler’s Live in support of the Melbourne glam act ‘The Dead Things’, followed quickly by a successful show supporting emerging progressive black metal band ‘Ne Obliviscaris’. Art:In:Exile then returned to the live circuit in early 2007 to play The Australia Day Metalfest at the Lizard Lounge with ‘Stargazer’ and Melbourne’s ‘Veil Of Anguish’ among others, and then made an immediate impact with the Official Launch of their EP at the Enigma Bar in February 2007.

Shortly after supporting goth/industrial ‘Ice Cocoon’ in April the same year, bassist Liv Sellick announced her departure from the band and was replaced by Leni Benton, an experienced metal musician in her own right. Finally, after a shock decision to leave his main band, Rocco De Maria of Adelaide’s death-grind outfit ‘omnium’, joined the ranks not only to allow Mel to concentrate fully on her vocal duties, but to help extend the possibilties of the growing guitar influence on the music.

In a major coup for the band’s international profile, they negotiated an international distribution contract on UK label Casket Music. With promotion from Casket, and widespread distribution with their partner Plastichead, Art:In:Exile re-released their debut EP in a repackaged format in Europe and the US. Now with their definitive line-up in place, a developing repertoire of live material, and label distribution & promotion, Art:In:Exile, in Nov 2009, released their first full-length album ‘Aeon Somnia’. This ten track opus promises to be a major step in their career, demonstrating their most mature work to date. This is proving to be a productive year for this Australian act. 

*Taken from their myspace page http://www.myspace.com/artinexile
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Art+in+Exile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.