What do you get when you mix brutal grinding death metal with industrial and electronics? You get Art 238 from Cherbourg, France. The band was formed in late 2000 by bassist and vocalist Morg, and guitarist Psychotenia. Preferring to go by anonymous nicknames, and wearing costumes in photos and on stage, they would be the main stays of the group, with other members joining as necessary. They would perform their first live shows with artists such as Dawn of Sorrow, Orion, and Horde of Zombie. Ex Drangsalymir guitarist Ienedegouez would join the band for Art 238’s first self produced demo, which was entitled The irradiated mutants from nuclear hell". This would be released in September of 2002, along with 2 tracks for the “A l`ouest 2” metal compilation. In 2003, they would perform at the metal festival of the same name, sharing the stage with various local and national acts from the area. In August, Ienedegouez would part ways with the band, and be replaced by Phage from Dawn of Sorrow, along with various other members at different times. In 2004 a new song was recorded by Art 238 for the “Pur Jus” compilation. At this point, Phage and the other members of the band parted ways, leaving Morg and Psychotenia to keep Art 238 alive, and evolve their music. They didn’t let personnel issues drag them down however, as they quickly released another 3 song demo entitled "Guaranteeing peace or prophet of war?". In 2006 the group recorded a split with “A Kodak Moment”, brought on drummer/sampler Dr Isotope, and were taken interest in and signed by Open Grave Records.

Art 238 plays brutal grindcore/death metal, which with the addition of industrial and electronic ambiences, and combined with their mysterious demeanor of appearance, makes a very refreshing and original addition to Open Grave Records. The music is apocolyptic, brutal, and may leave you with whiplash from banging your head too hard. Their debut album is entitled “Empire of the Atom : A Scienterrific Tale”, and is available now on Open Grave Records.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Art+238">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.