I started an instrumental rock project with the name of ‘Haven’ all alone in 2003. Nature and emotions were the main source of my inspiration. In the first few years, I made four albums and two singles, however, only a smaller circle of people knew about it. Finishing my second album called ‘Gondolatok’ (‘Thoughts’); I decided to change the name of my project to ‘Art of Haven’.

I achieved the first breakthrough with my album called ‘Ébredés’ (‘Awakening’) in 2009, in the same year I could win several new fans for Art of Haven. In summer, Ágoston Gabrieli bassist and Tamás Berki drummer joined me. On our concerts, we performed the songs of well-known artists, like Joe Satriani or John Petrucci, just to mention a few. This was the moment, when we decided to continue our work in Art of Haven with this formation, but from now on as a band.

Having a few concerts behind our back, we released our single called ‘Nap és Föld’ (‘Sun and Earth’) in spring, 2010, that, at the same time, meant our first appearance in the Hungarian national print press. Bringing new colors to the band, Judit Répásy joined us as a vocalist in summer and Viktor Varga as a rhythm guitarist in autumn.

We recorded our second single called ’Where Memories Fade’ in 2011. It was finished in the beginning of July and we presented it to the public with two concerts in Budapest. The earlier concept with instrumental songs and covers has been changing into something new. Now we concentrate on our own songs, and the ones without lyrics have also faded away. We started our brand new website this autumn, as well as the work on the concept of the new album. At the end of year, we said goodbye to our bassist, Ágoston Gabrieli, and greeted a new member, Csaba Bögöly.

After a short collaboration Csaba Bögöly decided to left the band. Until the new bassplayer’s arrival, we have spent most of our free time to focusing on the new songs-  We have recorded a new Ep, titled „A csend szava” in english „Words of silence”. On this album there are three tracks, and one of them is a special instrumental song named „Obscurity”..You can watch a videoclip for this song too. There’s also an extra acoustic version from the title song „A csend szava” .

It’s slowly ten years ago that the first Haven song saw the daylight, and so we decided to re-record and modernize Art of Haven's top ten instrumental songs. This special edition  collection album  is titled "Ten Years in Haven,". The first five songs have already appeared on the Internet this year, and we plan to publish the whole disc itself in 2013.
At the end of the year 2012 we have found our new bassplayer „Robert Marlok”, so we could begin to compile our 2013 concert program.

Ákos Fazekas – Lead guitarist

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Art+Of+Haven">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.