Art Inferno was a Melodic Black Metal band from Sicily, Italy. They were previously known as Journey Through The Dark and reformed with newer lineups in the gloomy Autumn of 1993. 

They formed with their initial guitarist Magister Acheron, along with Nerio for vocals and Martyrium Grinder on the drums; they are the only members surviving to the original line-up, of the five total members, including as special- guest for more than a year. The  new singer and bass player were from another well-known Italian band: Glacial Fear. Eventually they hired a sixth member, who debuted as a keyboarder.
 
In January 1995 the band revolutionized the line-up, reducing itself from six members to four, and from there they changed to a more smooth, stylistic approach towards more melodic and gloomier sonority. And they left their more brutal approach. 

In March 1995 they released their first "Screams of Sirens", which achieved a substance of the dark Death/Black sound, that they striven for. The album has received very good responses from magazines and fan reviews and brought the attention of several underground labels. It eventually took part to various compilations, the most important of which is the CD-compilation "Dawn of Gods Vol.1" on Metal Horse Prod.

After meeting different labels, they concluded to sign with Nosferatu Records, to release a mini-CD called "...Among secrets", which was released on February 1997. It contained an original mix of death/black metal with dark and melodic influences. The responses was unanimously excellent and Art Inferno were now certain of their fame. After this release the band played some live-shows around Italy.

At the end of 1997 Art Inferno became a trio because, the keyboardist: Magister had done some crime and could no longer be apart of the band, for legal reasons. Acheron (guitar/keyboard), Nerio (bass/vocals), Martyrium Grinder (drum), were the remaining members. 

At the end of 1998 a deal was signed with the most important and active Italian label "Scarlet", in which they would release their full length album. Then, in 1999 it was released and called "Abyssus Abyssum Invocat". 

From a fan perspective, "Abyssus Abyssum Invocat" was a supreme gate to the most nightmarish dimensions. The wonderful album artwork already indicates that this looks like something captivating to a general Metal audience. 

The 56 minute album comes with a superb production and it mirrors themes such as seeds of horror, despair, cruelty, majesty, poetry and drama. It includes ten cursed hymns, where Black Metal mercilessly is enriched by a touch of Classical music, to justify their Symphonic/Melodic sound. 

The general outcome of the album is a morbid sound, which perverse' an esoteric style of Melodic Black Metal, in addition to a Teutonic Thrash aggressiveness, in order to create a substantial masterpiece of Melodic Esoteric extreme Art!

Abyssus Abyssum Invocat's concept is based off of majestic chambers of horror and mysteries and was acclaimed from several European magazines as Symphonic/Melodic Black Metal at its best! 

A new guitarist, Styge, and a new keyboardist, Gorgia, joined the band after the release of "Abyssus Abyssum Invocat", and actually the band is plannig some gigs around Italy and at the same time is composing new stuff for the next album, something really spectral and hallucinated... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Art+Inferno">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.