Art of Fighting is an indie rock band from Melbourne, Australia.

The band formed in 1995 as a duo, with Ollie Browne playing guitar and Peggy Frew on bass, with both taking turns on vocals. The couple were also in a romantic relationship at this time, though they were to split amicably later.

They were joined six months later by drummer Cameron Grant, and over the following two years released two demo tapes, the first self-titled and the second named The Angry Man. Two of the tracks from the latter, "The Chorus is Suffering" and 'You and Me on Mars" were included on the Wonder From A Quarter Acre compilation put out by Au Go Go in 1998.

In 1997, the trio began recording The Very Strange Year. During touring for this EP but before its release, Ollie Browne's brother, Miles Browne, joined the group playing guitar and trumpet. The Very Strange Year was released on Half a Cow at the end of 1998.

In the middle of 1999 the foursome began recording another EP for Half a Cow, Empty Nights, which was released in November of that year. Cameron Grant left the band in late 2000, being replaced on drums by Marty Brown (also of Sodastream).

Following a move to Trifekta Records, in 2001 the band recorded their debut full-length album, Wires. The album was successful and went on to win an ARIA award for Best Alternative Release, beating the more high-profile You Am I, Something for Kate and Magic Dirt. Not expecting to win, they were famously told of their prize while packing up after a gig in Germany, on their first European tour.

The success of the album not only locally but also internationally - with releases in the USA, Japan, Germany and Taiwan - led to a sustained period of touring. This successful time was followed by a turbulent 2003, when the long-term romantic relationship between Ollie Browne and Peggy Frew ended, amongst other variously momentous events.

Their second album, Second Storey, was released in 2004, once again engendering a burst of touring both local and international. In a coup for the band, Bella Union released the album in the UK and Europe.

At the end of 2006, the release of first single "Eastbound" preceded a forthcoming album titled Runaways released on March the 10th in Australia, on Remote Control In April 2007 the band played at All Tomorrow's Parties (curated by The Dirty Three) in Minehead UK, which was followed by two live shows in Tokyo.

In 2008 the band scored an original soundtrack for the Australian film Ten Empty. 2010 saw Ollie create a new group called Parallel Lions. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Art+of+Fighting">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.