He self-taught playing guitar at the age of 17 and was first influenced by Ritchie Blackmore, Michael Schenker, Edward Van Halen, Yngwie Malmsteen e Steve Morse and by groups as Deep Purple, Rainbow, Loudness, Rush and Dixie Dregs. He learned playing the instrument by listening and following the solo on his friend’s lent records Burn e Made in Japan dei Deep Purple. At the age of 21 he participated at the Hallowen’s compilation Metallo. In that period all specialized presses described him as one of the few Axe-man who could compete with the overseas axes, acclaiming him as one of the best Italian guitarist . His style and techniques were also appreciated by Los Angeles’ magazines. He participated at Foxy Lady’s compilation Nightpieces 4 of Dracma Records and his technical capabilities became well known also in foreign countries. When he played in Slovenia, Germany, England he always collected favourable reviews, appreciated by Italian and even by US presses. There was a period he played many concerts in Italy and did a tour in Lettonia with the Padova’s group La Rox , and in those occasions he was acclaimed by folks as a rock star. He did various studio’s cooperation as session-man. In November ‘97 he played together with American guitarist Vinnie Moore in one of his clinics at the Biasin Musical Instrument Of Azzano Decimo (PN). In June ‘98 Arthur Falcone’s group played as support at the Deep Purple’s concert at the Grezar Stadium of Trieste. The same year he made a contract with the Roman Virtuoso Records that published his first soloist CD, recorded in cooperation with his brother Alex playing keyboards, Camillo Colleluori playing drums, Nataniele Flaming playing bass and Domine’s voice Morby. The work was done with European distribution license first that was soon extended at world level : Argentina, Japan, Australia. In 1999 the Japanese Hard Rock magazine placed his CD at the 25th position of the world’s best hits. He stipulated a contract with De Salvo Music Strings and played at the Deep Purple Day together with the legendary battery man Ian Paice dell, milestone of the homonymous historical Band. On November 9, 2001 he and his band supported the great star John Lawton, the English singer who was essential part of the prestigious group of the Uriah Heep. On June 2002 he played with the best Italian guitarist, Andrea Braido (Vasco Rossi, Mina, Celentano, Ramazzotti, Frank Gambale) in occasion of one of his seminars at the Motoring Club (today’s Rock Club) of Ronchi dei Legionari (GO). On march 8, 2003 he played as opening in Brazilian guitarist Kiko Lourairo’s (Angra group) clinics at the Casa Musica of Trieste. The seminar ended with an acclaimed Jam-session between the two musicians. Contemporaneously with many recent national tours and clinics , Arthur Falcone is working on his second CD, supported by the new group named Arthur Falcone Stargazer . From April 2004 he was on with the best guitarists of Triveneto , touring all the North of Italy, Slovenia and Croatia. The project was organized by the Road House agency and named The Guitar Strings. At present Arthur is guitar teacher in The House of Music at the School of Trieste and occasionally at the Roland School of Gorizia. Rhapsody’s Luca Turilli was one of his students. He has also done some rock and heavy metal seminars in Triveneto ad other Italian regions. After a past of over six hundreds concerts and while preparing his CD, he keeps on doing various live concerts. Arthur works also as session man for studio and live. Here are some of the bands Arthur played with : Devil’s Claws Halloween Foxy Lady La Rox Stargazer Among the various artists, Arthur played in may occasions and clinics also together with : Andrea braido Kiko Loureiro Ian Paice Vinnie Moore Luca Turilli (Rhapsody of Fire).  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/arthur+falcone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.