Artizan [artez'n]: skilled craftsman; creator 

Artizan is a five piece melodic metal band from Jacksonville, Florida. 

Founded by drummer Ty Tammeus in 2008, Artizan crafts powerful, melodic metal. Dynamic song structure, dominant rhythms and melodic hooks are key ingredients to the Artizan formula. Singer Tom Braden's vocals have been described by Metal Maniacs magazine as "pure and towering." His distinctive tone, strength and range are fundamental elements that personify the Artizan sound. Hit Parader describes Tom as "a combination of Geoff Tate and John Arch." Ty Tammeus is famous for his intense drumming. He applies a creative energy and is the driving impetus of Artizan. Ty has garnered favorable reviews in numerous publications including Modern Drummer and Metal Maniacs. Guitarists' Shamus McConney and Bill Staley compliment one another with stomping rhythms and transcending harmonies. Churning riffs, melodic phrases and searing solos are woven throughout the tapestry of Artizan. Jon Jennings provides the low end rhythms with his mastery of the bass guitar. 

Dangerdog.com states "Artizan's debut EP is substantial evidence that this band is onto something very good. The work is blessed by well-crafted compositions which blend melodic hooks with developed, but not overbearingly complex, progressive arrangements. Each of the three songs quickly piques your interest and pulls you in. Braden's vocals may be the highlight here as he soars with a strength uncommon in most modern metal vocals. Equally impressive is the vigorous fret work which, at times, mimics old school classic metal yet with renewed energy and passion. This is solid stuff: an easy and entertaining listen for all melodic metal fans, yet with enough twists to keep prog fans happy. Any label worth its melodic heavy metal salt should hook up with Artizan at the first opportunity." 

Early 2010 Artizan signed a management/booking deal with Intromental Management and shortly after signed a Worldwide deal with German-based record label Pure Steel Records in order to release the debut album "Curse Of The Artizan" April 2011, and effectively market the group for worldwide success. 

"Curse Of The Artizan" consistently continues the high class of the progressive, pathos-drenched and extremely melodic US Metal-sound. The three songs from the EP ("Fire", "Game Within A Game" and "Rise") were also taken up once again and new pieces were added, all of which uphold the high level the fans have come to expect from ARTIZAN. In addition to that, the 10-minute title-song reveals in its lyrics what "Artizan" is all about. 

From time to time memories of classic Heavy Metal bands like older Savatage, Judas Priest, or - especially in relation to the great twin-guitar-leads - Iron Maiden awake, but still the five musicians have a completely unique sound, as it has been played by no other band before. Sometimes very rampant passages are offered, then again there are some simple, yet striking songs, which have a real sing-a-long-character. The clear, yet powerful voice of the former Leviathan-singer Tom Braden also showcases the unique aspect of ARTIZAN, whilst building upon the progressive elements of his and drummer Ty Tammeus' former band very convincingly. 

On the top of that the cover was done by fantasy-artist Marc Sasso, who also was responsible for covers from Dio and Halford. As you can imagine – this is a one-of-a-kind cover artwork, a painting depicting the "Artizan" in all of his might. 

ARTIZAN take the balancing act between honest heaviness and great melodies: And they create that with a finesse that is second to none!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Artizan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.