"Artlantica" is a new Power Metal band from the United States featuring Roger Staffelbach, John West, Mistheria and John Macaluso.

United States power metal acts are so few and far between that when a powerful release hits the metal scene, it is bound to get some attention. Enter, Artlantica. The name alone should strike excitement and curiosity into the hearts of power metal fans everywhere. Featuring quite seasoned members, performing with some of heavy metal’s greatest, this band is highly unlikely to disappoint. The band is composed of John West (ex-Lynch Mob, ex-Artension), Roger Staffelbach (Angel of Eden, ex-Artension), Mistheria (Angel of Eden, Rob Rock), and John Macaluso (ex-Jorn, ex-Yngwie Malmsteen) amongst many other acts and projects, these guys are a solid line-up and have managed to produce some wonderfully original US Power metal in their debut album Across the Seven Seas.

If the curious reader is wondering what makes US power metal different from “other” power metal, it is typically found the USPM is more raw, with less focus on keyboards or orchestration. The reason behind that is up for debate, however it is the more frequently found sound for US bands as opposed to the heavily orchestrated European scene. This can either lead to an absolutely horrible album, or a great example of how heavy power metal can actually be. Across the Seven Seas is exactly that. It is strong, heavy, and raw, but with great touches of keyboards and effects that is likely to win over the hearts of heavy metal and power metal fans everywhere.

“2012” kicks off the album with relentless drum and guitar licks, great bass lines, and small keyboard touches that really help drive the melodies in the song. The vocals are strong and soaring and when they are layered throughout the chorus can sound quite ethereal while being quite eerie at the same time. The haunting echo of the vocals is such a perfect element for the music, and is found quite often throughout the album. The only moment on the album that didn’t sit well is the ballad “Ode to My Angel”. I understand that most bands, especially in this genre, are expected to have some spectacularly cheesy and gooey ballad. This is a little too extreme for me however, and at moments seems like a radio friendly hit one of the boy bands in the 90′s would have released. It’s beautifully orchestrated with piano and keyboard effects behind gorgeous clean vocals, it’s just the lyrics that are a bit much.

Bringing the album back to it’s heavy roots are tracks like “Demon in My Mind” and “Return of the Pharaoh” (an instrumental) which are both very classic sounding metal tunes. The guitar and bass lines are particularly strong with well matched drums behind. And finally, “Nightmare Life”, probably the most solid power metal track on the album, features especially strong vocal style and guitar work that entwine perfectly in the keyboard lines and end the album on a true high note.

On a side note, a rather large selling point to the album is that it features Steve Digiorgio (ex-Death, Artension), Dani Loble (Helloween), and Chris Caffery (Savatage, TSO) on select tracks and was mixed and mastered by well known Tommy Newton’s Area 51 Studios (Helloween, Gamma Ray). Across the Seven Seas is a great debut album that any self-respecting power metal fan should own. All of this is a great recipe that certainly delivers. I highly recommend it!

Artlantica are:

John West – Vocals
Roger Staffelbach – Guitars
Mistheria – Keyboards
John Macaluso – Drums

Guests:
Steve Digiorgio – Bass
Dani Löble – Drums
Chris Caffery – Guitars <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Artlantica">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.