About ARUSPEX
In the fall of 2000 Aruspex was born with Nate on guitar, Nick on guitar and drum programming, Andrew on bass, and Joel Serrao on vocals. Unfortunately, Joel left the band after only a few short months so Andrew took over his position as vocalist. Over the course of the next year the material for the "Revelations" Demo was written and was finally recorded in late 2001. After completing the recording Russell Hann (ex-Pronounced Dead) was recruited to fill the drum position. Over the course of the next couple of years Aruspex performed many live shows throughout the state of Florida with bands such as Amon Amarth. Diabolic, Pessimist, Dying Fetus, Into Eternity, Dark Faith, Paths of Possession, and many others. During May of 2003 the "Slaughter of Christianity" Demo was recorded at Diet of Worms studios with Juan "Punchy" Gonzales (Morbid Angel, Diabolic, Terrorizer). Unfortunately after the recording was finished the band parted ways to pursue other musical projects. Nate went on to join the infamous outfit, Equinox (www.myspace.com/equinoxmetal) while Nick and Andrew pursued the completion of compositions for Nick's solo project (www.myspace.com/nickbeato).

In 2006 the band attempted to reform with Gabriel Lewandowski (Equinox, ex-Naphobia, Acheron and Hellwitch) on drums due to Russell joining the military and being unavailable. Unfortunately a steady schedule was unable to be maintained with Gabriel and the band split up again due to the inability to find a replacement behind the kit. During the time following this split Nate and Andrew joined forces with Ed Makowske and Gabriel to form Serpent Son, which did not last very long, which again was due to the inability to maintain a steady rehearsal schedule with Gabriel.

In 2007 the time had come again to resurrect the beast known as Aruspex, but with a new, more aggressive style along with new members Mike Radford (ex-Nefaustium, Mindscar) and Ed Makowske (ex-Hatred Unleashed, Impurity, Serpent Son). Upon their return the band has played many shows including one with NILE/CTHONIC this past summer and has shared the stage with many of the areas top bands.

http://profile.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=user.viewprofile&friendID=184845322 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aruspex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.