Create a unique sound by mixing elements of every genre that influences each member. This combined with their undeniable individual talents, created a style that is bold, intense, technical & defiantly unique. Hailing from Lansing, MI look for As Empire Decay to deliver their brand of metal to your town next!!!

Members: Rick Titus - Lead Vocals, Toby Wright - Guitar/Vocals, Theron Jones - Drums/Vocals, Jason Diffenbaugh - Guitar, Dustin Santana - Bass

History 

      As Empires Decay is a metal band from the state of Michigan. This band was formed in 2009 by bass player Dustin Santana, a known bass player in his home town of Lansing, MI. He asked drummer and friend Theron Jones to start a new project with him. Having grown up and shared the stage with each other countless times over the years. Shortly after, Dustin found guitarist Jason Diffenbaugh's home videos on Youtube.com. Impressed by Jason's skills they had him try out. Needless to say, he was quickly asked to join. A few months after many different tryouts for an additional guitarist they got a reply on Myspace.com from guitarist Toby Wright. As the band was looking for members over the age of 18 they had previously passed over Toby's classified ad. However, Toby contacted the band and requested to try out. The new band decided to give him a shot. In the middle of the first tryout they offered Toby the open guitar position. This band was almost complete, except for a vocalist. After searching through countless vocalists and a month of try outs they got a response from an ad they had created on Craigslist.com. It was from vocalist Rick Titus, formerly of Detroit's All Else Fails. Rick was recommended to the band by a member of Metal Blade recording artist's Battlecross ( then an up and coming Michigan band & longtime friends of Rick's). After having him tryout they offered him the position and within a few months later they started playing shows.

Over the years they have shared the stage with bands such as Devildriver, Kittie, Mushroomhead, Soulfly, Cattle Decapitation, Prong, Mutiny Within, Kataklysm, Battlecross and many more. In October of 2010 they released their EP titled "Everything But Nothing" which landed them plays not only throughout the states but in a few other countries as well. In the summer of 2011, As Empires Decay recorded their first full length album release in Ohio at Vibe studios, with studio engineer John Burke of the band "Forever In Terror". On November 10th, 2011 a few tracks from the album were played on 88.9 the Impact, a radio station out of East Lansing, MI. The band also did a live interview about their upcoming CD release. On National "Metal Day", 11-11-11 As Empires Decay released the album entitled "The Palpability of Human Suffering", which offers a different taste of metal on every track. From melody to brutality & everything in between, As Empires Decay strives to add something for every kind of “metal head” to enjoy. Be prepared to have your face melted by the heaviness & then have it restored by their harmony. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/As+Empires+Decay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.