"FROM TRAGEDY"  clearly a winner:

Los Angeles, CA The song Words Unclear, from As Forever Fades is indisputably a hit in the making, with ravenous metal fans devouring the song and hungering for more. The good news is, there is more. Words Unclear is the flagship single from the band's new EP of the same name.

Words Unclear is an explosive metal track as drenched in melody as it is in aggression. Transcending categorical limitations, As Forever Fades displays a knack for the seamless grafting together of different streams of heavy music thought. Metalcore, thrash, hardcore and more blast together in a volatile musical reaction that puts mushroom clouds to shame.

Thematically, the song is a scathing peeling apart of the emotional turmoil that springs from a screwed-up relationship and how a bad one can drive you absolutely nuts, to quote As Forever Fades bassist Jon. The title points to the confusion every human encounters from day to day in intimate relationships and via other personal experiences.

The song was tapped as the EP's single because, explains Jon, "We felt it had the best combination of musical elements that we like in metal. It's got great attitude, breakdowns, lyrics, solos and it blends them all together beautifully. The breakdowns, in particular, are staples in the sound of As Forever Fades. It's a very important element in our music."

As Forever Fades was forged in late 2006, enduring several lineup changes as it formed and found its identity. Now, the lineup features founding members Jeremy (vocals) and Seth (guitar), plus Ryan (drums) and Jon.

"We've been truckin' ever since," says Jon. The desire to make good metal music brought us together and with only one member being over 20 years old, we feel like the sky is the limit for us!"

Jon says that the band's drive to succeed is tied to its devotion to quality. The group strives to make each song an evolution from the last, improving and growing with each creative endeavor. Originality is a central concern.

As Forever Fades has played with a number of national acts, including Whitechapel, Through the Eyes of the Dead, Impending Doom, Carnifex, For Today, Arsonists Get All The Girls, Between the Buried and Me, The Acacia Strain and more. The band is entirely a DIY act and records its music at Jon's JYM Studios in Evansville, Indiana. He recorded, mixed and mastered all the tracks. Ryan was the designer of the Words Unclear artwork.

"We're proud to be able to say we can do those things and will continue to do so in the future," asserts Jon.

As Forever Fades is currently working with A&R Select, the premier A&R firm based out of Los Angeles, CA. More information is available by visiting www.myspace.com/asforeverfades
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/As+Forever+Fades">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.