As Sick As Us is a completely different sounding melodic death metal band from North Carolina.  ASAU is creating new rhythms & sounds on the progressive metal scene that share a common denominator; they produce a visceral response in people.

Their style has everything from hard rock to death metal flowing through it. Like a piece of stranded rope ASAU twists influences into their music from the past, such as Black Sabbath, to the new bands on the scene now like Trivium, White Chapel, and Black Dahlia Murder to name a few.  The resulting hybrid sound gives you an eclectic mix that's a refreshing break from the pack. 

AS Sick As Us was formed in 2008 by the brothers Zack and Zane Oskins. The group started like most bands do- young friends with a lot of energy, a drum set, guitars, amps and a garage. Our first gig was at a place called The Live Space, a proverbial hole-in-the-wall started by a friend. They were then offered a show at a new venue called The Boiler Room, which was just getting off the ground in downtown Asheville.

After several gigs the word was out that a new band with a different sound & tight playing was making a name for itself.  As Sick As Us is now grabbing LOTS of attention across the eastern U.S. and their much anticipated CD is set for release in october 2009.

As Sick As Us regularly plays at premier venues such as Ground Zero, Green Street Club, The Somewhere Else Tavern, The New Brookland Tavern, The Handlebar, The Orange Peel and a host of others. ASAU attracts a large age span of fans who like a wide spread of genres. Our music invokes a host of reactions from crowds- everything from mosh-pits to people nodding their heads in approval with wide eyes and big grins. The reactions are spontaneous and sincere from our listeners when they play. Visit their web sites and check them out. Try them out... You'll like it too! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/As+Sick+As+Us">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.