As-Sahar, the pioneers of Malay-oriented Black Metal, started as a nameless thrash metal outfit in 1987. The first line-up consisted of Malik Hanael  and Sam Uriel, joined by Hanael's younger brother One Barchiel.

During their first years the young band kept to their rehearsal room, playing covers of their heroes like Sodom, Kreator, Destruction, Poison (ger), Mercyful Fate, Venom, Hallows Eve, Postmortem & Fantom Warior. In time they started to write songs of their own too, but things like the compulsory National Service kept the band from recording a proper release until 1993 when a two song promo was released in July. The style, influenced by the Nordic black metal bands of the time, especially Burzum, Darkthrone and other Norwegians, had developed from the thrash roots to melodic/atmospheric black metal. This tape got a good response and encouraged the band to release another tape, the "Primitively Eastern Winds" demo, in September. The demo sold almost 700 copies worldwide and was later re-released by Nebiula Productions.

In 1994 As-Sahar recorded a demo tape titled Devillation Masters, more aggressive material influenced by the band's thrash metal roots, but decided not to release it, instead withdrawing to seek their identity in order to create something more original. This lead to the 1995 release of the cassette EP "Santau", mixing their black metal style with traditional Malay melodies and a strong concept of Malay-Archipelago occult themes. This nationalistic statement gained a massive local following after Nebiula licenced the tape for Malaysian market and released it with new covers and name "Meditation Embun Pagi". Several younger bands started following As-Sahar's path of Malay-oriented black metal. At this point Sam Uriel had to leave the band due to other commitments, but the band found a new drummer in Iblyss, well-known from his work in both Abhorer and Impiety. The new line-up first recorded two songs for the Storm of Nebiula compilation and then the debut full-lenght album "Phenomistik", released by Nebiula Productions in 1996. The album and the following many live performances strenghtened the band's already great Malaysian following. Next release was a split "Beyond Firmament" with Hayagrivain, a band from Ipoh, Malaysia playing "Dark Shadow Metal". This 1998 tape was released by Memories Records, chosen as a neutral label.

In 1999 Iblyss was asked to leave the band and they decided to use session drummers in the future, recruiting Fauzzt (known from several local bands like Kibosh Sybil Kismet & Hail) to help with the next recordings. Nebiula Productions released a CD "Ekstasi Tektonis" compiling material from "Santau" and "Phenomistik" while the band was finishing the next album. The second album "Baku Karama" came as a shock to the fans as the style changed radically into a rock/heavy metal hybrid with folk influences. The band referred their new style as "E:Lust:Ronika Gothrock" prior to the release. Many of the old fans were less than enthusiastic of the change. However the album still sold well in the Malaysian market.

Malik Hanael left the band in 2001 to concentrate on his family. One Barchiel decided to continue As-Sahar on his own and recorded the "Intifada" album with the help of session members Jadam & Dark-E. The album was experimental in nature, combining the As-Sahar black metal style with electronica. However, this was much closer to the classic As-Sahar sound than "Baku Karama" had been and won back many fans alienated by the previous album. 2001 saw also Nebiula release a live tape "Bomohymns Okultika", recorded in 1998.

2002 Malik Hanael rejoined his brother and the two recruited Najasakthee from Hayagrivain to complete As-Sahar once again. This time the style took influences from the Swedish black metal bands like Naglfar, Dissection, Lord Belial & Unanimated. The trio recorded an EP "Al-Rischa" that conceptually dealt with astronomy and its connections. Unfortunately Najasakthee left after the recordings as the distance (the brothers in Singapore and he in Ipoh) prevented him being a full-time member. 2003 meant a break for the band as One Barchiel needed time for his family. Meanwhile Nebiula remastered and released the unreleased 1994 Devillation Masters demo and Malik busied himself with Istidraj and Sadiztik Impaler.

End of the year 2004 As-Sahar returned and recorded the fourth album Jaann, with Sam Uriel back as session drummer. This release paid homage to 3 Malaysian black metal bands Bazzah, Nebiras & Rator, following in their style of fast, raw and intense metal. After another relatively quiet period, a new drummer in the form of Nechbeyth's & Purbawisesa's Akhzareth was found in 2007. The band recorded a new album Tir that was released 11th November 2008, this time with lyrics in English and stylistically comparable to the 1995-1996 releases. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/As+Sahar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.