There are mutiple artists that use this name. 1. Irish Thrash Metallers , 2. Brutal Death Metal , 3. Czech Progress Metal Band, 4. Australian Metal Band, 5. United States Thrash Metal Band

1. Ascendancy Bio
Ascendancy was formed in the summer of 2005 with the intention of creating fresh and exciting thrash metal that’s heavy, fast and melodic, but still in the traditional vein of 80’s era thrash.

The members hail from the towns of Ballymoney, Coleraine and Dervock. The original line up consisted of Mark McAuley (drums), Kenny McFeeley (bass), Danny McMullan (rhythm guitar + backing vocals), Chris McLaughlin (vocals) and Harrison Reed (lead guitar). Musical differences in the band saw the departure of Harrison and the arrival of Andy Shields. With the line-up stronger than ever the band has been writing better songs and gigging more frequently around the local area. Recently Mark felt that he could no longer contribute to the band due to musical differences and other commitments and decided to leave. So until a permanent drummer is found, R! (ex-Illegiance, PHM, Deepkick, Nightmare Division, Ahriman) has kindly decided to fill in.

Current Line-Up
Danny
Chris
Kenny
Andy
R!


2. Ascendancy a.k.a Inner Ascendancy is a Turkish Metal band, was formed in 2007.

Eren Gültekin - Vocal
Batuhan Alpdoğan - Lead Guitar
Görkem Tüzün - Guitar
Erdem Irez - Bass
Tolga Şanlı - Drums


3. Ascendancy  is Progressive Metal band from Czech Republic formed in 2008 with 2 albums and an EP under their belt. The year 2014 saw the release of  The Amazing Ascendancy vs Count Illuminatus.

4. Ascendancy is a Australian metal band formed in 2007. 
Recently, they released an EP after two years recording, available at this link for free: 
http://dl.getdropbox.com/u/324723/Ascendancy%20EP.zip

Current members:
Vocals - Jon Prasida
Lead Guitar - Benjamin Funayama
Drums - Morgan Carter
Bass - Open!

5. Ascendancy is a United States Thrash Metal Band from California formed in 2009.
Recently released first full length album Pinnacle of Creation <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ascendancy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.