Ashen Mortality was a British musical band that was formed in early 1993 by Ian Arkley (ex-Seventh Angel) and Melanie Bolton. They recorded two demos, and two albums, as well as played many gigs in England, the Netherlands, and Germany. Featuring clean and growled male vocals, and female vocals, their music was heavy, slow to mid-paced, and influenced by medieval music, doom, death and goth. The band split in 2005, when Arkley went on to form My Silent Wake.

The original line-up was:

    * Ian Arkley (guitar & vocals);
    * Melanie Bolton (vocals & keyboard);
    * Tim Cooper (bass); and
    * Ben Jones (drums).

The first demo tape, Ashen Mortality, was recorded at The Wall, Birmingham, England from 9 - October 11, and engineered by Andy Wickett. The band's first gig was with Rez, during November 1993 in Salford, England. During 1994, Ashen Mortality played many gigs around the United Kingdom, including a show at Brixton Academy, London on May 14.

The second demo was recorded between 16 - July 18 at Attic Studios, shortly after which, Jones left the band. On August 24, Ashen Mortality played at the Greenbelt festival with stand-in drummer, Neal Harris. Harris also played with the band during the tour of Holland and Germany from 2 - September 29.

Three tracks from the second demo, "Separation", "Sleepless Remorse" and "Imprisoned" were remixed, and four new songs recorded in 1995 to form "Sleepless Remorse", the band's first album. Harris played drums on the new tracks, although Jones can be heard on the remixed demo songs. The album was recorded at Attic Studios (now closed), and was produced for a mere £400.

"Sleepless Remorse" was released in 1996 on Forsaken Records, set up by Bolton. Neil Shilvock joined the band on drums. Ashen Mortality played many gigs around England during the year, playing with bands, including: At The Gates, Serenade, Acrimony, and Hecate Enthroned.

After a mini-tour to support the release of "Sleepless Remorse" in 1997, Shilvock left the band, and George Aytoun stepped in to help out. Ashen Mortality played at the Greenbelt festival over the August bank holiday weekend.

Aytoun officially joined the band in 1998, and recorded "Your Caress". The album was recorded in two days, and mixed in one by Dan Sprigg at Dep International. The band used the same engineer and studio as "Cradle Of Filth".

The band started to play local gigs again in 1999, and the official website was constructed by Aytoun, and launched over the summer. Ashen Mortality played the Greenbelt festival at the beginning of August. The band obtained worldwide distribution for "Your Caress" through Plastic Head.

With the exception of a few local gigs, there was little band activity in 2000. Plans to record a third album faded away.

After several years of inactivity, the band emerged in 2004. Having recruited a new drummer, they begun rehearsing again, and played live gigs. Due to illness, Cooper was unavailable for the band's final appearances in Norway, and the United Kingdom. The last performances featured Andi Lee on bass, and drummer Jasen Whyte.

A double CD reissue of the two albums, remastered with extra tracks, was released in 2005. The band finally split, with the original band members going their separate ways. Ian subsequently formed "My Silent Wake" with ex-Ashen Mortality musicians Andi Lee and Jason Whyte, Century Sleeper with James Allin of Visionaire, and played in "The Other Window" with Alan Southorn.

In August 2006, Tim Cooper died of Leukemia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ashen+Mortality">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.