There are multiple groups named Ashes. 

1) Ashes are Polish black metal band based in Krakow, est. 2018. 

Discography:
2019 - Ashes (full-lenght)

Members
 - The Fall, drums (Medico Peste, Over the Voids..., Owls Woods Graves, Mgła [live])
 - Nefar - guitars, bass, keyboards (Medico Peste)
 - Vann - vocals (Only Sons, Outre, Fleshworld, Forge of Clouds)

2) Ashley Coulter (born April 26, 1983), better known by her stage name Ashes is a Canadian singer and the sixth-place finalist in the 2006 season of Canadian Idol. She was born and raised in Emeryville, Ontario (near Windsor), but currently lives in Toronto, Ontario.

3) Ashes was a Washington, DC-based post-hardcore band that featured Brian McTernan of Battery fame and Elena Ritchie on vocals. They existed in the early to mid 90s.  Ashes released two EPs on a now-defunct California label named Network Sound entitled Ashes and Hiding Places. A discography was released on McTernan's own label Salad Days called Wisconcin Avenue Tour. 

4) Ashes is three piece black metal band from the UK. Till this day, Ashes has released 2 demos : Blackened Wrath in '03 and Forest Funeral in '04 and two full lengths, under the title of "Hymns To A Grey Sky"(2005) and "Yggdrasil"(2007). Both were released by Supernal Music. In 2009, "Runeworks" was released on Wolfs Hook Records, which is now out of print, and now very hard to get hold of.
In 2010 Ashes released "Forest Psalms", a 3 track EP as a free download through Death To Music Productions. Ashes plays pagan black metal with some ambient elements. 
In April 2011, Ashes signed to Candlelight Records.

5) Ashes was a 60's folk-rock band from California who released a self-titled album in 1968 and a few singles, more or less in the same style of bands like Jefferson Airplane and The Byrds.

6) Ashes are/were a swedish Black/Death Metal-band. They released the album "Til Death Do Us Unite" via Necropolis Records in 1998.

7) Ashes  is the brainchild of Italian musician Eraldo Bernocchi. They currently have three releases. The first from the early '90s, Ashland, was essentially Eraldo solo. In 1996, the lineup expanded to include uber-musician Bill Laswell and Raiz, formerly of Almamegretta. This incarnation released Corpus in 1996.  After a ten year silence, this same line-up released Unisono on Edel Records in 2006.

8) Ashes is a band from either Virginia or Chicago. They  released the album Swirl in 1998 on Seraph. The album is a mixture of shoegazer pop songs and ambient instrumentals.

9) Ashes is also a black metal band from San German, Puerto Rico

10) Ashes is the noise project of Ryan Talley from Arlington, Texas. 

11) Ashes from Ohio, Usa. One man depressive black metal act.
released Grief Demo, 2007 and Nihilist EP, 2007.

12) ASHES was born during the summer of 2009 when Pontus Lindroth started creating the first songs. The drummer Michael Nilsson, from another local band (Tavion), showed interest in joining the band after listening to some pre-productions. Before even planning to record the songs and making something serious, Jocke Åsvold (Vocals) invited himself to the band. After making 5 songs, the band recorded a demo wich will be released during the summer of 2011. Marcus Edvardsson (Souldrainer, Aeon, sanctification etc.) handled the mixing job. During the mixing session, guitarist Fredrik Lindh was added to the line up.

13) Ashes is a Alt. Rock / Alt. Metal band from Tomar, Portugal. Originally formed in 1998. In 2001, with a similar line-up to the current one, they started to set their sound as post-grunge. In 2003/2004 several changes happened; a new voice and the introduction of a violin resulted in a change from post-grunge to Alternative Rock-Metal style.
http://ashesrain.tk/ 

14) Ashes are a young and promising, upcoming hardcore band. Only playing their first show in March 2012 their popularity has exploded and have played shows across 5 countries. Their debut demo ‘Hold on MMXII’ was releases on Perspective Records. From sharing the stage with No Turning Back, BWP, liferuiner, Desolated, Dead Harts, Thick as blood and Birds in Row..
Guaranteed for an incredible, energetic performance they’re a must-see band.

Releases: Demo Hold on MMXII (Perspective Records) August 2012
Winter Edition (Perspective Records) January 2013
Cursed EP (Perspective Records) July 2013
No Compromise EP (Perspective Records) July 2014
Cursed + No Compromise CD (Genet Records) August 2014
https://www.facebook.com/Asheshcband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ashes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.