There are two bands with the name Ashtar:

1)Ashtar is a duo from Basel, Switzerland, formed in 2012 by members of swiss doom bands Phased and shEver (Witch N. left shEver in 2013). They create an intuitive, intense hybrid of down-tuned archaic riffing, heavy bass and desperately sick vocals with layered, eerie-saturnine melodies, telling about abyss and beauty, melancholy and chaos.
Ashtars debut Album "Ilmasaar" is released in 2015.   


2) Ashtar are a Brazilian folk metal band with progressive influences.  Their debut album, Urantia, is a thought-provoking combination of Celtic folk, Brazilian folklore, and interesting songcraft.  The band began recording their 2nd album in 2008: "From the Otherside" that was meant to be released in 2008 but it has yet to materialize. The band took part to Aspherical Asphyxia Productions 2007 "My own wolf (a new approach)" tribute to Ulver, playing a cover medley of "The marriage of Heaven and Hell". The music is very organic and down-to-earth, and there are 7 members, each of whom play very distinct instruments:

Paula Mineoka - vocals and whistles
Luiz A. Garcia - vocals, guitars, whistles and keyboards
Eduardo Capella - Guitars
Oswaldo Velasco - violin
Daniel Dobbin - drums and percussion
Rob Gould - keyboards
Fabio Guilherme - bass



3)  Ashtar : Cesar Mafra, 26 years (Synthesizers and Mixer), was interested in music since he was young. An unconditional lover of the music and Psy-Trance culture, he noticed that besides being an admirer, he could be a follower. Rendering a desire through the composition of musical production, today, Cesar devotes his whole time and talent tothe art of producing.

Raphael Lisboa, 21 years, (Synthesizers and Electronic Battery), displayed an intimacy with music from very early on. by demonstrating abilities with the keyboard and guitar. He became acquainted with the movement of Psy Trance by frequenting RAVES falling in love with the music style. Today, he puts forth all his inspiration, dedication and talent into the composition and production in ASHTAR.

Mixing aggressiveness with energetic rhythms and outstanding melodies, ASHTAR mixes characteristics of several slopes of Psy Trance like the Progressive, the Full on and Dark. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ashtar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.