There are several artists and bands with the name 'Aslan':
1.  a rock band from Ireland.
2.  a progressive British folk band from England. 
3.  the first incarnation of the band Psychotic Waltz. 
4.  the Kurdish singer Hozan Aslan (means 'Singer Aslan').
5.  the Kurdish artist Mikail Aslan.
6.  the Kurdish musician Ahmet Aslan. 

1) The first is Aslan, is a a rock band from Dublin, Ireland. Formed in the mid-late 80's. The band features Christy Dignam (Vocals), Joe Jewel (Guitar), Tony McGuinness (Bass), Billy McGuinness (Harmonica, Keyboards, Percussion, Guitar) and Alan Downey (drums). Over the course of their career Aslan have played many different styles of music, ranging from pop, acoustic rock, rock etc. The band are also known as one of the hardest working bands in Ireland, playing (generally) at least one gig a week.
The band has released  5 studio albums (Feel no Shame, Goodbye Charlie Moonhead, Here comes Lucy Jones, Waiting for this madness to end, and For Some Strange Reason) 2 live albums (Made in Dublin, and Live at the Olympia), 1 greatest hits collection (Shame about Lucy Moonhead), 1 DVD (Made in Dublin) and a Platinum collection which contained all their singles, b-sides, and  other rare tracks. The band have also done duets with popular artists like Sinéad O'Connor (Up in Arms, She's So Beautiful). Currently the band is working on their 5th studio album, they have already tried out several songs live including "Are these the best days of my life?"

2) The second band with this name is a progressive British folk band from Leicestershire, England and consists of three girls and three guys. Their fragile vocals, acoustic guitars, autoharp, flute, recorder, glockenspiel and percussion all work together to create a sincere beauty and charm. The music sometimes reflects the style of old-time traditional English folk, even on their self-composed songs. They are also in some ways reminiscent of Parchment’s best moments, minus the electric components, resulting in a warm acoustic sound. There are two albums by them to date, one being Paws For Thought (1976) & Second Helpings (1977)

3) The third band was the first incarnation of the band Psychotic Waltz under the name Aslan, after a character in the novel The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe by C. S. Lewis. With money earned from local shows and T-shirt sales, they recorded a self-titled demo tape in 1986. After discovering another band with the same name, they changed theirs to Psychotic Waltz and recorded a new four-song demo in 1988. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aslan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.