There are numerous artists who use the name ASP: 1. a German darkwave band from Frankfurt/Main, 2. an alternative idol group from Japan. 3. a thrash metal band from Austin, Texas, 4. a Turkish rapper, 5. a French instrumental  hip-hop project.

1) ASP is a German darkwave band from Frankfurt am Main formed in 1999. The name Asp is taken from the pseudonym of the band leader and is pronounced as one word (like the snake), but written in capital letters. They formed in 1999 by Alexander Frank Spreng and Matthias Ambré (a.k.a. "Matze"), producing their first 3-track demo CD later that year. In 2000, they signed a record deal with Tristol, who released the band's debut album Hast Du mich vermisst? as well as the band's first live performance, at the 'Gothicworld' festival.

Over the next few years, they released two more albums, and along with their debut album, formed the album series Der Schwarze Schmetterling. ASP continued to perform at high-profile festivals due to their growing popularity. 

The band suffered some difficulty in 2004 with the bankruptcy of distributor EFA, though their albums were reissued later that year, along with the Interim Works Compendium, a 2CD collection of rarities as well as selected tracks from their three albums to date. Another string of live dates took them through to the release of Aus der Tiefe in May 2005, the fourth part of the Der Schwarze Schmetterling series. The fifth part Requiembryo followed in 2007.

The year 2008 saw the release of three new albums. First, a best of-album Horror Vacui was released in February. This was followed by a tour in Europe. At the end of August the band released Zaubererbruder - Der Krabat-Liederzyklus, an album based on the Sorbian Krabat legend. The live recording Akoasma - Horror Vacui Live became available in December 2008. They have also remixed Emilie Autumn's "Liar", plus provided vocals for the mix. It is known as the "Manic Depressive Mix" and is featured on the Liar/Dead Is The New Alive (Double Feature EP). The band released their first DVD in August 2009, entitled Von Zaubererbrüdern: Live & Unplugged.

In 2011, after almost 11 years of cooperation, the paths of the two founders of the band diverged - songwriter and singer Alexander "Asp" Spreng and producer and guitarist Matthias Ambré. ASP as a band continued with new partners, and the musicians Andreas Gross and Oliver Himmighoffen were retained for live performances. The reasons for separation are given officially as personal and professional differences.

One year later Oliver Himmighoffen also left the band. In his place Stefan Günther, who is a friend of Sören Jordan, joined the band. There are new festival dates in 2022, some in 2021 had to be cancelled due to the Corona epidemic, and they released a new Best Of compilation titled Reflexionen 1 and Reflexionen 2.
--
2) ASP are a seven-member Japanese alternative idol group formed in March 2021 as part of WACK. Their members are Yumeka Nowkana?, Mog Ryan, Nameless, Matilder Twins, Wonker Twins, CCCCCC and Riontown. The group were revealed at the 2021 WACK AUDiTiON CAMP on March 27th, then released their first two songs on SoundCloud on April 9th after a "fake" version was uploaded with the producer's vocals. Their debut album, ANAL SEX PENiS, was released on May 26th 2021, followed by their first one man live performance on May 30th. ASP's debut single, the MAN CALLiNG, was released on September 22nd. AKB48 member Yuki Kashiwagi briefly joined ASP (and all other WACK groups) in November, releasing the single AGAiNST THE WORLD. In the same month, original member Naayu announced her graduation from ASP due to injury, with Matilder Twins and Wonker Twins joining the group at her final show. ASP's second album, PLACEBO, was released on January 5th 2022. The groups second single, BOLLOCKS, followed on April 13th. In May 2022 it was announced that the group had signed with the major label Avex, who will release the single Hyper Cracker on August 31st.
–
3) Asp is a thrash/hardcore/heavy metal band from Austin, Texas. Originating in 1999, Keith Palumbo (who worked at Waterloo Records and is a known drummer) had song titles, but nothing more. He met Chris Cline (an engineer and musician), but Chris moved back to his hometown and the project was put to the side until 2002. After spending some time in the studio working on music, Keith and Chris recruited Craig Moore for vocals who is known for his hardcore/grind/death/chaos metal vocal style. They finally had music to go with Keith's song titles, and their self-titled album was released in 2005 containing some very short songs (re-release on several streaming sites in 2021).
--
4) Asp, real name Berkay Köse, was born in 1997 in Ankara, Turkey. The artist had been influenced by rap music from an early age. Over time, his interest in songwriting grew and he wrote about street action and social critical themes. Blending the early lyrical spirit of rap music with modern industrial sounds, the artist strives to present songs that contain musically rich elements to the listeners with his recitation style that forms the basis of Anatolian Middle Eastern melodies.
--
5) Collaborative project of the French instrumental hip-hop ASP crew, consisting of akabrownsugar, Shitao and Pi-pol. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ASP">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.