Aspherium is a Progressive Death Metal band from Moss/Oslo, Norway.

Get the new album digitally at http://www.cdbaby.com/aspherium or get the cd at http://aspherium.bigcartel.com/

Their new album "The Fall of Therenia" is a sci-fi concept album that takes you on a journey through progressive death metal, soothing melodic passages, and grim brutality,

The album was mixed and mastered by Jens Bogren at Fascination Street Studios in Sweden. He has worked with bands like Opeth, Soilwork, Devin Townsend, Ihsahn and Amon Amarth.

The song Landfall features guest vocals from Bjørn "Speed" Strid from Soilwork.

Earlier this year Aspherium were on tour in Norway with Decapitated and Blood Red Throne. They also did a european tour with Blood Red Throne and some other Norwegian bands last summer.
Aspherium has opened for acts like Satyricon, Ihsahn and Susperia and played countless shows across Norway as well as several gigs in Belgium on several occasions.




They released their debut album "The Veil of Serenity" in November 2011. Getting great review scores all over the world. Purchase the album at http://www.aspherium.com

Aspherium was started in 2007 by Marius Skarsem Pedersen on guitars and vocals and Torgeir Lyby Pettersen on bass. They quickly enlisted Bjørn Tore Erlandsen as the drummer.
Winter 2007 they recorded a three song demo called "The lingering animosity". In 2008 the band was writing songs, but due to a back injury, Bjørn Tore could not play drums and all the plans for live shows and promotion of "The lingering animosity" got put on hold.

2009 saw the band going into rehearsal and nailing down the demo songs, as well as complete new tracks. A long time was spent auditioning guitarists for the second guitar position, and finally in autumn 2009, the found their fourth member in guitarist Morten Nielsen.

They played countless live shows, and started recording their debut album in 2010. After trying to get good deals with a label to release the album, the band realized the deals they were offered were not good enough, so it would be better to release the album themselves. They got a digital distribution deal with Codfather Records, but Aspherium released the physical cd themselves on their website and at concerts.

The band continued to play many live shows, including Belgium as well as countless shows in Norway. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aspherium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.