1) Asphalt is a digital hardcore duo from Sweden. Started in summer/early fall of 2002 when the to members Cristoffer Wiker and Carl Pramlid went to college in Dalarna, Sweden. They made a few tracks and got some recognition from the fan base for digital hardcore music in Sweden and was booked for a couple of underground parties. From there it kicked in and the band went out to do a series of clubs and festivals up until the fall of 2005 when the project was iced until further notice. There are still unreleased tracks floating around out there on the web...

Asphalt is an alternative rock band from Raleigh, NC. Made up of Brian Morris (guitar/vocals), Chris "Krispy" O'Hara (bass/vocals), and Jonathan Davison (drums), the three band members are currently divided and conquering the southeastern United States in a collegiate setting. They formed in 2000, when all were in 7th grade, and proceeded to self-release a few discs that would later be disowned by the band itself. Their most recent album is entitled "The Eaves" and was recorded in the home studio of one Peter Kimosh, of Chapel Hill, NC. The band members are all currently hard at work at college, and hope to recombine their forces to record and release an EP at their winter breaks.

Asphalt about 70 minutes of heavy, innovative music, displaying a variety of styles ranging from SABBATH influenced insanity to depressing delusions of Joy Division, Asphalt was formerly known as False Hope with Sal LaPiccollo (bass), Hawthorne Smith (guitar) and David Nicholi Araca who was stolen from us shortly after this was recorded due to a brain aneurism. Guests are Derrick from OUTFACE and Dwid from INTEGRITY.

Asphalt is a Japanese Hardcore punk band. They have at least 2 releases,  the Midnight Pain CD, and a 7 inch EP, both on Blood Sucker Records.

Asphalt was an underground band from Prague, Czech republic. They mixed punk, metal and electronic music and they have released a few albums. One self-released EP (Invaze) + two full-lenght albums (Zase hukot, Slunce v duši). Officially formed in 2003 by four friends from elementary school. Last known line-up: Petr "Shashek" Čech - guitars, vocals; Jarda "Rychloň" Klema - bass, vocals; Honza "Racek" Sakař - keys, programming, vocals and Standa "Snape" Černý - lead vocals. Snape left band in September 2005. Three remaining members relased last Asphalt's album (with funky, ska and rock influences) "Slunce v duši" (2005) and from 2006 band is oficially in on-hold status. For possible gigs (or offers) check this site http://bandzone.cz/asphalt.

2)  ASPHALT is a punk band from Toulouse, France.

https://asphalttoulouse.bandcamp.com/  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Asphalt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.