Asphyx is a death metal band from the Netherlands that incorporates doom metal and thrash metal elements into their music.

The band was formed in 1987 by Bob Bagchus and Tonny Brookhuis. Eric Daniels was found as a second guitarist and Chuck Colli joined on vocals and bass; this combo released the "Enter the Domain" demo.

In March 1989 Colli was replaced by Theo Loomans and they recorded the "Crush the Cenotaph" demo. Brookhuis then left the band and the remaining three recorded "Embrace the Death" album which was never released due to label problems.

After Martin van Drunen left Pestilence in the early 1990s, he joined Asphyx and the band signed to Century Media Records. After the release of their debut album "The Rack", they went on a European tour with Entombed, followed by a tour with Bolt Thrower and Benediction in 1992. Shortly after the recording of the second album "Last One on Earth" Van Drunen left the band, to be replaced by Ron van der Pol. Eventually Bagchus left the band as well. He was replaced by Sander van Hoof.

The self-titled "Asphyx" album was released in 1994 and led to the band's demise in 1995.

In 1995 Loomans and Baghus reformed Asphyx and recorded "God Cries". Around the same time also the Embrace the Death album was released. Nevertheless the band split up again after the release. In 1997 Soulburn was founded by Bagchus and Daniels and together with Pentacle singer and bassist Wannes Gubbles they recorded the "Feeding on Angels" album.

In 1999 they renamed the project into Asphyx and recorded the "On the Wings of Inferno" album with the same lineup. However, Asphyx disbanded again in 2000.

In January 2007, the band re-united with Van Drunen, Gubbels, Paul Baayens and Bagchus and made a comeback, with much of interest from the death metal scene. After the "Death the Brutal Way"" 7'' single in 2008, they released their come-back album "Death...The Brutal Way" in 2009 and started touring the world. A year later Gubbels was replaced by Alwin Zuur. After several EP's, compilations and split albums, the band released their latest album "Deathhammer" in 2012.

Official website: www.asphyx.nl <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Asphyx">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.