There are mutliple artists with this name:

1. Assassin is a German thrash metal formed in 1983. They are one of the first German thrash metal bands, best known for their debut album - The Upcoming Terror.

2. Assassin is a French hip-hop act formed in the late 1980s by Rockin’ Squat (real name Mathias Cassel) and Solo, later joined by Doctor L and DJ Clyde. True to their musical and lyrical roots, Assassin are primarily interested in social criticism and uncompromising music.

3. Assassin is a Rap artist/producer out of San Jose, California, who has collaborated with such artists as 2Pac, JT The Bigga Figga, Rappin' 4-Tay, Young Droop, San Quinn, Mistah F.A.B. and more.

4. Assasin (spelled with only three 's'. Last.fm however corrects this to this page) is a Danish indie act.

5. Assassin is a Jamaican DJ (born December 22, 1982 as Jeffrey Campbell in Papine, Jamaica). He was discovered by artist Spragga Benz who helped him sign with Penthouse Records.

7. Assassin was a thrash metal band from the United States of America (San Francisco, California) formed in 1984. The band members were 15 at the time of recording their only demo "Blitzed Resistance" in 1985.

8. Assassin is an Irish heavy metal band appearing on the Green Metal: New Wave Of Irish Heavy Metal compilation in 1985. They released the single "Stealin'" in 1987.

9. Assassin is a Korean Death Metal Band They ara First Album "Leader Of The New World" Is A First Pressed Album In Korean Death Scene

10. Assassin was a Power/Speed/Thrash Metal band from Minneapolis, Minnesota.  Christian leaning band, yet ironically taking a big influence from Mercyful Fate for their sound.  Had one demo "Metal Massacre" 1987, afterwards changed their name to Deadly Assassin.  In 2012, Stormspell Records released a compilation called "The Metal Knights" on CD which contains both the demo and Deadly Assassin sessions.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Assassin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.