Assisting Sorrow was formed by guitarist Chris Leffler & drummer Jim Higgins after the demise of their former band, Death Metallers Cataclysm who issued several demos throughout the underground metal scene from 1992-1994. After deciding to change the band's name due to another act under the same moniker from Canada, Jim & Chris changed the band's name to Assisting Sorrow which was the title of one of the songs from their '93 demo. Unfortunately, due to everyone's disgust with the metal scene as well as uncommitted band members, the earliest incarnation of Assisting Sorrow called it a day in April of '94.

Around the summer of '95, out of disgust with the death metal scene & realizing their common interest in all things metal, Jim & Chris decided to start writing & rehearsing what would become Assisting Sorrow! After searching & putting up ad's for a bassist & vocalist without any luck, Jim & Chris decided to enter the studio in April of '98 to record 3 new songs with Chris going on ahead & laying down all the bass tracks! Joining them on vocals was none other than ex-Cataclysm/current Abominant vocalist Mike Barnes who layed down his tracks only after rehearsing with the band 2 times! The results were Assisting Sorrow's "3-song Demo '98" which received a lot of praise & postive reviews from the likes of Metal Maniacs, Worm Gear (NJ), Il-literature zine, Metal Curse, Satan's Candy Basket, Ballbuster Mag, Sociopathic Despair zine, Metal Nightmare zine,etc.

Finally, in July of 1998 Assisting Sorrow were joined by bassist Jerry Barksdale, & from then on Assisting Sorrow started playing gigs throughout their home of Louisville, Kentucky with positive results. May of 1999, Assisting Sorrow once again entered the studio to record 4 new tracks. The results were the "4-song Promo 99" which showed the band going into a much more melodic approach & style, showing more of an emphasis on melodies & dual harmonies mixed with technical riffing yet still showing their death metal roots! Throughout much of 1999 Assisting Sorrow were playing more shows throughout their hometown as well as Cincinatti & Cleveland, Ohio.

In August of 1999 Assisting Sorrow were approached by Dwell Records out of California to record a song and be apart of the upcoming King Diamond Tribute. August of 1999 Assisting Sorrow once again entered the studio to record the track "The Invisible Guests" for the upcoming tribute! The results turned out really good! Unfortunately, at this time personal differences within the lineup were rising, but still the band pushed on playing shows on up 'till the end of 1999..... Late January of 2000 Assisting Sorrow were once again approached by Dwell records to be a part of 2 more tributes. One being Led Zeppelin & the other being AC/DC! The band agreed to be a part of them, but unfortunately things were very heated between band members! Due to differences that were both musical & personal as well as other bullshit reasons, all the members (minus guitarist Chris Leffler) decided to call it quits which left Chris with the hard task of finding musicians that would play on the upcoming tributes! Since the contract was already signed there was no backing out of the deal! Quickly, Chris got his brother, Brian Leffler, to lay down the drums tracks & asked good friend & DumpGang bassist, Kenny Phelps, to lay the bass tracks! Finally, ex-DumpGang vocalist Derek Robinson came onboard to lay down the vocal tracks! Despite being rushed for time, the band pulled off the 2 tracks more than effectively.

During March of 2000 with a whole new lineup Assisting Sorrow began working on new material, but unfortunately in April of 2000 guitarist Chris Leffler was injured in a car accident which kept him from playing the guitar for over 2 months resulting in the band again falling apart! After going through physical therapy for the next 4 months Chris was back to playing guitar & writing new material! Unfortunately, the band was left without a place to practice & rehearse until the summer of 2001! Finally with a place to practice, Chris along with brother Brian Leffler on drums began working on material old & new. Along the way Assisting Sorrow was joined by ex-SEN member Kevin Krauth on bass! From then the band started writing more & more material showing the band growing & maturing as songwriters & musicians! Finally, joined by ex-Snatch vocalist Jason Saylor, Assisting Sorrow started preparing to play shows!

On Febuary 16th of 2002, Assisting Sorrow played their 1st show with the new lineup in over 2 years at the Emerson Theatre in Indianapolis, Indiana with positive results! Unfortunately, after their next show, vocalist Jason Saylor decided to call it quits due to extreme personal differences with the band, which left the band once again vocalist! Following soon after would be bassist Kevin Krauth who deciding to leave to move to California to become a star! Deciding to forge ahead the rest of lineup along with the addition of 2nd guitarist Anthony Reitl,ex-Psychopathy bassist Matt Vaughn, & new vocalist Ginger, Assisting Sorrow are currently in the studio recording all new material & rehearsing for upcoming shows! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Assisting+Sorrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.