Astarte Syriaca was born in 2003 with the intention to propose an innovative and eclectic prog-metal sound. The band plays live in some of the most famous roman clubs (eg Cube, Alpheus) and takes part in some events organized by the city municipality (eg Roma 70 Live). The sound of the band is characterized by a metal-progressive style and the drummer Gabriele Valerio (Theatres des Vampires) gives it his good contribution for the time when he collaborates with the band.
In 2004 the recording of promo-cd "Astarte Syriaca" is committed to "16th Cellar Studios" in Rome. "Kick Promotion Agency", which represents some of the national underground most in sight bands, takes care of the promo diffusion by radios, music magazines and web magazines.
They wrote about them:
"Italy is proving to be a country more and more rich in musicians and composers. It's just the matter of the roman Astarte Syriaca" (www.heavymetal.it).
"The roman combo introduces into its musical substratum some of the progressive influences connected to the 70's. Doing that, is born an album which, till from the first notes, reveals the excellent technique of its interpreters, the fine taste for the melody, the good care about arrangements (always simple and linear) and finally the goodness of ideas contained in this self-produced homonymous CD" (www.kronic.it).
In 2005 Astarte Syriaca, togheter with "Moonlight Comedy" and "The Fifth Season", takes part in the most important progressive event in Rome: the "Killer Prog Night". Their first videoclip based on the single release "Winged Horses" is filmed by Riccardo Ponis and the band is later engaged for a gig in the famous club "Stazione Birra", chosen by numerous italian and international rock stars for their shows in Rome.
During the reharsals for the gig the band begins to plan a new kind of show in which the music is fitted in a multi-artistic context made of theatre, painting, photography and grafic design.
The idea is about to propose a kind of show that guide the audience into the music itself, by means of a real stage designing. Stazione Birra staff proves to be available and the club entrance is used as a painting exhibition of various artists, in the hall there are two projectors and the poetry recitation is commited to Barbara Alesse while Georgia Tribuiani deals with video fx.
"Winged Horses" videoclip boasts numerous broadcastings on italian, international and satellite tv channels.
In 2006 the multi-artistic show is repeated at "Stazione Birra" where Astarte Syriaca play also as support of a historical band of the 70's: "Metamorfosi". In the same year, the band takes part in the "Dream Wave Contest" winning the first regional place and the third national place. Third Place also for the "Woodstock in Sabina Festival", then the selection for "Sanremo Rock". Thanks to these competitions, which bring Astarte to play all over the national ground, Alkemist Fanatix Europe, notices this now no more up-and-coming band and decides to represent it as A&R, Promotion Manager and Booking Office.
In 2007, Astarte Syriaca begin to record their first LP called "Darkened Light". Through a succession of live performances in which they decide to make an extract of "Jesus Christ Superstar", grows up the "Jesus Christ Superstar - Opera Prog" project where the desire to realize a show in which the musical component found its widening in a theatrical staging, reaches its ideal shape: the "concert-show". With this new genre, Astarte Syriaca debut and repeat at Stazione Birra and then they move to "Vigano' Theatre" in Rome.
In 2008, Astarte Syriaca write the sound track of "Green" a film written and directed by Carlo Fineschi, with Alessio di Clemente and Marco Venienti. The adventure of Jesus Prog is continuing on the stages all over Italy. On 17th and 22nd of March Astarte Syriaca togheter with the director Barbara Alesse and the cast of Jesus Prog will be guests of the programme "Password" on Gold TV, lazio Channel and Roma Sat. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Astarte+Syriaca">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.