Solo project of Astathica (Profondo, Babygrinder, Toorn, Bluthunde etc.) stylistically aligned with black metal with a slight strain of avant-garde and ambient. Although heavily influenced by (mainly) Emperor, both musical and lyrical themes usually vary from album to album.

The debut album, "Birth of the Infernal Darkness" (2002) and two demos that came before it embraced a melodic black metal approach, using a lot of synths and ambient elements for atmosphere building. Guitars were performed by Chiram, additional lyrics were written by FrozenMoon.
After this work started on 2004's "Shaped to the Image of the Flames". On this album Astathica took over guitar duties, and the writing and recording turned towards a bit more harsh and less melodic approach. Additional guitar work was performed by Thomas. This album also features a cover of "Pierced Genitalia" (Carpathian Forest).

The next album, "Death, Ignorance and Destruction" would see a complete rework before being released in 2008, as Astathica moved to a different recording environment. Despite being relatively short, the album was more focused and found a return of more ambient elements, as well as adding more orchestral synth parts. This album also features a cover of "A Lost Sad Forgotten Spirit" (Burzum).

In between 2008 and 2015, Astathica wrote and reworked a new album. In the meantime, the Netherlands-based tape label Zwaertgevegt (website: https://www.zwaertgevegt.nl) started releasing the back catalogue on tape, which prompted some work on revamping the older albums. In 2018 the new album "Symbiosis" finally saw the light of day - musically incorporating more ambient elements yet again as well as clean vocals, this album is a departure from the old material in a lyrical sense as it mainly deals with the individual and philosophical concepts instead of the theological - a change that started on the previous album's "The Irony in Destruction". This album has also seen a tape release on Zwaertgevegt.

Upcoming is planned to be the "Death of Life" EP, originally slated for release in 2019 but due to accommodational issues for recording postponed to 2021. Writing for a new album has been underway and several pieces have been written. All main releases can be found at the Bandcamp page: https://astathica.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Astathica">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.