There are three acts making music under the name Asteroid:
1. A Swedish psychedellic / space-rock band;
2. An electronic solo musician from the Netherlands;
3. A changing group of improvising musicians from London.

1. Heavy, progressive Swedish spaced-out 70's-style fuzzrock. The band was formed in the winter of 2003-2004. Releases: "Demo 2004", "Ep 2005", "Asteroid & Blowback" (Fuzz Split 2006, Release April 2006 by Fuzzorama Records), "Asteroid" (2007), II (2010). The history of Asteroid is a psychedelic space saga, timeless and endless, with no upside or downside, but with a beautiful ending. The band, formed during the winter of 2003, has undertaken a long musical journey and developed a sound well fit to the trio constellation. After being formed as a regular stoner band, it didnt take long before new grounds were conquered. Since then, influences have been collected from blues and British 70s classic rock, but also from Swedish traditional folk music. Asteroid is now back with their second album, called simply II. It is a more evolved but also relaxed and groovy follow up to their highly acclaimed debut album S/T. This time they locked themselves up in a studio deep in the forest, trying to capture the raw and naked sound and feeling in their music. You will hear a tighter, heavier, but also darker Asteroid. You will still recognize the characteristic energy in the sound and feel the joy delivered by the musicians. This record is like transporting yourself back to the psychedelic woods of Sweden, but unlike other 70s influences bands this is also fresh and unique on its own. Asteroid is today a well-known live act all over Europe with constant touring and a reputation of wild and sweaty live shows. Hold on to your hats!

2. Asteroid is an alias for a 23 year old young man called Jonathan, who lives in Kampen, The Netherlands. his songs are a mix of melodic progressive breaks, drum 'n bass, lounge, and a tiny bit of industrial.
He started mixing and producing in early 2005. He's always focussed on producing spatial and spacey melodies, i.e., lots of strings and reverb.

3. Asteroid is a changing group of improvising musicians formed in 2011, making drone, noise and sci-fi soundscapes. Members have included Kevin Quigley, Graham Dunning, Nabil Ahmed, Jo Thomas, Christos Fanaros, Mark Wagner, Colin Webster and Farooq Janjua.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Asteroid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.