Astroqueen's music can be described as heavy, fuzzy, downtuned, spaced-out rock! With influences from bands such as early Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden, Kyuss and Soundgarden.

The members of Astroqueen live in the small sea side village of Stenungsund, Sweden. This is where they put their heavy tunes together. The dudes have been jamming together in different projects since 1995 but it wasn't until the summer of 1998 that Astroqueen was born. After intense jamming and excessive practice hours spent in the garage, they entered the studio to record their first demo.

This demo was later handed over to Tony Jelencovich (Transport League) and provided Astroqueen with the opportunity to perform at his rock club "Belsepub" in Gothenburg.

More songs were written during early '99 and in May they did another gig, once again at Belsepub. This time with the Stockholm based Misdemeanor.

In June '99 Astroqueen recorded one track for the Swedish stoner compilation called "Molten Universe: Volume 1". Also featured on this compilation are bands such as Dozer, Lowrider and Mammoth Volume among others.

At this point public interest in Astroqueen started to grow and they were approached by the small label Monster Zero (Germany), who wanted to release an Astroqueen 7". Since Astroqueen hadn't yet recorded any material, they moved some recording equipment into their garage and laid down five tunes on tape. This demo is known as "Themes from the Magic Ocean". Two tunes from this recording, "Rufus the Space Agent" and "Asteroid Blaster (pt. 1)" ended up on the Monster Zero 7".

Shortly after the recording Underdogma records (US) approached Astroqueen and requested a track for their upcoming compilation of 27 other stoner rock bands which included the likes of Solace, Solarized and Porn (The Men Of). Once again picked from "Themes from the Magic Ocean".

In October '99 Astroqueen did two gigs with American rockers Unida. One show in Gothenburg and the other one in Stockholm.

At the same time the demo "Themes from the Magic Ocean" was mailed to several record labels. In December 1999 Astroqueen was signed to Pavement Music.

In 2001 their album Into Submission was released.

In 2004 the band split and some of the members are already engaged in great music projects like Hearts of Black Science and Sambassadeur. This page is a reference page to their past work and music influences.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Astroqueen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.