Genre: Pop / Dance
Members: Astraea
Hometown: Los Angeles

With the global album release of Dirty Blonde in 2011, Astraea continues her journey to dominate popular music worldwide. Astraea has worked with some major hitting producers such as Miklos Malek (The X Factor), Jaakko Salovarra (Darude – Sandstorm), Flip Flop DJ & MC Princess Superstar and Grammy Winning – Multi Platinum Producer / Songwriter Gen Rubin. Astraea continues to find herself working with gigantic names daily, helping her to hone in and perfect her sound. She currently resides in Los Angeles but continues to write and record in New York as well as the West Coast helping her create dance floor-ready anthems in the vein of Katy Perry and Robyn. In the U.S., Astraea has released multiple EPK’s all across the web utilizing such major platforms as itunes, Soundcloud, Spotify & other music distributing social media sites. She has been exponentially gaining fans, friends, followers and Likes in her real life scenario as well as the important media sites including facebook, twitter & pinterest. Her new website iamastraea.com has seen rapid growth analytically in the short five months that it has been published and she is looking to branch out even further in 2013 with a heavy marketing push and a solid S. E. O. plan set in place.

Raised in sunny San Diego, Astraea was once part of an all-girls school choir singing in competitions across the country. Fast forward to today and she’s transformed into a shining star setting night clubs ablaze and entertaining huge crowds with her sultry, high-energy performances. Astraea was born with an innate love for music and has been involved in it for most of her life. It was the singer’s mother who first noticed the vocal talent of her bright-eyed 6-year old and started investing in Astraea’s gift. Honing her skills with private vocal lessons, the care-free California girl was also in a girls singing group called Motown Minnies. While discovering her own unique sound and artistry in college, Astraea participated in the chamber and mixed choirs. Exposed to diverse music genres while growing up, Astraea was influenced by powerhouse performers and music icons such as Etta James, Christina Aguilera, No Doubt, Robyn, Aretha Franklin, Led Zeppelin and Stevie Nicks to name a few. The dance chanteuse smooth voice tone is bouncy and bright, yet soul and passion burst through with every note. “I take little bits of the people I admire and put it towards my creative process of making music,” the singer explains.

NEVER ONE TO LOOK FOR A PARTY, THIS FUN-LOVING CHICK BRINGS THE PARTY TO WHEREVER SHE IS, AND HERS IS NOT ONE YOU’LL WANT TO MISS!

Defying the cookie – cutter pop stereotype, Astraea not only knocks your socks off with her talent, she’s also drop dead gorgeous, with a flair for fashion and art. Inspired by Nylon Magazine and Andy Warhol, her music reflects her eye-catching sense of style: flirtatious, retro & rock infused. When she’s not cranking out a dance hit, the artist finds solace in writing, creating collages, redecorating and cooking. She is also a health and fitness advocate and a big supporter of the LGBT community.

With her first EP, the starlet mirrored the theme of her music and sported a “dirty blonde” image, but this time around she’s reinvented and revamped her look. Now a blazing red-head, Astraea is gearing up to heat up the mic once again with the same spunky attitude and even more charm than ever. Her upcoming projects are in motion to be released this upcoming year.

Making her mark on the music scene, Astraea released her debut EP Dirty Blonde in March 2010 receiving rave reviews by music lovers and music press. She released the lead single off the 6-song EP of the same name to a positive reception. The Chicago Examiner sung its praises saying, “It’s basically the perfect club song; once it comes on everyone gets up and dances. It’s filled with electro – pop beats that will get anyone moving their feet.” Filled with big infectious synths and pop-friendly guitar riffs, the Miklos Malek (The X Factor) produced CD landed Astraea a top spot on Music Connection’s Top 100 Live Unsigned Artists and she was specially selected to be the face of Dirty Blonde Cocktails, a line of premium champagne cocktails carried in Target and BevMo stores nationwide. Astraea also released a video to accompany “Dirty Blonde,” which was featured heavily among online music blogs such as Aerial Noise, Queer Me Up, Cutting Edge Voices and was elected Fuse TV- Unsigned Artist On Demand Winner. Dirty Blonde, a video that heavily showcases her performance abilities, came very naturally to Astraea as she is no stranger to the stage. Having performed in legendary venues such as Belly Up Tavern in Solana Beach to Krave Nightclub in Las Vegas, Astraea has become a veteran when it’s time to putting on a show.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Astraea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.