At least 12 artists share this name (see below):

1)  Astrid, the Scottish band:
Astrid

Astrid are a guitar-pop band from the Isle of Lewis in the Outer Hebrides, Scotland.

A brief history of astrid
Find yourself on a remote island in the Scottish Hebrides and you’ll find the deep roots of a band called astrid. It started in 1990 when an 11-year-old boy called Willie Campbell met a 10-year-old boy called Charlie Clark and they bonded over a shared fanaticism of comic books, movies and music. Soon after, the pair began to experiment with playing various instruments in barns, garages and sheds throughout the island; their only audience the flora, fauna and possibly livestock of the Isle of Lewis.
6 years later Willie & Charlie found themselves in Glasgow with a rhythm section who shared their love of 60s garage, psychedelic pop and tight harmonies. In the beginning the boys of astrid spent their days writing songs and working flower stalls. At night they donned their finest charity shop threads to play astrid’s complete catalogue of seven songs at King Tuts Wah Wah Hut and Nice & Sleazy’s. Stop by the Halt Bar on Woodlands Rd any Saturday afternoon and the boys of astrid could likely be found playing the open stage or spending their giros at the bar, even more likely, doing both. It was here Stevie Jackson from Belle & Sebastian heard astrid and asked the boys along for the first UK Belle & Sebastian tour. astrid accepted; their audience was quickly becoming their fans.
Fantastic Plastic
It was on this tour after a show at The Union Chapel in London that the boys of astrid met managers and founders of Fantastic Plastic Records, Darrin and Julie Robson. astrid signed to Fantastic Plastic in 1998 and all was right with the world.
Strange Weather Lately
Produced by Scottish Indie legend Edwyn Collins, astrid’s debut album, ‘Strange Weather Lately’ would go on to sell 10,000 copies and solidify astrid as 1999’s darlings of radio as they garnered support from the likes of John Peel, Steve Lamacq and Mark and Lard. The aforementioned setting in motion tours and shows in 2000 with acts from The Go-Betweens, Ben Lee and Sean Lennon to Lou Barlow, The Pernice Brothers and fellow indie circuit players, Snow Patrol.
Section On!
In 2001 Snow Patrol frontman Gary Lightbody asked astrid to join and ultimately become the core band for his Scottish indie supergroup, The Reindeer Section. Among others, the ambitious project included members of Arab Strap, Mogwai, Teenage Fanclub, The Vaselines and Idlewild. Spanning a three year period, The Section went on to release two albums and toured frequently, including a rather memorable trip to Japan for Summer Sonic 2003.
astrid released nine singles, three albums and three EPs before disbanding in 2004.
Recent History
Willie and Charlie remained friends throughout the years. They still shared a fanaticism of comic books, movies and music and never lost their mutual love of 60’s pop, psychedelia and tight harmonies, but they stopped making music together. Willie made his home and family in Lewis while Charlie did the same in Los Angeles.
In July 2015, Willie Campbell and Charlie Clark met on the Isle of Lewis and took a stroll along the beach in Gress, the two men fell into a chat about the idea of writing a few songs together. Four months later the pair found themselves in a studio in Laurel Canyon, Los Angeles recording the fourth astrid album ‘Fall, Stand, Dance’.
The Storm Session EP was released in 2020 on Wee Studio Records
January 21st 2022 will see the release of ‘Through the Darkness of Your Life’ & ‘Opposites Meet’ which was an old song of Willie’s for Astrid but never recorded, about post Strange Weather Lately era. It’s coming out on NO BIG DEAL MUSIC on a limited run of 300 7” single.


2) Astrid, the singer/songwriter from Scotland:

Astrid Williamson was the frontperson for Scottish trio Goya Dress in the mid-’90s. After the dissolution of the band in late 1996, Williamson opted to go solo under the alias of her first name. Astrid is a classically trained pianist and a confessional-style singer/songwriter with a uniquely haunting and beautiful voice. She is often compared to the likes of Tori Amos, Kristin Hersh And Polly Harvey though she definitely remains distinctive in her own right.

3) Astrid, the singer/songwriter from the Netherlands:

Dutch vocalist who became known by singing on Arjen Anthony Lucassen’s Ambeon (side project of Ayreon) at 14 years old. She has also released two solo albums and currently sings in her band theEndorphins.

4) Astrid Roelants, singer from Belgium who also participated in the Eurovision Preselection in Belgium with the song “Don’t stop the music”.

5) Astrid, experimental and electronic artist from Japan

6) Astrid Stockman, singer/songwriter from Belgium.

7) Astrid, singer from Indonesia.

Astrid Sartiasari, or better known as Astrid, is a Surabaya born singer who started her career performing in clubs with her band around Surabaya and entering singing competitions. She attracted the attention of Sony Music Indonesia which later included her debut single, Ratu Cahaya in the soundtrack for the movie, Tusuk Jelangkung released in 2003. She released her self titled debut album in 2005, followed by a repackaged album, Jadikan Aku Yang Ke 2 in 2006.

8) Astrid, UK band from the North East

Astrid officially formed in August 2010 when Tom Hancock joined Chloe Maughan and Joe Kroese’s casual outfit. They released their debut single “Strangers Alone” in January 2011, followed by “After the Bloodshed” in March 2011, and are working towards an album which will be released in Autumn 2011. 

9) Danish singer from Horsens- debut 2012 with single "Er der nogen" .

10) French group Astrïd started life around founder members Cyril Secq and Yvan Ros back in 1997, first as a guitar/drums duo before the arrival of violinist Vanina Andreani the year after and clarinettist Guillaume Wickel in 2005. Since 2007 they have lived and worked between Nantes and Marseille. The music of Astrïd has roots in improvised music, ambient, 70´s folk and jazz, classical and contemporary music from Ravel to Pärt. There´s also a kinship to artist like Philip Glass, Brian Eno, Mark Hollis, No Neck Blues Band and the Rachels (who they have performed with) but first and foremost they have established an unique and personal chamber music seamlessly mixing instruments, structures and approaches from both rock and classical music. 

11) Astrid is a singer from venezuela, tachira state

12) Astrid is a post-hardcore/screamo band from Singapore: https://astridsg.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Astrid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.