The project “ASTRAS” starts during the year 2002. Alessio Mosti, lead guitar and voice of the band, gives to himself another chance with Heavy Metal, after the bad breach with the Italian metal-band ATHENA, ( no later of publication of the first album ).
The new, great wish of Alessio is to put together a new band to join to a new project. After two years of research, he rescues the right elements and the project is able to start: Mike Bertoli, guitar, Marco Gozzoli, bass, Bruce Di Pede, drums. The formation put together some tracks, and begin the collaboration of the project with Almanegra, a Fantasy writer.
Almanegra writes the lyrics for them, and a short story, that soon gives the name to the band: “Star in the Chest”, the legend of Astras. The project is to realize an album inspired by the tale of Astras, the protagonist of the story. The band and Almanegra think about a real “Fantasy Saga”, in more episodes.

Alessio Mosti, lead vocals and guitar, was born in Pisa (Tuscany), he played some years in a metal-band called “Athena”, forming his “musician soul” with the voice Fabio Lione (Rapsodhy) and Matteo Amoroso (drummer in Vision Divine for many years). With Athena he had first experiences of studio with Pick Up records.
After some months, he leaved the band and went to Milano for five years, for to study more. After studies, He became a professional man and started to work with some important Italian musicians, playing in and out of Italy, over and over…at the same time, he started the project with the metal-band “Astras”, ‘cause the love for Heavy Metal was been stronger than whatever he found playing together Italian artists…
The rest of the band don’t works in first in music like Alessio, but follows his passion and the project, studies and plays Heavy Metal with serious vision. All guys studied, and Alessio particularly was a teacher in a named music school of Leghorn.
Bruce di Pede, drums ( Pisa ), he was an old time friend of Alessio. He came from two rock bands of Castellina Marittima called “Via Pozza” and “Nero”. He helped Alessio during some bad moments of life, and gave to him the first, big power to restart to play heavy metal with a band. Bruce and Alessio are true beginners of Astras.
Mike Bertoli, guitar, (Rosignano Solvay ) started to play under the good teaching of Eugene Simone (Eldritch ). He never found right situation he wished in music, since one day Alessio said to him “hey, you have a fucked metal t-shirt…what kind of fucked music do you play?” Mike said to Ale “Heavy Metal! Why do you ask me? It isn’t a teddy bear…it’s Eddy!!!” And Alessio said “ Ha ha…funny. But it isn’t a joke. I want you in my band.”
Marco Gozzoli, bass, ( Castiglioncello ), he came from the mistic sound of one amazing Italian rock band called Aracnofobia. Under the teaching of Frank Spinelli he built and grow his floral and strong 70’ style. One summer day, Almanegra saw and listened to Marco at one’s Aracnofobia show, and said to him: “ Dear…‘Got a dirty thought to say..” he said “ Hey, you have a boyfriend…don’t you?” and she said “Oh no, you misunderstand!!! Do you like heavy metal?” and he said “ Yes, I love it…” So, Almanegra said “ I’ts Perfect. You’ re us!” The day after the show, Marco came to Astras’ garage with the bass. He immediately loved Astras’ sound, Astras immediately loved Marco’s style so, after some times, he decided to leave Aracnofobia to play with Astras forever.

Well, so…In the year 2005, Astras and Almanegra worked hard at one new metal project with an Italian production, for another Fantasy story. But after one year the collaboration with the production failed before the publication…the manager lost mysteriously all the contacts, without explain to the band the really reasons. In spite of the happen, the band learned to work in studio and to measure their capacity, getting the better from a bad experience and also learning to watch their shoulders…So, they come back to “garage days”, restart to work at first project, also translate many good Italian tracks that will be integrated in their first album coming soon, near Astras’ s concept. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Astras">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.