There are several bands using this name:

1) At Daggers Drawn (Ger) is a hardcore band. Perhaps you know this... waking up, walking around and watching how daily life brings you in a mood that you just feel goddamn weak and lost? Feeling alone in a crowd of friends and strangers? These are just a few examples that we use to try to explain what's the intention behind At Daggers Drawn. Formed in 2008 some of us already played in other bands and we wanted to start something new. And like almost every band it took a while to find a constant line up and our own path to go. Having started to record stuff since early 2009 we played a lot of shows since then and will end up this year with nearly a month of touring trough Spain, Portugal and France with Tacklberry. For 2010 we have a lot of plans. Besides playing even more shows like the upcoming Eastern European/Russian tour with our Belgian friends "Daggers” we are recording our debut album in spring of 2010 that will be released through Fields Of Hope Records. At Daggers Drawn is not a band that talks about tons of fucked up things going on in this world added with a positive message or a masterplan. More likely we try to share our point of view that everything that surrounds us has an impact on us and where we are after growing up for years under the "shelter" of a prosperous society. In our music we found a way to release all our fear and anger. Playing shows is what we're all heading on and what gives a sense to our life. At Daggers Drawn is based in the fields of modern Hardcore in the vein of bands like Modern Life Is War, The Legacy... we could name plenty more but this wouldn't say anything about us, so get your own impression.....

We are sick of a world which is flooded by sexism, racism, homophobia and any kind of unreflected bullshit! There is plenty more to say about topics like these, but this is meant as a must-have statement in times where this scene becomes an anonymous playground for stupid and inhuman ideas. If we are not able to respect any person equally, there is no connection and nothing that can make this subculture a wall against all the shit that happens in this world every day!

Official MySpace: 
http://www.myspace.com/atdaggersdrawnhc


2) At Daggers Drawn (US) (now known as SEA OF TREACHERY) is a melodic death metal band from the Cincinnati area.  Featuring former and current members of At the Throne of Judgment, Hamstring the Horses; Burn the Chariots, and Burden of Convenience, At Daggers Drawn blends the guitar work of 1990s Gothenburg Metal with the drums of more neoclassical death metal and, at times, hardcore.  The vocals range widely with high screams comparable to Haste the Day and Prayer for Cleansing, low growls comparable to The Black Dahlia Murder and The Classic Struggle, heavy mid screams comparable to As I Lay Dying and melodic clean vocal parts reminiscent of Caliban and Raunchy on their first album, with new clean vocals sounding much more upbeat and in newer material.

The band underwent a temporary breakup following the release of their first album, The First Eulogy, on their own label.  Subsequently, the band reformed with a new lineup following Cory Knight's stint with At the Throne of Judgment on guitar and Alex Huffman's tenure with Hamstring the Horses; Burn the Chariots, first as a guitarist and later as the vocalist.

The band is currently writing new material for a 2008 full length to be released on a label TBA.

Current Lineup:
Alex Huffman - Vocals
Cory Knight - Guitar
Michael Dalhover - Guitar/Vocals
Jon Wells - Bass/Vocals
Tommy Dalhover - Drums

At Daggers Drawn Official MySpace:
www.myspace.com/seaoftreachery

3) At Daggers Drawn (Ger). After the leaving of Jörg (drums), the 4 remaining bandmembers of the former german doom metal band DE PROFUNDIS (origin: Koblenz), Rafael (guitar), Manuel (bass), Eike (vocals) and Petra (keys) met in summer 2003 with Erik (guitar) and Markus (drums), to found a melodic death metal band in the veins of At The Gates and In Flames. After some months of search for a rehearsal room AT DAGGERS DRAWN got finally born in spring 2004.

Eike left the band in late summer, but Silviu took Eike’s place pretty soon. The first gig followed in december and then in spring 2005 the second harsh blowback: Bassplayer Manuel had to leave the band for time reasons. After a longer search and an friendly bassplayer in the transition period, Frank found his way to AT DAGGERS DRAWN. In autumn 2005 it finally could get going:
ADD played with bands like Jack Slater, Excrementory Grindfuckers, Japanische Kampfhörspiele, Machinemade God, Doomsday, Sun Of Sadness, Stigmatized and Hatedrive.

But then in march 2007 Silviu went to Romania, for working reasons - only 3 months later Pierre was found as an worthy replacement. In november 2007 the first gig with the new line-up and the recordings for the EP “Ignition” followed.

Current Lineup:
Pierre - Vocals
Erik - Guitar
Rafael - Guitar
Frank - Bass
Petra - Keyboard
Markus - Drums

Official MySpace:
www.myspace.com/atdaggersdrawnmetal <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/At+Daggers+Drawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.