At Dawn They Sleep

Country of origin:
    Finland
Location:
    Kotka
Status:
    Split-up
Year of creation:
    1993

Genre:
    Melodic Death/Dark Metal
Lyrical themes:
    N/A
Last label:
    Northern Sound Records

1993

At Dawn They Sleep had its inception sometime during the year 1993 when a trash-crap-death band known as Brazen (Tuomo, Teemu and Petri) decided to recruit a vocalist (Jari) from a local punk band Oreth. Soon after that keyboard player Junnu followed by the guitarist Martti also joined the ranks. The name At Dawn They Sleep was given to the new band.

1994

Cellist Immi joined the band to bring some more orchestral feeling to the music. The first demo titled 'Red Sun' was recorded in a local studio. It sold some couple of hundred copies and got good feedback from the people but record companies weren't very interested in it.

1998

For a long time we just wrote new songs and played some gigs here in Kotka but finally in august 1998 we recorded our second demo titled 'Lust'. The demo was send to some major record companies and some of them seemed to be very interested in hearing more of us. However no contracts were signed.

1999

At Dawn They Sleep wrote some new songs and in April 1999 recorded them in a local studio with their friend Hide doing the mixing and producing. The songs were put on the internet as mp3 files for people to download and they've become quite popular. An old friend of the band, Mr. Mikko Oksanen, founded his own label Northern Sound Records and asked if they'd want to sign to his label. Some kind of a debut album has now been planned to be released year 2000.

The band split up in 2000.

Petri Peltola Bass
Immi Kormi Cello
Tuomo Kosonen Drums
Teemu Peltola Guitar
Martti Larinkari Guitar
Junnu Naumanen Synth
Jari Heino Vocals
Lotta Huitti Vocals (female) 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/At+Dawn+They+Sleep">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.