At Domine is a Polish band founded in 1995 in Racibórz, Poland by Tom (guitar).

Firstly, they focused on gothic doom metal music. After one year of practicing the band recorded demo that was sent to many companies. In 1996 Melissa Productions from Wroclaw and Croon Records from Kraków were interested in the material. At Domine signed a contract with Croon Rec. and decided to release "In Death's Dark Peace". One year later the band recorded 4 promotional songs in Beat Studio, Katowice. The music oscillates between gothic and death metal genres. That material was co-produced with Sator (now called Delight) and released in 1998. Some of the songs appeared on CD compilations of metal music magazines.

Jacek Regulski from Alcatrazz studio in Katowice recorded new material in 1999. The whole work was moving forwards gothic metal. Band members were changing. There was a new co-singer Brygida. After long preparations for the issue of the new CD, there appeared Dragan Records from Poznan that was supposed to release it. Unfortunately, it did not happen as Dragan Records withdrawn from the market. In spite of all difficulties, the band released CD by itself and promoted the material during the concerts. Among all songs there were chosen the most interesting ones and added to music magazines.

In 2005 due to new experiences and musical tastes, At Domine changed. According to audience the new music was a mixture of rock, metal and progressive. Throughout more than last ten years, the band has been giving regular concerts. It is also possible to hear At Domine on the radio. New band crew, gained knowledge, skills and professional attitude towards the matter made At Domine form something extraordinary. Constant problem with appropriate vocalist forced the band to create instrumental music, enriching the whole composition by astonishing sounds of violin.

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/at.domine <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/At+Domine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.