Unyielding, independent, and non-conformist are three words that best describe the band At Gunpoint. At Gunpoint is a band that incorporates real life situations of anger and frustration to create a type of extreme metal that is very aggressive, but has substance and meaning. Their songs are not written to achieve mainstream success, but to express passion and gratitude for what they do.
The members of At Gunpoint were brought together by the love of music and the desire for success. The band was formed in the fall of 2003, vocalist Travis Bailey, drummer Chad Brewer, bassist Tanner Thomas, and guitarist Jeremy Lowe are all veterans of the local music scenes in Chattanooga,TN and Atlanta,GA area. Each member incorporates a diverse array of influences to create a unique and original !-- of music. The band believes in utilizing many points of heavy music, ranging from dynamic melodies to the sheer brutality of death metal. At Gunpoint is a band that can go from body moving breakdowns into circle pit speed rhythms and then into a melodic bridge without weakening the song structure or sacrificing crowd interest.
The band works extremely hard on promotion as well as fan interaction. Each member believes that the fans play an important roll in the success of the band. At Gunpoint has managed to gain radio airplay on WREK 91.1 in Atlanta,GA and WRXR 105.5 in Chattanooga,TN. Through radio airplay and the Internet as well as promotion, fans can easily gain access to music or any information pertaining to At Gunpoint.
At Gunpoint is a band that brings confidence to any situation that they are put in. At every show whether there five thousand people or two bartenders, each member will leave every ounce of energy on stage. They use music as an outlet for any personal problems or frustrations so the performance is very intense. The band is constantly pushing the envelope everyday with the intentions of leaving their mark on the music industry. Each talent will be used to it's full potential to ensure that At Gunpoint will reign high in the music industry. Whether it is the raw passion and emotion for music, the deep seeded meanings behind many of the songs, or the sheer drive and determination of the members, this band is one that will rise to any occasion and deliver with a fire and intensity that many before them cannot rival. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/At+Gunpoint">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.