Being an unapologetic metal band, in an era of fabricated mainstream music hype, isn't the way to make the quick buck, but it is the path our band, At the Mercy of Inspiration, has chosen. Since our inception in 2000 we have conceived a sound consisting of death, black and thrash metal influences, based upon modern experimentation, rhythms and arrangements. Our last release was the EP ‘A Perfect Way to Kill an Evening' which we released independently last winter and have been touring and promoting since.

ATMOI's sound is aggressive, passionate, and chronically honest. Our heavy side is powerful and in your face, and our melodic elements aren't so flowery. Think Blood Red Throne, Centinex, Satyricon, Entombed etc. Our sound is energetic, fast, brutal and extremely heavy with a nod to our European influences.

We are proud of the acclaim our last record has garnered, earning many great reviews, and acquiring ATMOI a dedicated following. As much as we enjoy our recorded work, playing live is where we're at our best; right in people's faces, having fun and exorcising demons all at once. Our live show is blatantly cathartic and there is nothing we love more than sharing it with an audience. The reputation of intense performances has given us the opportunity of touring and sharing the stage with such great bands as Strapping Young Lad, Zao, The Crown, Converge, Hatebreed, Darkest Hour, God Forbid, and Throwdown.

Since the release of our record, and having played 100's of shows in the past several years, we have come into our own, and set our sights on serious goals. We have been writing profusely for a full length record we intend to record this summer, and are currently looking for an equally dedicated label to match the effort we are putting into our new material, which is far beyond any of our previous work. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/At+the+Mercy+of+Inspiration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.