Six members with six different heavy music backgrounds. At War With Gods have established a sound that encapsulates elements of frantic thrash pace and devastating breakdowns. The dual vocal attacks range from traditional hardcore to brutal death metal. With diverse influences ranging from Terror to Sworn Enemy to Cannibal Corpse to Slayer, At War With Gods have created a unique sound while staying true their roots.

To quote Matt Fox of Shai Hulud "At War With Gods are like Shai Hulud: Sounds like everyone, but sounds like no one."

Coming together in mid 2008, At War With Gods consisted of a group of friends who have individually had plenty of experience in the thriving Melbourne hardcore/metal scene, home to bands such as Mindsnare, The Red Shore, Carpathian, Her Nightmare and Samsara just to name a few.

From inception, it took only a few months of jamming to write and record four tracks with Roman Koester of The Red Shore, at Complex Studios in Melbourne. These tracks were used for demo purposes, but were later used as part of a digital EP, released online by the ‘Nothing But A Beatdown Records’ Digital Label, based in France. A further four tracks were recorded at Complex Studios in early 2009, establishing AWWG's unique and ferocious sound.

Early 2009 saw the beginning of the writing process for their debut full-length 'Nihilism.'During this time, At War With Gods began what would become a constant stream of touring outside of the borders of their home state. This tireless work ethic led them to play shows in Sydney, Adelaide, Hobart, Perth, Brisbane and everywhere in between, consistently adding to their ever-growing fan base. Rather than drowning in a sea of mediocre breakdowns and dream of climbing to the top, At War With Gods have taken it upon themselves to book their own tours, entirely self-funded and planned. So far this has proven to be well worth the effort. 

Things were improving in their home town, with more punishing headline shows of their own, as well as supports for major local and international bands, including Shai Hulud, Chimaira, Bishop, Mindsnare, Thy Art Is Murder, Confession, Dropsaw, Toe To Toe and many more.

In July 2010 At War With Gods self released their full length album 'Nihilism'. Recorded at Three Phase Studios Melbourne by Samuel Johnson (50 Lions, House Vs Hurricane, Against) and Mastered at West Westside Studios New York by the acclaimed Alan Douches (Aerosmith, Converge, Mastadon). This ten track release has proven that At War With Gods are a force to be reckoned with. The release was backed with a self-organised national tour of over 20 dates. Word of mouth spread about the intensity that is the At War With Gods live show, and the album gained more and more attention.

In mid 2012 At War With Gods were scheduled to release a new EP entitled 'Melbourne'.
Before actually being able to physically release the EP they decided it was time to end the band, their last show was at Pheonix Youth Centre in Footscray with Xibalba (USA), Warbrain, Ill Vision and Thorns.
They then put up 'Melbourne' on their Facebook page for free download.

Some members have gone on to form other bands and/or to focus on other projects such as:
Crowned Kings, Landshark, Bloodwolves and Cold Ground
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/At+War+With+Gods">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.