There are, at least, two artists known as ATG: 1) An urban contemporary artist. 2) A pseudonym of London DJ, Philip Anim.

1) An 'urban contemporary' artist, aka Ali “ATG” Francois. Like many young and aspiring artists, ATG felt a magnetic pull toward music early in life. Growing up in the culturally diverse surroundings of Miami, FL there was no denying the urban influence on his natural skill set. He began writing his own material at the age of 16, recording over hip-hop beats and sharing his work with his peers. As the musical climate was changing around him, he realized he would need to hone his skills further if he was serious about his passion. A self-taught producer, ATG is now a one man act, and at any given time prepared to unleash a hefty arsenal of musical capabilities onto any audience. “I started writing hooks in high school. Then that developed into writing rhymes which led to rapping, which led to production and songwriting, which eventually led to singing. I enjoy every aspect of making good music,” says ATG. 

Fighting to remain relevant in the turbulent nature of the music industry, ATG has found staying power on the local South Florida urban scene. Since 2004, ATG has released four mix tapes collaborating with local talent such as Young Hustlaz and Beach 2 Da Beans. His musical creations have received airplay on mainstream radio including 99 Jamz WEDR courtesy of the ever popular DJ Entice and also DJ Waggy T. He has found a niche in underground radio, making a home for his music at local stations such as Miami’s notorious 89.1 The Streets FM, 92.7 and 88.7. ATG has displayed his charismatic and undeniable stage presence while headlining shows with former group Beach 2 Da Beans at world famous Club Mansion and VH1’s “Best Hip-Hop Venue” SOBE Live in South Beach, lighting up local showcases such as Unsigned Hype presented by The Chunky Chicks, and even contributing musical performances to local South Florida High Schools. Most impressive, however, is the embrace he receives from the many other local artists on the South Florida urban scene. His collaborative resume’ is extensive ranging from rappers such as C-Ride, Phatz, Bizzle and Mista Mac to R&B artists such as Kirby Maurier. The list continues with support from DJs such as Maybach Music Group’s own DJ Sam Sneak and Jam Squad DJ’s, DJ Entice, DJ Griot, DJ Bulletproof, Mr. Mauricio, DJ Element, DJ Cox of Trunk Funk DJ’s, DJ Affect and the late, great DJ Big Will.

September 2009 saw the explosive debut of ATG’s “Mr. Do-It-All” mix tape and the most relevant source an independent artist could ask to find support from- the internet, has responded with rave reviews. His smash single “Drunk Sex” received support from fans and industry insiders alike. Notably, ATG has been featured on Miami’s own iblog126.com, globalgrind.com, urbanmusicdaily.com and hear-it-first.net, among many others. Blogs, social networking sites and music sharing sites have all embraced ATG’s R&B infused hip-pop sound. Most recently, ATG has released his single “Light It Up” which was hit for over 2,000 downloads in a 48 hour timeframe. 

ATG will be moving forward in 2010 with the continuously popular single “Light It Up” and has plans for a debut internet release of his smash single “Drunk Sex” which is expected to arrive in February. The multi-gifted and ambitious musical talent also continues to strive for a record label to call home, a place to house the unparallel abilities that make ATG so distinct from other aspiring artists. An upcoming EP is schedule for release as well, with production contribution from T-Nyce of Team Solo Music based out of Toronto. Much like his most recently released mix tape title “Mr. Do-It-All” eludes, his ability to write, sing, rap, arrange and produce is exactly where the future of urban contemporary music is heading.

2) A pseudonym of Philip Anim (aka Mampi Swift, DJ Swift, Kraft, DJ Mampi Swift & Swift), a London, UK DJ.

Sites: Discogs. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ATG">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.