Atlas Entity is a one-man progressive death metal band from the Tampa Bay Area.
bandcamp facebook soundcloud reverbnation
Genre: progressive death metal technical death metal
Contact: atlasentity@gmail.com 

Band
Alex Gallegos - guitars, bass, vocals
Samus Paulicelli of Decrepit Birth 
Mark Hawkins - guest solo in "Fissures" 
John Allan - guitar riff in "Upon the Crest of Solar Winds" 

Artist BIO
Atlas Entity is a one-man progressive death metal band from the Tampa Bay Area, featuring Samus Paulicelli of Decrepit Birth on drums for the EP "Enceladus".

I created Atlas Entity sometime in 2014 as a side project to my band (at the time), Proletariat Combat Machine. After that band split up, I took all the material I wrote and became serious about publishing it in early 2015. With the decent amount of material I had accumulated, as well as new riffs and sections I wrote, I began the initial phases of creating the first Atlas Entity album "Enceladus".

I decided I was going to make a trilogy of EPs that all shared the same concept, and it began with "Enceladus". Around March 2015, I started recording at my house using a DI box and a freeware recording program. My intent was to record everything as clean as possible and I would re-amp the guitars and bass in a real studio. So that's what I did. I began recording four songs. I also started the hunt for a drummer.

I spoke to several drummers to see if they would possibly drum for the EP, and wasn't able to land someone that was available and able to do it. I then sent Samus Paulicelli of Decrepit Birth a message to see if he would want to. I met him a few years ago in St Pete after they had just played an amazing show and never would have thought that he would be drumming to my guitar riffs. To my luck he did respond and wanted to do it - so I sent him the scratch tracks to get to work. About a week later, drums were completely done.

I also reached out to another very talented Tampa-based musician, Mark Hawkins, to see if he would be interested in recording a guest solo. He agreed and completely nailed an incredible solo in the second song, "Fissures". Working with both of these musicians was absolutely great and I hope I can work with them again in the near future.

By this point, I had been recording guitars and bass for about 5 months. I had everything ready - two guitar tracks for each guitar part, a guest solo, and complete drum tracks. I then got in touch with Dana Walsh at DEG Entertainment so we could get to work. In the past, I've worked with Dana on a few projects my old bands were working on, and it was a no-brainer when deciding where I should record. I needed the best quality and I knew DEG could do it. Plus, it's a lot of fun hanging out in studio with Dana, he is a blast to work with.

So there we go, here's where Atlas Entity is at now. I just finished recording vocals and now I'm completing the final steps of mixing and mastering "Enceladus". I will be releasing it this Sunday, August 9th, 2015.

My next goal is to record the next installment of the Enceladus Trilogy. I have material that I've been writing and I'm almost ready to start recording again. First though, I'm going to spend my time promoting this one so I can do all that I can to make it heard by as many people as possible.

Shortly after the release of "Enceladus", I will have physical copies available for purchase. Shortly after that, I will have t-shirts and other merch available.

That's about it. Thanks for checking out my band, make sure to give me a like if you want to stay up to date on my latest releases and news! \m/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Atlas+Entity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.