There is at least six groups called Atmosfear.  The first one is a funk/jazz-funk/soul group, the second one is a metalcore band from Sweden, the third one a progressive metal band from Germany, the fourth one is a death metal band from Mumbai (India),  the fifth one is an downtempo/instrumental/beat maker from the USA and the sixth and last one is a 5-piece band from Osaka, Japan that started as a Hardcore/Metal band, later evolved into a Shoegaze/Ambient/Electronica band and lastly coming back to their original sound in recent (2017) years.

1. Atmosfear were a UK jazz funk band formed in 1979. They consisted of bassist, and keyboardist Lester J. Batchelor, drummer Ray Johnson, guitarist Andy Sojka, saxophonist Stewart Cawthorne, and producer Jerry Pike. A year later singer and guitarist Tony Antoniou joined the main line up. Regular support musician / members of the band were keyboardist Peter Hinds, who has also been a member of UK jazz-funk pioneers Light of the World and Incognito, and percussionist Leroy Williams, a member of UK soul band Hi-Tension and who also played with Level-42. They were sometimes joined by horn man Alan Rapoport, Frank Roccoti, Carol Kenyon, and Rick Dejong.

Their most notable release was Dancing In Outer Space, which reached the Top 50 of the UK Singles Chart in 1979. Another double A-side single followed called Motivation / Extract which also charted in the lower regions of the UK singles chart. This track also became Radio One DJ - Pete Tong's club track of the year when it was released where Pete spun the discs at a club close to Brands Hatch.

Following a major disagreement with Andy Sojka the main group line up changed completely when Bassist Lester Batchelor left soon after the release of the single Xtra Special which he penned - featuring one of the UK's most renowned back ground singers Beverly Skeete. At the time there were two releases of Xtra special out at the same time - this was the cause for the split. The second version recorded in the USA was sung by Dollette McDonald then a member ex Police front man Sting's band . The new band members never quite captured the meteoric success of the original musicians. However even today the clubs and discos all over the world are still playing various mixes and re-mix versions of the original Atmosfear songs.

2. Atmosfear is a melodic metalcore band from Sweden. They released a new EP in 2011 called 
Forgotten Destroyed Deleted.
www.myspace.com/atmosfearsweden

3. In the autumn of 1996 drummer Olaf Sorgenfrei, bassist Burkhart Heberle (both of former band Coloured Dreams) and guitarist Boris Stepanow (of former band Into Neverland) decided to create an independent progressive rock project in which everyone is able to fullfil his very own demands on music. Within some time singer OLIVER WULFF and pianist STEPHAN KRUSE ( both of former band YAWP!) joined this Project to perfection. 

AtmOsfear is born. In spring of 1997 the band recorded their first 3-track-Promo-CD, simply named "AtmOsfear". The character and style of  AtmOsfear could not better be focused than in these 3-tracks.

Premium class independent progressive Rock with a perfect rythm section and a powerful & highly melodic voice, combined with screaming guitars and virtuosity keyboards.

From then on the bands aim is to perform their 2 1/2 hour repertoire in every location and club, playing with nands such as Poverty's No Crime, Charisma(Ivanhoe),Vanden Plas, appearining at the Headway Festival ( with Pain of Salvation, Freak Kitchen,Bumblefoot, sun caged, Loch Vostock, etc.) and recently-Evergey. Their latest release was the "Inside the Atmosphere" album.

4. Atmosfear, is also a Death metal band from Mumbai India, The band's music is hugely influenced by Six Feet Under, Napalm Death, Deicide, Carcass, Slayer, Cannibal Corpse and other such extreme metal bands. The constant line up changes in the band forced the band to remain inactive for longer duration also fulltime jobs of the members effected them a lot. Now with a stable line up, the band has made a mark in the local metal scene and are roaring for more gigs and shows across the country. 

The current band line up is:
Ulhas (vocals)
Bruce (vocals and guitar)
Orry (bass)
Mayank (drums).

www.myspace.com/atmosfearindia

5. http://atmosfearr.bandcamp.com/

6. Atmosfear is a 5-piece band from Osaka, Japan and formed in 1999. The formation happened by members from the split-up group Straight Savage Style (that split up in 1998) along with guitarist yori.
They started as a Hardcore/Metal band (music close in style to Straight Savage Style), along with some notable post-black metal elements. Then they changed to more to a shoegaze sound with Ambient/Electronica sounds and lost the rough-edge that came with the kind of metal they used to play. 

Shortly after formation they started working on new music and then in the year 2000 they released "Demon-Straight 1999", an 4-track EP. Years later they released a self-titled album consisting of 7 tracks and this got released in 2007, but now with a different sound that was much closer to shoegaze/post rock and with Ambient/Electronica sounds incorporated. 
Rumor has it they're working on a new album, with songs sounding as they did in their first era of hardcore/metal.

Current Lineup: ARO (Vo), Ryu (Gt), yori (Gt), AKI (Ba), Ryota (support Dr)

Official Page: http://furious.jp/atmosfear/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Atmosfear">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.