1.  Syracuse, NY hardcore band signed to 1917 records. They have released various 7 inches and a full length album entitled “We All Go Down Together.”

2. 80's group-concept conceived by David Frank & Mic Murphy from The System.
Members: Cindy Mizelle, Khris Kellow, Stephen Miller. They released only one album Pump The Nation.

3. Timothy Clayton was raised in a western suburb of Birmingham, Alabama in the community of Brighton, an area with very little access to musical or artistic scenes. Attitude's teen years involved several trips to jail. In between stints, he developed an interest for hip-hop which was nourished by the mainstream offerings from Miami, Atlanta, and New York City. As a result, Attitude developed a style that held true to his southern upbringing, but was greatly influenced by the East Coast lyrically. He started Centa Street Records with partner Wade Summerville, determined to develop Alabama's young talent in addition to enabling him to release his first album Serious Times in 1997.

Attitude's search for talent led him to a friendship with Bubba Sparxxx that would take both careers to the next step. Since their introduction, Attitude has toured with Sparxxx and appeared on his critically acclaimed second album Deliverance. The close relationship also lead Attitude to work with hip hop producer Timbaland, who signed him to the fledgling Beat Club Records imprint. Unfortunately, the label folded despite having over half an album's worth of recoded material.

He joined Warner Bros. Records's roster on January 9, 2007. His Warner debut album is set for a 2009 release. Producers are expected to be Timbaland, Danja, The Runners, Justice League, DJ Toomp, Drumma Boy, David Banner.

4. Attitude is a crossover/thrash band from California.  Attitude was actually a new band formed by former members of the band Attitude Adjustment, NOT a continuation of Attitude Adjustment by a different name, who was still active with different members while Attitude was active.  Released a bunch of EPs.  The band Attitude later changed their name to Two-Bit Thief who played in more of a hard rock/glam metal style than their Crossover/Thrash predecessor.  

5. Attitude is also a death metal band from Chile. Released a live album/demo in 2004.

6. Attitude is also prog metal/fusion band from Italy.

7. Attitude is also a slovakian punk band mostly active during the 80s.

8. Attitude M.F. was a trash metal band from The Hague the Netherlands. They released 1 studio album  in 1998 and shot a video clip for the song "Voiceless".

9. The Attitude was a collective of post-punk/garage style musicians based in Leicestershire which performed in the area in 1981. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Attitude">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.