Au Sacre des Nuits is a band formed by Necrophelinthron (All) and Nihil (Guitars).

     Formed in the year of 2005 under the name "Destroying Monumentum", they have two demo release named " Sui Caedare" (means "To suicide" in Latin) and "L’odeur du Bèton" ("The smell of concrete" in French)

     Au Sacre des Nuits started as a sintomatic reaction of conflicts generated by the post-modern life, age we start to be existent. Is a result of a eternal sensation of despair and no future perspectives for live with dignity with mankind, sensation who grows up with every step of ocidental-society (economic/social). This steps wants to recreate the existence, and not the life in all it's majestic planitude, as only possible form of social materialization. Life is not possible and existence is disgusted.
     The music played reflects the constant moments of coldness reigns over rationality human tendencies. Show us as microcosmic beigns in this logic common sense, destroying our wishes and put us in a stage where the power experiments give us force to subdue, or make us think we're subjugating. As final resolution of this problem, the cold and consious reject of existence, with all forms it can represent. But before the ostentation of free and libertarian violence against all the stuff who confronts life, of teoric-liberal moral to technic self-racionality used as our sponsorship. The liberation can raise from violent attacks to ethics valours who surround us in our existence in this places, but in final resolution means SUICIDE and REDEMPTORIST ULTRA-VIOLENCE.
     This is the second moment of the project, with a higher maturity obtained through passage of years and scars of experiences well proof. Against the course, against our tortuous experiences in the zeitgeist comes the cold solidity of conclusions, given also by our questions without any answers yet. A disregard from someone who don't talk with this world anymore.
     It is all about my time, iron and concrete, keeping myself apart from this romantic bullshit imposed by right-conservatives and left-liberals allied with the most different forms of representation of imaginary politicians and artists.
     I throw my eyes into the death's abiss like I'm looking to a new horizon.
     Let's talk about suicide.

     For unknown reasons, Nihil (Abske Fides) decided to left the band in 2007.



(taken from their offical myspace page) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Au+Sacre+des+Nuits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.