There are multiple artists with the name Audrey.

1. Swedish pop four-piece.

2. Five-piece rock band from Muskegon, Michigan.

3. New Jersey-based R&B/Soul singer-songwriter.

1. Swedish four-piece Audrey formed in Henån, Sweden in 2002 and started performing gigs in April of the same year. Having recorded a demo in the studio of an artist's collective in Gothenburg in the summer of 2003, the positive responses were immediate. During the summer and autumn they played more shows, selling over 500 demos in the process.

Moving forward a year or so, Audrey began to develop their sound. The embryo of their dark, suggestive pop took its first form in a run-down music house in the archipelago of Gothenburg. "It was really the worst place, the building was about to be demolished as we rehearsed there. The toilet was broken, the pipes had frozen and there were mice running around on the floor", says guitarist Victoria Skoglund.

Describing Audrey's music is no easy task. If the group has succeeded in finding a central theme, it's a balance in the melodies - shimmering, beautiful moments of pop meet dark sadness.

The harmonies (everyone in the group shares vocal efforts) shift quickly between keys and moods. Straightforward, conventional narrative is replaced by abstract meanings which strengthen the melodies. "I like it when the lyrics can mean different things, that we give clues to our audience. Sometimes we can write quite incoherent things, but we are looking for a feeling in the music", says Victoria.

Members:
Rebecka Kristiansson (bass, vocals)
Emelie Molin (cello, piano, vocals)
Anna Tomlin (drums, percussion, vocals)
Victoria Skoglund (guitar, piano, vocals)



2. Audrey is  a five piece rock band from Muskegon, Michigan. They released their debut "When We Were Young" in 2009 at Cornerstone College with producer Mike Cervantes. The six track ep mixed melodic hard rock and swooning ballads. In early 2010, Audrey shifted from a five to four. Drummer Micheal Greenbank moved to Indiana and was replaced by Kameron Chauvez. Guitarist John Tibbits left the group to pursue education and singer Everett Park picked up rhythm guitar duties. The newly formed quartet recorded In early 2010 at 3358 studios, and released "Acoustic EP 2010".  This album featured acoustic renditions of songs from "When We Were Young" and introduced new songs "Taking Comfort" and "Rhapsody On A Windy Night". In the fall of 2010, Audrey once again recorded at Cornerstone with Cervantis and in November  released "The Flyaway". Derek Gramza joined the group on guitar at this point.  More information on said band can be found at http://www.reverbnation.com/audreymichigan.

Members - Corey M. Bickford (guitar, vocals, and keyboards), Everett Parks (vocals), Shawn McMann (bass), Kameron Chauvez (drums), Derek Gramza (guitar, vocals)

Former members - Micheal Greenbank (drums), John Tibbits (guitar)


3. Audrey started singing the national anthem at major arenas and was recently featured on a Google commercial with Sampha that aired during the Grammys. Also, after a lovely freshman year at the NYU Clive Davis program, she is currently taking some time off to release music. She’s teamed up with producer Anwar Sawyer of RocNation and founder of indie label SMG Ent, to cultivate a new R&B electro edge.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Audrey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.