Augie March is an Australian Indie band. The group was formed in 1996, in Melbourne, Victoria, by singer/songwriter/guitarist Glenn Richards, drummer David Williams, guitarist Adam Donovan, and bassist Edmond Ammendola.
In 1998 the band expanded to include keyboardist Rob Dawson.

Sunset Studies (2000) was the band's first release. It was met with good reviews, and was moderate in its overall success.  

After time apart and the death of keyboardist Rob Dawson, Augie March returned to the studio to record their second full length album, joined by new keyboard player Kiernan Box. Strange Bird was released in 2002, featuring the single The Vineyard. Critical response was positive but both the album and the single spent just a single week on the charts.

Augie March's third album Moo, You Bloody Choir was nominated for four ARIA Awards in 2006: best rock album, single of the year (One Crowded Hour), best group and album of the year, but didn't win.

On the 26th of January 2007 (Australia Day) "One Crowded Hour" came in at number one in Australian radio station Triple J's annual Hottest 100 poll. The somewhat unexpected victor, Augie March surprised many listeners with their success, but were on the most part very well received by Hottest 100 fans.

The band released its fourth long player, Watch Me Disappear, in October 2008 in Australia, followed by a national promotional tour. The album's reception was more mixed than that of its predecessors but achieved the greatest commercial success to date, entering the ARIA Albums Chart at number four.

After an extended hiatus (which many thought to be permanent), the group reconvened, releasing their fifth studio album, Havens Dumb in October of 2014. The album was recorded at several studios in Tasmania and Victoria over several years and proved another stirring entry in Augie March's beautifully bent Australiana.

February 2018 saw the band release their sixth album, Bootikins. It was written and recorded in Melbourne and Hobart and was produced by Australian producer Tony Cohen shortly before he passed away.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Augie+March">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.