Please note three "Augustine" groups listed on this page.

1. Augustine is an indie folk group featuring Jordan Meredith and Louis Michael Johnson, who both appeared on the MTV show, "My Life as Liz". They met in St. Augustine, Florida and the two quickly recognized their shared passion for music, songwriting, and adventure. After forming Augustine, an electro-folk duo, they moved to NYC in 2009 and began playing guitar at venues all over the Northeast. Louis landed a spot on the MTV show, "My life as Liz" playing himself.  The television show airs in over 50 countries and thanks to LIz,  Augustine has found many friends worldwide. 

Over the last year, Augustine embarked on their first national tour of colleges, clubs, and festivals. Louis is a classically trained vocalist with a knack for arrangement, and Jordan has a naturally graceful style. Put them together, and you have the striking harmonies for which Augustine is known. The pair has recently moved to Nashville and are absolutely thrilled to be working with some amazing studio musicians on their first full length album, set for a January release. Refusing to be restricted to one genre, these kids mix it up with an acoustic/folk live performance and an electro/pop recorded demo. So, whether you're seeing them live or listening to them on your iPod, these two will surprise you every time.  

Augustine has two CDs. A self-titled CD, "Augustine" features seven of their original songs. Their second collection called  "Download Only" by Augustine is a collection of songs written in NYC.

© Johnson & Meredith 2009-12,  Transmogrify Music, BMI, All rights reserved. Augustine ® 
Both CDs are at: iTunes
CDbabys: http://www.cdbaby.com/Artist/Augustine3
www.Augustine-Music.com

2. Augustine is a 4 piece professional rock outfit hailing from the deserts of Arizona. With a wide range of influences from The Get Up Kids to the Foo Fighters, Augustine is set to take over in 2009 with their highly anticipated release “From These Ashes”. Stay tuned for more featured music and more great things from this band in 2009.

3.Augustine is a metal band from the Big Island of Hawaii. The current members of Augustine are Jeremiah Augustine (guitars), Blue Augustine (bass), Juan Robinson (drums), and Jerez Tehero (vocals). The band has one album titled, “Cinematic Masquerade,” which was released in 2007. Augustine has been featured on several compilations including releases by Terrorizer Magazine and Hawaiian Express Records. More recent material can be heard on the band’s myspace. 

4. Sara Baggini is an Italian songwriter. The name ’Augustine’ is taken from the hysterical woman protagonist of Georges Didi- Huberman’s essay 'Invention of Hysteria'. The condition of hysteria is assumed as paradigm of the artistic work, bonded to a complex feminine sensitivity. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Augustine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.