Aura Hiemis begun his work as a formal proyect in the year 2001 under the name of Mor Amarth with the participation of Lady Morwen in the female vocals and Lord Herumor V in vocals and guitars, but V was creating music years before, since he started to play in another bands from the year 1997. After a couple of months, Lady Morwen leaves the proyect.

In the year 2002, with the support of Morgalad (ex-Masaya,Target), V tryed to make his proyect a formal band incorporating two musicians in drums and female vocals, but the musical diference was stronger than the need of made a band.

The next 2 years V dedicate his time to play in Masaya but he keeps creating music by his own. In the year 2004 V deicided to make of his music a one man proyect and he finally called it Aura HiemiS. With the suport of Morgalad and Luis Soto from Masaya (now Target), V started to work in the preproduction of his first record.

In the summer of 2005 V made the Aura Hiemis's first album by his own with the support of his friends Masaya, Hazallet and Victor. Terra Umbrarum - Ruin and Misery it's the final name with 16 songs that was finally released the 5 of december of 2006 in a 55 hand numbered limited edition copies.

In june of 2006 Aura Hiemis Participates in the first compilation of Chilean metal bands of the site Dark Forum Metal (www.darkforummetal.cl) with bands as Nuclear, SarkuS and Poema Arcanus, few months later Aura Hiemis is invitated for the second compilation of the site launched on december of the same year where participates with the song de Tenebris featuring AinaLaer in female vocals who join the band few weeks before the copilation release.

In September of the year 2007 aina Laer leaves the proyect to dedicate her time to other proyects after almost a year working and playing with AH.

In september of 2008 the new album "While the rest of the world sleep..." its released with FunerArt records after a year working in the new songs. The recording of the album was posible with the support of Juan Escobar (Mar de Grises - Ad Noctvm - DefectoOscura) who recorded, mixed and masterized the album and also recorded keys and bass in some album songs join AH to the studio sesions in future too. 100 hand numbered copies are of " While the rest of the world sleep... " avalaible for everyone everywhere.

For the new album also participates Moundres and Draco (SarkuS - Hydra) and Selenia, all of them as guest vocals in the song "A Morning to fade away" Draco and Selenia has join AH as live members on bass and guitars each ones for the forthcoming gigs.

The V Empire Is Unleashed!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aura+HiemiS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.