The band was founded in 1998. in Brčko (Bosnia and Herzegovina), as a high school leisure activity. There it exists and plays actively for a year, mostly cover songs. However, during this period, some original songs were written, such as Poslednji san and Sunce sjevera.

At the end of schooling of then-members, the band breaks up. The first version of the band (that was active in Brčko) was called just Aura, with no special point or meaning.

The members and founders of the first Aura are: Mladen Lakić (guitar), Milan Adamović (drums), Miroslav Bjeletić (guitars and vocals), Andrea Kokotović (vocals), Boriša Damjanac (bass guitar).

After the band break-up, Miroslav goes back to his hometown - Lopare (Republic of Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina) and reforms Aura with his friends, except that a "plus" was added to the band name, which simbolizes a cross, and the band name itself got a meaning, an aura that radiates from the act.

Aura+ exists and plays from 1999. to 2004. when, because of no point of existence breaks up. In that period a lot of original songs were written and two home-demo albums were recorded: I još samo istina (1999) and Bdijem (2004).

The members of Aura+ (Lopare) are: Miroslav Bjeletić (guitar and vocals), Oliver Maksimović (keyboards), Aleksandar Bašić (drums), Dragan Pepić (bass guitar), Boris Janjić (guitar), Nemanja Milovanović (guitar), Irena Zeljić (vocals).

In 2004, Oliver and Miroslav go to Novi Sad (Serbia) for studies, so the band rarely plays and eventually breaks up. In Kikinda (Serbia), Miroslav meets Zlatko Ljubović and Damir Đuran and reforms Aura+ in Novi Sad. Oliver joins them and so Aura+ (Novi Sad) is created.

This Aura+ lasts to this day. The band played very rarely since the reformation in Novi Sad, mainly because of the frequent drumer changes. In 2007, Aura+ records their album Spomen Park, which they finished in march of 2008. Because of the publishers' lack of interest in the album, Aura+ decides to make it available as a free download on the internet, so anyone can have it.

The people that played in Aura+ in Novi Sad (excluding current members) are: Dane Radaković (bass guitar), Oliver Maksimović (keyboards), Maja Božanić (violin), Aniko Sabo (vocals), drums: Lada, Ivan, Atila, Marko, Damir and other one-day members.

Since its first formation, the band wrote about 70 original songs, and recorded only some of them.
The genre that their music represents can mainly be described as "who knows", and the band
members call it "roll".

Current band members:

Miroslav Bjeletić (rhythm guitar, lead vocal)
Zlatko Ljubović (lead guitar)
Damir Đuran (bass guitar)
Nebojša Barać (effects, keyboards
Tatjana Piškin (back vocals)
Dušan Nakić (drums)
Radmila Stanišić (cello)
Dušan Nakić (drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Aura%252B">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.