AUSHVITZ → SPINALCORD

Aushvitz, apparently named after the Polish town (Auschwitz is the German name for the nearby town of Oświęcim) which was the largest of the Nazi German extermination camps, is an indies band that seems to be on a break right now.
It’s very hard to put a label on Aushvitz, simply because most of their songs sound different from each other. In general, the majority of their songs are best classified as metal, however, they also produce touching ballads and piano songs.

Aushvitz was founded in 2002, by the members Kyoichi, Syu, Kon and A. All of the members, except for the drummer Kon, were previously in the band Valkyr. After that band split up in April 2002, and their vocalist joined Nana, guitarist Syu took over the position as vocalist in the newly created Aushvitz.

Even before they had released anything, A decided to leave the band. However, he did stay as a supporting member.

In September they released their first maxi-single, called “Akarui”. It was limited to 1000 copies, and sold out.
In December, they were featured on the compilation album “Yougenkyo –moon-“.

They had a few lives in 2003, and in February they released their second single, “Apeka no kairaku”, which was only sold live.
In April they released “Koi yabure, Suibotsu”, but a few months later the band’s activities turned silent.

The band’s vocalist and guitarist, Syu, is nonetheless still quite active as a musician. Apart from Aushvitz, he plays in Galneryus and ANIMETAL, and he’s also doing solo projects.
Syu is obviously appreciated as a guitar player, and has recently been featured in a guidebook Young Guitar Beginners 05, together with another fine young Japanese guitarist, Takayoshi Ohmura. Both of them get to show off their skills on a DVD, which came out with the book.

For over a year Aushvitz had been on a hiatus. In 2004 they played only fours lives, and in 2005 - two. However, they are definitely back now, with a new look, new member (a very young guitarist named Naoki) and in 2006, they released a new demo CD, "Haitoki no inori/Shishi metsuretsu." 

Writing credits:
Author: Kay [introductory paragraph]
Author: Andi & Kay (c) by jmusiceuropa.com [subsequent paragraphs] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/AUSHVITZ">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.