Harlem, New York’s Austin Millz has always been passionate about music and the process of creating it. After teaching himself Fruity Loops nearly a decade ago, his style and taste has evolved significantly his genesis. Birthed in a city ripe with culture, Austin was heavily influenced by the music-centric atmosphere of New York City, collecting vinyl from a young age and learning both piano and saxophone in his teenage years. He embraced the sounds of jazz, funk, soul and hip-hop before ever producing a beat.

Austin’s first break came in 2006 when a Loud Records/SRC A&R and legendary producer Sean C. hear his production and quickly took him under their wing. They encouraged and helped him develop his craft and helped broaden his visibility while slowly building the Austin Millz brand. Despite a promising start to a career in music, Austin recognized the importance of furthering his education and headed off to Penn State University to earn his undergraduate degree in Journalism. While in school, Austin continued to hone his craft and expand his network while being exposed to a variety of new genres, tastes and cultures that a college campus offers.

Upon graduating in 2010, Austin returned to Harlem to pursue music full time. Layering soul samples over hard-hitting drums with riffs on the saxophone and piano, Austin stacked up an arsenal of beats and prepared to debut his talents to the world. In February, 2012, Austin released his debut solo project Earned, consisting of 17 instrumental tracks produced over the course of a year. Earned gained acclaim from numerous digital outlets and encouraged Austin to take a step deeper into the trenches. Hungrier than ever, Austin continued to develop his craft while placing productions with Jim Jones, Maybach Music Group, G.O.O.D. Music, Wale, Troy Ave, and Hit-Boy. Austin describes his music as versatile, forceful, compelling and innovative. With cosigns like the ones he was able to achieve with only a few years of production under his belt, it became clear Austin would be a force to be reckoned within no time. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Austin+Millz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.