There are Three artists with the name Author

1) Author is the brainchild of Leeds based dubstep producers Jack Sparrow and Ruckspin. Author may be a fresh name on the scene, but the producer duo that constitutes Author are established names in their own right. Both Jack Sparrow & Ruckspin have proved themselves as highly gifted and hardworking producers, dedicated to engineering optimum quality sounds.

Following their first collaboration ‘Dread’ which was included on Jack Sparrow's 2010 album Circadian, as well as ‘Get Darker Presents This Is Dubstep 2011’, they formed Author as a shared project. Author represents the opportunity to experiment and celebrate musical sounds within the context of Dubstep. Several live musicians have recorded on the album, which is reminiscent of the overall style of production featured heavily on Ruckspin's label Ranking Records in years gone by. Author will include live production and guest musicians on tour. Removed from the pressure of the dancefloor, Author takes the baton from Kruder & Dorfmeister’s ‘K&D Sessions’, The Cinematic Orchestra and timeless Mo’ Wax recordings in exploring more spacious arrangements and sounds.

The debut self titled Author album is scheduled for release on Pinch’s label Tectonic on 14.11.2011 preceeded by an album sampler 12” in September. Pinch has already been noted online as declaring this could be the biggest album Tectonic ever releases. As a preview of their live show Author have released a video of a live version of ‘After Time’ as well as a live jam session that gives a taster of what to expect musically from an Author live show. The very first Author live performance has now been scheduled for Room 1 at Fabric on 04.11.2011 as part of the Tectonic room. 

2) Finnsh black metal solo-project of J.V.

3) Author is an Indie Rock four piece from Minneapolis MN. Their most recent release an EP entitled "People Are Alike Over" engineered and produced by Aaron Marsh (ex-Copeland) dropped May of 2012. Author just released their full length "Of Brighter Days" on January 15, 2015. Music can be streamed and downloaded from http://weareauthor.com/, Spotify, http://weareauthor.bandcamp.com/, or iTunes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Author">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.