There is more than one artist with this name:

1. Autism (currently known as Aortes) is a Lithuanian post-metal band from Vilnius, Lithuania, formed in 2012 by guitarist Tomas Daniševskis (originally as a solo project).

Members:

Tomas Daniševskis - guitar;
Karolis Lapėnis (Gilzeh) - guitar;
Linas (Red Water) - bass;
Domantas Lekavičius (Gilzeh) - drums.

Former members:

Gediminas Staponas - bass.

http://www.facebook.com/autismprojectlt

2. An experiMENTAL artist Vadim Militsin from USA (IDM, ambient, electro, noise). 
A founding member of AUTISM, Vadim Militsin was born in Georgia and raised in Germany. His early works composed in the mid 90's in Minsk (Belarus) bridged the gap between electronic pop and experimentalism, pioneering the intuitive use of old analog synthesizers from the Soviet era. Critically acclaimed by Christopher Franke (ex-Tangerine Dream), AUTISM's fundamental album <i>Membrana</i> is webbed with many ethnic samples. Since moving to New York in 2000, Vadim Militsin has been exploring more synthetic sound structures. Autism & Segment label


3. An Australian hip-hop artist:

Born and raised in Melbourne city, Autism began rapping in the early nineties and since day one he has represented the south side of Melbourne City. In 1995 Autism made his public debut on the iconic Steppin To The A.M. radio show and ever since that point has never looked back. Heavily influenced by local MC’s Skelpa & Scuffle of Def Poet Society, US artists Kool G Rap & D.I.T.C., Autism’s style of rap has always been high energy, raw, battle raps… with substance.

10 years since his radio debut, Autism is finally set to release his highly anticipated E.P. entitled “Five Tracks Of Adrenaline”. The E.P. is a constant barrage of epic beats, hectic rhymes and horrific stories of life on the other side of the tracks. With a stellar lineup of guest rappers and producers ranging from Melbourne’s own gutter rap king Bigfoot to the Melbourne beatsmith Unknown(Phrase, Deceptikonz, Doujah raze), Germany’s heat maker Shuko (T.I., Saigon, AOTP & Jae Millz), 5 Tracks Of Adrenaline ushers in a new era for hardcore Melbourne HipHop.

4. Grindcore from the Netherlands. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Autism">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.