The Swedish Oldschool Death Metal band Autopsy Torment was formed in 1989. The band started as a solo band of Thomas Karlsson, who's Autopsy Torment's frontman and singer, with Onkel on guitars. Later on (1991) the band turned into a trio with Karl Vincent (Sexual Goatlicker) on drums and Daniel Nilssen on guitars with the demo Darkest Rituals. After this demo a period of constant change of members took place with Thomas Karlsson and Karl Vincent as the core members with a number of demos produced.

In 1992 the band split up and Thomas Karlsson started black metal band Pagan Rites and later became the vocalist for the doom band Tristitia. In 1999 the 1991 line-up got back together with the addition of The Demon on bass and they wrote the album Orgy With The Dead which was released on Miriquidi Productions, and started writing the next album, Tormentorium. The band's lyrics are focused on murder, death, and gore. Painkiller Records was the last label the band signed at before they took a break. A new album, "Darkest Ritual of the 7th Soul of Hell" - Pulverized Records,  was released in July 2008 combining the demos "Darkest Rituals (1991)" and "Seventh Soul of Hell (1992)" together with some alternative versions and extra songs. Remastering done by Dan Swanö and cover art by Chris Moyen.

A new album is planned with a semi-new line-up: Devil Lee Rot (vocals), Daniel N (guitars), Björn (bass) and Hedlund (drums). 

Full discography: 
Autopsy Torment - Jason Lives - 1989 - Cassette Demo
Autopsy Torment - Splattered - 1990 - Cassette Demo
Autopsy Torment - Darkest Rituals - 1991 - Cassette Demo
Autopsy Torment - Satanic Sadist - 1991 - Cassette Demo
Autopsy Torment - Nocturnal Blasphemy - 1992  - Cassette Demo
Autopsy Torment - Seventh Soul of Hell - 1992 - Cassette Demo
Autopsy Torment - Orgy With The Dead - 2001 - CDR/LP/Cassette (Miriquidi Productions and City Of The Dead Rec.)
Autopsy Torment - Darkest Rituals - 2002 - 7" EP (Sombre Records)
Autopsy Torment - Tormentorium - 2002 - CD/LP/Lim.Ed LP (Painkiller Records)
Autopsy Torment - Graveyard Creatures - 2005 - LP (Die Todesrune Records)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Autopsy+Torment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.