There are 2 Bands called Autumnal: 

Autumnal was formed in 1996. Ricardo and Javier, together with the help of Andrés, created this band.  From the beginning, a perfect and mutual understanding existed among all the members of the band; and, as a result, these musicians were able to create a large, great repertoire and many other ideas just in a few months.

The style was defined five months later, in May 1998, when Miguel Angel joined Autumnal. The completed lineup had a good beginning, and, consequently, Autumnal had their first live gig in August 1998.  In this period, Autumnal also self-recorded and self-produced their first demo (demo98’). On the other hand, Miguel Angel had a parallel project and finally he had to give up the band. Fede, a really nice bassist, occupied his place. Later on, the band recorded their first studio Demo CD in September 2000, In my shell. However, Fede could not take part on this recording and Autumnal asked Miguel Angel for help, who joined back the band definitively and permanently. A month later, Sandra joined the band as violinist. After an unfortunate period, Andrés gave up Autumnal and Julio took his place as guitarist. 
Autumnal took part in Doomination of Europe 2003, together with Morgion, Mourning Beloveth and The Prophecy. But new projects were about to come. The next one was the recording of a second Demo CD The Age Of The Sin, which was finished in December 2003, again, self-recorded and self-produced.   When the work was almost finished, Guillermo took part in the recording process, adorning and concluding the job with his cello. After this meaningful experience, Guillermo joined Autumnal as cellist. Some months later, during the promo period for this work, Sandra, as well as Julio, gave up the band and Andrés came back as guitarist. 

In June 2004, Autumnal had a chance to be a support band for Anathema.  They accompanied this big band participating in all the Spanish shows they performed, obtaining an excellent response from both public and media.

In September/October 2005 Autumnal recorded the first album.  The band has a new line up, without Andres and Guillermo and is searching for a label to release and promote “Grey Universe”.

Currently, Autumnal is  distributing their most recent promo-cd “Promo 2000 – 2005”, created only for media. This CD contains 4 songs Autumnal´s older demos, “The Age of Sin” and “In my Shell”, too; and also 1 new song included in “Grey Universe”. 
With this release the band want to show all the evolution of their music, from the beginning  to the ultimate “Grey Universe”.


The Other Autumnal is a 2 piece black metal band from Santa Rosa comprising of Muse and (LL)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Autumnal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.