There is more than one artist with this name.

1) Autumn Leaves was a Danish melodic death metal band formed in 1993. They were originally named Decrial in 1992. The first album, "Embraced by the Absolute", was more of a death metal album while the second, "As Night Conquers Day", was more melodic. They split up in 2001.

2) Autumn Leaves is an Italian band founded in 2002 after the break-up of the previous group the “Night Dreamers”. With its initial line-up (Angela’s voice, Marco on guitar and Fabio on keyboards) the band performed about fifteen concerts in the pubs in and around Turin in the north of Italy. In March 2004 a new line-up was put together with Claudio Chessa playing bass and Ivan Tasinato on drums. For the whole of 2004 the band concentrated on preparing original material for their first album. During this creative phase, however, they still performed concerts both in Turin and in the surrounding region. During 2005 the group was recording material for their debut album and promoting their single “Morgana” which can still be heard today on the radio in the Piemonte area. In 2005 the band also participated in their first music competition, the “Torre di Avvistamento Festival” (Watchtower Festival) in which they were awarded second place both by a professional jury and by a common jury. At the end of April 2006 both Angela and Ivan, the singer and drummer, left the band because of private problems. Auditions were started immediately and at the beginning of May the group found its current drummer, Alessandro, and a new singer, Michela.

3) The Autumn Leaves from Minneapolis, USA, plays great psychedelic jangle pop and features mainstay singer/songwriter/guitarist David Beckey. They have been around since 1994, but their debut LP, "Treats and Treasures" only came out in 1997. The band followed up with "The Twilight Hours of The Autumn Leaves" in 2002 and have appeared in a number of compilations. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Autumn+Leaves">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.