Leading a new season in music, Dan runs a new, cutting edge solo metal project named Autumns Eyes. A deep combination of heavy metal, classic rock, and unique sound effects with an abundance of ultimate creativity and artistic direction similar to the great film composer Danny Elfman. Such bands as In Flames, Type O Negative, Dream Theater, Dimmu Borgir, and many other greats join the ranks of inspiration that make up what has become a revolutionary new approach to music. New sound. High Energy. A new season has come. 

Dan began his career in 1999 while playing guitar in an industrial metal band out of Connecticut, USA. After sharing the stage with such bands as Mindless Self Indulgence, and Apartment 26 his talents were noticed by other notable musicians who saw the band live. Two years after playing various shows around New England while shopping their demo the band dismantled, and the members went separate ways. During his down time in the band, Dan had put together a collection of instrumental songs recorded on a four track recorder which planted the seed for all Autumns Eyes music to come. After a 2001 move to Boston, MA the first full length album titled "Remember the Victim" was recorded. It featured a unique song structure which stood out to listeners as a non repetitive atmospheric brand of heavy music.

After numerous albums past, Dan recorded a five track EP titled "Surrender the Fire" in 2008. It received near perfect reviews from critics around the world, and began attracting new fans by the masses. "Surrender the Fire" also spawned the first music video from Autumns Eyes for the track "Feast of the Dead". The video was shot deep in the woods of New England, and on its Halloween release, was spotlighted by Headbangers Ball. Along with Headbangers Ball, numerous critics praised the video for its low budget horror style and intense musical atmosphere.

With 2009 marking the 10th year anniversary of Autumns Eyes, Dan has no intentions of slowing down. A new web site for the project plays host to almost the entire discography available for free download, sparking a buzz across the globe that spreads with each and every listen. In addition, an online store called Autumns Eves was opened where fans not only could purchase merchandise, but view a collection of models devoted to promoting Autumns Eyes. Now focused and more passionate about music than ever, intense practice, more and better equipment, and continued independent production, Autumns Eyes progresses towards a future of immeasurable creative potential. "This is the beginning of a whole new season in music!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Autumns+Eyes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.