Avalanch is a heavy/power metal band formed in Asturias, Spain in 1993.

Led by composer, producer and guitar player Alberto Rionda, the band has released 6 studio albums, plus a handful of compilations, DVDs and English versions of their works.

The Asturian band Avalanch takes to one long trajectory combining Heavy Metal of its beginnings with a more modern rock of doubtless metallic influence in the present, incorporating to its music elements of hard rock, pop and folk. Their discs are published in several European and American countries, and habitually make tours outside of Spain, mainly in Latin America. In 1993, a scale model long play in called vinyl format is published Ready To The Glory, with a totally different formation. That same year is gotten up to the band Alberto Rionda, that from that moment assumes the workings of composer and main guitarist and producing musical comedy of Avalanch. Fruit of this work, in 1997 sends their first professional disc, La llama eterna (eternal flame), recorded in Búnker Studies, study of Inn of Llanera (Asturias) that later would end up directing Alberto Rionda. With this disc, Avalanch causes a great impact in the Spanish scene heavy metal. It would not take in appearing the version in English of the disc, Eternal Flame, and in some countries as Italy or Japan were published editions of that English and Spanish work in.

Half-full the tour of this disc, Avalanch decides to do without its vocalist (Juan Lozano) and contacts with Victor Garcia (singer) so that one to them, beginning in Barcelona. It is then when Weeping of a hero enters the study to record El Llanto de un Heroe, a disc in which power metal was the predominant note, and that rotated to them by all Spain. From that tour arose Días de Gloria, a direct one that showed the moment that lived the band, and included a version in study of Queen, "Save Me", who was published like single. In 2001 the sold disc of the band is published more to date, El Ángel Caído, a disc that turns about Biblical, with one more a épica and evocative ambientación. Finalized the tour of presentation, the battery Alberto Ardines and the Víctor singer Garci'a ] leaves the group to form WarCry. Ramon Lage, Ex-Paco Jones, (that already had participated with the band doing choirs in previous albums) take the witness to the voices, and the battery would be Frame Alvarez, coming from Stormy Mondays and previously the Distillery. Also in this disc it collaborates Leo Jiménez, vocalist of Stravaganzza and Ex-Saratoga. They make an European tour in 2002 and are the only Spanish group in touching in the Wacken Open Air of that year, celebrated in Germany.

Once in Spain, more changes in the band. The tecladist White Iván and the guitarist Robert Garcia leave the formation and are replaced by the guitarist Dany Leon (of long trajectory in bands like the Distillery, Faith of Rats and many others) and the tecladist Junquera Robert (originating of the Asturian scene folk); giving rise to the present formation of Avalanch.

In 2003, Avalanch publishes its room disc of study, Los Poetas Han Muerto, where they let along the epic and fast sound to make a more personal rock, than it incorporates influences not strictly from metal.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Avalanch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.