There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) Avarus is a Finish psychedelic-folk band formed in Tampere in 2001. 
2) Avarus was a British death metal band formed in Exeter in 2007. The band split in 2011. 

1) Avarus is a Finish psychedelic-folk band formed in Tampere in 2001. They are considered to be the most important group of the finnish free-folk scene. Most of them were members of bands Anaksimandros and Pylon. After that our group has gotten larger and looser, but the spirit is still the same. People have come from other groups like Kiila, Munuaissymposium 1960 and Kemialliset Ystävät. The borders between the bands are sometimes quite loose. There are about 10 core members in Avarus in three different cities, and the number of occasional members is 10-20. But it's not at all important to know who's playing and when. It's about a collective sound, a play or a game.
Avarus's sound is primitive, child-like, joyous and free. They play long improvisations, from which they choose the most listenable parts for the records. Live shows also contain the searching-for-the-sweet parts. Music changes a lot, because it's not about trying to sound like something, but just playing how they feel like playing and it changes all the time. That's why one day they may sound like a duck sucking an empty playmobile pack when another day they are closer to angels accidentally re-inventing sport rock.
The playing for them is about giving themselves completely to the stream of sound. It's improvised, like a conversation, but there are billions of different conversations and billions of ways to be a part of one. It's not forbidden to yell or fart when others are talking about falcons.
There have been raising some other projects too, like Maniacs Dream, Kukkiva Poliisi and Paivansade. The first mentioned is most closely related to Avarus. The approach is in a similar way free and "punky" but more noisy, distorted and electric. It's also more hi-fi, because of different recording methods. Because of that, the sounds meet each other in a different way than in Avarus' music. When Avarus' sounds fuse to one, Maniacs Dream's sounds move between parallel realities.
Because they are in love with each other and with the other people in "the Finnish underground", there are lots of nice stuff and projects happening. One of them is Piirustuskerho ("Drawing Club"). It's about producing lots of collective drawings in a similar mood and approach as the music.
And don't forget Lal Lal Lal records! It's a label run by a few Avarus' members. It concentrates in every kind of visionary, enthusiastic and whole-hearted music.

2. Avarus was a British death metal band formed in Exeter in 2007. Their debut EP, "Upon Thrones Of Gold", was released in September 2009. The band toured the UK and played with bands such as All Shall Perish, The Acacia Strain, Despised Icon, Beneath The Massacre and Sworn Enemy, to name a few. The band split in 2011.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Avarus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.