There are two bands with the name Avataria.

1)
Avataria is a Philadelphia, USA-based shoegaze / grungegaze / experimental rock artist, but will record whatever inspires. Avataria self-released her debut "Unrealitie EP (2011)" as a free download. Avataria was part of "Basment Sessions Vol.1" (2011), adding vocals to "2 Pitas", which features members of Kandi Coded, Mothers Anger / Reignwolf. 

Currently, Avataria has a song "Traffic Lights" on the 'Ear to the Ground (Vol.1)' compilation on Otro Mundo Records (Portland) and her most recent single was "Second Genesis". 

Avataria is presently writing songs, working her ass off, and plans to release a full-length in 2013. Avataria is inspired by: Soundgarden, Sleigh Bells, PJ Harvey, Clint Mansell, Nine Inch Nails, Bjork, Portishead, Dionvox, Queens of the Stone Age, various authors and poets, outer space / science, and so much more. 


2)
AvatariA was formed at the end of 2009 by the guitarist and vocalist Tommy Tuchlinski out of a former Berlin-Bandproject. Only within nine months, the demo 'I was Born' and the first album 'The Matrix Falls' were released, which proofed that AvatariA was able to find it's very own sound in the dark & doom-metal genre. While performing live, the Berlin-members are able to create a deep emotional denseness for the listeners. This is achieved by the charismatic voice of the singer Tommy and by the sophisticated musicianship by the rest of the band. 

AvatariA consciously dares to mix very different kinds of music together and therefore creates it's own, unique musical genre. The Mysticism and the unknown, the darkness and the melancholy, they all blend together in a form of pure energy and shape the characteristic sound of the band, influenced by doom, black and heavy-metal. There is a reason as to why AvatariA does characterise itself as the land of the gods. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Avataria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.