It all started in 2009, when a new band, Avidity For ... was formed on the ruins of the ARBES formation. Symphonic elements in the music determined from the very beginning our direction in which the work will go. The success did not take long and we recorded the first "demo" in Pilsen in the Accent studio. In collaboration with Pavel Čengery, four songs were created on a badge, and one of them managed to shoot a video for a few years together with SB production, which appealed to the band. The line-up at that time - Jary Novák, Pavel Vaněk, Roman Schneider, Jiří Kočí.

The first earthquake came in 2013 and there was an exchange for the position of guitar, came Mates Fiala. He started pushing a harder style of playing, replacing heavy metal riffs with harder and more striking ideas, and for all of us it was a step forward. So we were in the line-up of Jara Novák, Pavel Vaněk, Mates Fiala and Jirka Kočí.

Another shock came in 2014, when Lukáš Korschinský appeared on the drum stool. After two passed rehearsals, without a singer, we advanced to the muse talent competition at the first concert in the new line-up, so good. If Mates used to say music, now we've felt it twice. After a long time, new ideas, new songs and, most importantly, the first full-fledged album began to flock.

This happened in 2015, when in the autumn, again at Pavel's in the Accent studio, we recorded a CD with eight seeds called "You'll get over your destiny:" And it was really hard work ... but pleasant.

The baptism of this badge took place in February 2016, when our godparents were friends from Concrete and the Prague pack Anacreon. There was a turning point here, when there were some disagreements about the continuation of the band. All this eventually (and there was little) resulted in a change of singer, when Jary was replaced by Lukáš Justich.

In the new period, after which the album released in 2018 was called - RESTART - we began to penetrate more significantly into major and larger events - random support bands Kreyson, Debustrol, Bridear (Japan), Metalbarsfest or Úslava rock fest.

And this is what we look like now: Singing Lukáš Joy Justich, bass Pája Vaněk, guitar Mates Catfish Fiala and Lukáš Koršes Korschinský beats the drum. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Avidity+for...">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.