Guide us to our ..graves.. 

– A BRIEF STORY ABOUT AVOID THE PAIN....

When a city becomes a milestone on the history of metal, we know that many bands come out from there in a generation full of new ideas. Ideas which don’t get lost along the way, but evolve and adapt, heading to the future.


This city transpired and respired the best of extreme metal and from it has grown the most memorable bands of Brazilian extreme metal. Nowadays we can hear the echoes of riffs of bands like Sarcófago, Overdose, and many others.


Belo Horizonte is the name of this city, hometown of the most succeeded Brazilian metal band, Sepultura. From the same flesh, the strength of the blood flow continues and still today, can generate a band that not only take care about its predecessors, but bring innovative ideas to search for a place on today’s metal scene.


We are talking about Avoid the Pain, formed in the end of 2006 by guitarist and vocalist Rodrigo Arruda and drummer Pedro Leão in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. The band has as main influence the contemporary Death Metal bands, such as In Flames, At the Gates and Dark Tranquillity. Other musical styles that influences the arrangements and themes are the Contemporary Thrash Metal, for example Lamb of God and The Haunted and Doom/Gothic Metal as Sentenced and Amorphis.


The name Avoid the Pain may has two meanings. The first is related to the fact that human being overestimates little things and, when they lapse, it causes pain. And one way to avoid this pain is always think that, living that way, after the death your life has meant nothing. It is a name that causes reflection. Another meaning can be assigned to those situations in which a person thinks his life is empty, useless and only means pain. Trying to avoid the pain, they end up in search of death as a solution. These meanings can be found in the themes of the songs that deal also with human nature: fear, introspection, thinking gloom, dark, which are not brought to the surface to cause outrage in us and in others.


In the year of 2006, with some compositions already made, Rodrigo and Pedro invited Lucas Oliveira as additional guitarist. Bassist João Marques joins the band in the beginning of 2007 and, until the middle of that year, Avoid the Pain passes through a process of practice sessions and musical composition.


After some gigs in the capital of Minas Gerais and with a increasing number of compositions, the band records its first EP in April of 2008. Despite the fact of …About Blades and Graves contains only 3 tracks, the well done production helped to obtain a great recognition among the media and audience. Hence, the EP crowned the 18 months of band’s work.


In the beginning of the second semester of 2009 the band starts the process of recording of its debut album, Death Bullets Dead End. The record, mixing, and mastering occurred at WZ studios. Was produced by Alan Wallace and Andre Márcio, both members of Eminence. Predicted to be released in September of 2009, the album is expected with anxiety by the specialized media. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Avoid+the+Pain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.