Avulsed was created in 1991 by vocalist Dave Rotten, bassist Lucky, drummer Toni and Haemorrhage man Luisma. With this line-up a demo tape,'Embalmed In Blood', emerged and by November of that year guitarist Jose Cabra was enrolled. Five months later a second effort,'Deformed Beyond Belief' was issued as Avulsed began playing live scoring gigs with CANCER, CEREBRAL FIX, GOMORRHA and INTOXICATION pushing sales of the demo beyond the 1,200 mark. A live tape, 'Live In Perfect Deformity' was also issued.

The hard work paid off in September 1993 when Greek label Molon Lave Records offered a contract. Avulsed's 'Deformed Beyond Belief' sessions becoming one half of a split CD shared with Greek act ACID DEATH. During December of that year Toni quit and Avulsed made up the ranks with former INTOXICATION man Furni.

1994 found Avulsed gigging alongside Lusimas's side project Haemorrhage. Releases that year saw the 'Carnivoricity' 7" EP emerging through the German Malodorous Mangled Innards label featuring two originals and a cover of 'Demoniac Possession' by Chilian act PENTAGRAM. A mini album of the same name was issued in June adding extra tracks including more covers in 'As I Behold I Despise', originally by Finnish act DEMIGOD, and a take on BRUJERIA's 'Matando Guerros'.

Discontent within the Avulsed ranks as to their guitarists commitment to their act forced Lusimas dismissal as Avulsed drafted erstwhile SACROPHOBIA guitarist Juancar for gigs with HELLBOUND and VADER followed by European dates in February 1996 together with SINISTER, CREEPMIME and DARKSEED.

Lucky departed just prior to the release of 'Eminence In Putrescence' in November 1996. In now a now established tradition the record would contain a cover version, this time a rendition of Barón Rojo's 'Resisire'. Colombian label Quirofamo Productions would issue a collection of early demos and live cuts, including a cover of the ASPHYX track 'Mutilating Process', billed as 'Seven Years Of Decay' in September of 1999.

The 'Stabwound Orgasm' album would amply illustrate the band's ascendency selling more than double it's predecessor in Europe alone. In Russia the album, complete with bonus tracks, was licensed to Irond Records. World War III Records would also take the album for North America.

As 2001 Avulsed announced the signing of a new record deal with the Avantgarde label. The band would headline the Murcia 'Clash Of The Helmets' festival the following month, topping a bill over SOLARIS, THE AWAKENING and ETERNAL CRY. During March Avulsed issued a limited edition mini album 'Bloodcovered' comprising entirely of cover songs. Bands honoured included MORBID ANGEL's 'Immortal Rites', CARCASS' 'Embryonic Necropsy And Devourment', CANNIBAL CORPSE's 'Edible Autopsy' and SODOM's 'Magic Dragon' and a live version of SEPULTURA's 'Inner Self'.

Touring would find Avulsed appearing in America at the April 'Metal Meltdown' festival in New Jersey and closer to home at the Portuguese 'Steel Warriors Rebellion' festival.

A new studio album, 'Yearning for The Grotesque', initially set for a November 2002 release through the Italian AvantGarde Music label was pushed back to an early 2003 release. However, the record hit a further obstacle when the pressing plant refused to reproduce the band's original suggestions for cover art. Avulsed signed with Slovakian label Metal Age Productions in January of 2004 for the release of the band's fourth album. The group entered VRS Studios in Madrid to record 'Gorespattered Suicide' in July. The album, which included a cover of MOTÖRHEAD's 'Ace Of Spades', would be mixed by HATE ETERNAL's Erik Rutan at Mana Recording Studios in Florida.

Avulsed's 2005 'Gorespattered' world tour took the band to Japan , Australia and New Zealand in April followed by festival appearances at the German 'Fuck The Commerce' event, the London 'Deathfest' and Czech 'Obscene Extreme' show.

The group opened 2006 with the EP 'Reanimations' through Electric Chair Music, this set including a brace of new tracks in 'River Runs Red' and 'Foetal Consolation', a remake of a song from their 1992 debut demo 'Unconscious Pleasure' plus three cover songs, W.A.S.P.'s 'I Wanna Be Somebody', GOREFEST's 'Mental Misery and EXODUS' 'Piranha'. Bonus tracks comprised no less than eight Avulsed cover versions performed by five Spanish acts, TERRORISTARS, KAOTHIC, WITCHES' SABBATH, Byleth and Abÿfs, plus three international bands in Argentina's IN ELEMENT, Algeria's CARNAVAGE and TWISTED FATE from Australia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Avulsed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.