Awaiting Dawn is a progressive metal/progressive rock artist from Frankfurt, Germany. 

The band started out in 2006/2007 basically as a follow-up to two previous bandprojects, at that time yet a band located between heavy metal and alternative rock. 
The original line-up consisted of Felix Benz (drums), Christoph Krämer (Vocals), Matthias Platz (guitar), Benjamin Reiter (guitar, vocals) and Maik Seckler (bass).
Everyone was quite motivated and tried their best alongside job and study business. The band would continuously rehearse and perform and recorded a first demo in 2007 ("The Prisoner"). 
However, there was a lot of space for development which allowed the band to advance in style and playing ability. All of the band's original members had a huge sympathy for complex rhythms, scales and harmonies. Artists like Pain of Salvation, Wolverine, Fates Warning, Meshuggah, Tool, Porcupine Tree, Dream Theater and the like were the most important influence.
During the years, the songwriting advanced further more to finally find the particular own sound and musical identification. 
In the middle of 2008, Christoph Krämer left the band due to personal differences and Benjamin Reiter took over lead-vocals, simultaneously preserving his role as a guitarist. The band decided to continue as a quartet. In late 2008, the band recorded their first EP "Changing Days", meanwhile clearly evolved to a prog metal band, and self-released it in 2009. 
A time of almost only live events passed and the band more and more craved a keyboardist to complete the gap in the sound the band always imagined.
They finally found their man in Peter Schnur, luckily meeting each other at a common gig with another band Peter were playing in. After being attired in the band's style, Peter joined the others shortly after and completed the band's lineup, after what the song material was rearranged and expanded. 
In the middle of 2011, the band was forced to do a longer break as Felix Benz (drums) battled a skin cancer disease. Luckily, the guys could continue in 2012, though Matthias Platz decided to leave the band due to health and job reasons at the end of that year. He was shortly after followed by Wolfgang Schneider on Guitar in early 2013, who was originally a bass player, but converted to guitar for Awaiting Dawn. With this new line-up, the whole material was revisited once more and then presented live on various occasions. The band participated in german contest “SPH”, proceeding to the semi-final and receiving terrific feedback. 
In the middle of 2015, the band finally started recordings for their long-term planned debut LP which endured until spring 2016. The recordings were done partly at Bazement Studio Hünstetten and other locations, the final mix and mastering was done in the very same studio. 
In spring 2016, Awaiting Dawn performed as support act for popular german progmetal act “Vanden Plas”. Not very much later, the album was finished and named “Leave No Trace”, a title symbolizing the melancholic concept of the band. In huge personal effort, the band shot a videoclip to the song “The Bountiful Colors Of Black” with the ambitious filmer Christophe Maaß. 
The band is now heading to release their debut album and present themselves to a bigger audience.

Official Website
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Awaiting+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.