There are eleven artists with the name "Awake".

1) Pseudonym used by Italian composer, conductor, producer and keyboardist Oronzo De Filippi, who released more than 40 records in the 1970s and 1980s, many of which are now highly sought after, and regarded as seminal classics in the field of soundtrack and library music.

2) Awake from Cambridge, England (http://www.myspace.com/awakeuk)
Metal heads, AWAKE like nothing better than hitting the stage live & loud, it's the only way they know how. Commanding the stage with a bone shaking wall of sound, the fans know that it’s all about to get hot and sweaty, before joining in, rebounding the energy right back. Playing songs from their crowd pleasing Prog days but now mixed up with songs from the forth coming album that will blow your minds. The new songs are filled with blistering riffs and heart wrenching melodies. This album will reach the hearts of all metal rock Genres. The vocals from Simon Shedwell are oustanding. Never like this before has his talents shone through, one of the most underrated metal vocalists out there.


3) Awake from Coral Springs, FL:
They are a melodic influenced hardcore band. 

4) Awake from Bulgaria: www.myspace.com/awakebulgaria
 Awake is a Bulgarian rock band formed in 2002 in Sofia /Bulgaria/. The band, led by frontman and co-founder Ivan Ivanov, has gone through numerous lineup changes since its formation. Now the members of the band are Ivan Ivanov (vocals, guitar), Zhelyaz Zhelezov (drums), Andrea Samengo (guitar) and George George (bass).

The acclamation of Awake.. music comes in 2004 when they win three awards by the popular Bulgarian radio station BG Radio. Two of them are in the contest "BG Talents" and the prize is just what the band wants - audio and video recording of their first rotated single. The song is called “Za neya” /”About her”/and it turns into a hit released in three different Bulgarian music compilations. The third award is from the annual BG Radio music awards 2005 in the "BG Discovery" category.

Not only “Za neya” but another song – “Trapka” /”Thrill”/ is released as a compilation track. The name of the compilation is “Playlist” and includes 15 bulgarian rock and alternative tracks in their first release ever.

In the end of 2005, the band changes it’s drummer with Zhelyaz Zhelezov (ex Portocal, P.I.F.). That change is prompted by the new harder sound and direction of the band. Awake orientate their music to the big stage performances.

This moment is marked by the second single of the band – “Plain story”, released in the beginning of 2006. The song is in English and it doesn’t reach the mass success of "Za neya", but it earns many new rock fans for the band. “Plain story” is played by all Bulgarian rock radio stations and some online Medias such as pulserted.com – UK. In the meantime Awake is already playing at the big rock festivals in Bulgaria and at Exit’06 /Serbia/.

On 17 of December Awake release their third single called “Little bliss”, which gives the name of the debut album of the band, released later the same month. The song is nominated for “Best Rock / Alternative song” on the MMTV /Bulgaria/ awards ceremony.

The album is produced by Pacific studio (owned by the drummer of the band) and it contains 11 compositions. Ten of the songs are in English. The only one in Bulgarian is “Trapka” in new unreleased version. The third single from this album is the song called “Away”.

With the album “Little bliss” Awake uncover themselves as a modern rock band, influenced by the spirit of the classic rock of the 70’s and the grunge music of the 90’s, finding their identity in the modern sound and vision.

Awake have frequent appearances on scenes at venues in Sofia /Bulgaria/ and province and in festival events like “Berkrock”, “Rock in Rila”, Exit'06 /with bands like Franz Ferdinand, The Cardigans, The Cult, Billy Idol etc/, Apoloniya, “Spirit of Burgas”,“Rock School festival”, Seattle Night etc.

5) Awake from Colombia:
A emocore/post hardcore band from medellín.

6) Awake from Groningen, NL:
http://www.myspace.com/awake95

7) Awake from Poland:
A hardcore punk band.

8) Awake from Germany:
 After their foundation in 2000 awake can look back on an interesting and diversified journey throughout the last years. In this time awake's way led from their rehearsal room in an old cellar to the "Neue Flora" theater in Hamburg, from youth festivals to village fairs, from a penitentiary to a football stadium and after two demo EPs to their first longplayer "fragments", being released in 2006. awake's live appearances are as diversified as their previous career. In 2005 they celebrated their 5th annual with a huge birthday concert in front of numerous fans. Following the first place at the Mönchengladbacher "Band-Stand" Contest, bringing them to the semi-finals of the German "Rock und Pop Musikerpreis". As a result awake decided to produce their first longplayer "Fragments". awake got support from Achim Kaiser from Sonic-Sound-Studios in Viersen/Germany ending up in a co-production.
awake dissolved in 2008. 

awake were:
Markus Schlaak - Vocals
Christopher Janowski - Guitars, Backing Vocals
Michael Sliwak - Guitars, Backing Vocals (powerfischi)
Christoph Borsbach - Bass (dr_jekyll832)
Volker Glasmachers - Drums

9) Awake from Japan:
They started as a session band (絵流宮☆涼太の憂鬱様) in 2009, but the line-up was slightly different. Eru, Naotsu, Sayuki and Fuga (Shibito) were already in the band though.
Then, in 2011, they became Decoration☆Boys. During their last live on June, 30th, Eru announced that they will become an actual band. On August, 1st the name of the band and the line-up are disclosed. 
They played their first live on August, 29th, 2011 at Shibuya duo MUSIC EXCHANGE.

10) Awake from Romania

AWAKE is a Dream Theater Tribute Band 

11) Awake, is an American rapper, singer and songwriter from Chicago, Illinois.

Robert Eugene "Bobby" Crimo III (born: September 20, 2000), better known by his stage name Awake (stylized as Awake the Rapper), is an American rapper, singer and songwriter from Chicago, Illinois. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Awake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.