Upstate NY-born, NYC residing emcee AWAR has been releasing music since 2005, finally having a break through impact with a string of powerful albums, EPs, singles and visuals engrained with vision, razor-sharp lyricism, powerful messages and concepts, box cutter quotables, soulful prowess, strong song-writing ability, and an undeniable ear for top shelf production. 

In 2011, AWAR released two EPs, "Things Of That Nature" and "Nature Of The Beast" with production credits from The Alchemist, Frank Dukes, Ayatollah, Sid Roams, Vanderslice, M-Phazes and more. \ XXL Magazine, which featured AWAR in "The Break" section of both print and online versions. His single "Standout" featuring Joe Budden (of Slaughterhouse fame) spent over three months on the college radio and grassroots buzz charts, peaking at the #1 position. AWAR released videos for EP singles, "Soul Caliber", "My Story", "Orange Boxcutter" and "Laws Of Nature Promo" to critical acclaim and fanfare. 

AWAR's 2012 release, "The Laws Of Nature" is considered his true debut album, available on CD in retail stores around the world. The album boasts an impressive All-star line-up of producers and features including The Alchemist, Nottz, Jake One, Sid Roams, M-Phazes, Vanderslice, Sebb, Evidence, Joe Budden, MURS, Latoiya Williams, Roc Marciano, Stat Quo, Has-Lo and more. 

AWAR's strong effort has recieved coverage from various media outlets such as Music Choice, XXL Magazine, The Source, Allhiphop.com, Skope Magazine, HipHopDX.com, DJBooth.net, 2DopeBoyz.com, Thisis50.com, Nahright.com, FreeOnSmash.com and many more. He released official videos for "Tunnel Vision" (Prod. Alchemist) and "Never Break Me" Featuring Evidence (of Dilated Peoples), "Dreamin' and "Keep Risin'" (Prod. Nottz) 

 A new force in the hip-hop world is present as NY's premiere spitter AWAR continues to impress new and old fans with real music. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Awar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.