There are two artists with the name Awful.

1. Brutal death metal/grind band from Italy. Formed in 1989 in Inverigo/Solbiate Arno, Lombardy, they released three demos before splitting-up. From the band's official page,

The musical project Awful was born in January '89 thanks to Vanni Casati (vocalist) that comes out to transmit his passion for metal to many friends of infancy, Originally the band had English Thrash-Power tendency and recorded an acceptable demotape.

But while Vanni gave soul and body to the music, the other members (alternate in the course of the years) didn't take the same engagement.

About The End Of '93 Vanni met Mickey (ex guitarist of Graves, Cursed and Rebus Oritur). Mickey was fascinated about the devotion of Vanni and decided to come in Awful. In the meanwhile the drummer deserted Awful and so Vanni decided to play the drums continuing naturally to sing. In the beginning of '94 the rhythmic guitarist and the bassist were sent away and Vanni and Mickey came to fidelity arrangment for Awful. Then Luca (ex bassist of Cherry Wine) arrived and so the line up, the race and the ambition were carried out.

01.02.94 is the date of birth of new Awful.

Vanni vocals and drums, Luca bass, Mickey guitars. In the first demotape (and for the moment the only) the race is death metal (first Obituary, first Death) but now we are trying to insert brutal influences (like Sinister, Napalm Death) so to add more technique with the greatest speed (and to exasperate the race). At the moment is difficult to realize many songs because we are in search of musical personality and originality, anyhow we have 15 our songs and play 4/5 covers of other bands (Venom, Possessed, Obituary, Death) and we are working to next demotape with brutal death influence, that will contain 5 unpublished songs (no noise, no chaos, but very important iperspeed brutal death).

2. Awful is one of the many musical projects of Elliott Hird. This one is a collaboration between him and his father, and only one album was ever made by the two. It was called "Ridiculous EP", and contains one song called "Terrible". A second release by the two is unlikely, but is possible. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Awful">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.