Axewielder started up in February 2001 after we (the founding members Andrew Axewielder, Tom Terrorfire and Dave Demonizer) had comsumed a good dozen high voltage drinks and thought it would be a great idea to play some songs with pure rock´n´roll sounds.

We hit the rehearsal-room and wrote our first songs in just a very short time. Without working out the songs well, we decided to record our first demo-tape. Really, it just was a live recording of a bad performance!

The demo was called Heavy Metal Law and split the scene.

Nevertheless Metal Coven Records showed interest in releasing a split single with Axewielder and Heathen Hoof. So we began to record two of our songs in a more professional way. The single featured the songs Heavy Metal Werewolf and Steel Force.

At the end of the recordings we also played our first live show. But starting up with the after-show party before playing wasn´t the best idea we had. You´ll know what we mean if you were there to see it!

As the single was sold out very soon, we entered the studio again to record another five songs for the planned release of our 10" picture Mini-LP. The release was entitled Heavy Metal Law again.

With the release of the Mini-LP, founding memnber Tom Terrorfire left the band. After working a short time as a two-pece, Pat Pulverizer joined us in the spring of 2004. The songs we wrote throughout 2004/2005 just killed and we recognised that a second guitar player was necessary to create a more powerful sound. So Armin Flames was recruited as second guitar player at the end of 2005.

Since then we concentrated on working out new killing material.

Seven new songs were recorded in 2007. Together with three old (never before released) tracks we will unleash them on a 12"-LP.

The as The Nightcrew entitled LP was released in April2009 again in cooperation with Metal Coven Records. It came along on 525 copies of clear vinyl. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Axewielder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.