The foundation was laid in the cold autumn, in November 2007. Two friends, Denis and Andrei, who had previously played in various punk bands, decided to start a band, the concept of which was to put all their emotions, views and ideals in the music, convey them to the listener, and also to go beyond the music and give all possible help to those who need it. Later the group added another member Vova. And Axidance started its path. In 2008 they released their first material, which was recorded at the rehearsal on a tape recorder. The record was copied on a small number of cd's and cassettes, the money from the sales was collected for the assistance funds for victims of the war in South Ossetia. A couple of gigs was played and the band broke up. 
  In 2009 they get together again, a new singer Anastasia joins the band, and the band begins preparing the material for splits with bands E123, Ground Zero and Catastrofe. The split with russian bands e123 and Ground Zero was in support of the orphanage. The money has been spent on necessary things. The second split with the Peruvian band Catastrofe was made spontaneously. Bands were communicating and decided to release their new songs together. But all this was delayed due to various problems and lack of finances. There was a long break. Denis went to travel to cities and stayed in St. Petersburg to live in the squat. At some picnic he met with Ilya, who become an Axidance bass player in future. Later Andrei left the band too. A longtime friend Sergei was invited to replace him, the former drummer for such bands as Emancipation, Pan Zlobek, Fatum and Edens Demise, and current drummer of Unkind Revolt. And with the new line-up the path was continued. In a trip to Karelia a guitarist of Ground Zero Sergei travelled with the band and a bit later he became a second guitarist of Axidance. Next, the songs for two splits were recorded. A 3-way split with E123 and Ground Zero was released in late 2009. 
  2010 a split with Catastrofe came out on russian label They live! records and on the label from Malaysia Corerockmoon records. The band took a break for winter and spring. After this they started working on new material and in the summer the band went on russian tour. In Autumn Anastasia left the band due to personal reasons. But there comes Ksenia and brings a piano to the bands music. Many concerts were played and a new record was done. In March 2011 a split with the Ukrainian group Заводь was released. CD comes out on Иакх Records And Black Cardinal Records and tape is done by They live! records. Split was released in support of the anarchist black cross, the proceeds were donated to its fund. 
  The recent months the band works on releasing a new material, preparing a new album and a split LP with a czech band Gattaca. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Axidance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.