There are 4 bands under the name Azalea:
1. AZALEA is the second mini idol unit under Aqours, consisting of Matsuura Kanan (松浦果南 - CV:Suwa Nanaka), Kurosawa Dia (黒澤ダイヤ - CV:Komiya Arisa) and Kunikida Hanamaru (国木田花丸 - CV:Takatsuki Kanako).



2. AZALEA was a visual kei band signed to Matina. Formed in July 1997 and disbanded in 2000.

Vocal: ヒナ[Hina]  (AZALEA → サリー → SCHELLEN → ＣＨＥＬＳＥＡ → ｈｕｒｔｓ → Ｓｃｈｗｅｉｎ)

Bass&Programming: 摩稀[Maki]  (AZALEA → Mëbius → ｈｕｒｔｓ → Ｌａｍｉｎａ(guitar, 晄[Aki])

Guitar: SEANA

Drums: yuki  (AZALEA → サリー → SCHELLEN → emmurée)

3. Azalea, the Alt-country, husband and wife duo from Hamilton, Ontario, Canada is comprised of Benjamin & Mia Hackett. They have released 2 EP's and one single under the name "Azalea" and one full length album under the name "Benjamin & Mia"

For their latest release, “Inside Out”,  Azalea has streamlined their folk-tinged pop sound and crafted songs that tug on your heart’s strings with haunting melodic & harmonic lines. Reminiscent of The Civil Wars, Ryan Adams, and Aimee Mann, “Inside Out” sheds light on Azalea’s Alt-Country side. Benjamin & Mia wrote, arranged, produced and recorded the album at their beloved “Sweet Dreams Recording Studio” in their Hamilton home. “Inside Out” was funded through indiegogo - a crowdsourcing platform.

In late 2012 Azalea released “At the End of This Year...”, their “holiday single”. Unlike all their other music, this song is only available for digital download on iTunes and CD Baby.

Azalea’s 2010 release, “Coffee & Kisses EP, has been featured in many prominent music magazines and has had a great response from college radio across Ontario. The album was also nominated and placed in the top three finalists for Recording of the Year, Rock Recording of the Year, Instrumentalist of the Year, and Producer of the Year at the 2010 Durham Region Music Awards. 

Years before anyone knew Benjamin & Mia Hackett as Azalea, they performed, travelled and even recorded an album under the moniker Benjamin & Mia. 
2007’s “Carousel of Life” was their first attempt at writing and recording together. It is the root of their love for one another and their “DIY” musician life. This first album is what thrust them into the life they know, love, and hope to express in song, to each of their listeners.

Benjamin Hackett: Vocals, Acoustic & Electric Guitars, Bass Guitar, Percussion
Mia Hackett: Vocals, Piano, Keyboards, Percussion


4. Azalea, an experimental post-hardcore band from Las Vegas, Nevada. The band put out an EP called 'The Wind Dancer' in 2013. 

Jeffrey Erceg - Screamed Vocals
Andrew Garritano - Clean Vocals
Kory Hulsey - Guitar 
Chance Milic - Guitar 
Francisco Marrujo - Drums 
Angelo Munji - Bass/Backup Vocals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Azalea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.