Power Metal, Prog, Melodic Metal, Hard Rock, - descriptions touching on multiple genres of heavy music today, none seem to do justice to the music that is Azrael's Bane. Based in Houston, Texas, Azrael's Bane was formed in the summer of 2002. Its members, all seasoned veterans of the heavy rock and metal scene sought to create music that was new, powerful, and different from the norm. The band features: Trey Gadler (vocals), Jeff Clifton and Chuck McFadden (guitars), Brent Marches (bass) and Rick Ward (drums). They have since developed a large following through regional touring, becoming one of the top drawing bands in the area. Azrael’s Bane have shared the stage with international acts such as Motorhead, Hammerfall, WASP, Danzig, Beyond Fear (Ripper Owens), Doro, George Lynch (Dokken), Metal Church, Nevermore, Jag Panzer, Quiet Riot, LA Guns, Into Eternity, Lillian Axe, and F5 among others including a slot on one of the world's largest Latin American festivals, the Monterrey Metal Fest as well as the Milwaukee Metalfest and Power Prog West in Los Angeles. The band, no stranger to the road, have also played US club dates from New York to LA and all points in between. In the summer of 2005 they signed a deal with Chavis Records releasing the highly acclaimed debut CD "Wings of Innocence". The CD received high marks from the press as well as brisk sales worldwide. The band is currently recording their sophomore CD, entitled "Modern Day Babylon" at Houston's Diamond Studios, again working with acclaimed producer and engineer Gregg Gill (Stride, Outworld, Distant Thunder, Z lot Z) with a scheduled release date of spring 2008. With soaring clean vocals, shred oriented musicianship, five part vocal harmonies, and an emphasis on memorable, hook-laden songwriting, Azrael's Bane are poised to make their mark on today's metal music landscape. 

(CURTISY OF THEIR MYSPACE ACCOUNT)


www.azraelsbane.com

www.myspace.com/azraelsbane  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Azrael%27s+Bane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.