Azreal are a staunch four piece whose momentum is fast moving throughout Australia due to their signature infectious fusion of thrash, groove and hard-out heavy metal. Following the success of their 2012 debut album ‘Better Dead, the band, along with their dedicated supporters, are anticipating the release of Azreal’s second studio album ‘Premonition’ in June of this year. Prior to receiving recognition for their studio material, Azreal made a major impression on the local scene and continues to do so. Fans of Pantera, Sepultura, White Zombie and the like have been drawn to Azreal like a moth to a flame and as such, the band is known to rock solid crowds with their energetic, fast paced, intensely heavy live shows. With their current powerhouse lineup of Luke Hosking (Centre Right: Vocals), Jimmy Glinster (Far Left: Lead Guitar), Scott Campbell (Far Right: Bass Guitar) and Chris Dennis (Centre Left: Drums), Azreal are in their prime form to show Australia what they are made of.
 
Forming in 2007, the original line-up of Azreal worked hard to establish the band as a household name throughout Queensland, in a metal scene that was becoming increasingly foreign to lovers of old-school heavy metal. After the departure of original guitarist Mick Creighton, the band welcomed Jimmy, whose commanding skills as a guitarist and song writing abilities helped form the monster we see today.
 
During 2011, Azreal released their first music video for the song “Servants of Decay” which gained the attention of promoters and performance opportunities including a support for Australian heavyweights Segression and a New Zealand tour. This exciting time perpetuated the band into Lovestreet Studios to record ‘Better Dead’, an album identified by its anti-religious themes and exploration of life and death. The song Believe was filmed at the bands album launch and has since become a crowd favourite.
 
Azreal followed the release of the album with a host of live performances including playing alongside King Parrot, and Bam Magera’s FuckFace Unstoppable as well as several festival slots throughout Queensland. In 2014, the band received their third consecutive invitation to Wallapalooza, a premier South East Queensland alternative music festival in which Azreal headlined in 2013. It was at this performance that the band introduced sought-after Gold Coast drummer Chris Dennis following the departure of Robbie Crosson from the band just weeks prior to the festival.
 
This marked a new chapter for Azreal, as Chris brought the percussive eruption the band needed both on stage and behind the scenes to drive them to begin writing a new album. The band teased fans with what was to come by releasing their explosive, thrash driven single ‘Cease To Be’, alongside a horror inspired film clip which has been circulating since late 2013, and was featured on American web-series ‘InsaniTV’.
 
2014 is an exciting time for Azreal as they further tour the country in support of their latest release “Premonition”. Having already wrapped up shows in Sydney, Melbourne, Bendigo, Brisbane, Gold Coast, Lismore, Cairns, Townsville, Gladstone and Ipswich as well as a securing a spot on the Brewtality Metal Festival in Melbourne through an online competition run by Heavy Music Magazine. The band finished up the year by releasing a brand new video for the song “Surveying The Fearful” (taken from the Premonition album) as well as a headline slot on the inaugural “Metalfields” Festival at the Gold Coasts premier venue The Coolangatta Hotel. 2015 will see the band back touring across the country in further support of the Premonition release meanwhile hitting the studio to start work on their next album <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/AZREAL">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.