Azterion was created in 12-31- 2000  on  Tres Rios, Cartago, Costa Rica ; mainly because their members wanted to develop a music style which could not be included in any category, but at the same time including elements of many different music styles, which could be adapted to their music.

At the beginning, their style was influenced mainly by black metal, but they were adding also elements of death, thrash, and grindcore; lately their also begin to explore other elements, becoming the avant-garde style part of their music, but never getting apart from the brutal stuff.

The original members were  Mario Portuguez  on drums,   Luis Aguilar  on vocals,  Fabio Cordero  on the Bass and   Diego Hidalgo  on guitar.

In 10 years, the band has going through a lot of changes of members, but two of them has been on the band since the begining: Mario Portuguez on drums and Luis Aguilar on vocals. All these changes has contributed to develop their music style, which they define as "destructural metal" in their early stages. 

At this moment, the band is:

Mario Portuguez - Drums
Luis Aguilar - Vocals
 Fabián Vargas : Guitars & Vocals

 Francisco Meneses: Bass

 Robert Schmidt: Guitar

Among the ex-members of the band, we can found

Fabio Cordero - Bass
Diego Hidalgo - Guitar
Harold Cambronero  - Guitar
Luis Doval  - Guitar
Pablo Sanchez  - Bass
Julian Brown  - Guitar
Roy Zumbado  - Guitar
Matthew Wallace  - Bass
Diego Matarrita  - Guitar

After their debut album "Destructural" the band has been having some problems, but now their member are working on new material, which is supposed to come in their new album, which will be called "Experimental"

Their current members has participate in other bands from Costa Rica such as Insano, Mantra, Pseudostratiffied Epithelium, Cangrena, Mummified, Requiem Arcana, Viceversa Subersiva.

Their main influences are Slayer, Napalm Death, Meshuggah, Nile, Cephalic Carnage, Morbid Angel, Suffocation, Carcass, Nevermore, Between the Buried and Me, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Destruction, Sodom, Kreator, Exodus, Iron Maiden, Immolation, Craddle of Filth, Dimmu Borgir, Old Mans Child, Emperor, Mayhem, Mr. Bungle, Alice in Chains, Soundgarden, Nirvana,  Def Leppard, Skid Row...

For more information, you may go to

 www.myspace.com/azterionband 
www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=14132 
 www.facebook.com/pages/Azterion/341628670687 
 www.last.fm/music/Azterion 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Azterion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.