Azylya is a melodic metal band from Belgium.  

AZYLYA was founded in 2009 and is based in the Belgian Capital of Brussels, playing a mix of melodic metal and a bit of thrash.
The sound of AZYLYA came to be by creating a harmony between the angelic voice of Songstress Jamie-Lee (ex Skeptical Minds & AEDDEN) and the thrash scores of Vlad, bringing the dark, painful and suffering in contrast with a sound of hope. 

After Jamie-Lee quit AEDDEN, her new project, dubbed AZYLYA, got off on the fast lane: Gaetan, the drummer, joined almost immediatly afterwards, with Vlad on keyboard following only a few months later. What follows are a lot of auditions,  as the band started looking for 2 guitarists, a bass guitarist and a good place to rehearse...Before taking on the next milestone, which is to make a first EP.
 
Guitarist Anthony was recruited after several scrutinizing auditions, right after the spot of bass guitarist  was filled in, as this proved much more challenging, but in the end, the persistence and the skill of Ben paid off, earning him the title of AZYLYA bass guitarist in the end.
Anthony's nigh-unrivaled 7-string play proved to be a winning number almost from the start, earning him the spot of (lead) guitarist to boot!


However, both Vlad and Gaetan were forced to leave the group despite a very productive run on the EP and a well-received first gig in December 2010, due to professional reasons. 
AZYLYA immediately launched a quest for their respective successors, and won a bonus with it too: for the drums, Forster got selected, whereas the keys will be played by Guillaume, and, to cover the male vocals, second guitarist Maxime took the gauntlet, adding to it that, as said before, a second guitarist is won...

With the line-up now complete again, AZYLYA is now working hard on their sound to bring forth the first EP and write the story of Azylya in music, but one thing is already certain enough...
Long may be the dark night when AZYLYA is on stage! 

Official Site <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Azylya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.