There are several performers that use the name B-LOW:

1.) Dutch Industrial Metal Band

B-LOW was founded by Jos "Midget" Wübbels and Patrick "B2" Mangnus on November 30th 1995 with the idea to create extremely heavy (doom) metal. In 1997 Bastiaan "Bastard" van Zwieten (Last FM user Plexyglazz)joins as second bass-player and the band continues in this form for nearly 7 years.

In 2001 the first mini-album/demo, Demotivation Remake 2B, is recorded on four tracks and unleashed upon the unsuspecting masses. Demotivation Remake 2B shows a band experimenting with Doom, Industrial and Noise.

The follow-up album, Ground Zero Souvenirs is recorded in 2003 and released in November of that same year. This album features more samples and electronics and also shows a more aggressive and political view on the world.

In the spring of 2004 Marinus "Lichtbringer" Moerland reinforces the band as lead-vocalist.

B-LOW plays with two bass-guitars to achieve the ultimate low and heavy sound. In time the old doom idea is replaced by a more industrial sound. By adding (really distorted) samples, synthesiser sounds, filters, extra drumbeats and double or even triple vocals the music becomes more layered, aggressive, groovy, melodic and weird. The musical input from the different members is very different from each other, just like their musical influences. 

Musical roots range from punk to the entire metal-scene and from techno and house to dark and cold stripped down industrial. B-LOW describe their music as: SLOW DOOM + FAST NOISE.

B-LOW members in other bands:
Jos "Midget" Wübbels and Patrick "B2" Mangnus are also in the (currently defunct) old-skool metalband It Lives
Jos "Midget" Wübbels was drummer in early 1990's Dutch metalband Hot Watt Theatre Of Tragedy
Bastiaan "Bastard" van Zwieten is also a member of experimental "psychotrippingblues" band Green Smogg (limited live recordings)
Bastiaan "Bastard" van Zwieten, Patrick "B2" Mangnus and Johan Kuipers formed the multimediaperformanceartgroup B@IP@SS (no recordings made)
Marinus "Lichtbringer" Moerland used to be lead-singer for the short-lived dutch metalband Librium

 2.) Italian Atmospheric Nu-Metal band : http://www.b-low.org

3. ) Swedish Deathmetal band

4. ) Underground rapper from Memphis <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/B-Low">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.