Bernhard Fleischmann was born in Vienna in 1975. His first bands were Speed Is Essential and Sore!. Together with the latter his first record: „My Idea of Fun“.

In the nineties, Vienna became famous for its electronic music scene and Bernhard Fleischmann found its unique place in it. A laptop, sound loops, rhythm patterns. A gig at the legendary picknick@rhiz festival. Indulging melodies, but never sugary, surrounded by tricky rhythm structures. Songs, not just tracks, arranged on an impressing record – “pop loops for breakfast” found the love story between Bernhard Fleischmann and the young label Morr Music in autumn 1998. The “Sidonie EP” followed in 1999. Bernhard Fleischmann became a busy live artist, touring through Austria, Germany, Europe, the USA and nearly the rest of the world. The album “Choir of Empty Beds” was released on Fuzzy Box (2000). Besides, tracks for compilations on Morr Music (“Putting the Morr back into Morrissey“) and other labels – Christof Kurzmann’s Vienna based label Charizma, for instance. Bernhard Fleischmann’s “Nico”-7inch was the opener for the Morr Music-series “a number of small things” (2001).

Later came “Welcome Tourist” (autumn 2001) featuring Christof Kurzmann.

Together with Herbert Weixelbaum Bernhard Fleischmann formed Duo 505, delicate pulsing electronica. Their album “late” was released in autumn 2005 on Morr Music.

Together with Christof Kurzmann, Burkhard Stangl, Martin Siewert and Werner Dafeldecker – those who already have played one song together on “Welcome Tourist” – he founded The Year of, a country-esque chamber orchestra with slide guitars, clarinets, interferences, echo chambers. Songs in cinemascope, electro-acoustic experiences. Their debut “Slow Days” was released in spring 2006 also on Morr Music.

And there is „The Humbucking Coil“ Bernhard Fleischmann’s third solo record released in February 2006 – euphoric pop in slow motion, rustling rhythm patterns, songs that linger and indulge. Vibraphone, piano, electric guitars in a still electronic working process. Pop songs of course.

Bernhard Fleischmann is also the composer for different film scores: Bady Mincks “Am Anfang war der Blick“ (shown in Cannes 2003); Jörg Kalts “Crash Test Dummies” (shown at the berlinale 2005); and Marc Bauders and Dörte Frankes “Jeder schweigt von etwas anderem” (shown at the Berlinale 2006).

www.bfleischmann.com
www.morrmusic.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/B.+Fleischmann">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.