B.R.A.S.H.'s Band Biography

     B.R.A.S.H. is a blackened death metal band who infuses their sound with progressive thrash metal.  The band hails from Turlock, California in the U.S.  The band spawned in 2006 as a studio band.  Since funds were limited and only 2 members were involved, a Demo was created to induce a buzz on Myspace.  This was Brian's first attempt at recording and he is quite pleased with the results.    
    
     As of now, B.R.A.S.H. is marketing their 4 song "Demo" album.  It had been available for free download for a while, but the band decided to turn their attention to a more professional avenue for the release.  Before, it was a hobby; now, it is a business.  Proceeds from this marketing effort will be utilized to produce one to two more tracks.  Plans to remaster the current set list (with a certain drummer in mind) will certainly be a possibility as well.  The plan will be to combine the Demo (with new drum tracks) with the additional songs to create a six song EP for a future release.  Digital distribution is a sure thing for the current "Demo".  Physical distribution will possibly wait until the EP release (date not known as of now).  Since B.R.A.S.H. is a "studio duo" for now, tours are impossible.  In the future, there will be plans to find other band members to further promote the band with gigs and tours.

      The founding member of the band is Brian Sousa (AKA Soldier).  Brian was born in Turlock, California in 1980.  While attending Tokay High School (of Lodi, California) Sousa had been impressing his classmates with his rhythm guitar techniques.  He was a natural entertainer.  For years, he pent up track after track in his mind.  So, naturally, he decided to find an avenue to unleash his creativity.  Kevin Kinnu was born in Turlock, California as well (in 1958).  Kinnu was friends with Edward Sousa (Brian’s Pops) back in high school (Turlock High School).  He has always been a family friend.  Kinnu is a virtuoso guitarist who lends his hands to the solo work.  In Turlock, California, Kinnu has been a music teacher for the better part of the last three decades.  Soldier is currently located in the Tulsa, Oklahoma area while Kinnu still resides in California.

    B.R.A.S.H. is dedicated, for now, to market on the internet at a dizzying speed.  Fan based sites, twenty profile sites with tweets, Facebook, Myspace and at least 12 other social network profiles to boot keep this duo busy.  Soldier is handling all the media for now, since Kevin is marketing his new and innovative guitar pick, "the Keshla pick", at this time.  Both members are stretching themselves thin, for now, but they anticipate that the efforts will pay off in the end.  An example of lyrics you would find on one of B.R.A.S.H's sites would be as follows: "Totally - never like before and epiphany - killers been extinguished.  Inside - him you won't find in me.  Take a stab.  Dissect the problem.  Analyze and spirits you'll find.  My source - this is my open sore."  That is an excerpt  taken from "Man of Stone".

     You will be able to see a lot more of the band since their press release and Electronic Press Kits have been started.  Look out for future reviews and radio airplay.  B.R.A.S.H. is a new Extreme metal force; are willing to hold a standard which means  furious guitar solos, technical rhythms, dark and abysmal vocals along with a message in each song to evoke thought, sincerity and charismatic stimulation to the listener.  When presented with the track "AntiChrist", David Horn (Editor of S.O.D. Magazine) messaged Brian back in 2007: "This track shreds!  Keep up the good music" - Myspace message-
   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/B.R.A.S.H.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.