B.T.R. is a Bulgarian rock band. Founded in 1984 by group members Atanas Penev - Nasko (Vocals), Slavcho Nickolov (Guitars), Ivan Kalfov (bass), and Georgy Milev as drummer, later replaced by Ilian Dikov.


History

The band's first album was "Feel the Life", released in 1993. The album had a lot of local success and the band even started some tours outside of the country. Bending The Rules was released the same year with lots of great tracks, such as Under the Law and First Blood. The band became such a success in Bulgaria, that it opened for groups such as Iron Maiden in 1995 and appeared with bands such as Deep Purple, Black Sabbath and Duo Mania in China.

In 1997 the band released the album "'97" which featured rock anthems such as The Golden Fish (Zlatnata Ribka), I don't know, Dune, Hey Girl, and one of their best songs Diamond and Glass. This album sent them straight to the top of the Bulgarian Rock Stage. A year later followed their most respected album - "7 Ballads". With the explosive hit Salvation, they left their mark in Bulgarian Rock History. Their next album, Dreams, was number one on the charts for a long time with songs such as A Flower from The Moon and Night Trains.


Influence

Besides being one of the most respected Bulgarian musicians, B.T.R. have been involved in countless free concerts in support of the Anti-Drug campaign in Bulgaria. They've probably made the most important contributions from all musicians, and their song Salvation, which deals with the consequences of addiction, has been chosen as the campaign's anthem.

Although most of their songs are in Bulgarian and they are not very popular outside of their home country, their talents have been recognized by thousands of people from around the World in places like England, France, Japan.


Current line-up:

Athanas Penev - Vocals
Cyrill Bozhkov - Guitars
Slavcho Nicoloff - Guitars, Backing Vocals
Ivan Kalfov - Bass
Ilyan "Little" Dikov - Drums

Past members:

George Milev - Drums
Valentin Guevsky - Guitars
Itzo Angeloff - Vocals


Discography

1992 - Live
1993 - Feel The Life
1993 - Bending the Rules
1997 - B.T.R.
1998 - Seven Ballads
1999 - Dreams
2002 - The Game <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/B.T.R.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.