North Coast cosmic conduits Babe Rainbow are at their laconic, luminous peak, curiously exploring their place in sonic space while permaculturally rooted here on Planet Earth, to drifting, dazzling effect.

Sprouting from the high vibrational vortex that is Australia's Eastern-most tip - Byron Bay - the music of Babe Rainbow acts as an extension of the consciously living community that has made the area so magnetic for decades.

Gently psychedelic and lightly jammy, simmering on mechanised samba rhythms and stratospheric flute with a Gainsbourg swagger. Babe Rainbow’s sound is vividly respectful of the past whilst emphatically living in the present, a collection of sounds and sentiments from a place between yesterday and tomorrow.

Angus, Jack, Elliot and Louise alongside their patient producer Sam Joseph (King Gizzard), Reap the fertile rewards of music borne of fruit trees and honey mead, surfing and self-sufficiency, Babe Rainbow’s music bristles with the life of the region from whence it came.

There is another artist with the same name:

2. Babe Rainbow is the moniker of Vancouver-born musician/producer Cameron Reed. Reed has been considered of the vanguard of new Canadian electronic musicians having released two albums since 2010 on the acclaimed Warp Records (Aphex Twin, Boards of Canada, Grizzly Bear). His work has received critical acclaim from outlets such as The New Yorker, Exclaim, CBC, Pitchfork, and The Fader. Reed has performed at the Museum of Modern Art in New York and toured across Canada, the United States and Europe supporting artists like Animal Collective, Battles, and Oneohtrix Point Never. Falling Apart, due out on July 7, 2014, is Reed’s third album following a short hiatus performing in the touring band for the R&B project How To Dress Well. 

Babe Rainbow now lives and works in Toronto, ON. In addition to releasing Falling Apart, Reed has been tapped to score a new documentary by Austin Lynch. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Babe+Rainbow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.