Baby J is a producer from the UK currently splitting his time between the UK and NYC. An experienced producer he has worked internationally for the last eight years. He was first found back in 95 when an A&R at Wu-tang heard a demo he had produced and brought him in to work with up and coming acts.

His first release was a 12" with Shabazz the Disciple (Wu-tang, Penalty Records) and he later produced mixtape tracks for Brand Nubian, Dead Prez and Imam Thug.

In 98 he released 'The Birth' (Bomb Hip Hop) a solo album featuring US and UK emcees including Shabazz the Disciple, Freestyle (the Arsonists) and Poetic (The Gravediggaz). The album sold throughout the US and Europe and was supported with a European tour and two videos on MTV.

Baby J has gone on to do production work, including UK artists like MSI asylum (Gran Kru records) and Yogi (Ant records) with an LP and video 'Jamaica Child' placed on regular rotation on MTV and MTV Base. Production work on UK artists Moorish Delta 7 LP and classic 12" 'Silent Screams' and mixing and studio work including theme tunes for terrestrial TV.

He has worked with Dead Prez (Loud Records) on their debut LP and RnB acts including Mpho Skeef, Dwaine and Laurissa, a new UK artist whose Baby J produced track 'Shorty' won 3rd place in Trevor Nelsons (BBC Radio 1) search for an urban talent.

Baby J produced tracks for Skinnyman's 'Council Estate of Mind' album (Lowlife Records) including the singles 'I'll Be Surprised' (BBC Radio 1 record of the week) and 'No Big Ting', which was radio One C-listed, received regular daytime airplay as well as being playlisted for 1xtra and BBC Radio 6.

He produced UK Hip-Hop Yogi's 'Bear Necessities' LP which includes the Echoes single of the month 'Why Must U?'.  The track received regular plays on BBC Radio 1 and was both Zane Lowe's and Colin & Edith's Single of the week. Zane also billed it as "The hottest track in the world right now". The track received regular rotation on 1xtra, MTV Base, KISS TV & Channel U.

In October 2005 Baby J released his album FTP (All City Records). The album featured the massive single 'Let It Go' (playlisted at Choice Fm, Galaxy, Kiss, 1xtra, Asian Network, MTV, Channel U etc) and a collection of the UK and USA's best hip hop artists including Skinnyman, TY, Blade, Rukus, Shystie, Mpho Skeef, Dead Prez and many more.

The second album FTP2 was released on OCT' 16th 2006,  the first single 'Black Or White' currently receiving BBC Radio 1 spins from Zane Lowe, Ras Kwame, and the 2nd single being 'Young, Gifted & Black' featuring Blak Twang, Estelle & Dynamite MC was  playlisted on 1XTRA, Choice Fm, MTV etc.

Fresh off the back of the massive Mark Ronson / Amy Winehouse 'Valerie' remix, Baby J has just signed a new recording deal to Abstract Urban.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Baby+J">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.