There are 2 artists with this name.

1. Hailing from the Netherlands, Babygrinder started back in 2001 as a cyber/goregrind project under the name of Death by Disease. After a demo ("Chainsaw Relations") was finished the name was changed to Babygrinder, which by now consisted of 2 members: Chiram on guitars, and Astathica on drums, bass and vocals. Later in 2001 the "Mass Mutilation" demo was released.
In 2002 the first full-length, "Fetus Dinner" was released. At this time, Astathica played all the instruments himself. The album didn't contain any regular guitars, was written on an acoustic guitar missing the low E-string, and had drums, electronically altered bass and vocals. It has been re-released with the intended bass recordings on Bandcamp in 2018. After a 2-year break, the "Principle of Easily Skinned Flesh" EP was released. This contained a full sound, which was more grindcore-influenced.

After a good 4 years of doing nothing, or not much, Babygrinder came back with a release. Songs that have been traded around online, like "Wervelstorm", "Beheaded Bitch" and re-recorded versions of "Born, Cooked and Eaten" and more were combined and released as the "2008 Promo".
The band pretty much went inactive after this, mainly recording some demos and writing riffs but not making concrete plans for releases. In 2018, after the revamped version of the previous full-length was finished, the new material was collected and the process of working it into a new release started. In 2020 the last touches are being put on the "Bits and Pieces" EP, which contains 3 new tracks, a re-recording, two old tracks from "Fetus Dinner" with new vocals and actual guitars, and as a bonus some rehearsals.

Writing and recording for a new full-length has started.
Be sure to check https://grindingbabies.bandcamp.com for more info.

2. A jokingly awesome band from Australia. See http://www.myspace.com/babygrinderband for more info. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Babygrinder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.