Bachelorette is the musical project of New Zealand muscian Annabel Alpers. Beginning in 2004 in Christchurch, NZ, Bachelorette mixes '60s psychedelia and girl-group pop with folk and vintage electronics.Prior to Bachelorette, Alpers played in Christchurch-based surf-band Hawaii Five-O and Hiss Explosion.

After touring the United States in 2008, Drag City put out Bachelorette's first international release, My Electric Family. Bachelorette's songs "Long Time Gone" and "Her Rotating Head" were used in Grey's Anatomy episodes 6.04 and 6.08, respectively. Bachelorette subsequently toured with The Magnetic Fields, Bonnie 'Prince' Billy, Bill Callahan, Animal Collective, Low, Beach House, and Peter Bjorn & John, in addition to her own headline tours in the US and Europe.

Bachelorette's self-titled album Bachelorette was released internationally the week of May 16, 2011. 

Bachelorette releases include The End of Things (2005), Isolation Loops (2007), My Electric Family (2009) and the self-titled Bachelorette (2011). Drag City re-released the The End of Things and Isolation Loops on vinyl LP in October, 2010. 

The End of Things (Particle Tracks), released in 2005 and Bachelorette’s debut seven-track EP, was her first foray into solo recording after completing her degree in music composition from Auckland University. Alpers wrote the parts for guitars, keys, vocals and harmonies, programmed the drum machine, ultimately creating a “perfectly-crafted synth-pop release.” New Zealand Musician remarked “Overall this is a simply amazing debut.”

2007 saw the follow-up to TEOT with Isolation Loops, the product of Alpers’ sequestered writing and recording process, tucked away in her grandfather’s rustic cabin in the shadows of New Zealand’s Canterbury Alps.

Mojo called 2009’s My Electric Family “a real treasure”; Pitchfork comments “when Alpers folds herself into the electronic process, the results are delicious, even ecstatic,” and LA Weekly states that Bachelorette’s music is “as bright and transcendent as it is detailed and personal.”

During the week of May 16th, 2011, Bachelorette' third full-length album, self-titled 'Bachelorette'. was internationally released.

Discography:

Albums:
•       The End of Things. (long EP, Arch Hill, 2005; Re-released: CD, Particle Tracks, 2009; Re-released LP, Drag City, 2010, ).
•       Isolation Loops.  Electroplate/Mistletone, 2006/2007) (Re-released: CD, Particle Tracks, 2009; Re-released LP Drag City, 2010).
•       My Electric Family. (Drag City/Mistletone/Particle Tracks, 2009).
• Bachelorette (self-titled), (Drag City/Souterrain Transmissions/Mistletone/Particle Tracks, 2011)

Singles:
•       “Do the Circuit” / “I Want to Be Your Girlfriend” (7”), (Drag City, 2009).

www.myspace.com/bachelorettepop www.particletracks.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bachelorette">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.