There are more than one band with the name Backlash.

1)  Backlash from New Jersey were formed in 1991, the band recorded and released a demo, two 7"s and a 12" and played over 300 shows. They played hardcore inspired by legendary NYHC bands like Judge, Leeway, Cro-Mags and Sick Of It All.

2) Formed in Lidkoping, Sweden in 1998 by three talented young men, Backlash now (2k6-08) two albums and a few Eps later stands at the frontier of Swedish electronic music. The combination of Niklas' sensitive compositions, Oskar's battering sound engineering and Erik's brute force of singing creates a new hard electronic sound that few others has manage to create. Music in the borderlands of minimalistic techno and electro-pop.

3) Formed in Scotland, a punk band of the early 90s, Backlash were popular for their chaotic live shows and musical intensity. Backlash were Dek Hill(guitar) (RIP), Coln Burns (bass), Jock Hart (drums to 1990), Kevin Bowyer (drums). Their released included Sick Sick Sick, Square Eyes and Not Interested and they were also known for their high-tempo renditions of popular classics like Shout, Runaway, White Wedding and The Boxer.


4) The Dutch metal band Backlash was formed in Vlissingen in 1999. They have released two demos (2001 & 2003) , a live video CD (2002) and one full-length (The Binary Code, 2004). They describe their music - which is a mix of death metal, thrash and heavy metal - as 'brutal metal'. The band broke up in 2005, but in the end of 2007 they decided to reform. More info on http://www.backlash.nl/; discography is available on RateYourMusic.com.

5) Metal Band from Florida

6) Heavy metal band from Hobart, Tasmania, Australia. Influenced by Metallica, Iron Maiden and other classic heavy metal bands, the Tasmanian outfit have quickly rose to be one of the stronger classic metal bands in their southern state.

7) Finnish hardcore punk band taking influences from japanese bands like the ones on HG Fact and Selfish Records etc. Released one 12" MLP called Realities of Life

8) Band from Singapore. https://backlashsg.bandcamp.com/

9) German Punk Band from Dortmund https://backlash3.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Backlash">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.