Backstreet Boys  (often abbreviated as BSB) is a group that rose to popularity in the late 1990s. Since then they have broken music and concert sale records, having sold more than 180 million albums (38 million in the United States) to make them the highest-selling boy band on record. Consisting of AJ McLean, Howie D, Nick Carter, Brian Littrell and  Kevin Richardson, they released their first self-titled album Backstreet Boys in 1996, selling over 38 million copies worldwide and setting a record for the most successful debut album in history.

In May 1999, they released Millennium which sold over 1.13 million units in its first week, setting a record for most albums sold in first week sales. They also held the most sales for an album's second and third weeks. The record dominated the worldwide charts, landing at the #1 spot in 25 countries. The album was certified 11 times platinum by December 1999, making it the fastest selling album in a year. The album went on to sell over 43 million copies worldwide. Released in November 2000, Black & Blue achieved platinum status in over 30 countries and gold certification in 10 regions around the world during its first week of release with sales of over 25 million copies worldwide.  

In October 2001, the boys released The Hits - Chapter One, a disc of their greatest hits with Drowning as their last single until their return in 2005. After a five-year hiatus, their new single from their 5th album Never Gone, Incomplete, was released on March 28, 2005 and quickly became the #1 most requested song in top markets in both U.S. and overseas. The song was a drastic change from their previous albums. The album has sold over 13 million copies worldwide.

On June 24, 2006, Kevin left the group on good terms to pursue personal projects. The members said that they won't close the door to Kevin and whenever he wants to go back, he's welcome. The first release as a foursome was on October 30th, 2007, with their sixth album, Unbreakable. Two years later, they followed it up with This Is Us.

On January 26, 2010, they released a second greatest hits album, Playlist: The Very Best of the Backstreet Boys and is part of a series of similar Playlist albums issued by Sony Legacy. By 2010, they had fulfilled their contract with Jive and mutually agreed to leave the label. Later that year, they joined forces with New Kids on the Block and kicked off a worldwide tour as NKOTBSB. After the end of the tour, Kevin announced that he was rejoining. In 2013, the guys released their first independent album, In a World Like This, which coincided with the 20th anniversary of their formation and got them honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

In 2017, they held a residency titled Backstreet Boys: Larger than Life at Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas. The shows turned out to be a huge success and continued to renew public interest in the group, which led to them signing a new deal with RCA Records. DNA was released in 2019 and it became their first album to debut at #1 on the Billboard 200 in 19 years, with their lead-off single "Don't Go Breaking My Heart" being their biggest hit single in over 10 years. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Backstreet+Boys">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.