Formed in the spring of 1983 and after having survived several line up changes, Salt Lake City's Bad Yodelers released their debut album I Wonder, a local favorite. The Yodelers have always drawn large crowds at their live shows. Both their previous released cassette-only releases sold out almost instantly. Things slowed down in 1986 when singer Karl Alvarez left the band to join the Descendents as their bassist. This left the Bad Yodelers trying different singers without much luck. Finally they found Terrance DH, a singer they always admired from another local band The Stench. With their new vocalist, the Yodelers immediately jumped into the studio and recorded their incredibly powerful debut. They look like a bunch of surfers and play like streetwise punks !!!! More melodic than the first LP; better voice & better songs, too. Great music in the vein of All or mid-period Dag Nasty with a bit of Metallica thrown in for good measure.

My sister Shelley just got back from a big birthday party where she talked to this guy from Salt Lake City about this other guy I once knew--the first guy I ever kissed. I was 19 and a sophomore at BYU. His name was Kevin. He went to the community college. Kind of. He was older than me and he was in a punk band called the Bad Yodelers. We had been going to the Tuesday night dollar movies for several weeks, not really talking to each other much. I was really freaked out to be with him, very nervous. (Omigosh! Why me?) He showed up once at the door with his hair dyed in an argyle-sock pattern. One night we went to a friend of his house in the Provo hills and watched Eraserhead. Just as I was about to leave the pad for my Chevy Nova (a great car, circa 1974), he grabbed me and did it and I freaked out. I remember driving home shakily, really stunned, and then waking up my roommate, telling her and then we both jumped on our beds for awhile, screeching, of course. Kevin would later make out with this roommate behind my back for several months--but that's another story. Anyway I found out that Kevin is living in Springville, has put on, according to this source, quite a bit of weight and has a much younger wife (and I think several children). I wonder what else he's doing. He was really into thrift-store shopping and once sewed a bunch of old wigs to a sweater for a gig. A lot of good things happened once in Utah.

In 1993 they released a third album, under the moniker Season Of The Spring, following a more post-hardcore direction. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bad+Yodelers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.