1.Bad Habits is a female-fronted Rock & Roll band from Athens, Greece. Formed in late 2018, Bad Habits is a collective of Jo (vocals), Ellie (vocals/bass), Severin (lead guitar), Spiros (guitar), and Apostol (drums). The band’s eclectic style pulls diverse elements of classic and punk rock for a unique, modern sound with a kick of 70s nostalgia.

2. Bad Habits is a hardcore band formed in Pensacola, Florida, USA in 2012.

3. Bad Habits is a rock/punk/metal band from London, England, with various changes in the lineup since original formation in 1984 by former Leicester band members (with albums Gypsy (United Artists Records 1971; World Wide Records/SPM International, CD reissue 1994) and Brenda and the Rattlesnake (United Artists Records 1972; CD reissue, World Wide Records/SPM International 1994)) who when reformed decided to go in a heavier musical direction from their original formation and therefore used both names interchangeably with the first heavier sounding single for Bad Habits, "Lipstick Queen", released in 1986 on Sniffin’ Rock Magazine (#13 EP in vinyl SR 0010A7) and the release of of the Gypsy band album Gypsy - Future Teller (SPM International 1995), containing the album track "Bad Habits"  (Some of the tracks off Gypsy's albums were re-recorded and re-released on Bad Habits albums with current lineup).
Eventually they decided to solely use the name Bad Habits and are also known as Bad Habits San Jose as they have a base in California, USA. Bad Habits have three albums out with their current lineup, consisting of 3 band members Red Butane - guitarist and backing vocalist, Glo Butane - lead vocalist, bass guitarist and keyboardist and Santos El Diablo - drummer ; on ITUNES International: Radioactive (Night Breed Limited 2006 originally on Plastic Head Distribution), Schitzophrenic (Night Breed Limited/BFM Digital 2007/2008) and Blind Faith (Night Breed Limited/BFM Digital 2008) and their single "Anthem for the Strange" (Night Breed Limited/BFM Digital 2008) dealing with social consciousness to raise awareness for anti-teenage gang-related gun and knife crime related to the murders of Sophie Lancaster and Ben Kinsella. Bad Habits are very involved in charitable organizations and events and have performed live shows with video links for Breast Cancer Research Foundation, Cancer Research Foundation, Red Cross and Youth Music Camps encouraging youths from age 8-18 to get involved in the music business; as they have songs pertaining to anti-war ("Is Anybody Out There (Makin' Love Anymore)"), child abuse ("Razorblade Romance"), and other political topics.
They have released videos on MTV Europe and MTV Asia “Is Anybody Out There (Makin’ Love Anymore)” (Night Breed Limited/DRP Group 2006) and “Sweet Daddy’s Girl” (Night Breed Limited/Funked Up TV 2006) and a series of “Meet the Butanes” and “The Adventures of The Karate Nun” and Bad Habits song "Home" was featured on the BBC Television Show See Hear 2007
Bad Habits won the Xfm London XFM Uploaded Radio Chart Competition for their track "Razorblade Romance" for the London area hosted by Xfm DJ Steve Harris in August 2007 and have been quoted by him as being "the loudest riffting band ever played on XFM"; which led to them performing at the Metro (Associated Metro Limited) Ski Show with Zane Lowe in Olympia, London London Olympia and will appear at Monarchy-Live Festival at Bagley Hall, Warwickshire 2009 for the charity CLIC Sargent on the Kerrang Radio 105.2 Emerging Arena Stage and has been championed by underground rock/metal radio station Total Rock Radio Dj's Tina Saul, Catbird and Zed (interviewed and featured on one hour radio show) as well as other radio stations around the world including DJ Antonio Augusto Cesar Junior on Tabajara FM 106.1 in Brazil.
see www.myspace.com/badhabitsme
and www.badhabits.me.uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bad+Habits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.