There is more than one artist with this name.

1. Badge was a Newcastle NWOBHM band formed in 1980. The only known release from the band was the well regarded Silver Woman single released in 1981
Tony Dixon - Guitar
Stuart McLean - Guitar
Mike Cooper - Bass
Rob Zipfel - Drums
Graham Waudby - Vocals
For more info on the band (including album reviews) visit: www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=19652

2. An American Indie band formed in 2009

3. Badge is an exciting up and coming band out of Stockholm, Sweden. Formed by guitarist Matti and drummer Fredrik Haake they have toured all across Europe with their frenetic modern delta blues. With a high energy metal approach they play acoustic guitar, upright bass and drums with so much attitude that most bands should be ashamed. 

Formed in 2002 Badge released their first album in 2003. Their new, fresh, powerful and unique music got great review's in alternative and mainstream press and gave the band an opportunity to gain a strong fanbase by playing festivals and clubs throughout Scandinavia and Europe.

In March 2005 Badge finished up a live DVD that captured the essence of their strong "in your face" live appearance and first showed the new line up.

Spring 2006 saw the release of their second album "Kill Another Fuzz". Produced by Tomas Hedblom (Peter Bjorn And John, The Hives, Meshuggah, The Hellacopters) the confidence as well as the energy is stronger than ever.

4. Badge is the collaborative name of old friends RJ Robertson (Pablo Honey, Springfloor Tuesdays) and Tim Rutherford (The Butchers, Blackjack, and solo).  Recording primarily at the Cole Been Studio in Bethel, Ohio, they have written and recorded nearly 9 songs which cover many rock genres.  They expect their first full release sometime in early Winter 2009 with a tour to follow in 2010.

The collaboration is unique as Rutherford records much of the music in Milwaukee, WI and uploads the tracks to the Cole Been studio for additional instrumentations and vocals by Robertson.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Badge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.