Band Members:
Josh Yarnall - Guitars
Tyler VanOstrand - Drums
Ben Becraft - Guitars
Luke Francis - Bass

Bio:
Founded in March 2010, Balor’s Eye is a progressive metal band from Baltimore, Maryland. Fusing elements of several different metal genres into a very unique sound, Balor’s Eye is quickly making a name for itself in the scene. 
With no musical, political, or societal agenda, Balor’s Eye is merely striving to write great music for people to enjoy. Many bands plan out their style, or what kind of songs they want to write, or a certain aspect of uniqueness they want to embody, but Balor’s Eye is simply four dudes pushing themselves as far as possible musically. With the utmost respect for music and dedication to their craft, they create a sound that is very progressive, powerful, technical, groovy, and authentic.
At its foundation, the music that comes out of Balor’s Eye is progressive metal. Verses and choruses are difficult to define, but there are clear themes and a general continuity within each song. As the band continues to progress, each song is becoming more and more technical. This appears to be a worsening problem as the details are getting more and more numerous, and the rhythms more and more in-depth. But although the music is often technical and complex, a thick, constant groove is always at the forefront. 
Balor’s Eye has accomplished much in their short time as a band. Break Open Management has picked them up. They were finalists in Project Independent’s 2010 National Metal Showcase, they have been booked for shows with The Faceless, Suffocation, Protest the Hero, Periphery, TeserracT, Through the Eyes of the Dead, The Human Abstract, Decrepit Birth, Fleshgod Apocalypse, and Maylene and the Sons of Disaster, and they have just released their debut EP, recorded with Kevin Gutierrez at Assembly Line Studios.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Balor%27s+Eye">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.