Started in Kelowna, BC, Canada, Eirik spent the summer of 2005 recording and arranging different riffs and melodies he had in his head. From the beginning all aspects of the music were influenced from his love for raw, productionless black metal, ambient and ambient music, Scandinavia, vikings and norse mythology. The first demo was recorded in August 2005 and quickly saw the day of light at the beginning of September. Released under the band name "Demisolace", 2005 Demo was raw, sharp, not without flaws and completely instrumental. As soon as it was recorded Eirik put the project aside to concentrate on his writing. During from Fall 2005 to spring 2006 Eirik had completed his first novel and moved from Canada to a more "familiar" land (even though he had never been there before) -- Finland.

Once in Finland he began sending quere letters in search of a possible publishing contract. While waiting he was flooded with more ideas of musical recording nature. The 2005 Demo was persumed lost and pre-production had begun for a completely new album. One day a discovery was made, hidden away the hard drive of Eirik's laptop were all the tracks for 2005 Demo. Quickly re-recordings were being completed to the old demo to better suit the new album. A new song was recorded (Old Raven Court) and old riffs and recordings were transformed into the two ambient tracks Lord Andrus Kalgan and Primeval Oath Broken. Thus the album (and band name) Bane and Illusion were born in July 2006. After the vocals have been properly recorded the release will be ready for the world to take by storm (though instrumental versions of all tracks are already surfacing on some internet radio sites)!

After finishing recording the full-length demo "Honor the Fallen Steel" Eirik decided to disband Bane and Illusion and concentrate fully on his new band Bladesmith. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bane+and+Illusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.