There are three artists with this name (not counting The Bangs)
1. a rap artist from Melbourne, Australia
2. a punk rock band from Olympia, Washington
3. an 80s garage rock band from LA, California

1)  Bangs is a 19 year old rap artist born in North Khartoum, Sudan. At the age of 11, he moved to Egypt with his family after his Father married another wife. He spent two years there before coming to Australia in 2003. He has been writing rap, hip hop and pop since settling in Melbourne in 2004.

“Music is my wife”, Bangs sang in a live jam recently. He writes about life, love and hope and his music grows with him till the end of life. He recorded his first demo “Girlfriend” in 2005 with DJ Wasabi in Collingwood, then started to lay down tracks in his home studio.

In July 2008, he recorded his first professional album at Gateway Living Music Studios, titled “Hard to be Up”. Produced by John Favaro and Paul Last name, it features the new hit single “Take U to Da Movies”. The name “Hard To Be Up” means that he worked so hard to put the songs together to make the album.

He is constantly stretching his creative abilities, and is already working on his next album, with the working title “Am Still Moving On”. 

2) Bangs was a punk rock band from Olympia, Washington, formed in 1997 by guitarist Sarah Utter after recruiting high school friend Jesse Fox on drums and Maggie Vail, who had to learn how to play bass guitar to be in the band, being that the only instruments she played before were drums, guitar, cello, and clarinet. Bangs toured with and/or played shows with Sleater-Kinney, the Gossip, Unwound, Blonde Redhead, The Makers, Witchypoo, the Donnas, Shannon Wright, Murder City Devils, and Karp, to name a few. Maggie also played bass in Frenchie and the German Girls, and sang backups in the famous party-band Gene Defcon. Sarah played in one of the last incarnations of Witchypoo, and has since devoted herself full-time to painting with the exception of a one-off show in Los Angeles with noisemaker David Scott Stone. Jesse quit the band after a long U.S. tour, and Bangs went through a succession of drummers (Heather Dunn, Kyle Ermatinger) before gelling with Olympia’s multi-instrumentalist wonderboy, Peter David Connelly. They recorded their last EP, Call and Response, in a frigidly cold farmhouse basement with engineer Justin Trosper of Unwound.

Although the band had plenty associations with the riot grrrl movement (Maggie Vail’s sister is Bikini Kill’s Tobi Vail), Bangs, like Bikini Kill, didn’t identify as a riot grrrl band. They preferred the term “rock band”, crediting The Go-Go’s, The Ramones, Gary Numan, Chryssie Hynde, Elvis Costello, and Cheap Trick with inspiration. The band put out all of their releases on Kill Rock Stars except for one 7”, which was released on the tiny Olympia label Ten-In-One Records. They toured the United States extensively, and also played shows in England, Scotland, Australia, and New Zealand, where they were featured on the island country’s nightly national news. Bangs broke up in September of 2004 after Sarah moved to Los Angeles. Their last show, at Olympia’s Eagles Hall and part of Kill Rock Stars ‘Yeah! Fest!’ was festive and bittersweet. Maggie has since relocated to Portland, OR, where she plays in the bands Romancing and Leti Angel. Peter David continues to live in Olympia and play in his engaging pop band The Mona Reels. Sarah has since relocated back to the northwest and spends her time painting pictures of animals.

3) The Bangs was an early eighties garage band from LA formed by Susanna Hoffs and the Peterson sisters Vicki and Debbi. They released two singles called 'Bitchin Summer' and 'Getting out of hand/Call on me'.  They then changed their name into The Bangles in 1982, gaining more popularity over the years. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bangs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.