Banoffee (typeset as "bAnoffee") is the solo project of Australian musician Martha Brown (b. August 27), the sister of Melbourne, Victoria-based singer/songwriter Hazel Brown and formerly one-third of experimental pop band otouto. Two songs were released under the moniker - "Ninja" and "Got It" - on Brown's Soundcloud in March 2012. In July 2013, a video was released for a studio version of "Ninja," which was official released in August. December 2013 saw a new track, "Reign Down," released on Soundcloud. A video was also made for the song. In July 2014, a studio version of "Got It" was released. Brown's self-titled EP - which featured "Reign Down, "Got It" and "Ninja" - was released in October of 2014 via Two Bright Lakes. In October 2015, Brown released her second EP, entitled Do I Make You Nervous?, via Dot Dash/Remote Control. Two singles were lifted from the EP - "With Her" (2015) and "I'm Not Sorry" (2016). In December 2015, Banoffee was featured on Charles Murdoch's album "Point," singing on the track "Back To It" with Oscar Key Sung.

A new single, "Ripe," was released in 2017. Also in 2017, Brown was featured on HTMLflowers' debut album "Chrome Halo." This was followed by two singles in 2018: "Muscle Memory" in September and "Bubble" in November. She also collaborated with L8LOOMER on the single "Count On Me," with Chela on the single "Shut You Up" and with umru on the track "heat death."

Brown was featured on the track "Wish Me Luck" by Collarbones, her former Two Bright Lakes labelmates, for their 2019 album "Futurity." 2019 also saw Banoffee release a new single entitled "Tennis Fan," which features vocals from King Princess. Brown would later return the favour on King Princess' album Cheap Queen, singing on the track "Forget About It."

Banoffee released her debut album, "Look At Us Now Dad," on February 21 2020 via Dot Dash Recordings. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/bAnoffee">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.