The history of the band began in summer 2002 when Roman (vocal) and Max (guitar) having left a local band decided to create a brutal death band. They invited Anatoly to play drums. Anatoly played drums in a thrash metal band MORTIFER for 12 years, he left the band in 2000. Being a true fan of brutal music he joined the band.
The guys started rehearsals looking for a bass guitarist and a proper name of the band. Dennis Babenkov (ex-Extinction (R.I.P.)) helped the band with bass but he had to leave the band being pretty much busy with job and playing in another line-up. Tatiana was recruited as a bass guitarist. She had a got a bass guitar but never played in a band. She studied playing the accordion and the piano in a music school and played the bass guitar at school and at home.
After 6 month of rehearsals the band recorded their first album "The Wish To Bleed" and a 4 track mini album "Cut The Filthy Skin". The material was recorded in BLACK MAGICK Studio by Sergey Novikov (MORTIFER). More Hate Prod released both albums in 2004. Both Russian and foreign underground press expressed a high opinion of the releases. BARBARITY took part in a number of live shows with SCRAMBLED DEFUNCTS, MIND ECLIPSE, I CUM BLOOD, SEPTICOPYEMIA, MURK EXORBITANCE, MORTIFER, RIGORISM and others.
Inspired with success the band worked hard on the new material and recorded the album "Hell Is Here" in S.P.N. Studio (ex- BLACK MAGICK) in 2005. The album was released on October, 19, 2005 by BLACKSMITH Prod.
Tatiana had to leave the band because she had to concentrate on her own business. Unfortunately one has to choose between job ond hobby in our country
Roman,Max & AnatolyYet the band recorded the newest album "Enough Graves For Everybody" which is to be released in March 2006. Max played bass on the album recorded in S.P.N. studio.
BARBARITY
In early 2006 well-known in local underground Sergey Lopuhov joined the band, so BARBARITY now has no problems with the line up and some live concerts are planned!

Read more from: http://barbarity.artpodval.ru/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Barbarity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.