BARBAROS is an Algerian Black Metal band from Kabylia. 
The group was founded in 1998, it was the intention of the two founding members Ayrod (Vocals, Guitars) as well as Kabal (Drums, programming) to call forth a band which would contribute it's music to the black metal in the old vein of BATHORY, MAYHEM, DARKTHRONE, IMMORTAL...etc. At the end of 1999 This line-up was changed for Mounircanigula (Drums), Ayrod (Guitars), Samirstrauss (Vocals), Raoufcannibal (bass),at these times the gathering between members was rare. At the end of 2000 the line-up was flip for Lord Igret (Bass) and Kabal (Drums), Ayrod (Vocals, Guitars). Recording the first demo called "Barbaros" -self distribution to 33 copy on tape A format under the own label DARK ARTS. To play on stage, BARBAROS line-up was reinforced by Moh Strogg(Drums). after a few months of rehearsals. the first live appearance of BARBAROS takes place in festival to Urban library of Mohamadia " the nights of the correspondence " Algiers,September 27, 2001 in front of approximately 200 persons in the hall of the library. After this event, we are in 2002, some problematic appeared. the line-up was reduced to the original line-up Ayrod and Kabal. the heralds of BARBAROS continued working on new material, so different than a first demo, the idea comes without knowing what they would sound like with Synthesizer guitars in a distortion machine, the first experience was "Forest Of Anger" the second demo on DARK ARTS released less-than 25 copy on CD-r format. ever since, it was just a few response from the world. Winter 2006, it was new material called “My blood for…Tamazgha” released 200 copies by the underground black metal label Eisiger Mond Productions, situated in French, at the same times Barbaros played in tow shows with Vomygore on 28.06.06 and 13.07.06 the line-up it’s flipped between Sofian( Vomygore) to Kabal on drum and Amon( Tenebrum) to Meztoll on bass. Since some tracks was re-mastered on Amalu n Zik demo (2008). 2009, started by new line-up Slave Blaster ex-(Djemharoche, the Kult Of Satanachiia, Devast) on Drum and Morbid Profanas (ex-Djemharoche) on lead guitar, the horde playing on Wah Open Air (Oran) 23.04.2009 and Tizi ouzou 30.04.2009,After that show the line-up completed by Bass player from Axxil band Alias Nihil to play in Blacks days Fest 2010 (Annaba). at this time the band looking for gigs with a new Drummer "Smuk",Vocalist "Painser", KEyboards "Salem" and looking for label to release new full-length album CD. now the band prepare a new album and touring gigs with "Slavebalster" on Drum. The BARBAROS Battle Continues...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/BARBAROS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.