There are more than one band with this name:

1. Hungarian ethno-rock band:

   It was a new years eve party back in 1986 when Herpai and Jorgosz met. They had a blast… As a matter of fact they had so much fun that they decided to form a band. After the drunkennes was gone the plan was still alive and the band was coming together quickly.
   In February of '87 in the basement of the Lágymányos Community Centre the "ancient" Barbaro started rehearsing.
Sándor Cziranku - guitar, Sándor Herpai - drums, Miklós Lengyelfi II. - bass, Ökrös Csaba - violin and Tzortzoglou Jorgosz - lead vocal and derbuca. The Band first live gig took place at the Diósgyõr Folk Festival in the summer of '87. The Band's unusual sound was a huge success.
   The first formation of the group didn't live too long. First Ökrös, then Lengyelfi said good bye to Barbaro. They got replaced by Nikola Parov and Tamás Zsoldos.
Barbaro made its first album in 1990 with it's new line-up. The album contained covers of folk songs and it was released on Hungaroton Records. Titled simply: Barbaro I.
Barbaro made many successful tour and they even got the opportunity to play outside Hungary such as in Greece, Italy, Sicily, Austria.
   In 1992 Barbaro started to work on its second album. On this new album they had their own songs and it became obvious that Barbaro found its own more and more progressive sound. Nikola wasn't satisfied with the Band's new direction and sound so he quit the band.
Finally in '94 they had their self-released second album: Barbaro II. With the new material they got back on the road and once more they succeed in many festivals and in major cities.

   The work on their third album was hard and slow. The tension within the Band was obvious and it didn't take too long for Jorgosz to leave the band. The once creative and very important member no longer had the strength and fire to continue.

   The last live concert of the first impressive line-up was in August of '99 in Szentendre.

   After 5 long years of silence in January of 2002 Sándor Herpai called Tamás Zsoldos and Sándor Cziranku telling them about a person who could be the solution of getting the band back to alive. His name is Miklós Both.
   The reborn Band started to work on their new record with such an enthusiasm. On the 13th of November 2004 they held a comeback concert and a new chapter has begun for Barbaro....

Current members:
Miklós Both (main vocal / gtr))
Sándor Cziránku (gtr)
Sándor Herpai (drums)
Tamás Zsoldos (bass) 

2. A noise rock band from Boston, MA. Featuring Meaghan McLaughlin (Cheater Pint), Andrew Schneider (Slughog, Pigs, Placer, New Idea Society) and Mike Ushinski (Placer, New Idea Society, Stricken For Catherine). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Barbaro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.