There is more than one artist with this name.

1) Drums and bass sludge/doom metal duo from San Luis Potosi, Mexico

Bandcamp

2) Bardo plays experimental instrumental underground metal with an influence from funeral doom and depressive black metal acts, reminding of early Shining, Dolorian, Shape of Despair, or Forgotten Tomb. The music is very well constructed, balanced, epic and majestic black metal at its best! No vocals, only nice harmonies.
Bardo is runned by multi-instrumentalist Khrul from Hungary, also known from other bands like Witchcraft, Funebre, Shadowthrone, Kill With Hate, Marblebog, Siculicidium, etc.

3) Bardo was a male/female pop music duo (Sally Ann Triplettand Stephen Fischer) formed to represent the United Kingdom in the 1982 Eurovision Song Contest with the song "One Step Further".
Triplett, a children's TV presenter (Crackerjack), was previously a member of the UK's 1980 Eurovision act Prima Donna. Fischer was a singer and actor. Author John Kennedy O'Connor notes in his book The Eurovision Song Contest - The Official History that Triplett is one of only four singers to have represented the UK in the Eurovision contest twice, the others being Ronnie Carroll, Cliff Richard and Cheryl Baker of Bucks Fizz.
On the day of the Contest, Bardo were rated favourites to win by Ladbrokes bookmakers and were also rated highly by Terry Wogan. On the night, Bardo's performance was criticized for nerves and for placing more emphasis on the dance routines than the singing. "One Step Further" (written by Simon Jefferies) came seventh in the competition, below expectations. The single however performed much better in the Chart by reaching No.2 in the UK.
Bardo were managed by Nichola Martin, the woman responsible for 1981 Eurovision victors Bucks Fizz, and produced by the same producer, Andy Hill. Signed to Epic Records, plans were in place to continue Bardo's career, but subsequent singles, "Talking Out of Line" (written by Andy Hill and Nichola Martin) and "Hang On to Your Heart" (written by Ian Midman) failed to chart. An album was planned but shelved due to the low sales of the singles.
Triplett and Fischer had by this time become romantically linked and continued to stay together after the dissolution of Bardo. They also continued to perform together under a different name and spent some time in France. In 1990, Triplett gave birth to their son. They split some years after this however. Triplett has since become a successful theatre actress and performer, most notably in the musicals Anything Goes (alongside John Barrowman) and Guys and Dolls. Fischer also continues to perform in the music business, mainly on stage.

4) Bardo is an ethno-ambient artist who has released three EPs under shoki recordings, all in 2008. They are:

Deep Marsh
Abandoned Places
Roots of Mountains

5) BARDO is one of Bardo Martinez of Chicano Batman's solo endeavors. Martinez put out his first work under the name BARDO in 2020, an indie pop album called "TAKE MY HAND". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bardo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.