Edinburgh born, London Based producer Barry Can't Swim (real name Joshua Mannie) is quickly becoming well known for his trademark blend of skillfully crafted electronic production mixed with Jazz inspired strings and keys.

The classically trained artist grew to love Jazz from a young age, learning how to play the piano from the age of 9, to then working in various Jazz bars during his teenage years, which inspired a deep understanding and appreciation for the genre. During his time at university Joshua expanded his musical skill set, becoming involved in various bands, picking up the guitar, bass and drums, to then working as an intern at Glasgow's SOMA Records, giving him an insight into the underground electronic scene. Shortly after he made the move to London and became fully immersed in dance culture and electronic music, developing his solo electronic projects and honing his craft, which eventually evolved into Barry Can't Swim at the start of 2020.

Since then Barrys's rise has been unstoppable, making heads turn and feet dance on the international club circuit with his lush textures, blissed-out vocal samples and euphoric, orchestral elements. 2021 saw Barry release his debut EP "Amor Fati" with Bristol based record label Shall Not Fade with a follow up single 'Everything Is Going To Be Alright.' He shortly after joined the Ninja Tune family, releasing the critically acclaimed single 'Blackpool Boulevard' in collaboration with rising artist Anish Kumar via imprint label Technicolour Records, which lead to Billboard voting Barry Can't Swim as one of their '10 Dance Artists To Watch in 2022.' The track received amazing support (scoring a spot on the BBC Radio 1 playlist) from the likes of Pete Tong (Top 20 Countdown of 2021's Essential New Tunes) who described the record as "an utterly infectious modern dancefloor classic." Additional support came from Danny Howard (Hottest Record), Sarah Story, Clara Amfo, Jaguar, Jack Saunders and Mixmag who voted the track as one of their 'Best Tracks of the Year' saying, "The joint tune from the pair brandishes a sublime orchestral lead up to its dancefloor-moving, four-to-the-floor finale." Barry was also tipped as The Blessed Madonna's 'Ones To Watch for 22' and Annie Mac's 'New Names for 2021.'

Kicking off 2022, Barry returns to Technicolour with "More Content" -- a 4-track EP marking the producers first solo release for the label -- which showcases his vast musical knowledge and skill, blending seamlessly between Jazz, House, Techno and Jungle to name just a few. "Living in London you hear so many different styles of music just walking about, out of cars or flats and shops" he commented, "I wanted to channel that energy and appreciation of those genres." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Barry+Can%27t+Swim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.