Barthezz (real name: Bart Claessen) was born in the Netherlands on January 22nd, 1980, always loved music and got his first piano lessons at the age of seven. Impressed by electronic music at the end of the nineties, he worked hard during high school to buy his first studio equipment: a synth, a sampler, an Atari computer and a small mixer. With this equipment, he changed the attic of his parental house into a small studio and there it all began..

After graduating from high school, he started studying Music Technology at the Utrecht School Of Arts and impressed the dance scene one year later, in 2001, with his first release ever: Barthezz - On The Move.
With top dj support, it started as a massive dancehit in his home country and ended up as a worldwide charthit with releases on labels like Positiva (UK), Superstar (Germany), Avex (Japan) and Ultra (US). Top 10 positions in single charts of over ten countries were achieved, nominations for two dutch TMF Awards and almost 150.000 copies were sold in Germany only. The follow-up, Infected, had almost the same success.
This, together with many worldwide dj gigs (Trance Energy and Impulz in the Netherlands, Innercity New Zealand, Tokyo, Barcelona, Moscow, Beiruth, Warschau, Vancouver and more), placed him in the top regions of dance music instantly.

After a long break it was time to try something new and Bart decided to release his new tunes under his own name: Bart Claessen.
Persona Non Grata was the first Bart Claessen release, and also the first release on a new label founded by United Recordings, called Yakuza. The track did very well but the réal smash came undoubtedly with Playmo, in summer 2005. Support from almost every dj who plays trance, techno or anything that sounds like it and featured on many cd compilations.
Followed by the highly sought-after bootleg of Reflekt's Need To Feel Loved, a remix of Chocky's Always And Forever on Positiva, and the long awaited follow up When Morning Comes, the future surely looks good. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Barthezz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.