“On a afternoon somewhere in the beginning of 2007 two friends decided to join forces, one Dj and one producer, both sharing great passion for house music.. Bassjackers was born..!”

Bassjackers aka Marlon Flohr and Ralph van Hilst had not foreseen what was coming when they started out with their collaboration. Marlon was already Dj-ing for a while and Ralph experimented a lot with making different kinds of dance music. Marlon was mainly playing house music at the time and then the idea came to push Ralphs productions in that direction so that Marlon could play the tracks in his sets. The first track they were both satisfied with was “Beat Cut”.

They decided to send the track to some major house Djs to get some feedback and support. They immediately got support from Dutch Topjocks like Don Diablo and Erick E and Fedde le Grand charted “Beat Cut” in his top 10 and things started to roll. As “Beat Cut” got signed at Sneakerz Muzik, one can speak of a dream debut!

After “Beat Cut” their follow up “Juicy Lucy” became a real club banger aswell! It got support on big radio stations like 3FM. After that their tracks “Enowapi” “Klambu” and “Sujo” gained massive support again and got compilated at various cds like; Defected, One Love Compilation (AU), Nope is Dope, Sneakerz and the list goes on. And recently their latest weapon “16”, a collab with Dj Jorn, is creating a big buzz on the internet, making it one of the most wanted records at the moment. And after hearing it Sidney Samson immediately signed it to his label Samsobeats!

Next to their own tracks, Bassjackers are known for their infamous remixes. They have remixed artists like Ron Carrol, Ian Carey and Sidney Samson and remixed for labels like 4Kenzo, Spinnin and Kingdom Kome Cuts to name a few. Their remixes for Gregor Salto, Giorgio Giordano and Real el Canario all ended up the 1 spot on dancetunes; the leading dance portal in Holland.

They also were the ones responsible for the Quintino remix of “Rap das armas”, which they co-produced together with Quintino. The track reached the 1 spot of the official Dutch Top 40, and got over 8 millions of views on youtube!

As you can see, Bassjackers penetrated the house scene with their productions in a short period of time! From Roger Sanchez to Chuckie, from Laidback Luke to Mark Knight, everybody has some Bassjackers secret weapons in their repertoire, ready to blow up the dance floor.

On the Dj side of Bassjackers things also evolved fast. Because of their successes with their releases and remixes various party organizations started to notice them. This resulted in a residency at the biggest house concept in Holland; Nope is Dope. Now they got to play their tracks in front of thousands of enthusiastic party people. They played all the biggest clubs in Holland for various organizations like Sneakerz, Latin Village etc, but one of their highlights was playing in the MECC hallen in front of 10000 party people, the your music festival with N*E*R*D and the Summer tours across the coasts of Turkey and Spain.

Bassjackers got the opportunity to compile and mix the 3rd Nope is Dope CD! This was a great chance to show themselves to the bigger audience. The CD stormed the Dutch album charts and this put them on the map even more!!

For the future they have a lot in stock for us, working on new trax and remixes, solo and collaborations with artists like Ralvero, Oliver Twizt, Bizzey and Apster, they are about to take over!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bassjackers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.