Formerly known as Portland's Elitist.
facebook | bandcamp
Hometown: Portland, Oregon
Genre: black metal | blackened hardcore | sludge | death metal
Record Label: Season of Mist
Bookings: elitistpdx@gmail.com

Members
Taylor - guitar
Nick - Drums
Josh - Vocals
Jess - Bass
Justin - Guitar

Fusing an unhealthy dose of death metal with the heavier elements of Doom, a dissonant take on hardcore, and the visceral aspects of black metal, BASTARD FEAST have continually followed their DIY ethos. The band has been seen touring the United States relentlessly both on their own, and with such notable bands as: GAZA, ROTTEN SOUND, BLACK BREATH, LANDMINE MARATHON, and THE ACCUSED, and more

Biography
"Osculum Infame" or "The Shameful Kiss" was the supposed pledge of allegiance, which witches of both genders applied to the devil’s anus according to the perverted fantasies of sexually repressed monks and preachers during the bloody soot stained times of the witch hunts. This fits perfectly the kiss-my-ass-attitude BASTARD FEAST display on their sophomore full-length of the same name. And if you think, this is rude – just wait until you have listened to the album! Formerly known as ELITIST, BASTARD FEAST emerged on top of a new scene growing rapidly in the United States of America. Hailing from Portland, Oregon the quartet has its roots in the Hardcore scene. Yet under the influence of early Death Metal in the vein of MORBID ANGEL and a strong dose of Black Metal their sound shifted to something as fresh as radical. The crusty spirit of Sludgecore transparent in chaotic structures and moments of uncontrol was vomited upon the world with screams of anger and disgust by vocalist Joshua "Josh" Greene. This was met by the burning hatred of blazing guitars carrying the force of Death and darkness of Black Metal. Loud and passionate, ELITIST made the world pay attention; first with their self titled EP in the year 2009, then with a split 7" with TRANSIENT in 2011. Having shared stages with CARCASS, BLACK DAHLIA MURDER and ROTTEN SOUND and others, the Americans next unleashed the fury of their debut album "Fear in a Handful of Dust" (2011). Changing their moniker to BASTARD FEAST in order to avoid lengthy legal conflict, the band upped their game with "Osculum Infame". Be prepared for a brutal thrashing and lesson in devastation, which yet manages to balance out with a heavy dose of melancholy and passion capturing the essence of classic Metal. Burn in fire! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bastard+Feast">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.