Bastard Nation started in late 2000 in Cologne with former ‘Atomic Garden’ members Booce and Moe. They invited their old friend Klösél of ‘Thud’ to join the band as their frontman. After having tested 2 guitar players and drummers they finally recorded their first demo CD at the end of 2003. The demo CD of that line-up includes 4 tracks written by the band. One of these tracks ('Black Fleet') can still be downloaded on this page.

After having had continuous trouble with his drummers and missing involvement of his bandmates, Moe decided in August 2005 to move the band from Cologne to Heidelberg (from western to southern Germany). In Heidelberg, Moe, together with Dirk, had formed another band called Eternal Black in late 2002. Not having officially released any material thus far, it was decided to merge these two bands to become the new Bastard Nation line-up.
The 'new' Bastard Nation started recording new self-made songs in August 2005.

Bastard Nation has played several gigs in the surrounding area of Cologne, Germany and restarted with the new line-up at the end of 2005.

By the end of September 2006 guitarist Jan had to leave the band due to his job commitments and hence resulting lack of time.

The band recorded their first full length CD in April/May 2007 at "Noisechamber Studios" and self-released it in March 2008 entitled "Birth of a Nation".

By the end of October 2007 bass player Oli, like Jan in 2006, had to leave the band due to his job commitments and hence resulting lack of time and was replaced by new "BASStard" Nobsi who previously already helped out on some shows.

Bastard Nation writes Heavy Metal songs inspired by 80's bands such as Iron Maiden, Accept and Metallica. They mix heavy grooves and riffs with fine guitar melodies. A typical Bastard Nation live show is an homage to supreme rock-star-posing from the good old Rock’n’Roll days.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bastard+Nation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.