Batalion d'Amour is a team that has a lot of time together in the music scene. They are well-known in the Polish gothic metal scene, although their music contains many different design elements. The band began mostly as rockmetal, with elements of gothic and proressive rock. Batalion d'Amour never rigidly adhered to the gothic metal formula, and when Karolina Andrzejewska joined, replacing former singer Anna Blomberg, they lost much of their gothic aesthetic, moving towards a more progressive expression.

Batalion d'Amour have released 5 albums on CD, the first of which was in 1998. They gained popularity on the Polish tour circuit in the second half of the 90's, making multiple appearances at the Castle Party Festival, and toured with Moonlight, Closterkeller and Aion.

In 1998, they released the album "Labirynt Zdarzeñ" ("Labyrinth Events") with the label Morbid Noizz Productions. This attracted the attention of Metal Mind Productions, which resulted in a contract. The album "Dotyk Iluzji" ("Touch of Illusion"), released in 1999 and containing hits such as "Dotyk Iluzji" ("Touch of Illusion") and "W Połowie Drogi Do Nikąd" ("Halfway to Nowhere") is considered by many to be the best of the band's first four albums. A year later, Batalion d'Armour released the album "55 Minutes of Love", which has a more progressive rock style. "W Teatrze snów"  ("The Theatre of Dreams") was released in 2001, and is considered to sound more mature and refined than their previous releases.

It was four years before there was another release from Batalion d'Amour, but in December 2005, they returned to the studio and recorded the album "Niya". This album was a new look and vocal sound for Batalion d'Amour. The material on it is quite long (totalling over 60 minutes), and is stylistically diverse.


Current Line-up:
Piotr Grzesik - Bass, Vocals
Robert Kolud - Guitar
Karolina Andrzejewska - Vocals
Miros³aw Zajac - Keyboards
Mariusz "Pajdo" Pajak - Drums

Former Members:
Anna Blomberg - Vocals
Tomek Ziemiñski - Guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Batalion+d%27Amour">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.