Baton Rogue Morgue is a Finnish Metal band formed in Porvoo in 2005. Their name is offten writen as Bat6n R6gue M6rgue to imitate their logo.


In the beginning of 2005 Domino De La Rogue was on his way back to Finland from a trip to Los Angeles and on the plane he decided to finally fulfil a life long dream, to put together the best Heavy Metal band that he could possibly get. Domino had for years been playing in different bands and line ups seemed to fit or have what it takes to make it. So for starters he needed the best singer and front man in the current finnish rock scene. For Domino this was easy since he allready knew Lee Angel who was singing in a band called Hideout, so after some convinceing Lee agreed to join the vision of starting Baton Rogue Morgue and take it straight to the top.

From Dominos previous band Soulhate they took the obvious choise for a bass player,the decadent and self-destructive Timothy but by far the most talented bass player with attitude in the finnish rock scene.

After the release of the first demo and the first gig in Porvoo, Finland the trio knew that they had something unique that other bands didn’t have. The problem was to find the rest of the guys and for 3 years BRM played with a session drummer and lead guitarist. During these 3 years BRM recorded 3 full lenghted albums and played gigs.

In 2008 the original trio had had enough, they fired the session players and started to look for real members to join the BRM family.Without remembering it Domino had had for a while, always totally wasted, asked Karda to join BRM. Karda was the drummer of Skulldriver, a promising local thrash metal act. Now a sober Domino picked up the phone and was totally suprised when Karda said he agreed to join a long time ago but Domino had never rememberd it in the mornings.

At the same time Francesco "Gasoline" Mattei moved from his home country Italy to Helsinki Finland for one reason only, to join a serious Heavy Metal band. After just a week cruising the streets of Helsinki he heard that BRM was looking for a lead guitar player and went to the audition. Everything matched from the beginning and the whole gang became instant friends.

Current Line up:
Lee Angel Morgue (Fraku) - vocals
Domino De La Rogue - guitar
Timothy Baton (Timppa) - bass
Swen Deeler - drums
Francesco Gasoline Mattei - guitar 

Past Line ups included the following members:
Fraku - vocals
Domino - drums
Timppa - bass
Henga - guitar
Antto - drums
Karda - drums

The band has 5 self released albums and are now working on the 6th.
The Funeral 2005
Drowning in blood 2006
Expect No Mercy 2007
Let The Suckers Bleed 2008
High End Of The Season 2009

Baton Rogue Morgue is sponsored by
Tattoo Studio Domino.

The band is currently looking for a record/distribution deal.
For more information please visit http://www.batonroguemorgue.com/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Baton+Rogue+Morgue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.