There are two groups that go by Baton Rouge:

1. Baton Rouge was a melodic hard rock band with heavy blues overtones not that far removed from early Whitesnake and Tangier formed in 1986.

2. Baton Rouge is 4/5ths of Daïtro from France. The emo band released the LP "Fragments d'eux Mêmes" in 2011, the 7" EP "Contrepied, Contretemps b​/​w Amer" in 2011 and the LP "Totem" in 2014
http://batonrougeband.bandcamp.com/

1. The band originally formed in Louisiana as Voices and consisted of Kelly Keeling  (guitar and keyboards), Lance Bulen (vocals), Keith Harrison (bass) and Harold Knappenburger (drums). After changing their name to Meridian and finally Baton Rouge the group relocated to Los Angeles in 1987 and revamped their lineup; Keeling took over on vocals while Bulen switched to guitar and a new rhythm section of Scott Bender (bass) and Corky McClellan (drums) was added. After a mere six live shows on the Sunset Strip they were signed to Atlantic records and hooked up with producers Jack Ponti and Vic Pepe who would co-write many of their songs. Their debut album, Shake Your Soul, was released in 1990 and reached #160 on the Billboard charts. Keyboardist David Cremin, appeared on the album artwork, but didn't actually join the band until recording for the debut was finished. 
  For the follow-up album ex-Keel guitarist Tony Palmucci was brought in so that Keeling could focus solely on the vocals and Cremin was gone. Lights Out On The Playground was a commercial failure and the band promptly broke up when Keeling was offered the lead vocalist slot in Blue Murder. 
  A self-titled album,  Baton Rouge was released in 1997, but was really nothing more than Keeling supplying vocals to some Jack Ponti demos and was never really considered a group project. Keeling would resurface with the Michael Schenker Group, George Lynch and as a solo artist. Bulen joined a couple of former XYZ members in a band called Puzzle Gut before forming KingBaby. In 2001 Cremin (as vocalist) released an album with the band Roulette and Palmucci toured with Twisted Sister's Dee Snider.  A compilation album,  The Hottest of Baton Rouge was released in 2006. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Baton+Rouge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.