There are three groups using the name Battlecry. One plays 80's-style metal with a political message. One plays general metal with a focus on epic storytelling. One plays Christian rock music.

Battlecry: Pro White Heavy Metal

Battlecry's lyrics are about White Nationalism and the manipulation of the non-Jewish peoples by the Jewish Supremacists.

David Johnn and Richard "Spartan" Stewart formed the band in 2004 because they felt like there was a serious lack of Heavy Metal representation in the Pro-White Community.

David Johnn, Lead Vocalist and Bass Guitarist for the group, writes the lyrics and composes the songs, while  Richard "Spartan" Stewart, Lead & Rhythm Guitars and Drums, handles the Engineering and Production of their Recordings.

They have created a very powerful sound and both are extremely incredible musicians. David Johnn's vocals will remind you of Ronnie James Dio and Eric Adams of Manowar, while Richard Stewart's Lead Guitar playing is phenominal, he can move from extremely light, melodic parts to blazing fast runs that will remind you of players like Vai, Malmsteen, and numerous others.

As of July 2009, Battlecry has released 3 CD's:

Battlecry(2005)
Keepers Of The Light(2006)
Today Belongs To Us (2009)


"Today Belongs To Us"  is one of the most powerful Metal CD's released in this decade.  Each of their CD's is available through their homepage at http://www.battlecrymusic.com/










Battlecry: Hailing the Battlecry

Battlecry has in essence been around since 1994 when the three core members of the band, still in middle school, duct-taped some buckets together for a drum set and started a band in Nicholasville Kentucky. Over the years the band experimented with other musical styles, going through a number of name and backing guitarist changes until ultimately becoming what they are today. Battlecry's style is a little hard to categorize other than to just lump it into the general metal genre. Having roots in hardcore punk and drawing influence from many diverse artists including Billy Joel, In Flames, Loudon Wainwright, and Manowar, they have developed a varied and original style.

The core of the group are AJ, Ben, and Dan, the three original members. AJ provides vocals and plays bass and keyboard. Ben plays lead guitar. Dan plays drums. New additions are Boone and Weinstock, who fill out the band's sound with additional guitars.

The band collaborates to write the music; lyrics are typically written by AJ.

Battlecry's home page is http://battlecryonline.net/

3) Battlecry, a Christian rock band formed in 1985. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Battlecry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.