Beware the Battlewitch when the moon is fat! For they travel from Riff mountain where men are men and women are women. Battlewitch are lucky to live not far from Stonehenge and Avebury stones. Here they recharge their sonic batteries before punishing the crowd with mind-bending riffage. Live Battlewitch slay and comfort at the same time. For the Gods of Metal and Rock have smiled kindly on these four men of the riff. Battlewitch march with Metal in their hearts and a smile on their face. 

Chat to the band here - http://www.borninblood.co.uk/forum/viewforum.php?f=91

A brief brief history of The Battlewitch

Formed Jan 2005, initially as a three piece called TAGELUS featuring Mazz (vocals), Greg (guitar) and Kev (drums). Five awesome songs were written in the first awesome jam session but only three of these remained by the time we were finally christened as BATTLEWITCH and the now infamous Two Scoops was installed as bassist. The first life changing BW live experience was in a chav filled pool room in Swansea April 2005 and the first EP “Dawn Of Ruin” was released in October of the same year. More venue shattering gigs followed supporting such luminaries as Marshall Law and Truckfighters and minds were blown – culminating in the release of the now much acclaimed “Fyredroyde” disc in May 2006 which won new allies here and overseas. Scoops was replaced at the turn of the following year by the legend “HEAVY METAL” Jim who came in initially to cover for a few months but took in such highlights as the tour of Ireland and heroic performances at Metalbrew, Riffstock and Awesomefest. In the end he stuck around until April 2008, helping to us to lay down some fresh new recordings. Bassist number three jumped into the fray a month later, the mighty mighty Simon “Thee ‘Awke” Hawke and the metal machine rolls steadily onwards crushing all in it’s sorry wake. More songs are to be recorded by the end of this year in advance of the long awaited debut album (currently titled “Wessex Steel”) being released in 2009. 

Current Discography

October 2005 – DAWN OF RUIN EP

1. The Legend Of Battlewitch
2. Forsaken Pagan
3. Mountain
4. Dawn Of Ruin
5. Astral Journey

May 2006 – FYREDROYDE EP

1. Thee Last Sabbath
2. Children Of The Wytch
3. Doom Or Die
4. Fyredroyde <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Battlewitch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.