There are various different bands known as Battery :

1) Battery was a Washington D.C. hardcore band that existed from 1990 until 1998 and re-formed for a brief reunion in 2012. During this time they released a 7", a split 7" with Ignite, two MCDs and three full-length albums on Deadlock, Lost & Found, Tidal, Conversion, and Revelation Records.

The guitarist and main man was Ken Olden, who also played in Damnation A.D., Better Than a Thousand, When Tigers Fight, Worlds Collide, Far Cry and Fort Knox and filled in on bass for Youth of Today on their 2003 European reunion tour.

Singer Brian McTernan, a well known hardcore record producer, presently owns and operates Salad Days recording studio in Baltimore and also played guitar in the D.C. emo hardcore band Ashes, as well as Miltown and My Best Mistake.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battery_(band)

2) Battery is a thrash metal band from Denmark and was formed in febuary 2008 by Chris, Andreas and former rhythm guitarist Dennis, shortly after the demise of their former band Abattoir.
The first rehearsal demo was recorded in 2008 and pressed on tape in 15 copies given to friends.
Shortly after, Dennis left the band and the band went on ice until the summer of 2009 when Jannick joined as both first and current bass player.

In 2009 the demo “Born In a Beaker” was recorded and released by the band itself in 100 copies on tape, and was spread throughout the Danish underground paving the way for the first gigs – the first being with Crematoria and Pagan Rites in April 2010, and the second in July at the Metal Magic Festival – accompanied by Atziluth on Live-guitar.
Atziluth was soon replaced by Jeppe Campradt until the summer of 2011 where Jeppe became the current rythm-guitarist in Battery.

2011 saw the first release on Deadbangers Productions (also the last release as a 3-piece) entitled “NUKE” which was distributed and sold far beyond Denmark, and soon followed up by the EP “Mental Pollution“, also on tape by/through Deadbangers Productions.

2014 will see the release of the first full-length album by Punishment 18 Records, containing 10 tracks of frantic and intense Thrashing Speed-Metal fury!!

3) Battery was also an electronic-industrial trio who had their first release in 1990 on Dynamophone - their self titled album battery. Their next album Democratic Artillery was followed by Ostrich and Eternal Darkness. They went on to release Meat Market, Mutate, Lilith 3.2, NV, Distance, Aftermath, and Momentum, all on COP International. For fans they also released a digital only EP entitled Debris for free download on their website. They have since split but former band members have since been involved in Axoe, Bloodwire, Curium, Dia, Ivoux, Skycrash, and Thorn Apple. 

4) Battery, a Philippine hard rock/metal trio, released their debut album Battery in 2000. 

5) Battery - Metallica Tribute Band

6) Battery - Sri Lanka. ‘Battery’ is a relatively new band consisting of four talented young musicians with a passion for making original music with a local flavour and exposing it to first the nation and then the world. We specialize in juxtaposing the old uplifting chart music from the 70s, 80s and 90s with our own beats and creating masterpieces that are sure to take the nation & world by a pleasant surprise.

7) A drum and bass outfit formed from Craggz & Parallel Forces.

8) an idiot with drums and a computer from LA 

9) Sinclair McRickson from Suavity's Mouthpiece <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Battery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.