There are multiple artists/groups with the name BATTLE.

1. British rock band.
2. Finnish black metal band.
3. Korean vocal group -> 배틀

1) Battle: formerly known as Morphic Fields and Killing Moon, Battle were together between 1999 and 2007. Bunking PE in South London to play guitar, Jason Bavanandan and Jamie Ellis were inspired in equal measure by The Beatles, Motown, Britpop, and Nirvana. In 2000, the pair left school for Kent University in search of a band, finding Pixies enthusiast, Tim Scudder and, later garage-head, Oliver Davies. After two years of committed practice and sporadic gigging in both the cathedral city and metropolitan London, the group remained unheralded. Leaving Canterbury, Morphic Fields retreated to a disused bank vault under Luton High Street, to continue their work as the Donnie Darko inspired Killing Moon.  After a brace of well received gigs in Lewisham, the band secured new management and studio time, leading to the demo, "Tendency" and wider interest. They changed their name to Battle in an attempt to convey how they fought for their dreams. This ideal of struggle and aspiration pervades much of their work. 

In 2005, Battle embarked upon a series of small tours, releasing the singles, "Isabelle/ Feel The Same" and "Demons/ Damascus" both of which sold out within days. Support slots with the likes of Bloc Party, The Rakes, and British Sea Power followed.

In February, 2006, relocating to Jacobs Studio, Surrey (where The Smiths recorded much of The Queen Is Dead), the band pushed themselves harder than ever before, under the watchful eye of Gareth Jones. In a ten-day heave of energy, as winter turned to spring, the band finally captured songs for the mini-album, "Back to Earth" as well as several earmarked for next years full length LP.

April saw Tendency hit the UK top 40, with newspaper The Sun calling Battle "the best thing there" after a good showing at the SxSW festival in Texas. In June a further single, "Children" was released. The promotional video filmed to accompany the track found Jason battling invisible, malevolent forces and was produced by Type2error, known for their work with Hope of the States and Bloc Party.

In July, Jacobs Studio was broken into. Copies of Battle's master tapes were among those stolen, with an album named Back to Earth issued on the gray market in plain black cases. This was reputedly originally intended to be the band's debut album. The album was never released, though several tracks were included on Back to Earth and its B-sides in October, with the band citing a wish to record new material.

In 2007 new single "The Longest Time" was released on July 2nd, in advance of their showing at the summer festival circuit. The majority of the new album was reputedly written in the six months preceding its recording. A new album, also titled Break the Banks, was released on September 3rd 2007. It contained 3 tracks from the 2006 sessions, 6 new songs and a re-recording of "Demons."

The band were forced to postpone gigs due to illness within the band on September 17th, and this was their last official communique with the world. Disappointing album sales, tension from within, and a lukewarm critical response meant that the band was simply no longer a viable proposition. The band broke up on October 3rd and a final single "Paper Street" was released in London limited to 5000 copies on October 23rd.

2) Battle was a Finnish black metal band before they changed their name to Ravening. They released one demo called War Messiah in 1998 which contained three songs entitled "War Messiah," "Inhuman Breed," and "Bloodhunger."

3) Battle:Also a Korean male band with dance beat genre. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Battle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.