Beatrice Annika Miller (born February 7, 1999) better known simply as Bea Miller is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She makes passionate, electronic-inflected pop music and is best known for competing on the second season of The X Factor. A native of Maplewood, New Jersey, Miller began performing at a young age and by her teens had garnered voice acting credits in such films as Ice Age 3 and Toy Story 3. In 2012, Miller auditioned for and won a spot on the second season of the Fox singing competition with her performance of the Dixie Chicks' "Cowboy Take Me Away." During the show's boot-camp phase, Miller was assigned pop star and judge Britney Spears as her mentor. Although she performed well on the show and drew a large fan following, she ultimately exited in ninth place.

After leaving The X Factor, Miller signed a recording deal with Hollywood Records/Syco Music and began work on an album. Following an initial five-song EP, she delivered her 2015 full-length debut album, Not an Apology, which featured production from the Suspex, Mike Del Rio, Matt Squire, and others. The album peaked at number seven on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, and featured the singles "Young Blood" and "Fire N Gold." Spring 2016 brought a new single titled "yes girl," which featured heavily in her live sets that summer.

The following winter, Miller teased the release of her sophomore full-length album, aurora, by issuing the first of an intended trilogy of EPs beginning with chapter one: blue in February 2017. chapter two: red and chapter three: yellow followed during the summer. In February 2018 she delivered aurora, which compiled all three of her trilogy EPs plus 5 additional tracks, including the single "mother." Miller was also featured on NOTD single titled "I Wanna Know", which became their biggest hit to date.

During 2019, Miller released a number of singles that were originally intended for her third studio album, which was named 'sunsets in outerspace,' however in July 2020, Miller confirmed her third album wouldn't come until 2021 earliest and the whole space theme has 'run its course.' The first single released was, it's not u it's me with 6LACK, on March 1st, 2019. Bea released 4 other singles throughout 2019, feel something, feels like home (with Jessie Reyez), never gonna like you (with Snakehips) and that bitch. She also embarked on two tours supporting her 2019 singles, nice to meet u which began in North America on April 29th, 2019 and concluded May 18th, 2019. She also embarked on the sunsets in outerspace tour starting in London on September 23rd, 2019 and concluding in LA on November 30th, 2019.

During the coronavirus pandemic, Miller confirmed she will not release a full studio album in 2020 but will release an EP of 6 new songs, after scrapping the space theme and previous singles. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bea+Miller">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.