Bearsuit were an art-rock/dance/punk band from Norwich, UK. Comparisons include Architecture in Helsinki, Everything Everything, The Go! Team, Sonic Youth, Deerhoof, Huggy Bear, and Black Kids.

Lisa Horton, Jan Robertson, and Iain Ross continue to record together as Mega Emotion and Lady Di


New single 'Princess, You're A Test' (5 September 2011) is available as a free download at http://eepurl.com/bize9. The new album "The Phantom Forest", recorded by Gareth Parton (The Go! Team, Foals, The Breeders), was released on 14 March 2011 on Fortuna Pop! (Pains of Being Pure At Heart, Crystal Stilts). 

In 2011, Bearsuit toured in the UK and played out in Austin, Texas at SXSW, Primavera Festival and Contempopranea Festival, Spain and toured in Europe. They are now writing new songs but will be hitting the road for a few shows in the UK in October and November.

Bearsuit have previously played various festivals including Latitude, Bestival, The Great Escape and Offset, as well as several abroad including SXSW, Emmaboda (Sweden) and CMJ in New York, where they were voted ‘Best Breakthrough Act’ in a New York Times poll of badge-holders and received shining reviews, including Pitchfork.

The band have also supported the likes of Crystal Castles, Factory Floor, Melt Banana, Future of the Left, Lightspeed Champion, and Hot Chip.

They have previously released records on Fantastic Plastic Records (Ash, Ikara Colt, The Futureheads, Guillemots), Happy Happy Birthday To Me (US) (Bunnygrunt, The Lovely Eggs, Hotpants Romance) and Micro Indie (US) (Sodastream, The Universe, The Icicles).

The band have been championed by BBC radio DJs including John Peel, Steve Lamacq, Huw Stephens, Zane Lowe, Rob Da Bank, Phill Jupitus, Marc Riley, Tom Ravenscroft, Tom Robinson, Colin Murray, Gideon Coe and John Kennedy on XFM.

Accolades include scooping 'Vinyl of the Week' in the NME, 'Pick of the Week' in The Guardian, and 'Album of the Fortnight' in Artrocker.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bearsuit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.