There are multiple artists that have performed under the name Beast: 

1. BEAST were a South Korean boy band, formed in 2009 by Cube Entertainment. The band consists of five members: Yoon Doo-joon, Yong Jun-hyung, Yang Yo-seob, Lee Gi-kwang and Son Dong-woon. Jang Hyun-seung officially departed from the group on April 19, 2016. They are now known as Highlight.

2. "BEAST" is a drum/noise project from Portland OR. Active since 2005. Daniel Menche being the core member for recordings with an open door of guest noise makers.

3. A Canadian indie, electronic music duo based out of Montreal, Quebec. Beast’s members include vocalist and lyricist Betty Bonifassi and composer/producer Jean-Phi Goncalves.

4. A psychedelic rock band from Colorado, that charted its self-titled debut LP in 1969.

5. A psychological rock and roll 4-piece from Cape Town, South Africa, featuring Lark’s Inge Beckmann (vocals), Taxi Violence’s Rian Zietsman and Louis Nel (both on bass) and The Plastics’ Sasha Righini (drums).

6. Hardcore/Punk band from Stockholm, Sweden. 

7. A Japanese rock band that got their start on Extasy International, a record label in Japan run by Yoshiki of X-JAPAN. They released one album called “Imagination-lens”.

8. A Hardcore band from Salinas and Santa Cruz, CA featuring members of The Wrath and No Truce. 

9. Simon Posford (Hallucinogen) & Sean Williams (Process), goa trance duo.

10. Beast (Singen, DE) was a German heavy metal band from the 1980s who released five albums.

11. A band formed in the early 1980’s by Bryan Gregory (ex-guitar of The Cramps) and singer Andrella. This band released 3 singles before evolving into the band “The Veil”

12. Beast is an up and coming deathcore act based out of Upstate New York. 

13. BEAST is a new project by composer Koen Holtkamp, known for his sweeping, maximalist work with Mountains, as well as his labyrinthian solo recordings. While taking some time away from music to focus on working with light and color his approach shifted, opening himself up to new working methods which led to the creation of a virtual ensemble of sorts. The process of refocusing on music found Holtkamp gravitating towards pieces centered on simple rhythmic patterns which, when built upon one another, create elaborately intertwining castles of sound. On Ens, Holtkamp reins in his sprawling sound with new resolve, crafting tightly constructed pieces of engaging and ecstatic beauty.

14. "BEAST” is a voice of and for the wilderness that combines poetry, theatrical masks, ancient rhythms, traditional and modern dance forms, with a heavy side of the blues. Beauty and mystery get woven into music and song that call your mind, body and soul back to the re-enchantment of the wild. Ecstatic prophecy mixed with theological insurrection dredged up from the swamp of souls and cooked over a slow burning midnight fire in the outback campsites of many resistance movements across time. BEAST listens to the elements, eats their messages and regurgitates it back to those listening through a sonic portal of lament, ancestral awakening, and defiance. https://beast11.bandcamp.com/releases

15.  Beast (Düsseldorf, DE), along with a band called Snakebite was a precursor to Warlock.  They released one demo tape in 1981 that has since been bootlegged a few times.

16.   Beast (Hamburg, DE), was a Black/Thrash Metal band from Germany. They released some demos around 2008/9. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beast">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.