There’s a method to the magic, and particularly, a method to the magic of HipHop. Mix one part Cali – wide streets, bright lights, and funk infused sounds continually dressed for summer - and one part Somerset UK, rolling green hills and endless blue skies (in the summer anyway) and it seems that you’ve got the method behind the magic of tracks like “'Stoopid Dope Move's'”, the Beatnick Dee produced Joe Scudda song which dropped in 2010 and 2011’s ‘Through the flames’ from Co$$ & Blu. You’ve also got the story behind the up and coming hip-hop producer Beatnick Dee. Born with beats in his blood (his mother was a percussionist in the 70s and can be credited on a few fusion LP’s) Born in San Francisco, but lived most of his life in the Uk, he's now returned to California and settled down in LA to further pursue contributing to the genre he loves and build a career as a producer.

Not to be mistaken for your average every day producer, his love of hip hop spills over into every crevice of the scene – art, film and beyond. He’s loaned his music to produce soundtracks for short films including street artist Nick Walker's 'Le Corancan' and Eastpak's 'B-Boy Throwdown'. He’s also put pen to page interviewing highly acclaimed artists including new-age Soul singer Mayer Hawthorne and Rhymesayers' Brother Ali.

Also as a rep for independent label Tres Records, the versatile producer hopes to further cement himself as an up and coming producer to watch out for in 2012.

He's currently working on his debut production album titled 'Creative Medicine' to drop later this year. The project will feature Joe Scudda, Co$$, Sene, Denitia Odigie, Blame One, Koncept, J57, Sav Killz, Dynas, The Regiment, Cappo, Iron Braydz and more. Also expect more work with frequent west coast collaborator Co$$, and an array of album placements later on in 2012

Look out for a Kevin Nottingham presented Beat mix of brand new, unreleased and forthcoming tracks on various projects, in the coming weeks called '20 For 12'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/BEATNICK+DEE">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.