Beauty Pill is an indie rock band from Washington DC with band members once/currently affiliated with Smart Went Crazy, Del Cielo, Most Secret Method, Bald Rapunzel, Druids, Casino Action, Soccer Team, The Routineers, Faraquet, Medications, and Heat Better Scream.

The brain child of Chad Clark, Beauty Pill creates atmospheric indie rock including subjects such as drug use, murderous thoughts and events, and complex love relations. Beauty Pill has had two previous female vocalists, Joanne Gholl and Rachel Burke. The steady line up includes Chad Clark (vocals, guitar, song writing), Basla Andolsun (bass guitar), Drew Doucette (guitar), and Ryan Nelson (drums).

Beauty Pill began as a studio project with Chad Clark, Joanne Gholl, and Abram Goodrich. They were the creative force behind The Cigarette Girl from the Future. Ryan Nelson was brought in as they tried to become a touring outfit, and Joanne and Abram dropped out as they were unable to commit to such a band. Then, Rachel, Basla, and Drew joined, and they began playing shows together. In late 2004, early 2005, Rachel moved back to Seattle to be closer to her family, and Jean Cook was brought in to take over vocals and wurlitzer. After a brief tour in the beginning of 2005, Beauty Pill went into "hibernation," during which Ryan Nelson left the band. He was replaced by Devin Ocampo and Chad Molter.

In June 2006, Chad Clark took over a fan-created MySpace and began posting updates about Beauty Pill, including a new song and tourdates.[1] The curent touring band includes Basla Andolsun (bass), Chad Clark (voice, guitar, treatments), Jean Cook (voice, wurlitzer, skilletophone, strings), Drew Doucette (guitar), Devin Ocampo (drums, guitar) and Chad Molter (percussion, guitar, drums, bass). Clark attributes the band's relative inactivity from 2003 - 2006 to the time commitment required to operate Silver Sonya, the studio he runs with Aloha's T.J. Lipple <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beauty+Pill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.