There are 3 artists with the name beaumont: 1. A Sydney based electronic musician, 2. A (now defunct) pop group based in London & 3. A Glasgow based electronic musician

1. beaumont

Utilising the warm, retro sounds of analogue synthesisers, beaumont creates rich landscapes full of  8-bit arpeggios, leftfield glitch-outs, disco strings and summery, chord-driven nostalgia. 

beaumont's more esoteric mid-tempo numbers have been described as "roving, glitch-filled retro epics", while his bit-crushed, French-tinged dance-floor-ready tunes have been called "videogame mystery-funk".

beaumont is a firm favourite among internet music blogs due to his bootleg and commissioned remix work, having remixed the likes of Ladyhawke, Empire of the Sun, Emil & Friends, Nightwaves, Oasis, Kylie Minogue and most recently, Dragonette.

His debut EP is slated for release in early 2010.

http://www.myspace.com/beaumontspace

2. Beaumont

"Once instigators of Blueboy and Arabesque, Paul Stewart and Keith Girdler return with a concept record that sparkles with higher levels of wit, sophistication and polish of the best of their former bands. This admirable record is the fruit of irony, jazz, Italian films, The Last Of England, schoolgirls, frivolities, London poetry, latin misery, exotic tourism and the exhilaration of youth. Superb, unusual, outstanding are adjectives too often used, however, as one listens to the swinging cuts from this album all of these immediately come to mind. Now is the time, this is the place. This is Beaumont. " - taken from offical website

They released
This Is... (LP+CD) March 2000 on Siesta Records - SIESTA 112
Discotheque A La Carte (CD5) 2000 on Siesta Records - SIESTA 95
Tiara (CD) April 2003 on Siesta Records - SIESTA 152
No Time Like the Past (CD) 2005 on Siesta Records  - Siesta 202

3. Beaumont

http://www.myspace.com/beaumontmusiques

In the words of  Brighton based music bloggers: www.20jazzfunkgreats.co.uk

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beaumont">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.