Because of Ghosts are a three-piece instrumental post-rock act based in Melbourne, Australia. They are: Jacob on drums, Reuben on guitar, Domenic on bass and Glockenspiel.

Critically acclaimed Melbourne instrumental trio Because of Ghosts’ second album “This Culture of Background Noise” was released in September 
2008. The album was tape-recorded in Montreal at Hotel2Tango by Howard Bilerman (Arcade Fire, Silver Mt. Zion) with additional production work from Efrim Menuck (Godspeed You! Black Emperor, Silver Mt. Zion) and guest strings from Thierry Amar and Jessica Moss.
 
“This Culture of Background Noise” sees the band returning to their roots -stripped down guitar, bass and drums. Working with developed melodies, raw textures, and established composition, Because of Ghosts have created a mature work, further distinguishing themselves as a unique force in the post-rock genre.

Because of Ghosts' debut album, 'The Tomorrow We Were Promised Yesterday' was a culmination of many months of both precise and raw production. The band utilised the stifling humidity of a North Melbourne warehouse, the natural reverb of a Johnston Street garage, the ambience of Soundpark's parquetry, field recordings from Japan, and the warmth of friends, family and two-inch tape.

For those who came in late...

Because Of Ghosts have been performing their own brand of instrumental music since late 2002.

After some well received demos, and a split ep with friends Adlerseri, brothers Reuben, Domenic and Jacob independently recorded and released a mini album, 'Make Amends With Your Adversary Before Dawn'. This record gained an international release with Japanese label Wonderground Music.

In 2004, the band released an EP entitled 'Your House Is Built On A Frozen Lake'. This EP established the band's strong Melbourne following and widened their fan base nationally through CD sales, national airplay, and interstate tours.

In October 2004 'the because of ghosts live 12" with an etching on side b' was released on Art School Dropout Records, consisting of four tracks recorded live in Sydney.

2005 saw B.Ghosts support U.S. group Tortoise and complete a successful tour of Japan. Stylistically, they recall the epic prettiness of Do Make Say Think, or the rambling guitar style of Dirty Three's Mick Turner.

Their debut album-proper, 'The Tomorrow We Were Promised Yesterday', was released in late 2006 through Feral Media.

In July 2007, Because of Ghosts played shows across Canada. A limited Canadian Tour EP was available at the band's final Australian shows and across Canada. Each EP featured unique hand drawn cover art. After the tour, the band recorded a new album at the Hotel2Tango in Montreal with producer Howard Bilerman. The album, "This Culture Of Background Noise" was released in Australia in September 2008.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Because+of+Ghosts">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.