There are five artists with the name "Bee":  
1. A musician from Boston
2. A lo-fi home recording artist from Albuquerque
3. A neo-soul  collaboration consisting of Aloe Blacc and the Cradle Orchestra
4. An American/English pop/rock group
5. A UK-based songwriter and variety streamer on Twitch

bee is blane rogers from boston
www.myspace.com/atinybee



bee is a new pop band with a set of sinfully catchy and rocking melodies. It is the brainchild of songwriter, singer, and multi-instrumentalist Nicholas Markos, who has built a significant reputation with solo records and performances, as well as his work with English chanteuse Cath Carroll (Factory, Teenbeat), Last Gentlemen (Zoo), and other artists. 

bee is a showcase for what Markos calls "pop magic". Not beholden to trends or formats, bee capitalizes on strong melodies, concentrated pop-rock arrangements, and soulful, resonant themes. The songwriting and sound have been compared to the most respected work of Oasis, Pete Townshend, and David Gray. Fresh, sing-along melodies like the chorus of “The Theme From Hot Doug’s” and the driving hook of “Birdy Deluxe Superstar” are irresistible hits that make you want to put the top down and blast the radio on a summer day.

Markos’s live-performance credits include opening sets for Bob Dylan, Melissa Etheridge, the Violent Femmes, Todd Rundgren, Roger McGuinn, Squeeze, and many others. The other bee musicians have similarly impressive credits: Todd Sucherman (Brian Wilson, Styx), Mike Zelenko (Material Issue), Howie Kantoff (Poster Children), Eddie Carlson (Poi Dog Pondering), Mark Schwarz (David Singer & the Sweet Science), and Matthew Payne (Hot Glue Gun) all appear on the recordings.

Greg Kot of the Chicago Tribune calls him “one of Chicago’s most promising performers,” and Jim DeRogatis of the Chicago Sun-Times said of his most recent work, “A slave to no genre, the ridiculously prolific Nicholas Markos brings to mind a hipper underground version of David Gray. He could be dangerous.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bee">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.