Beeda Weeda extraordinaire, the 24 year-old Producer/Rapper from East Oakland, CA, hit the scene in the early 2006 with his first single “Turfs Up.”  Soon after, he made Bay Area history by remixing the smash to include such greats as E-40, Turf Talk, Dem Hoodstars, Too Short, San Quinn and Eddie P. You may have heard his production for such artists as: Suga Free, Yukmouth, Askari X, Under Survalance and the Brooklyn-based Wildcats. You may have heard him rhyme on a number of Bay Area compilations and collaborations. Beeda's homebase is Oakland’s PTB Records (Pushing the Beat) who not to long ago merged with Clear Label Records (founded by Tajai of the legendary Hieroglyphics) to form the ClearBeat label. This was unexpected move for both labels considering they march to beat of a different drum, (for lack of better words) yet both have had great independent success. 
Young Beeda Weeda hails from the notorious Murder Dubbs neighborhood in East Oakland, which sets the backdrop for his raw and uncut lyrics.  He first showcased his skills on a national scale with Homework, an all-original mix-album (ClearBeat, May 2006; Mixed by the Bay Area Mixtape Kings The Demolition Men) in May of 2006.  Not long after Beeda released his now classic debut album, Turfology 101 (ClearBeat/Hiero Imperium, July 2006) which has definitely created a major buzz and enabled Beeda to solidify his presence in the industry. The “Turfs Up” video aired on 32 stations and generated over 1,000,000 hits online.  Beeda was also number 3 on Myspace's top 10 Hip Hop/Rap artists. 
Even without such impressive stats, it is easy to see that Beeda is talented and exudes a captivating swagger.  He is also versatile, prolific and produces classics. Beeda plans to further build his legacy in 2008 and beyond.  Since dropping Turfology 101, Beeda has featured on numerous albums and made several TV appearances. He has also filmed 2 more videos; "On Like Shit” (from the Homework album) and "U Don't Hear My Tummy" (from his upcoming SMC/Thizz/Clearbeat, Fall 2008 album, The Thizness). The latter is in heavy rotation online and generating major views.  Beeda also recently released his second all-original Mix-album "Talk Shit Swallow Spit" (ClearBeat, 2008; also arranged by the Demolition Men), and is now putting the final touches on his 2nd full-length album, Baserock Babies  (ClearBeat, Summer 2008).  This album, produced by Dj Fresh of “Tonite Show” fame, is a throwback to the gritty sounds golden-era Hip-Hop. All of this is done in preparation for the release of his opus, Turf Radio (Clearbeat, 2009), which promises to be another classic.  
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beeda+Weeda">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.