BEFORE THE TORN is a metalcore band from Lisbon, Portugal.


In the beginning of 2004, BEFORE THE TORN came up as the result of some experimental projects, trying to make something out of the inspiration given to them by their favourite metal bands. After having enough songs to play live shows, they start to play live on a regular basis and sharing stages with many hardcore/metal bands like For The Glory, Blacksunrise, Men Eater and Devil In Me. The band started gaining some good responses on their sound and live performance. Back in the end of 2005, they wanted to record their first demo and wanted it to be recorded in a good studio in order to give the songs what they deserve and to give the band some credibility as well, but the set budjet was low. So they postponed the recording and continued to play live. Some months later when everything was going smoothly, the band was not happy with their sound, knowing they could do a lot better, they decided to take some time off from live shows and in a daring move decided to stop playing all the songs written to that day to start writing new and improved material. Then, ready to pursue their musical goals, they started writing new songs and were very happy about how they sounded. So happy that they gathered a lot of money to record in Generator Studios in Sintra, one of the top studios in Portugal with Miguel Marques (from Easyway fame) in charge of the production and recording of their five songs EP titled “Behind Every Treason”. After a great and very teaching recording weekend, the mixed recording followed to Sweden to the hands of Peter In De Betou at Tailor Maid Studios for the final mastering process. After that the EP artwork was concluded. 
BEFORE THE TORN were ready to return to stage with a fresh new sound, look, the mixture between melodic and destroying riffs. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Before+The+Torn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.