Before Dawn is a “Super hot DIY Duo who makes sexy, nerdy, dance music with heavy beats, epic rock guitars, and experimental pop aesthetics. Austin, TX’s bravest buzz band!” – INsite Magazine

It is no surprise to find out that this duo majored in theater, and in fact that is where Rob and Kate met. Before Dawn bridges the gaps between synth-laden electro pop, post punk/alt. rock and club music.  Their stage show is 100% Rock and Roll fun, complete with high kicks! That’s right ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing the glorious return of the almighty guitar solo; but you don’t have to stop dancing to enjoy it!  Audiences leave the venue after a show out of breath, covered in sweat, smiling from ear to ear and still wanting more.

Before Dawn crafts catchy pop songs with the aggressiveness of a heavy metal band while also being experimental, and even building some of their own synthesizers. Though Before Dawn has never striven to model their sound after other bands, most frequently fans immediately draw comparisons to The Killers, The B52’s, Talking Heads, and Arcade Fire. Despite being a duo, Before Dawn creates a massive wall of sound and provides a huge, personality filled, stadium sized performance in a small, convenient package, “it’s hard to believe that its just two people creating such a thick and robust yet perky sound.” – Unsigned The Magazine

Rob and Kate base themselves in Austin, TX and tour frequently.  They have played New York, Boston, Los Angeles, Kansas City, Chicago, Madison, Milwaukee, Miami, Orlando, Tampa/St. Pete and Sarasota as well as many more.  Before Dawn has also been exciting crowds at festivals such as Tropical Heat Wave, North VS. South, Texas Rock Fest, Steel Bridge Songfest and Sled Island Festival in Calgary just to name a few.

To date Before Dawn has three releases, “Drowning” (LP), “Beats for Heat”(EP), and “Brush With Greatness a new LP that will officially be released in spring 2011.  As the buzz continues to grow the momentum of this touring machine will not slow down any time soon.

http://www.beforedawnband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Before+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.