Beherit is a black metal/electronic band from Finland. Their name is the Syriac word for Satan. The band was formed in 1989 by Nuclear Holocausto Vengeance (Marko Laiho), Black Jesus (Arjo Wennström) and Sodomatic Slaughter (Jari Pirinen), with the purpose of performing "the most primitive, savage, hell-obsessed black metal imaginable." Due to their unconventional music, visuals, and live performances, the band quickly attracted a cult following. Besides the raw sound, the band's music is noted for its avant-garde side and emphasis on atmosphere, and Beherit are considered a pioneering force in the genre.

As a full band from 1989 to 1993, they released a large amount of demos, a demo compilation CD named "The Oath of Black Blood" in 1991, and the album "Drawing Down the Moon" in 1993, both of which are considered classics of the style. Laiho, the group's frontman, would continue the band as a solo project after "Drawing Down the Moon" and released an EP called "Messe Des Mortes" 1993, as well as two more albums under the band's name. These albums, H418ov21.C from 1994 and Electric Doom Synthesis from 1995, were dubbed "ritual ambient" by the band. Much like the metal recordings from the band, these electronic releases have a cult following. After these albums were released, Beherit effectively ceased to exist, although Laiho would release another album of electronic material under the name Suri Shamaani in 1999.

Original members Nuclear Holocausto and Sodomatic Slaughter reformed the band in 2008, now a four-piece featuring new members Ancient Corpse Desekrator and Abyss. With this new lineup the album Engram would be released in 2009, which is largely considered a return to form to the band's metal era. In 2011, a recording for what the band had planned to release as a debut in 1990 would be unearthed and released as "At the Devil's Studio 1990", and this would be followed up with the "Celebrate the Dead" EP in 2012.

In 2020, Beherit would return with a new album, Bardo Exist. This album was a radical departure from Engram's sound, having returned to an electronic sound much like the band had created as Laiho's solo vehicle in the mid-90s. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beherit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.