For booking visit:
http://www.kitemediaproductions.com

Behead The Dead is a death/groove metal band from Portugal. Previously known as Tribal Phever, Behead the dead are now back with a brand new style and name. Formed in December 2007 as a small heavy band, Behead The Dead are gradually becoming more than just a small band. Behead The Dead consists of three members: Matthew Jozsef (Lyricist and Vocalist), Adam Kirchberger (Drums) and Jeremy Pringsheim (Guitars). Ever since the beginning, Behead The Dead went through a lot of changes. At first they started as an Extreme Metal band. This was when they wrote the song “Disappear”. However before they could finish that song, they decided to change their style to a mixture of Progressive and Death Metal, and therefore the song “Disappear” was never released. During their “Progressive era” they wrote 3 songs: “1000 Deaths”, “Train” and “ Sound Of Pain”. These songs were intended to be on their 10 song demo album “An Absconding Recluse”. But the more practices they had together, the more they were getting better and more original. Behead The Dead were at a point where they thought there was not a thing in the world that could ever stop them from getting gigs and fans now.

Then in July 2008 they took a 2 month break for the summer holiday. After the summer in September, they returned to their practice space, to lay down some new material. However they had to face the fact that a lot of things had changed during those 2 months in which they hadn’t played together. The main thing being that the drummer and the guitarist had joined another band called “Joramythic”, later on known as “Forgiven Lie”. But soon the guitarist realized that the new band was just a messing around thing for the summer and did not want to be a part of it anymore. However the drummer started seeing things in a different way. He no longer felt comfortable playing Progressive Metal, he seemed to be happier playing the softer and simpler music that Forgive Lie had created during the summer holiday. This was mainly due to the drummer's new influences, which had led his playing into a different direction. Jeremy and Matthew however were both very confused, they thought they had lost their drummer and they had no idea were to go from there. Therefore they decided to concentrate more on their side project “SuperCow” and later with time, they also picked up a new musical direction from their new influences.

Time passed and Behead The Dead was still split in two parts, one part with Adam playing Rock/Metal in Forgiven Lie and the other with Matthew and Jeremy playing Metal/Groove Metal in SuperCow. After a few months Adam realized he had made a huge mistake, as the only person with whom he could compose songs, to his full potential, was Jeremy. Therefore around February 2009 Adam and Jeremy decided to start jamming again, that's when they wrote both parts for the song “Incense”. “Incense” was not intended to be a new Behead The Dead song, it was just written for their own entertainment. However later they decided to add vocals to their song and that is when Matthew came back into the picture. At that point “Incense” was still not meant to be a new Behead The Dead song. It was only after they realized the song was good in all ways and that they wanted to perform it live, that they decided to bring Behead The Dead back. The new song, “Incense”, had a different sound to the old Behead The Dead and therefore once again they decided to change their style. Their current style is a mixture of Death Metal and Groove Metal.

After such a long journey and being split up for 5 months, Behead The Dead are now back, stronger than ever, playing better than they ever played before and writing some new very kick-ass tunes. For now they are working on new songs and want to achieve objective of a 10 song demo album (entitled “An Absconding Recluse”).

Throughout Behead The Dead’s life, as a band, they would like to distribute some songs around, get known at least nationally, get some endorsements to try stuff for free, or even get sponsored and the most obvious one of all: TOUR THE WORLD ! Keep checking back for their new songs as it won't be long untill they've got their 10 song demo album!

Written by KiteMedia Productions.

About Members:

Adam Kirchberger: (Drums)
Adam is a drummer who has a unique and inventive way of playing. He has included a very good use of dynamics in his drumming over the years. He is good with drum rolls and small drums fills in between riffs, he uses the double bass pedal frequently and his powerful rim shots add that extra spice to the sound of Behead The Dead.

Jeremy Pringsheim: (Guitars)
Jeremy is a skilful guitar player, who over the years has included many different techniques into his metal playing. He has a good and fast use of the classic metal down picking, he is good with the whammy bar, pinch harmonics, sweeps and all sorts of scales. His combination of melodic guitar playing with heavy and groovy riffs really defines our sound.

Matthew Jozsef: (Vocals)
Matthew has used a grindcore, death metal kind of growling mixed with normal singing in the beginning of Behead The Dead. Initially his screams were only orientated around the low growling notes. However Matthew has changed his style of screaming to suit the bands new style, as seen in their new song “Incense”. This new style of screaming has a wider range, his range usually moves around the mid tones. Matthew has learned to pitch his screams to either deep growling or shrill screaming from those mid tones. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Behead+the+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.