Behold the Grave is a band that rises from a combination of several influences as well as a wide musical heritage. It was created by Jorge Pretalia, Aarón Olivas and Tory Lopezfelix.
They decided to put their musical experience and skills into an ambitious project. Their goal was to build a sound out of satisfaction and the combination of each one of their musical perceptions, without enclosing themselves into any particular musical style or pattern. They simply let their composition flow from within.
In 2010, they beheld the grave of their former band ‘Earworm’. It was the end of a band and the beginning of a new journey. Right after Cesar Martinez (former singer) and Victor Muñoz (former bass player) left what used to be Earworm, Jorge, Aaron and Tory continued rehearsing and creating the first chords of a band that was taking form. 
In 2011 Abelardo Garza came into the project adding the vocal parts into their composition. That same year Tory came up with the name of the band ‘Behold the Grave’. They took the decision of leaving ‘Earworm’ behind and starting a new path. In spite of missing a very important element in the band (bass player) they got a couple of gigs. 
After working together for a while, Tory left the band for personal reasons almost right after David Martinez joined the band as official bass player. Then David’s brother Juan Martinez joined the band assuming the position of rhythm guitar. 
For the first time the band was complete and ready to rock on. That same year the band entered the studio to record an EP including 6 songs they previously wrote.
After a year of hard work Abelardo left the band for personal reasons leaving the band once more in a difficult situation. 
The band continued working slowly looking for someone who could assume the front man’s role. This empty spot in a band meant a serious and difficult challenge to take. 
On October 2012 Jonathan Gonzalez, Jorge’s former band-mate (Antiquarium), joined the band as the front man that the band desperately needed.
On March 2013 Tory returned to Behold the Grave right after Juan decided to leave the band. This time the band was one more time ready and complete. 
On April 2013 the band participated in the W.O.A annual Metal Battle Mexico and won the first place after defeating 40 bands from all over the country. The main goal of this contest is to provide a Mexican band with the opportunity of playing at the most important festival in the metal scene. This festival is called Wacken Open Air and it takes place in Germany.
The band is currently working on the material that will be part of their first album. They expect to release it in 2013 with the purpose of promoting their songs around the world.
Members/Miembros:
Tory Lopezfélix - Guitar
Aarón Olivas - Guitar
Dave Martínez - Bass
Jorge Pretalia - Drums
Jonathan Tapia - Vocals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Behold+The+Grave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.