In 2007 Belgarath (guitars and vocals) and The Clansman (drums) decide to renew the project, recording song in the facilities of Death Sentence (the death metal band that they are playing in at the time). They record the song "Mad and Alone". By 2009 they menage to create a concept for... the band, thanks to a few rehearsals and lots of alchohol.

Negthron (bass) joins the band in summer 2009. Right now Belgarath than just one project turned into band. Quantity of alchohol bottles increases, but the new songs increase as well. The band's first concert is in March 2010, in metal bar "Trash Zone".

Karharoth (vocals) joins the band about half an year after the concert.The band's first concert, with the new vocal, is in metal bar "Trash zone"(again). Exactly one year after the first concert.
A little after that Karharoth,not agreeing with the direction the band is going, leaves.

Belgarath and Negthron take up the vocals. In early 2013 the band began work on their first album "Wanderer". 
In January 2014 year “Wanderer” is a fact and on 27 January is its official concert-promotion in the Sofia club “8 Ball”, in which the band introduces their new vocal Purgatorius.

Soon after this concert Negthorn leaves the band, the live performances of the band are on hold until the end of 2014 year, when the bass in Belgarath is taken by Vomir.

After a few gigs in Sofia, in the spring of 2015, together with the Greek black metal band Human Serpent, Belgarath have their first tour by the motto “Nihilism upon Mankind Nalkan tour 2015”.

After the tour, Belgarath recorded The Sword especially for ‘Murder Sound Extreme Compilation 2’.

In the Spring of 2016 they are in a search for bass player once again, but Vomir was sent with farewell gig, named DEAD END. After a short preparation, Witcher becomes the new bass player of Belgarath. Their first gig together is the opening of the Sofia festival November’s Doom Days.

2017 is a dynamic year for Belgarath. It begins with gigs of the band in Bosna and Croatia, but during the Summer and Autumn there is a short break, while Purgatorius is abroad. The year finishes with the participation of Belgarath in the festival Autumn Souls of Sofia.

Despite that they don’t stop concert activity, 2018 is a year for rest, Belgarath’s members are busy with different family issues, but slowly and methodically they are preparing a material for their next album.

2019 is the year, in which the band Belgarath has reach their 10th anniversary. They have participated as a support band in two consecutive gigs, part of Balkan tour of the French black metal band End of Mankind in Sofia and in Thessaloniki.
After a short break, Belgarath took part as a guest in gig, which celebratеd the 10th anniversary of Bulgarian black metal band Serpentine Creation. During the summer, Belgarath recorded their album Requiem at MRDSound Studio.
In the autumn, the band appeared on the same stage with the Greek bands Diablery and Nihilism in Live and Loud Club in Sofia.
In the last Friday, the 13th, of 2019 Belgarath presented their last album Requiem in a farewell show at 3Ushi Club in Sofia.

And so, the time has come to close the book. There will be other days and other stories, but this tale is finished. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Belgarath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.