There are multiple artists with this name.

1: Raw Finnish black metal in the vein of Beherit and Sarcofago...

Line-up:
Purson / Aggressor (S.K.) - Drums, Vocals
Archseraph Chepera (L.P.) - Guitar, Vocals (Blasphemous Evil, ex-Blutrache (Fin), Gestapo 666, ex-Horna, Incriminated, ex-Kyprian's Circle, Mental Terror, ex-Pest (Fin), ex-Shatargat, ex-Skullkrusher (Fin), The True Werwolf, ex-Vomitfago, ex-Warloghe, session for Krieg, Armour)
Killhammer (T.R.) - Bass

Former members:
Venomous Pulputuous - Effects
SS Totenkopf Xul - Bass
Goatblood Lucifer Rex - Lead Guitar

Discography:
Death Slaughter (Demo, 2004)

2: A melodic/symphonic black metal band from The Netherlands formed in 2007.
March of 2007 is the time Beliar started to write dark, atmospheric, bombastic songs. 
The band then consisted of Mauro (vocals), Surtur (bass and backing vocals), Aethir (keyboards), Gnoom (drums), Vidar (guitar) and S. (guitar). 
After a year of playing shows and writing songs, in February of 2008 Mauro decided to leave the band and Surtur took over on the lead vocals. 
In September of that year, Beliar released their first demo-cd called “Echoes From The Past”. It was a 5 track demo and recorded on their own PC in the rehearsal room, which explains the mediocre quality. 
Beliar played a lot of shows since 2007, spread over the Netherlands but also in Switzerland, Poland, Belgium and Germany they conquered the stages. 
Now in 2009, Beliar made a tremendous musical growth and recorded a 4 track promo-cd at the Raff-records studio. It’ s a concept EP about a local Dutch legend called: “De Bokkenrijders”. Referring to a 18th century story about a time of robbery, blasphemy and fear. Songs became more black, melodic, symphonic, faster and more frightening. Beliar also had to honour of having Dark Fortress' vocalist Morean to do guest vocals on the song “Paled Flesh Mysterium”. 
During the recording sessions some musical problems appeared with Surtur and he decided to leave the band. In Waldtyr they found a new vocalist. 
Now Beliar is ready to let the fans meet with the Bokkenrijders story also live on stage! 
Beware of BELIAR! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beliar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.