Bell Biv DeVoe is a successful spin off group of New Edition that consisted of three previous members, Ricky Bell (also known as Slick), Michael Bivins (also known as Biv), and Ronnie DeVoe (also known as R.D.). Bell Biv DeVoe began to take shape in the late '80s, but not until completing the tour in support of Heart Break did the threesome decide to make the break from New Edition official. At the suggestion of producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, they chose to chart their own course.
Bell Biv Devoe's debut album Poison has a variety of producers, including Dr. Freeze and Spyderman, Wolf & Epic (Richard Wolf & Bret "Epic" Mazur), Guy's Timmy Gatling, and Public Enemy's Hank Shocklee and Keith Shocklee. As a result, Bell Biv DeVoe's first album "Poison" has a larger new jack swing composition as compared to New Edition releases. BBD was a pioneering group that was the first to successfully combine hip-hop with R&B & pop. The CD was released in 1990, and its title track became a #1 hit on the R&B chart. The singles that followed were "Do Me!", "B.B.D. (I Thought It Was Me)?", "When Will I See You Smile Again", and "Dope!" (the latter was retitled "She's Dope!" upon release due to the rising drug abuse among children). Poison sold over three million copies. The remix album WBBD-Bootcity! The Remixes, with the Wolf & Epic produced "Word To The Mutha!" as accompanying single, was released the next year and was certified gold.

Bell Biv Devoe sold in excess of 4 million albums, prompting performances on the 1990 American Music Awards and other such ceremonies.

Bivins took time off from recording to search for new talent and bring together the East Coast Family, discovering and producing debut albums for the groups for Another Bad Creation and Boyz II Men, and little known Sudden Impact. They had two name changes, first to Whytguys and then to The Outsiderz. Bell Biv DeVoe's second album, Hootie Mack, was released in 1993 and spawned the singles "Gangsta", "Above The Rim", "Something In Your Eyes" and "Show Me the Way".

In 1996, Bell, Bivins, and DeVoe participated in the reunion of New Edition and toured in support of the CD Home Again on the MCA record label. In 2001, Bell Biv DeVoe's third album, B.B.D., was released. This latest effort saw Bell Biv Devoe exploring a more, hardcore rap style/R&B approach. It received mixed reviews. "BBD" was marginally successful peaking at #62 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.

Ronnie DeVoe is now a real estate agent in the Atlanta, Georgia area but still remains with New Edition.[1] He is very passionate about nutrition, especially healthy eating, and is currently collaborating with the group Viking Pimps on their up-coming album.

In October 2008, Bell, Biv, and Devoe were on the radio with V103 (Atlanta) where they played a sneak peak at a new track entitled, "That Girl." Another sneak peak is also available for valentines day called "welcome to my heart." See link below.

In February 2009, Bell Biv Devoe dropped 2 new tracks on itunes. " Welcome to My Heart " and " You ". They are working on a new album. 

In June 2009, Bell Biv Devoe performed with Ne-Yo at the 2009 BET Awards. Visit http://www.myspace.com/officialbellbivdevoe their official MySpace.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bell+Biv+DeVoe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.