There is more than one artist with this name:

(1) Belle, formerly Belle Noir, is a four-piece rock band from Colorado consisting of Joey Lancaster (Vocals/Guitar), Roman Gonzalez (Drums/Vocals), Matt Coate (Bass/Vocals), and Rob Verosko (Guitar). They list their influences as Dredg, Circa Survive, Balance And Composure, The Appleseed Cast, O'Brother, As Cities Burn, and Moving Mountains.

(2) "Belle" Born "Anna Akopova" is a singer, song writer, lyricist extraordinaire and was born on the 6th of April, 1985 in Moscow, Russia in the family of a musician and linguist( father ) and an English teacher ( mother ). As a child "Belle" Showed a keen interest in music. Belle spent 8 years in music school learning to play the piano and became a vocalist singing solos and ensembles in multiple concerts. Belle continued studying vocals when she entered a Music College at the age of 16.

She spent more then 4 years mastering her vocals and piano techniques. In college she fell in love with R&B, Soul, Blues and Funk. After listening to major artists such as Alicia Keys, Sade, Seal, Mariah Carey and Destinys Child she took her love for music to a higher level. After becoming a professional vocalist and musician, Belle continued her studies, taking private lessons with a famous vocal teacher Seth Riggs ( a world known vocal teacher who taught Michael Jackson for 32 years as well as Stevie Wonder, JLO etc.) in Los Angeles and then with Barbara Amo, vocal teacher at the Institute of Contemporary Music Performance in London. Apart from music college, Belle spent 1 year at the Russian Academy of Drama Art as a student of the Acting Department.

(3) Belle (竜とそばかすの姫, Ryū to Sobakasu no Hime) is a 2021 Japanese animated sci-fi film written and directed by Mamoru Hosoda, with inspirations from Beauty and the Beast, that takes the story of Suzu, a young country girl as she realizes her true talent for singing through "U", a virtual world. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Belle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.