There are two artists on last.fm with this name:

1. Belly, an alternative rock band from Rhode Island which formed in 1991.

2. Belly/Rebellyus, a rapper from Ottawa, Canada

(1) An alternative rock band active from 1991 to 1996 which reunited in 2016. Belly was formed in 1991 by former Throwing Muses members Tanya Donelly (also in The Breeders with Kim Deal) and Fred Abong. Based in Boston, Massachusetts (although all of the members were from Newport, Rhode Island), the band consisted of Donelly on lead vocals, Abong on bass, Tom Gorman on guitar, and Chris Gorman on drums.

Although formed in Rhode Island, the band has long been associated with the Boston music scene. In 1993, they scored an alternative hit with the single “Feed the Tree”. Their debut album, Star, reached #2 on the UK albums chart, with its 1995 follow-up, King, reaching #6. Their third album, Dove, was released in May 4th 2018.

(2) Belly (Rebellyus) is a rapper and hip-hop artist from Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, with origins in Palestine. He is a practicing Muslim. Born in Jenin, Palestine, his musical career has been based in the Ottawa, Ontario. In addition to a Juno, he has won two MuchMusic Video Awards and has twice attained a top chart position in the national Much Music Countdown. His stage name of Belly/Rebellyus was derived from the term “rebellious”.

He first appeared on Massari’s third single “Rush the Floor”, and his first solo single “Pressure” featuring Ginuwine premiered in January 2007.

His debut album, The Revolution, was released on June 5, 2007. This double disc album was divided into two sections: “The People” and “The System”. “The People” contained more in-depth songs, such as “History of Violence” (produced by Whosane?), “Follow Me”, and “Revolutionary”, where he challenges his listeners to discover the facts regarding the Middle-East situation. Other songs on this disc include “People Change” (produced by Whosane?), “Leave me Alone”, where he talks about his longtime friends and the memories that he kept from them. “The System” contained his hit singles “Don’t Be Shy”, “Ridin’”, and “Pressure”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Belly">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.