There are multiple artists using this name.

1) A Swedish hip-hop artist
2) A New York-based electronic musician and singer-songwriter who uses the name Olga Bell for her music.

1)
 BELL, real name Bell Mothander, is a Swedish Hip-Hop artist who rose to fame via TikTok. Her viral verse on TikTok then became the hit song "Missförstått" which gained over two million listeners in ten days and took over the top spot on Spotify's Top 50 list in Sweden.

2)
 BELL is the performing moniker of New York-based Born in Moscow and raised in Alaska, Bell began playing the piano at age 7. As a classical pianist she performed with the Anchorage Symphony and was a fellow of the Aspen Music Festival, the Banff Centre, and Yale's Norfolk chamber music program. In 2005 Bell graduated from the New England Conservatory, moved to New York, bought an Apple computer and began chopping beats and writing songs using GarageBand. 

In 2008 BELL recorded, produced and self-released a 6-track EP that earned accolades from Spin, Gorilla vs. Bear and Stereogum. With drummers Gunnar Olsen and Jason Nazary, Bell toured nationally in 2009, playing Brooklyn Vegan's SXSW showcase and releasing a vinyl single ("Magic Tape") on TwoSyllable Records. Later that year Olga was described by the New York Times as a "powerful advocate" following the premiere of three songs for voice, electronics and chamber ensemble that were co-written with composer Jeremy Flower and performed at Carnegie Hall. 

BELL's debut full-length "Diamonite" was self-released on May 31, 2011. It was recorded and produced primarily by Olga Bell and Gunnar Olsen in Brooklyn. Bell partnered with digital artist Zach Lieberman in August 2011 and created a video for single "Chase No Face" in which an LED projector, hacked Kinect and openFrameworks code create musically expressive light masks that respond to movement and volume in real-time. 

Bell's sound resembles fellow northerner Björk, as well as Feist, and Radiohead. 
***
Power Electronics / Harsh Noise band from India (2017 - present)
Little is known about this project beyond the fact that it is a one-man power electronics / harsh noise project from India, thus far, releasing their debut LP, 'Secrets from a Distant Star' on Cyclopean Eye Productions. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.