1.
Belle Gunness; the dubbed "Surfcore" metal band hailing from Richmond, Virginia offers a new sound that promises to be like no other. Their influences range from hardcore such as ‘The Plot in You’, to deathcore such as ‘And Hell Followed With’, and everything between. With heavy vocals, heavy yet fast Guitar and Bass, and Drums of everything from a 2-Step to a brutal breakdown, Belle Gunness offers everything you would want from a band. 

Belle Gunness was formed by dual vocalists Davis and Andrew, who decided they wanted to bring something new to the metal scene in their home town. They both knew friends with talent on the instruments needed, so they brought it all together in to one of the ex members garage. After a while, they made a transition to the now permanent drummer of the band. Within their first day with the new drummer, they finished their first original song, ‘Optimistic Dreams’. 

After a few months, vocalist Andrew and original drummer Ethan left on mutual, good terms, and then the band is in search of a 2nd guitarist. After many attempts, Belle Gunness has found who they believe to be their best choice. The Belle Gunness line up is stronger than ever, and down to do whatever it takes. 

Belle Gunness is in the process of writing new songs, recording an EP, and coming out with shirts. All will be done in due time. We are hoping to get on a good label as soon as possible! Belle Gunness has a lot of great shows for the rest of the year, with acts from Oceano to ABACABB (their last show) and many many great local smaller show. Come out to one and have some fun!

They have changed their name to Immoralist in 2012.

2.
Belle Gunness is an all-female death/ thrash metalband from the Netherlands. The band is named after a famous female serial killer from Norway. Belle Gunness was founded summer 2004 by guitarists Petra (who also plays in SoulreaveR) and Marjolein and the first drummer. Anita, who played bass and did backing vocals for the Dutch thrash metal act Izegrim, joined to become the band's vocalist. When things didn't work out with the first drummer, another girl took her seat behind the drum kit. Shortly thereafter bassist Martine, who also plays in Deleterious, made the band complete. However, the band got dissatisfied with the drummer and went looking for another one. In October 2006 Gerdien joined. Belle Gunness has recorded two songs for promotional purposes in July 2006, which can be downloaded from the band's Myspace page. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Belle+Gunness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.