Béla Gábor, p/k/a Belocca is a rough diamond gradually polishing each facet. He grew up close to Budapest, together with Workidz, with whom he soon discovered electronic music. At the age of 16 they signed with Secret Service Records for their first single and soon found themselves in a studio in Cologne Germany. The time spent there, the experience and the musical inspiration have significantly influenced his sound. Shortly after they founded Sauna Records, with their track “Plastic Fantastic” topping many charts at the time. Because Belocca tackles the essence of house music and the groove, his tracks and remixes have become favorites with many big DJ’s over the past years, like: Mark Knight, Roger Sanchez, Umek, Sven Vãth, Luciano, just to name a few….

The name Belocca wasn’t born until 2000, when he began working together with his friends: Soneec, Lauer & Canard and Muzzaik, producing many great tracks. The big breakthrough came in 2007 with Belocca’s remix on “The Nightcrawlers – Push The Feeling On”, which was picked up by no other then Roger Sanchez and released through Stealth Records. It hit the #1 spot on the Beatport Chart and was one of the biggest compiling dance records of that year. In 2009, Beatport even elected him one of the most promising new House artist!

During his career Belocca has released many tracks and remixes through: Toolroom, Yoshitoshi, Stealth Records, Spinnin’, Purple Music, Star 69, Peppermint Jam, Nervous, Stereo, Sneakerz Muzik, Black Hole, Kontor and Big Love. Aside from being an amazing producer, Belocca is also a fantastic DJ. His music and DJ skills have gradually landed him an international DJ career playing big clubs and festivals all over the world. From Miami to Ibiza, from Amsterdam to London, from Germany to motherland Hungary, Belocca has carved his signature groove in many musical hearts. Furthermore, in 2011, alongside his friend Soneec, he was asked to mix an edition of the infamous “Leaders Of The New School” compilation series for Toolroom Records.

Feel like grabbing the true sound of Belocca? Check out his monthly mix tapes on Soundcloud. You can also catch Belocca on his bi-weekly radio show on Radio Face Hungary . With a very successful 2011 in the pocket, 2012 will see the launch of his own record label and many more great DJ sets and tracks! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Belocca">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.