There are 6 bands with this name: 

1) Beltaine - 90s post hardcore/rock from Rhode Island.
2) Beltaine Celtic Group is one of the new Polish bands playing celtic folk. 
3) Czech Beltaine's music is based on a combination of doom and death metal with pagan elements and touches of folklore.
4) There is also another Polish band called Beltaine. They are from Warsaw and play  dreamy, gloomy rock/folk similar to Dead Can Dance or Deep Forest.
5) Another folk project, headed by Omnia's Jenny.
6) A young band of British musicians who released a beautiful album of 5 songs called "Half Way". 

1)Beltaine - post hardcore/rock from Rhode Island. In the summer of 1993, James Quigley, along with friends Way O'Malley and Henry Evans began creating music together. Through word of mouth, they found drummer Sean Gilchrist and guitarist Paul Vieira who had been playing together for years. Practicing for hours in a small barn out in Charlestown, Rhode Island the five members wrote songs quickly and easily. In just a few months they were recording their four song cassette demo at Sampson Studios in Tiverton, RI with engineer Keith Souza (now owner of Machines With Magnets in Pawtucket, RI). Numerous local shows followed. The band recorded more songs for a 3 song vinyl EP that eventually came out on Watermark records, though you would be hard pressed to actually find any anywhere! Later in '94 after a show at Club Babyhead, Henry was asked to leave due to "musical differences" and the band drafted in Shawn St. Martin who, despite playing some guitar, had never played bass before. More practicing and writing of songs followed with a recording for a full length album/demo for Columbia Records. Unsatisfied with the end result, the band decided not to release it and resumed recording other songs at Sampson. A 2 song vinyl EP and five song cassette were released on the Atomic Action label from Middletown, RI. Way decided to leave Beltaine in the early summer of '96. Deciding to continue as a four piece, the band sounded more focused and powerful and went on to record their full length cd for Atomic Action, titled Crowning The Caged Kid. In the next year waiting for the cd's release, Beltaine would play some incredible live shows with bands such as Jawbox, Bluetip, the Warmers, Kerosene 454 and others. Drummer Sean Gilchrist did a short stint drumming for Dischord recording artists Bluetip on their Feb/March '97 tour. Sean left Beltaine in November '97 and now plays in the studio/live for songwriter Leah Carlson. The remaining members found a new drummer and continued on for over a year as Woken By Wire, releasing an excellent 10" EP on Corleone Records. Guitarist Paul Vieira now plays in The Chinese Stars. Recordings: Self released 4 song cassette EP Structure 3 song vinyl EP (Watermark Records) 1994 Rototillthesky 2 song vinyl EP (Atomic Action) 1996 Misguided 5 song cassette EP (Atomic Action) 1997 Crowning The Caged Kid full length cd(Atomic Action) 1997

2) Beltaine Celtic Group is one of the new Polish bands playing celtic folk. 

Polish Beltaine group consist of five young men playing traditional Irish, Breton or even Jewish music as well as their own songs.

Polish Beltaine has relased two records so far - first one called "Rockhill" received a very warm welcome among the folk-fans in Poland. Second one is called "KONCENtRAD". Both records won an online contest for best folk album of the year in Poland. The band's sound is "powerful and energetic" and they have a very unique contact with the audience during their concerts - that makes them "a lifetime experience". Official homepage: www.beltaine.pl. Visit also their profile at myspace.

Beltaine are: Adam Romański: violin, keyboards; Grzegorz Chudy: whistle, vocal, bansuri, accordion; Jan Gałczewski: mandolina, bouzoki, bodhran, electric guitar, gaita bagpipes; Jan Kubek: tabla, darabuka, djembe, cajon, other percussion; Łukasz Kulesza: acoustic guitar; Bartek Dudek: bass guitar; Mateusz Sopata: drums.

3) Czech Beltaine's music is based on a combination of doom and death metal with pagan elements and touches of folklore. Their music doesn't also deny the roots in the classical metal and rock feeling. That's all covered in a modern sound with deep charismatic vocal and growling on the top of it. They formed in 1996, and released one record so far - the highly acclaimed "Bohemian Winter" in 2003. Their lyrics are about Bohemian mythology, paganism and are nature-inspired. Their official web : http://www.beltaine.net

4) There is also another Polish band called Beltaine. They are from Warsaw and play  dreamy, gloomy rock/folk similar to Dead Can Dance or Deep Forest. Members of the band:
 
Sebastian Madejski - vocals
Paweł Drygiel - guitar (and other instruments)
Michał Pietrusiewicz - bass guitar (and other instruments)
Daniel Paulinek - synthesisers, drums, vocals

5) Another folk project, headed by Omnia's Jenny. They had only one CD release, 'Celtic Harp' in 2001, which is sold out. Currently there are no plans for a rerelease or to continue this project. The music this project makes is centered around harp music, playing mostly traditional songs.

6)  A young band of British musicians who released a beautiful album of 5 songs called "Half Way".  They may have never made the whole distance.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beltaine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.