Long ago, two prisoners escaped from neighboring facilities around the same time and in the same underground fashion. Fate allowed them to tunnel right into each other, which gave them quite a start. After sharing a good laugh, they bid each other adieu and continued digging their own tunnels in their own way, quite alone. Time passed, and once again their pick axes crossed. After another good laugh, the two suddenly realized that they could make more progress and build better passages if they had a go of it together, and that's what they did, happily ever after. So it was with Ben + Vesper, two art school musicians who, for years toiled away side by side on countless projects and side projects. Eventually, they thought it wiser to sing the same songs and play the same chords at the same time on the same stage together. They sent a demo off to Daniel Smith, and he heartily agreed. A few months later (January 2006 to be exact), they were crammed in the New Jerusalem Rec Room recording their debut 13 song album for Sounds Familyre. Ladies and Gents, we now introduce All This Could Kill You!

Take this sound. With it, Ben + Vesper are extending their hands to you in friendship. Their invitation is sung and played on instruments big and small. It is personal and impartial. The lights can be on or off. In the a.m. or twilight hours. You can be doing the dishes or lying on the couch or talking on your cell on the train in a tunnel. It will find you in your joy and in your failures. It will ask of you what you would ask of yourself if you were in the asking mood. It will put you to asking. It will come along side of you and keep you calm in a potentially explosive situation. It will make chaos seem doable, and normalcy an anomaly that isn't so much desired as tolerated. There are thirteen songs, all lucky and hummable in a field with no water and a full harvest ahead. There are eight laborers who will be working along side you, all happy and all business (Daniel, David and Elin Smith, Sufjan Stevens, Chris Weisman, Josh Stamper, and Ben and Vesper). These are not fair-weather friends. They will sit at your table and sup with you in your weary, grumpy mood. They will warm your tepid lungs with laughter and top off your drink when you're not looking. They are your TFF-True Friends Forever! Consider yourself invited. Respondez Vous S'il Vous Plait! :)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ben+%252B+Vesper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.