There are two artists named Ben Frost;

1) Ben Frost (born 1980) is an Australian composer and producer. He is based in Reykjavík, Iceland. Frost composes minimalist, instrumental and experimental music, with influences ranging from classical minimalism to punk rock and black metal.

His albums include: Steel Wound (2003), School of Emotional Engineering (as part of the band School of Emotional Engineering) (2004), Theory of Machines (2007), By The Throat (2009), Sólaris (with Daníel Bjarnason) (2011), Aurora (2014), and The Centre Cannot Hold (2017). He has collaborated with contemporary dance companies Chunky Move, the Icelandic Dance Company and the British choreographer Wayne McGregor. He composed the music for Wayne McGregor's 2010 work FAR.

Frost co-composed with Daníel Bjarnason, Music for Solaris, which was inspired by both Stanislaw Lem's original novel and the 1972 Tarkovsky film Solaris. Commissioned by Unsound Festival, it was performed by Frost, Bjarnason and Sinfonietta Cracovia. He composed the music for the films, Sleeping Beauty, the Icelandic drama The Deep and the 2015 British television series Fortitude. In 2012 he travelled to the Democratic Republic of Congo with Richard Mosse, along with Trevor Tweeten and John Holten, to score the sound for Mosse's artwork The Enclave.

In 2013, in his first directorial role, he premiered a critically acclaimed music-theatre adaptation of the Iain Banks novel The Wasp Factory.

In 2015, Frost provided the score for Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege alongside Paul Haslinger.

In 2017, he provided the score for Netflix's German supernatural thriller Dark and the film Super Dark Times. He also premiered a new installation with Richard Mosse and Trevor Tweeten, entitled Incoming, at the Barbican Centre in London which is currently touring worldwide.

In 2019 Ben scored the second series of Dark. 

2) BEN FROST - 23 - UK - DUBSTEP/ROCK/ELECTRONICA

Record producer Ben Frost born in Brazil and UK resident has been creating music since the age of 13. His early collaborations featured live sets that were crafted using guitar pro. He grew up in rural rutland and first wrote songs with Michael Andrews, a Mathematician, most works were never finished after his hard disk broke in 2006. The band, 'Belladonna' later split up as the members(Tom Longworth, Ed 'Rufio lost' hoare, Ben Jeffes and bassist, Andy Wilson went their seperate ways. Their most popular works included, 'Down by the lake', 'Dreaming For Insomnia' and 'Pass Away'. Ben still performs some of his earliest music at his acoustic performances, which have been held across the UK, including a set at Riverside Festival, Stamford.

After 'Belladonna's break up, Ben worked on a short side project, in his home studio. He works with a range of genres from acoustic, live performances to industrial rock and Dubstep. He works closely with James Whyman (Hot Flux) and produces his music using logic.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ben+Frost">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.