Benedictum is a US female-fronted heavy metal band which released its 1st album in 2006.

Following in the footsteps of such legendary bands as Warrior, Rough Cutt and Psychotic Waltz, BENEDICTUM are San Diego, California’s latest and mightiest ambassadors to the world of heavy metal.

Conjuring the power and mystique of early Rainbow and classic Savatage yet forging a sound that is uniquely their own, BENEDICTUM’s stylish, epic brand of metal delivers on all fronts: Awesome riffing, fierce rhythms, strong melodies, shredding leads and delicate textures converge at the crossroads of tradition and 21st century innovation topped off by what is truly one of the most extraordinary voices in metal, courtesy of Veronica Freeman, whose pipes have to be heard to be believed.

BENEDICTUM came to the attention of Dio guitarist Craig Goldy who was impressed enough with what he heard that he turned the group on to long-time friend and former band mate, Jeff Pilson (ex-Dokken, Dio). Equally blown away by the bands raw talent and untapped potential, Pilson took on the role of producer and recorded BENEDICTUM at his Los Angeles area studio, with ZuZu Recording production partner, former Warlock bassist Tommy Henriksen, sharing mixing duties.

The result of this collaboration was the incredible debut CD “UNCREATION”. Selected by Classic Rock magazine UK as one of the top bands to watch in 2006 and now selected by Rock Hard Germany and Classic Rock UK as one of the top 50 albums of 2006, BENEDICTUM are laying it down in a big way!  After coming off of a successful tour with the legendary Doro Pesch, BENEDICTUM followed up with "Seasons Of Tragedy" produced by Jeff Pilson.

Brand new CD "Dominion" was released March 8th,2011 on Frontier Records.
The song "Bang" featured Rudy Sarzo on Bass

Performers:

VERONICA "THE V" FREEMAN  – VOCALS
PETE WELLS  – GUITAR
CHRIS SHRUM  – BASS
MIKEY PANNONE  – DRUMS
TONY DIAZ –  KEYS <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Benedictum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.