Bereavement is a Perth (Western Australia) Melodic Black Metal band.

Bereavement began in the winter of 2006 with S. Terlich's vision of spawning a black metal band; recruiting Eblis on guitars and Tyrant on drums. The band went through a number of bass players who attended rehearsals but unfortunately none of them really suited what Bereavement were looking for.

Draugan (bass) also joined the band for a number of months, but however left to pursue his other bands and interests.

In mid February 2008 Tyrant's time in Bereavement came to an end.

By winter 2008 however the band had finally got a full time lineup, all permaneant members; welcoming Helvetian (bass) and Sombre (drums) to the Bereavement ranks.

Soon after, Bereavement agreed to do a CD split with NSW-based black metal band Fen Hollen, however Fen Hollen ceased to exist toward the end of 2008 and the proposed split did not take place.

In March 2009, Helvetian left the band to pursue his studies, however his legacy and time with the band would not be forgotten as he played several live gigs with the band including one on the other side of the country in NSW, and recorded bass parts for Bereavement's second release - the Imperial Hordes MCD.

Bereavement reference a number of bands as influential to their playing style, including Abigor, Emperor (early), Judas Iscariot, Mayhem, Satanic Warmaster and Shining.

There are three other bands named Bereavement:

1) Bereavement is a Pennsylvania, USA based band that plays dark melodic death metal.
www.myspace.com/bereavementmetal www.bereavementmetal.com. they released the advent of loss in 2007, and have a release slated for 2010. they are currently recording new material. 
2) Bereavement is a Japan based band that plays doom in the vein of old Katatonia 
3) Bereavement is also a Doom Metal band from Hong Kong – http://www.myspace.com/bereavementhk
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bereavement">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.