There are multiple artists with this name. However, the name Berserk is sometimes misunderstood as soundtrack by Susumu Hirasawa, who is the true artist. The misunderstanding involving the bands and the soundtrack could be avoided if the Berserk OST listeners change their tags to 平沢進.

1) Berserk is a black metal band from Spain originating in 1998. The founding members were Forjstorm (guitar), LordMonk (bass), Frozen Wind (drums) and Gog (vocals and guitar).

Some months later, in November 1998, a new member joined, Obitus (synthesizers).
In December of 1999, they recorded their first demo called "Return of The Ancient Laws". In June 2000, Gog was expeled, then Nazak joined them as new vocalist.
On summer 2000, they begun the recording of their second work (First CD) "...From the Celtiberian Woods", that was released by Oaken Shield (France), subdivision of Adipocere Records. In July 2002, Berserk recorded the second album called "Rites of Supremacy" in the Artica Studios in Ciudad Real. Obitus left the band in October of this year.

Oaken Shield and Adipocere Rec. released the new CD of Berserk in July 2003.
In November 2004, Battlelord Prod. releases a live album called "Live from the Woods"
recorded in Bilbao (Spain), February 2004 and limited to 1000 copies.
Adipocere Rec. re-releases the old demo of the band in the CD
"Return of the Ancient Laws" with extra live tracks.

A new change in the line-up of Berserk since August 2005: Träg joined as the new drummer, and Frozen Wind moves to play guitar. The band entered Artica Studios in December 2005 to record the third album "Cries of Blood and Hate". Børge Finstad mixed the CD at Toproom Studios (Borknagar, Mayhem, Arcturus, Vintersorg...) in Norway. Unexploded Records has released the new album in November 2006.

Current lineup:
Forjstorm (guitars),
LordMonk (bass),
Frozen Wind (guitars),
Nazak (vocals)
Träg (drums).

2) Berserk is a three piece indie rock band from Baltimore.

BERSERK discography:
Gonna Save The World From Danger cass. 1989 Beef Platter
"Giant Robots" / "When I Think" 7" 1991 Merkin
Berserk CD 1994 Go-Kart 

Once upon a time, there was a band known as Berserk.  The trio's music was punky and poppy and full of the frantic rock headrush typified by the band's name.  It made a great many music fans very, very happy.  Berserk played a lot and made one really cool CD, but then, a few years ago, the plucky group broke up.  Now former frontman Brent Malkus is back in town for a visit, so he and the other former Berserkers -David Cawley and Skizz Cyzyk - decided to reunite for one special night for one special show that also features Dirty Sanchez and Garage Sale.  And we all lived happily ever after...  10 P.M., the Ottobar.  (Lee Gardner)

3) Berserk is an Italian Crust Punk band.

4) Berserk was a Black Metal band from Belgium formed 1991 released a demo 1993 entitled  "War Metal"

5) Berserk is a thrash metal band from the El Salvador bay area.

6) BERSERK is a melodic hardcore band from Uberlândia, Brazil.

7) Berserk is a harsh noise artist from Taipei, Taiwan. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Berserk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.