The haunting, martial and almost primeval beat that begins BerserkerfoX’s first cut from their debut record, "History.Altar.Ashes" intertwines with a guitar melody that rises like smoke before a stone-like riff plummets sharply, with malicious intent as a snarl rips through one’s skull like a chainsaw – it is this forward-thinking mentality that has won them legions of dedicated fans not only in their home town of Melbourne, Australia, but acclaim from critics and punters alike from all over the country and the world.

666metal.com in the US called their songs “A fiery masala of raucous and catchy melodic death metal licks.” Leading Australian metal webzine Metal As Fuck.net spruiked them as "a future big name within the Australian metal scene” with fellow Aussies at the Metal Forge.com declaring their melodic prowess and thrashy power a “winning combination.” The glowing reports are a product of their workmanlike approach to their craft. As a testament to their never-say-die attitude, they were signed to Ovis Records in late 2009, an independent label based in Norway with a penchant for underground music. The FoX have released two EPs and an album, all the while manning their own merchandise desks at their many gigs, meticulously recording and producing their debut record in amongst traveling all over Melbourne to play to enraptured which bang their heads with glee at their all-devouring approach to metal – a pinch of the classic sound melded with the blunt-edge force of modern death and thrash metal – a crowd pleasing amalgamation if there ever was one. 

Topped off with live performances that metalheads drive hours to see, BerserkerfoX are indeed one of the premier death metal bands to be seen emerging out of Down Under for a very long time.

More information can be found at http://www.berserkerfox.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/BerserkerfoX">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.