Roots of Bestia lie somewhere in the end of 90-ties, when Andres, who was already member of two metal bands, decided to form his own death/black metal side project with serious attitude and ambitious plans. The beginning was hard, but few rehearsals took place with different people, unfortunately there wasn't that "right" feeling about it.

FIRST ERA

All changed when Andres got message from young drummer, also called Andres. First rehearsals with him happened in February 2000 and this can be considered as founding time for Bestia. Soon other bandmembers were recruited (Tarmo - vocals, Reivo - bass) and in the autumn band was invited to play its first real gig.

After some lineup changes sees light Bestia's first official "Demo 2001". Despite to raw sound it gets surprisingly warm welcome from local scene and even from foreign underground zines and labels.

Lineup changes continue and bands ideological side gets more influenced by pagan/heathen themes. In 2004 was released debut album "Hallutsinatsioon", what was made available for wider audience by Perverted Taste Records (GER) in 2005. After this event Bestia performs it's first foreign gigs (in Lithuania and Finland).

Due to a different reasons Bestia parted ways with former singer in 2006, also drummer and second guitarist leave band in the beginning of 2007. Despite this fact, Andres continues songwriting for a new album. Beginning of silent period - Bestia disappears from public view for some time.

SECOND ERA

New era in Bestia began, when Kaval Ants (guitar) joined crew in autumn of 2007. At that time new songs were ready for next album and in last days of year drum tracks were recorded with kind help of Thonolan (Urt, Realm of Carnivora, Sõjaruun etc.).

Between the recording sessions was performed one gig with smallest lineup ever (Andres, Reivo, Kaval Ants).

V.Arckharum (vocals) and Rain (drums) join Bestia in autumn of 2008. Fresh blood gave real boost to bands activity, pretty soon followed live performances, this time with full lineup.

Bestia's music in nowadays is raw but epic pagan black metal with some elements of folk, thrash and death metal. Aggressive and melancholic parts are mixed together with tempo varying from slow to chainsaw-speed blasts. Lyrics can be described as dark poetry, inspired by ancient times, folklore, mythology and nordic nature. All songs are written and performed in Estonian language.

Bestia is an active live band with aggressive show, they have played together with most of Estonian metal bands (too many to mention) and several foreign acts (Shining, Primordial, Nargaroth, Nokturnal Mortum, Arkona (Rus), Deströyer 666, Enochian Crescent, Skyforger, Archgoat etc.).

Bestia's second album was finished in the beginning of 2009 and it is released in different forms on four labels (Hexenreich, Evil Distibution, Roots Active Productions, Depressive Illusions Records).

2010 was anniversary year for Bestia, band records two gigs at club Tapper for DVD "Kümme surmatalve" (Ten Deadly Winters). DVD contains two parts: first part includes mentioned gigs at Tapper and in second part are selected videomaterials from earlier gigs. 

Last update: May 2011  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bestia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.