BESTIAL ATROCITY was formed in 1991 and after some gigs and festivals split up on 1994. The band recorded only unofficial rehearsals for promote to their friends, but that recordings are the only way for listen their music. 

In 2001, after a lot of letters and mails, Vampiria Records released a demo tape called "Cultum Lucifierianum" with a live side recorded in 1992 and a rehearsal recorded in 1993. In november 2005, Baron Von Causatan, the only former member, searching for new members and called Cadaver (guitars), Tumor (drums) and R. Dekapitator (bass). They start new rehearsals and then now in february 25th BESTIAL ATROCITY will back to gigs and festivals. 

BESTIAL ATROCITY plays Satanic Black Death Metal totally violent, raw and brutal into old school influencies. In september 2006, the newest CD-demo was release, called "B.A.C.K. (Bestial Atrocity Creating Kaos)" with eight live songs. 

After a lot of gigs on 2006, the band entered on RTA Studios and recorded all songs played and rehearsal until that moment, some songs are available on "Odes To Satan" CD-demo released through Vampiria Records on march 2007. 

The band played a lot of gigs into 2007, including an opening act for WATAIN (during their Brazilian tour with Obituary and Sadus - this date was only Watain and other Brazilian bands). 

Bestial Atrocity now signs with Infernal Kaos Productions to release their first album on july 2008. Wait to the complete destruction in music's format!! Some songs recorded on november 2006 will release now in a split-CDr with other Brazilian band called SARDONIC IMPIOUS, with more 5 acts of heresy and hate against the christianity. 

In this meantime, "Odes To Satan" will release in Peru through Explosion Cerebral Prod. and in South Korea through Infernal Kaos Productions (with new layout and 3 bonus tracks).

DISCOGRAPHY: 
Brutal Death Comp. (Brain Mutilation Records 1993) Germany/Brazil 
Cultum Luciferianum (Vampiria Records 2001) Brasil 
B.A.C.K. (Bestial Atrocity Creating Kaos) (Vampiria Records 2006) Brazil 
Odes To Satan (Vampiria Records 2007) Brazil <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bestial+Atrocity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.