Beto Vázquez Infinity is an Argentine metal band from Buenos Aires, formed in 2000.

The Argentinean bass player and songwriter Beto Vazquez continued enlarging his musical horizons, always accumulating new ideas, and with the hope of finally making a group of musicians that could fulfill and understand what he really wanted to transmit. This new creative stage in Beto's career uses very varied compositions in what refers to styles. In September of 1999, he finished to compose what would be a demo, which was listened by the record label Nems Enterprises, who immediately offered him a record deal. Vazquez would have the hard task now of finding musicians that were adjusted to the high standards that the project demanded. The company also suggested him that the album could be sang in English by voices of international fame, making it easy for the album to be released worldwide. Without a doubt, a great challenge for an Argentinean musician; difficult but not impossible.All the songs were created by Beto Vazquez and performed by the band. This way, in charge of the songwriting, the musical direction, the arrangements; and playing four & five strings bass, acoustic and electric, acoustic and electric guitar, Vazquez was able to expand his potential as a musician and give shape to a new project based on his personal music favorites (Pink Floyd, Rhapsody, Helloween, Skyclad, Porcupine Tree, Moonspell, Blackmore's Night, In Flames, etc). On the first album the guests were: Tarja Turunen (ex Nightwish), Candice Night (Blackmore's Night), Sabine Edelsbacher (Edenbridge) and Fabio Lione (Rhapsody).

In April, 2002 the tour producer José Luis Botto poposed Beto to take the band on tour and play in Spain, in a fest where bands such as Barón Rojo, Shaman, Ángeles del Infierno and Dark Moor among others would take part. Therefore, the band travelled to Spain and gave their first international show there. Beto Vazquez Infinity played as support with bands like: Nightwish, Labyrinth, Vision Divine, Angra, Tierra Santa and others.

In 2003 and 2004 composed other full CD of the band, called "Space Without Limits", on which participated artists like: Liv Kristine (Leaves Eyes), Floor Jansen (After Forever), Elisa Martin (Dreamaker), Arjen Lucassen (Ayreon), Juha-Pekka Leppäluoto (Charon), Walter Giardino (Rata Blanca) among others. Unfortunally, the album is still delayed by the record Nems Enterprises (arg) by mix troubles and they are working to edit it. Nems Enterprises is the only who can release "Space Without Limits". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Beto+Vazquez+Infinity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.