Beto Cohen was born in Mexico, 1976, the son of actress and singer Malu Galan, he was destined to be involved in a creative environment. He started to play guitar and Drums in bands from the age of 12 and by the time he was 20 he had set up his own studio, production company and a modelling agency, "DAMDARA", in Guadalajara, Mexico. He immediately immersed himself in the Dance music scene writing, producing and remixing, as well as joining forces with Dubaholics, Kobe, Dino Lenny, Meck and many more collaborators. He has recently been remixing for the likes of Allure, The Energies, Feeder, Cassius Henry and Judge Jules as well as writing and recently had his track "Run" coproduced with Dino used on the hit US TV series CSI. In 2007 Betoko joins the roster of Wow! Records, a new label from Club Amnesia Ibiza Resident DJ Mar-T, and releases Destination EP ("Xuplak" and "Someday") in two parts. Part 1 includes a a remix of "Xuplak" by Great stuff regular and one of Germany's top Dj's Karotte produced with Gregor Tresher, who was recently voted producer of the year by Raveline Magazine. Their remix of "Xuplak" has been included in the "Love family park" compilation 2007, one of the bigest and most important festivals in Germany. The compilation includes tracks by Ricardo Villalobos, Magda, Plastikman, Tiefschwarz, Gabriel Ananda, Sven Vath, Luciano, to name a few... Part 2 of the EP contains 2 remixes of "Someday" one by Mar-T and another by F-Comunication regular Llorca. "Someday" has been included in the Amnesia Underground 7 compilation, mixed by Mar-T and Tobi Neumann. Other artists in the Wow! roster are Toni Varga, Ivan Escura, Oliver and Les Schmitz, Valentino Kansyany, Paco Osuna and Mar-T himself. 2007 is a very busy year for Betoko, new tracks and remixes will be ready bythe end of the summer and even an album in on it's way... 

 http://www.myspace.com/betoko <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Betoko">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.