In 2002, guitarist Gavin Marchbank (17) and drummer Craig McGregor (16) formed their first band with their best friend and bassist André Scholtz (17). They recruited a good friend, Dean Moreau (16), to accompany Gavin as a second guitarist and began working on music right away. With only a garage and practice amps to play through, the four decided on the anagram, N.E.M.F, as the band name and would continue to scout for a vocalist. Dean would later leave to pursue alternative musical interests and the band would undergo a series of member changes before meeting Dane Canterbury (15) who possessed a rather unique vocal ability for someone his age. Unable to find a second guitarist the four-piece began working towards their first set. Through frantic searching for contacts in the live industry, they were able to meet 2 brother-bands that would prove invaluable in their careers as musicians, Hell For Leather and My Shade. 


In late 2004, André made the difficult decision to concentrate on his career in computer science and the members had naught for a bassist. The search was over before it began when their good friend Bruce Cunningham (18), a guitarist for Hell For Leather, undertook the task as bassist. N.E.M.F gigged with that line-up for a period of two years achieving mild success in the Cape Town underground scene. What ever notoriety they might have achieved was owed to their live performance, as energetic and entertaining as to be worthy of international status. However, it became clear to the members that the music itself did not possess the necessary elements to win over listeners with the same efficacy as their performance of it. Much needed change had begun. 


In 2006, the members decided to rethink their musical roots and realized that a second guitarist would be crucial if they hoped to reach their potential as musicians. Not wanting to disrupt the bonds of friendship that already existed amongst the members, the band tried to keep the search “in-house”, a search which eventually led them to Gavin’s long time friend, Daniel Klopper (21). Unfortunately, Daniel would initially decline the invitation as he was already preoccupied with his own musical projects, of which there were many. Later that year Daniel would join the band amidst concerns about the musical direction as well as the attitude of the other four members. As such, Daniel would provide much needed inspiration and direction, raising the standard of professionalism in both their musical and relational endeavors. 


After much thought and deliberation, the band decided that the name N.E.M.F no longer represented their music nor their attitude towards it. Betray The Emissary would be their new name, and with their new found inspiration the band set out to create their first set together. Their dedication to combining the various faces of heavy metal, and their commitment to performances worthy of their cherished listeners has been widely and fervently received. The band is set for their debut release, In Memory of Me, in 2008. Recorded, mixed, and mastered by Louis Henn at Burning Tone Studios, Cape Town, South Africa. The year-long production was carried out by both Betray The Emissary and Louis Henn and is a product and a testament to the standards that the band holds of itself. With neither intentions, nor expectations concerning their success, the band writes, plays and performs their music for the sake of music itself, hoping only to bring listeners and supporters what the band feels they deserve…nothing but pure intensity. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Betray+the+Emissary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.