Since forming in the spring of ’04, Better Luck Next Time has put a staple on the pop punk scene as it is today. With 2 full-length albums, numerous compilation appearances, and a split CD under their belt, the band has proven they’re a force to be reckoned with. Their debut album “Third Time’s a Charm” was engineered, recorded, and produced entirely by themselves in the fall of ’05. It quickly caught the attention of InYaFace Records (Tokyo, Japan). The album hit Japanese Billboard at #19 on the Top 50 Charts. A year later, the band headed overseas to headline @UNITED Vol. 2 – Tokyo’s Melodic Attack in Shibuya, Japan at Club Quattro. The album was later declared the best selling foreign punk/emo record of ’06 in Japan.

In September ’06, the band was chosen as one of the top 10 unsigned bands in CA out of 2,500 by the world famous KROQ in Los Angeles. They have since had ongoing airplay and are requested on a regular basis. In the spring of ’07, the band was invited back to Japan to play one of the biggest events of the year, PUNKSPRING ’07. They shared the stage with such bands as NOFX, New Found Glory, Jimmy Eat World, Allister, Ellegarden, and many more big name acts.

Just months later, the follow-up to their debut album was released in Japan on August 25th. The album, “Start From Skratch,” quickly generated a buzz throughout Japan, as well as in the U.S. and Europe. A co-headlining tour with The Mad Caddies was put together in support of the record covering such areas of Japan as Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya. As with their first album, it was recorded and produced entirely by the band, and later taken to Scottsdale, AZ where it was mixed by Ryan Greene at Crush Recording.

Record sales for both albums has surpassed a combined 40,000 copies sold worldwide. Their music and hype has since leaked from Japan over to other parts of the world, including Europe and the U.S. The band is now signed to World Records out of Los Angeles, CA, and with this, they plan on introducing their music to a whole new audience, showing the world what the hype is all about.

http://blnt.org <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Better+Luck+Next+Time">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.