Bewized is a four-piece groove metal/metalcore band from Thessaloniki, Greece, formed in 2007. The current lineup of the band comprises Paschalis Theotokis (vocals, rhythm guitar) and Pantazis Theotokis (bass) who are the founder members of the band, Orestis Georgiadis (lead guitar) and Akis Tsiantis (drums). Former members were guitarist Theodoris Papadopoulos and drummer Kostis Tatsis. "Carved Upon Your Bones" was their first attempt to establish their presence in the underground metal community. A self-financed demo EP, that was released in 2008 was a propitious approach, but only a compelling force for the band to come and settle into existence. What labels bewized is fully depicted on their more mature full-length debut album (11 songs) entitled: "The Scorch of Rage", recorded at Noise Factory Studios (Thessaloniki, Greece) by Christian Rahm, mixed and mastered by Fotis Demertzis at Mix Studios (Thessaloniki, Greece).

In November 2010, Bewized inked a deal with Casket Music (a division of Copro Records, UK) for a worldwide release of The Scorch Of Rage made on April 25th, 2011. Late 2010 also found them with their first official video directed by Bob Katsionis (Nightrage, Rotting Christ, Suicidal Angels) for the track “Laceration of Innocence”. Numerous sources reproduced their stuff; from video hosts, webzines, TVshows to online radio stations, along with some fervent album reviews from the press, ultimately led Bewized to see a global recognition and exposure. In order to promote their album, shows were scheduled but part of them went through on a UK tour booked by their agency, spanning from July 16th - July 31th, 2011. A 2012 addition to their videography is their second clip for the track “Exhaling Perfection” directed by NonSap Visuals. Currently, they are working on new material while searching for the suitable producer and label for their next release.

www.bewizedofficial.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bewized">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.