Beyond Dawn was a Norwegian band composed of Espen Ingierd, Petter Haavik, Tore Gjedrem, and Einar Sjursø. Initially playing an unorthodox style of avant-garde doom metal, their sound gradually evolved through stages of experimental pop, gothic folk, psychedelic, and ultimately airy electropop. They are described on their official website as "Norway's Best & Least Selling Act", which most likely insinuates Beyond Dawn's distinct artistic integrity being connected with their relative lack of commercial success. 

After two demo tapes in 1990 and 1991, the band were picked up by French label Adipocere Records, which made possible the band's first two commercial releases, 1993's Up Through the Linear Shades 7" and 1994's Longing For Scarlet Days EP. In 1995, Beyond Dawn released their critically acclaimed full length debut Pity Love on Candlelight Records. Soon after, the band began work on an album intended to be a departure from the doom metal music they were becoming known for, but their record label was less than pleased with the band's drastic change in sound and they were soon in search of a new label. They eventually signed with Misanthropy Records and released Revelry in 1998 to more critical praise. Beyond Dawn eventually resumed work on the would-be 1996 album and, after adding additional material and overdubs, released In Reverie in 1999 on Eibon Records, which would also be reissued in 2005 with two bonus tracks included. During the latter half of 1999, they released Electric Sulking Machine on the Peaceville label, which soon became a favorite amongst fans and remains sought after due to its limited pressing. 

Due in part to the limited commercial success of Frysh, the band went on hiatus in 2003 to focus on other projects. Some time later, several tracks from Frysh were remixed by various electronic and EBM artists and released in the form of the double LP We're Down With Species of Any Kind in 2005. The band remains on an indefinite hiatus. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.