Beyond The Labyrinth (°1996, BTL for short) has always been something of an enigma.
Where people need predictable, classifiable labels, band leader Geert Fieuw’s vision has always been “First comes the music”, ignoring trends and movements, stubbornly following an own, often meandering, path.

“Classic Symphonic Rock/Metal”?

Admittedly, listening to Beyond The Labyrinth’s music reveals a lot more than meets the eye or, in this case, the ear : Influences from Classic and symphonic rock, AOR, neo-prog as well as NWOBHM and Gothic Metal manage to reach and convince a broad range of music lovers, even if they’re unfamiliar with the styles.
Mainstream fans may hear Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple, Metallica or soundtrack (e.g. Hans Zimmer) influences, insiders and connoisseurs will recognise a lot more – from Asia, Marillion over Deep Purple and (Dio- and Tony Martin-era) Black Sabbath to Nightwish, Kamelot, old-style Queensryche and more.
That’s why BTL decided to call their musical style “Classic Symphonic Rock/Metal” – but feel free to make up your own mind, and if you have a more appropriate tag to attach to the music, let them know !

Signs and more …

Started in 1996, the band is one of Belgium’s oldest bands in the style, but only a limited number of releases have seen their way to the audience.
Especially the 2005 “Signs” album which includes absolute fan favourites “In Flanders Fields” (a melancholic tune about the First World War, neatly floating between prog and goth metal) and “Tomorrow Is Gone” (a daring venture on the edge of AOR and metal) managed to draw the attention of media and fans. On top of the band’s efforts, an array of guest contributions put the icing on the cake – Richard West (Threshold), Marcel Coenen (Sun Caged) and Daniel Flores (Mind’s Eye) to name but a few.
All this resulted in opening shows for a.o. Riverside, Jon Oliva, Doro, Sonata Arctica and more, with excellent response from the fan base.

Outdone by reality

With the band being self produced, opportunities to make themselves more known abroad were little and the band’s forward movement started to slow down. By August 2007, after a 9-month period of instability, Geert Fieuw decided to take a step back and start from scratch to work on the “Castles In The Sand” album, in the making and scheduled since … 1997.
Back in 1999, Geert once jokingly said “at this rate of progress it looks like it’s going to be 2006-2007” – little did he know that his joke was going to be outdone by reality… and in 2001 the album artwork was commissioned to (design artist and Soilwork keyboard player) Carlos Del Olmo, because Geert expected the album to be “ready soon” – At least the cover artwork was on time ;)

“.. so we’re starting all over from scratch..

Revising all the songs, and writing some new ones along the way as well, working demos were finished by January 2008, and in came the musicians again, starting with the return of lead singer (and fan favourite) Jo De Boeck (who had left BTL in October 2006), followed by former bass player Gerry “Krenryg” Verstreken (also Imperia), and newbie drum player Bruno “Drumaholic” Goedhuys (ex-Sengir, also Doncker), and finally joined by another BTL veteran, keyboard player Danny Focke.
One of the new songs, the piano-driven “Pure Sabotage” (also a pun because -bass player- Gerry heard an early demo and said “it sounds like pure Savatage”) literally speaks about the difficult period in 2007, citing “.. so we’re starting all over from scratch..”, while another one “Draining My Energy” – a very driven, energetic song – alludes to the fight to keep BTL on its musical course.

Evolution

Sonically, the changes in line-up and working approach paid off as well: Compared to the 2005 "Signs" album, the band nowadays sounds tighter, harder-hitting, with even more dynamics and contrasts, and a broader range of influences than ever before, so classification will be even more difficult.
Until end of 2008, Beyond the Labyrinth will focus on the recording and release of "Castles in the Sand", and will be available for live concerts as of February 2009. 

In may - june - juli there where again some line up changes. The Beyond The Labyrinth line up is now:

Geert Fieuw - Guitars, Keyboards & Song writing
Jo De Boeck - Vocals
Gerry Verstreken - Bass
John Van Tongelen - Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+The+Labyrinth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.