There are three bands by this name - one Macedonian, one Polish and the other Austrian

1. (Macedonian) Beyond The Horizon started playing as a power metal band, featuring Martin-Zver on guitars, Stefan on drums, Strizlo (keyboards) Alexandar-Rale on bass and Martin-Sure as a vocalist. Then Zver had this idea of mixing it with melodic death metal. B.T.H had some hypocrisy problems with the keyboard player and he left the band. Also the present members of the band realized that Rale was not good enough in playing bass so he soon left the band too. The position of bass player took the vocalist Martin-Sure. The band continued playing with one guitarist, until Petar Spasovski-Pero, the second guitar player joined them. Since then they've been playing as a four-piece melodic death/power metal band. In September 2008 they started recording their first E.P. The production is made by Jane Todoroski (Einstein). The E.P. was named Reign Of The Unholy Stars after the same song, the E.P. contains 5 songs: Reign Of The Unholy Stars, Plane Of Desire, Just A Matter Of Psyche, Celestial Storm (part one) and Rainfall. The music of this E.P. is our unique mix of melodic death and power metal, based on fast and hard reefs and leads, fast technical drums, supported by low growls, high black metal like screams and harsh vocals. The ideology of this C.D. is about the philosophy of life and a little bit of anarchism. The E.P. was released on 12th of February 2010 under Alatir Promotions. After the recording of the E.P. Petar Spasovski left Beyond The Horizon because of personal causes, so the promotion of the E.P. was not a concert promotion but in the café Bravo. After this setback the band was out of playing for few mounts until Marijan Stojcevski was more than enough to satisfy the needs of Beyond The Horizon. The band continued playing with Marijan and as he fit in with Zver’s ideas the band was more and more mature as the time passed. Now the new material is more serious, with lots of progression, psychedelic but yet aggressive, with lots of other genres of music in it, with atheistic and anarchistic hard core lyrics, anti capitalism and American globalize, which we call progressive melodic death metal. 
When things started going great for bth Marijan Stojcevski left the band thus living us tree again. Things were going bad for BTH, we could not find a new guitar player suitable for our music, and we wanted to continue with only one guitar. And than enlighten we were. We tried a guy who was very good with the axe and kind of our style of music, so Martin Nikolovski (Mac) is now the new guitar of Beyond The Horizon. In the mine time Martin Cvetkovski wanted to focus on the bass guitar and so the microphone was taken by our good friend Ivan Tomic (Taki) witch has a very promising vocals and a lots of potential. Martin is now the bass player and backing vocals. Now the band is working on the first album and its going great with the 2 new refreshments in BTH.

3. BEYOND THE HORIZON (Villach, Austria) started writing songs in 2012. The goal was to create music with blast beats, a hell lot of sweeps and bonebreaking mosh parts and breakdowns. EP Forsaken Landscape out now. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+The+Horizon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.