bandcamp • facebook
Founded: 1992-1995(as Suffering) - 1995-1999, 2003-present
Origins: Adelaide, Australia
Genre:  brutal death metal
Record Label: Lavadome Productions

Band
Doomsayer • Guitars / Vocals
Bloodspawn • Guitars
Ghuul • Bass / Backing Vocals
Maleficus • Drums

Biography
Beyond Mortal Dreams has existed in the Adelaide/Australian metal scene since the mid 90's, carving up slabs of death metal through their early live performances. Unstable line ups have plagued the band for some time throughout their history however, forcing the entity into periods of hibernation. Determined to never give up, founding members Doomsayer (aka Pahl Hodgson) and Hellaeon (aka Matthew Butt) brought back to life the beast with an unquenchable passion for dark and savage death metal. During the 2000's BMD brought forth two demos PROMO 2004, and The DEMON AND THE TREE OF THE DEAD (2006). Joined by Ghuul (Bass/vocals) and Bloodspawn (Guitar), the band had brought their sonic savagery live, sharing the stage with many great Australian and international acts. In 2007, just before the release of the debut album FROM HELL (2008), Hellaeon had decided to depart from the ranks, leaving BMD without a drummer for some time until 2010, when Maleficus had come to join in the savage beating of the skins. Content to operate as a recording band only, writing and recording took place for the follow up to FROM HELL. The result - 2012's DREAMING DEATH ep, received by many in the underground as a death metal masterpiece. DREAMING DEATH took the the savagery of the earlier works into a more structured, at times ambient, and darker realm. With the help of label LAVADOME PRODUCTIONS, DREAMING DEATH spread farther out into the underground network than previous recordings ever have, gaining BMD much wider exposure than ever before. 2013 saw the vinyl release of DREAMING DEATH through LAVADOME PRODUCTIONS, helping to further the cause and the reach of the band's devastation. 

Fast forward to 2014, a new 7" EP entitled LAMIA growled it's way to life, co-released by LAVADOME PRODUCTIONS and UNHOLY PROPHECIES. LAMIA saw a return to the more savage styles of BMD's earlier works, including a re-recorded rendition of DEMONSWORD INFERNAL, which originally appeared on the 2006 demo. Not content to remain a studio band only anymore, 2014 will also see the return of Beyond Mortal Dreams to live active duty, returning to the stage for this year's BLACK CONJURATION FEST held in Adelaide, Australia, also featuring many great metal acts from across the country and internationally.

Writing is also in progress for the band's next full length release, intended for 2015 through LAVADOME PRODUCTIONS.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+Mortal+Dreams">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.