Formed in September 2005 in Glasgow, Scotland, Beyond The Forest combine female-fronted Symphonic Power Metal with a multitude of influences to create a passionate, blazing storm of anthemic melody. Confounding the lightweight perception of the genre, BTF avoid being tied to unwieldy cliches and keep it rocking hard and heavy while still maintaining ruthlessly high standards of performance and songwriting. Lyrically, their songs deal with righteous battle and the fight for justice against the tyranny of institutionalised religion, imperialism and ignorance. Musically, their main influences include early Nightwish, Sinergy, Doro, Sonata Arctica and Dark Tranquillity.

Rising from the ashes of Glasgow band Bipolar, Beyond The Forest was formed by vocalist Christine Molloy and composer/guitarist David Simpson, both music graduates of Strathclyde University, well-known for fostering the talents of groundbreaking Scottish musicians across all genres. Recruiting the pounding rhythm section of multi-instrumentalist Leila Dunn on bass and original BTF drummer, Billy Fisher (Levee Breakers, Luva Anna), the sound was soon complemented by the unhinged ebullience of guitarist Andrew Morson (previously of Prog Fusion band, Avatar) and the achingly dramatic symphonic synth beds of Stewart McKnight.

After finalising this six-piece line-up, an intense period of rehearsal began followed by gigging throughout 2006-07, including a support with rising Heavy Metal daemons, Conquest of Steel. This was accompanied by a development of their sound to encompass influences from European Extreme Metal right through to classic AOR and Hard Rock. Multi-layered vocal harmonies and blindingly tight performances have made their live show unforgettable to a burgeoning local fanbase while the band's attention to detail and rigorous rehearsal schedule have allowed them to continually up the ante in the live arena.

Following the departure of Billy at the end of 2007, Beyond The Forest soon hooked up with prodigiously talented sticksman Ross 'Bear' Rankin whose pounding beats have been heard with the endlessly victorious shred-force power trio, Titus Gein, and uncompromising prog-metal titans, None My Equal.

Having just completed their eponymous debut EP (mixed and mastered by former Aereogramme guitarist, Iain Cook), Beyond The Forest are now looking forward to honing their live show further. They play with Progressive Symphonic Metal band, Season's End, on the 13th of April, 2008.

More info can be found at http://www.beyondtheforest.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+The+Forest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.