If you were to sum up the collective philosophy of Beyond Dishonor, it would probably read that the most egregious mistake current metal bands make is to take themselves too seriously. Comprised of five members with very disparate influences, styles and quirks, this stalwart of the resurgent New Jersey Metal scene combines all of those myriad differences between them and, somehow, creates music that is brutal and aggressive enough for the most hardcore of fans and yet groovy enough to be accessible to those on the fringe. Frankly, they are tired of locals who seem to create music about dragons, fighting, tough guys, and especially tough guys that fight dragons. To Beyond Dishonor, there is NOTHING wrong with having fun, enjoying their craft and having 2-12 drinks with friends. Those that know the band and are familiar with their first release “Signs of a Struggle” recognize them as “deceptively talented”, “professional to a fault” and “as fun off the stage as they sound on the stage”. It is no wonder that they are a featured band with Philadelphia’s own Preston and Steve Morning Show on 93.3 WMMR.

Beyond Dishonor has finally found a unique comfort level with themselves with the addition of Dan Connors and Nick Petti to the lineup. Nick brings an accomplished attitude to the band and some much-respected stage experience and Dan provides the spark of creativity and wildness that can only come from someone young and talented. They perfectly complement the experience and professionalism of Mark and Lock to create a wild soundscape that veers just far enough away from the norm in order to capture the attention of today’s distractible music listener. Their sound has been described as "part traditional metal, part European metal with shades of Southern sensibility, progressive rhythm and a more-than-strong hint of metalcore". All of this is wrapped around the lyrics of singer Reese Dunlap, who's literary, filmographic and intellectual obsessiveness pervades each song with hidden meanings, double entendre', and tongue-in-cheek jabs. It is their sense of humor, their unabashed desire to never take themselves too seriously and a high level of talent and experience that has helped shape this 5 piece. Wicked Radio claims “Beyond Dishonor is the finest example of accomplished metal” and Taxi confesses that “This band is completely airtight – [we] would definitely see this band live after hearing only one track from their CD”. Judge for yourself why MySpace Metal called Beyond Dishonor "one of the top ten unsigned metal bands in the USA". Raise your glasses!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+Dishonor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.