There are multiple artists under the name Beyond :
1) Beyond is a revolutionary Hong Kong band that emerged in the mid-80's. Young and energetic, the four-piece band showed the Chinese audience that music can be much more than just pleasure to the ears. Beyond sang about freedom, strength, and love. Certain songs (Glorious Days and Amani) are even specifically dedicated to war and peace happening in other parts of the world at the time. The band's frontman Wong Ka Kui fell to his death in June 1993 but Beyond continued until 2005. The remaining three members now have individual projects.

2) A death metal band from Mainz, Germany that was active from 2008 (then known as Shapeless) to 2018. They played in the old school death metal style of american and south american bands such as Necrovore and Mortem. They have released a demo Relentless Abomination Vortex in 2011 on Detest records, a 7" EP, Enter Transcendence in 2012, and a full length LP Fatal Power Of Death in 2013, both on Iron Bonehead productions. Roland M. (as R) on vocals and guitar was the only constant member.

3) During its brief (1988-1989) bright lifespan, New York City’s Beyond made hardcore the way it’s supposed to be made: loud, fast, aggressive, and bristling with youth angst spinning wildly out of control. Either you’re too old to appreciate this, or you’re not. Fans of the NYC youth crew scene — including Judge, Youth of Today, Gorilla Biscuits, and the Cro-Mags — should already know and love Beyond.
Members of Beyond went on to be in Inside Out, Burn, Orange 9mm, Shelter, Bold, and Quicksand. Oh, and bassist Vic Dicara became a Hare Krishna.

4) Beyond aka Musab is an underground rapper, co-founder of the Minnesota-based Rhymesayers label. Member of The Dynospectrum, alongside with  Slug, Mr. Gene Poole, and I Self Devine. His first album "Comparison", produced by Ant of Atmosphere, was released in 1996.

5) A moniker of Gijs Vroom a Dutch electronic producer

6) UK pop group

7) A progressive metal band from Canada. Canadian band started as a thrash metal band and became a progressive/speed metal band.

8) A Norwegian melancholic rock band from the 90s.

9) A high-end production company for trailer-music.

10) A Swedish Death Metal band which later changed their name to Interment.

11) A thrash metal from Hungary.

12) An Italian gothic metal/melodic metal band.

13) A South Korean boy band

14) A short-lived Hungarian HC-metal band from the 90s.

15) An industrial metal band from the United States that evolved from the ashes of Demented Ted. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.