Beyond Death is an unsigned/independent  thrash metal band from Buffalo, N.Y. Beyond Death formed back in 1986 with founding members vocalist and bassist Alex Webster, guitarist Jack Owen, and drummer Darrin Pfeiffer. They recorded their first 3 song demo “A Slice of Death” which took notice in the late 80’s underground metal scene. After their first demo that was then when Frank Lombardi joined Beyond Death as their second guitarist. Frank also shared lead vocals with Alex. The now four piece exploded into the local scene in 1988 with their next demo entitled “Yuk Fou”. 

In 1989 Alex and Jack departed ways from Beyond Death and were fortunate to team up with recent disbanded members from Tirant Sin. That fusion created the now legends of death metal, Cannibal Corpse. Darrin and Frank kept Beyond Death together however until Darrin moved on to play for local hardcore band Zero Tolerance and later joined ska giants Goldfinger. Frank moved to the hardcore side and played with No Alibi and other various metal bands.

By late 1989, Frank decided to try and continue Beyond Death once again and he sang and wrote most of the songs. Frank found a new bassist; Jason Coryer. After no luck in finding a new drummer, Darrin came back to fill in part time and played a few shows as well as help to record another studio demo. The hunt for a drummer finally came to an end as Frank and Jason found Bill Rogala who came from another local band called Guillotine. Beyond Death was together once again playing shows in clubs across Buffalo as a three piece band. They recorded the next live demo entitled “You Make Me Vomit” in early 1990. Unfortunately the band did not move along as expected and once again Beyond Death drifted apart into a hiatus then disbanded two years later in 1992. 

Sixteen years later remarkably the trio Frank, Jason and Bill were able to connect with each other and started talking about another taking a shot at Beyond Death in 2007. After only a few practices, Beyond Death was back playing shows in the summer of 2007. In late 2007 Beyond Death produced their latest, “HappySick” which combined some of their old school songs with new. Unfortunately the lack of band commitments soon took their toll and another hiatus was in store.

In 2010 they once again decided to get back on stage. The revamped local scene brought a new crowd of fans and the buzz was back. More shows were planned and new songs were written.

Beyond Death is currently in the process of creating another studio recording and is still preforming shows in Buffalo. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+Death">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.