Beyond Perception
were originally formed in the summer of 2004 by Kostas Kalavrezos (guitar), Panos Kalavrezos (bass) Tolis Toleas (drums) and Paris Poukamisas (vocals, guitar), as a Progressive/Metal band, recording their first self released demo. After a while the band takes a different direction, mainly influenced by Sludge/Hardcore/Stoner/Southern Metal tunes, welcoming in their line-up Panos Karnaris (from WFDD), as a new vocalist. 

After several months of hard work, as well as the encouragement of their fans, they record their first professional album, “The Final Descend”. Soon after its release, they are on tour again, playing with famous bands of the Greek and foreign Metal scene. They sign a contract with Casket Music/Copro Records UK and they quickly become known abroad, through various music websites, obtaining outstanding reviews from major magazines, such as Metal Hammer UK, Kerrang and Terrorizer.

In the summer of 2009 they sign a contract with Pandora’s Box Booking Management/Booking Agency, a collaboration which is still going on.
In September 2010 they record their second full length album named “Blood & Whiskey”, released through DSN Music, an American independent label. 

The official video for the track “Hydra” appears on the Greek MTV Headbanger’s Ball, in the spring of 2011. Soon after their album release, they lead a successful “Blood ‘N’ Whiskey Tour” in Greece, the UK and Ireland, where their material receives a very warm welcome. After a few months the band is chosen to participate in the Wacken Metal Greek Final Battle, making a strong appearance and gaining positive reviews. In the summer of 2012 the frontman and lead singer of the band, Panos Karnaris leaves the band and once again Beyond Perception find themselves searching for a new singer.

Luckily, Makis Makoulas, former vocalist of “Negative Creeps” and “The Source” is available at the time. Makis has shared the stage with some of the greatest bands including “Rotting Christ”, “Septic Flesh”, “Nightfall”, “Nightstalker”, “Suicidal Angels" and has also supported bands like "Biohazard", "D.R.I.", "Pro Pain", "Necronomicon", "Asphyx", "Illdisposed" and "Discipline", touring abroad in Poland, Turkey and elsewhere. 

On April 2014 Beyond Perception inked a record deal with Turkey Vulture/Bungalo Records /Universal Music Group Distribution, resulting the release of the third album of the band under the title, “Anthem For the Wasted” , following a number of live shows, boosting the new songs and also performing a blend of the songs of the previous releases.
Furthermore, Beyond Perception participated in 2013 and in 2015, in “And Coverz For All...A Greek Tribute To Metallica”, Metal Hammer Greece issue # 348 and in “The Great Greek Trendkill - A Tribute to Pantera”, Metal Hammer Greece issue # 361, covering the songs “Wherever I May Roam” and “Mouth For War” respectively, along with some of the best Greek bands.

Beyond Perception have shared the stage with bands such as Spiritual Beggars, Annihilator, Goran Bregovic, Ava Inferi (Rune Eriksen doom Project ( Mayhem, Aura Noir), Nightstalker and lots more. 

Beyond Perception are:
Makis Makoulas (vocals)
Kostas Kalavrezos (guitar), 
Panos Kalavrezos (bass) 
Tolis Toleas (drums)


Discography:
Beyond Perception demo (self releasead)
The Final Descend (Casket Music/Copro Records UK)
Blood N Whiskey (DSN Music USA)
Vital Ground
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+Perception">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.