Listen to new songs from Beyond Surface-members Gerrit & Marten right here:
http://www.lastfm.de/music/Jovian+Spin

Beyond Surface is a young band from Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany, chosen by Metal Hammer magazine as the German winner of the "Young Metal Gods 2003" band contest. This victory made it possible for them to record their debut album professionally and to release it through the well-known metal/rock label Noise Records. The result, "Destination's End", included catchy melodies and hooklines which sparked at first attempt and animated to sing along. Moreover, the band proved with a solid guitar work including some great riffs and solos, nice keyboard elements and befittingly deep and melancholic vocals of singer and frontman Gerrit, influenced by bands such as HIM, Paradise Lost, Sentenced and End Of Green, that they didn't win the title "Young Metal Gods" for nothing. Many gothic fans still consider this album an "insider tip" today, and the numerous good reviews affirmed the band's efforts. 

After having played a few concerts in the near area of their hometown and a headliner show at the Hungarian Gothica festival, the band drew back again whereas they also had to cope with line-up problems. At the end of 2004/beginning of 2005, bassist Max, keyboardist Sascha and guitarist Marten quit the band and left a big hiatus in the band that was now a trio consisting of vocalist Gerrit, guitarist Thorsten und drummer Loeffel. But instead of just throwing in the towel and giving up, the band continued fighting and finally found a worthy replacement for bassist Max - Thomas. The position of Keyboardist Sascha remained unreplaced and Gerrit, who himself had been a lead guitarist for years, took over the position of Marten. 

Back together in a tight line-up, they began writing new songs and it became clear at first push that the band would leave the gothic direction and attempt a new beginning with a new and fresh sound. They started writing new material that distinguished itself through a more modern and pushing rock sound with a lot of killer riffs, drum attacks and clear-sounding, still very catchy hooklines which were all completely different from the gothic sound of their debut album. With their new song, the ballad-like "Shine On", they managed to beat more than 100 competitors in the "re:spect" contest that was built up by the famous German rock singer Marius Mueller-Westernhagen. As a reward, they were given the chance to be the opener at the final concert of Marius Mueller Westernhagen's last tour. Having received that chance, they were not only able to play in front of their biggest audience ever (about 40.000 people) but they also gained a lot of new fans. Other concerts in their area und the positive reactions of the fans encouraged the band to keep their new sound, and they now keenly focused on producing a demo EP called "Confusion Reigns" that is almost finished at the time being. There are also some concert dates due this summer where the four-piece will once more give proof of their great live qualities. 


Current line-up:
Gerrit (voc, guit)
Thorsten (guit, backing voc)
Thomas (bass)
Loeffel (drums)

Official Homepage
Band MySpace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+Surface">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.