Beyond God are a female fronted symphonic metal band from The Netherlands. Their music incorporates elements from heavy metal, classical and symphonic music. Heavy guitars and drums are combined with symphonic string and brass ensembles. This results in dark, atmospheric compositions where both heavy guitar riffs and symphonic orchestrations are melted into one. The most important aspects in their music are beautiful and even catchy vocal lines, ranging from a 'pop' to operatic singing style.

What makes their music stand out from other symphonic metal is that the heavy metal side of the music is at the service of the symphonic and classical side. The starting point for creating their music are the symphonic orchestrations, rather than layering guitar riffs with some strings.

Beyond God was founded by Ferry Guns in 2008. His main focus was to write the basic symphonic orchestrations. Ferry, being a drummer, soon added drums to these orchestrations. After a while he started searching for musicians that could contribute to Beyond God and to turn the basic orchestrations into the symphonic metal songs they are now.

In 2011 Peter den Bakker (bass guitar), Cynthia Knoch (vocals) and Twan Smolders (guitar) joined Beyond God. And in 2012 they worked out Ferry's musical ideas into complete songs. Besides working on the music, 2012 was a busy year where Beyond God matured from a project of ideas into a full grown band. A demo EP was recorded, a website has been developed and artwork was designed.

Early 2013 their debut EP has been released and doors were opened to enter the stage. They will focus on live gigs all across the country and preparations will start for a full album release. They may even have one or two nice surprises in store for you. Follow them on their website and social media and stay tuned!

(from their official band website: beyondgod.nl) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.