This is our story so far... I started this band with another guitarist when i was about 18 years old... I started it with him, because i thougt he would play the guitar very well, because he was already playing it for about 10 years...

When i found out what his skills were i doubted that :-P...

I was still trying to find other musicians that had the same dreams and interests in music, and of course people that knew how to play their instruments...

When i was still with this guitarist i started out with, we went to an After Forever concert and one girl who was from my hometown could REALLY sing and i totally wanted her in my band... My ex-girlfriend actually came up with the idea, because we were actually looking for a male singer.

We asked this girl and she is still our singer to date ( +/-2 years later)...

Her name was Marinka and soon after she joined our band the guitarist i started out with was banned because of musical differences and not being able to play the fast riffage that i came up with...

Marinka and I then started to rehearse, mostly at my home... We were playing coversongs then, most of them were from after forever, but also maiden and metallica.

We were still on the quest for finding other musicians who shared our enthousiasm for music...

After a while we found this guitarplayer called Rene...
A good guitar player who had the same taste in music, his influence was mainly slayer, which is one of my influences as well...

We started to jam and in the meantime i had bought some recording equipment to record at home...
At this time i started to write music, a whole new world opened for me and i really enjoy writing this music.

I took this to a rehearsal and everybody loved it, but still some changes were made ("perfectionist" me)...
Marinka started to make a singing melody in her head... and you can finally hear what she came up with!!!

When the first song was finished a drummer emerged who had been out of the music world for about 9/10 years, but was really interested in playing with our band...
He bought himself a drumkit and started practicing his ass off on a daily basis...
This guys name: John

When we were rehearsing this song i started writing other songs as well and i wrote 2 songs in about a week (creative week:-P)...

When we were still rehearsing the first song (we are actually still doing that :-P) a bassist was added to the family.. his name: Kasper...

He was in some other bands but really wanted to play with us and so he joined...

UPDATE:
In the beginning of 2008 Marinka started to get problems with her voice. In a couple of weeks she wasn't able to sing anymore. She went to the doctor and the diagnosis was that she had a defect in her thyroid gland. This affected her voice in a bad way and even caused lumps on her vocal cords. Unfortunately for us as a band to go on Marinka had to be replaced. We found a replacement singer pretty soon. Her name is Rowan. She was looking for a band to sing in. She was even posting messages on Marktplaats.nl :-S haha. She was asked to come to one of our rehearsals and we really liked her singing immediately. She was really motivated to and within a few weeks we were up and running again.

Then the next problem arised. Our bass player went to college and decided he couldn't combine the band with school, so he had to be replaced as well. It took us quite a while to find a new bass player. One day... Sander Gommans from after forever/HDK gave us the telephone number of a bass player called Sander(too??:-S)who had been taking guitar lessons from him. This came as a great relief for us. He came by at our next rehearsal and even though he couldn't play any of our songs yet, we had faith in him to be able to learn the songs in a short amount of time.

Now, in 2009 we are finally ready to ROCK again. And we'll be playing our first gig with Rowan and Sander at the same place we did our last one with Marinka and Kasper
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Beyond+Sanity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.