Big Cyc ("Cyc" means Tit in polish) - Polish punk-rock band founded in 1988 by Skiba born in Gdańsk and other 3 members from Ostrów Wielkopolski.The members of Big Cyc met at the University of Łódź. Jędrzejak played guitar in a student reggae band "Rokosz", Skiba performed in student theatre Pstrąg and in many school cabarets. In 1988 Rokosz broke up, and Jędrzejak wanted to create a new rock band. Jędrzejczak, Lis, Skiba, and Lechowicz joined him and they created Big Cyc.

In March 1988 the student club Balbina housed the first show of Big Cyc, called "Uroczysta akademia na cześć 75-lecia wynalezienia damskiego biustonosza" (A solemn ceremony to celebrate the 75th anniversary of invention of women's brassiere). Big Cyc made successive songs, and in 1990 they published their first album, "Z partyjnym pozdrowieniem". The album became a hit in Poland and in short time Big Cyc became well-known in the country.

Successive songs and albums of Big Cyc took a sarcastic look on the reality of Polish politics and people. Often in ironic manner, the songs expose issues like problems of Polish youth, economic disproportions, drug addiction, or silliness of TV commercials. In 1996 Big Cyc published their seventh album, called "Z gitarą wśród zwierząt" (With guitar among animals), which contains the most famous song in history of band, Makumba, the stereotypical story of an African student in Poland.

Two newest albums of Big Cyc, "Świat według Kiepskich" (World according to Kiepscy) from 2000 and "Zmień z nami płeć" (Change your gender with us) from 2002 weren't very popular. Big Cyc switched to satirising politics - amongst others, they made the single "Złoty warkocz" (Golden praid) about Polish member of parliament Renata Beger. In late 2005 Big Cyc made a media furore in Poland with their controversial single titled "Moherowe berety" (Mohair berets), a commentary on vocal older generation in Poland, viewed by many younger people as old-fashioned (see Mohair berets).
Current members of Big Cyc:
Jacek Jędrzejak aka Dżej Dżej (pronunced asJ.J.)
Jarek Lis aka Dżery (pronunced as Jerry)
Roman Lechowicz aka Piękny Roman ("Handsome Roman")
Krzysztof Skiba aka Skiba

Dicography:
Z partyjnym pozdrowieniem (With greeting of The Party)
Nie wierzcie elektrykom (Don't believe electrics)
Miłość, muzyka, mordobicie (Love, Music, Brawl)
Wojna plemników (War of spermatozoons)
Frankenstein's Children 
Nie zapomnisz nigdy (You'll never forget)
Golonka, flaki i inne przysmaki (Knuckle, guts and another dainties)
Z gitarą wśród zwierząt (With guitar among animals)
Pierwsza komunia, drugie śniadanie, trzecia Rzeczpospolita (1st communion, 2nd breakfast, 3rd Republic)
Wszyscy święci (All saints)
Świat według Kiepskich (The World according to Weaks)
Zmień z nami płeć (Change your gender with us)
Bombowe hity: 1988-2004 (Bomb hits: 1988-2004)
Moherowe berety (Mohair Berets) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Big+Cyc">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.