Big Daddy Kane (born Antonio Hardy, September 10, 1968) is a rapper from Brooklyn, New York. He grew up in the notorious Bed-Stuy section of Brooklyn. During his career, he has worked with artists including Biz Markie, Marley Marl, Teddy Riley, Rudy Ray Moore and Barry White. Part of Marley Marl's legendary Juice Crew, he also penned lyrics for fellow members Biz Markie and Roxanne Shante. Kane was responsible for jump-starting the career of Jay-Z, now a hugely commercially successful rapper who got his start as Kane's hypeman.

Widely regarded as one of the greatest rappers during the 'golden age' of hip hop (1986–1993), Kane's experimentation with R&B beats and his alignment to the Five Percent faction drew criticism. Later albums, such as Looks Like a Job For..., were acclaimed, but he was never able to return to the commercial and artistic success of It's a Big Daddy Thing. However, he still tours extensively and is involved in several upcoming projects. He recently featured in Morcheeba's hip hop trip song 'What's your Name'.

During 1996, before the murder of 2Pac, it was said that Pac intended to start his own label, Makaveli Records, featuring promintently East Coast acts; one of the artists he intended to sign was Kane, and the two even recorded a song before the rapper's death, entitled Wherever U Are.

Big Daddy Kane has posed for Playgirl and Madonna's Sex book. As an actor, he debuted in Mario Van Peebles' western, Posse.

Big Daddy Kane is famous for his pimp persona that is portrayed in his lyrics. He is famous for the title of his song, "Pimpin' Ain't Easy". The backronym "King Asiatic Nobody's Equal," is often applied to his moniker.

Recently (especially as of 2002), Big Daddy Kane has been increasingly doing collaborations with underground/alternative hip hop artists (ie. Little Brother, The Alchemist and DJ Babu from the Beat Junkies) and Kane has mentioned that he is not intending to release another solo album as he is looking towards a career in acting.

Discography
1988 Long Live the Kane (Cold Chillin')
1989 It's a Big Daddy Thing
1989 Back on the Block
1990 Taste of Chocolate
1991 Prince of Darkness
1993 Looks Like a Job For...
1994 Daddy's Home (RCA)
1998 Veteranz Day (Blackheart)
2002 The Man, The Icon (Landspeed)(Produced by Alchemist and DJ Babu on 2002's "Duck Season Vol. 1"
2003 Any Type of Way (Landspeed)(12" single produced by DJ Premier)
2003 Parts of the Process Morcheeba <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Big+Daddy+Kane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.