Kenneth Doniell Moore (August 20, 1974 – October 14, 2007), better known by his stage name Big Moe, was an American rapper from Houston, Texas. He was known for a softer and slower style than other Houston rappers, including a mixture of rapping and singing that he called "rapsinging" as well as for his music that celebrated codeine-laced syrup as a recreational drug.

Kenneth Doniell Moore was born in Houston, Texas on August 20, 1974, and he grew up in southeast Houston. He graduated from Yates High School in 1992 and he was a former high school football star.

As one of the founding members of the "Original Screwed Up Click," Big Moe started out in music by freestyling on DJ Screw mixtapes before being signed to Wreckshop Records. Wreckshop Records released Big Moe's debut album, City of Syrup in (2000); the title a nod to Houston's reputation for drinking codeine-laced syrup, which Moe pours from a Styrofoam cup on the album's cover. "City of Syrup" album featured the single, "Mann!", which Moe intended to be The South Side's answer to Black Rob's East Coast hit "Whoa!". A year and half later, Moe returned with his second album, Purple World in (2002). This release showcased a Who's Who of Houston vocalists and two versions of Moe's breakthrough single, "Purple Stuff." The Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory-themed video for "Purple Stuff" was played on MTV and the album ranked as high as No. 3 on Billboard's Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. Big Moe's third and last album, Moe Life, was issued in 2003, including the commercially successful single "Just a Dog." A posthumous album entitled Unfinished Business was released on March 18, 2008 via Wreckshop Records and Koch Records. In 2009 his album City Of Syrup was named number 25 on houstonpress.com's list of the 25 Best Houston Hip Hop Albums.

Moe died on October 14, 2007 at 33 years old, after suffering a heart attack one week earlier that left him in a coma. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Big+Moe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.