Big Syke aka Mussolini “Real Souljah’s never retreat”, says Big Syke. From Little Psycho to Big Syke, the name represents the graduation of each grade from the school of the streets. Born and raised in Inglewood, California, Big Syke comes from where hip-hop was born; the spot where the mind is challenged against circumstances, “You gotta be crazy to survive in the jungle”. Drugs, sex, and violence lured him and many of his comrades into destruction until Syke decided to turn to the solace of music. Big Syke starts telling his story with ‘Evil Mind Gangstas’. EMG was not a rap group or a crew per se; rather a collection of like-minded individuals who hung out together, supported each other, and just happened to record their history by making rap songs. Using his hustling skills, Syke sold thousands of EMG’s first album, “All Hell Breakin’ Loose”, which became the soundtrack to the lives of so many inner-city youth. The hard work put toward EMG built up his street credibility and led him into new musical relationships. In 1991, Big Syke met Tupac Shakur and they quickly became, ‘Closest Road Dog’’s, (Tupac Shakur, Until The End Of Time). This relationship marked another grade of street graduation, as Big Syke also became Mussolini – the first of Tupac’s OUTLAWs. The two made lots of songs together, starting with, ‘T.H.U.G. L.I.F.E.’, which is one of many songs that was never released in its original form. Big Syke was also featured on, ‘How Long Will They Mourn Me’ and ‘Cradle To The Grave’ from the ‘THUG LIFE’ album that ultimately reached platinum status. Being a part of THUG LIFE meant more than just making music. THUG LIFE is an acronym that stands for The Hate U Gave Lil’ Infants Fucks Everybody. It is a consciousness, a movement, and a way of thinking that encourages the disadvantaged in society to rise above the challenges faced in the streets. Like EMG, Big Syke found another family of like-minded individuals who bonded for the purpose of prosperity. Tupac featured Big Syke more on his songs than any other artist, which is a testament to their brotherhood. From Tupac’s ‘All Eyez On Me’ album, Syke was featured on ‘All Eyez On Me’, ‘Picture Me Rollin’’, and ‘Check Out Time’. On October 16, 1996, Big Syke released his first solo album, ‘Be Yoself’ from his own label ‘Rideonum Records’. The album was well received by music critics and fans alike, and made way for more opportunities. Syke worked with artists like Ol’ Dirty Bastard, Spice 1, Nate Dogg, and more, making cameo appearances on their albums. Syke did sign on with Rap-A-Lot Records, but decided to continue to move independently before the release of his second solo album, ‘Big Syke’. As well as making music, Syke is pursuing other avenues of the entertainment industry. Dabbling in film, with the writing of a movie script, and fashion, with the imminent launch of his female lounge gear. The near future will realize the fruits of Sykes hard work, just like music has so far. A hustler at heart and a Souljah to the end, Big Syke rises above adversity and is still moving forward. bigsyke@outlook.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Big+Syke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.