Bigga Haitian is known as the first Haitian singer to break into the Jamaican reggae scene, tearing down national and cultural walls and paving the way for the next generation of Haitian artists.

        Born Charles Dorismond in Port Au Prince, Haiti, Bigga Haitian hails from a musical family. His father, Andre Dorismond, was the lead singer of The Webert Sicot Group, pioneers of Haitian dance music known as Kompa. Bigga immigrated to New York City at the age of 8 and grew up amidst the pulsating rhythms of reggae music in the vibrant Jamaican community of Flatbush, Brooklyn. In 1981, Bigga saw Admiral Bailey perform his hit tune “Big Belly Mon” at Manhattan’s Reggae Lounge and realized in that instant that he was destined to become a reggae singer. At this moment, reggae sensation Bigga Haitian was born.

        Bigga has been blazing up the stage for more than 20 years, appearing with reggae legends Shabba Ranks, Beenie Man, Sizzla, Capleton, Cocoa Tea, and Junior Reid, to name a few. Bigga broke into the hip-hop scene in the 1990s, opening for the Ruff Ryders, Lil’ Kim, and Jay-Z at New York City’s Randall’s Island. Today’s most talented Haitian artists, such as Wyclef Jean and Mecca a/k/a Grimo, credit Bigga as an influence.

        Many of New York’s most notable venues have hosted Bigga’s legendary performances including SOB’s, The Apollo Theater, McCarren Park Pool, B.B. King’s, The Lion’s Den, and Galapagos Art Space. He has also performed at festivals in Jamaica and the Caribbean, including a show hosted by Island Records founder Chris Blackwell.  Bigga’s recent performances include New York’s Jamrock Reggae Fest with Shaggy, Mavado, Collie Buddz, and Buju Banton, and headlining slots at the 2008 Boston Spring Reggae Fest and the 2007 Lake Worth Reggae Fest, which drew over 10,000 people.

        Bigga’s first album, I Am Back, features a remix of his dancehall anthem, “Haiti A Where Me From” which was a #1 single on the Haitian charts, and is still a staple of Haitian radio to this day. He followed this success with his second release, Binghi Mon, which includes “Tribute to Patrick Dorismond,” featuring Barrington Levy’s “Murderer” anthem. “Tribute” was produced by Jah Life, who also produced the original Barrington Levy recording. Bigga recorded two singles, “Red Carpet” and “Sexy Body” at Freddie McGregor’s studios in Jamaica which were originally released on McGregor’s Big Ship Records and later featured on Doctor Dread’s RAS Records’ compilation Best of the Best, Vol. 5 (Freddie McGregor Presents: Best of Big Ship #1). Bigga has also recorded tracks with artists including Yvad (current lead singer of The Wailers), Ken Boothe, and Denroy Morgan of Morgan Heritage.

        Bigga Haitian continues to write, record, and perform future classics and recently signed with Walkup Records.  His first single for the label, “Gi Me Da Weed” received high praise and radio play on over 50 stations across the U.S. and Europe. Walkup released Bigga’s third album, Sak Pasé, online in 2009. “London Massive,” one of the tracks on the album, was featured along with Binghi Mon’s “King of Glory” in the series finale of NBC’s The Philanthropist. Sak Pasé will be released on CD from Walkup Records February 9, 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bigga+Haitian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.