There are several artists operating under the name Bijou:

1) There is no artist today who is more synonymous with G-House than BIJOU. The “G” is short for “gangster” and BIJOU is nothing less when he’s on the decks or in the studio. His is a sound that is sleek and stylish. Understated but still packs a real punch.

BIJOU, real name Ben Dorman, came out the gate swinging when he dropped his debut collaboration with Dr. Fresch, “Hello,” in 2016. Since then, the output of top notch, dance-floor-rocking music hasn’t slowed down one bit.

Singles like “Crown” feat. Tyler Graves and “Floetry Remix” feat. Ro Ransom along with EPs like Gangsta Party and Super Phat put him the position to embark on two headlining US tours and start his own label, Do Not Duplicate Records (DND RECS) which has hosted releases from fellow gangsters like Nostalgix and Wenzday.

All of this momentum that cruised with the flair and glamor of a pimped-out lowrider culminated in Dorman’s debut album, Diamond City, which served as an ode to his hometown of Phoenix, Arizona. The fiery sun that defines the city is packed into all of the impressive 15-tracks across the release.

The album also features a slew of maddening collaborations like, “Benjamins” feat. Wifisfuneral, “FTP” feat. Denzel Curry, “Baller” feat. Cuban Doll, and “WHOA” feat. Party Favor. It’s hard to believe there is so much gangster in one album, but if anyone is able to pull it off it’s BIJOU, and there will be plenty more G-House to come in the future.

2) Bijou is a rock French band, formed in 1976, that played in the punk festival of Mont-de-Marsan in the summer. They played a couple of songs live with Serge Gainsbourg in 1979, which made him want to play live again (he had not played live since 1964). They split in the early 80s, & made several come-backs since then.

3) Bijou is a Hungarian downtempo/chill-out band, which was formed in 2003. They have a minimal sound accompanied by the airy vocals of Szilvia Hártó, who's writing her own lyrics. Members of the band are: Zoltán Asztalos on drums, Leó Menyhárt on the guitar and András Koroknay on the bass guitar. The authentic flavour of their music is quite new to the Hungarian music scene – thanks to them, this blank point is now finally filled.

4) Vocalist/Producer/Faerie: http://soundcloud.com/bijoudream <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bijou">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.