There are three artists by the name of Bile:

1) An Industrial metal band from the US. BILE has been pumping the dance floors of Hell since 1992. Considered pioneering forerunners of the new crop of industrial-metal hybrid acts that appeared in the late '90's and 2000's, BILE has always maintained their own style. Based in New York, the band has a floating line-up, but most of the musical duties are handled by former Napalm vocalist/guitarist Krztoff (Chris Liggio). Originally featuring nine members on the first two albums and gaining a large amount of publicity from the inclusion of 'I Reject' on the platinum-selling Mortal Kombat movie soundtrack, Bile slimmed down in the years prior to 1999's Sex Reflex, eventually becoming a three-piece. This album features their most popular song to date, "In League", famously featured in Dee Snider's film, Strangeland. When performing live, Bile currently consists of Krztoff (vocals, bass),  former-Angeldust guitarist Dave Sussman and drummer John DeSalvo "Serv-O"  (KMFDM, 16Volt, Chemlab). Krztoff is also currently an active member of Pigface and Black From the Dead (with Charles Levi of My Life With the Thrill Kill Kult) and in 2001 performed guest appearances on both Sepultura's Nation and Ill Niño's Revolution Revolución. Former members include founding-bassist R.H. Bear (E-X-E), Slave (Black Ops Conspiracy), Omen (Ooze), Brett Pirozzi (Kreep), Doug Bohn (Suffocation, Lockdown), Eric Roi (Lockdown),  Jeff Lombardi (Napalm, Lockdown) and Tom Zagorski (Eye Kandy, Godhead).

2) A goregrind band from the Netherlands, formed in 1998. It has now changed its name to Skullhog. Under the name Bile, it has released an EP and a full-length, both of which are highly acclaimed.

3) A black metal band from Germany. They have released one album in 2004, Vernichtungsschlag.

4) Bile is a political punk band out of Paris, France playing mid-tempo rock music. https://cestbile.bandcamp.com/releases <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.