Billy Bob's Blood Drenched Brew is a Brew Metal band formed late in 2010 in the city of Dubai. Although relatively new to the scene, the band is composed of members from various different bands; Aaron Wadia(A shot of Adrenaline), Ardalan "RD" Saberi(A shot of Adrenaline), Vineet Mohandas(Capricous Alchemy/Swiftheart Rabbit/Deviant), Joe Samuel(Discord/Currently; Nikotin) and Josh Saldanha(Decoy Death Trap/Of Brutality and Grace/Private Government). Formed specifically to be a one off project for a Battle of The Bands event, the band wrote some original material, played a few shows and haven't stopped since. Though Dubai is dominated by music from the mainstream, the band is one of the very few in the scene who push extreme metal in the region to new extremes. With fatuous stories and lyrics arising from the pursuit of the Ultimate Brew being grunted and growled layered on top of highly energetic, powerful and somewhat technical guitar and drumwork, the band coins this noise "Brew Metal", a blend of various different elements of metal. 

The band underwent a few line-up changes in 2011 when Vocalist RD had to leave Dubai for Thailand. He was replaced by Shams Khizriev who contributed his vocals on the tracks on 'The Split.' Shams departed in 2012 and RD rejoined the band and took over Vocals. 

As of yet, the band has only 1 release: The Split - a split CD with Jordanian Hardcore act "Who Will Guard the Guardians."


Mythos:
Centuries ago whilst men still roamed the deserts and lived in the old caverns of what we now know as Sumer in ancient Mesopotamia, a single tribe of warriors hailed supreme. They were the Bobakidītum. The clan was revered all over the land for their resilient nature, their powerful warriors, innovative weaponry, their beautiful women, but most of all, the Bobakidītum was famous for possessing the recipe to a unique brew which has been said to grant the drinker immense strength and the ability to be successful in any endeavor he sets forth to achieve. Many claimed that the brew was handed to the Bobakidītum by the Anunnaki themselves which would explain the immense power it possessed.

The brew was of special importance to the Bobakidītum and even became an integral part of their rituals. It was so important that the Bobakidītum relied on it for their survival. Women and children were forbidden to even come as close as a few meters from the drink. Only on a boy's 21st birthday is he allowed to consume. In order to do this, he is to kill a deadly Giant Sumerian Otter(Extinct relatives to the sea otter) with his bare hands and skin it with his teeth and craft a pelt for his father before he were allowed to consume the brew. It should go without saying that the neighboring tribes often tried to raid the Bobakidītum and get a little taste of the brew, and it must also go without saying that any attempts were foiled and the participants slain. There were many attempts from women and children within the tribe who tried to get their hands on the brew in order to defeat bullies and rivals. Their fate was also death. This is how the brew came to be known as "Dos tsagf" which would loosely translate to "Blood soaked drink" or "Blood Drenched brew."

The recipe was handed down from generation to generation, but as time progressed, the younger generation of the Bobakidītum clan began to lose interest in their cultural past and moved on abandoning their traditional Akkadian tongue and rituals and the Bobakidītum's numbers began to diminish. The significance of the brew also seemed to fade and estranged clan members began to share it with the people they admired. Famous scholars, teachers, and religious leaders all took part(most notably Jesus of Nazareth) and eventually only 1 copy of the recipe remained. Realizing the significance of what they possessed, the last of the Bobakidītum made sure to instill their stories and their beliefs to their offspring to preserve their identity. Over time, however, very little could be salvaged of the Bobakidītum, but the stories and the recipe remained.

On August 4th, 1955, Billy Bob was born. His parents, though far away from the home of their ancestors carried their stories with them and told Billy Bob everything he would ever need to know about his colourful past. The recipe for the brew was however missing. As he grew older, he obsessed over finding this piece of his family history, till one day, in an old Mesopotamian harp, he found it. Keeping to his old traditions, Billy Bob went out and killed a sea otter with his bare hands, skinned it with his teeth, and crafted a fine pelt for his father before he concocted the first modern rendition of the Blood Drenched Brew. Using this as his means of survival, just as his ancestors did, he fired up the brewery making replicas of the famous Dos tsagf brew so he could share it with the world. Always on the lookout for the ultimate new flavour, Billy Bob recruited a group of talented factory workers and instructed them to share his discoveries and tales with the world so that the legends would never be lost ever again... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Billy+Bob%27s+Blood+Drenched+Brew">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.