Billy Boyd, born 28th of August,1968 in Glasgow, is a Scottish actor. He is most widely known for playing Peregrin Took in the film adaptations of The Lord of the Rings trilogy between 2001 to 2003, as well as Barrett Bonden in Peter Weir's film Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World in 2003, which also starred Paul Bettany and Russell Crowe.

He and his sister Margaret were raised by their grandmother after their parents died. In 1984, aged 16, he appeared in local musical company Theatre Guild, Glasgow's production of Hans Anderson.

He worked as a book-binder for 6 years before pursuing an acting career. One of the books he bound was The Lord of the Rings. After book-binding, he attended the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama, where he earned a diploma in Dramatic Arts. 

He has been in several plays, including San Diego and The Ballad Of Crazy Paola. He has also had a guest appearance in the Scottish TV sitcom Still Game, as well as in two episodes of long-running Scottish detective TV drama Taggart. Recently, he is starred in a BBC TV comedy Empty. He is currently starring as Richard MacDuff in BBC Radio 4's adaptation of Douglas Adams' Dirk Gently’s Holistic Agency series.

As well as being an actor, he can sing, and play the guitar, bass, and drums. He also wrote and sang The Steward of Gondor (also known as The Edge of Night) in Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King. He is currently the lead singer and co-songwriter in his band, Beecake (previously known as The Angels' Share). As of July 2008, the band has released an LP titled Just B and are currently recording their first album. 

He remains close with his Rings' co-stars, most especially with Dominic Monaghan, whom he has written a script together.

He currently owns a house in Lesmahagow with his girlfriend, Alison McKinnon. On April 26, 2006, he and McKinnon welcomed their first child, son Jack William Boyd. On 2008, he revealed in an interview that he is engaged to McKinnon after proposing to her at the Ardanaiseig Hotel on Loch Awe, Scotland.

===

Billy Boyd is also a pseudonym for legendary guitarist Jerry Cole, best known for his chops in The Champs' Tequila, and throughout The Beach Boys's Pet Sounds. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Billy+Boyd">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.