Days … months, and years went on as BILOCATE, the Jordanian Doomdeath metal band rising from the mid-country city Fuhais, walked in its path of glory and we shall narrate the story of this epic.

The essence of BILOCATE comes from the determination of the two brothers Ramzi and Waseem with their lifetime friend Hani to start a metal band in which they would put their musical efforts, although many tries they did with many other musicians, but no real results.

It was summer 2003 when Waseem met Baha’, BILOCATE’s lead guitarist, also from Fuhais, this meeting was arranged with Essa Farah, a friend of both Waseem and Baha’,

So after holding a number of sessions, Baha’ joined the guys to make a real start for the band.

Starting with composing the trial instrumental track Waseem and Baha’ wanted to examine the power of their composing, yielding a very successful collaboration, at the time, Hani was in Macedonia, and Ramzi was busy with his college and work.

It was only a short while for Ramzi and Hani to join the experience and at that point the band started their now-called hit track, 2nd war in heaven.

This should be formally called the start of BILOCATE, the 4 friends continued working strictly on their own material, composing, recording … so after “2nd war in heaven” the band composed the semi instrumental “Days of Joy”, and then they started “A Deadly Path”, in the middle of this song Hani introduced a very talented guitarist to the band,

Rami Haikal, at that point it was summer 2004, it was amazing how Rami could join the band during a composing time and it was super how he went with the flow as if he was with the guys from the beginning, he was a perfect rhythm guitarist for BILOCATE, so the band continued working without allowing anything to hold them back, with the excellent lead and rhythm guitars lines, extremely powerful harsh vocals and lyrics from Ramzi and surly the extraordinary bass lines composed by Hani , all that combined with the efforts Waseem has made by taking care of keyboards , drums , and recording/editing of the band’s material.

As said before Rami joined the band in the middle of “A Deadly Path”, as they completed this song they started working on “The Tragedy Within” … mentioning that the musical idea of this song was introduced by Rami, making a good example of how Rami could fit in. Another spectacular thing worthy mentioning, the fact that most of the time Ramzi was working in UAE, but that didn’t change a thing about the band’s work.

Then after “The Tragedy Within”, Waseem and Baha’composed 2 relatively small tracks by themselves, “Passage” and “Shrouded” and these tracks were added to BILOCATE’s material after the band had agreed on them.

The last track the band worked on in their first album was “A Desire to Leave” the so-called “longest song made by an Arab metal band ever!”, it was composed in the beginning of winter 2005, so by completing this song BILOCATE was ready to release their first full length album “Dysphoria” containing the 7 songs mentioned above in addition to an intro for the album. The album release was celebrated on the local governmental radio station “Jordan FM” on October 27th in a 5 hours show hosted by the well known Dj Mike playing the whole album on air and interviewing the band members and taking calls from fans.

After the band had released Dysphoria, they released their first music video which they were already working on for the “2nd war in heaven” song in coordination with Immortal Video Productions. BILOCATE started promoting their material through online advertisements, and they needed to go live in order to get their performance recognized, but they couldn’t have actually done that without the help of their good friend Ibrahim Al Qaysi,

 who went live with them in a number of local concerts as session drummer like “The Burning” gig, and mentioning his efforts when he flew to Egypt with the band to perform live in the very first concert BILOCATE gets to appear in, outside Jordan,

Also joining the band’s efforts on shooting their 2nd video clip for the song “Days of Joy” which was produced with Jacknife Video Productions and that was namely the end of Ibrahim’s journey with BILOCATE which lasted for approximately a year.

At the beginnings of 2007 a new era has begun, with a new drummer joining the crew in the late 2006, Ahmad Kloob, very talented and could fit in easily as he was introduced to the BILOCATE spirit, all together walking the first steps of a new journey.

The 6 friends carried on preparing for their 2nd album, another round of composing, recording and putting their best efforts into the work.

"Sudden Death Syndrome" the title of BILOCATE's 2nd record, as the list includes 7 songs demonstrating the total flexibility and richness of musical ideas in addition to the magnificent and magical work provided by key people in the industry, names such as Jens Bogren the Swedish producer/sound engineer as he handled a cooperative production work with BILOCATE, also performing the excellence of sound engineering and mastering techniques, resulting in an absolutely outstanding finishing for the album.

Also not forgetting the support the band has received during the recording process from the English sound engineer Nash Planojevic as for providing his facilities in Dubai and not to mention his experience enabling Ramzi to give the desirable quality in recording vocals, and the Jordanian sound technician Mohannad Bursheh as for providing his facilities and experience forming a comfortable atmosphere for Hani to record bass guitars.

Other names on the list to salute for their work, Christophe Szpajdel, the English artist, titled as "The Lord of Logos" as he offered the band a new logo that couldn’t be more perfectly magnifying to the image of the band at their new era, adding to that, Dennis Sibeijn from Netherlands, finalizing all what is said above with his stunning artwork that emphasizes the band's mentality and specifically speaking the subject album's concepts and meanings making the record ready for distribution.

Coming to the step which will compensate the member's of BILOCATE for their none-vanishing commitment and hard work, Daxar Multimedia, the record label that the band has recently signed a contract with for distributing their album in the Middle East and GCC region, covering an area of 6 countries in which basically the band's new record will be available by the end of May 2008.

Always prepare yourself for BILOCATE’s creation … there's not much left now … watch out for the considered as breath-taking new album. .

 

www.bilocate.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bilocate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.