The Binary Finary journey began in a South England music shop, where Matt Laws and Stuart Matheson met in the summer of 1997.  Stuart was looking for some new music equipment to spend his student loan on, and Matt was behind the counter as a sales assistant. When Matt recommended a synth he owned, but wasn’t in stock in the store, he offered for Stuart to come round to visit his house to see it in action.

Because Stuart wasn’t 100% sure he wasn’t an axe murderer, he took along a body guard, but as soon as he heard the makings of a trance classic, axe murdering was forgotten, the body guard turned into a tea lady and plans were made to bring the sound of Binary Finary to the masses.

“1998” was the track that defined a generation for clubbers. Perfectly capturing the euphoria, energy and excitement of the scene of the time, “1998” went on to become a stalwart of every playlist, of DJ and non-dj alike.

Entering the UK National Charts at number 24, “1998” was the first piece of instrumental dance music to make it’s mark.

With remixes from the duo of Ferry Corsten & Tiesto, as Gouryella, Paul Van Dyk, Kaycee and Matt Darey the track continued to soar in the European charts over 1999 reaching number 11 in the UK National Charts.

With heavy influences from ‘Orbital’, ‘Eat Static’, ‘The Orb’ and ‘Platipus Records’ Binary Finary set about bringing the sonic soundcapes and passion of their music to a live audience, throughout the UK, Europe, America and the rest of the world.

From humble beginnings using borrowed equipment on stage, and gigging for drinks in Portsmouth, UK, they were involved in some of the biggest dance parties Europe had ever seen around the millennium.

Binary Finary split up in early 2000, with Matt and Stuart going their separate ways. It wasn’t until the start of 2004 that they got back in touch. Eager to take the experiences of the early days and their new knowledge and life experiences, they reformed Binary Finary with a new grounding of processes and technology.

This saw a shift in the writing process, with the development of software synthesisers and computer hardware, the duo sat about collecting and remaking some of the tracks that formed their creative bond. A freak computer crash, and a scramble for a backup hard disk saw a collection of tracks which had been lost for years, miraculously turn up. This hard disk turned out to have some of Matt and Stuart’s early creations. In 2005 ‘The Lost Tracks’ double album was released as a digital only album to critical acclaim and culminated in the duo playing to 15,000 party goers at the Sunrise Festival in Poland.

Fast forward to the present day not much has changed in their ethos to music. They still create music for the love of sonic expression, only the technology has altered, and been developed upon.

Geography plays a distinct part in their musical lives, as Matt moved to Ireland and Stuart to Sydney, Australia. They couldn’t get farther away, however the creative process hasn’t stopped, and Binary Finary are armed with an array of content to call upon and the internet to help in swapping working files.

Binary Finary LIVE is the new incarnation of the live performance side of Binary Finary.

Spearheaded by Stuart Matheson in Australia, and enlisting Sasha Vatoff as a live performer for many of the shows, Binary Finary LIVE are armed with a collection of new releases and remixes, generating a huge buzz and incredible crowd feedback with a brand new live show that kicked off at Etihad Stadium in Melbourne on New Year’s Eve.

As well as the Live set, Binary Finary are also crafting a more traditional DJ set, incorporating the latest digital technology, fusing Progressive & Tech, alongside Binary Finary mashups.

2011 is set to be another busy year for the boys. In addition to starting new radio shows around the world for Digitally Imported FM and After Hours FM, whilst also performing at global events. They are due to release new their new artist studio album featuring tracks “Isle of Lies” “Flight of Life” and “Deception”. New material, remixes and collaborations are afoot that will see Binary Finary arrive back at the forefront of the musical world.

This world class act pump out an ever-changing live set that incorporates some unique remakes of classics, such as “Rank1 – Airwave”, “Armin Van Buuren – Communication” and “Sasha – Xpander” interspersed with new and original Binary Finary tracks. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Binary+Finary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.