Bingo Players (Paul Bäumer & Maarten Hoogstraten) have been left gasping for air after a seriously hectic year with bookings in the Netherlands and abroad. Outgrowing local bingo halls to play with the big ballers of the game has been the result of their hard work and devotion. The Bingo Players appear to have been made for each other, the proof of which came in November 2009, when the DJ/producer duo topped the Beatport overall chart for a second time with their remake of the dance floor classic, “Devotion”, which stayed on no. 1 for two weeks and over a month in the top 10!

Back in 2008 the Bingo Players were still experiencing the extensive aftermath of their UHM & Tony Flexx – “Our House” remix. The cooperation with Chocolate Puma on the legendary label Strictly Rhythm/Defected, “Touch Me” was released and gained support all over. If that wasn’t enough, it also hit Beatport’s chart number one position! “Touch Me” then appeared on various compilations, like Defected In The House and Sensation White.

After that, Dutch house mogul, ErickE’s “Wanna Go Again”, was treated with the inner Bingo and this remix hit the Dance Tunes top position and was inserted in the CD machines of Noir, Sander van Doorn and Patric La Funk amongst others. In September 2008 “Get Up” hit the shelves following a huge buzz and support from Laidback Luke, A Trak, Crookers and made it onto the 2008 I LOVE TECHNO! compilation, mixed by Boys Noize. 

Their next release “Chop” was a massive club hit, reaching no. 2 on the Beatport charts and remained in the top 10 for weeks. After that, their remixes for Joachim Garraud (Are You Ready), Sir James (Special), Ron Caroll (Bump To Dis) and Kristine W (Feel What You Want) were also big tunes and huge Beatport favourites.

2009 saw a new collaboration with Chocolate Puma on a track called “Disco Electrique”, which shot to no. 2 in the Beatport Chart. Internationally revered as ‘hot from Holland’ the Bingo’s year was full of incredible bookings in clubs worldwide along with several appearances at big international festivals such as Creamfields in the UK.

It’s no surprise then that nowadays every DJ supports the Bingo sound. Think of names like David Guetta, Axwell, Fedde Le Grand, Martin Solveig, Laidback Luke, Roger Sanchez, Sander Van Doorn, Sebastian Ingrosso and many more. The Bingo Players are the living proof things can take a sudden turn for the better! So what’s next you might wonder? Enough... their next release “No. 1 Disco” will be out soon as well as new remixes for Fedde Le Grand, Mastiksoul and Martin Solveig. With focus on dominating the world of bingo in 2010, hold on to your bingo cards; it’s game time!



Triest nieuws voor de fans van Bingo Players. Paul Bäumer van het dj-duo is overleden aan de gevolgen van kanker.

Maarten Hoogstraaten, de andere dj van de Bingo Players maakte het nieuws bekend op hun Facebookpagina. "Ik ben erg bedroefd om jullie te vertellen dat Paul afgelopen nacht is overleden aan de gevolgen van kanker. Hij heeft tot het laatste moment gevochten."

Hij vervolgt: "We willen jullie bedanken voor jullie support de afgelopen maanden. Paul, we zullen je missen."  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bingo+Players">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.