Birds in Row is a screamo band with crust elements formed in Laval, France in 2009. The band's earliest releases include 2009's Rise of the Phoenix and 2010's Cottbus, two EPs released through Vitriol Records. They signed to Deathwish Inc. in 2011 and released their debut album You, Me & the Violence in 2012. In 2015, they released a third EP entitled Personal War and a split with We Are in the Country. In 2018 they released their second full-length entitled We Already Lost The World followed by a live session EP at Audiotree comprised of live renditions of WALTW songs. In 2022, they were the first non-Cult of Luna-related artist to be signed to their independent label Red Creek and are set to release their third full-length entitled Gris Klein in late 2022.

Although their style displays crust influences, they are not a neocrust band. It is closer to traditional screamo but with dashes of crust, which would better classify them as an emocrust band, if that serves of any distinction. Their music is mostly driven by the emotional expressionism and urgency of screamo rather than d-beat galloping or the epic and melodic riffing of neocrust. However, it still manages to incorporate some aspects of crust's primal aggression. 

As a three-piece band comprised of a guitarist / vocalist, a bassist and a drummer, the faces of the members are intentionally cropped out of promotional photographs and music videos, and the individual members are usually only referred to by the single letters: B, D or T. Birds in Row consciously make this effort in order to appear as a single entity rather than three individuals. The band commented, "It's not about some individuals, but songs, ideas, points of view that our three lives have in common. So as we've been asked for promo pics for several reasons, we decided to crop them so all you can see is a band"

Two of the members formed Birds in Row one week after their previous band split up, and recorded their first song one week after that. The group chose the name because birds are able to fly around freely, however, "they very often decide to fly as a group or land on wires in a row. So, this for us represents how people could chose to be free, but always end up following their fellows to feel comfortable." They chose the name 'Birds in Row' over 'Birds in a Row' because it sounded better to the group. They also chose to sing in English because they, "wanted to be understood by most of the people."  Birds in Row had begun writing their debut album in late 2011. Deathwish Inc. showed interest in reissuing their Cottbus EP, but the band offered the album they had been working on the time instead. Birds in Row's signing was announced in November 2011, and they finished recording their debut album by January 2012. Also in January 2012, Vitriol reissued the group's early EPs as a compilation titled Collected.

Birds in Row toured the United States with Loma Prieta in March 2012 and with Touché Amoré, Defeater and Code Orange Kids in April 2013. A music video for the song "Pilori" was released in June 2012, and Birds in Row's debut album You, Me, & the Violence was released on September 4, 2012. Also in 2012, the band toured Europe with Converge and Rise and Fall in August, and the UK in December. Along with Glass Cloud and Rebuker, Birds in Row opened for The Chariot during their final tour in October / November 2013.

Website
Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Birds+in+Row">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.