There are ten artists with the name Bishop:

1)  A 3 piece rock band based out of Albany, NY comprised of three brothers.  They have been together since 1999 and have released three albums, the latest being "Steel Gods."  This band holds the trademark for the name BISHOP as it pertains to musical performances and recordings.  

2) A rap artist by the same name who released an album "U Know U Ghetto" in 2001.

3) a Japanese rock band that started in 2002. They have two demos, one single, and one mini album and were also on one omnibus album before. They are currently inactive and/or have disbanded.

4) A South Dakota band with a classic rock sound, making use of solos at guitar, bass, and drums. They have one released album, "All Knight" and are working on a follow up. 

5) A Norwegian Hip-Hop producer, known especially for his work with the Sandnes based hip-hop crew Skolekorps under the name Bikkjå, and his work with the Norwegian rapper Ivy League.

6) Bishop a Metal band from Nashville, TN. Now called Our Final Resting Place.

7) A Chicago rap artist with an upcoming release "The Miracle on 65th Street"  Currently promoting the first single from that album, "Big Fat Juicy Booty"

8) A straight edge hardcore band from Florida. Also known as XBISHOPX.

9) An ambient/indie band from Chicago that focuses on melodic vocals backed up by aggressive, groovy drums, muscular bass lines and reverb drenched guitars. https://bishop.bandcamp.com/

10) Rapper signed to Brainsick Muzik. Also knows as Young Bop

11) A Japanese visual kei band formed in 1998, the group went on to release a few demos throughout 1999 and 2000, and later released a few singles from 2000 through 2001 as well. By the summer of 2001, Bishop managed to develop a small cult following for their industrial-fused sound, and the group ended up touring a bit more throughout 2001, although they eventually ended up abruptly disbanding in 2002. The only member of Bishop who remained active in the visual scene was bassist Junzo, who went on to join the cult visual group Feathers-Blue, although he later left Feathers-Blue in 2004. He then joined the visual group Run Jewelry, which was active for less than a year. Junzo then joined the indies group Dust Co., Ltd, which also mysteriously disintegrated in 2008. After Dust Co., Ltd's short run, Junzo then retired from the visual scene. In 2015, Dust Co., Ltd suddenly reunited, and the group toured throughout the majority of the year and some of 2016, before suddenly disappearing once more. It can be presumed that Dust Co., Ltd have since disbanded a second time, and Junzo then returned to his retirement. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bishop">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.