Guitar - Adam Henry
Guitar - Mike Regan
Drums - Toby Byers
Bass - Mike Spooner
Vocals - Gary Harkin



The story is Gary first met Mike in 2003 or 2004 in the toilets of a local club called Satan's Hollow, Manchester. Gary was hollering away to a Nirvana tune and mike was desperate for a singer so numbers were swapped. Gary went along to try out for the band and after a rather terrifying band practice involving Stella and anti-psychotic pills he was asked to join the band.

Back then they went by the name Orchid but soon dropped it when they learned of the US band with the same name, they also felt as our sound progressed that the name didn't feel right.

They've since parted ways with Loz Brindley, the drummer at the time, and Martin Elthorpe, the original bassist. they found our current drummer Toby Byers fairly soon after Loz departed and more recently they've been joined by new bassist Arun Kamath.

After some time trying to decide on a band name that would suit their rapidly developing sound they thought up the name Bisonhammer. They initially thought the name was a little over the top, even for them, but people seemed to like it and it grew on them.

They recorded a 4 track demo in 2005 under the name Orchid. In 2006 they recorded a 4 track E.P under the name Bisonhammer with Rick Powell at Amplisound studios in Stockport. With their new 3 track E.P, recorded with Rory from I-Remain at SSR this year they feel they've made a huge step in defining what they believe to be the true sound of the band.

They've never really consciously tried to create a particular sound, instead they just blast out whatever feels good and let the songs take their own shape. They feel that their sound is particular to Bisonhammer, but to provide some frame of reference I'd say that elements of Lamb of God, Mastodon, Clutch and Cancer Bats can be heard in there.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bisonhammer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.