1) Black Metal band from Thessaloniki, Greece. 100% D.I.Y. and anti-NSBM, featuring members of some local hardcore/crust bands (Dyspnea and Go Filth Go).

2) Black Metal band from Cleveland, OH

Black Trinity was formed from the remnants of Cleveland, Ohio’s Black/Death Metal band Noktuary. Black Trinity then consisted of Surt on drums and vocals, and Hymir on guitars and bass. Their focus at that time was to continue the USBM genre by virtue of keeping that old school Black Metal style and feel. Several demo tapes were recorded but not officially released. After a few setbacks, as well as different projects which took a few years, both Hymir and Surt decided it was time to go full time with Black Trinity. 
In July of 2001, Shadowthorn joined on guitars along with Shroud on bass. Former Noktuary vocalist Hellfrost joined to fulfill vocals. Unfortuately, Shroud left the band, but was quickly replaced by Arawn, thus giving the band a full lineup. In 2002 the band recorded a self-titled three song demo at Underground Studios in Cleveland, Ohio. Later that same year they returned to that same studio to record the follow up titled, “Devil Worship.” The success of the first demo sparked new creativity thus the return to Underground Studios. “Devil Worship,” landed Black Trinity a deal for their debut with Satanic Perversion Records out of New York, however it was never officially released due to the label’s inability to release said album in the alotted timeframe, and thus voiding the contract. Soon after the label shut down giving back the rights of the material to Black Trinity. 

Hellfrost departed Black Trinity after a year to persue other musical endeavors. Khaine was soon added to the lineup, however Shadowthorn was released from guitars. Black Trinity continued as a four-piece and during that time they went back to Underground Studios. In 2003 they recorded their third demo entitled, “Of Darkness Divine.” This was met with a great response from the metal community and it left fans wanting more. In response, the band entered Track Six Studios in Cleveland late 2003, to record their debut album, “Demonic Pleasures.” Ten devastating tracks that not only stood out on their own, but also complimented the Black Metal genre. With the Satanic Perversion deal voided, Surt created an independent label named, “Apocalyptic Records,” in order to release this tremendous debut. The recording process was completed quickly, and not long afterwards former Noktuary bassist, Ibex, joined on second guitars, thus giving Black Trinity a full lineup once more. After much waiting the CD was released in January of 2006. The band received high acolades as well as great reviews from established print publications such as Metal Maniacs and Terrorizer. As well numerous online sources gave praise and great reviews of the album. 

Not long before the release of the debut album, Khaine departs Black Trinity to continue his education. He is replaced by Hatred. Sadly, not long after Khaine’s depature Arawn parts the band as well. Fortunately this is filled quickly – in fact within a week – by Mordhel a longtime friend of the band. After about six months of shows, Hatred leaves the band due to family obligations. May marked the beginning of a long courtship (if you will) with then session vocalist Porphyry Ov Tyre. 

In early 2007 Porphyry signed on as full time vocalist to fully complete the line-up. 

In June of 2007 the band once again entered Track Six Studios to record. This time to make a second album. Soon after, “Bleed For Him,” is recorded. This next album shows the band maturing their sound, adding a melodic flair to their already devastating sound. 

Black Trinity has played shows under headliners such as, Overkill, Exodus, Black Dhalia Murder, Moonspell, Nile, Dark Funeral, and Chthonic. They have been a part of the James Murphy benefit show, in addition to their own countless headlining shows. To add they have also played many metal festivals such as, Dwell In Darkness II, Bloodfest II, The Ohio Death Fest (twice), Michigan Death Fest and the International Death Fest. As well the band have been consistently played on many underground radio stations, (local college and abroad). They were also nominated for “Best Metal Act,” in Cleveland, Ohio by numerous fans and the Scene Magazine. 

With a solidified lineup, and success with previous recordings, Black Trinity continues to be a driving force in the US Black Metal genre and are always progressing musically and professionally. Yet still they have not forgotten their roots. Receiving praise and a rapidly growing fanbase, there is a demand for more material, including the new album. Black Trinity has no intentions of slowing down, always looking forward and playing the most extreme type of music. The band is looking to expand their vision evermore and get their music to the world without compromising what Black Metal is all about. 


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Trinity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.