There are 2 bands by this name.
 
1. Black Arrow is a rock trio formed as a 4-piece band in Southampton, England in 2007. Taking folk, blues, metal and indie influences, the band have created a modern sound that defies conventional genre restrictions. After a year or so they became the trio that are known today: Rich Stock on lead guitar/vocals, Rob Scott on bass guitar and rhythm guitar and Jon Whitmore on drums.

They made their live debut in June 2009 in Okehampton, Devon, where they can be found every year.
Their debut album Tales Of Diamond Eyes was released in 2010 and has been well-received.

After sporadic concert appearances, Black Arrow are gigging in earnest, playing London, Southampton and Okehampton in the first half of 2012.

2.Black Arrow is a Melbourne, Australia  based heavy rock band formed in 2014
Current Members:
Brodie - Lead Vocals
Ryan - Guitar, Vocals
Daniel - Bass, Vocals
Cory - Percussion.

Formed  in 2014 by  Daniel, Ryan and Cory. They started out writing instrumental compositions whilst looking for a lead vocalist. Late 2014 Brodie joined the line up and Black Arrow was born. With a varied range of influences and backgrounds they got to work writing originals. The first of these being Broken and Burning. After working together for 6 months and writing songs the band was ready to be heard.

Their first gig was with Gunn Music productions artist showdown heat 1 at The Laundry Bar in Fitzroy. Making it through heat 1, Black Arrow then continued on to write more songs and play in the semi finals of the Gunn Music productions artist showdown. Making it through the Semi finals they were ready to take on the finals and did so. Black Arrow emerged the winner of the Gunn Music production artist showdown. Still writing and playing around Melbourne,

Black Arrow entered the recording studio in July 2016 for the first time to record tyheir debut EP. 6 tracks were selected from their catalogue of songs and production began.

September 2016 Black Arrow released 2 of the songs from the upcoming EP for download or streaming. Coming Undone and Parox'ism Paper were the two songs released as a preview of what is too come.

November 2016 see Black Arrow relesing their debut EP on 19 November at The Reverence Hotel in Footscray, Melbourne. Supported by local bands Elemada, Cash and Sunslave.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Arrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.