Download our entire discography FREE here... http://blackthesky.bandcamp.com/

www.facebook.com/blacktheskypeoria

www.myspace.com/blackthesky

Black the Sky are a Death Metal/Metalcore band from Illinois. 

The members came from a couple other deceased local bands.  The guitarist was formally in Of Parting Words, and the drummer was in Lividity.

Black the Sky, was officially formed in 2004 as a project for Jeff "Dirtee" Brooks (ex-Of Parting Words) and James Whitehurst (ex-Lividity). Still seeking out a vocalist and bassist Black the Sky was more of an idea. Brett Winters sortly stepped into the picture after his departure with Of Parting Words. One bright sunny cold winter day, a man approached Dirtee and James with an offer of trying out for his band, they agreed to come and "check it out". There they met the bodacious and very sexy bassist Jakob Heflin. James and Dirtee listened to this band practice, and decided not to do it. Shortly after that night Dirtee got in contact with Jake asking him to meet him (Dirtee), James, and Brett at a local Arby's. There they talked about a new future and peace on earth, many side tracked conversations later they began got to talking about the band. They had a few practices at Dirtees house, writing two epic songs entitled "Shave Your Face With A Rusty Machete" and "Where Dead Men Lost Their Bones". Following these epic songs came more songs and shows. Many shows flocked towards Black the Sky like a hobo to a ham sandwich. After many months of shows they started recording their album entitled "Simplistic Mechanics of Deformable Bodies". When production of the album began, leading frontman Brett Winters decided to leave the band, which left Black the Sky with post dramatic stress syndrome. Black the Sky quickly retracted to Jake's best friend, the astonishing 15 year old (at the time) Dustin Sumner (ex-Plague of Echoes) as new leading frontman. Shortly after the transition of a new vocalist and completing the album, the all-comsuming power of Epitomite Productions latched on to the gut wrenching sound that is Black the Sky. Now Black the Sky can be found still rockin' and still rollin' across the country side, spreading the message of brutality, and not having sexual intercourse with "fat bitches". Drop us a line.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+the+Sky">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.