There are more than one artist that use the name "Black Ice": 

1. Heavy Metal act from California, US, which released just one 12" record in '86 titled "Hot-n-Heavy"

2. No Wave / experimental / gothic band.

3. A gangsta hip-hop group formed by Iced-T and Black Silver, 

4. A Hungarian rapper.

5. A soul and funk unit from the US 

6. A jug band from Kentucky, circa 1920

7. A hardcore band from Iowa who released a demo in 2011 and a 7" EP "Live & Suffer" in 2013. 

2) No Wave / experimental / gothic
Black Ice (straight outta Oakland, California) was formed in 1999 by members of the legendary Phantom Limbs, Stevenson Sedgwick and Skot Brown. Additionally, Sedgwick has played in Factory Of Angst, Bloody Melinda et al; while Brown has been a member of Anal Kitties, Oliver Klossoff And The Applicators, and Holy Revolver Society. In 2001 Miss Kel (of Red Voice Choir, Sister Mary Shoelace and Noise Collage) joined the band with lead vocals.
Black Ice began by recording a four song demo in March 2002. Later that year, Kevin Brown (Red Voice Choir, Sister Mary Shoelace) and Melanie X (Unicorn Stickers and Dalton)  joined the group, respectively playing guitar/drums and keyboards. In 2005 they released Terrible Birds on Hungry Eye Records and 2007 released Myopia with Hungry Eye Records. A European Tour followed. "Block Ice EP" was released in 2009 on Mungaso Productions label. 2010 saw their 3rd full-length, Before the First Light released to critical acclaim on Hungry Eye Records.

3) Gangsta Hip-Hop group
Black Ice is a group formed by TV cop / rap legend / heavy metaler Iced-T and L.A-underground sensation Black 'Hi Ho' Silver.  BIONIK produced the beats for the first album, Urban Legends.  Ice-T and Black Silver recorded previously as part of a group called the Analog Brothers, which released one album in 2000.

4) Hungarian Rapper
Black Ice or Fekete Jég is a hungarian rapper active in the Hungarian underground Hip-Hop scene.

5) Funk and Soul (band)
A funk and soul unit from US which recorded two albums, but never sustained much commercial success or had any lasting aesthetic impact. Still, they brought the funk with a fury!

6) Jug Band
A down-home Kentucky jug band, most famous for "My baby's hat is dandy, but her horse is gonna lose the derby"

?) Rapper/Poet
Black Ice is a Rapper and Spoken Word Poet that became known for his performances at the Deaf Poetry Jams. He released his first album in 2006. It is called "The Deaf Of Willie Lynch". Its one of the rare Hip-hop albums of '06 that kill. The lyrics and the beats on that album are groundbreaking and not to compare with the current state of the art in today's  bolo-centric Hip Hop. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Ice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.