There are multiple artists with this name.

1) The first is an alternative hip hop duo from Queens, New York, consisting of Andres Dres Titus and William Mista Lawnge McLean. They were a part of the Native Tongues Posse, which included Jungle Brothers, A Tribe Called Quest and De La Soul. They debuted in 1991 with the hit song "Flavor of the Month" and later released their first album, A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing, which gained them praise and recognition in the hip-hop community for its unique rhythms and intelligent lyrics.

A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing charted three times on the Billboard Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart in 1992 with "The Choice Is Yours" (#9), and "Strobelite Honey" (#1). Black Sheep were also featured on Vanessa Williams' album, Work To Do (#8).

Black Sheep was also one of the first groups to parody gangsta rap (still in its infancy when A Wolf In Sheep's Clothing was released) in the hilariously over the top "U Mean I'm Not." It describes in cringing detail a dream one of the members had about shooting his sister for staying in the bathroom too long, and his mother for breaking his egg yolk while cooking breakfast. When he is roused from his sleep, he tells his friends in a bewildered, almost frightened voice, "I dreamed that I was... hard."

The group's second album, Non-Fiction, was seen as not living up to the group's well-established talents. Due to virtually no promotion and a generally poor reception, the album managed only lackluster sales. Titus and McLean would separate soon afterwards to attend to various independent projects. In 2000, they reunited to record a track for the movie Once in the Life. Dres is currently planning to release a new mixtape titled 8WM under the name Black Sheep, scheduled for release in the summer of 2006. Mr. Lawnge, now known as Mr. Long, has distanced himself from this new release.

Dres was featured on the second Handsome Boy Modeling School album, White People, on the track "First...and Then".


2) The second band who go by the name Black Sheep. They are a Hardcore Punk/Ska band from Mouscron, Hainaut, Belgium. Their influences include Leftover Crack, Choking Victim, Capdown, Comeback Kid, No Cash and The Filaments.
The band are comprised of:
VANKOU : Vocals - Guitar
LOUL : Drums - Vocals
NOAR : Guitar - Vocals
VAYES : Bass - Vocals
Check them out at:
http://www.myspace.com/bxsbelgium
http://www.bxsmusic.be/


3) The third band named Black Sheep is a Classical Rock three piece band based in York, U.K. Who's most interesting feature is that their drummer is also their vocalist. Although a musicially brilliant band they have yet to break out of their genre and play within set guidelines. They can be found on last.fm under the name Black Sheep Experience


4) The forth band is a Heavy Metal rock band from Hollywood, Ca., formed in 1981.  Black Sheep fronted by Willie Basse  is famous for having more than a few members that would go onto greater fame in other bands including Paul Gilbert, Slash, Randy Castillo  and James Kottak  They sold the name to the rap group in the 1990's, but the rappers never fulfilled their contractual agreement. Therefore the rock band continues forward with current media and releases. Their first album titled " Trouble in the Streets" released in 1985 on Enigma Records #72071. Second release EP, " Sacrifice" is currently available. Black Sheep is known for their precision & technical prowess. They are mainstays on the world famous Sunset Strip.

Album page:
http://thesunsetstriponline.com 
http://williebasse.com
http://blkshp.com

5) The fifth band in an underground Black Metal/Noise band that has formed in 2002 and has a demo and a split album out.


6) The sixth band is a Celtic Rock music group based in the South of England. Their first (and only at time of writing) album is called Wrecking Reels. See their website: http://www.blacksheepband.co.uk/


7)The seventh band is a Hard Rock,Classic Rock From Thessaloniki - Greece/Hellas.
They participated in Schoolwave 2008 and have at least one song, named "Enjoy The Ride"

8) An experimental rock band from the United Kingdom. Julian Cope's latest ensemble, featuring the likes of Acoustioka and Christophe F. There sole release so far is Kiss My Sweet Apocalypse, available in (very) different versions on CD and vinyl.

9) A hard rock band from the United States.

10) A rock band from Germany.

11) A Jazz group from Japan. Dairo Suga(スガダイロー),Ryuichi Yoshida(吉田隆一) and Atsushi Goto(後藤篤). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Sheep">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.