The full name "Black Devil Disco Club" is used for Bernard Fevre's releases after 2004. The first record "Black Devil Disco Club" was originally released on "Out Records" in 1978 as Black Devil. Originally released in 1978, Black Devil's "Disco Club" is an extremely rare disco masterpiece, an epic journey into the deepest electronic disco.
The record is credited to Joachim Sherylee and Junior Claristidge, pseudonyms of two french library writers Bernard Fevre and Jacky Giordano. It was made manually in a recording studio in the suburbs of Paris using synths and occasional tape loops and a drummer. No midi or computers.
According to an interview given by Bernard Fevre in January 2007, Jacky Giordano only financed the recording sessions. His being credited as co-composer was just a deal for recouping his financial investment.

After re-releases in 2004 under Aphex Twin's record label "Rephlex", the record got renewed attention (the original record getting rare). In 2006 another Black Devil Disco Club was released, called "28 after", under Lo records. Facts behind it are very few: its surviving member Bernard Fevre operating under the name, and nobody knows if it was recorded recently or if it’s actual vintage. From the sounds of things, maybe it’s a bit of both: some of the bongo tracks seem like they’ve been lifted off the originals, while synth patches sound warmer and recorded on a computer. 

Bernard Fevre before Black Devil Disco Club is known for two rare tracks, the electronic masterpiece "The Strange World of Bernard Fevre" and the even rarer "Earthmessage" (as sampled by The Chemical Brothers on "Got Glint?" from the Surrender album).

He has released at last 3 albums of electronic library music in the 70s.

ALBUMS SINCE 2006
2006 - ''28 After''
2007 - ''Black Devil in Dub'' (remixes of songs from 28 After)
2008 - ''Eight Oh Eight''
2009 - ''Black Devil Disco Club Presents: The Strange New World of Bernard Fevre''
2011 - ''Circus'' (features Nancy Sinatra, Afrika Bambaataa, Faris Badwan the Horrors, YACHT, Jon Spencer (Blues Explosion), Aja Emma (Cosmetics), CocknBullKid, Nancy Fortune, and Nicolas Ker (Poni Hoax).)
2013 - ''Black Moon White Sun''
2020 - ''Lucifer is a Flower'' <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Devil+Disco+Club">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.