The Band was founded under the name of FINAL PUNCH in fall 2002 by Jörg Jüdes, Jörg Kosinski and André Jüdes. In winter 2002 Markus Kelb (Bass) joined the band. About a year later, in December of 2003, Frank "Mühle" Mühlenberg became part of the band. His brutal vocal sound contributed an important part to the sound of this band. As the local popularity of the band grew bigger, the band played several great shows with famous and appreciated bands like Maroon, Do or Die, Maintain, No Turning Back and Anticops. In the early year of 2005 Markus decided to leave the band due to professional duties, which resulted into less time for the band. The former Bassplayer of Shortcut, "Kikki", decided to become a member of the band just in the time after Marcus left. Unfortunately he had to leave in summer 2005 as well, because he was forced to concentrate on his family and job. By changing the sound of the band from oldschool to more metal influenced music, it became obvious that an additional guitar player was required. So the former "Down The Hatch" member Sebastian Cassuhn joined the band in February 2005. Due to several line-up changes, the band decided to change their name to something more fitting to their musical style. And so the name and the band BLACKEST DAWN was born. In autumn 2005, Alex Winter, the former bassplayer of "Para Noir" completed the band finally. BLACKEST DAWN successfully combines different music styles to an ultimate force of heavy music, which knows to make a difference in the nowadays often mentioned term of music "Metalcore". They describe their music as an interesting mix of metal influenced melodies, neck breaking moshriffs and aggressive attacking hardcore parts. The music truly comes from the heart of every member of the band, because they put all their effort into their music. The will and the energy to make a great performance can be seen at every gig of BLACKEST DAWN.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blackest+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.