There are several bands known as Black Pearl:

1.) The first Black Pearl was from the West Coast. The lead singer was  wild showman Bernie "B.B." Fieldings. Though the members of the group were from the Boston area and the band was formed in Boston they left immediately to play in Aspen, Colorado where they were a house band for several months. They moved to San Francisco in 1967. The formation of Black Pearl by Oak OConnor and Geoff Morris was what split up of the Barbarians for whom some of the group had previously played. The group released an album and a single in 1969 and a second album in 1970. They finaly returned to Boston while on tour to play at The Arc in 1969. 

When Moulty, The Barbarians drummer decided he did not want to drive all  the way to Aspen Colorado for a 2 week gig, drummer Oak OConnor stepped in and  the remaining members (Morris, Causi and Benson) started prepping for the gig in Aspen. With the addition of fellow Tom Mulcahy and newly minted lead singer B.B. Fieldings (Champy) they formed Black Pearl in 1967. They rose quickly to a sold out album and number 100 with a bullet in Billboard.

The bands three guitar line-up created one of the first heavy psych groups, with strong R&B roots. Their first album, produced by Lee Kiefer and Richard Moore, contained nine short tracks, with titles like Crazy Chicken, White Devil and Mr. Soul Satisfaction. It's cover was designed by Eve Babitz. Lester Bangs reviewed their albums in Rolling Stone Magazine and in the Rolling Stone History of Rock and Roll he called them one of the first Heavy Metal bands although it was more R&B on LSD. 

Heavy drums and a good dose of soul -- both of which make Black Pearl stand out a bit from many of their late 60s contemporaries! There's a definite bluesy undercurrent to the group's music, but the riffs are also pretty hard and fast too -- almost a bit funky at times, and delivered with a starker sort of groove than the usual blues rock combo. The musicianship is super tight throughout -- really at a superstar level, but without sounding slick or commercial -- and the album alone is worth it for the sharp drums and guitar leads, but also sports some pretty great vocals too -- with almost a garagey soul sort of feel.

2.) The Korean R&B pop group 블랙펄, known for incorporating traditional Korean instruments into their music, especialy in their song 좋은걸 어떡해.

3.)  Ralph Fritsch and Roger P. Shah (Sunlounger) are the two trance producers who make up Black Pearl. "Bounty Island" was released as a 12" on Armin van Buuren's A State of Trance label in Dec 2006. It has also featured on Armin's mix CD "A State Of Trance Year Mix 2006"
"Coral Sea" was their second hit in March 2008

4.)  Everything started in the begining of 2008 when Rob Missile (lead guitar) and Arthur (drums) decided to form a band. The band's first name was "The Mothership". Rob Missile covered a few classic rock songs, while Arthur (badass mothafucka) didn't know how to play the drums. Whit Arthurs advise Rob decided to play Heavy Metal and Metalcore."The Mothership" changed it's name to Black Pearl with Electric Shock (second lead guitar) joining and Aleron (vocals and attempting bass) decided to join Black Pearl. Our band created two instrumental demo's. We are also playing "Lynyrd Skynyrd", "AC/DC", "KISS", "Bullet For My Valentine" and "Metallica" covers. Now we are trying to record some of our new songs.
myspace.com/blackperlas

5.)  Japanese Melodic Death/Thrash Metal band.

6.) A Czech metal band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Pearl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.