There are several artists named Black Coffee:

1) -   Durban-born (South Africa) Nkosinathi Maphumulo has been on the music scene for over a decade but only got his break a few years ago. Nkosinathi, otherwise known as Black Coffee, is popular for his smash hit remixes, most of which have dominated the airwaves in the past couple of years.

This maestro DJ and producer forged his musical background with his school choir and by studying the keyboard. He studied music in Durban because he felt that as a producer, he had to deepen his overall musical knowledge, develop his listening skills and advance his knowledge of music theory.
2003 saw Black Coffee starting to put his first project together. He revealed that his first album was created using very basic music-making software. “I don't know how to explain the production stages of my album because all I did was put down the basic ideas that I had. I didn't use any MIDI controllers or anything along those sophisticated lines. All I did was program the beats.”

After the successful 12” release of Black Coffee’s underground hit ‘Kwanele’, Kronologik brings you the self-titled debut album from South Africa’s prolific awarding winning DJ/producer.

Nathi ‘Black Coffee’ Maphumulo began his DJ career back in 1994 while still in High School. While studying Music in Natal Technikon, he formed ‘Shana’ – a band that has gone on to record and release four albums. In 2001 he was offered an opportunity to freelance for various clubs and promoters until securing a residency at Voodoo Lounge nightclub - the most happening club of it’s time. In 2003 he was chosen as one of two South African participants in the Red Bull Music Academy which jumpstarted him into the South African DJ scene. So much so that he was given the prime weekend dance slot on Umhlobo Wenene (Saturday’s 8-10) – a show featuring the most international DJ’s on South African radio. In 2006 Black Coffee triumphed in the category of Best Dance Album at the prestigious South African Music Awards and in 2007 he was picked to play at the Red Bull Music Academy lounge at the Sonar festival in Barcelona. Black Coffee has played alongside the cream of local and international DJ’s including Little Louie Vega, Alix Alvarez, Franck Roger, Charles Webster, DJ Spinna and Osunlade. 



Now ‘Black Coffee’ - the SAMA award winning album gets an international release through Kronologik Music. Twelve tracks of deep, soulful, afro house music featuring artists such as Mabe Thobejane, Busi Mhlongo, Shana and Mafikizolo.



The album also includes Black Coffee’s remixes of classic tracks like Hugh Masekela's 1972 masterpiece, 'Stimela', Thandiswa's 'Kwanele' and ‘S Khuzile’ by Brothers Of Peace - all in his inimitable Kwaito style. If you are wondering what Kwaito is - its South Africa’s home-grown music that is based on US house music infused with South African melodies and rhythms. 



Other well known Black Coffee tracks that have already done the rounds on the underground house circuit are featured on the album.  Tracks like ‘Happiness’, the big hit from the DJs At Work compilation album, ‘Love Life Generation – House Generation’ and the deeper than deep soulful classic ‘Music’ which was included on Keith Thompson’s ‘Worlds Collide Volume 1’. 

One listen to this album and you’ll see why it scooped the Best Dance Album award at the South African Music Awards.

2) -    Чёрный кофе (Cherniy Kofe/Black Coffee) a Russian heavy metal band, singing both in Russian and in English.

3) -   A Swedish band (http://www.blackcoffee.se/)

4) -   Black Coffee is a famous jazz group from Split , Croatia active since 1993.
In 1996. they released their first album titled simply "BLACK COFFEE". Album features such stars of Croatian music as Oliver Dragojevic and Gibonni, as well as guest appearance by famous Croatian actor Bozidar Alic. The composition "Night & Day" featuring Oliver, wins Croatian discography award "Porin" in the category of Best Jazz Performance.
Ever since has the group performed at numerous jazz and ethno festivals (Lagano, lagano; Hrvatski Jazz Sabor; Springtime Jazz Fever; Liburnia Jazz Festival; Alpe-Adria Jazz Festival; Baloon 2; Porin itd.), releasing 5 albums until this day. The most successful performances include concert at first SPLIT JAZZ FESTIVAL, which has also seen performances by names of world jazz scene such as McCoy Tyner, Michael Brecker and Trilok Gurtu, JAZZ FOR PEACE festival in Pescara alongside James Williams, Larry Willis and Bobby Watson, and numerous guest performances in neighbor countries.
http://www.blackcoffeejazz.com/index.php

5) -   Black Coffee is a jazz quintet formed in Sheffield.
http://www.blackcoffeemusic.co.uk/

6) -   Black Coffee is a Houstone Hardcore band. With one release (Self Titled) and one in the making. Check it out! 
http://blackcoffeetx.bandcamp.com/

7) -   Black Coffee is the original name of the Columbus, Ohio, USA based rockers South of Eden. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Coffee">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.