There are many band and artists called Blackbird. 

1. Blackbird is Blackbird is the moniker of a Dutch, independent female musician from Amsterdam, The Netherlands, whose real name is Merel Koman. Think raw vintage guitars, cinematic western strings, a powerful voice that recalls Nancy Sinatra and sultry summer night songs about being free, heartbreaks and longing for the unknown. She released a début EP One Of The Wild Ones in 2018 and a début long player, Blackbird in early 2020.

2. Blackbird is a dark jazz / psychedelic / triphop band hailing from Lier, Belgium.

3. Blackbird is a hard rock / metal band from Mexico City, Mexico, formed by Eddie Mars, Red McClane, Prince Lizzy and Saint Beto Lira. They have released a couple of EPs and one full lenght album. Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/Blackbird.mx/

4. Gershwin Hutchinson a.k.a. Blackbird is an MC from Los Angeles, CA, United States. With influences ranging from Siouxsie and the Banshees to Tom Waits and Journey, Blackbird is a member of the psychedelic hip-hop group Dark Leaf. He has released a number of  solo albums, including Fetterless (2003), Bird's Eye View (2005) and Three Bird (2009).

5. Blackbird is a band formed in 1988 by Tony and Chip Kinman, late of The Dils and Rand And File. They released 3 eponymous albums before changing genre and becoming the Kinman Brothers.

6. Blackbird is a band from Sydney, Australia, that released an EP named Trimmings in 2005.

7. Blackbird is a powerpop band from Los Angeles, CA, United States, consisting of Arlie, Shawn, Gabe and Michael. Instrumental power, hooks, melody, raw fun. 

8. Blackbird is a Canadian alternative rock band formed by Hyrum Davidson and Jim Fielding.

9. Blackbird is a metal / grunge band from Bolivia.

10. Blackbird is a folk rock band from Knickerbocker, NY, United States, with members Annie Sullivan, Nick Joswiack, Veronica Kohl, Stephanie Morro, Layne Montgomery and James Muschler.

11. Blackbird is a hardcore trio consisting of Trevor (drums, vocals) , Nathan (guitar, vocals) , Micah (guitar, vocals, underwater welding, effects) from Gaithersburg, MD, United States.

12. Blackbird is an eclectic New Zealand group, active since 2003. A summer project for original members Hamish Pinkham and Kyle Bell has now turned into more than just a hobby with regular performances at some of New Zealand's festival events and regular tours with international artists such as Bedouin Soundclash (Canada) and Bonjah (Australia). Each summer 'The Birds' (as they are often called) meet up with new tunes and ideas. Blackbird has slowly been establishing a solid loyal fanbase with a collection of soulful folk songs which encapture the influence of the East Coast and all that the lifestyle brings.

13. Blackbird is a Finnish folk-pop group. Website: www.blackbirdmusic.net

14. BlackBird is a hard rock / heavy metal band from Budapest, Hungary. Website: www.blackbirdmusic.hu

15. Blackbird are Juan Carlos Miranda, Néstor Mut, Joan Rius and Xavier Ollé, four Catalans from Viladecans, Spain, who move between indie and power pop.  They have been playing venues for almost a decade with bands like Top Models, Tachenko and Fist, among others.  With a couple of demos being handed around, the Catalans have managed to purify a nervous, sharp sound which at times sounds like Dinosaur Jr and at others like Jane’s Addiction.

16. Blackbird are Ivonne Fechner and Bodo Kommnick from Berlin, Germany. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blackbird">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.