Blackshine was formed in August 1988 under the name of Hetsheads by four schoolmates living in Stockholm. Back then their ambition was to play Death Metal and they soon became a relatively well-known band in the Death Metal underground. Having the ambition of creating themselves an own identity and as always unwilling to limit themselves musically by labels the bands material began to take new forms. It became obvious that the band no longer played Death Metal. To avoid disappointing any of the old Hetsheads fans the band decided to change their moniker to Blackshine.

New name, new style but still the same determination and the same hardworking, non-compromising members; Anders Strokirk (Guitar and Vocals), Joakim Stabel (Guitar), Fredrik Holmberg (Bass) and Anders Freimanis (Drums). The band kept on writing and recording new material and finally all the hard work paid off. They signed a record deal with G.U.N. Records and recorded the debut "Our Pain Is Your Pleasure". which was released in September 1997. The record was followed up by a successful European tour as support act to U.D.O. and a Scandinavian tour supporting Bruce Dickinson.

The second album "Soulless & Proud" was recorded between Feb and Apr 2001 in Dog Pound Audio with producer Putzweck. But before it was released in January 2002 trough SPV, the band did a very well appreciated appearance at Wacken Open Air festival the summer of 2001 plus several live apperances in Benelux with Terra Firma and in Sweden together with Entombed. Afer the success of "Soulless & Proud" Blackshine went on the road again in October/November 2002, supporting Sentenced and Lacuna Coil in Europe. For the tour they found a new drummer in Stipen (ex Merciless, ex Dia Psalma/Strebers), who did an amazing job and finally became a permanent member of Blackshine.

After leaving SPV the band was eager to get a fresh start, Blackshine threw themselves into more and more experimental writing and has now recorded the most interesting and catchy album ever in the history of the band. The album is entitled "Lifeblood" and was recorded in 52ND Music Studio with new talented producer Tor Adolfsson, co-produced by Blackshine themselves. Unfortunatly Stipen had to leave the band after the recordings but Blackshine found a brillant replacement in Chris Barkensjö, who also is the drummer of the brutal Death Metal band Kaamos. After a short negotiation with the Hamburg based label Dockyard 1 a new partner is found and "Lifeblood" was ready to see the light of day on September 25th, 2006. It is the most bold album to come from Blackshine up to date and sets off the beginning of a new era for the band.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blackshine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.