There are multiple artists named Black Rose:

1) Black Rose is a NWOBHM band originally formed in 1980 in the North East of England when three members of Ice, Steve Bardsley (guitar), Marty Rajn (bass) and Mark Eason (drums) saw guitarist Kenny Nicholson greatly perform his guitar on Hendrix's "Wild Thing". They released two albums in the 1980s "Boys Will Be Boys" and "Walk It How You talk It". Recently reformed releasing a new album "Cure for Your Disease" in 2010.

2) Black Rose was an ethereal band from Italy who were active in the 1990s and released four  albums on the Contempo and Hyperium labels.

3) Black Rose is an eurodance project from Italy. It was produced by Theo Spagna and Davide Marsilio. This project released the singles "Melody" and "If I Could Only Be With You".

4) Black Rose is a band from Fiji. They are one of the most popular group's in the South Pacific, specializing in traditional rhythms, and contemporary pacific beats, their sound is a mix of Polynesian music and pop rhythms. Their most popular album is "Voices of Nature" which includes the hit "Raude".

5) Black Rose is the name of King Diamond's pre-Mercyful Fate band.

6) Black Rose is a side-project of the three musicians of Skybirth who cover interesting songs by others in their own way.

7) Back Rose is a darkwave artist from Pennsylvania, USA. His first full-length album titled "Project: Entity" was released on January 1, 2008. The first 100 copies were set in gold hue. He is signed with Dead Religion Records. Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/blackroseofficalpage

8) Black Rose was a short-lived rock band formed by pop singer Cher with Lez Dudek in 1980. They released one album and disbanded after it flopped.

9) Black Rose is rock/metal band from Czech republic with a strong female vocal. Members include Eva (vocals), Saša (guitar), Vít (bass, vocals) and Honza (drums). Official site: http://www.blackrose.cz <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Rose">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.