There are several artists known as Black Goat:

(1)
BLACK GOAT (USA):
Originally formed in 1995 as Weakling with former guitarist John Gossard (Vomitorium, Weakling, Asunder), Black Goat was one of the San Francisco Bay Area's earliest Black Metal bands.  Black Goat is considered one of the best and darkest from San Francisco's ultra-cult Black Metal underground. This band features founding members of the bands Socially Incorrect (S.I.), and UBZUB, with members going on to play in bands such as Slough Feg, Abcess, Hadan, and Artificium Sanguis.  Strangely enough their release that is currently circulating around the world was never never meant to be released publicly, it was something only given to a select group of friends, one of those friends who ended up being one of the founders of Blackmetal.com released the copy on their record label.  The release never fully represented the band's power and musicianship, and the later sound of the band.  Though there was no formal announcement the band officially broke up in 2002 when their guitarist and drummer joined Hadan. 

The Black Goat line-up was:
Jim Mack (Nordaxe -related bands Slough Feg, Abcess) - Vocals, Bass
Robert Williams (Demonic Hell Butcher -related bands UBZUB, HADAN, Artificium Sanguis) - Guitar
Antoine Reuben-Diavola (Thorn Diavola) -related bands HADAN, Diavola, Slough Feg) - Drums
Stone Wolfgang (Shaxul -related bands Sangre Amado) - Guitar (album re-release shows only)

You can visit Black Goat online at:
http://www.myspace.com/blackgoat

---

(2)
BLACK GOAT (SPAIN):
Black Goat was formed in 2003. The band is a project with current members of THE LAST TWILIGHT, MERCILESS WARFARE , Xerión and Noitébrega; they play Old School Black/Thrash Metal with influences of Hellhammer, Venom, Bathory, Sodom or Motörhead. 
Discography:
-Blood Ritual  (EP, 2003. Final Embrace Records)
-Death Ritual  (Demo, 2010. Nigramors Productions / Final Embrace Recs.).
-Black Goat participated with "Satanic Lust" on the Goat Worshippers CD Compilation "First Plague", released by Goat Kult Productions in 2008.

http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=94962

- 

(3)

Black Goat (Russia):

Formed in 1999
from Serpukhov, Moscow region
Devilworship, Nuclear Apocalypse, Rituals 
Black/Death Metal

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Goat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.