Black Land started in 2001 in Italy under the monicker of Wizard and after 2005 the band took the present name.
The initial line-up included Willer Donadoni (guitar and voice), Nicola “Cynar” Rossi (drums) and Carlo Gagliardi (bass), all coming from other rock and metal bands and musical experiences.

As the guys relate on myspace, at the beginning the band started experimenting by fusing sounds of stoner and heavy psychedelic rock with the typical reflexive mysticism of doom, and it’s from those atmospheres and by the convergence of each own personal background that Black Land’s songs took their origin.

The first “confused” exhibitions took place mostly in squats, and other underground locations in Rome and in the rest of Italy (without producing any record or demo). After reaching a certain stylistic coherence, the band released the first, self-produced full-length album caller Evil of Mankind. But during that period all members devoted themselves also to their different projects (with bands such as Doomraiser, Grimness, etc.).

In March 2007 the bass player Carlo Gagliardi left the band and after an interval Daniele “Pinna” Amatori (already drummer in the band Doomraiser) entered as bassist. With the new formation the band launched a new style which included also some elements of space rock. A new addition in 2008 was guitar player Manuele “Catena” Frau, and the activity is pushed on.

In November 2009 Black Land released a vinyl-only split with the doom band Kill The Easter Rabbit from Naples out on Trips und Träume Records. The spit had a very encouraging success and made even Guru Fenriz note these musicians.

The main influences for Black Land are obvious and recognized in their tunes: especially Pentagram, Saint Vitus, Black Sabbath, Cathedral, Electric Wizard, but also Kyuss, Fu Manchu, Orange Goblin, Monster Magnet, Spiritual Beggars, Nebula, not to forget bands such as Motorhead and Type O'Negative and the heavy psych hard rock of the 70's.

Undoubtedly the band’s guys are also inspired by the gloomy atmospheres created by the Italian proto-doom and doom bands like Paul Chain, Abysmal Grief, etc. even if the atmospheres in Black Land’s tunes are less oppressive and softened by the passion for psychedelics and stoner rock.

Author: Mari @ The Sludge Swamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Land">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.