BlackSStorm was formed in early 1998 by Herr Urian and T4 Azylum. The project started in order to be a musical painting of the WW2. The delicate horror of Extermination Camps, the image of jewish corpses lying, the madness born in the spirit of men confronted to the brutality of WAR was the principal inspiration of some really raw and violent NSBM with no particular musical structure.
"Iuppiteradikation", the second recording of the band was a pagan oriented stuff, dedicated to Jupiter and paganism in national socialism.
All BSS stuff, from "Fuck Christ Noise - FMA" to "Nacht und Nebel - BlackSStorm against Africa" were released by the label "Habistes Productions" (RIP).

Interested in nazi occultism, BlackSStorm recorded a demo dedicated to the power of Universe called "1011000". This recording is the most NS, brutal, and punk oriented release from the band.
In 2002, the band changed of inspiration sources. Paganism and Spirituality became the center of their music, as it was for "Iuppiteradikation". "Alesia", split recordind with the french band Anwynn was dedicated to the greek gods. Lyrics were about rebellion, vengeance, spirituality, mental elevation and resurrection.
This two great and raw recordings were released buy the french label Inspire Hate Rex.
This label, united with the American SchwarzeMassenvernichtung Rex, released a limited dvd box containing old stuff now totally sold out. "Nacht und Nebel" and "Thermonuklear Whisper", the most insane and awful recordings from the band.
This dvd box included Poster, lyrics and a button reserved to the first 50 copies.

In 2004, they recorded a split with Pagan Assault : "Cruce Signati". An excellent tape, released by the french Drakkar Productions.
In this recording, BSS plays long tracks with eastern BM feeling. Raw and brutal with melodic guitar and insane voice. This one was dedicated to the Crusades as a spiritual quest. Honor, pride and vengeance are the main subjects of the lyrics.

In the near future, BSS will rerelease the "Alesia" demo on Drakkar Productions. Including new tracks that will present the future BSS demo. Those new tracks will be more brutal than what the band did in the past. With more RAC and Indus influences, probably the most agressive recording of the band, totally devoted to the memory of Adolf Hitler.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blacksstorm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.