There is more than one artist with the name Black Swan. 

1. Black Swan ("Drones for bleeding hearts"), is a New York-based cinematic orchestrated ambient drone musician, releasing the highly acclaimed In 8 Movements, the 2011 return LP, The Quiet Divide, along with two 2012 releases, Aeterna and Heaven. Black Swan's most recent albums are 2013's Redemption, followed by the 2014 release of Tone Poetry. 

2. Black Swan, a Melodic Black Metal band from Finland, started in 1995 as a two-man project of T. Palokangas and J. Tuomivaara. The band released "Demo '96" with T. Palokangas handling guitars and vocals and J. Tuomivaara handling keyboards and programming. After the demo they decided to expand to a five-man set, mainly because of the impossibilities of playing a real live set with just two men. A bit later Palokangas decided to concentrate mainly to the guitarwork and Antti Haapapuro joined the band as a vocalist. In the summer of 1997 Black Swan started gigging steadily and recorded their second demo "Autumn in Eden". In the fall they signed a record deal with Mastervox.

3. Black Swan is an alternative rock side project, formed by childhood friends: Betzefer vocalist & bassist Avital Tamir and ex-Got No Shame Matan "Nose" Ergas in mid-2009, while Betzefer was on hiatus. The band also comprised of Yan Kogan on guitar and Ido Levy on drums & percussion. The band performed extensively throughout 2009 and 2010, and in November 2010 entered the studio to record their debut full-length album. In May 2011 the band announced they are working on an EP instead of a full-length album and that they hope to release the EP by the end of the year.

4. Black Swan was a heavy metal band from Toulouse, France.
The band was created in 1988 by guitarist Bruno Séganti and released one full-length album "Mirror".

5. A Swiss artist that released an EP in 1990, Black Swan.

6. Black Swan consists of: Vocalist Robin McAuley (MSG), guitarist Reb Beach (Winger, Whitesnake), bassist Jeff Pilson (Foreigner, The End Machine, ex-Dokken), and drummer Matt Starr (Ace Frehley, Mr. Big).  They returned with a second album, “Generation Mind”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Swan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.