Black Tooth is currently the only Turkish music band which creates Southern Metal, Sludge Core, Groove based metal material. The band is from Ankara, Turkey and was formed in 2004. Black Tooth is influenced by metal bands such as Pantera , Down , Crowbar , Disarray , Hellyeah , Black Label Society , Rebel Meets Rebel , Brand New Sin , Alabama Thunderpussy , Exhorder as much as they are fans of Jacksonville, Florida classics like Lynyrd Skynyrd and Molly Hatchet.

Black Tooth was actually formed back in 1996 with Tuna and Deniz starting up an amateur Post-Thrash , Hardcore band named 'Bad Obsession'. The band didn't have any commercial purposes then, and was in a stage of a weekend practice band. As years passed on, Tuna and Deniz decided to move the band to a more serious status, like; start giving concerts. But with the other members' lack of attention the band came to an end.

After 2001, Tuna and Deniz reunited and started searching for new members for their new plan. After a long search they hooked up with Bilgehan as a Bass guitar player. In the summer of 2003, Tuna met with Utku near their summer resort while toasting drinks. After returning back to Ankara, they started practicing and the band got to a better stage with Deniz aiding the band with 2nd Vocals and Samples.

The band had various guitarist problems and after trying out about 12 guitar players, they coincidentally found Onur with the help of friends calling other people they knew. The band started seriously the day they tried out Onur in Downtown, Ankara. In fact, their first song "Clit Hanger" was written that day. Onur automatically brought the name "Black Tooth" with him to his new band. The name Black Tooth was given to directly resemble Pantera's official drink.

Black Tooth currently has 3 songs professionally recorded, and is getting ready to record an album with Raven Records, a Turkish Record Label. They are giving concerts in plenty of other cities as well as their home town. With the chance of getting to meet with Darrell "Dimebag" Abbott's girlfriend Rita Haney, Black Tooth will play this summer (2007) in Arlington, TX, the hometown of Southern, Groove metal for the tribute organization; Ride For Dime <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Tooth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.