BlackOut Corporation Story 

In the spring 2005 Wille and Rayburn answer to a web advertisement which asks about putting together a band. Wille and Rayburn have previously been jamming together every now and then, and are hopeful about the upcoming audition. The place for the audition is a rehearsal place of local band in Hämeenlinna and the audition song was decided to be Metallica’s “For Whom The Bell Tolls”. Chemistry during the audition seemed to work out quite good and everybody seemed to be happy with each others playing. For the next time we decided to learn a couple more songs and so the engines got started. 

The idea of the name for the band came from Tommi’s vivid imagination on one Sunday morning whilst hungover. Same origin has the slogan:”Don’t Be A Drunk Without BlackOut” 

In the early times of BlackOut Corporation musical orientation was more melodic metal and thrash punk. The main musical influence was Children Of Bodom at that time. Members in the band then consisted of lead vocalist, two lead guitarists, bass guitarist and drummer. However, at the beginning of the year 2007 another lead guitarist decided to leave the band because of differences in musical opinions. In June 2007 lead vocalist left the band also for the same reason. The Band got its final form and found its final musical orientation during spring and summer 2007. 

Currently the band consists of Rayburn (Vocals/Guitar), Tommi (Bass/Backing Vocals) and Wille (Drums/Backing Vocals). In autumn 2007 band got its reinforcement, Simo “The Manager” Oittinen, who’s know as a long time metal music endorser and as a good friend. 

Band’s official first gig with its final form was in Wild West Saloon located in Riihimäki October 2007 with Crazy Machine. It involved lots of fun and grooving around in the good spirit of heavy metal. Play list consisted of mostly of cover songs but also couple of own songs were played in that gig such as “Shit Happens” and “I Will Not Forgive”. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/BlackOut+Corporation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.