ne·far·i·ous : adj. Infamous by way of being extremely wicked.

The Nefarious Black Roses have been seen on The Comedy Network, CBC Television & Radio, Winnipeg Comedy Festival, Toronto International Sketch Comedy Festival, Canadian Comedy Awards, Buddies In Bad Times Theatre, countless Theatre & Comedy Fundraisers.

The Roses are a comedic folk duo that currently resides in Toronto, Canada. However, for the record, Chelsea is originally from Victoria, BC and Hayley is originally from London, ON. In the final production at Ryerson Theatre School, they were cast as bloody flagellants in Peter Barnes' classic, Red Noses. To cope with their three hours of waiting backstage for their big scene where they burned at the stake, the Roses sought comfort in their guitar, recorder, rainstick and souvenir conga drum from Club Amigo (from a four star resort in Cuba).

They combine comedic folk music with a satirical twist and have been performing together on the comedy circuit since January, 2006.

In the summer of 2006 they co-wrote/produced/performed the Fringe hit The Black Roses Foundation Tour (Montreal / Toronto / London) and were awarded Funniest Show and Producer's Pick (London Fringe). They were 2006 nominees for the prestigious Tim Sims Encouragement Fund Award (CTV/Comedy Network) which was filmed @ The MTV Masonic Temple and appeared as Cream of Comedy on The Comedy Network. Their songs have been heard on CBC, XM Satellite Radio Laugh Attack, Capn Daves Comedy Hour, CKLN 88.1.

Highlight gigs include opening a sold-out show for stand-up Glen That Canadian Guy Foster at the River Run Theatre (Guelph), Hysteria Festival 2005 and hosts in 2007, City of Freaks, Bitch Salad at Buddies in Bad Times Theatre, the Canadian Comedy Awards which will appear on The Comedy Network, the sold-out CBC Accent On Toronto #5 & #6 at the Danforth Music Hall, The Toronto Sketch Comedy Festival, and the Musical Mayhem Gala hosted by Sean Cullen at the CBC Winnipeg Comedy Festival and filmed for broadcast on CBC. They have also recently appeared together on Three Takes for Slice Television.

In addition to playing comedy gigs, they continue to workshop their comedic musical based on their act entitled 'The Rose Garden Party' with The Grand Theatre in London, ON. The next public workshop is scheduled for January 2008.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Roses">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.