There are 2 artists called Black Trip. (1) A Heavy Metal band from Stockholm, Sweden. Formed by Peter Stjärnvind and Daniel Bergkvist in 2004, released 2 albums and changed name to VOJD in 2016.. And (2) an American Thrash/Death Metal band that started in 1997 in Mexico City, now in Boston, they have never been signed to a label.

(1) A Heavy metal band from Stockholm, Sweden created by Peter Stjärnvind (ex-Unanimated, ex-Entombed, ex-Nifelheim) and Daniel Bergkvist (Wolf) in 2004. Daniel, previously the drummer, left the band before any official recordings. 
Peter Stjärnvind on all instruments and new vocalist Joseph Toll (Enforcer) released a 2 track demo 7" titled Tvář Ďábla on Primitive Art recordings in 2012. The title means Face Of The Devil in the Czech language. 
Joining the band after this recording were Jonas Wikstrand (Enforcer) on drums,  Sebastian Ramstedt (ex-Necrophobic, ex-Nifelheim) on guitar, and Johan Bergebäck (ex-Necrophobic, ex-Nifelheim) on bass. This lineup released a full length LP Goin' Under on Threeman recordings in October 2013. A cover of Riot's Outlaw was released 2014 on a split 7" with Dead Lords.  A second album titled Shadowline was released 2015. 
They changed the band name to V.O.J.D in 2016. They do not play the same style they played in Black Trip.

They recorded a music video for 'Radar'. Lyrics are focused on the occult and darkness.
Official homepage: http://www.blacktrip.se
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Black-Trip/184303701663532

(2) The American, previously Mexican band, plays melodic death metal with a wide variety of influences including thrash, power metal, and death. Formed in Mexico City by guitarist and vocalist Gennaro Ammendola and established in Boston, Massachusetts with drummer Jeff Hale, lead guitarist Ben Levin, and bassist Trevor McCabe. They have opened for many bands including: OVERKILL, SEPULTURA, ARCH ENEMY, Joey Belladona (ANTHRAX), HATE ETERNAL, ORIGIN, VITAL REMAINS, ABYSMAL DAWN, SONATA ARCTICA, ARSIS, MARDUK, MOONSPELL, DEATHand played the Magic Circle Festival II in GERMANY, Bad Arolsen with MANOWAR. Despite this, very few people are aware of the band and the band remains unsigned.

They have self-released two demos: Black Trip (1997), Demo (2005) and three EPs: Wings Of Steel (2007), Firewind (2008), and Heart Of The Dream (2012).
Their website is http://www.blacktripmetal.com
Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/blacktripband
You can also find the bands' releases on itunes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Trip">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.