There are four bands by the name of Black Moon:

1)  Black Moon (Brothers who Lyrically Act and Combine Kickin Music Out On Nations) is a Hip Hop group from Brooklyn, New York which debuted in 1992, with the release of the single "Who Got Da Props?". The song became something of an underground phenomenon, and charted on the Billboard Hot 100. With the help of DJ Chuck Chillout, the group landed a record deal with Nervous Records for the release of their debut album Enta Da Stage, released in late 1993. The album included "Who Got Da Props?", as well as the singles "How Many MC's...", "Buck Em Down", and another Hot 100 hit, "I Got Cha Opin (Remix)". The album went on to sell over 350,000 copies in the U.S., and is now regarded as an underground hip hop classic. Following the album's release, the group temporarily broke up.

During the group's hiatus, DJ Evil Dee continued his production career with his crew Da Beatminerz, and lead MC Buckshot headed out and formed his own supergroup called the Boot Camp Clik, featuring fellow Brooklyn locals Smif-N-Wessun, Heltah Skeltah and O.G.C.. Following the releases of the debuts from Smif-N-Wessun (Dah Shinin'), Heltah Skeltah (Nocturnal), and O.G.C. (Da Storm), Black Moon reformed on Buckshot's label Duck Down Records. In late 1996, Nervous Records released a Black Moon compilation album titled Diggin' in Dah Vaults, which featured a number of remixes and B-Side tracks. After the group's split with Nervous Records, Black Moon became entangled in a legal battle over the licensing rights of their group name, which lasted for a number of years. The case was finally settled in 1998, and they were able to license the name through Nervous.

In 1999, they released their long awaited second album War Zone. The album saw a change in the group's musical style, with a more mature Buckshot showing off a calmer, more serious lyrical delivery, and also featured a new lo-fi production sound from Da Beatminerz. The album's singles "Two Turntables and a Mic" and "This is What it Sounds Like (Worldwind)" made small impact, and the group wasn't able to properly capitalize on their hype. Despite the somewhat disappointing sales, the album received good reviews. 1999 also saw the solo debut album from Buckshot, titled The BDI Thug, which was seen as a major disappointment. The album was met with very mediocre reviews and little sales. Black Moon and the Boot Camp Clik were largely missing from the hip hop scene between 2000 and 2001.

The Camp returned in 2002 for their second group album, The Chosen Few. Black Moon returned in 2003 for the release of their third album Total Eclipse. The album featured the underground hit "Stay Real", as well as two music videos, shot for the singles "Stay Real" and "This Goes Out to You". The album, like their previous efforts, received good reviews, but wasn't able to reach outside the underground hip hop audience. The three were planning on another group release, but backup MC 5ft was sentenced to four-to-nine years in prison on March 6, 2004 for sale of an illegal substance. DJ Evil Dee has continued production work with Da Beatminerz, and Buckshot has continued work with the Boot Camp Clik. In 2005, Buck released a collaboration album with producer 9th Wonder titled Chemistry. In 2006, DJ Evil Dee and his brother Mr. Walt released a mixtape titled Alter the Chemistry, which paired Buckshot's vocals from the Chemistry album with classic Black Moon beats.

2)  Black Moon was also a punk/metal band from Mohrsville, Pennsylvania.
Band MySpace: http://www.myspace.com/blackmoonmusic

3) Black Moon is an underground black metal band from Chile, featured on the "Call From The Grave" split in 2005 with Maledictum.

4) Black Moon competed in Danish MGP 2014 with their song Fun in the Summer. The band consists of singers Alma and Mia, guitarist Noa Sophie, bassist Frieda, pianist Esther and drummer Lauritz. They are all born in 2001 and live in Copenhagen, Denmark (with exception of Lauritz who live in Frederiksberg, Denmark). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Moon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.