There are multiple bands called "Black Heart":

1. Austrian singer/songwriter Corina Cinkl's new project. BLACK HEART is Dark Pop music, featuring melodic songwriting amidst an atmosphere of ethereal electronic sound.
https://blackheartofficial.bandcamp.com/

2. From the Finnish rock capital Tampere strikes BLACK HEART, a goth metal act influenced by artists such as Paradise Lost, Type O Negative, The Birthday Massacre and Depeche Mode.

The story brings us back in 2004 when BLACK HEART was born as a quartet founded by singer and songwriter Ilkka Vuorinen in a little town called Mänttä. Within the years 2005-2007 the band released its first songs and played some gigs, mostly at local youth centres and little festivals. In late 2008 frontman Ilkka decided to move to Tampere and so the band was put on hold for an undefined period of time.

Later, in spring 2009 Ilkka met keyboardist Jyrki at a local rock bar. Jyrki was also searching for a new band due to break up of his former group Karmine. After a short conversation these two songwriters realized they had same kind of musical visions and eagerly started to discuss about forming a band. Ilkka didn't want to bury his earlier visions so the two decided to gather a new group to resurrect the band they both dreamt of having.

During summer 2009 BLACK HEART started to get flesh around its bones as metalcore-influenced guitarist Teemu was found. Soon drummer Hanna and bassist Tino also joined the group and the quintet began furiously training new tunes for upcoming releases. BLACK HEART was finally reborn.

In 2010, six years after the first steps of BLACK HEART, The band is rising from the ashes with a new, ambitious line-up, bigger & heavier sound, and attitude you can't overlook. Blackhearted sinners and outcasts worldwide, we we are not the only ones to suffer...

BLACK HEART is:

Ilkka Vuorinen - Vocals
Jyrki Nieminen - Keys
Teemu Norvasto - Guitar
Tino Nordlund - Bass
Hanna Isomäki - Drums  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Heart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.