Black Debbath is a stoner rock/heavy rock band from Oslo, Norway. Black Debbath started off as a Black Sabbath tribute band, but evolved into a humorous rock band. They are known for their funny shows and lyrics, but the band is also focusing on making good, classic rock. Black Debbath have released seven albums and several singles and EPs and have toured Norway on a regular basis since their formation in 1999. Black Debbath is associated with the label Duplex and bands such as Gartnerlosjen, Lyd, Bare Egil Band and many other Norwegian humour music acts.

Their debut album won the Norwegian "Spellemannsprisen" (the Norwegian Grammy) in 1999, but the price was soon taken away from them. It turned out that price-presenter Kristopher Schau (from The Cumshots) is a close friend of the band and intentionally announced the wrong winner. The real winner of the metal-category this year was The Kovenant for their album Nexus Polaris.


Discography:
1999 - Tung, Tung Politisk Rock - An album about the political state in Norway
2001 - Welcome To Norway - A tourist guide
2004 - Den Femte Statsmakt - Another political album
2006 - Naar Vi Døde Rocker - A hymn to Henrik Ibsen
2007 - Black Debbath Hyller Kvinnen - A Tribute to Women
2009 - Black Debbaths Beste - Ti år med rock mot alt som er kult - The best-of Black Debbath
2013 - Nå får det faen meg være rock! Akademisk stoner-rock!

Current line-up:
Aslag Guttormsgaard (Guitar, vocals, bass) - also in Hurra Torpedo etc.
Egil Hegerberg (Guitar, vocals, bass) - also in Bare Egil Band, Hurra Torpedo etc.
Lars Lønning (Vocals, guitar) - also in Gartnerlosjen etc.
Ole Petter Andreassen (Percussion) - also in The Cumshots and Thulsa Doom

Former member:
Per Bertrand Aanonsen (Percussion) - also in Gartnerlosjen and deafmazjiiN

Official website: http://www.duplexrecords.no/blackdebbath/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Debbath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.