There are several bands sharing the name Black Majesty 

1) Black Majesty is a black metal band hailing from Trondheim (Norway). Black Majesty has released two demos in 2007 and an EP called "Seventh King of Edom" in 2009. 

2) A melodic power metal band from Melbourne, Australia.

So far they have released five LPs: Sands of Time (2003), Silent Company (2005), Tomorrowland (2007), In Your Honour (2010) and Stargazer (2012).

The band was formed in 2001 under the name Kymera and with various members already well known on the local metal and heavy rock scene. Guitarist Steve Janevski was drawn from Cyclone Tracy, a long-running heavy rock/hair metal outfit. Bass player Cory Betts was also a member of Pegazus, another well-known Melbourne power metal band that had toured Europe in 1998, although he did not join that band until early 1999. Kymera’s other guitarist Hanny Mohammed had recorded an album with a band called Catwitch who had been featured on a television documentary. With drummer Pavel Konvalinka and singer John Cavaliere the band was complete. During a brief flirtation with the name Arkaya, the band began recording material, but Betts left and the group renamed itself Black Majesty.

The Sands of Time album was recorded in 2002 and prefaced by a three-track promo disc that won them a contract with German label Limb Music. Bass tracks were recorded by both Betts and Evan Harris, and Cavaliere duetted with Silvio Massaro from Vanishing Point and Danny Cecati from Eyefear on two tracks. Joe Fata replaced Betts in the interim, but left before the album was released in 2003, and since then Black Majesty has not had a permanent bass player.

Mark Kelson of Melbourne doom band The Eternal and Harris have featured as touring members. During the sessions Konvalinka recording his drum tracks in Germany with Piet Sielck of Iron Savior and the album’s release was preceded by a short tour of Europe. On the band’s return to Australia they toured with British band Dragonforce.

Black Majesty’s third album Tomorrowland was released on 1 June 2007, with European tour dates to follow, including the world-renowned Wacken Open Air festival. Black Majesty continued to gain exposure by supporting metal icons such as Saxon, before releasing their follow-up album “In Your Honour” in 2010. The release was promoted with several shows around Australia as well as a headlining slot at Indonesia’s Bla Bla Bla Festival. 2012 the band announced a European tour to support the release of their new album Stargazer in July.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Majesty">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.