Blacksunrise is a melodic death metal band formed in Lisbon, Portugal in September 2002. In 2008 they disbanded but one year later, in 2009, they became active again with a new line-up. Padinha brothers (Joo Guitar and J. Pedro Drums) start up the band that would latter be known as Blacksunrise. After some experiences in other minor bands, Blacksunrise was formed heavily influenced by European Metalcore bands and the Hardcore ideology itself. As time went by it became obvious that the band wanted to progress both musically and lyrically, as the message has always been something very important to Blacksunrise. A sharp sound with sharp lyrics, focusing on the problems that inhabit this world with us. Blacksunrise released a Demo, Born In The Cradle Of Death in early 2003, a Demo that caught the Portuguese scene off guard and grabbed the attention of both the Hardcore and Metal Scenes. After this release the band started to play more often and became one of the tightest and most destructive live machines around, a status that it still maintains up to this day. The first Blacksunrise album, The Azrael was released in early 2005. A more furious, brutal and metal oriented effort than the previous one. The Azrael featured 8 tracks of relentless aggression with a strong thematic on the animal and earth exploitation subjects. The Azrael was released by Rastilho Records,that provided a good distribution. That, and the hundreds of shows the band played that first half of the year, in Portugal and abroad, got them the first appearances in Major Summer Festivals in Portugal. By the summer of 2005 Blacksunrise was Playing Super Bock Super Rock Festival alongside such names as System Of A Down, Slayer; and Ilha Do Ermal Festival alongside Grave, Entombed and Morbid Angel. The band is currently finishing the composition of their forthcoming album tentatively named Zombie Youth Army. The musical and lyrical progressions will be evident as Blacksunrise is an always-mutating entity even though the keep that identity that makes everything sound like Blacksunrise. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blacksunrise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.