Paul McGlennon - Vocals
Ady McGlennon - Drums
Dave Camp - Bass
Frazer Hart - Guitar 

Black River Project were a metal band from Leicester, Midlands. Originally formed as a hobby for the members (hence 'Project'), the band enjoyed multiple tours around the country, without ever taking their contribution too seriously. The highlight of their career came when supporting Napalm Death in 2006.

Terrorizer magazine voters placed the band 6th in their 'Best Unsigned Act' pole, behind Evile(placed 1st) and Speed Theory.

In 2007, the band decided to call it at day, and released the following statement on their MySpace page, www.myspace.com/blackriverproject:

"We don't want to mess around with any bullsh*tty wording so it's easy just to come out and say that after much deliberation Paul could no longer commit to the project. Ady, Dave and Me have had some time to get used to the idea and everything is sorted... We are all still the bestest chummers and always will be to be honest. The idea of getting another vocalist is not in the equation either, BRP was a fully combined effort and if any of the four of us left it would change what we are and what we are about so that’s it really, no fighting, no rock and roll "musical differences", just time to move onwards and upwards. 

As a little recap we'd like to point out that BRP started as a bit of fun with no intentions of even doing a gig so 5 years down the line having gigged all over the country with some top bands having way too much fun and booze to shifting what we calculate to be around 6000 CD's, being voted the 6th best unsigned band in Terrorizer and playing to a great crowd at BOA it's much much much more than we ever expected! 

We've made some darn good friends along the way and we want to big up everyone for making the past 5 years such good fun. Special thanks to Dean and the Inbreds, Subliminal Fear, Phat Jerusalem (and of course Becca!), F.A.T.E, Isaiah, Jaz, Denounce, Allerjen, The Hicks, Omnuim Gatherum, Internal Conflict, Matt and Retribution and so many more.. In a small way you've all lessened the life of our livers! "
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+River+Project">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.