There are multiple artists named Black Rain. For the French glam rock band see BlackRain.
 
1) Black Rain is an industrial group from New York, United States, formed in 1989 by Stuart Argabright, Bones, Shin Shimokawa, Thom Furtado and Dave Vulcan, emerging out of the ruins of seminal post-punk outfit Ike Yard. After playing CBGB's, The Bank, Tompkins Square Park show commemorating the Riots there and the last G.G. Allin show at the Gas Station on LES (Lungcast cassette), this phase of the group went on to work in the Studio with Roy Mayorga (Thorn / StoneSour) on drums and guitar riffage. Phase two was a more electronic project between collaborators Stuart and Shinichi, releasing two albums running the gamut of electro, drum & bass, ambient, and industrial on Fifth Colvmn records. Aside from “1.0” in 1995 and “Nanarchy” in 1996, they also asked to create the score of the audiobook 10th anniversary edition of Neuromancer as read by William Gibson. This last record, "Now I'm Just a Number: Soundtracks 1994-1995", has just been re-released by London label Blackest Ever Black.

They also created the earliest soundtrack for the film adaptation of the William Gibson novel, "Johnny Mnemonic" before Keanu Reeves was signed as the lead actor. It appears that with the choice of Reeves for the lead, the film distributors decided upon a collection of various artist to form the soundtrack, rejecting the Black Rain collection. Only one Black Rain piece remained, "Memory Johnny Ska Yakuza Firefight" and even this track is not on the official US release of the soundtrack on CD (it does however, appear on the Japanese CD release).

2) Electronic music producers Robert Haigh (also known as Omni Trio) and Sean O'Keeffe (also known as Deep Blue), whose style closely resembles the minimalist electronic/drum & bass sounds that both artists are known for individually. Black Rain's only major release has been the album All Tomorrow's Food, released by Scale Records in 2003.

3) A two piece band with Ant Moore on guitar and vocals and the newest member Lara Jade on vocals. Soon the songs will be re-recorded and a few new ones to add to the mix. Most of the recordings have been at Robanna’s Studio in Birmingham. See also http://www.purevolume.com/blackrain and http://www.myspace.com/blackrainuk for more info and free downloads.

4) Black Rain is a fairly obscure band from California, United States that played catchy melodic hard rock. Members include Ty Christensen (vocals), Galvan Steele (guitars), Jay Linthicum (bass), Shawn Logan (guitars) and Joe Bonzi (drums).

5) A black metal band from the Czech Republic, now split up.

6)  A death metal band from Canada.

7) A heavy metal band from Brazil. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Rain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.