BLACK CULT is a black metal band formed in late 2013 by two of the most prominent individuals from the Croatian black metal scene; Insanus (Castrum, Unholy Inquisition, Gorthaur's Wrath, Ashes you leave and many more) who played and recorded all music, while Morbid (Gorthaur's Wrath, Mysterium) did all the vocals and lyrics. Initially BC was conceived as a project and main idea behind forming BC was to play Black Metal as it should be or at least how Insanus and Morbid think it should be. 

After the album was recorded and listened by a few individuals there was no problem to compile a complete lineup and BC become a bend. In early 2014, a full line up was formed by adding three other names from the scene. Azaghal (Unholy Inquisition, Gorthaur's Wrath, Hibernum), Lesovik (Gorthaur's Wrath, Nekrist, Voloch and Kult Perunov) and Saathaen (Ashes you leave, Heathen Mysticism).

Black Cultists are creating a new dimension of the Devil's music for Satan's worshipers. It is said that the cultist's activities have been detected over 13 years ago in the lands of the far east but the cult itself dates back even deeper into the era of the ancient history. In times when mankind was still silent, and only as an abstract idea, the cult was born from the darkness of the universal chaos. It is believed that their following is vast, yet hidden and unknown to mortal men. They've always been there, ever-present, lurking in the shadows, waiting for the perfect moment in time.
That time has come, it is now! 

Hail Satan!

Co-release of 3 labels, Neo-Satanism is the Black Cult's debut album featuring twelve songs including Burzum cover "Jesus tod". Album was recorded, mixed and produced during the last few months of 2013 in Dungeon Studios by Insanus. All music created and played by Insanus. All lyrics and vocals by Morbid. This is a pure black metal masterpiece for the new generation of the Devil's worshipers. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Black+Cult">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.