There is more than one band with the name Blackstorm:
1. Metal/Rock band from Slovakia, http://bandzone.cz/blackstorm
2. Sludge/Classic Rock band from Brighton, UK http://www.myspace.com/blackstormrocks
3. Defuct US Power/Thrash Metal band from San Jose, California
4. Defunct Melodic Black Metal band from Phoenix, Arizona http://www.myspace.com/symphonikblackmetal


1. Blackstorm from Dolny Kubín, formed in 2002.


2. Blackstorm are five musicians from Brighton playing the heaviest of rock music. Deftly combining elements of drone, stoner, down-tuned sludge with classic rock and the vitality of hardcore and punk, Blackstorm combines crushingly heavy, catchy-ashell riffs with juggernaut proportioned rhythmic grooves and killer hook laden vocals.

Blackstorm take their musical cues from heavy weights such as Crowbar and High On Fire, but are no mere carbon-copyists. The quality of material on display here is a testament to the collective experience of the five musicians.

Eschewing the trappings of the contemporary scene, Blackstorm is a throwback to a time when music was created intuitively, without the self-conscious fashion driven posturing and cynical second-guessing that seems to be inextricably linked to today’s breed of bands.

Having met in late ’06 the five piece quickly realized that they had met musical kindred spirits in each other, and immediately started exchanging ideas. Fast forward to the summer of ‘09 and Blackstorm have played local shows with the likes of Cancer Bats, Kruger, Miramar Disaster, Johnny Truant and have recorded half a dozen killer songs.

Blackstorm aren’t re-inventing the wheel and wouldn’t claim to be, but make no mistake, they have fitted some damn fine chrome hubcaps and are hell bent on keeping the wheels of rock turning. 



3. Blackstorm were a US Power/Thrash Metal band from San Jose, California, active from the years of 1986 to at least 1994. While still together, the band released 3 demos and 1 EP, titled "Tales from the Wishing Well." In 2009, Arkeyn Steel Records released a compilation album of all their material digitally remastered, titled "Twist of Fate." There was talk and plans of the band reforming in 2009 at the time of the compilations release, but as of 2013, nothing has come to fruition.



4. Blackstorm is a Melodic Black Metal band founded in 1998 in Phoenix, Arizona,USA. Their first album "Black Circle Crusades" released in 1999 and their "As Black as Thy Candles Burn" EP released in 2000. And... The members;


J. Animal Diamond - Vocals
Michael Wright - Lead guitar
John Hayden - Bass (Wrath of Wolves)
Ian wright - Drums and percussion
Victor Morell - Keyboards (Born of Fire (US), Psychic Pawn, Season of Pain)
D. Lynn McWilliams - Female Vocals
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blackstorm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.