There are multiple artists with the name Blanche:

1) Ellie Delvaux (born 10 June 1999), better known as Blanche, is a Belgian singer and songwriter. 
She represented Belgium in the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 in Ukraine with her song "City Lights", placing fourth in the Grand Final. The song charted across Europe, peaking at #1 in Flanders and #2 in Wallonia. Blanche previously competed on season five of The Voice Belgique, where she was a member of Team Cats on Trees.

On 25 May 2018, Blanche released the single "Wrong Turn", which peaked at #75 in Wallonia. A music video was released on 19 June 2018 which, as of December 2018, has over 150,000 views on YouTube. The song "Soon" was released in July 2018, peaking at #82 in Wallonia. "Moment" was released in November 2018 along with a music video. The song peaked at #47 in Wallonia and #67 in Flanders.

She released "Empire" on 13 February 2020, with her debut album of the same name set for release on 24 April 2020.

2) Blanche is an American alternative country band from Detroit, Michigan. Their music is based in Americana, early country, and folk blues, with a touch of haunting Southern Gothic stylings and garage rock mentality. Blanche is known for wearing vintage fashion of the early to mid-20th century.
The origins of Blanche can be traced back to the early '90s band Goober & the Peas. Led by Dan "Goober" Miller, the band was devoted to cowpunk, and dressed in honky-tonk attire. After the break-up of Goober & The Peas, three of the band's members—Dan Miller, Jack White, and Damian Lang—formed the garage rock band Two-Star Tabernacle with Miller's wife Tracee Mae Miller. The band split in 1999, after releasing one 7-inch vinyl with Andre Williams. White went on to form The White Stripes, Lang joined The Detroit Cobras, and Dan and Tracee Mae formed Blanche.
Since 2003, Blanche has performed at several international music festivals, including Lowlands, Pukkelpop and the CMJ Music Marathon. The band opened for and toured with The White Stripes, Loretta Lynn, Ditty Bops, The Flaming Lips, Wilco, Calexico, The Kills, and Brendan Benson, among others. Blanche has also appeared on several radio stations for live performances and interviews in the United States and Europe, including WFUV in New York and XFM in London. Members are: Dan John Miller - guitar, lead vocals, Tracee Mae Miller - bass, vocals, Lisa, 'Jaybird' Jannon - drums, vocals, "Little Jack" Lawrence - banjo, mandolin, vocals, keyboards, David Feeny - pedal steel guitar, dobro, keyboards, clarinet, melodica, vocals, percussion, Former Member, Brian "Patch" Boyle - banjo, autoharp. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blanche">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.