There are several artists who use the name "Blanco":

1)  Joshua Eduardo (b. 1997), professionally known as Blanco, is a British rapper hailing from Kennington, South London. He is widely known as a member of the iconic UK Drill collective Harlem Spartans.

He would start to gain notoriety alongside the group in 2016 through singles such as “Call Me A Spartan”, “Kennington Where It Started” and “Kent Nizzy” – tracks in which actively cemented the group as one of the most influential UK Drill collectives in the country.

Blanco was arrested alongside fellow Harlem Spartans member MizOrMac in February 2017 when their vehicle was intercepted by police and searches found a loaded gun on MizOrMac and a samurai sword on Blanco. They were jailed in 2018 with Blanco receiving 3-years.

After a steady growing solo-career following Harlem Spartan parting ways as a group, Blanco refined his rapping skills showcasing he can do more than just UK Drill as he also swerved in and out of Trap and Afroswing genre’s – perfecting his slow-set cadence and Anime wordplay, the latter in which inspired his debut EP English Dubbed, which was released in November 2019.

Blanco released his full-length debut mixtape to be released in August 2021 titled City of God to critical acclaim.

2)  Pseudonym of Riccardo Fabbricone, Blanco, is an Italian rapper born in 2003, originally from Brescia. Before reaching the general public, his music moved to TikTok and Soundcloud. The young artist released his first songs "Sottogonna", "Ruggine" and "Amateur", and got immediately noticed by the Island Records label. However, it was "Belladonna (Adieu)", released on June 18, 2020, that was his first official release for the record company, followed on July 23 with the single "Notti in blanco". In October comes the third single and North Vision entry "Ladro di Fiori".

3)  Blanco is a rapper from San Francisco (Bay Area), USA. He's contributed to over 15 CDs in under 10 years, "American Psycho" is his debut album. Blanco adjusts his delivery in spots to suit today's lyrical climate, but he does nothing to sacrifice who and what he is. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blanco">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.