The concept of Blastanus was derived from the sick minds of two friends who at a young age decided to stop trivializing their existence and concentrate on the things that matter the most in life: Blastbeats and, well, you know, assholes! The band started out as a intention of being pure blasting grindcore insanity, but soon after the band was formed in early 2007, it became apparent that the death metal influence would not shrug itself away. The band ultimately combines the brutality of Death metal and the speed of grindcore with adding elements of savage black metal. The emphasis is definitely on the blastbeat, but the band still maintain dynamics to keep their songs interesting. Today, Blastanus stands out as a monolith of modern extreme technical-deathgrind with ranging influences appealing for the fans of The Dillinger Escape Plan, Origin, Hate Eternal, Cephalic Carnage and Rotten Sound.

The band has recorded their debut album, entitled “Odd”, which is to be released in June 2009. “Odd” consists of 16 songs: with the band's ADHD style of songwriting it would've been unwise to publish a two-song demo, leaving the bands true potential hidden. The record was all done independently and is going to be released by the band itself (if no label picks it up). The band has confirmed couple of shows for the summer. The goal is to play, and possibly tour, as much as possible in support of the release

The group first came together in early 2007 with Antti Oksanen on guitar, Henri Fredriksson on drums and Kari Väkiparta on vocals. Later on the band was joined by Mikko Hellström on bass. Every member is on the same page as far as motivation and training their instruments goes. In order for the band to stay fresh and not get stale, the sights are well set in to the future. The ideas for the next release are well on the way and even a couple of new songs have been written for it. The new songs are going to have even more elaborate songwriting and have a bit more length to them. The band is going premiere these new songs at their shows as well as the currently fresh material of “Odd”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blastanus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.