Blawan is British-born, Berlin-based DJ and electronic dance producer Jamie Roberts. He started releasing EPs in 2010 on various labels such as R & S Records and Hessle Audio. His song "Getting Me Down" was named Resident Advisor's best single of 2011. After releasing 15 EPs he finally released his debut album "Wet Will Always Dry" in 2018.

Roberts grew up in Barnsley, UK and from an early age was etching out his musical path as a drummer – a relic of the past which should come as no surprise to anyone familiar with his productions. Indeed, his discography as Blawan illuminates a natural fluency for rhythm, whether straight, stridently syncopated, or swinging somewhere in between.

His other aliases, Kilner and Bored Young Adults, like his collaborations with Pariah as Karenn and with Surgeon as Trade, have provided additional bandwidth for experimentation. Having released across the board of rippling jet-black minimalism, jubilant two-step vocal cuts, and savant grooving techno, the labels Roberts has worked with are appropriately varied: Hessle Audio, R&S, Clone’s Basement Series, Hinge Finger, and Black Sun as Blawan, plus The Trilogy Tapes and Avian under his other solo names.

Roberts’ own label, TERNESC, was established in 2015 and has served as the home for his last five releases as Blawan. Having made the move to Berlin in 2015, his analogue-driven studio production and formidable live sets have propelled Roberts into exciting new directions, even as he maintains expert command of more traditional dance floor environments from behind the decks. His latest offering, the full-length Wet Will Always Dry, dropped in June 2018. It’s a breakthrough moment in Roberts’ discipline of auditory alchemy, and a tour-de-force of ambitious, nuanced techno for fans following his ever-explorative career.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blawan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.