Bleating Apocalypse are a band from the UK, playing comedic black metal and death metal since early 2007.

According to the band's website:
When drummer Wooden Chef left previous band, 'The Carpet Shop Boys' in 2006 due to a drug scandal and a fall out with fellow band member Torsten Mitton, he went straight to re-hab in Basingstoke, UK where Chef met future Bleeting Apocalpyse bassist, Mega Sologo, who was recovering from alcoholism. Sologo and Chef agreed that once out of Basingstoke, they would form a new band.

Late 2007 brought about the closure of The Carpet Shop Boys after not being able to find a suitable replacement for Wooden Chef. Meanwhile, Chef and Sologo were on the way to looking for other band members to join. At this point they met their new rhythm guitar player, Barry Arsebirth Green, (known as Arsebirth when playing gigs or doing anthing music related.) Arsebirth at first was reluctant to join the band due to the style of music Chef and Sologo were intending to play, (metal, whereas Arsebirth prefers 70's disco.)
﻿
It seemed unlikely that Bleeting Apocalypse were to go any further, due to a lack of support mainly from Arsebirth, and so the project was put on hold. In 2009, Sologo picked the project up again, re-uniting Chef, Arsebirth and himself. Believing that Chef had put his differences aside, Sologo invited Torsten Mitton to audition for the singer position in the band. Chef broke Mitton's arm at the audition and was duly arrested.

﻿In January 2010, Chef was out of prison and met with Arsebirth and Sologo, eager to complete the band. They quickly found guitarist Bloody Sunday who happily accepted the position as lead. However, the singer position still remained. In May 2010, Chef did an interview with Kerrang! magazine to talk about his recovery from drugs, but admitted that he had used them on and off throughout recent months. After the interview was over, he met Canadian-English-Swiss-South African-Finish metal singer Tetanus Jabb in the Kerrang! green room, awaiting a Q and A session. Here, Chef told Jabb about his band prospects and invited Jabb to attend an audition.

﻿By June, Jabb had been accepted as the lead singer of Bleeting Apocalypse and was starting to record with the group and soon released the album "Pestilence in the Playground" in the October of 2011. After the release, a general consensus was reached that the band's name would be changed to the more compatible 'Bleating Apocalypse.'  That Christmas, the band recorded the song "Christmas With Satan"

﻿The following year, the band began planning the release of their second self-produced album, initially entitled "From the Dead". The new album was planned to be released soon after the summer of 2012, though rehearsals and recording were constantly interrupted due to Wooden Chef's re-discovery of hallucinogenics and Calpol. This prompted the other members of the band to begin discussing replacing Chef, at which Chef got angry at and attacked the band with a rake. It was eventually agreed that another drummer would be needed to 'aid' Chef when he was drumming. The name of the drummer has not yet been released.

​In November 2012, Bleating Apocalypse released a number of statements regarding the progression of the album. First that it would be called 'Sheepcore' and second that they would release a song called "Black Metal Interior Design", possibly from the next album. At the same time, guitarist Barry "Arsebirth" Green announced giving up playing the guitar and taking up interpretive dance. The guitarist spot was filled by Tetanus Jabb. It was also announced that the band would release "Christmas With Satan II" in December 2012.

Having fully relocated to Sheffield, England, Bleating Apocalypse released the infamous track Black Metal Interior Design, an homage to the bleakest riffs, highest quality furnishings and Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen. The Interior Design God was informed about his inclusion, and he approved. Hot on the heels of this, in January 2013 Bleating Apocalypse released "Sheepcore" and began gigging regularly around the area.

In the continuing spirit of re-recording things and putting a 2 after them, Bleating Apocalypse revisited their early work and re-recorded "Pestilence in the Playground" in higher quality, as "Pestilence II: Nostalgia of the Apocalypse". This also contained a new bonus track: "Easy Listening Interior Design".

Many many successful gigs later, including gigs in London and Brighton, supporting the mighty Evil Scarecrow in Sheffield and a popular series of annual Christmas gigs under the banner "Christmas with Satan", Bleating Apocalypse released their album "Black Sheep" in December 2015. The definitive sound of Bleating Apocalypse past and present, this album contained 6 re-recorded tracks from "Sheepcore" and 3 entirely new tracks. It was made available on CD as well as downloadable from BandCamp, split into two halves: "Black Sheep: Ram" and "Black Sheep: Ewe".

At the launch gig for Black Sheep, Bleating Apocalypse revealed the crowning achievement of their career to date: Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen had acknowledged the band and the track Black Metal Interior Design in a video naming the band as His representatives on Earth: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7rNhIJdmMks

This biography, however, might be a complete tissue of lies.

bleatingapocalypse.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bleating+Apocalypse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.