THE CONCLAVE:

Hellscream - Vocal
Infernal K. - Bass guitar
Angelus - Guitar
Occultus - Guitar
Lexecutioner - Drums

Bleeding Fist; name that spread sickness and fear among whom tasted what inglorious presence lurks behind it’s malevolent aura spreading cancerous heroin under the sign of the most brutal Slovenian act without compromises.

Spawned in 2004, trespassed through line-up changes, various recordings and overall shocked audience, Bleeding Fist from blackened thrash evolved the sound into something which can be compared to the devil itself and in 2009 it’s unique liturgy lead them forward to bloodstain a deal with the legendary American cult extreme metal label Moribund Records.

The first assault enact under the flag of Moribund Records was unleashed on September 28, 2009 under the sacrament “Bestial Kruzifix666ion” which was re-released and re-mastered on vinyl in 2010 by Total Metal. “Bestial Kruzifix666ion” was entirely recorded in live mode in Studio Panorama.

After the reveal of “Bestial Kruzifix666ion”, Bleeding Fist heralded the forthcoming gospel “Macabrum Bestia Ex Abyssus” and like its predecessor, the newest hymn of the insane was recorded entirely in live mode in Studio Panorama. Released on April 13, 2010, as a pilgrimage to the inverted of the dark light! “Macabrum Bestia Ex Abyssus” also features the sorcering from Andy Bull – guitarist of the Italian black thrash metal legends Bulldozer. “Macabrum Bestia ex Abyssus” was later re-released on MC format by War Productions.

2011 - two more satanic bombardment were evoked by the conclave - Devil’s Ferox, the ultimate masterpiece reveal Bleeding Fist in a totally different shape; at the same, still destructive, occult and filled with blackness as ever! Again, released by Moribund Records world widely. Last but not least, Bleeding Fist released some utter satanic live pieces and released the material on the split with Infidel on Old Temple!

Bleeding Fist with it’s infamous live ceremonies leads the audience into a macabre spectrum of morbid death crowned with vomit and blasphemy as some things have to be felt to understand that such monstrosity still exist. Through years of intense concerting the conclave had the pleasure to share the stage with some of the most influential acts in extreme metal such as Watain, Ofermod, Ondskapt, Mortuary Drape, Maniac Butcher, Infernal War, Zemial, Immortal, 1349, Ad Hominem, Forgotten Tomb, Proclamation, Blasphemophagher, Impaled Nazarene and the list goes on...

Described by Noise Creep: Bleeding Fist’s concerts are like 666 Bullets in the face of God!

In 2010 the black spell surrounding Bleeding Fist was strengthened by the recruitment of the final pillar. Occultus, baptized in blood sold his soul to the devil as second guitarist of Bleeding Fist Unholy Conclave.

2011 - The former member Krieg Maschine was replaced by Lexecutioner on drums.

It’s getting darker and colder. Beware of the upcoming attack.

NOT EXECUTORS BUT MASTERS
NOT BELIEVERS BUT LEADERS

ARISE PILLARS OF DARK LIGHT!

266 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bleeding+Fist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.