Official site: http://www.bleedingred.com/

The band "Bleeding Red" from Spraitbach (Baden-Württemberg) was founded in 2006 by the then only 18 and 16 year old Timo Joos (vocals, guitar) and Michael Mueller (bass) to life. Shortly after the decision was made to take Timo's 13-year-old brother Fabian (drums) on board and in the rehearsal room successive einzuspielen. A few weeks later it was decided then to the 18-year-old guitarist Manuel Waible - and the band was complete. The young age of the band changed, however, alter the fact that the boys dominated their instruments well and also in terms of songwriting not had to hide from older colleagues. With its mix of everything, so expect the heavy music scene, BLEEDING RED created a unique sound, the lives of demonic atmosphere just as brutal of riffs, melodic lead guitars and lightning fast double bass thunderstorms. BLEEDING RED manages to fuse the diverse influences addressed to an ironclad blackened-death-alloy and thus transforming every concert into a veritable inferno. Within a short time, a fan base that is unparalleled.
 In just three years as a band and a published EP made it onto the young band Billing many renowned festivals, played numerous shows in Germany, Switzerland and Austria and developed from unknown newcomer to the best kept secret.
 The mass appeal of the band joined the official supporters club "Bloodforce" together and support the troops in all areas. Since afterwards traveled, moshing and singing along, there's no tomorrow.

 In October 2009, the boys boarded then the Studio 141 in Schwäbisch Hall with Roger Grüninger to record a new demo. Although the first EP have already been run in very good reviews in the press, Bleeding Red unsuccessful in this demo still on it a gear and proffer their fans with a master morsel in the fledgling band history. A few labels have expressed interest ...

 What happens in the future is still up in the stars! However, one should be interesting ... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bleeding+Red">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.