8 artists named as Bless:

1) Montreal born and bred MC Bless has spent almost his entire life surrounded by hip-hop whether it was break dancing by age 8 or demoing songs in the studio by 12. At the young age of 23 he is of a generation that is old enough to respect the history, but has an eye towards becoming the future. By the time he was 16, Bless was already garnering a reputation as being a battle MC in and around Montreal who could stand toe to toe with anyone, appearing on radio shows and jumping on any stage with an open mic, taking on some of the cities seasoned vets. It wasnt too long after that he was feeling like a fish that was too big for Montreals pond. He headed to New York where a few good connections lead him to doing tracks with such famed producers as DJ Lethal (House Of Pain, Limp Bizkit) and Rahiem (Grandmaster Flash). But it was at the famed Rock Steady Crews 25th Anniversary where a chance meeting with the legendary Guru of Gangstarr started to get the ball rolling. Within days they were in the studio laying down what would become Never Ending Saga for Gurus Baldhead Slick album that also featured the likes of Ice-T, Killa Priest, DJ Premier and Pete Rock. Bless toured this album as Gurus hype man and got to see the world in turn. 

Bless featured in the 2004 video game, Def Jam: Fight For NY.

2) Bless: Icelandic band (ca 1988-1991) that released the "Melting" EP in 1989 and "Gums" LP in 1990. Björk does backing vocals on two songs on "Gums". The band was led by Dr. Gunni (aka Gunnar Hjálmarsson), who had formerly been in S.H. Draumur and later formed Unun with ex-Sugarcube Þór Eldon.

3) Bénédicte Bless : French songwriter, 1 album "Bless" (Because Music) in 2006, 

4) Bless a hip hop artist signed to Camp Inc. Records. Bless is set to release "Closure" in June 

5) Bless: A Latvian MC

6) Bless: A christian and bolivian band from the city of Santa Cruz. Their first album was made on 2012 with the title "Ven Ahora".

7) Bless is a Brooklyn based artist who currently wrapped her first album entitled "No Need for Privacy". The album was released June 2012. Though her first album, it is in no way her first experience with music. She has traveled the States and Europe performing and gaining experience and recognition. Bless has experimented with different styles ranging from Electronic to Drum and Bass and back. She found a solace in Trip-Hop and her sound encompasses the roots of Jazz, Bass, and Eclectic. With songs like "I Love You" and "Smile" selling big in Europe (Sweden, Norway, Germany) India and around the world, she is establishing her sound in the music community.

8) Bless is a crasher crust band from Kuopio, Finland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.