Blevin Blectum is an electronic musician. Recently relocated from the industrial armpit of Oakland, California, to the humid lovecraftian greenery of Providence, Rhode Island, Blevin releases her soon to be classic fourth solo album, GULAR FLUTTER, on an unsuspecting public via the AAGOO label (New York).

Blevin is alternately known as one half of the recently reformed and reunited groundbreaking digital duo Blectum From Blechdom, recipients of the 2001 Ars Electronica Award of Distinction in Digital Musics (for their album "The Messy Jesse Fiesta"). Blevin moonlights with audio/video band SAGAN alongside her husband and fellow e-musician Lesser, keyboardist Wobbly, and video artiste enfant terrible Ryan Junell. SAGAN released their debut CD/DVD, "Unseen Forces" on the Vague Terrain label (Matmos' vanity label) in 2004, and followed it up with limited edition green vinyl 7" and mini-CD on Oakland's 333 label (the 'Resting Pleasures' EP, 2006).

Blevin produces continued electronics with a more oblique slant on the basic BFB sensation of things-not-quite-right-here, clanking, creaking grooves and anti-grooves as a coal-powered spacecraft from some steampunk parallel universe potentiality, puffing and straining as it struggles to reach escape velocity, chopped, noise-reduced and timed/stretched to the breaking/boiling point, generally fucked-with samples of everything from hand-slapped rain-drenched leaves in courtship gardens and antique broken Beatnik banks to ProTooledFree classic utterly danceable disembodied-blissful-transvestite-stand-up-comic vocals.

In 1999 she was the winner of the 1999 New Langton Arts Music award for her first solo CD "Pirate Planets" on the Phthalo label out of Los Angeles. Her second and third albums, "Talon Slalom" (2004) on Deluxe Records, and "Magic Maple" (2006) on the Praemedia label, were greeted with much critical acclaim.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blevin+Blectum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.