Blighted Touch was formed back in December 2001, originaly under the name Adrenochrome, by Josh Murdock, Sean Kelly,Ryan Bourke and Dave Corbit. The music at first was simple,raw,and catchy. Although the sound was great for some people, the band strived to seperate itself from the rest of the metal scene by creating a sound of its own.A few months into the band, Dave was dropped for personal reasons and Nick was brought in to play bass. His Primus-like sound added some depth to the music. After a year and a half , the band had to say goodbye to its first drummer, Ryan. It was a difficult decision to make, but one the bands vision of music needed a more dynamic individual for the job. Originaly a four piece, for the sound the sound they had wanted, another guitarist was much needed. Adding Tom Brock on drums, and Dave Blye on guitar, Blighted Touch was reborn. With the fast paced drum style Tom added, and the abstract guitar rythems of Dave, Blighted Touch had started weaving together the different styles of metal into one. Adding light, somewhat ambient accustic sounds into the mix as well. The goal was met at last.

Sadly, due to difficult circumstances, the band had to make its toughest decision yet. Letting Dave go. With him being a major catalyst in creating the original sound they had been searching for, it was a choice that Blighted Touch did not want to make. After a long and emotional debate, the decision was made.

The next few months were extremely rough. During that time, no new music was being made and it seemed the band was going nowhere. Because of the lack of progress the band had to make a decision fast, or risk losing all it had worked hard for.

The band took a shot at Jonathan Bernier. Jon's style of guitar playing was a challenge to incorperate into the music.....at first. Being open to all forms of music, the band began to blend his style with the sound they already had. It worked....it worked better than imagined.

Blighted Touch has always saught to seperate itself from the rest of the metal scene. One moment, a nice melodic strumming,the next....pure mayham. The problem with alot of the hard core music today, particularly on the radio, is its too bland. Predictable. Uninspireing. The underground is where the real creativity is at. Probably where it will always be. As long as people come to the shows in droves and buy cd's, metal will always exist...and so will the blight!!!!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blighted+Touch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.