Blind Illusion is an American progressive thrash metal band that was part of the Bay Area thrash metal scene. Formed in 1979 by lead guitarist and chief songwriter Marc Biedermann, the band had an extremely unstable lineup (Biedermann being the only constant member) and even went through a few stylistic changes in their time. They have only released two studio albums throughout their career, The Sane Asylum in 1988 and Demon Master in 2010. 

Original Lineup:
Les Claypool (Primus) and Larry Lalonde (possessed & Primus) 

Current Lineup:
Lists: Mark Biedermann on Guitars and vocalsDoug Piercy on guitarsTom Gears on bass Andy Galeon on drums

In April 2017 Guitar Legend Doug Piercy who has known Mark since 1982 joined forces with his old friend in Blind Illusion. Due to Haralds conflicting bands scheduling, Tom Gears a veteran of many local bands passed audition instantly, replacing Harald O on Bass. After a successful European Tour in the Summer of 2017 Blind Illusion found itself back in rehearsals working on their new EP 2018. In 2018 Blind Illusion embarked on their second European Tour and were featured at the Keep It True Festival in Germany. After the tour Blind Illusion decided to hit the studio with James Boblak mixing/ engineering and mastered by Legendary Mastering Guru Dave Collins. "2018" EP Produced by Doug Piercy and Blind Illusion.

In 2019 the band reached out to Serg MP the bassist for Bestial Invasion to find a touring partner in Europe. He introduced us the band to Fusion Bomb from Luxembourg. The two bands hit it off right away and scheduled the Slam Asylum 2019 tour of Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands. Special thanks for booking the tour are given to Jochen Boellath from Daredevil Records. Many thanks to one of the bands biggest supporters Paul van Rijswijk, guitarist of the Dutch Heavy Metal band Emerald for booking Blind Illusion on the Heavy Metal Maniacs festival in Amstelveen.

After returning from the tour the band is focused on releasing a new album of original music for release in 2021! 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blind+Illusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.