There are multiple artists with the name Blind Justice

1) A New Jersey crossover thrash band with a demo and record coming out on BACK TO BACK at http://blindjustice.bandcamp.com/
2) A Dutch metal band
3) A Greek heavy metal band
4) A Connecticut rap-metal group
5) A straight edge band from Indianapolis
6) An Italian NS-hardcore with melodic death metal elements band.

1) https://www.facebook.com/blindjusticenjhc

2) Dutch metal band Blind Justice originated in the early nineties as a traditional trash metal band with a less traditional line up. Alongside the usual guitars, bass guitar and double bass drumming, there was a huge role for  the violin and the saxophone in their music. 

This concept may sound gimmick-like, but nevertheless the sound of these instruments fitted right into their songs. 

After their first releases (the full length "Sax and Violins" and the EP "In Equilibrium...") they found theirselves a groovier, heavy sound which displays itself on the "Pissed" EP and their second full length release, "Hurt" (Killer Whale Records). Though the album was well received by both fans and press, some fans were quoted the recordings never matched the intensity of the live versions of the songs.  

By now, Blind Justice started a co-operation with the dutch nederhop crew Osdorp Posse, delivering heavy metal grooves to their rap music. Both bands toured intensively together throughout the Netherlands for years.

Blind Justice has known some changes in personnel the last couple of years and as a result their music no longer contains sax or violins. 

3) Blind Justice is also Greek heavy metal band with 2 demo albums : In the name of justice and Time for Justification.

4) Blind Justice is also a hip-hop/metal fusion band from the New Haven, CT area in the USA. They only released one album, Seize the Day, in 1994 on Elevator Music. They were very active on the CT and NY live scenes, but broke up after a few years.

6) An Italian Blind Justice is well produced nationalist metal band with hardcore influences in their music. The song structures are mature but the overall attitude is positively hateful like the true metal music is supposed to be. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blind+Justice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.