In 1991, Fritz Patrick joined with cousin Tim Cardoza to form a band called S.S. Dagger in Hayward, California. Between the two of them, they began composing the first songs of the current set, which were: "Wretched Man," and "Doctor of Destruction." Within a few months they had already four more songs and began seeking a drummer.

As fate would have it, Douglas Teixeira, another fellow cousin, moved to the Bay Area from Reno, Nevada in 1992.
Having held the drummer position in bands such as Robyn Danger, Overlord, and Last Descendents, as well as touring with Y&T, Douglas was ready to join the band.

Rounding out the lineup on guitar was Kaz Suda of Tokyo, Japan, at that time a graphic arts student of UC Berkeley.

In August, 1993, S.S. Dagger released "Rest In Peaces," a four-song EP which was produced by John Dote at Celebrity Studios in Hayward.
It received widespread recognition, including A&R response from several agencies and record labels. However, Kaz graduated from UC Berkeley and returned to Tokyo within six months, leaving the band without a guitar player.

For many months after, the threesome searched for a replacement. In November, 1994, Len Goldschmidt, from Poughkeepsie, New York filled the vacant slot on guitar.
The band returned to gigging and added second guitarist Russ Farnsworth from San Rafael, California in June, 1995.

In November, 1995, the band recorded "Look Out Below," a five-song tape which was produced by Mark Schleunes at Crow Magnon Music in Oakland, California.
This EP featured new songs from both Tim and Len, plus some dramatic art direction which took a lot of work to complete. Distributed to Metal fans worldwide, it has also received very high marks.

In November, 1996, Russ left the band to pursue personal interests. He was replaced by Chuck Aldrich of Livermore, California.
With the new five-man lineup, the band played as many shows as possible and began working on the new songs for the band's set. A year later, Chuck made his departure from S.S. Dagger to concentrate on other projects.

The band continued searching for another rhythm player, holding auditions regularly but continuing on as a four-man group.
In August of 1999, recording began for the band's first LP: PAWNS OF THE PREDATOR at Studio 880 in Oakland, California.
The album was a collection of the band's published work to this point. Three days were spent recording, mixing, and mastering the tracks.

The session was engineered by Mr. Michael Rosen, who had worked with bands like TESTAMENT and FLOTSAM AND JETSAM.
A few months later, the recording was re-mixed and tracked in 2 days, with an additional day of mastering at Pork Muffin Studios in Fremont, California. The session was engineered by Bob Nunes and Kelly Bennett.

By mid-1999, a discussion began about the band name. While unique and catchy in nature, the controversy surrounding it posed a few challenges for the band.
Some venues resisted booking the band, and others jumped to conclusions about the band's political or social views, only because of the 3rd Reich association with the name.
In November, 1999, the band voted to change the name to BLITZENHAMER, and a new logo was designed. The old name was retired, but the musical attitude and content remained intact.

By June of 2000, the artwork was completed for the album by Myron Whisler, currently the drummer for CHAMBER SEVEN.
The album has been well received by many metal fans abroad. The band is now shopping the album and looking to secure a European tour, while hammering out the next crop of new material, and playing live gigs on every stage they can find.
The band was featured on the San Bernardino, California NOVEMBER to DISMEMBER metalfest in November, 2000.
While short, the performance of BLITZENHAMER was sweet enough for representatives of the Dutch Heavy Metal magazine AARDSCHOK to pick up a copy of PAWNS OF THE PREDATOR and bring it home.
It received a full score (100/100) in the January issue, and spurred interest of A&R and the metal press all over Europe. Since then, a number of European publications have featured the band and their LP: "PAWNS OF THE PREDATOR" as a new metal force from America.

In August, 2001, the band played Metalfest XV in Milwaukee, WI on the digital metal stage, with some added theatrics to one of their thrashing tracks: "ALIENUS "MAXIMUS." Many metal fans from North Carolina to Thunder Bay, Ontario were witness to the high toned metal attack.

In November, 2001, the band was in San Francisco attending a concert at Maritime Hall, which was to be its last show before it was closed down. At this point in time, they met Shawn Davis, originally from Seattle, WA.

A San Francisco resident for over 9 years, Shawn had attended Musician's Institute and played in local bands such as THE BEGGARS for many years. His skills with the guitar were razor-sharp, and he auditioned for the second guitarist spot in BLITZENHAMER. Shawn played his first show with the band in February, 2002, and the lineup has never been stronger.

Their next recording will be produced at THOR STUDIOS in Fremont, CA, and the band's future is to record, tour, and keep playing together forever <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blitzenhamer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.