Guitarist Luis "Lucho" Sanchez (ex-Disinter, Bleed of Hate, NECROPSYA) began in 2006 Blizzard as a project inspired in the album "Blizzard Of Oz", being at first a tribute to The Madman accompanying guitarist in the first stage: Oscar "Bull" Strong (vocals) Alonso Perez (vocals), Luis Enrique Eguren (bass), Martin Maldonado (drums) and Lucy Ibanez (keys). Continuing in later years versioning and covering live big bands of Metal such as Iron Maiden, Metallica, Kiss, Judas Priest, Megadeth ... In the early days theband composed by Luis Sanchez and Sergio Quiquén (guitars), Lalo “Indú” Salas (bass) and Juan Miguel Leon (drums), had the great privilege of playing live as the support band of vocalist Tim "Ripper" Owens (Beyond Fear, ex-Iced Earth, Judas Priest ...) on 27 September 2009 concert in the Mao Bar of Lima (Peru).

This band was just a tribute and cover playing stuff. Like lots of bands, this was just a fun thing Lucho started. But after having lots of gigs, the guys decided to change the way this was for them and started to make their own songs. With a more solid formation composed by Mauricio Medina (vocals), Lucho Sanchez, Toño “Wild Rocker” Rojas (guitars), Lalo “Indú” Salas and Giancarlo Briceño (drums) the band recorded a demo back in 2011, but this was never released in any physical format. After several months playing alive, in 2012 the band decided to stop playing with Mauricio in vocals and wanted to hire a new vocalist. In the way of this, in town there were new bands: younger people between 17 and 20 years. There’s where they found Sebastian “Dragon” Palma, and with only 17 years old he joined the band. This became a complete different thing. A new sound, younger blood, and a lot of enthusiasm entered on the band and things changed for better. After a whole year practicing, changing drummer (Juan Miguel Leon will return on early 2013) and composing new songs the band prepared for entering the studio and record their first production. During 2013 the band entirely dedicated to finish their song compositions, re-edit some of them and even entirely changing some lyrics. Blizzard will enter to record their first full –Length material. After the recording of the album, a new drummer will enter to complete the final band’s line-up and the band will establish like this:

Luis “Lucho” Sanchez – Guitars

Sebastian “Dragon” Palma – Vocals

Toño “Wild Rocker” Rojas – Guitars

Lalo “Indú” Salas – Bass

And the new comer : Daniel “Frost” Ruiz de Castilla – Drums

With this line-up, now in earlier 2014, the band finished to record their material. 

After several discussions, several thinking and wanting to give the band a brand new face, the band decided to change their name and Blizzard became “Blizzard Hunter”, inspired in some old stories and videogames they will add this to their name for reinventing their self after lots of changes. Like a Phoenix resurrecting from their ashes, the band got their new face and in April of the same year, an independent Irish Label – Sarlacc Productions – will release their first production: a 3 songs EP “Conqueror of Destiny” , (including the same ones on the demo back in 2011 but with a new sound, some new lyrics and a new feeling), as a limited to 100 copies tape edition.

Now the band’s been offered to release their Full-Length album by PureSteel Records (GER). This album will include the EP and 7 new songs for the record! The band is now preparing everything for this, a video has been pronounced and the stuff is ready to kill everybody! Heavy metal right to the vein is coming for everyone! Nothing’s missing right now so let’s wait for Blizzard Hunter to attack and release their raging music! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blizzard+Hunter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.