Blockheads were formed in 1992 and released their first demo, Haaashaastaak, in 1993. In 1995, they released their first studio album, Last Tribes, and a further album, Watch Out, followed in 1998, after the band had experienced some line-up difficulties.

In 2000, Blockheads signed with Bones Brigade, a label which specialises in extreme music. Their first two albums were re-released together on Bones Brigade, under the title From Womb to Genocide. A third album was released in 2001 (Human Parade) and in the next few years, the band participated in numerous festivals, causing them to become known as an important grindcore band in the European extreme music scene.

In 2006, the band released the album Shapes of Misery, on Overcome Records, which made Blockheads the undisputed leaders of French grindcore.

During their career, the band has played concerts with such notable acts as Napalm Death, Nasum, Obituary, Entombed, Sick of it All, Carcass, Soulfly and Mumakil.

Blockheads can be a incorrect tag for Ian Dury & the Blockheads.

Band 2
The Blockheads are Ian Dury's Band. They continue to tour after the death of Ian Dury and have released band albums; "Where's The Party" in 2004, and "Staring Down The Barrel" in 2009. The band has also contributed to a tribute album "Brand New Boots And Panties" in 2001 with various lead singers for each track.
The Definitive "The" is not present on all album titles indicating the group are called "Blockheads" and the inclusion of "The" is a grammatical addition indicating the specific group as to other terms.


Band 3
Blockheads is the name of an independent group from Germany, Not much can be found from their social medias, but their first upload to Youtube would be a drum recording of their song "The Chance" in 2010, which would be fully completed later on in the year. Much of their popularity comes from Montage Rock, a Youtube channel that specializes in promoting copyright free rock music for people to use as they want, as long as they give credit to the original maker.

Since 2010, they have not released an actual album or EP, but they have released seven singles over the years in including "Rise" (2013) which has over 6 million plays on Spotify. Other singles include "Because of Me" (2013), "Stereo" (2013), "Fallen" (2014), "Can't Get Enough" (2016), "Stay The Night" (2017) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blockheads">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.