Blodspor is a five piece band from Oslo, Norway. Since their formation in 2006 they have steadily
built up a name for themselves as a band to watch out for and they have constantly been building
their reputation as a rock solid live act. Their passion for music knows no boundaries, and always
aims to expand the musical horizon.

The band has always believed that the very foundation of their music is to not limit themselves,
neither musically nor artistically. The music consists of elements from grindcore, punk-rock,
hardcore, death metal and black metal, and even some elements of progressive music. This fusion of
genres has made their music unpredictably playful and unique.

On stage Blodspor always gives 110% every time and they are renowned for their technically precise
time signatures and their live enthusiasm. Blodspor won the Deathmatch 2009, a local battle of the
bands competition, which was held in Oslo, Norway and reached the finals of the Wacken Metal
Battle earlier that same year, competing for a spot at the Wacken Metal Festival in Germany. They
also played for packed houses 3 days in a row during By:Larm 2009, one of the largest musical
conferences in Europe. In 2010 they got a spot on the Inferno Metal Festival (10th anniversary
edition), which has become one of the largest, most respected and important extreme metal festivals
in northern Europe. All of this even before they had their first full length album out.

Blodspor`s goal has always been to expand and grow musically and take their sound to new and
unexplored territory. In 2010 they recorded their first full length album “Laughing through the
Violence” at Soft Pyramid studio. The album was produced by Christian Wibe, founding member
and guitarist of Animal Alpha. With “Laughing through the Violence”, Blodspor focused on capturing
the live feeling of the band as well as creating something new, fresh and diverse within the metal
universe.

Blodspor have never been afraid of treading new ground and they are always in search of reaching
new audiences both domestically and nationally. The band is predicted a bright future both from
critics and audiences alike, and with dedication and hard work Blodspor is ready to take on every
opportunity that comes their way.

Their debut album will be in stores around Europe from 20. May

"What would have happened if Neurosis ended up on an absinthe binge with Mastodon and Darkest
Hour? - The combination would have been wonderfully nihilistic and devastatingly brutal, and it
would sound just like Blodspor! A new chapter in Norwegian metal […]” – www.tiger.no

“Blodspor is serving death metal with hints of punk and hardcore. They bring thoughts back e.g.
Shai-Hulud. The band appears as a tight and impressive live experience.” - http://www.groove.no/
artikkel/19318788/inferno-metal-festival-2010

“We have a varied and great set with lots of greasy groove, a pair of excellent riffs and great
enthusiasm. The music is difficult to place, but ranges from good old groovy death metal, punk and
hardcore back over to some nice Primus related riffs. Most of all, I am impressed with the band as a
whole, which is coordinated and well-oiled. I realize quickly that the audience agrees when the railing
in front is on the verge of tipping over and there is a full house all the way back to the mixing desk.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blodspor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.