Jesper Forselius from the small town Gnarp in the north of Sweden has not only made a name for himself as one of the most perverted men north of Reeperbahn, and a very talented drummer as well. He has also recorded some extremely hard postmortem tapes the last few years, under the moniker Blod, although up to now nothing has been made available to the public. This is probably because Mr. Forselius rather spends his time lurking around bus-stops to accost poor little schoolgirls. And who could blame him for not having time to distribute tapes to ungrateful onanists, when you can fantasize about snot-nosed, teenage girls wetting their (or maybe rather Jesper's own) black jeans. However, when he every now and then manages to pull himself to channel his perversions through music, he has sometimes managed to make such insanely intense, screeching and violent music that one can only wonder what kind of sick brain that is responsible.
The Blod tapes I have had the pleasure to listen to, have not yet failed to make me excited. Everything hasn't been 100% worked-through all the time, but every tape has had enough gems to keep me wanting more. And now it seems that the time has come to set Blod loose on an unsuspecting audience. Jesper have now made available the most recent Blod recordings as three shiny urine-golden CDs. All in all, these are some of the most absurdly minimalistic records I've ever heard. The first time I listened to the first one "Starbright" it struck me how similar all songs were, almost identical it seemed. Though I soon realised I had to yield to the sheer will-power at display. The songs are all based on (very dominant) pure white noise, sometimes accompanied by screeching high frequency tones and feedback, at other times with a more bass-heavy sound. You could be forgiven for thinking Whitehouse circa Peter Kürten/New Britain.The other records, "Country Girl Perversion" and "Pleasurable Figures in Filth", make it perfectly clear that Jesper knows very well whathe's doing. Both are excellent collections of roar, distortion and rumbling that almost drown any variation in the music. Music for the crotch! I can recommend all Blod recordings with the utmost sincerity, as long as you are willing to let the music get the upper hand. Say what you want, but it sure is noise! I'd even call it meditative, if that word wasn't stigmatized by all the incense/peace/love nonsense. And if you get aroused by song titles like She piss in her jeans and like to show it or Pall Mall cigaretteburns and cumstains! Well, isn't it nice to know that there are other like you?

previously published in Soma and Cold Meat Industry Newsletter. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.