BLODWEN (meaning: /white flower/ in Welsh) is a symphonic metal band from Jakarta, Indonesia.

Blodwen was first named Private Joker, and founded by lead vocalist and songwriter Bernice Nikki in her high school years. Private Joker was officially set up in 2004 as a Japanese Rock cover band. After gaining a modest fame among the community, they had to suffer hiatus due to Bernice's departure for further studies. In this moment of absence, guitar virtuoso Alexander Lexy joined Private Joker in 2007 and introduced the band to European metal and influenced the band greatly.

Despite their distance, Bernice kept writing songs and sending them to Lexy to be arranged and produced. By then, the band's sound had changed drastically - leaving their Japanese Rock influence behind; which eventually led them to 2009, which marked the official change of Private Joker to BLODWEN.

In the same year, Blodwen was contracted by Red Rivet Records - an independent metal label from Japan. Blodwen's debut album "Black Symphony" was released in 2010 in both Japan and Indonesia, and by 2011 had reached Germany, North America, France, Spain, Norway, etc. Reviews from all over the world had shown great potential in Blodwen - and this was just the beginning. 

Bernice graduated from her studies in Performing Arts in 2010, and went back to Indonesia to pursue her artistic career with the band. For awhile, Blodwen was back active on live stages. 

However, 2012 marked another change, with members of Blodwen resigning from the band due to day job pressure, with only Bernice and Lexy remained. It was then left-handed bass slayer, Bayu Djody Gondokusumo (ex-Dreamer, Oracle), decided to join the band. With the new line-up, Blodwen is set to a greater journey in the future.

Blodwen is:
+ Bernice "Bee" Nikki (Founder, Lead Vocals, Songwriter)
+ Alexander Lexy (Founder, Lead Guitars, Arranger)
+ Bayu Djody Gondokusumo (Bass)

Blodwen Official Website(s):
www.myspace.com/blodwenband
www.facebook.com/blodwenofficial
twitter.com/blodwenband

Contact:
Email: blodwenband@yahoo.com
Manager: Anton Fernandez (+62 815 8999 369) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blodwen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.