Bloke refers to more than one artist.

Bloke is the recording name of Israeli electronic music artist Yaniv Navot. Bloke specializes in creating provocative electronic music with emotive and original elements. Taken from: http://www.Bloke-Music.com

Bloke, was a US style 1980's Power Metal band from Argentina.
Founded in 1982 they first changed the singers several times. With Billy they recorded their album in 1984, and this got a real masterpiece! From the 80s records this is the best. It is US style Power Metal. At this time they were not very successful with that (may be also because of the ugly cover of a demolition machine), and their small label did not help them much. In the band were also many problems, and when they got ready to record a second album, singer Billy told them he will leave the band. So they split before they even recorded something more. Billy sung for a while in the band 6L6 and than went to California and made a demo with the band THE CROSS. The guitar player Marcelo Simoni later played with the band MADAM normal Hard Rock and they recorded a album "Decide tu corazon" (only as LP cassette and as 2 track promo single). Before this band disappeared BLOKE bass player Daniel Parodi joined for a while (the singer was from APOCALIPSIS, the old band of TREN LOCO bass player Gustavo). To find this record is really hard, and I have never seen it on a list.
The name of BLOKE seems to have been not forgotten in Argentina! Finally 2 great fans of the band (Fabian from "Metalica" fanzine, and Pocho Metalica from "Hurling Metal records")were sick of the rarity of the LP! They bought the rights of the album, and released it now finally on CD! As Bonus it contains 2 great unreleased old songs. One is an instrumental from 1982, and the other a song with the singer Hugo Brandsburg. But this is not enough, as there were also 6 tribute songs recorded, and put on this CD! This is really value for money!! Most of this versions are a bit tamer than the original, like the ones from GARGOLA; MONTREAL; CORSARIO And ASPEED, but the bands made really interesting versions! Only the 2 tracks from RENACER and TREN LOCO have the rawness and power of BLOKE, and are great interpretations! On top of it, they made a new cover, which has the same motif, but the art has now much more power! The original was really too helarious! At the end of 2002 there was a festival, with the tribute bands for the promotion of this CD, where Marcelo Simoni came on stage for some songs! The same happened again in Santa FE. A real reunion is impossible, as singer Billy lives now again in the US again and has no interess in his old band anymore! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.