There are two artists sharing the name Blond:

1) Blond are  an indie / pop / las vegas glamour band from Chemnitz, Germany. Band members are Johann Bonitz, Lotta and Nina Kummer. 

2) Formed in Gothenberg, Sweden, in 1964, as the Tages Skiffle Band, this versatile act originally comprised of Tommy Blon (lead vocals), Danne Larsen (guitar, vocals), Anders Topel (guitar, vocals), Goran Lagerberg (bass, vocals) and Freddie Skantze (drums). Skantze was succeeded by Tommy Tausis in 1966 and then by Lasse Svensson in 1967. Having become known simply as the Tages, they became one of Sweden's leading beat groups with a number of excellent singles. Several were cover versions of US and UK hits, notably "I'll Be Doggone" and "Crazy 'Bout My Baby" (both 1966), while their debut album revealed an affinity for R&B with strong readings of "Dimples" and "I Got My Mojo Workin'".Sadly the Tages were unable to repeat their Scandinavian success and Tommy Blon opted to leave the line-up. He began a short-lived solo career. The remaining musicians took a new name Blond, but they split up in 1970. Only Goran Lagerberg remained active in music; he joined a succession of progressive rock-styled bands, none of which matched the highlights achieved by the Tages.

Eurovision Song Contest 1997 - Dublin
Entry for Sweden

Performer: Blond
Song title: Bara Hon älskar Mig
Song writer(s):
Song composer(s): Stephan Berg 

Sang in Position:  16
Final Position:  14
Total Points:  36

Just like in 1993, 1994 and 1995, Ireland hosted the 1997 Eurovision Song Contest for the fourth time in the 1990's and for the third time in Dublin's Point Theatre. This year the number of participants rose to 25 again. The 1996 audio preselection procedure was dropped for a new system: the average results of all countries in the last five song contests were measured, and the 25 countries that had done best qualified for the final in Dublin. Israel withdrew voluntarily, and Bosnia & Herzegovina took their place. Belgium, Finland, Romania and Slovakia were forced to take a break from Eurovision this year.

Irish broadcaster RTÉ spent a lot of money for the set with a great result: The stage was spectacular and gave the viewer the impression of a cave. Televoting was introduced this year in the United Kingdom, Sweden, Austria, Switzerland and Germany and it would be extended to almost all participating countries in the following 1998 contest. It was the year the Eurovision Song Contest tried to appeal to the younger generation. Irish boy band Boyzone were the interval act and their lead singer Ronan Keating co-hosted the evening. The opening sequence included messages from former contest stars, including Céline Dion and Morten Harket, beamed onto a massive video wall. 

Russia's Alla Pugacheva sang Primadonna - she was convinced of victory and demanded a limousine to pick her up when she arrived at the airport. Her Primadonna antics did not impress anyone, however, and she came only 15th. Another Eurovision Song Contest Primadonna was Icelandic singer Paul Oscar, a star as big as Björk in his native country. His performance was breathtaking as he sang on a white leather sofa, flanked by four women in leather dominatrix outfits.

For the fifth time in the history of the contest, the United Kingdom won. With the song Love Shine A Light, Katrina & the Waves scored an unprecedented 227 points. The total score for the United Kingdom included five sets of '10 points' and a record-breaking ten sets of '12 points'. The record was not equalled before 2005 when Helena Paparizou would win for Greece. However, in 2005, 39 countries would cast their votes, compared to a modest 25 in 1997. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blond">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.