There are several artists called 'Bloody Mary' : 

01) a French female DJ aka Marjorie Migliaccio
02) an Italian gothic rock/metal band who were signed to Dave Pybus' (Cradle of Filth) own label SixSixSix Records
03) a Japanese Visual Kei band
04) Thrash/Crossover band from Abu Dhabi, UAE (2005-07)
05) an American hard rock band from the 70's
06) A French 90s Goth band.
07) a French rock band featuring Manu Livertout (Manu Livertout Band, Boy Damon T)
08) a Finnish punk rock band formed in 1976
09) an American thrash metal band from Charlotte, NC formed 1989
10) an American Speed / Thrash Metal from NY
11) an all-female punk rock band from Vienna, Austria active in the mid/late 90s
12) An American rapper from Richmond, VA

1) Marjorie Migliaccio AKA Bloody Mary began her DJ career in her homeland of France in the early part of the decade, growing up in the region of Aix en Provence. By 2005 she had established a reputation that brought her to some of Europe's biggest clubs, such as Rex and Watergate. After relocating to Berlin, she began her interest in production, signed a pair of EPs on Sender Records, and took off on the international DJ circuit, touring throughout North and South America. 
Inspired by new wave and early electronic dance music plus the mystifying cultures surrounding her, Mary is always on the lookout for new sounds and fresh music. Her sets provide a fine example of the forthcoming movements and throughout the explosion of the techno scene Mary found her own unique approach. 
A world tour celebrates this release, taking Mary to Asia and a return to the US including a stop in Detroit. Mary began collaborating with Sierra Sam last year, releasing a pair of EPs on Einmaleins and ToyForBoys (who will also release her first DJ mix compilation 'Tanz mit mir' this June). Outside of her solo work, she is one-third of the newly formed group Gypsy Family, along with her friends Quenum (Cadenza) and Dachshund (Num).
Jay Haze's Contexterrior imprint released Black PearI by Bloody Mary, the first artist album to appear on the label in its seven-year history and also her debut full-length. Bloody Mary presents 11 tracks that explore techno, melodic ambience and haphazard broken beats, resulting in an album that stays true to the spirit of Contexterrior: dancefloor expediency balanced with unapologetic experimentalism. 
www.myspace.com/djbloodymary

2) The band as they are now did not come together until 2003, when they released the promo "Red" but guitarist Stranger and bassist LaRouge had been collaborating since early 2000. They are gothic metal in style with subtle nods to bands such as HIM and Fields of the Nephilim but their style is still distinctly different. Their live shows have been given great reviews and their debut "Blood 'n' Roll" rated favourably with such magazines as Kerrang and Terrorizer. 
http://www.myspace.com/bloodymary

3. Ｂｌｏｏｄｙ Ｍａｒｙ

12) Bloody Mary (aka Diamondsonmydick, fka Blood Diamonds On My Dick, Emo Boy, and YUNG UGLY AKA LIL 777) is an American recording artist and producer from Richmond, VA. He is the founder of Vampstar Records and Reptilian Club Boyz and is a member of SpaceGhostPurrp's collective VODECi. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloody+Mary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.