Bloodrocuted is a Belgian metal band, mixing the speed of Thrash metal with the brutality and agressiveness of Death metal.

At age of 13 Bloodrocuted　was founded in a basement in Brussels by Daan Swinnen and Bob Briessinck. The guys dreamt of taking over the world someday with their relentless and agressive view on　Thrash-metal. After a short period of time Jason Bond and Gaetan de Vos (RIP) joined the band. The band started recording their first album "doomed to annihilation". This album was widely considered as a great debut-album, reminding fans about the 80's bay area Thrash scene.
What followed was a long series of shows throughout Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands supporting bands like Skeletonwitch, Havok, Darkness, Melechesch, Mystifier,… 
　
In 2015 Bloodrocuted released their follow-up album "disaster strikes back". 
The band expanded its horizons by incorporating teutonic Thrash, blastbeats and Death metal vocals.　To promote this album they toured Europe alongside Suicidal angels, dr living dead and Angelus apatrida. 
　
Shortly after this tour drummer Gaetan de Vos quitted the band due to other interests, and deserter drummer Sander Vogt Joined the band. Together with Sander Bloodrocuted toured the UK, played the main stage of Antwerp metal fest, supported bands like Havok, Nervosa, Enthroned, voivod… and played the prestigious metal days festival in Slovenia.
　
After two years of intensive touring and playing, Bob and Sander decided to call it a quits in 2016, this to explore other boundaries. Quickly after this news, Ben Van Peteghem and Dennis Wyffels were introduced into the band. They started recording their third album "for the dead travel fast" due to be released in march 2017. More intense than ever before, Bloodrocuted is there to stay and make the worldwide metal scene their own.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodrocuted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.