From the most southern point in Canada, Leamington Ontario comes this 5 piece female fronted metalcore band. BLOODSHOTEYE rhythm section has been playing together under various names since 96. In the summer of 2002 Jesicka joined the band providing very unique vocals to bring forth the solid line up that is BLOODSHOTEYE. 

After playing through out Ontario for over a year and recording a couple demos BLOODSHOTEYE went into the studio in early fall of 2003 to record their debut CD entitled Without Any Remorse. Featuring guest vocals on F.U.B.A.R and Bad Trip by one of the most charismatic front men in metal today D. Randall Blythe of Lamb of God. The CD which features 8 strong but uniquely different songs will be released in June 2004 on Canada's own Galy Records. The artwork and layout of the album was done at Dissonance Studios who's done work for bands such as Descend into Nothingness and Blood of Christ. 

BLOODSHOTEYE live show is a very aggressive, intense in your face experience that must be seen to believe. Feeding off each others energy they create an explosion of sound on stage. BLOODSHOTEYE have created a unique "deathmetalcore" style from the lowest growl to the heaviest breakdown they use all elements of every genre of metal.

Canadian deathcore act Bloodshoteye have perfected their craft and are back in full-force with 'An Unrelenting Assault', a more mature and brutal album. Heavier and faster than the debut, the album serves up enough breakdowns, blast beats, melody and an undeniable groove alongside catchy riffs that you'll have a hard time getting them out of your head. Produced by J-F Dagenais (Kataklysm, Misery Index), vocal production by D. Randall Blythe (Lamb of God), mastered by Alan Douches (God Forbid, Unearth). With special guest Alex Erian (Despised Icon) appearing on the track "The Last Laugh". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodshoteye">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.