1) Bloodline is a Swedish black metal band who utilize some industrial, dark ambient and electronic influences on their music. Their sound is cold and mechanically plodding due to their use of a drum machine, and their line-up is quite legendary: the band's main members are Sasrof (Diabolicum) and Wredhe (Ondskapt, Shining). Since its inception, the band has also featured members from other bands such as Setherial, Naglfar, Nattefrost, Carpathian Forest, and Aborym. They have released two EPs and two full-length albums.

2) Bloodline was an American blues rock band composed of the sons of several well-known rock musicians. It was also Joe Bonamassa's first band. Bloodline signed to Varese Sarabande/Capitol in 1994 and released one self-titled album. The group's members were Erin Davis (son of Miles Davis), Waylon Krieger (son of Robby Krieger), and Berry Oakley, Jr. (son of Berry Oakley), along with Joe Bonamassa, whose parents were not famous musicians. Warren Haynes made a guest appearance on the album. The record produced one hit single, "Stone Cold Hearted", which reached #32 on the Billboard Mainstream Rock Tracks chart. The group split some time after the release of the record.

3) Bloodline was also an early-90's hardcore band from Minneapolis.

4) Bloodline is a Grime collective that President T, Big H, Paper Pabs, Skepta, 9 Milli Major & Bossman  formed after Meridian Crew fell apart.

5) Bloodline is a metal band consisting of Ronnie Edwards, Barney Hull, James Gold and Aidan Scally. After forming in mid-lockdown, Bloodline started rehearsing in a small, sweaty shed in the suburbs of Chelmsford. They started out by playing Slipknot, Iron Maiden, Bullet For My Valentine and Mötley Crüe. Eventually getting better at playing, the trio consisted of Aidan Scally, Ronnie Edwards and Barney Hull, the band started rehearsing in a small studio in Writtle, Chelmsford called Card Trick Music. The band still rehearse there with along with other Essex acts such as Bilk.
 
The band started out by posting videos of them playing songs on Instagram, trying to build a following. However, on August 4th, after spending two weeks recording, the debut single, Bloodline was released. The song has a feeling of Guns N' Roses, Mammoth WVH and Metallica all mixed into one, with lyrics relating to the stress on being young and not having a voice. 
 
Less than a month later, the band acquired bassist Freddie “FJ Miller” Spiller, who has changed the band for the better. Bloodline played their first ever gig on the 7th of April 2022 at the Crown in Hornchurch, of which Steve Harris from Iron Maiden’s side project, British Lion had played before.
 
On June 11th, they released  One to Ten, their debut ep.

Due to complications within the band, Spiller left and has been replaced by Risen Ashes frontman, James Gold.

6) Bloodline is a Becej (Vojvodina - Serbia) based metal core/HC/punk band.

7) Bloodline is a Horrorcore (Hip Hop) group hailing from South Carolina.

8)Bloodline is an Alternative Metalcore band from Dallas, Texas. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodline">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.