Død started his musical career in the legendary Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. 19 years old he was picked out to be their live guitarist from 1996 to 1999. Playing black metal in Satyricon, there were never a question, death metal was Død's major passion and in 1998 he started working on material for his own death metal band. His friend Tchort (Emperor, Carpathian Forest), who also played bass in Satyricon, shared the same passion and Blood Red Throne was officially a band. 
Shortly after, the young and talented bass player Erlend Caspersen was found and the search for a drummer and singer could start! There weren't any suitable drummers around in our hometown at that time, but after a while we got in touch with Freddy Bolsø, who just moved to town to study! He was just the drummer we were looking for and it was amazing to start rehearsing on our material. 
We soon wanted to record a demo and we invited Ronnie Thorsen from Trail of Tears to help us out with the vocals. This became the Deathmix 2000 demo, which led to a record deal with Hammerheart Records. 
Our debut album had to be recorded, but we still hadn't found a permanent singer. Just 3 weeks before entering studio, we asked long time friend, Mr.Hustler, to join the band. He had never played in a band or done some vocals ever before, but Monument of Death became a fuckin' killer debut album, released in 2001! The limited edition included a package called 'The Suicide Kit', which not only contained the actual album, but also a printed razor blade and a poster. The kits were hand numbered in the band member's own blood! 
We never did any live shows with this line up and Freddy Bolsø moved back to his hometown and we had to find a new drummer. Espen "Beist" Antonsen(The Sickening) joined the band and we recorded Affiliated With The Suffering in 2002 and this was our last album on Hammerheart Records. We got on our first European tour and we did two of them with this line-up and we played at the Inferno Festival and some other festivals in this period. 
Nothing lasts forever and Beist left the band when we were about to record our first album on Earache Records. But we got some incredible help from Bernt Moen and we managed to record our darkest and most intense album ever, Altered Genesis, released in 2005. 
After this release, Mr. Hustler had to make a choice due to his work commitments, so he left the band as friends and a new friend of us, Vald, was handed the microphone. We also had to find a permanent drummer, and this led us to Anders Haave. He joined the band in 2006 and we went on a new European tour and did several live shows until we got in studio to record our fourth album, Come Death, on Earache Records. It was released in 2007 and by the end of the year, we did a new European tour with Divine Heresy. 
2008 was a slow year for us on the live front, but we wrote the material for our 5th album, Souls of Damnation and released this in 2009! This also featured a cool DVD. 
After this release, Tchort decided to have a break to focus on his family and work. Nevertheless, the band went out on their first headliner European Tour in October 2009 with Hate. This was the first tour with only Død on guitar.
Anders decided to leave the band late 2009. He was replaced with the Swedish wonder boy, Emil Wiksten.
Later, we decided to bring a friend of us, Ivan "Meathook" Gujic, as a session guitar player while Tchort still had his break. The first gig with this line-up was a festival in Italy we headlined. In September 2010 we also played in Mexico for the first time. This was a special event for us, especially since Mr. Hustler did the vocals after leaving the band 5 years ago, since Vald couldn't make this trip. 
One of BRT's highlights happened at the end of 2010, when we went on tour with Dimmu Borgir and Enslaved across the states and Canada! 
A lot of things happened in 2011. Ivan Gujic became a permanent member of Blood Red Throne. We signed with US label Sevared Records and released our 6th full length album, Brutalitarian Regime. We returned to Mexico and also played several summer festivals. We toured the US/Canada again with Grave for 4 weeks.
Unfortunately, Erlend Caspersen and Vald decided to leave due to family and work related issues October 2011. They were replaced by Ole Bent Madsen on bass guitar and Bolt on vocals December 2011. 
The new line-up went back to Europe and toured with Suffocation in March 2012.
June 2012, BRT played Hellfest with major acts like Ozzy, Motley Crue and Guns n Roses.
In November 2012, BRT headlined their first Norwegian tour…
May 2013, the 7th studio album, simply entitled Blood Red Throne, was released, also celebrating the band’s 15th anniversary. Following up with a headliner European Tour in May/June.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blood+Red+Throne">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.