The band was formed by two gentlemen Niko Karppinen (ex-Maple Cross/ex-Legenda/ex-Plan E) and Petteri Lammassaari (ex-Agnus Dei/Faff-Bey) in one somewhat alcohol-filled evening of 2000 when the guys accidentally met each other at a gig of Tarot in Helsinki and started to warm up an idea of forming their own band. With Niko on guitar and Petteri on drums, and inspired by such Thrash Metal acts as Testament, Slayer, Anthrax and Exodus, this combos musical direction was soon ready to take its very first steps on the soil of old-school thrash Metal; only the remaining musicians for bass, another guitar and vocals needed to be found. Soon, however, the remaining 3 guys were recruited to the line-up of Bloodride; Teemu Vahakangas (ex-Astaroth/ex-Yell/Unshine) came to another guitar, Esa Pennala (ex-Rutja/ex-Unshine) took a 4-stringer and Jyrki Leskinen (ex-Sindeep) found himself behind the microphone. After some hard training, the band was ready to thrash out their 1st ever demo. First demo was released in April 2003 and got somewhat good response. In the spring of 2004 Bloodride entered in the studio again with 6 new tracks to record MCD "Bloodridden Disease" which got great response very widely. 
After releasing "Bloodridden Disease" band stormed thru several gigs in Finland with acts like Codeon, Maple Cross, Diamanthian etc.
In the spring of 2007 Bloodride entered in the studio again with 6 new tracks, Three of 'em ended to Promo 2007. Some more gigs and new songs composed.
Finally in June 2009 Bloodride started recordings of their debutalbum in D-Studios and after several sessions 13 new songs of thrashing mayhem were recorded. Album will be titled "Crowned In Hell" and it will out later this year. Before that there will be single "Supreme Predator" which is OUT NOW!

You can also find two new tracks from up there! Cheers!!!



www.bloodride.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodride">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.