“When life is a stormy sea of addiction and grief, music could be a strong lighthouse”.
 
 Blood Red Water formed in the summer of 2010 with Michele (vocals, ex grindcore bands: NAB and Grunter Screams) Fiorica (ex and bass player in Blank Symbol, now at the drum). Michele & Fiorica were longtime friends, drinking partners and united by the passion for sludge music so they decided to create somethin...g wicked.
 Immediately Francesco “Volt” (of mr. Boonekamp) joined them as guitarist and feedback noise junkie, so Mick, Fiorica and Volt started to create their music as Blood Red Water.
 
 Tarantula (Lorenzo Petri from Gli sportivi , Valium doll) as bass player joined them after few months.

 For Blood Red Water it became clear that the band would not be the umpteenth cover band in the zone but their interest/purpose is writing the music they like and feel.
 All members love bands like EyeHateGod, Eletric Wizard, St. Vitus (list of musical influences is long, very long) but - jam after jam - they realized to not belong to any particular genre. Some tunes are pretty doomy,  other tunes could be more into stoner stuff.
 Blood Red Water lyrics are a merciless portrait of what can save a life or ditch it. Far away from fantasy themes, lyrics give off Michele’s life experience; you can even find redeem words as well as the deepest dopesick despair.
 At the end of 2011, they entered at the Flameout studio and they did their first 5 songs EP “Tales of Addiction and Despair”.
 For the time being the EP is in digital format with a free download, but a  physical release of “Tales of Addiction and Despair” is coming soon in the pure spirit of D.I.Y.

 In the meantime line-up is changed: Lorenzo left them and they got a new additional guitar player; so the current line-up is:
 Michele vocals/Fiò drums/Francesco “ Volt” guitars
 and Dodi guitars
 Now BRW are planning to play live and  spread their EP as much as they can.
 Let the Blood In! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/blood+red+water">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.