There are three bands:
1) Thrash metal band from Poland, Poznań
2) Experimental black ambient/industrial project from SW Florida. 
3) Hardcore band from Illinois.

1) The band was formed in march '99, but the first fine line-up came up in 2000: Rambo (guitar), Marcin (guitar/vocals) and Damian (drums). It was the time, when first tracks were born, and it was obvious that the music would be rude and asskicking - it was thrash metal.

 Not everyone liked it, so in the middle of 2000 Rambo - the founder and leader - was left alone. He decided to take on the vocals and complete a line-up with Slayer (dr), Angsar (bass) and later on Kura (guitar).
 In August '01 the first demo - "End is the Beginning" - has been recorded and brought five tracks of raw and ugly thrash. The response was various, cause the sound was very poor.

 At the time some new tracks came up, being far more improved, but still in the same style. Suddenly Angsar got bored and he was replaced by Koper. In November 2001 Bloodthirst became a trio due to Kura's decision to make something else, rather more melodic and calm in vein of early heavy metal. Although Kura was not a member of the band at the time, he engineered the recording of Bloodthirt's second demo stuff - "Forgotten Years of Killing" which included 5 new tracks and a cover of Slayer's "Evil Has No Boundaries". At the time the band shared stage with Thunderbolt, Hell-Born, Anima Damnata, The-Nomads and many more. 

In may 2004 Koper has been kicked out and Nightal of Strandhogg took his place. During the following year Bloodthirst managed to play plenty of brutal live shows (one of them was released by Kampf Rec as a MC split with Bestial Raids, limited to 150pcs) and record a stuff for a split with Ebola entitled "Hell Bestial Desecration". It was released in February 2005 and helped to become a quite known hellish squad. Meanwhile Metal Rulez Prod. re-released the II demo stuff as a split with Hellish (200 pcs limit), Maltkross from France releases the whole discography along with bonus Ebola stuff and Iron Bonehead/Deathstrike put "Paradise is Covered by Death" track (version from 2003) to its 4-way split entitled "Thrash Metal Blitzkrieg vol. II" (7''EP limited to 1000 and sold out very fast).

 July 2005 brought another change in the line-up. Mintaj from Carpe Noctem took place behind the drumset and Bloodthirst's music became more ravenous. This was the beginning of songwriting for a full-lenght album "Let Him Die". It took quite a long time due to many gigs (Azarath, Non Opus Dei, Ebola, North, Furia, Massemord and others. Mihu from Ebola became a new bass player, after parting ways with Nightal.

 In September 2006 a promo-reh stuff with 8 tracks is recorded in order to get some labels interested. Pagan Records came with an offer, and in March 2007 "Let Him Die" recording session took place in Metal Sound Studio with Wojciech "Poland" Cenajek of Monastery as a sound engineer. 'Let Him Die" brought 9 tracks of Hateful Antichristian Thrash - the expression became "trademark" of the band.

Year 2008 brought many gigs in Poland and a baltic assault with fellow nihilists - Furia. The band, along with Gruft Produktion, came up with an idea of a split-CD with Warfist which was to be a tribute release. Bloodthirst recorded 4 tracks in May 2008 (including Morbid Angel's "Immortal Rites" & Venom's "1000 Days in Sodom"). Finally, after some delays, Gruft decided to release the CD with young bastards from Excidium and "Infernal Thrashing Kömmandments" saw moonlight in January 2009. In the meantime Bloodthirst changed a bass player again. Hiszpan took place of Mihu, since he wanted to focus on Warfist & Ebola.

After successful gigs with Furia/MasseMord, Monastery, Infidel, Nunslaughter & Sathanas the Hateful Antichristian crew decided to focus on a second CD which is going to be recorded in July 2009 and released on Pagan Records in Autumn this year.

Now Bloodthirst exists as a trio, cause Kura got fed up with the band.

2) Who really cares?

3)Bloodthirst from IL was a hardcore band that bit the Integrity sound pretty hard.  They only released a demo, called In the Eyes of God, which was recorded June 6, 1992.  The line up was:  Throat-Frank, 6 String-Jay, 4 String-Pat, and Skins-Brian.  The Frank who sang was none other than Frank of Mk-Ultra/Fourteen or Fight/OSS infamy.  Their mailing address was in Des Plaines, a suburb of Chicago. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodthirst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.