Bloody Pussy Guts formed in Santa Maria, CA as one man band by Alexander Webb in early 2013. Webb decided to take it upon himself from struggling to find like minded grinders and trying to get something going. Webb was also going through legal problems as well which then led him to begin the project with the first ep recording of "Humanical" ep which was recorded after avoiding law enforcement and a warrant issued for missing court. The recording completed its last stage and Webb was arrested at Disown Empathy Productions. Upon his release 30 days later, the ep was mixed and finalized for its sudden release as well. From then on Webb started writing the "Flesh in Blood" album as a fugitive from justice. 
After releasing the album in June 2014, Webb decided to go a step further with this project and decided to handle shows as a one man unit but a little more unique and original. Most one man bands were backed with drum programming, this one man band was gonna do it reversed. Performance handling live drums and vocals to backing guitar/bass tracking multitrack recorded before each performance to keep the organic nature of every instrument played current to the time and date of each event. To begin this venture, Webb involved himself with other musicians in Ventura County that were actively evolving their growing metal scene. The first performance was successful. Others then followed along with a second album and various eps. 
After over 2 1/2 years on the run, Webb was arrested in mid 2015 and was released in 2016. Bloody Pussy Guts came to a close. Later on in 2016, Webb changed the name and course of direction with its music and lifestyle as a completely free man with no limits, he continues to proceed as a single man brutal mangling grinding proceeding under what is now known as CARNIVORATE... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloody+Pussy+Guts">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.