There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Originally founded in the early '80s by singer/saxophonist/guitarist Renestair EJ and singer/drummer Martin Bland in Sydney, Australia, Bloodloss' loud blues/Vegas/punk craziness went through two brief periods of existence in that decade. By all accounts the first was the more notorious, concluding with the group trying to torch the studio they were recording in. The late '80s brought reformation and an album release or two, but when former member Stu Spasm invited both core members to join his current band, Lubricated Goat, they concentrated on that for a few years. The group began its third, highest profile life in the '90s when Bland hooked up with Mudhoney's Mark Arm for the latter's Monkeywrench project. Renestair ended up in the States as well, leading to a fully reactivated Bloodloss with Arm as the other key member. Three albums followed in fairly quick succession -- 1993's In-a-Gadda-da-Change, 1995's Live My Way, and 1996's Misty. The group then took a long hiatus; in late 1999, Arm had mentioned that a new album's worth of material had been in the can for a few years, but that everyone needed to get their act together -- and get some more money -- before it could be finished for release.

2) Bloodloss are a metal band from South London. Combining bruising breakdowns and hook-laden choruses influenced by the likes of Unearth and As I Lay Dying, Bloodloss' neck-breaking aural assault simultaneously draws influence from the grooves and raw attitude of early Machine Head and Pantera. 
They have already racked up some impressive high profile shows,including dates with TRC, Polar, breed 77 and Ill Nino. Their debut mini album “ The Struggle” is released 27th February 2012.

Vocals - Matt Hobbs
Guitar - Rob Ironmonger
Guitar - Mark Browell
Bass - Dave Smith
Drums - Dan Kelly <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodloss">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.