The Thrash Metal band Bloody was formed on March, 2002 in the town of Hortolândia, countryside of São Paulo (SP), by the guitar player Fábio Bloody, the bass player André Tabaja and the singer Paulo Tuckumantel. Months later, having a guest drummer, they Record the Demo "Eat Your Brain". Then, the drummer Luis Coser joins the band and the line-up is set, with the band starting to promote the Demo at important events, including a festival promoted by Rádio Rock from Campinas (SP) and "São Paulo Music Festival", held at KVA, in São Paulo (SP). Yet in 2003, Bloody took part in the compilation "Extreme Underground Vol. 1", which contributed to spread its name in the Metal scene.

The year after, Bloody has been the opening act for the Death Metal trio Krisiun, in Vinhedo (SP), being this gig one of the highlights of their career so far. That remarkable moment, Bloody captivated the audience with its raw and straight Thrash Metal, reviving the magic age of names such as Sepultura, Slayer, Motörhead, Metallica, Megadeth and Sodom. Yet in 2004, the band took part in another compilation, "Metal Vox Compilation Vol. 2", while got ready to the oncoming first official album.

With the experience acquired through gigs, the release of the Demo "Eat Your Brain" and the guests on two compilations, in 2005 Bloody enters the studio to record their debut album, "Slow Death". Recorded at the required Da Tribo studio, in São Paulo (SP), with the renowned producer Ciero, "Slow Death" was totally recorded with analogical equipment, proposing to revive the 80´s essence. The recordings started in the middle of April and ended in July, when the mixing and mastering processes were concluded.

Adding an own identity to a pure and raw Thrash Metal, the album features typical characteristics of the analogical recordings, as the deepest sound, clean drums without triggers, while the recording volume is lower, which enables to turn up the sounds without distorting it.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloody">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.