There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) Bloodstone is an American R&B, soul, and funk group, most popular in the 1970s and early 1980s.
2) Bloodstone was a Swedish death metal band formed in 1991. 
3) Bloodstone is a metal band from Singapore. 
4) Bloodstone is a melodic hard rock band from Australia. 
5) Bloodstone is a British stoner metal/death metal four-piece from Corby. 
6) Bloodstone is a German melodic power metal band from Stuttgart. 

1. Bloodstone is a funk / soul / rock group formed in the 1960s in Kansas City, Missouri. Bloodstone was instrumental in the "black rock" and funk movement of the 1970's, and even had a hand in the brown-eyed soul movement with some Latin music-tinged hits.
Originally a high school doo-wop group, the members eventually moved to Los Angeles, California, learned to play instruments, and started a funk band. They became known for their funk / soul tracks that blended Jimi Hendrix-styled rock music with doo-wop and gospel music undertones. In 1973, Bloodstone's big label debut was an instant hit, with the single "Natural High" reaching the R&B Top Ten. 

2. Bloodstone was a Swedish death metal band formed in 1991. They released a landmark underground death metal album in 1996 by the name of "Hour of the gate", and split in the same year. 
Last known line-up: 
Damien Hess - Vocals 
Michael Samuelsson - Guitars 
Svante Friberg - Bass 
Mats Wikberg - Drums 

3. Bloodstone is a metal band from Singapore. Formed in 2004 and named after the Judas Priest song. 
Lineup: 
Mike Destruction - Guitar / Vocals 
Zeek - Bass 
Cliff - Guitar 
Jahannam - Drums 
http://www.myspace.com/bloodstoneonslaught 

4. Bloodstone is a melodic hard rock band from Australia with two emigrants from Czech Republic formed by: 
Zoran Grozdi - Vocals 
Joe “Cool” La Ferlita - Guitar 
George Harris - Bass 
Vendula Kasparkova - Keyboards 
Klaudius Kryspin - Drums  
Bloodstone released an album called The Awekening in 1994 by Mediarex records. 

5. Bloodstone is a British stoner metal/death metal four-piece from Corby, UK. 

6. Bloodstone is a German Melodic Power Metal band from Stuttgart. Featuring Daniel Stevenson (Mouthful of Flies) on vocals and Andy Green (Moon Chamber, Pagan Altar) on drums. They released an EP, 2000 Down The Line in 1994 and a full-length, Valley Of The Machines in 1995. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodstone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.