There are 2 Bands with the name Blood Red.

(1) Blood Red is a 3 piece hardcore punk band from Braddock, Pennsylvania featuring members or Pissed Jeans, R.A.M.B.O, Swallowed Up, and Run, Forever. They formed in 2009 and have a one sided LP titled "Seize You" coming out on BraddockHitFactory Records early next year. The record, which was recorded and released entirely by the band,  is available for a free download at http://bloodred.bandcamp.com. Members of Blood Red are also involved in the bands: Secret Tombs, Hounds of Hate, and Run, Forever.


(2) Blood Red is hailing straight off the shining banks of the Great South Bay, the body of water residing just south of Long Island. An island full of Silent Majority copycats were all put to shame when former SM vocalist, Tommy Corrigan unleashed his newest project on the island.

Sounding like a mix between the afforementioned Silent Majority and what bassist Vinny Corrigan would like to say U2, Blood Red is a truely original sounding band, with enough emotion to move just about anybody just a little bit, at least. The band featuring members of two classic Long Island hardcore bands, Silent Majority and Inside unleashed their first self-titled EP on the world on the now defunct Redwood Records label. Flooring nearly everyone who heard it the band was off to a very solid start.

Enter the band's most ambitious release, 2002's "Hostage," which was released on the funnily enough, also now defunct Initial Records. The band used more acoustic textures and were treated to better production than we had heard on their EP. Blood Red was poised to take over the world, until Vinny Corrigan moved to Ireland.

The band's swansong was a mostly 7" only release (I say mostly because the 7" came with a CD copy as well) entitled "Bad to Worse," on Long Island based label, State of Mind Recordings. The 7" was much more vicious and not like anything Blood Red had done before, more akin to early Silent Majority. Corrigan's vocals never sounded that way since his days in Silent Majority. The 7" does have one of the regions proudest moments in "GSBHC" (or Great South Bay Hardcore). However, it's cursed with being entirely too short, clocking in at a not-so-solid 10 minutes.

Blood Red would eventually break up and persue other projects, but the small output they put out during their time as a band is some of the best from the South Shore of Long Island.

Tommy Corrigan is now in CAPITAL with members of The Reformation and Thieves & Assassins <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blood+Red">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.