Featuring the vocals of singer extraordinaire Alan "Nemtheanga" Averill of PRIMORDIAL , along with the whirlwind drumming of J. Read (REVENGE, CONQUEROR , AXIS OF ADVANCE ) and the string attack of C. Ross (AXIS OF ADVANCE)

A statement from BLOOD REVOLT reads as follows:
There is extremity for the sake of it, bound within certain confines and boundaries. They might be the confines of the metal scene as it is or simply the confines and limits of having no imagination, foresight, understanding or temerity. Little in modern metal deals with genuine extremity, concerning itself more with fantasy than cruel cold reality. Disregarding scene conventions or politics, in what seems like an odd mix on paper, makes complete sense when you take into account the bloody mindedness with which each musician has pursued their goals and the absolute conviction of their ideals. Blood Revolt deals with mans descent into desperation, alienation, madness, salvation, and ultimately self-immolation and martyrdom. Blood Revolt's debut album follows the first person narrative of a man who comes to the realization that he lives outside of the system as an animal, a law unto himself. To his salvation through striking at the system, severing its artery, wringing its neck in the only self-expression left to those with no choice in this world. In over the course of eight acts, you will witness his descent into madness, salvation at the barrel of a gun, dehumanisation and ultimately his redemption in destroying himself. The music, as you can expect from the pedigree of the musicians involved, doesn't follow any typical paths open to extreme metal. It is militantly precise in its execution but eschews tired cliches and generic pathos. This is truly for those who wear the mark, who stand on the outside even when on the inside, for those who strive and search for genuine rebellion in a scene of compromise and weakness. Strike with wrath for now and forever... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blood+Revolt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.