Bloodboil was formed in march 1997 as Object by vocalist Danny, drummer Pieter-Paul and guitarists Tom and Con. After a month or two bassplayer Robert (who had been playing with Danny and Con in a band called Sadness) completed the first line-up. Object began writing songs, inspired by brutal US style death metal, which were recorded on the" Bloody hands never wash clean" demo.

Unhappy with the sound quality the band decided not to release this demo. In August of '98 Danny was replaced by Norman. Around the same time Pieter-Paul was suffering from a knee injury which eventually led to his departure. Marcel (who was a guitarist in the before mentioned Sadness) took over his place. With this line up the band recorded their debut cdemo simply entitled "Object" in the well known Harrow studio.

Later that year the band decided it was better to continue as a four piece band, so guitarist Tom had to leave. At the same time the name of the band changed into Bloodboil, cause this name suits better to their music. In June 2000 Bloodboil once again went to the Harrow recording studio's to record "The art of the flesh". A six track brutal death-metal assault which quickly spread the name of Bloodboil in the Dutch death metal scene.

Right after the recordings of "Art..." Norman decided to quit, Lucbert Favie (Maggots, F.U.B.A.R.) temporarily took over the vocal duties until Bloodboil found in Coen the perfect vocalist. In the meantime Bloodboil inked a deal with Canadian based Great White North records.

In November 2001 Bloodboil went to the infamous Excess studio's (Disavowed, Pyaemia, Sinister) to record their first full length album called "Festering Fornication". For the artwork Bloodboil contacted Mexican madman Alfonso"Artgore" Ruiz who made two of his trademark painted perversities.It was the artwork which led to a break-up between Bloodboil and GWN because GWN refused to release the album with that artwork and Bloodboil refused to change the artwork. So Bloodboil decided to end the deal and search for another record company. After comparing several options Bloodboil decided to sign to Flesh Feast Production's from Spain

Bloodboil is currently signed to Amputated Vein Records.

Bloodboil after a long delay has finally released their full lenghth CD "Festering Fornication".  It was released July 2006 under Amputated Vein Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodboil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.