Throughout the years there have been bands and artists that have defined who we are, and in the Christian faith, there are those bands that have reflected our desired passion to serve Christ in a greater light. You pop in the CD and it takes you into a militant realm and into a place of communion with Christ. With the way our industry is structured today, however, there are many bands who never get heard, and deserve that final stand to proclaim the message that has changed hearts and minds towards Christ. One of those very bands R.I.P. 2000 was the Can-Am Trio BLOOD-N-FIRE, consisting of Canadian members MAT GAUTHIER (lead vox / guitars), BILL RANKIN (bass), and KEVIN REYNOLDS (drums / bgv) hailing from Detroit, Michigan. 

My personal experience with these guys started in early 1995. I was the co-director of a youth café called CAFÉ DEL SOL located in Dearborn Heights, MI with Fairlane Assembly of God under youth pastor Walt Malone. I cant remember who made first contact, but I remember meeting the guys for the first time at a breakfast meeting on Saturday morning, and I remember sitting there listening to them share their hearts and passion for winning the lost through their music. I became especially good friends with Kevin, and actually worked with Kevin for a period of time doing courier work, which allowed us a lot of time to work and collaborate on band projects. My involvement started with a show that the guys opened for the band KING JAMES (feat. REX CARROLL and ROBERT SWEET). This was one of those tragedy to triumph stories in that due to improper setup of sound and lack of tech expertise, during Rob's soundcheck, our mains blew! We were 3 hours late that night getting the doors opened, and I also set record for the longest wait at a Burger King drive thru that night, all the time praying for God to do SOMETHINGand something He did. The guys from BLOOD-N-FIRE, were set and determined to worship God that night whatever it tookGod opened up another venue for the King James guys to play in town that night, but the BNF boys said "Man let's turn the monitors around, and lets just worship God!" We worshiped and stayed for what seemed like hours that night, and birthed a personal long term relationship with the guys.

Next was the EP GET READY FOR THE WAR. Ironically this is right around the time I started doing my graphic design work and was able to assist with the layout and design of the cover (and all handwritten lyrics) and the band logo for shirts. Practices and road trips with these guys were absolutely some of the most hilarious times, as I found myself going out of the country officially for the first time between going to rehearsals at Sarnia Church of God, eating at Harvey's, going through border checks, and a lot of late nights (which I am eternally grateful to my wife for to this day). Shows were happening throughout the northeast and Canada for the guys and I was assisting with as much of whatever I knew at the time, just wingin it. The guys had been doing shows with BRIDE, KEN TAMPLIN, and REFLECENT TIDE, all part of the roster with RUGGED RECORDS (where the band DISCIPLE released their THIS MIGHT STING and BY GOD releases). This prompted a phonecall to producer Dino Maddalone with Dino M III Studios in Torrence California, for production duty for their first full length release MR. INTERCESSION, which was recorded in 1 week, which is an agonizing pace for such an incredible release. Even though the doors weren't open at the time through Rugged, there was one label director that made investment into the guys upon return. The guys responded to an ad soliciting new artists from a label called KINGDOM RECORDS under the direction of Charles Alan Read. Kingdom released MR. INTERCESSION in 1997, and Blood-N-Fire has established themselves well on the loud charts with their 3 consecutive TOP ten song from their debut release by year end 1997, along with appearances at TBN, Texas Rock Fest, Fishnet, and KingdomBound Festival in New York. My time was briefly halted with working with the guys for a good part of 1998 as I was in Florida, but from a distance assisted in coordinating the release of their followup release MESSIAH, also released through Kingdom. About the same time, 1340 Records out of New York had contacted the guys about collaborating and participating in a new Stryper tribute cd simply called ISAIAH 53:5, led to 1 ½ songs with SURRENDER, half being a collaboration with RACING ELIJAH on the song LOVING YOU.

MESSIAH was produced by the band themselves and presented a more polished and more radio friendly piece, yet solid as a rock and featured the remake of the Petra classic JUDAS KISS (endorsed by Bob Hartman himself), which recieved rave reviews from radio and press alike. My time with the band started to wind up in mid 1999 as we formed a team and assisted in coordinating the annual REBORN FESTIVAL in London Ontario that summer, and in November of 1999 doing a pair of shows with then Rugged recording artist (and 3 piece) DISCIPLE. As a result of that weekend of shows, I received invitation to come to Nashville to start my fulltime career in the music industry.

Because they were independent, and didn't have national distribution, a lot of folks never got to experience the ministry of BLOOD-N-FIRE, and it's my honor today to present this tribute page to one of the greatest Jesus Ministry rock bands of our time, and I pray that their music will grab you and touch you as it did me. We will be featuring one on one interviews in the near future with each of the guys sharing their stories past and present. If you have questions for any of the guys feel free to message us here.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blood-N-Fire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.