Seattle's burgeoning metal scene has given birth to a new force where the ley lines of dark melody and brutality intersect: Blood and Thunder. Weaving together intricate guitar-craft, ringing, swirling keyboards, bludgeoning bass and drums, and a mix of crack-ice blackened vocals and wolfish death-metal roars, Blood and Thunder create melodic death metal that both crushes and loads your head with barbed hooks that won't come loose after the music ends.

This five-piece band's debut album, 2011's Dawning of the Ancients, is the product of a long process of songwriting and live performance. At various moments, the songs conjure memories of Children of Bodom, Wintersun, Amon Amarth, and The Black Dahlia Murder, combining tempo dynamics, guitar and keyboard technicality, dark, memorable melodies, and a large dose of venomous aggression. The recordings have a raw and unpretentious sound, but one that doesn't hide the band's impressive songwriting sophistication and advanced instrumental chops.

But Dawning of the Ancients is simply the beginning. Unforeseen setbacks delayed completion of the album, but the silver lining is that while work on the album progressed, Blood and Thunder developed enough new material for a second album -- songs that reflect the band's continued growth toward a sound that will truly be their own, more technical and more polished and yet sacrificing none of the blunt force brutality and melodic feel that are becoming the band's hallmark.

Blood and Thunder are looking for label support and are eager for opportunities to tour nationally.



The band consists of:

Ryan Yancey - Drums, Lead Vocals
Billy Keller - Guitar, Vocals
Jeff Weaver-Guitar
James Furrow - Keyboard
Nick Hughes - Bass



-Links to other websites-
www.myspace.com/bloodthunderband
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Blood-And-Thunder/160001129845. 


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blood+and+Thunder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.