There is more than one artist with this name, a rock/metal band from Michigan, a metal band from New Zealand, and an international death metal project:

1.) Bloodletting is a melodic, progressive, rock/metal band from Lansing, MI. They have been playing in the mid-west for over 10 years and have shared the stage with national acts including: Disturbed, Killswitch Engage, Sevendust, Tesla, Powerman 5K, Chimaira, Otep, Lacuna Coil, Lamb of God, Mushroomhead, Six Feet Under, Kittie, Flaw, Ill Nino, 40 Below Summer and many more.

They have recently released their second full-length album, "The Ever After" (Feb 2011) Available for purchase at www.cdbaby.com/bloodletting and download at www.digstation.com/bloodletting as well as multiple locations through-out Mid-Michigan.

For more info, pictures, links, shows, merch and more check out www.bloodlettingmusic.com

2.) Bloodletting was a 4-piece brutal metal band from Auckland, New Zealand. Their influences included Paris Hilton being brutally raped, vegans forced to eat their pets, and the end of humanity in many different ways. Lyrically focusing on the subjects such as social injustice, religion, corruption and greed, Bloodletting use their music as a middle finger aimed at the asinine society in which we live in today.

Bloodletting are all about having fun and playing music for the love of it, combining members from Leader to Ruin, The Mark of Man, In Dread Response and New Way Home. In 2008 Bloodletting released a 5 track ep. entitled “Force Fed Terror”. MySpace.

3.) Started in late 2011, Bloodletting is an international death metal collaboration between Émilie-Christine P. Newman (ex-Pyrrah) from Canada/UK, and Markus E. Malkavelkian (Gangrena, Virulent Vasectomy, Pancreatocholectomy, Cranial Splatter, S.A.N.G.R.E.) from Mexico.

With subject matter around medical history, torture, blood and gore, their first single "Expulsing Your Disease" was released in April 2012. Their first EP "Exsangination" is set to be unleased into the world in fall 2012.
Bloodletting's Facebook Page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodletting">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.