Bloodshot Dawn is a melodic death/thrash metal band from Portsmouth, Hampshire, UK.

The band consists of:

Josh McMorran - Vocals/Lead Guitar
Benjamin Ellis - Lead Guitar/Backing Vocals
Janne Jaloma - Drums
Anthony Ridout - Bass

After a number of line up changes and endless practice honing their sound, band members Anderson and McMorran recorded and released their first effort in the form of “Coalition Of Terror”, a two track EP that received positive feedback both critically and around their local metal scene. 

Driven by this success, Anderson and McMorran sought out other musicians for a full time line up that could add to their brutal live shows and match the technical precision on the EP. This lead them to bassist Anthony Ridout who joined the band just after the release. Following this the band then set about playing across the UK in support of the EP, and went on to win the 2009 “Metal To The Masses” competition, playing at Bloodstock Open Air Festival with the likes of influential bands such as Carcass, Arch Enemy and Kreator. 

The band now looked to record more material, recruiting Benjamin Ellis on lead guitar to complete the current line up in late 2009. Following a string of gigs in the UK, Bloodshot Dawn set about recording their follow up to “Coalition Of Terror” in 2010. This came in the form of their “Slaves To The Lie” EP, released in February 2011. This EP was self financed and made available worldwide via all major distribution websites. Bloodshot Dawn self promoted this release with a number of UK dates including gigs with Cerebral Bore, Desecration, Dead Beyond Buried, General Surgery, Vader & Krisiun UK Tour dates, as well as underground tours across the UK, which were all nationally advertised and self managed via Chaotic Tapestry Management. 

In September 2011, Bloodshot Dawn entered the studio again, this time at 16th Cellar Studios in Rome, to record their debut full-length release. The self-titled album has seen Bloodshot Dawn's writing style mature noticeably, becoming more intense while also increasingly melodic and accessible. This unique writing sensibility, coupled with fierce production from Stefano Morabito, has resulted in an album that will cement Bloodshot Dawn's status as one of the UK's fiercest Metal bands. 

The album was finished in December 2011 and was released on 26th January 2012.
Long-time drummer Doug Anderson left the band in 2013, and was replaced by Janne Jaloma.

In 2014 they succesfully funded the recording of their second album "Demons" through Kickstarter, and it will be released on October 26th, 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bloodshot+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.