Few musical acts can lay claim to such dynamic and consistent evolution as Blu Mar Ten.

Formed in the big-bang of 90’s drum & bass and regular faces at Rage, Metalheadz, Speed & AWOL, Blu Mar Ten were rapidly spotted by LTJ Bukem and signed to Good Looking Records, cementing their position in the genre as originators of complex, atmospheric music.

They quickly grew and mutated beyond the confines of the jungle into lush experimentation with downtempo, ambient, house, breaks, techno & left-field for labels such as Naked Music, Guidance, Big Chill, with two full albums of non-d&b material on Exceptional Records.

This new material saw Blu Mar Ten gain support from DJs such as Tom Middleton, Rennie Pilgrem, Pete Tong, Felix da Housecat, Ben Watt, Carl Cox, Lee Burridge, Erol Alkan, Howie B and Mary Anne Hobbs.

Blu Mar Ten also remixed a series of major and independent artists, including Erykah Badu, Annie Lennox, Alicia Keys, Terry Lee Brown Junior, Jakatta, The Ananda Project, Doc Scott, Fink and Blame.

2005 saw Blu Mar Ten return to the drum & bass scene, with the next 18 months producing a string of releases on labels such as Hospital, Renegade Hardware, Shogun Audio, 31 Records, Tangent, Phuzion, Vibez & Basement.

2009 has already seen the release of the ‘Close’ and ‘Believe Me’ EPs, preludes to Blu Mar Ten’s long-awaited first full drum & bass album. Scheduled for late 2009, the album promises to deliver an incredibly wide range of drum & bass tracks from the deeply abstract to the unashamedly dancefloor, yet all bearing Blu Mar Ten’s trademark stamp of quality.

DJ support for Blu Mar Ten’s new material has been pouring in from right across the d&b family tree, leaving you in no doubt at the trio’s position at the forefront of the scene…

Support from:
Marky, London Elektricity, Doc Scott, Teebee, Instra:mental, D Bridge, Hype, John B, Logistics, Ed Rush, Marcus Intalex, Utah Jazz, Makoto, Spectrasoul , Apex, SPY, Craggz, DKay, Seba, Loxy, Ink, Lynx, John B, Randomer, Data, Nerm & D-Kode, Annie Nightingale, Crissy Criss, Mosus, Furney, A Sides, Tom Middleton, ASC, State of Mind, Kubiks, Lomax, Alleycat, Big Bud and many more <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blu+Mar+Ten">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.