1) Bludgeon was a Black/Death metal band from Pennsylvania / Delaware, USA. 1997-2001


2) Bludgeon is a unique metal entity from Chicago that is not afraid to cause mayhem. The first band signed to Magic Circle Music, Bludgeon takes extreme metal by the balls and doesn’t let go. Their sophomore album, “World Controlled” is a brutal assault on the senses that is sure to leave a lasting impression on fans of death, thrash, hardcore and speed metal. 

Bludgeon has earned several distinctions in their relatively young career. When Manowar bassist and Magic Circle Music founder Joey DeMaio discovered the band, he agreed to produce their debut album, Crucify The Priest - an honor never before bestowed upon a band other than his own - and signed them to his label. DeMaio then introduced the band to Metal Blade Records CEO Brian Slagel, who recognized that the band had immense potential and agreed to distribute their debut album worldwide. Such signs of confidence from metal elite speak volumes about Bludgeon.

The Bludgeon beast is no stranger to touring. Having performed at the Metal Meltdown III in Asbury Park, NJ and as support act to the legendary Manowar on the Warriors Of The World Tour 2002, Bludgeon is a band that has spread the crusade of metal.

On the new album, World Controlled, Bludgeon further evolves the sound and attitude that helped them to make such an impressive start. By incorporating hardcore influences into their already powerful death/thrash metal sound, the band has reached a new level of anger and brutality. Vocalist/guitarist Mark Duca explains, “I always write what I feel; half the record was written when I was going through pain and suffering. But I don’t see that as a bad thing.” Songs like “Carnage Begins” and “Consumed By Anger” illustrate the thoughts and feelings of a band that faces the challenges of everyday life with the aggression and persistence needed to come out on top. “You have to suffer to move forward. It’s like you have to prove how faithful you are.”

Bludgeon has not only grown musically, but the lineup has also changed. This evolution was not an easy process, but it truly helped to shape the lyrics and themes of World Controlled. “The band was going through personal problems with the lineup change when I was writing the lyrics,” says Duca. “I felt like people were trying to control me and that is where the album title comes from. You might go through changes, but Bludgeon will always stay true to metal.”

Here is what the press is saying about BLUDGEON:

“On World Controlled, Chicago’s Bludgeon delivers a pummeling that’ll rattle the most veteran death/thrash fan. Brutality unleashed!” – UNRESTRAINED! Magazine

"If ever a band was aptly named, it's Bludgeon. This band is brutal power rock personified." – Hit Parader Magazine

A track listing for World Controlled comprises
1. Unholy Murder
2. Carnage Begins
3. Bitter Emptiness
4. Consumed By Anger
5. Infidel
6. World Controlled
7. Save Your Servant
8. Refuse The Truth
9. Hunt Or Be Hunted
10. Awakening
11. Out Of Reach

World Controlled also contains approximately 20 minutes of video footage 
showcasing the Bludgeon production cycle.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bludgeon UK

ESSEX BRUTAL DEATH METAL

Zach White
Tim Leigh
Chris Mansfield

http://www.myspace.com/bludgeon213

BIO:
Way back in 1996, Zach White (vokills) and Tim Leigh (guttars), broke away from their previous band members to form a new outfit which was more extreme than their previous efforts. Around a year after forming they recorded a 2 track demo titled ‘Mainstay of Hatred'. This was recorded in Zach's old flat on a 4-track. Bludgeon never released this due to a bad sound. They mainly just passed it around friends and such for their own amusement! With many members coming and going over the next few years, it wasn't until early 2000 that Bludgeon entered the studio to record their next demo entitled 'A Cannibals Fixation'. The 3 track promo was recorded in there local home town at a small 16 track analogue studio. The band yet again suffered a poor production, but this time the material was tighter and way more technical. Bludgeon did release this demo, but only had around 100 copies of it printed. Various cool guys throughout the underground made copies of it and distributed it. This also received some airplay in the U.S on many underground radio stations. As far as Bludgeon is concerned, to this date the demo is no longer available and they have no plans to make it resurface. In March 2001 Bludgeon entered the studio again, this time to record the 'Realm of Decay' promo. This was the first time that the band had really thought of the material as being a good representation of what they are capable of. The production was better than all previous efforts, and Bludgeon wound up getting offers from various labels. The 'Realm' demo was officially released for the first time in 2005 by Australian label 'Life Fluid Productions', on a three way split cd featuring Bludgeon - Corpse Carving - and Twitch of The Death Nerve. During 2005 Bludgeon played many shows in and around the UK to much success, enhancing there brutal live reputation. The band set up and self financed a mini tour with Vomit Remnants (Japan) and Godless Truth (Czech Rep), as well as being added as a support band to shows with Goratory (USA) - Skinned (USA) - Visceral Bleeding (Swe) – Mortal Decay (USA) – Beheaded (Malta) – and Brutus (hol). Just recently Chris 'Manser' Mansfield became a member of the fold, after seeing him play in his previous band we knew that he had the skills to be at least due a try out, which he sailed through and is now ready to unleash the hatred of Bludgeon live. Devoted to Lunacy is now complete and Bludgeon continue the search for a label to release this. If you are interested in releasing this cd dont hesitate in getting in touch with the band. Prepare to be sickened............................. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bludgeon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.