Blueline Medic are a four piece rock band who have no trouble avoiding catchphrases that offer the appearance of being more hip than they are.

Thanks to a lack of a solid group identity, its members are virtuosos of describing what the band is not, rather than what it really is. In any case, there’s enough literature written about Blueline Medic over the past five years for critics and the like to actually do some kind of research themselves. There's also plenty of lyrical content in BLM's tunes for enthusiasts to glean an idea of what they’re about. Essentially, the band just can’t be bothered talking about it.

So this is what the band is not: Born-again Christians; EMO; marketing geniuses; photogenic.

This is what the band have done: A couple of full length albums and some shorter releases; lots of national tours and a couple of international tours; more part-time work than the collective population of Centrelink payment recipients; played lots of music in pubs, clubs, discotheques, on telly and at festivals.

The band is made up of:

Adrian Lombardi – He plays guitar and is known as "The Voice"... no reference to his Farnham type licks (Joke!!) but more as the voice of reason, exuding diplomacy at every turn when dealing with promoters, record company exec’s and the broader population. His beverage of choice is red wine and dreams of the ocean while hiring out music gear from his workplace at Billy Hydes. Adrian’s special skill is to organise himself free entry to virtually any rock performance in town.

Donnie Dureau – Labelling himself a nerd, without dissent from the rest of the band, this lead singer and guitarist performs the hokey pokey for kiddies during the day. Occasionally he broadens his target audience to the seniors at those old people’s homes, where he’s experimenting with some old time country jazz bluesy... stuff. It’s still uncertain if the seniors understand it either.

David Snow – A comic genius, freelance graphic artist and bassist for BLM, also specialises in skate shop retail, where he offers advice to parents who love to maim themselves beyond comprehension. His best advice is to shop elsewhere if they don’t like the service. With a PhD in Sociology (almost!), Dave loves trading witchcraft tips with others who share his own awkward social tendencies. He is the best a packing the van for BLM's countless tours around the nation.

Shaun Lohoar – As BLM's drummist, Shaun considers himself the best at packing the van, but finds it hard to negotiate Dave's insistence to perform the task alone. While providing the perfect excuse for escaping any kind of labour, driving included, Shaun is always first out with the frisbee, footy or anything that utilises his extraordinary gross motor skills. Shaun is also a trained sociologist, researching from his 14th floor window desk the climatic features of Post Phillip Bay whilst conjuring up his next block-rocking beat. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blueline+Medic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.