The history of Blue Skies Bring Tears is long and filled with indecision and confusion. Having started rehearsing as early as the spring of 1999, the band was originally comprised of drummer August Lengquist, guitarist Niklas Ottosson and then vocalist and bassist Josephine Kersten. The band at the time played alternative rock not totally unlike that of the Smashing Pumpkins or Nirvana. Having had a slow start it was not until mid 2000 that guitarist Christian Ahlsen joined being lead guitarist, by then the band still attempted to craft alternative pop/rock anthems to no avail. Shortly after Christian joined Josephine left the band due to lack of interest and time. The band then decided that it was time to change musical direction and started laying the first founding notes for what would be the sound the band sports today.

Starting rehearsals as 'Threnody' in a basement in mid Västervik playing some early tracks with the working titles 'Syringe', 'Dirge' and 'Horseflies' the band soon found themselves in some unfortunate tension between the remaining three of the band. In the spring of 2002 the band decided to call it quits and spent the summer working on various projects on their own until Niklas and August once again gave the band a try, in late summer 2002 it was reformed again playing alternative rock.

In a twist of events a school project playing a weird brand of metal Christian and Niklas found themselves capable of composing tracks together, this formed an understanding between the two, one that had been absent before. Christian rejoined the band in early 2003, but this time he chose a less prominent role not composing that many songs himself, Niklas was made singer. The results of the schoolproject was songs like 'D', 'B', 'Intro' and 'A', songs named after their respective key. All songs were later dumped and the band returned to a clean song slate working on songs Niklas had composed late in the previous year, finishing touches were made on 'Faded' and 'Incomplete'. Soon followed work on songs like 'Displaced', 'Anomaly' and 'Pain'. In october Andreas Ottosson filled the position of bassplayer. The band was basically complete, only lacking a keyboard player...

The band had then since long dumped the name 'Threnody' and tried names like 'The Institute of Tears' and 'ægrimonia'. Having finished up numerous songs the band ventured into the studio in an attempt to record a demo for the first time in the spring of 2004, results told the band that more work was needed before the process would come with positive results. Four songs were recorded -- 'Anomaly', 'Displaced', 'Pain' and 'Faded' all without vocals. Later the same year the band returned into the studio with more confidence and recorded the same four songs along with six others -- 'Disasterpiece' (instrumental), 'Intro', 'In the Periphery', 'Naive', 'Untitled' and 'Incomplete' this time with vocals and the gathered experience from the previous studio session resulted in a much more positive outcome. First the intention was to release two CDs with 5 songs each, due to somewhat choppy results on some songs, four songs were cut ('Disasterpiece', 'Incomplete', 'Naive' and 'In the periphery') and suddenly a demo with six songs seemed more logical. In the summer of 2005 the band gave recording another try and rerecorded Anomaly, Faded, Displaced, Pain, Untitled and added two newer tracks; Obsessions and Wound, both of which followed a more pop influenced structure. The mix was concluded in late 2005. Results ranged from good to decent, but the demo received some good reviews.

After encountering a period of slower pace the band, again, picked up recording and made the fourth demo in mid 2006. Wound was rerecorded and 5 other 'era 2' songs were picked to accompany it on the new demo - My Soul's Dissonance, Memories, The Loss That I Feel, Tonight, Influence. The mixing was completed by the end of 2006 and the band also managed to perform its first ever public gig (only a few years late ;)).

The band are currently continuing their songwriting and rehearsing now aiming for more gigs and a recording deal.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blue+Skies+Bring+Tears">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.