Blue Sky Black Death is an accomplished West Coast (US) production duo. Their sound transforms the raw into the refined through technically building layers that exceed the boundaries of any one particular musical genre. 

Young God and Kingston make up the duo, and acquire additional people to help construct the synthesis of instrumental variety. Often a single track will involve a violin, cello, keyboard, and guitar mixed with live vocals and abstract samplings. Each song compiles and manipulates to make the music engage on several levels.

Most of their reputation comes from their accomplishments with various hip hop collaborators (Jean Grae, Crooked-I, Hell Razah, the late Guru, Ill Bill, to name but a few). Each album surpasses the next in expectation thus creating surprise. BSBD has been recieved praise from such publications as Spin, URB, Rock Sound, XLR8R (naming "Late Night Cinema" as: "The Best Instrumental Hip Hop album of 2008. Unlike any other artist around right now"), Itunes featured artist, Imeem featured artist, ReUp magazine, Filter Magazine, Vapors Magazine, Remix Magazine, Pop Matters, amongst others, and their music has led them to receive world wide recognition. Their most recent highly acclaimed album "Slow Burning Lights" matches BSBD with phenomenon Yes Alexander. Her spine numbing vocals and somber lyrics meld flawlessly amongst BSBDs quixotic rhythms. BSBD has redefined hip hop through their kaleidoscopic perception of music as a landscape; music as a dimension to construct and build upwards and out. Their name borrowed from the skydiving term, beauty before death, mirrors their longevity and ability to bring back to life, dead and forgotten dimensions. There's no artifice behind BSBD, as will be heard with "Third Party," which is set to drop September 7, 2010 and will be BSBDs 10th album released within a 4-year-span. "Third Party" pairs BSBD with songwriter Alexander Chen of Boy in Static, and most recently The Consulate General. The songs draw from a span of inspiration, from 80's pop melodies to modern indie rock experimentation.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blue+Sky+Black+Death">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.