The sole member of Blue Stahli, Bret Autrey comes from a background of fetish burlesque troupes, drag queen fronted punk bands and believes that he is visited in his dreams by the ghost of William S. Burroughs.

In addition to writing and performing Blue Stahli, he is also the other touring member of the Celldweller live show. During live performances, he is frequently given to fits of spastic energy while abusing guitars, making loud angry noises on synths, and punishing a tricked out tribal drum set like he caught it breaking into his house. Celldweller mastermind, Klayton, dons the producer role of Blue Stahli (and thus keeping Bret from accidentally lighting himself on fire).

The music of Blue Stahli is not only meant to be aggressive, artistic, and full of piss’n'vinegar, but also vividly cinematic and wildly epic. Trailers and promos for films such as “Tron Legacy”, “The Tourist”, “Jonah Hex” and “The Final Destination” all the way to TV shows like “America’s Next Top Model”, “Bones” and “Criminal Minds” feature Blue Stahli to create an exciting musical backdrop. Video games like “Dead Rising 2″ and ads for Victoria’s Secret have also utilized the music of Blue Stahli to inject their productions with rawness and energy. Either that, or a family member was held for ransom. Bret has never been successfully prosecuted, so we may never know

The self-titled debut album is a double-barreled blast of anthemic songs that are just as focused on providing an emotional escape as they are to making you feel as though you could singlehandedly take on an entire army. Infectious vocal hooks ranging from sensual and emotive to screaming-bloody-murder serve as the foundation for stronger-than-steel songwriting while giant chainsaw guitar riffs threaten to burn cities to the ground in a blaze of hooky, distorted glory. Slick electronics and dramatic production provide a gripping cinematic atmosphere with more intrigue than a box full of Bond flicks. Live drums and tribal toms are pulverized with a ferocity typically reserved for guerilla warfare while sexy breakbeats cut through with a precision hellbent on giving you and your hips more groove than is physically or legally allowed. These ten songs of fury and release will get stuck in your head and stay there. Do not defy them.

The pure visceral feeling of Blue Stahli is a getaway drive into oblivion, cutting a jet-black swath down midnight asphalt. Clawing, scratching and tearing through to catharsis with the hyperstylized jagged edge of revenge and will make you orgasm uncontrollably. Art is a weapon. Use it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blue+Stahli">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.