There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Blueprint is a rapper and producer from Columbus, Ohio. He is the owner of Weightless Recordings and also signed to Rhymesayers Entertainment. He is also one half of the group Soul Position with producer RJD2.

Over the span of several years, Blueprint has risen greatly in popularity. He first gained minor underground attention as a member of the crew Greenhouse Effect. He achieved somewhat more widespread notice with his appearance on the single "Final Frontier" on RJD2's album Deadringer. Since then, he has released one EP and two albums for Soul Position, as well as a solo release on Rhymesayers, titled 1988. Blueprint is known for his distinctive voice and story-telling ability. His albums usually focus upon a range of subjects and include many different styles of music, rather than focusing on one level throughout. He is also a skilled freestyler and came second place in the Scribble Jam 2000 freestyle competition.

Discography
    * Chamber Music (2004)
    * 1988 (2005)
    * Things Go Better with RJ and AL (2006)
    * Adventures In Counter-Culture (2011) 



2) Blueprint was also an indie/emo band from Houston, Texas. They formed in 1991. During their existence they released a few 7-inches (including a split with Jimmy Eat World and a CD. They played with several bands such as Jawbreaker, The Promise Ring, The Offspring, Face To Face, Samiam, Jimmy Eat World and many more. They disbanded in 2001.



3) Blueprint is a acoustic/indie rock band from Riga, Latvia formed in 2002.

Current Lineup:

Anna Pommere - vocal/saxophone
Ivars Pommers - guitar
Andrejs Rozentāls - bass guitar
Māris Celitāns - drums

www.blueprint.times.lv
www.draugiem.lv/music/musician.php?mid=14079

4) Blueprint was also a skate punk band from Malmö, Sweden. They never got a record deal, though. Disbanded in 2004 or 2005.

5) Blueprint was a band from Ayrshire in Scotland from 1999-2001. More info and free music downloads are available here:
http://www.neilmck.com/bio-group-37.html

6) Blueprint is a hardcore punk band from Redding, CA.

7) Blueprint is a hardcore band from Philadelphia, PA <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blueprint">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.