There are two known bands with this name:

Blynd post-thrash metal band from Cyprus:

Formed in Cyprus in 2003, BLYND wanted to bring the starving underground metal scene on surface and to spread the tentacles of their music over the shores of this small island. Since day one, they give a contemporary spin to the old school aggressiveness of thrash, unapologetically and forcefully.

BLYND’s first demo “Embraced and Abandoned” (2004) received excellent reviews from magazines and webzines around the world, such as Terrorizer Magazine scoring the demo with 8.5 and caught the attention of underground zines in unanticipated countries, like Argentina and Nepal. That was the founding block of a passionate and loyal fan base that has been growing steadily since then.

Stronger was the impact of their second demo, “The Human Touch” (2007) in which BLYND defined their sound. The Greek Metal Hammer rated it with 8.5, raving about these Cyprus metallers and their unique, unpredictable compositions. Positive reviews kept pouring in, so with an air of optimism and drive, the band pressed on to take it to the next level.

Their first full length album “The Enemy” (Fishbone Records, Dec 2010) combines huge riffs, powerful drumming and intense vocals that are wrought together creating a dense sonic experience. BLYND went back into the writing tank the very next day after “The Enemy”’s release to work on their second album to be recorded and released by the end of 2011.

BLYND actively perform live all over the island of Cyprus in venues and festivals. They have shared the stage with every other respected Cypriot band, as well as renowned acts such as Sepultura, Anathema, Septic Flesh... They are no strangers to worldwide publicity as they have preached their music live in many different countries and appeared in magazine compilations and radio stations all over the world. Their live performances are aggressive, raw and energetic, leaving a lasting impression to audiences. Along with their sheer hunger and reverence for metal music, BLYND are engaging new crowds in every show.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Blynd">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.