Blümchen's real name is Jasmin Wagner. She is also known as Blossom. She was born on the 20th April 1980 in Hamburg, Germany.

Blümchen (meaning Blossom or small flower) is a nickname given by her mother. Blümchen released English versions of her singles/albums under the name Blossom.

Blümchen began her singing career in the school choir. In November 1995, the 15-year-old Hamburg schoolgirl Jasmin Wagner first hit the German Media Control charts with an upbeat rave-pop version of the Paso Doble German New Wave hit Herz An Herz (which eventually reached number 4). It was a huge success with over 340 000 copies sold.

Herz An Herz was followed by Kleiner Satellit (Piep, Piep), released in March 1996, which wasn't such a great success compared to her previous hit "Herz an Herz".

In June 1996, single number three was released, it was titled  Boomerang  and it directly became a mega-hit.

In September 1996 the single Du und Ich was released and in November 1996 she released a remake of Queen's old hit Bicycle Race. This song was included in the "Queen Dance Traxx" project.

In January 1997 Jasmin got the BRAVO Golden Otto and she won in several categories (Best CD, Best National Female Singer and Best show). She has also won several other awards, including the Echo Award (German Grammy Awards) for "Best German Female Artist of 1996".

In February 1997 she released the album  Herzfrequenz - Die Goldedition , which was a double CD. The first CD is the same as "Herzfrequenz" but the second is a CD-ROM and it contains pictures, a biography and all videos from Herz An Herz  to  Bicycle Race .

In April 1997 she released Nur Geträumt, a cover of an old Nena song. This was the first single to be released from her second album Verliebt which was released in May 1997.

In the end of June 1997 she released her second single Verrückte Jungs, from the album Verliebt.

In the beginning of August 1997 the English version of Verliebt was released under the title In Love and in mid-September Gib Mir Noch Zeit was released, this song is unlike the others a slow ballad.

In November of 1997, Blümchen made a cover for the 25th anniversary of Sesame Street called Sesam Jam (Der, Die, Das), and it's a cover of the song from Sesame Street.

Blümchen won the Golden BRAVO OTTO for best singer 1998. She also won the categories for best show, the most good looking singer and best CD. She also got an award from both Popcorn and Pop/Rocky as the best female artist/singer.

Jasmin also got a gold record for the album Verliebt on February 12th and in March 1998 a "Fanedition" of the album was released.

On 18 May 1998, Blümchen released the single Blaue Augen was released and it's a cover of a song written by Annette Humpe of Ideal.

The single Ich Bin Wieder Hier was released on 24 August 1998. Ich Bin Wieder Hier is a cover of Rozalla's early 1990's dance hit Everybody's Free.

Blümchen released her third album Jasmin on 28 September 1998. The album contains 13 songs in various styles: Pop, Electro, House and the classic "Blümchen-Rave".

One of the songs Hand In Hand (Gewalt Ist Doof) was written by Jasmin herself.

Blümchen's last single for 1998 was Es Ist Vorbei. It did not go the old "Blümchen-Rave" style. It's was replaced with a more soft pop-style. The single was released on the 2nd of November.

Blümchen released a video called "'95 - '98 Das Video" on November 30. It features all music videos made until fall 1998, it also includes live-appearances and an interview with Jasmin.

In February 1999, the single Tu es mon île featuring the French singer Yta Farrow was released in France. The song is a remake of Du bist die Insel containing vocals in both German and French.

Jasmin "only" got a BRAVO Silver Otto in 1999 (she had won the Golden Otto 2 years in a row) in the category "Beliebtesten Singer". She also got a Silver Otto in the category "Best CD".

For the second time of her career Blümchen has won the Echo award for "Best national female artist".

The single Heut' ist Mein Tag (or Today Is My Day) was released on 19 April 1999 and it's a song in real happy-Blümchen style. It is one of the most successful tracks of 
Blümchen

The live album called Live in Berlin was released on the 29th of November 1999. It contains several hits from her and also includes a long medley.

The single Unter'm Weihnachtsbaum was released on the 6th of December 1999.

Blümchen got the 3rd Place in the category "Best Singer" in the German teen-magazine POPCORN. She's was also nominated for an ECHO in the "Best national female artist" category.
 
The single Ist Deine Liebe Echt was released on May 22. This single is in a different style than her previous releases, it's a disco track, but it's still a very good track.

The album Die Welt Gehört Dir was released on June 26. This album contains 13 new tracks , including the single Ist Deine Liebe Echt. There's several good tracks both in her "usual" style and also some in a slower tempo.

You can clearly hear influences from both Ann Lee and Rollergirl. 

The single "Die Welt Gehört Mir" was released in the beginning of September.
It's entitled Für Immer Und Ewig and is a double cd with a total of 32 songs! It features hits as Herz An Herz, Kleiner Satellit, Ich Bin Wieder Hier and many other of her hits and also some new 2000 remixes of her old classics.

Blümchen: The end of an era
The release of her "Best Of" album titled Für Immer Und Ewig  marked the end of Jasmin Wagner's career as German pop flower Blümchen. Between 1995 and 2000, the then 20 year-old star had 17 singles and 5 albums in the Media Control charts. World-wide sales totalled 30 million Blümchen singles and album copies. Looking back on 5 Top 10 singles, 14 additional Top 20 hits, 2 Gold albums, 2 ECHO Awards plus a number of other trophies (including several BRAVO Otto Awards) she became the most successful German pop artist of the nineties.
Jasmin expresses her special thanks to everybody who supported her and her musical endeavours over the past five years, fans and producers alike. 
"After five exciting and wonderful years, it's now time to pursue new horizons.
Like everybody, I have changed and developed. And I'm sure my fans will understand".

Next, going to focus her career on some other projects, Jasmin Wagner starred in a Hollywood film called Driven with Sylvester Stallone and is directed by Renny Harlin and had it's première in the US on 16 April 2001.

She's still the moderator of the Disney Filmparade. Jasmin Wagner has released a single called Santa Claus Is Coming To Town, it was released on November 21 in Germany.
In 2002, Jasmin became the moderator of the TV show "teen star" (Popstars 3) in Germany. 

In 2003, Jasmin Wagner released a DVD + a double-CD album with all the hits and video clips on July 7th. She also released her single Leb Deinen Traum on September 8th.

Jasmin returned on the scene with a brand new single. A departure from the straight stomper style of earlier hits, but still faithful to the fun and carefree youth pop attitude, her new single Ist Deine Liebe Echt (”Is Your Love Real”) is the first one from the album Die Welt Gehört Dir (or The World Belongs To You). The groovy pop song comes in two different mixes, one from longtime Blümchen producer Paralyzer, the other from Jeopard, who already produced songs for German artists like U96 and Falco.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Bl%C3%BCmchen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.