There are two acts called Boaz:

1)Though still a young man, Boaz, a 22-year old rapper and Larimer native, is well on his way to becoming a seasoned and professional artist. The last five years have flown by in the independent music career of one of Pittsburgh's most celebrated hip-hop/rap artists. After debuting on WAMO's Battle of the Beats music contest and shutting down the competition eight weeks in a row, Boaz has maintained the love and respect of listeners through one solo release and several guest appearances on some of Pittsburgh hottest local releases. 

2) Boaz Mauda is a young Israeli singer who won the Kocav Nolad competition in Israel, a contest similar to Idol. He later went on to represent Israel in the Eurovision Song Contest and landed a 9th place final position.


Boaz | artist
The Fire In Your Eyes | lyrics
Composer(s) Dana International
Lyrics writer(s) Dana International & Shai Kerem

Eurovision Song Contest 2008 Semi-Final (1)

Sang in Position: 2
Final Position:  5
Total Points:  104

Eurovision Song Contest 2008 GRAND FINAL

Sang in Position:  7
Final Position:  9
Total Points:  124
Out of 450 entries, Israeli broadcasters IBA and Channel 2 hand-picked five songs for Boaz, who will represent the country at the 2008 Eurovision Song Contest. In a televised show, the public chose The Fire In Your Eyes as Boaz' song for Belgrade.

Boaz, 20, is a young and passionate singer. With his clear golden voice, and genuine soul, he already won the hearts of the Israeli public, winning the first prize in the Israeli version of "Pop Idol – A Star is Born". From zero to hero, the new idol is the epitome of the new Israeli man, the rising star which shines in Israel, is soon to shine over Europe.

Boaz sings since the early age of five. Going to the synagogue accompanied by his father, the young boy amazed the family when he sang the Jewish prayers. Since then, Boaz's goal was to become a professional singer - and moreover, his secret fantasy was to represent Israel in the Eurovision Song Contest, and to sing for all of Europe. When he performed in the TV talent show "A Star is Born", Boaz amazed the judges with his wide vocal range. Soon after, the whole country fell in love with the voice of the Yemenite nightingale, often refered to as the 'Israeli Joselito', and Boaz became a leading nominee and a favorite for the crowd at home. During the show, Boaz performed with worldwide famous Israeli singer and guitar player David Broza, giving a private interpretation to the hit song Seniorita. His solo performance at the show's finale received more than 50% of the votes of the audience at home. Boaz was then chosen as the Israeli Idol and became the leading role model for Israeli youth and adults. Boaz has touched and moved the hearts of thousands when he dedicated the winning song to his mother. Handicapped since she gave birth to Boaz, she chose his life over hers in a total act of heroism.

Boaz's mother is the young singer’s private symbol of persistance and willpower and his family will accompany him to Belgrade, as a fountain of strength and inspiration. A family guy, Boaz lives with his parents and two siblings in an agriculture cooperative in the middle of Israel. Choosing the song for the Eurovision Song Contest wasn’t easy. Hundreds of Israel’s top songwriters and composers sent their best submissions to the national song contest which was broadcasted on prime time television on Israeli Channel 2. Five songs were preformed by Boaz and the viewers chose The Fire In Your Eyes, which was written by the 1998 Eurovision Song Contest winner Dana International together with Shai Kerem.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boaz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.