Two artists with this name:

1) -Bob Moses (band): Jimmy Vallance and Tom Howie are a Brooklyn based electronica production duo. After attending high school together, though they weren't close friends, Vallance and Howie coincidentally met each other once again after having each moved to New York separately. It was not long after that they began developing music together, releasing their first EP in 2012. After releasing two more EPs over the next two years, their debut album entitled "Days Gone By" was released on September 18, 2015.
 Early single releases on taste-making electronic label Scissor &amp; 

Meshing guitar licks, a moody smolder and a dash of dance-floor ambience with lyrical depth and classic songwriting, the duo created a sound that appeals equally to club goers and rock music fans. Translating their sound seamlessly to the live performance realm, years of nonstop global touring - including appearances at every major festival from Glastonbury and Coachella, to EDC, Lollapalooza and beyond - cemented the duo’s reputation as a must see live act. A standout performance on The Ellen Show, a pair of nominations at both the Junos and the Grammys (and a Grammy win), and a top 15 US Alternative radio hit with "Tearing Me Up,” have further sealed the band’s burgeoning mainstream success.

May 2018 saw the announcement of a headline US tour and the release of track “Heaven Only Knows,” the first new music from the next exciting phase for Bob Moses.

2) -Rakalam Bob Moses (b. Jan. 28, 1948) is an American jazz drummer born in New York City. 
Moses played with Roland Kirk in 1964-65 while he was still a teenager. In 1966 he and Larry Coryell formed The Free Spirits, a jazz fusion ensemble, and from 1967 to 1969 he played in Gary Burton's quartet. He also recorded with Burton in the 1970s, in addition to work with Dave Liebman/Open Sky, Pat Metheny, Mike Gibbs, Hal Galper, Gil Goldstein, Steve Swallow, Steve Kuhn/Sheila Jordan (from 1979 to 1982), George Gruntz, and Emily Remler (from 1983 to 1984). In the early 1970s he was a member of Compost with Harold Vick, Jumma Santos, Jack Gregg and Jack DeJohnette. His first session as a leader was in 1975. His releases for Gramavision in the 1980s received critical acclaim.
Moses currently performs alongside John Lockwood, Don Pate, and John Medeski with guitarist Tisziji Muñoz and teaches at New England Conservatory.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bob+Moses">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.