Bob Sinclar, born in 1969, real name Christophe Le Friant (French pronunciation : kʁistɔf lə fʁijɑ̃), is a French record producer, DJ, remixer and co-owner (with DJ Yellow) of the label Yellow Productions. Sinclar started DJing in 1986, when he was just 18 years old, specializing in funk and hip-hop music, with the name Chris The French Kiss. His first club hit was Gym & Tonic, a track produced by Thomas Bangalter of Daft Punk, featuring unauthorized vocals taken from a Jane Fonda fitness tape. The Bob Sinclar persona was based on a character from Philippe de Broca's film Le Magnifique.

Sinclar is famous for popularizing the "french touch" of house music, with heavy use of sampled and filtered disco strings. His track "Feel For You", a tribute to french musician Cerrone, from his second album Champs Elysées, hit #9 in the UK Top 40. On track "Darlin'", he worked with vocalist James "D-Train" Williams.

Sinclar has also worked under other pseudonyms. Under the aliases The Mighty Bop and Reminiscence Quartet, he has dabbled in hip-hop and acid jazz. He also created the Africanism project, where an ensemble of artists produce house music with a combination of latin, jazz, african and tribal flavors. In 2005 he scored a hit with his single "Love Generation", that reached #1 on the Australian ARIA Singles Charts and the German Media Control Single Charts in 2006. The song was a huge success throughout Europe, also peaking at no. 2 in the Dutch Top 40. The followup hit was "World, Hold On", that features Steve Edwards and also managed to chart in the top ten in most of the European countries. "Rock This Party (Everybody Dance Now)" followed on August 22, 2006.

The remix of "World, Hold on" by E-Smoove is nominated for a Grammy 2007 in the category "Remixed Recording". Also, "World Hold on" was chosen by Billboard Magazine as the number one Hot Dance Club Play Single of 2006, beating Madonna and Christina Aguilera.

The fourth single of the album 'Western Dream' called 'Tennessee' was supposed to be released in April 2007, but has been cancelled due to the rumour of a new album being released.

That album was Soundz of Freedom. It came out in May 2007.

His latest album is Born In 69, released 2 years after the last album, May 2009. The first single of the album was LaLa Song, together with Sugarhill Gang

Taken from Wikipedia (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Sinclar) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bob+Sinclar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.