There are multiple artists called BOB:

1. A Washington DC area based hard rock band.
2. An early 80s San Francisco new wave/punk band 
3. A Dutch punk-rock band.
4. An Austrian electro-pop-band.
5. A Swiss/German techno duo.
6. An 80s British indie band. 
7. A 90s/00s California Bay Area ska-punk band.
8. A 90s post punk band from Atlanta.
9. An Icelandic experimental/noise band.

Biographies are listed below:

1. The Washington DC based band:
bob has been changed to "Super bob" (all lowercase) also found by going to www.superbobmusic.com or www.myspace.com/bobband is Matt Santoro (vocals), Adam Smith (guitar), Carl Schmeig (bass), and Drew Recny (drums).  bob's currently available full-length album titled "bbbob" was recorded and produced in Vancouver, British Columbia by Garth "GGGarth" Richardson and Ben Kaplan.  An additional track titled "Busted Dreams" received programming and mix by Dave "Rave" Ogilvie.  

2. San Francisco new wave/punk band:
They released two singles ("Things That You Do", "Super Bingo!") and "Backward" LP in early 80's on Dumb Records. Members were:  Margret Blanche (bass, vocals), Pons Maar (drums), Dze Bayles (drums on 2nd 7" and LP), Jim Lively (guitar), Dewey Bruse (vibraphone, vocals).

3. The Dutch punk-rock band:
Bob is singer Victor Hamoen, guitarist Djurre Wikkerink, bassist Yorick Altena and drummer Jos Siegersma. So far they have released three songs, 'New Guitar', 'Pizza mang', and 'Wij zijn bob'. Currently they are recording their first cd. They haven't had big succes jet, but that will come soon.

4. The Austrian electro-pop band:
BOB is jörg zemmer (programming, vocals, guitar) and peter pichler (programming, vocals, keyboard) aka mastermind & the beautiful frontman. BOB was founded in 2001.

In january 2005 the self-produced and published album BOB – greatest hits vol. I – was released. In the sommer of 2005 THE alternative austrian radiostation fm4 starts to give airplay to BOBs song „yes for sure“ and selects this song for their famous sampler fm4 soundselection vol 13, which was released end of 2005. “yes for sure” of BOB is track eleven on cd two. At the moment BOB is working on their next album, having already a lot of new song-material to choose from.

the concept of BOB is to persiflage pop. BOB persiflages pop, but takes it serious. In this matter the KLF is an important band for BOB.

BOB live rocks. the e-guitar doesn’t hide it self behind the  synthy-sound and the electronic can forget about it self and suddenly one might hear techno coming out of the loudspeakers. but at the end the melodic tunes are coming back and everything is fine again.

5. The Swiss/German Techno-duo:
bob releases under the interdisco netlabel (www.interdisco.net) where you can download their releases for free.

6.  80s British indie band:
 Fabulous recording artistes for the Sombrero record label, also home to The Siddeleys, and the mighty Reserve. They released numerous singles, including the Peel Festive 50 1989 entry "Convenience" (House of Teeth Tecords), two lps Swag Sack (Sombrero) and Leave the Straight Life Behind (House of Teeth), and three Peel sessions.
http://www.myspace.com/bobhouseofteeth
http://www.myspace.com/sombrerorecordings

7. Punk-ska band:
http://www.myspace.com/prop808
aka Prop-BOB -> Prop808


8. BOB post punk from Atlanta 
Released two 7", two CDs, and appeared on a few compilations. 

9. Bob, Icelandic rock band
Icelandic band bob have been playing together since early 2002, honing their unique blend of experimental noise and ambitious pop/rock-music (reminiscent of Sonic Youth and The Velvet Underground). In Iceland their adventurous live shows have garnered praise from rock critics and stoners alike. Their debut album "dod qoq pop" was released in late 2006 to positive reviews, with the writer for the Morgunblaðið (the biggest newspaper in Iceland) calling it "..one of the most original and well crafted albums I've heard in a long time. It's avant-garde – without pretension". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bob">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.