Bobby Creekwater (born Antoine Rogers, On November 20, 1985 ) is an American rapper and hip-hop producer from Atlanta, Georgia who and former member of Shady Records.

Creekwater was born and raised in various parts of Atlanta, Georgia, and its surrounding area. He attended Clark Atlanta University for one year before leaving to pursue his music career. He and Charlie Jangles formed the hip hop duo Jatis, which was signed to Columbia Records and then Loud Records, but Loud was shut down before Jatis could release an album.

As an unsigned artist in 2004, Creekwater appeared with Aasim on the song "Anyway", from P-Money's album Magic City. Creekwater was noticed by Shady Records when label executives heard him rapping on a demo by Aasim. Shady Records president Eminem was more interested in Creekwater than Aasim and, in mid-2005, signed him to his label.

In late 2005, Creekwater released a mixtape, Anthem to the Streets. Newsweek described the recording in positive terms, saying it "delivers drug-peddling tales over the cheeriest possible dance tracks. Sesame Street sings crack rap."

In March 2006, he was one of the celebrity panelists at the Detroit Hip-Hop Summit on Financial Empowerment.

On December 5, 2006, Eminem released Eminem Presents the Re-Up, a mixtape-turned-album created to promote Shady Records' newest members: Stat Quo, Creekwater, and Cashis.Creekwater appears on five tracks, including remixes of Eminem and Nate Dogg's "Shake That" and Eminem and Akon's "Smack That". The album received mixed reviews. The Los Angeles Times wrote that Creekwater "sounds like a demonic André 3000", and the New York Daily News said he "has a deep tone and a smooth enough flow, revealed best on the jazz-funk 'There He Is'. The Sunday Mercury wrote that Creekwater is "easily the best of the three" new signings.

In 2007 he released two mixtapes, Anthem 2 Da Streetz II and Back to Briefcase. The Washington Post's critic, in writing about the single "Acid Reign", said Creekwater "threatens to usurp T.I.'s throne as King of the South with effortless rhymes and slow-burning brio.

In May 2009, Bobby Creekwater released his second EP in six months. The BC Era Deuce, the follow-up to the BC Era EP, was initially scheduled for a limited edition physical release on March 4, but was pushed back to March 18 and then to May 1 so that more features could be added. It was released via Creekwater's imprint, BGOV, Inc., and contained a collection of eleven new tracks, featuring production by Creekwater, as well.

As of August 14, Bobby Creekwater has left Shady Records. His song, "The Day I Got Dropped," clarified the situation, explaining that he didn't get dropped by the label.

Creekwater is heavily influenced by fellow Atlanta group OutKast and has stated that he believes OutKast-member André 3000 to be the greatest emcee of all time. In April 2010, Creekwater released, "Da Art of Storytellin' Pt.5" in tribute to the group <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bobby+Creekwater">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.