Where does my music fit in? everywhere...after a 16 hour a day corporate schedule (or whatever you do), after a screaming (wonderful) new born that's been up all night or after you've been on I/405 in L.A., that's when you drop "Bayside" into the CD player and go on vacation." 

That's a hint of what Bobby means by everywhere. He says "everyone (everywhere) needs time to refresh, listen to something sweet, unwind and just mellow out." He loves writing instrumentals most because it gives you freedom to reflect. 

Bobby blends hints of flavor from around the globe into a Smooth Jazz mix laced with heavy hooks. Bobby says " "hooks" are the melodic part of a song that you remember most." He continues to attract audiences of all ages and cultures. "I love worship as well, that's where my peace and joy comes from." Variety is key to this songwriter, he loves to switch it up! 

"Give me some keyboards, steel drums, sax, flute, koto, guitar, 2 strips of bacon...anything I can get my hands on. When you listen to my music you'll probably hear two of my favorite instruments (guitar & sax). I always wished that I could play those. I love using sounds and cultural rhythms as well. Inside the box? (naaa)...that's like eating corn flakes 24/7. Give me variety." 

In short, Bobby grew up in north Omaha on 37th street and Paxton Blvd. In elementary school he chose, as his first instrument, the trombone. Bobby says "I got the clue real quick...that having asthma and living in hospitals most every week-end, playing the trombone was not going to work. You need a lot of wind." 

"As a kid I lived under oxygen tents but I had my AM Radio (I repeat AM) and loved listening to it. Bobby says "all kinds of music was played on that (1) one station." As a teen I began plucking out melodies on the church piano with two fingers (still do..just kidding) until I could make a song, but playing drums was more natural." 

"I listened to musicians like Billy Cobham, Harvey Mason, Lenny White, Steve Gadd and Herbie Hancock, and became a real time keeper." I also listened to melody greats like Stevie Wonder, Paul McCartney, Michael McDonald, EWF & M. Jackson which helped me learn how to hook." 

Bobby moved to Denver and began playing drums for raggae bands doing covers of Bob Marley, Steel Pulse and Third World. But after a few years of band members not showing up for practice and making $7 -$12.00 (or a chicken dinner) a concert he thought it best to raise his family and keep his day job at the phone company. "I had a wonderful time raising my family, the memories with my wife Kathy and the little ones are priceless and will remain in my heart." 

As "Smooth Jazz" began to pickup steam he began listening to guys like George Benson, Earl Klugh, Lee Ritenour, Bob James, Michael McDonald and Spyra Gyra. Bobby practiced writing 1-2 songs a week. About 1993 he met his good friend and singer James VanBuren who heard his music and said "man, you need to get out of this corner and let other people hear your music." After releasing "Wait A Minute" Bobby decided to pursue music full time.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bobby+Wells">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.