There are (at least) four bands with the band name 'Bodega': (1) a group of talented young folk musicians from the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, UK;  (2) a serious force in the jamband scene from Philadelphia, USA., (3) a now defunct band from Cadillac, Mi., USA.  And (4) an indie band from Brooklyn who made their debut in 2018.

Bodega (1)
Formed in March 2005, Bodega are a young folk band who all hail from the Highlands and Islands of Scotland. Gillian Chalmers (Fraserburgh), Ross Couper (Shetland), Tia Files (Oban), Norrie MacIver (Isle of Lewis) and June Naylor (Isle of Skye) met while attending The National Centre of Excellence in Traditional Music in Plockton, Scotland. They also attended the High School there.

The band released their debut album, entitled 'Bodega', in 2006. The album features their trademark mixture of both traditional and 'new' folk songs (including a cover of Bob Dylan's Wagon Wheel), including several in Gaelic, along with instrumental sets of both traditional tunes with the band's own compositions. 

Bodega won the BBC Radio 2 Young Folk Award 2005/6. The band have since toured the UK appearing at several major festivals including Cambridge Folk Festival, Heb Celt and Fairport's Cropredy Convention, as well as performing in France, Italy and America.

www.myspace.com/musicbodega 

Bodega (2)
Formed in the Spring of 2006, Bodega is quickly becoming known as a serious young force in the jamband scene. Members Nick Bockrath (guitar), Peter Madonna (guitar), Steve Lyons (upright/electric bass), and Jeremy Worthington (drums/percussion) shared a vision of creating a group with an emphasis on danceable grooves, developed compositions, and positive vibes. With influences ranging from Herbie Hancock, Fela Kuti, Weather Report, Kurt Rosenwinkel, MMW, James Brown, Stevie Wonder, livetronica and beyond, Bodega has always blended elements of funk, philly soul, jazz, breakbeat, and afrobeat to make their infectious grooves, Bodega consistently keeps the bodies moving whether they are in an intimate jazz club, or a large jamband festival. Despite their young age, the members of Bodega each have very extensive musical resume's and have had/continue their high profile training and understanding in jazz, classical, and world music. You can catch Bodega playing regularly in their hometown Philadelphia opening for nationally touring acts, in New York City clubs, outdoor festivals, and all over the East Coast.

Bodega has always maintained an extended family of musicians to appear at shows. These have included keyboardist Marco Benevento (performed a full set with us at the 2007 All Good Music Festival!!!!), Rick Lowenberg (former Brothers Past drummer), Mike Greenfield (former JM2 drummer), Aaron Goode (John Legend, Jill Scott trombonist), Leon Jordan Jr. (trumpet), Korey Riker (tenor saxophone, ewi), Max Swan (alto saxophone), Mark Allen (baritone saxophone, flute), Chris Aschman (trumpet), and many others.

Bodega has had the pleasure to play with Bob Weir and Ratdog, Keller Williams, The Benevento Russo Duo, The Slip, Soulive, moe., STS9, Philadelphia brothers: Lotus, Les Claypool, The Pnuma Trio, Perpetual Groove, U-Melt, EOTO (ex. SCI), Sam Kinninger Band, MJ Project, The Subliminal Orphans, Electric City, Yonder Mtn. String Band, Grace Potter and the Nocturnals, and a host of other acts.

Bodega has performed everywhere from The Knitting Factory, World Cafe Live, The Khyber, The 2007 All Good Music Festival, The Turks Head Music Festival, The Perkasie Jazz Festival, The Lions Den, The Northstar, The Fire, and a host of other venues...

Bodega (3) Band members include: Brent Grunow (vocals), Chuk Light (rythm guitar), Joe Jermano (lead guitar), Denny Richards (bass), and Jack Jensen (drums).  Music from this incarnation of Bodega can be heard on their "Seven Hands" album.

(4) Bodega are an indie art-punk band from Brooklyn, led by singer-guitarist Ben Hozie.  They created considerable buzz at SXSW 2018.  They released their debut album Endless Scroll in July 2018, produced by Austin Brown of Parquet Courts.  Reviews have referred to the lyrics as "witty" and "sardonic." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bodega">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.