There are multiple bands called Bodies.
1. Bodies (USA)
2. Bodies(Finland)
3. Bodies(Iceland)
4. Bodies(Australia)

1) A now inactive, hardcore / metal band from Louisville, Kentucky.

Often described as, "a hellspun mixture from the bones of fornicators and the cinues of thieves and gluttons, the seeds of what would later be called Bodies were sown in the winter of 2004/2005. There, drummer Aaron Osbourne and guitar player Nick Dittmeier pursued their dream of drinking beer and listening to Black Flag every weekend at Dittmeiers house outside of Louisville, KY. 

After their respective hardcore groups disbanded months later in the summer of 2005, the two started writing songs with bassist Matt Kovarovic. The three set out to build a heavy technical machine that brought together their collective influences, which included, classic metal stalwarts Black Sabbath and Motorhead with early 90s heavyweights Unsane and Helmet, and also involving a touch of modern day metal, such as Converge and Mastodon.

They released one incredible 17 minute, 5 track EP titled 'Hurricane Bodies' on Engineer Records in 2006.

Bodies lineup included:

Adam Nicholson - Guitar
Matt Kovarovic - Bass
Nick Dittmeier - Vox/Guitar

2) Bodies was from Oulu, Finland and they played Aggressive melodic heavy metal.
Started in the Summer of 1996 and their journey ended after two promo cd releases in 2001.
A live cd from Luolamies, JKL (18.10.1998) is available along with a fan live dvd, Live at Wanha-Werneri, Oulu (30.01.1998.)

Last known line-up:
Vesa Mattila - guitars (Final Dawn, Codeon)
Juha Simola - guitars (Serenity's End, ex-The RMS, ex-Firewall)
Teemu Malimaa - bass
Teemu Hautaniemi - drums (TarpitOrchestra, ex-Heimia, ex-dieselbunny, ex-Firewall, ex-God Forsaken, ex-Mythos)

Bodies live videos @ youtube




3) Bodies is also an Icelandic HC Punk/Post-Punk band, who recorded a song, "Where Are The Bodies?", for the soundtrack of the 1982 documentary Rokk Í Reykjavík which is about the alternative/punk scene in Iceland. The compilation featured 34 songs from about 25 Icelandic underground artists.

4) Band from Melbourne, Australia.  Recently released their self titled debut Album on BMX records.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bodies">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.