1. Fuck Mike Harpring! Just kidding. Bodyhammer was not only a lineup-changing machine, they were a noisy, screamy, sometimes chaotic hardcore band in the late 90s that was kind of Born Against-ish (in fact they covered "Mary and Child"). They did two east coast tours (1999 + 2000). In their time they played shows with the Locust, Creation is Crucifiction, Catharsis, Converge, Isis, Majority Rule, Mastodon, Murder City Devils and many more. Not that any of that matters...

The band began in 1997 as a three piece with Mike Harpring, Corey Lyons and Andy Schanie.

In 1998 (?) Thommy Browne expressed interest in playing drums for the band, the trio gave it a shot and the 'Hammer was forever changed for the better. Mike temporarily moved to bass, until he moved back to drums with the departure of Thommy. Much to the benefit of the band, Ben Cundiff took over the bass duties (this isn't saying anything bad about Mike's bass playing, but rather emphasizing Ben's gifted musicianship. Mike also rules.). The migration of Andy from bass and vocals to just vocals gave the band an added dynamic that in many ways defined their live shows and reputation for going off.

Corey Lyons left for "higher" education at Antioch College, and the band was left in flux. He returned in the summer of 2000 with the intention of training his replacement, Eric Young, before heading off to a summer internship/co-op in Boston. To say Eric and Corey hit it off would be an understatement, and Corey quickly changed his summer plans to stay in Louisville and rock out with Bodyhammer. This, of course, was merely a summertime love affair, and although it led to a second east coast tour and the album, Die Young Amplifiers, it laid the groundwork for a series of lineup changes that lasted until the band finally called it quits in 2002, before the band could release another record that had already been recorded. 

2. Polish producer releasing on SmokeSkull Records <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/BODYHAMMER">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.