There are 3 bands that go by the name Bodyfarm.
Bodyfarm 1  :  Is a Dutch old school death metal band from Amersfoort.
Bodyfarm 2  is an American Death/thrash metal band from Wisconsin
Bodyfarm 3  is a German Electro / Indie / Industrial band from Bernau, Brandenburg

Bodyfarm from Amersfoort, the Netherlands:

In the late summer of ’09, drummer Quint Meerbeek drove guitarist/vocalist Thomas Wouters home after Thomas did a gig with his previous band in Rotterdam. 
Not content with the band Thomas played in at that time, he asked Quint if he was interested in forming a brand new no-nonsense death metal formation. 
A few days later the two of them hooked up for a few beers to talk some shit over, and a week later they met in the rehearsal room. 
This combination seemed an instant success, and Bodyfarm was born, hailing from their beloved hometown of Amersfoort. Heavily influenced by bands like Grave, Vomitory, Cannibal Corpse, Obituary, Morbid Angel, Massacre, Vader, and many others, they decided NOT to be a specifically innovative, technical or refreshing band: “We play plain death metal, and have fun while doing it. 
As long as it’s aggressive, catchy, groovy and raw we are good with it. 
We are not doing something new, we’re just doing what sounds good to us and try to keep it relatively primitive. 
"Our only message is to enjoy death metal the way it’s supposed to sound”

Bodyfarm is rehearsing weekly, working hard on their repertoire. 
Thomas and Quint decided to be the rock solid foundation, and creative force behind the band to make sure Bodyfarm will always keep it’s unique but recognizable sound. 
“So we went looking for musicians who wanted to play with us live, and eventually found them. 
Bram as a guitarist, and Mathieu, a the bass player. 
Both experienced and fast learning musicians, and that is exactly what we were looking for” Bodyfarm is working hard on composing new songs every week to thrash with a worthy setlist. 
If you are interested as a band to do a gig with us, or are you a venue who wants us to play? Contact us!

Bodyfarm brought out their first  EP, which contains five professionally produced tracks. 
To approach the sound they wanted, they contacted their friend Harry van Breda from www.oerknalsudios.nl, who is also the vocalist for Dutch death metal band I CHAOS. 
He also plays session bass on this EP. 
You can order this EP via their Myspace  page, just send them a message and check out the other merch too! Tshirts and also girlies available!
Bodyfarm is currently signed with ABYSS records, and are playing numerous gigs in Holland and Germany. 
They are also working on songs for their first Full Length album at this moment.
For more info please check their Myspace:

http://www.myspace.com/bodyfarmnl

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bodyfarm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.