There are two bands named Bohema:
(1) Brutal death metal band from Tbilisi, Georgia.
(2) Alternative Rock band from Poland.

(1) 
Biography:
The formation, titled BOHEMA created in 2001 by drummer, Paata Baramidze (aka BONEM). The band’s often changing staff periodically united on drummer’s initiative to prepare live performances, which basic part consisted of cover versions of compositions of GRIND, DEATH and BLACK metal famous and legendary bands. So band usually had live concerts and performances, but after that band as usual was dismissing. This tendency on their biography continued until 2005. Coming in band new guitarist and vocalist George Gelashvili in 2006 begins the new age and new level of band’s evolution. Now there are two musicians - Paata Baramidze and George Gelashvili, united around the band’s title BOHEMA. These are two musicians with same appearances, same opinions about kind of music, they have to play and show us. These guys are BOHEMA’s permanent members from 2006. After year of hard work and repetitions new bassist George Zautashvili have joined them, he is Georgian DEATH METAL band ANGEL OF DISEASE bassist. And after that BOHEMA’s staffing was finally completed. On the soil of extreme rhythms, brutal and hard Asian riffs BOHEMA worked out its conception and ideology, which has finally represented on their lyrics. First part of there lyrics narrates us about ancient mythology of Shumer government. That was on initiative of BOHEMA’s ‘spiritual confessor’ Ernest Khabaian (aka DemarieL). Another and more extensive part of lyrics consists of philosophical sense sphere 

Line-up:
George Gelashvili - Lead And Rhythm Guitars,acoustic guitars, All Vocals
Paata Baramidze - Drums And Percussion
Giorgi Zautashvili - Bass

Web: http://www.myspace.com/bohemaofficial




(2)
Biography:
They are a Polish rock’n’roll band from Warsaw.
They've just released their second album "Santi Subito". Their songs are mainly about Polish reality, such as the new Polish government, and universal themes, like pop culture, reality shows. They combine a mixture of influences - The Rolling Stones, The Clash, Franz Ferdinand, as well as Polish punk from the 80's, during the martial law period. These influences are reflected in their latest album, which also includes four songs sung in English (Radio, This Kind of Love, Sweden, She Ain't Comin' Back). They've played in many different venues, both abroad and in Poland, and supported Green Day in June 2006 at a concert in Katowice. Their singles from the first record "Ginger" and "Hell Woman” reached the top of the Polish MTV charts.

Line-up:
* Piotr Lipka (vocal)
* Bartek Peciakowski (drums)
* Michał Jankowski (key instruments)
* Piotr Czajer (giutars)
* Łukasz Lubaszka (bass) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bohema">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.