Bolesno Grinje are a grindcore band from Pula, Croatia.

In the beginning of year 2000 Hoc-bass guitar player (ex Anti-Otpad) and Rio-drummer (Desinence Mortification) have decided to make a band that will play something new in the Croatian extreme music scene, so they made some combination of hard core crust with some grind parts.

In a short time Mrki-guitar player (Screaming Vagina) and Angeri-vocal (ex Spiridon Mekas Crust aka S.M.C) have joined band, and that was Bolesno Grinje crew till the beginning of year 2002  than Mrki decided to quit and new member has joined Bolesno Grinje this was Jule-guitar player (ex Anti-Otpad) and this is final crew of Bolesno Grinje, and it is like this nowadays too.

First stuff that they decided to record was an 18 songs album called "Pobjeda je nasa" (Victory is ours) and it was in the beginning of year 2001 in the studio "Ja sam glup" (I'm stupid).

This stuff was released by Endless Brutality of Man records (Mexico) in the July / 2005.
Some songs from "Pobjeda je nasa" in combination with some other songs that we have recorded in the same time were released on the split LP with Slovenian band Sodn' Dan by Humanita Nova / D.I.Y. in year 2002.

Their second full length album was released by the same label E.B.M records (Mexico) in March / 2006 it is called "Od nesvijesti do grinda" (From unconsciousness to the grind) and it was recorded in the same studio in the year 2003.

Nowadays they have signed up for Deathbag records (USA) and they will release their last stuff that we recorded in the studio "Ja sam gluh" (I'm deaf) in the year 2005. and it's called "Nitko nas ne vidi... ali mi ipak postojimo" (Nobody sees us... but we do exist).

The EP "-1 mozak" (minus one brain) was released on The Monteparadiso Netlabel. You can download all the songs in uncompressed format (but also mp3 and ogg) under a Creative Commons license from here.

In 2006 they recorded album "Nitko nas ne vidi... ali mi ipak postojimo" CD (Deathbag records, USA).
In 2007 they recorded "Bolesno Grinje/Mercenary Cockroach"split CD (Endless Brutality of Men records, Mexico).
In 2009 they recorded "Krvave ruke-Krvavi novac" CD (Endless Brutality of Men records, Mexico).

Their official web site can be found http://www.bolesnogrinje.org
You can find them on Myspace.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bolesno+Grinje">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.