About BOLTHARD
The band was formed back in 2001 by the singer and the two guitar players. They needed about 3 years to establish their own style, an intelligent mixture of classical thrash like in the ’80s and typical old school technical death metal tunes. The first ever recording of Bolthard was a track recorded in the rehearsal room and then it was included on one of the Romanian Compilations Metal Masters which was distributed for free to the interested people from the media. Anyway, the recording back then was not very professional, concerning the quality of the sound, so the band did not promoted that recording too much! In the early days of 2004, the band is moving to Bucharest, considering this is the best thing to be done for future plans. After some line-up changes, the most important one being the former drummer with an underground veteran from Bucharest, Doru, well known for his activities in many brutal bands from the ‘90s and a session bass player in the person of Irinel Carlanaru (Sphera Noctis), Bolthard starts to conquer the Romanian stages, playing many club gigs in Bucharest and the rest of the country. In less than half a year, the band’s reputation is totally established and Bolthard is one of the most promising combos in the romanian metal underground! The fanzines, webzines and magazines made also very supportive reviews concerning the live appearences of the band, moreover the band started to have their own fans’ base who constantly joined their concerts. It’s one more reason for Bolthard to be opening act for the Greek black metal legends Rotting Christ, to be the support act in two gigs from the tour of the Austrian old school death metal band Possession and play with many other underground metal bands from Romania or abroad. Also Bolthard recorded their first proffesional material in the summer of 2005, more exactly one single track called “Thrash Your Dreams” to be used as promotion in the local and international media! This material was released as a multimedia promo CD including also a video recording from one of the band’s shows, just to present Bolthard in all its strong aspects. Moreover, “Thrash Your Dreams” was confirmed to be included on the free compilation CD coming for free with the 4th issue of the Romanian Axa Valaha zine. Once again Bolthard changed the line-up in the early autumn of 2005, more exactly the bass player. Irinel had to leave due to musical disagreements and he was replaced with George, a bass player known for his cooperation with various local bands from Bucharest. Moreover, the band decided to make a pause with live activities and to prepare the first official material; a full equipment set was provided for doing this hard job. At the end of 2008, Costi joined Bolthard as the new drummer. Also George had to leave, being replaced with Flavius (known for his activity in bands like Marsyas and Abigail).In present, the band is working hard, and rehearsing for future live shows, the main priority being that the material for their first album, is ready until the summer of 2009.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bolthard">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.