More than one artist is called "Bolt".

1) Bolt is a hardcore band formed in 1997, Helsinki, Finland.

After the silence of a well deserved hiatus Helsinki’s hardest are back with seven inches of full-fledged noise. The new vinyl EP boasts four banger songs and classic art work, both of guaranteed Bolt exellence. After 2003’s ”Deep Within” full length, Bolt have played shows around Finland and Europe, as well as across the puddle, where they played the New Year’s Festival in Syracuse, and a club gig in NYC. Recorded in the summer of 2006, ”Self-Made” is out now on Full House Records. 

The new material shows a self-assured and matured Bolt. More solid and energetic, it’s a further refinement of the sound of ”Deep Within”. Old school to new, the influences have become more and more difficult to name with every Bolt release. While remaining true to them and their own style, they’ve taken it further, made it their own. It’s undeniably one hundred percent Helsinki Hardcore. Just like it has been, for a decade now.

Bolt truly are ”Self-Made”. As a band, and as active members of the Helsinki hardcore scene ever since its non-existence, they are considered to be among the scene’s founding fathers. Just like the EP’s title track declares: ”Abandoned the old and created our own ways. Arise from the ash into a new day. We shall reign our world...”, they have created a world of their own, and it's still here because they've kept true to it. Persistent, uncompromising and unbending, Bolt are a band you will keep hearing about.

Since the release of ”Self-Made” they’ve been playing shows and having fun on road trips, including a few European dates with NYC’s legendary Bulldoze.

Their latest release is a split 7" with Eye For All. http://thtuur.bandcamp.com/album/bolt-eye-for-all-7

True Colors (2013)
Eye For All / Bolt -split 7" (2011)
Behind Obstacles Lies Truth (2009)
Self-Made 7" (2006)
Deep Within (2003)
Collision Course (2000)
Death From Above / Bolt -split 7" (1999)
Rehearsal tape (Demo) (1997)

2) Bolt is a Melodic Hard Rock band.
Mark Borrero lead guitar, lead and backing vocals. Stan Martel producer bass, backing vocals, Bobby Amaru drums, Jake Harding lead guitar.

This project has taken 3 years to perfect and manages to satisfy the needs of those searching for the ultimate sound.

3) Bolt is a Thrash Metal band from Seoul, South Korea.
They released the album "A Bolt from the Blue" in 1999. They were featured on the "Am I Metallica" tribute CD.

4) Bolt was a progressive rock band from Columbia, SC.  They released two albums, Circadian Rhythm (2003) and Movement and Detail (2005). 

5) Bolt is an alternative rapper based out of Dallas, Texas. With features from Yeat and SwagGoKrazy, the Dallas native dropped his mixtape "X Factor" in October of 2021 to critical reception. Bolt followed this up with "2.15.22", a three-track single that underlines a style that is growing and evolving in the world of hip-hop music today. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bolt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.