There are at various artists named Bomber

1. A hardcore punk band from Virginia Beach, Virginia who released a 7inch called "Mourning EP" on Cowabunga! Records.

2. A noise rock project.

3. A high energy Hard Rock band with a sound that is sometimes compared to early Metallica and Alice in chains mixed with the new rock sounds of Bullet for my valentine and Avenged Sevenfold. Without a doubt, Bomber clearly has originality all of its own. There E.P. “out on a limb” was released in March of 2007. Bomber is now finishing up there full length release "Superblinded" due out in May of 2008, with their video "Overloaded" to follow. Bomber consists of: Vocalist and guitarist- Jeff McGraw a.k.a. “Quick” Guitarist- Frank Fiorenza a.k.a. “Rizzo” Drummer- Sajym Bickert a.k.a. “Muppet” Bassist- Robbie Hyde a.k.a. “Mr. Hyde” Bomber brings remarkable musicianship to their music and outstanding drive that you won’t find in all bands. Bomber was conceived by four friends from different parts of the states coming together to create one of the top drawing acts in Arizona. Jeff from Detroit, Frank from New York, and Sajym and Robbie from Phoenix together have brought influences from all around the country to put together a marketable, professional package that is being noticed by radio and music professionals through out the world.

4. Novi Sad Oi! band

5. An RAC and Heavy Metal band from Meerane, Saxony, Germany. Fronted by Thomas "Kalle" H. on vocals.

6. A hip-hop artist from East London

7. A producer alias for Brazilian digicore musician twikipedia.

8. A Swedish hard rock band from Malmö with Anton Sköld on vocals and lead guitars, Love Andersson on bass, Rasmus Grahn on drums and Max Huddén on lead guitar . Released 'Nocturnal Creatures' in 2022.

9. A Soca musician with a famous song called Doctor Kitch <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bomber">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.