Band was gathered in Sarajevo, ex-Yugoslavia in 1986. They choose the name Bombarder (Bomber), because they bombed headbangers’s heads, in a positive way. 
First full length album “Speed kill” was released in 1989. on MC. It was raw speed heavy metal influenced by Motorhead and Exciter . 
Second, the most famous and successful LP “Bez milosti” (No mercy) was released in 1991. and it is cult classic Speed Metal album in ex-Yugoslavia. People across whole old Yugoslavia liked them because of their spontaneous, natural and true approach to the music they were playing. Because of that, they were unofficial headliners of almost every metal festival in ex-Yugoslavia. Singer and leader of the group, Nenad Kovacevic, is the real showman and he definitely knows to entertain the audience with his jokes between and during the songs. He also has the recognizable style of narrative, out of rhythm, singing with his lyrics written in Serbian language, which is the one of the main weapons of the band. Lyrics in songs are inspired by real life, fiction horror, anger... They also released video “Sarajevo - Novi Sad” with video clips and live clips from the first (before the war) phase of the band. 
Than came war in Yugoslavia and band stops to play in 1992
After the war Nenad Kovacevic moved from Sarajevo (Bosnia) to Belgrade (Serbia) and as the only former member, he gathered some new guys to continue working, so it was the new beginning and second, after the war, phase of the band. In this period band released three more albums in traditional Thrash Speed Metal style and one Best of CD called “Bez ballads” (No ballads). 
Album “Crno, crnje od crnog” (Black, blackest than black) was the album directly inspired by war in Bosnia. In the lyrics on it, Nenad Kovacevic described his life through that hard time - his physical state full of pain and anger. So the tempo on the whole album is much slower then the first and second album. After that album band splits again, and 1996. Nenad gathered final line up which is active ever since. Band records album “Ko sam ja” (Who am I?). Last album "Ledena krv" (Ice blood) was recorded in Belgrade, as the past two albums. It is the band’s most heavier and by themselves, best album. It is mixture of speed thrash and somewhere even black and death metal. It also have some experimental songs, like, for example the title song, where they had two guest female vocalists from Belgrade’s metal gothic band Abonos, and one modern metal song with some samples. As until now, the lyrics are on Serbian language and the themes are fictions and horrors. Really true metal album. In 2011 band released album called Ima li zivota prije smrti? (Is there a life before death).

Jaksa Vlahovic (guitarist) and Milan Jankovic(drums) also have another metal gothic band called Abonos. Rastko Licina is guitarist in new line up,  and Predrag Saric (bass) played in Bosnian death metal band called Sadismo. 

Discography: Speed Kill - MC 1989 Bez milosti (No mercy) - LP 1991 Crno, crnje od crnog (Black, blackest than black) - MC 1995 Ko sam ja? (Who am I?) - MC 1997 Bez balads - najbolje (No ballads-Best of) - CD 2000 Ledena krv (Ice blood) - CD / LP 2003  Ima li zivota prije smrti? (Is there a life before death) - CD 2011 Videography: Sarajevo - Novi Sad (video cassette)

http://www.myspace.com/bombardermetal.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bombarder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.