There are several artists called Bone:

1. Bone is a power trio formed in 2002, featuring Nick Didkovsky (Doctor Nerve), Hugh Hopper (Soft Machine), and John Roulat (Forever Einstein).  Their album Uses Wrist Grab was released in 2003.
Official web site: http://www.doctornerve.org/bone

2. Bone is an Australian post-hardcore band formed in Perth in 2006. They have a raw, noisy, groove based sound that has been compared to early 90's noise rock bands like Shellac and The Jesus Lizard, as well as more contemporary 'math' acts like Battles and Oxes. Now based in Melbourne, it’s members are Jonathan Shub (guitar and lead vocals), Mike Ward (bass), Nate Barnett (guitar and backup vocals) and Sam Reid (drums).

In their early incarnation as a three piece, consistent gigging on Perth's house party/pub circuit earned them a strong local fanbase. This early popularity translated to support slots with international bands Future of the Left, Andrew W.K, Die! Die! Die! and Clockcleaner; as well as notable Australian acts such as My Disco, Blacklevel Embassy and Grey Daturas.

The debut EP 'Pass The Butter' was recorded during this period. The limited run of 100 copies quickly sold out from sales both at shows and from the band's website.

The addition of Barnett as a second guitarist/vocalist in 2008 ushered in the current period of Bone, cueing a heavier, more abrasive sound and inspiring a move to Melbourne in 2009 to play to a wider audience. Intensive jamming in Melbourne rehearsal rooms quickly led to 7 new songs, showcased on the new EP 'Face Prison' - recorded at Head Gap Studios with Neil Thomason. So far the EP has been supported with a sell-out tour to Perth with Victorian punk band The Beat Disease.

Bone are now playing regularly around the Melbourne pub circuit, and working on an eclectic range of new songs for an upcoming album. Providing venues allow them to play at a sufficiently loud volume, Bone has no intention to stop playing music: whether this leads them to success, or a life sentence at Woolworths, time will tell.

3. Bone is a House/Techno band on Uk label Deconstruction, circa 1994.

4. Bone is a Drum'n'bass artist from Estonia.

5. Bone is a hip-hop artist.

6. Bone is a death/black/thrash metal band from Denmark. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.