Bonfires is the name of multiple artists. 1. pop punk band from Chicago. 2. rock band from the UK.

(1.) Bonfires was a pop punk /indie rock band from the south suburbs of Chicago. They came about after the members previous band Hometown Heroes dissolved. They played together til the end of 2015 when lead singer Zech Pluister left the band to front  Sleep On It. Other members would go on to play in bands Better Love & Stillwell. You can listen to their music here: https://bonfiresil.bandcamp.com/

(2.) A band with its roots set firmly in the glory of live music, Bonfires take a range of influences across the last fifty years of contemporary rock and roll. A close knit unit that have been friends for as long as they can remember, growing up both musically and personally amidst the era between the collapse of US grunge and the rise of early britpop in the 1990's. This is reflected in Stuart Whistons 'big chorus' style of songwriting which he couples with a soft and loud (very loud) guitar dynamic, taking influence from Nirvana, early Oasis as well as showing traces from shoegaze era artists and noise pop such as The Jesus and Mary Chain, Echo & the Bunnymen and early Verve. Underneath Darren 'Eddie' Edwards provides both crunching riffs as well as softer 'Hooky' basslines influenced by both heavy grunge and dance grooves from the likes of Pixies, Queens of the Stone Age, New Order and The Stone Roses. This is all locked into the pounding drums of Mike 'Donnie' Lo Bosco, who is equally inspired from the punk drumming of Travis Barker, the driving force of early Oasis as well as more modern grooves from the likes of The Music. This is all combined into one glorious noise of elevating songs with memorable melodies. Bonfires offer a homegrown familiarality that is never alienating nor offensive, yet never shy nor reserved. A blunt, to the point and yet fun delivery of tales of modern life.

www.myspace.com/bonfiresuk
www.facebook.com/pages/Bonfires/59636687027
www.twitter.com/bonfiresuk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/bonfires">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.