Booby Trap were born in 1993 in the city of Aveiro and they were rather successful at the time with their metal / hardcore sound (although mixing other influences such as punk or hip-hop), the original lineup were Pedro Junqueiro (vocals), Pedro Azevedo (guitar), Miguel Santos (drums) Nuno Barbosa (guitar) and Ricardo Melo (bass).
They launched their debut demo "Brutal Intervention" in 1994 and a split CD "Mosh It Up" in 1996 with the Brazilian bands T.I.T. and Locus Horrendus among many other appearances on several compilations.
Among the hundreds of concerts, shared stages with many bands such as Cruel Hate, Inkisição, Dorsal Atlantica, GBH, Cradle Of Filth, Gorefest, Grave, Hypocrisy, Moonspell, Primitive Reason, Hate Over Grown, Genocide, WC Noise , among many others. Booby Trap concerts were known for giving very powerful shows in that the discharge energy and the interaction with the public were highly valued. Played at mythical rock/metal places in Portugal such as Johnny Guitar, Cave das Quimicas, Voz do Operario, CTS Celas and the festival Penafiel Ultra Brutal.
Their lyrics showed a strong opinion and criticism of a social nature amid hints of black humor.
Pioneered and front image for a musical movement developed in the region that became known nationally as "Aveiro Connection."
After they split in 1997, its elements have led to several other bands as Superego, Anger, Strange Airplane, Snowball, Konk and Wild Bull.
Reunite in 2012 with a renewed line up, entering as a bass player Carlos Ferreira (ex-Deep Pression and Hu-Matic) for two concerts in their home town with bands such as WAKO, Echidna and Estado de Sitio, in order to pay tribute to all who attended, supported and never forgot the band over the years.
As these two performances were so well received by the public they decide to continue its activity as a band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Booby+Trap">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.