In the world of Hip-Hop, Atlanta based Boog Brown spreads her “Dope Girl Magic” like her life depends on it and returns us to the roots of a genre that has literally changed the world.  

Currently based in Atlanta, Detroit native Brown is not only an emcee, poet and publisher; but she describes herself as a “lover, fighter and artist.” This is reflected in her personal style, lyrical approach and unique perspective.  

Though she has been an emcee for roughly 3 years, her writing goes back to the age of 15, allowing her to amass an arsenal of lyrics including two chapbooks of poetry, Swimming Against the Current State of Mind: My Life In Words and Black Tie Fish Fry, and her debut mixtape, the 2007 release entitled Extended Play.

With tracks like "The Essence", "Dope Girl Magic" and "The Mirror," Brown collaborated with noted Hip-Hop artists and producers including Illastrate, Rita J, Aarophat, Apollo Brown, Invincible, StaHHr, and 14KT, who describes her voice as “the illest.” According to 14KT “Boog displays truth, confidence, style and a strong sense of integrity in Hip Hop.”  

Brown has been spotlighted in various print publications including Creative Loafing, The Industry Crusher Magazine and across the blogosphere having been featured on ATLHipHop.net and TheFembassy.com. Most Recently, Boog Brown's classic track The Essence appeared on BET's documentary My Mic Sounds Nice.  

In a candid interview with blogger Robo Robb (Robo Robb Radio), Brown described her southern roots, strong ties to the Detroit and Atlanta HipHop scenes and how she refuses to give credence to the so-called “Boys Club” that is present in the Hip Hop industry, and doesn’t get caught up in the fact that she is a woman in Hip Hop. “The Boys Club is non-existent to me,” she said. She released a mixtape, entitled The Grind Season, in early 2010. Additionally, she describes her debut album Brown Study, (Mello Music Group), a collaborative project with Hip-Hop producer Apollo Brown as the “most vulnerable” she has been musically. The notable hip-hop site BloggerHouse had this to say about Boog Brown on the Brown Study project: "Boog will undoubtedly draw comparison’s to Jean Grae" and "her flow is effortless, she laces her rhymes with clever wit and most importantly, her vulnerability and honesty shines through on each track."  

Brown describes Hip-Hop as “returning to its origins” and in ten years sees herself “as a well respected, established artist, writing and recording stateside and abroad.” She doesn’t simply eat, breathe and live Hip-Hop; she reflects its history and takes it where it needs to be. To know Boog Brown is to understand Hip-Hop. To experience her is to live it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boog+Brown">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.