There are several bands named Boomerang:
1) A 1970's Progressive/Blues band from the USA.
2) An Uruguayan pop/rock band.
3) A jazz fusion group from Kazahkstan.
4) A power metal band from Germany founded in 1996.
5) A new wave/pop trio from USA.
6) Slovenian rock band from Koper formed in 1970, active in 70s and early 80s in former Yugoslavia.
7) A rock band from Surabaya, Indonesia.


1) Boomerang was a Heavy Progressive Blues Rock band from the USA. It was formed in 1970 by Mark Stein, organist & vocalist, formerly from Vanilla Fudge. However, their style was more influenced by Black Sabbath and Iron Butterfly than by Vanilla Fudge. Other members: Jo Casmir (bass, vocals), James Galluzi (drums) and Richard Rameriz {as spelled on the album}, (guitars), who was 16 years old. They only released a self-titled album in 1971. There are
rumors about an unreleased 2nd album.

2) Boomerang is a Uruguayan pop/rock band. Band members are Gonzalo (vocals, rhythm guitar), Sanjo (lead guitar), Pablo (bass guitar), Alvaro (hammond organ) and Nico (drums). In May 2005 they released their only album so far, called PREMIERE.

4) Boomerang is a power metal band from Germany founded in 1996. Band members are: Thomas Fahrnbach, Axel Johann, Andreas Reichard, Daniel Schäfer and Stefan Zobel. They have released three albums: Weaveworld (2002), Balance of Hate (2005) and Sounds of Sirens (2007).

5) Boomerang is also new wave/pop trio, who recorded a self-titled album in 1986 for Atlantic Records under the name Boomerang. Boomerang is Adriana Kaegi, Cheryl Poirier, and Perri Lister. The group's 'hit' was a cover of "These Boots Are Made For Walkin'". The group itself is a spin-off of the earlier 80s trio The Coconuts, itself a side project for the backing singers of Kid Creole and The Coconuts. That group featured Adriana Kaegi and Cheryl Poirier.

6) Boomerang also known as Bumerang were a Progressive Rock band from Koper, Slovenia...
Past Members: Goran Tavčar (guitar), Danilo Kocjančič (guitar), Peter Veri Gorjup (guitar), Ladi Koradin (bass), Miro Tomassini (bass), Zlatko Miksić (bass), Boris Tenčić (guitar, vocals, flute), Dino Sartoretto (bass, vocals), Dario Vatovac (drums), Zlatko Klun (vocals, percussion ), Jadran Ogrin (bass), Ćiro Lončina (keyboards), Vedran Božić (guitar), Sergio Blažić (vocals), Pavel Kavec (guitar), Bruno Langer (bass), And, Tihomir Pop Asanović (keyboards)...

7) Boomerang is also a rock band from Surabaya, Indonesia. Boomerang founded in 1994. The band members are: Roy Jeconiah (vocals), Hubert Henry Limahelu (bass guitar), Farid Martin (drums), Andry Franzzy (guitar) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boomerang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.