Boozoo Bajou is a musical duo from Germany. They are noted for their distinct blend of Cajun sounds with island rhythms. 2014 saw the release of their latest album, 4. The Nuremberg natives behind the music are Peter Heider and Florian Seyberth. Boozoo Bajou's first album, Satta, was released in 2001. The list of Boozoo Bajou remixes for other artists include Common, Tosca, Trüby Trio, and Tony Joe White.

Summer 2001: On the Nuremberg based Downbeat/Lounge/Nu Jazz Label STEREO DELUXE the group BOOZOO BAJOU released their 10 track debut album SATTA. Since 1997 the duo Peter Heider and Florian Seyberth aka BOOZOO BAJOU caught the eye of DJ's and other hipsters through the release of three twelve inch records (Night over Manaus, Under my Sensi, and Divers) which brought a whole lot of club-play and smaller notification all over the world. Two years later SATTA has sold more than 65.000 times all over the world excluding bootlegs which surfaced in such strange places as Thailand. The album has turned into a classic and is described as a milestone for the downbeat scene. Those 10 tracks from SATTA can now be found on more than 120 CD compilations worldwide and the music was used on half a dozen top class tv adverts.

After bringing BOOZOO BAJOU on the road by dj'ing all over the world in 2002 the group got lots of requests for a compilation CD of their favourite tracks by other artists. Subsequently they released JUKE JOINT, a 20 piece mix compilation in spring 2003 which again got a worldwide positive feedback especially due to the wooden box which was the packaging for the limited edition. 

During 2003 BOOZOO BAJOU played a whole lot of live DJ shows (for example with The Cinematic Orchestra in Berlin or at Vienna's Dubclub) and did a few more remixes for Tony Joe White, Henry Mancini, and Nelly Furtado. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boozoo+Bajou">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.