Boreas are 2 different bands.

1. Black Metal band from Kansas City, MO.

2. Boreas - An entrancing musical union between Scotland and Norway. www.boreasband.com

2. Boreas began as a collaboration between two of the premier young folk musicians in Europe - fiddler and singer Lori Watson Scottish Borders and the Norwegian Hardanger fiddle player Britt Pernille Frøholm from Hornindal in Sogn og Fjordane.
Boreas has now evolved into a band consisting of four accomplished performers who have become greatly distinguished in their own specialisms. Lori Watson and Britt Pernille Frøholm are joined by Irene Tillung on accordion and Innes Watson on guitar, and together they have a passion for new and experimental forms of music creating a new expression based on the Norwegian and Scottish folk music, which emphasizes both community and differences between the Norwegian and Scottish music.
All four musicians are in addition to Boreas involved in many exciting projects. Lori Watson is a prolific musician in Scotland and her trio, Lori Watson and Rule of Three has released several critically acclaimed albums and toured much of Europe as well as Canada. Innes Watson is a front line member of Treacherous Orchestra, a thirteen piece folk-fusion band currently touring throughout the UK. Irene Tillung is a versatile musician who has toured extensively for concerts, both domestically and abroad, and is a member of award-winning trio, Tindra. Britt Pernille Frøholm has released several albums and has performed many kinds of music from solo folk music on Hardanger fiddle to collaborations with contemporary composers and free-improvising bands.
Combining Scots song and fiddle traditions with Dance music and song melodies from the West of Norway along with contemporary arrangement ideas and textures, Boreas are set to make waves across the North Sea and beyond. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boreas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.