*** The Band's first album is now online on our website : http://album.boreamusic.com ! You can listen and download some full mp3 for free  ***

Borea is an alternative pop band. It could have been labeled as 'alternative pop rock' but rock is dead, god bless it. A trash death Creole tinge could also have been added here, however it was pertinently decided that this wouldn't be necessary either. 
Let it rather be simply said that Britpop and barock n' roll melodies somehow combine here.    

THE BAND
Fred sings, plays the piano and the guitar - seldom simultaneously - and he wrote many pieces in Sweden. The piano is definitely his favorite instrument and he admits he even finds some pleasure in listening to Rachmaninov's - full - Preludes!  
After winning three French acrobatic rollerblading championships, Fred changed direction and went into music. Ain't it strange?..  

Kris is one of a kind. She is above all creative. She designed and made 80% of her wardrobe. Her nimble fingers play groove after groove as quickly as her sewing machine. As she is into painting, photography and interior design, her very person is a concept! 

Nick is an English-speaking drummer as he also teaches English. As an open-minded music lover, he draws influence from such various artists as Supergrass, Radiohead, The Strokes, Muse, Keane, Beck, Röyksopp, Mocheeba, or even Archive. Now read this: His ambition is to make Borea the most downloaded band...



THE STORY
In 2004, Fred Volpi's first pieces were written with Swedish northern lights as a backdrop. The piano, guitar and bass parts were compiled under the name 'Borea'. They were characterized by their tuneful style and a mood echoing with Tim Burton's movies. Fred was then a pianist in a musical - LuleSpexet 2005. This enabled him to give public performances during a Swedish tour including many towns: Stockholm, Lulea, Linköping, Skelleftea, Göteborg...    


2. Also a death/thrash metal band from Poland with one full-length album from 1993 - Whose Fault. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Borea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.