Boris has done as much work under his own name as he has under a band name. In 2003, Boris joined Johnny Coffin for a studio project called The Autumn Dead. Boris did not write for this project, but provided lead vocals and drums. Johnny Coffin wrote all of the material and the two of them handled engineering and producing the project. Together they recorded and distributed a CD of demos. Their final work together came in 2004 when they reunited in the studio to record The Autumn Dead's version of "Winter Wonderland" for Christmas.

Also in 2003, Boris provided music for Bill Hinzeman's stage adaptation of Night Of The Living Dead. The music was Boris' first experience with scoring, as it was orchestral instruments.

In 2005, Boris teamed up with a plethora of genre favorites and making guest appearances by lending his vocals to the following:

Necrophagia "Goblins Be Thine"

Nokturne "Kruelty Kampaign"

Children Of October "Lover's Lane"

Morgue Wagon

By this time, Boris' music was making regular appearances on Rue Morgue Radio in the form of songs released (and unreleased) as well as incidental background music for the show. Boris also wrote the original Rue Morgue Radio show theme song and followed up with two more since.

In late 2005, early 2006, Boris released his first solo album title "Season Of Death: The Last Halloween." The disc was self released on Boris' Pagan Club Records and was limited to a pressing of fifty copies. The 63 minute album contained 23 tracks of harder edged experimental punk inspired by Boris' interests in the occult and the Pagan religion. At this time, the album remains out of print with no repressing scheduled.

In late 2007 Boris was called upon by Rue Morgue Radio host, Tomb Dragomir, to write the music for a Rue Morgue Radio promotional video.

In December Of 2008, Boris lent his guitar talents to local greats Children Of October as a live guitarist at the band's Pittsburgh show opening for Punk Legends, The Misfits.

In late 2008 Boris put together his first band since Hallowmas called Season Of Sin. The band is in the early stages of their career.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boris+Randall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.