There is more than one artist named Born Again:

1) Czech metalcore band from Jindrichiv Hradec. myspace.com/6bornagain6

2) Born Again was an American psychedelic rock band active in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Originally from Marin County in northern California and calling themselves Red Mountain, a demo tape they recorded at Sierra Sound Labs in Berkeley attracted the attention of producer Roger Dollarhide (Randy California's Kapt. Kopter And The Fabulous Twirly Birds) who invited them to relocate to Los Angeles. In late 1969 and early 1970, several recording sessions took place at SunWest Studios in Hollywood that appear for the first time on the Rockadelic collection. In addition, guitarist Larry Otis contributed music to an original movie soundtrack in 1970, The Velvet Vampire, and a piece from this movie also figures on the Born Again Pagan collection. The album concludes with three demo tracks from 1971 by the 'C' line-up, recorded in San Francisco.

While the music produced by the various line-ups of the group varies enough in style as to defy categorisation, there are no weak moments on this album. Sullivan's snarling lead vocal technique will appeal to fans of both '60s and '70s music, and no one will find fault with Otis' remarkable command of the guitar (Dollarhide introduced Otis to Ike Turner as "the best rock guitar player in the world", and Turner apparently agreed - hiring Otis for the Ike and Tina Turner Revue in 1974).

3) Romanian pop/rock band from the town of Arad.

4) American death metal band from Arlington, Texas.

5) A power metal band featuring members and ex-members of Crystal Viper, Majesty and Mystic Prophecy.
The band has recently recorded its debut single 'Neverending Fire'. The single was produced by Bart Gabriel and recorded at the MP Studio with Mariusz Pietka.
Born Again's musical style is described as a mixture of '80s heavy metal such as Warlock and Dio and modern power metal such as Edguy and Hammerfall. 

The lineup is:
Marta Gabriel (Vocals and Keyboards)
Martin Albrecht (Bass Guitar)
Björn Daigger (Guitars and Backing Vocals)
Tom "Golem" Danczak (Drums)

The full length debut album is expected to be released in 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Born+Again">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.