Born Headless is a brutal death metal band from Australia. They fromed in Hobart, Tasmania 1999 by Jason Peppiatt (guitar and vocals) and Patrick Moane (drums). The band was made from the ashes of Hobart metal band Yorta. The band formers wanted to create a more harsher and agressive sounding to their music, this took six months of musical writing and playing to the members strengths. Later, they were joined by bass player Mark Sawford to finish the line up. Their music is low chugging guitars with twist and turns, some blasting agressive drums and gutteral vocals. 

After, writing and practising for a year they went into recording and self produced their first self-titled demo which had five unrelenting brutal death metal tracks, clocking up twenty-five furious minutes of running time. This was distributed by Life Fluid Productions. However, after the recording and the release of the demo, bassist Mark Sawford departed to travel the world.

In 2003, despite the adbandoned bassist, the band went into the studios to record their debut album Headless Henchmen, where Peppiatt switched to guitar and bass, and new vocalist Corwyn Kenny was recruited. So, the band went into Dead Pawn Studios, commencing production of the album which was then completed mid 2003. However, the release of the album was held back when problems arose with the completion of the artwork and the band was joined by bass player Dave Luck (who engineered the album).

Lately, the band went into another change in 2005, with Jason Peppiatt and Corwyn Kenny leaving the band. The replacements were Rohan Thompson on Guitar , Rowan M (bass) , Vocalist Ewen G and Patrick Moane on drums. This completed worked hard on new material, however, another blow came to the band's stability when Rowan M left the band who was raplaced quickly by Matthew "Chalky" Chalk. Then, Pat Moane left becuase of personnal problems and was replaced by the short-time Kai Summers, until Moane came back to take back the stool. 

After, these troubled years, the band have pulled back together with a full line up and our creating progress for a new full-length in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Born+Headless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.