BORN FROM PAIN was founded in the early summer of '97. BORN FROM PAIN grew up in a musical environment of mid-80's Bay Area and German thrash metal and NY hardcore, 90's Florida and Birmingham death metal, NYC crossover and US/European metalcore. Bands like Merauder, Stigmata, Earth Crisis, All Out War, Bolt Thrower, Obituary, Integrity, Testament, Slayer, early Agnostic Front and Crumbsuckers were of infinite influence on members as the fuse was lit that summer..and for many years to come!

In the near 10 years of their existence BORN FROM PAIN have been mostly on the road and working hard to get noticed. Getting noticed started to happen fast. After releasing their first mcd "Immortality" in 1999, the band quickly followed up with their first full-length cd Reclaiming The Crown in 2000. Numerous support and headline shows followed. 2002 saw the release of the band's second full-length Sands Of Time that received tremendous feedback everywhere and got the band to a new level. Again, extensive touring with the likes of Hatebreed, Madball and Resistence Tour, to name a few, followed. The year 2004 saw the band embark on overseas tours in the US and Japan. Also the attention from bigger labels was drawn and in the year 2005 the follow-up to Sands Of Time, In Love With The End was released on Metal Blade Records. 1,5 Years of non-stop touring alongside bands like e.g. Hatebreed, Napalm Death, Six Feet Under followed, just like appearances at festivals like Wacken Open Air, With Full Force Open Air, Waldrock Festival, Pressure Fest, Hell Fest and numerous other bigger and smaller festivals all over Europe, as well as touring South America.

Over the years the sound of BORN FROM PAIN has always kept it's trademarks and backbone intact; brutal groove, murderous fast riffing and a feeling for the most aggressive breakdowns. Never giving in to trends that came and went in heavy music over the years. BORN FROM PAIN has always felt that spewing lyrics that represent feelings of anger, frustration, melancholy and social criticism, works best over riffs that hit you like a steamroller at full speed. The band strongly signals a feeling of stand-up, honest, straight forward authenticity to the world in a stagnant metal and hardcore scene, which the band feels is ever so important in music nowadays.

BORN FROM PAIN are not, and never were, in this to win a prize for trendiest or coolest band, but to express feelings harbored by many in our scene, expressing the anger towards daily life, social unrest, emotional hardship and the murder of the world as we know it. Negativity, anger and frustration are feelings that no one can hold back in this day and age, but we can try and turn it around to make things better at least on a personal level.

With BORN FROM PAIN's newest effort War, the band has set out to deliver a devastating blow built on murderous grooving and fast paced riffs and heaviness, killer breakdowns and a pinch of melody, ever so subtle, as a massive foundation for a non-interpretable message of social criticism, emotional disarray and the importance of an iron will in the year 2006..and many to come.

In 2008 bassist Rob Fransen finally took over vocals and Born From Pain recorded their fifth album - 'Survival'. It was released on October 31. Immediately after the release they are going to join the Persistence Tour 2008, alongside Sick of it All, Heaven Shall Burn, Terror, and H2O.

The current band members are Rob Franssen on vocals, Dominik Stammen and Karl Fieldhouse on guitars, Andries Beckers on bass, and Roy Moonen on drums.

Check out their official websites www.bornfrompain.com and www.myspace.com/bornfrompain <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Born+from+Pain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.