Boss Tweed could refer to several groups.

* A blues band from Brooklyn
* A heavy metal band from Texas

1) Based in Brooklyn, Boss Tweed plays original songs that stem from the darker side of blues and roots music.  The trio is fronted by double threat Carolyn Sills on the Fender Jazz bass and lead vocals. "To say that Sills' singing is sultry is an immense understatement. Her vocals resonate with a throaty anguish, torch songs sung straight from the heart…" (Vintage Guitar Magazine)

Boss Tweed also features a dynamite hollowbody Gretsch guitar player, Gerard Egan, whose classic but innovative style conjures the larger than life sound of yesterday's guitar heroes. "Egan's licks are cool and classic, but his groove is soulful and deep rather than in-your-face flash... (VGM) 

Boss Tweed's new 7" vinyl was just reviewed in the Feb 2008 issue of Vintage Guitar Magazine. "The band's original "Buzz Like Houseflies" is a romp, pure and simple. This is rollicking rockabilly with plenty of reverb and twang. And yet Sills' soulful vocals injects a twist that makes it all new. The flipside is a cover of "Perhaps..." The ballad becomes a seance set to melody, conjuring up a misty past of dim juke joints and neon-lit roadhouses from the end of time. The effect is mesmerizing." 

The trio toured Europe in the Spring of 2007 to promote this new release, and due to their success over there, is returning for a more extensive tour in the spring of 2008. 

Check out www.bosstweedband.com for news, photos, reviews and where to buy music!

"Slickers out of Brooklyn, Boss Tweed makes thinking person's rockabilly-blues, and it's all very smart that they publish old-school on vinyl. But I still say music is more a visceral thing -- songs that make you drive too fast, thinking and feeling things you probably shouldn't, and that's why 'Buzz Like Houseflies' makes my top-ten."
– Vern Smith, The Motown Hoedown, CJAM 91.5 FM (Windsor, Canada / Detroit, MI)

2) Boss Tweed from Texas play 80's heavy metal. They released a demo in 1983 entitled Jacuzzi Murders and an EP in 84 titled Year Zero. In 2011, Stormbringer records released the Die You Bitch LP.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boss+Tweed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.