BOSS KELOID formed 2010 at the ‘Palace of Tits and Wine’. Based in Wigan, UK. 
Demo EP ‘Angular Beef Lesson’ released Summer 2010. 
Debut album ‘The Calming Influence of Teeth’ released Spring 2013 on Pipelord Records. 
Released official video for ‘Locking Stumps’ July 2013. 
Grand Final of ‘Battle For Bloodstock’ Manchester 2013 
UK tour Jan/ Feb 2014 includes supporting SOULFLY in Manchester Feb 26th.
Released official video for ‘Skipper's Pipes’ April 2014. 

METAL MOUTH - "The slumbering sludge colossus of Wigan." - 9 out of 10

MUSIK REVIEW - "Boss Keloid have truly found their own groove. And what a groove that is. Anyone who appreciates technically demanding music, relentless riff pressure and original artistic vision and likes to be clobbered forcefully musically, needs this" - 14 out of 15

ROCK SOUND “A ferocious sea of handsomely filthy riffs and other musical unpleasantry"

THE SLUDGELORD - "The album is expertly played and produced by all involved. It showcases another outstanding band from the UK Sludge Metal scene though Boss Keloid could be the craziest the UK has to offer."

METAL SUCKS - "Coalesce meets Clutch. A slightly southern bluesy tinged version of skronky post-hardcore, and it’s working splendidly!"

THE AQUARIAN - “Boss Keloid have mastered the riff on their debut full-length”

ROCK HARD - ". The focus is on continuous, massive riff pressure, a beautifully toothed interplay of two distinctive stylists on guitar and drums and even in the most intricate moments a brutal, all crushing groove" - 9.5 out of 10

FUZE - "This album is a must have for everyone who likes to hear something different and not only wants to be slapped against the wall by it, but kicked right through."

THE SLUDGELORD - "This album is very hard to classify. Groove, Sludge, Math or Progressive. The album contains 50 of the most fucked up and insane minutes you will likely to hear in 2013."

UBER ROCK - "Riffs that will gnaw their way into your soul"

THIS IS NOT A SCENE - "with a technical precision and mathy vibe which is equally complemented by the band's miraculous skill of remaining heavy as fuck at the same time." - 9 out of 10

THURSDAY ADDAMS - "Rooted in sludge, with a knack for writing heavy yet catchy tunes that manage to transcend metal sub-genre boundaries. The UK clearly has an underrated sludge metal scene, and with more attention cast their way, Boss Keloid could be the ones to lead."

WHEN PLANETS COLLIDE - "Ten brilliant tracks of monstrous racket."

THIS NOISE IS OURS - “Stuff all of your mainstream copycats and sound-a-likes, us Brits now have another band that can take on and vanquish the false!”

ECHOES AND DUST - "An interesting mix of styles, combining southern rock riffs, obtuse time signatures and clean bellowed vocals to a deeply satisfying affect.”

THE LINC - "A cyclone of obese grooves."

BOSS KELOID use Mesa Boogie amps, Gibson, Music Man, Tama, Paiste, Sabian. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boss+Keloid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.