Bound by Entrails was formed in 2004 by Brett alone in Iowa City, IA. The first demo was recorded in the spring of 2005, a three track that was never publicly released, but instead used as a tool to recruit other musicians to create a full band.

In the fall of 2005, Mortaeus and Nitoh Mahkwi of Black/Death Metal band, Envenom Ascension, joined Bound by Entrails and they began contributing to the music that would become the first demo album, Overture to the Fallen, which was publicly released in March of 2006.

In 2007, the full-length For Valhall's Sorrow was released. The album drew from the dystopian atmosphere of mid 90's black metal, blending a reverence for second wave black metal with a contemporary progressive edge. After the release of "For Valhall's Sorrow" in 2007, Brett relocated to Alaska and reformed the band.

The new line up consisted of Brett, Tyler Platt, Jeremy Garner, and Billy Harbour. 

During that time, "The Oath..And the Burden.." was recorded and finished in the summer of 2009. Jeremy Garner, the additional guitarist and vocalist then relocated to the U.K., and Chris Hansson joined shortly there after. After a brief stint with the band, Chris parted ways and was replaced by session guitarist Cory Llewellen, who quickly became a permanent member. 

In the summer of 2011, Brett moved to Madison, WI where he is currently making the final touches to the upcoming album which should be officially released before the end of the year. At this time the future of Bound by Entrails is uncertain, but the music will live on. 

The upcoming album is entitled "The Stars Bode You Farewell," and will be available for download in the coming months, with either a CD or LP release soon to follow. 

The name "Bound by Entrails" refers to the fate that all humanity is doomed to live. It is through our own actions that we will be like Loki, bound by the entrails of our own kind as retribution for our destruction to this world. There is no freedom. The only freedom is through mankind's demise.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bound+by+Entrails">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.