1) Boxed In is the alias for British singer, songwriter, and record producer Oli Bayston. The name is partly inspired by Francis Bacon’s infamous painting Head VI, once described as “the operation through which the entire body escapes through the mouth”, a phrase which also seemed to befit the act of singing.

After featuring in The Guardian’s “New band of the day” in October 2013, Boxed In released his first single “All Your Love Is Gone” through Moshi Moshi Records in November 2013.

His eponymous, electro-dance-pop debut album followed in January 2015, released by Nettwerk Records, to a swathe of positive reviews, including NME and drew comparisons with LCD Soundsystem and Hot Chip.
The album, and lead singles “Mystery”, “Run Quicker” and “False Alarm”, were enthusiastically supported across BBC Radio 1 (including Huw Stephens' It’s Album Time session), BBC Radio 6 Music (including a live session with Lauren Laverne), KCRW (the album reached the station’s top 10 albums of 2015) and Spotify.
This led to sold-out shows at London’s XOYO and Oslo (Hackney) venues. After seeing them perform at SXSW in March 2015, KCRW music director Jason Bentley invited the band to Los Angeles to perform alongside TV On The Radio at the station’s Sound In Focus festival.

On 22 April 2016, producer Dan Carey’s Speedy Wunderground label (which invites a band to write and record a track in 24 hours at Carey’s South London studio) released its 16th single “Running Out” by Boxed In featuring Formation, a British breakthrough dance-pop act.

On 15 June 2016, Stereogum and BBC Radio 6 Music’s Lauren Laverne premiered Boxed In’s new single “Jist” from forthcoming album “Melt”. The track features on Laverne’s Just Added playlist. “Melt” was released via Nettwerk Records on 23 September 2016.

While Oli Bayston writes and produces the majority of Boxed In’s music, the following band members form the live band and play on Boxed In’s recordings:
Oli Bayston – vocals, keyboards, guitars, programming
Jack Benfield – synths, guitars
Mark Nicholls – bass
Liam Hutton – drums

2) Crust/Hardcore band from Leeds, singer left and they became War All The Time. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boxed+In">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.