Boy Kill Boy were a British indie-rock band who split up in October 2008 due to disappointments with their former record label Vertigo Records.
Band members Pete Carr (Keyboards), Kev Chase (Bass + Backing Vocals), Shaz (Drums) and Chris Peck (Vocals + Guitar) were hailing from Essex / East London and released the singles Suzie and Civil Sin in 2005.

The band was signed to Vertigo Records and got their first major release with Back Again on February 13th 2006. They've supported Hard-Fi and headlined the NME New Bands Tour in the same year, as well as 3 UK headline tours of their own in the same year American tours with The Charlatans and Echo and The Bunnymen, and various dates with bands such as The Kooks, Dirty Pretty Things and Razorlight in Europe. 

Originally, they were called Future of Junior but changed their name to Boy Kill Boy and lost original bassist Jim Lewis who went on to play with Cherryfalls, while they gained bassist Kev Chase. The band name came from the lead singer mishearing the name of a band called "Boy Called Roy".

Their first album, released May 2006, is called Civilian and contained the four singles Back Again, Suzie, Civil Sin and Shoot Me Down.

In May 2005 they released their debut single "Suzie" for record label Fierce Panda. In the summer the band opened the Radio 1 stage on Sunday/Friday of the 2005 Reading and Leeds Festivals. The second single followed later in the year now being signed to Fallout. "Civil Sin" was featured in Zane Lowe's "Hottest Track In The World Today". In 2006 the Vertigo single "Back Again" (released on 13 February) reached #26 in the UK Singles Chart and the re-release of "Suzie" on 16 May reached #17. The debut album "Civilian" was released on 22 May 2006 and entered the UK Album Chart at #16.

One of their major breaks came in May 2005 when the band stepped in to replace Nine Black Alps on the NME New Music Tour 2005 after the band's singer caught the mumps. Boy Kill Boy had only been billed to play one support slot on the whole tour but ended up playing numerous extra slots supporting Maxïmo Park and The Rakes. They returned the following year as headliners for NME's New Bands Tour 2006, supported by The Automatic, ¡Forward, Russia!, and The Long Blondes. They toured in the US supporting The Charlatans and played an extensive UK Headline tour in October. On 7 November 2006, they supported Feeder for one of their dates in aid of War Child at the Camden Roundhouse. This was also in conjunction with the "Shoot Me Down" single, released for the charity. 

The Fierce Panda release of "Suzie" appeared on the soundtrack of the street football video game FIFA Street 2, released in winter 2006 by Electronic Arts. "Civil Sin" appeared on the soundtrack to the FIFA 07 football video game. Also, their single "Back Again" also appears in the Test Drive Unlimited videogame. 
(glam-rock-lover.livejournal.com)

The band released The Stars and the Sea in March of 2008 through Mercury Records, but the label decided not to release the record in America, where the band had a substantial following. Because of this and other problems with their label, the band decided to call it a day in October 2008.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Boy+Kill+Boy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.