Took from Brabazon myspace:
BIO

Back in the days when there was nothing to do but hang around street corners or the local skate park, two friends Stuart Harris (Stoo) and Mike Griffiths got together to form their first band 'DRUID' in 2004, bringing in a bass player and rhythm guitarist. Things didn't quite work the way they wanted with musical differences at the forefront of the breakup, the two friends stayed together jamming away in Mike's parents garage, so with Mike on drums, Stoo vocals and guitar they needed a bass guitarist, enter Sam Jones who's musical tastes differed from Mike and Stoo's, more influenced by punk rather than Heavy Metal his enthusiasm and energy for the tasks ahead soon came to the fore. March 2005 sees the birth of 'BRABAZON' heavily influenced by Metallica, Testament, Pantera, The Ramones and The Misfits, they practice for 3 months solid and they felt the time was right for the local music scene to stand, watch and listen. Late June 2005 Chepstow 'Rock in the Dell' battle of the bands 'Brabazons' first ever gig. Early that evening people were asking who is this band 'Brabazon' by the end of the night they knew, they had witnessed something special taking first prize and the honour of opening The Rock in The Dell Festival in front of an estimated 3000 audience. Since then they have gone from strength to strength building up a large fan base in South Wales and West England playing Cardiff, Swansea and Bristol as well as sticking with their roots in Newport, Caldicot and Chepstow. In July 2006 they were voted Best Unsigned Band in Wales in a competition run by Virtual Festivals, Bandwagon and Yamaha. They went on to represent Wales in the final at the Carling Academy London, although they didn't win, they got an official commendation from Yamaha and Virtual Festivals saying that 'BRABAZON' were a live act not be missed and good enough to play the Download Festival in the near future, in October 2007 it was confirmed that they would play the aftershow party at ‘Hard Rock Hell’ Minehead with such distinguished bands as ‘Twisted Sister’,’Saxon’ and ‘UFO’. 2008 promises to be another year of hard work and determination by the band, in May 2008 they embark on a tour of England and Wales.
Unfortunately after ‘Hard Rock Hell’ Mike decided he wanted to leave. They now welcome on board Jack Rake former drummer of ‘ASUNDA’. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brabazon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.