1.) Brain Damage is a dub duo bass-machine. It was created in 1999 by two founder-members of the Bangarang dub collective from Saint-Etienne (France) and the dub band A.S.S.E (Another Sound System Experience).
The duo plays and belongs to an electro dub style of its own. In the same time dark and emotional. A style defines like emo-dub-ambient.

After a first maxi CD -Bipolar Disorder- and a compilation -Combat dub- produced by its own label (Bangarang), Brain Damage realized 2 albums with the dub label from Paris, Hammerbass. It results from the first one another compilation under the name Combat dub vol.2, remixed versions of the tracks by the main activists of the international dub scene such as Zion Train, Alpha & Omega, Vibronics, The Disciples...

In 2006, the duo signed at the label Jarring Effects and produced a third album : Spoken Dub Manifesto. Spoken Dub Manifesto is an ambitious piece of work, recorded with none the less than eleven vocalists, gathered here around a spoken word concept, confirming the emotional and special way that Brain Damage has to produce dub, hereafter unique.
More than ever the duo affirms its identity trough its choices, sometimes drastic, of concepts, collaborations, mixes or masterings.

After more than 300 concerts in Europe, it is interesting to notice that everything seems to oppose the ambient and "brainy" aspect of the studio work and the live performances, where sensations become physical again, sub basses tangible and the fight against the straightness of the machines merciless.

Line-up
Raphael Talis - Bass
Martin Nathan - Sound Engineering

discography

maxi
Bipolar Disorder (Bangarang) - 1999

albums
Always greener [on the other side] (Bangarang/Hammerbass) - 2002
Ashes to ashes / Dub to dub (Bangarang/Hammerbass/Sounds Around) - 2004
Spoken dub manifesto vol.1 (Bangarang/Jarring Effects) - 2006

compilations
Combat dub (Bangarang/Hammerbass)
Combat dub II (Bangarang/Hammerbass)
Digital park compilation
A & O Meets Bangarang
maxi vinyl de remixes de Lab°
Roots of dub funk vol. 3
Dub Solidarity (dubhead)
Crooklyn dub outernational/Certified dope vol. 4
Alpha & Omega : " Spirit of the ancients "
Dub excursion (Sound Around)
Dub in France
Dub Addicts
French dub Touch (dub-a-delik)
Label Bangarang website
http://bangarang.online.fr

2.) Created in 1977 by Haylock M.S. Ellis (guitar) and Philippe Poiret (guitar, keyboards, vocals). The French science fiction writer Roland C. Wagner is added as a singer in 1983. They play a mix of punk, new wave and garage rock. They split in late 1984. 1984 (Live au Cithéa) is the only recording surviving from this period, recorded on September 15th 1984.

Ellis, Poiret and Wagner get together again in 1988 with a new rhythm section, playing now psychedelic garage in the Pebbles mood. Poiret left in the early 90's, Ellis and Wagner decide to stop giving shows and focus on recording. A single is issued in 1996, presenting Brain Damage on one side and on the other X-men, another side project of Ellis. Then a self-titled CD is issued in 1999 as a private pressing. Both are now very rare.

In 2006, Brain Damage publish their second album under one of the Creative Commons licenses on the free music platform Jamendo. It's a collection of recordings spawning more than 15 years, mostly punk and/or psychedelic with science fiction inspired lyrics — among them « Quand le paysage se déchire » (“When the landscape torns”) a song about Philip K. Dick and « Un été de serre » inspired by Norman Spinrad's novel Greenhouse Summer, which Wagner translated in French. 

During the year 2007 the band put on line most of the material recorded in 30 years. They're working on their next album and the soundtrack of R.C. Wagner's next novel, both to be issued in 2008.

http://laciterne.org/Brain+Damage

3.) Brain Damage is Vik Shagal, the guy who stand behind this excellent project. he was born in Ukraine in 1987 and in 8 years old moved to Israel and grow up there. From a tender age Vik was a music junky, breathing and embracing all forms of music and sounds. In the school days he discover the Psytrance music at the first time and from this moment everything begun. After short period that he heard and collected music he started to produce his own stuff,one year after,when he was 14 years old he took it one step onward and build his first studio at home, and After few tracks the name "Brain Damage" was born and the things started to be more clear.
After 5 years of work and many releases on various labels,his first and long awaited album called "waiting for my angel" came out. in this album you can find beats of full on,progressive and house in hight and low BPM but yet resulting with a strong powerful lift for the dance floor, also collaboration with Spade ("Beat Box") that was a mega hit before it was released . In addition there was a collaboration with Feedback ("Example Of The 90's) that was played in any possible dance floor in the world today after he played in Brazil ,Mexico ,Russia ,Israel just to name a few , he is working on new projects and remixes that will come later in 2008

http://www.myspace.com/vikbd

4) Russian female-fronted alternative rock band been actively supported by Gennady Bachinsky, famous showman and general producer of radio Maximum, before his sudden decease.

5) Punk band from San Francisco, released 3 tapes and 7" between 1981 and 1985.

6) Short-lived Swedish noisegrind project featuring Rikard from Regurgitate and Dudde. Released splits with Gut and Deche-Charge. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brain+Damage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.