There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Braindead - An old school swedish death metal band and a part of music history. Friends with At The Gates, In Flames, Dark Tranquillity, Tiamat, The Haunted, Ceremonial Oath, HammerFall, Desecrator, Grotesque and Liars In Wait amongst others. Bands later to be known as the creators of the Gothenburg sound.

This is the story of an unknown band part of a scene that today is known around the world. This is the story of BRAINDEAD ...

2) Braindead is a deathgrind band from Germany. From 1992 to 1996, they've released 2 demos, then they split-up. They were reformed in 2008, and now they have a new EP out, called "The Werewolf Rises".

3)Braindead is a hardcore / punk band from philly/south jersey area with a demo/7inch out and now a split out with Blackbirds in 2007. They also just released a album called No Consequences. http://www.myspace.com/braindeadhxc 

4)Braindead (correctly spelled Brain Dead) are a hardcore punk/ powerviolence band from Leicestershire,UK influenced by bands like Infest and Man Is The Bastard. They have released a split with Rot In Hell, a demo, and a few EP's

5) Braindead were a Portuguese Thrash-Metal band, they released two albums, Blend in 1993 and Room Landscapes in 1994.

6) Braindead was also a hardcore punk band from Charlottetown, PEI. They released a demo in 2007. 

7) Braindead the first and unique the horror-rock band from Russia, following in the creativity to traditions legendary THE MISFITS and SAMHAIN. Group BRAINDEAD has been formed in 2004 in Moscow, Russia.  

8) BrainDead is also a Death Metal band from New York, they recently released their album "Shut Up & Kill Yourself".

9) Brazilian fastcore band.

10) Braindead, a thrash metal band from Switzerland. They have three full lengths.

11) Braindead, a Polish thrash/death metal band. One demo out.

12) Braindead, a Turkish progressive thrash metal band. They have just one demo tape ("Darkness wins all" - 1993).

13) Braindead, a Greek thrash metal band. One demo and one EP.

14) Braindead, a Norwegian death metal band. Changed their name to Balvaz after one demo.

15) BrainDead is a german ska-core band from Hamburg:
"Hamburg, located in the North of Germany, is a city of stark contrasts, where a high population of Millionaires and rich enterprises are contrasted by a long history of resistance and rebellious life forms. It is in the very heated atmosphere of early 2001 that three suburban kids started to create a sound that mirrors these intensifying conflicts. Braindead set out to play a mix of Punk, Hardcore, Ska and Dub, musically influenced by several traditions. Being true to the DIY fashion of political Punk, they do most of the work like booking, printing shirts or creating artwork for flyers and records themselves or with help from close friends, and have played every thinkable venue from squatted house basements, action camps, boats, youth centers, festivals, and so on.
Braindeads politics cover topics such as Ecology, Anti-Sexism, Anti-Fascism, Veg(etari)anism, and express an overall Anti-Capitalist and libertarian perspective. Consequently, the band is always happy to play benefit gigs for political causes they support.
Over the years, Braindead managed to release one Split CD (with Civil War, 2006), two Albums (Weapons Of The Weak, 2010 and Libertalia, 2013) as well as a 7″ Single (2012). These were accompanied by various tours that brought Braindead to 17 European countries so far.
2016 Sees the release of a new EP in collaboration with UK Dub Soundsystem Conscious Youth and features two brandnew tunes, followed by their dub versions."

16) Braindead is a czech thrash-crossover band from Jičín, Czech Republic. They have one EP - Against The Madness (2014) a and one Album - Mindtamer (2015). -> http://www.bandzone.cz/braindead <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Braindead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.