Brainchoke was formed in January 2000. Former members of Suffering(UK) and Inimenter joined forces with other musicians with an equally extreme taste in music to form what was described as "England's new force in cool grind/death metal".

The line up of Simon (drums), Mark (vocals), Kieran, Paul (guitars), and Dave (bass) spent the first eight months of the bands existence writing material which evolved into the debut album, "Migraine Music".

"Migraine" Music was released through the band's own imprint, MBTC Productions, in November 2000 to a very warm reception from the underground music scene. Excellent reviews followed and gigs were lined up to support the release.

 Positive feedback from those gigs prompted the release of "Mental Clarity", a six track EP used by the band to show off the progressive writing style, increased depth and song structure and also the fact that they were speeding up - the EP included re-recorded versions of two songs from the "Migraine Music" sessions played faster than ever before!

 Brainchoke were voted number ten in the "Best unsigned band" category of Terrorizer magazine's 2001 readers' poll. To capitalise on this success, they appeared on the cover-mount CD of the March 2001 issue. Two new tracks were recorded for the occasion and one from the EP was re-mastered to combine into a "medley" lasting around four minutes. A mention in Kerrang! magazine and appearances on various compilation CD's has helped to increase the band's profile.

 In the autumn of 2003, "Microchipped and Mindcontrolled" was released as a split CD with U.S. band Fetus Eaters through the U.K. label, Grindethic Records. The whole batch of CD's pressed sold out completely within eight months.

 Also in 2003, Brainchoke recorded a five-track "demo", which was self-released as a stop gap until the next album. After an unexpectedly long hiatus, 2005 saw both Simon and Kieran leave the band to concentrate their efforts on other things. Within a week, the band recruited Mike, a long time friend, on drums and February 2006 saw Dan joining as a live guitarist.

The bands' new album, INTROSPECTIVE, was released on July 7th 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brainchoke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.