BRAINCASKET

Since 2007, Braincasket is an energetic brutal deathmetalband from the Netherlands. July 2011, Braincasket released a new 3-track demo called 'Methods Of Persuasion'. It contains three brutal tracks, which are entitled 'Go With No Face', 'Sick Sense Of Acid' and 'Methods Of Persuasion'. Fast blastbeats are varied with slow pumping headbang riffs, combined with aggressive dual growls.The first demo with Martin hitting drums, Johan playing bass and Peter and Sito together on grunts! Check it out!

On stage, Braincasket did some great live shows together with bands as Origin (US), Defeated Sanity (DE), Gorezone (DE), Dr. Doom (NL) and The Monolith DeathCult (NL). This year July, Braincasket will open at the Stonehenge Open Air festival, a brutal Dutch festival with bands as Misery Index, Decapitated, Panzerchrist, Sutajumala, Severe Torture, Facebreaker, Fumes Of Decay and more.

On the internet, the Braincasket fanbase is growing fast. Since April 2010, on ReverbNation (http://www.reverbnation.com/braincasket) more than 12000 fans joined Braincasket.

So check out our songs, video's, photo's and merchandise, and don't hesitate to book us! ON STAGE, WE WILL SURELY BLOW YOUR ASS AWAY.


MORE ABOUT BRAINCASKET

Braincasket is formerly known as Temple Of Eternity (1998-2005). Since 2006, the name Braincasket was chosen because the name Temple Of Eternity sounds too much Gothic while the music sounds more brutal.In the early days, Influences were for example Paradise Lost, Slayer, Obituary and Morbid Angel.In 2006 the CD/DVD Satisfaction Of Putrefaction was released. It contains 6 deathmetal tracks and a DVD with a music video (spit on your grave), studio recording impression, live impression and photos. At the end of 2006, Braincasket decided to split up with Johan (the drummer) and Mike (bassplayer). For about nine months Braincasket has been playing with Roelof van den Bos (drummer STOMA grindcore) and Gerben Suurmeijer (bassplayer Temple Of Eternity). Summer 2007, Martin Kloosterman aka Lord Morba(drums) and Johan Flapper(bass) join Braincasket. Martin is known for his furious drumming in Morblast, Thy Withering Orchard and Johan for his crushing bass playing in Cephalic.With this line-up, the sound of Braincasket again changed dramaticly. New material with brutal blastbeats is written. Summer 2010, Peter Weijer (Cephalic) joined Braincasket for the extra vocals. Nowadays, influences are bands like Unmerciful, Origin, Beheaded, Dying Fetus, Hour of Penance, Deeds of Flesh, Defeated Sanity, Gorezone, Suffocation, Brain Drill, Gorgasm, Disavowed, Cryptopsy, Visceral Bleeding, Immolation, Severe Torture, etc.In July 2011, Braincasket released a new 3-track demo called Methods Of Persuasion. The first demo with Martin hitting drums, Johan playing bass and Peter and Sito on grunts! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Braincasket">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.