There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) CZECH-BRETON group Bran, playing mainly traditional Breton music and sailors songs. 
2) HUNGARIAN group Bran playing mostly Irish, Breton and other Celtic music. 
{note that the Welsh group is called Brân}
3) GERMAN electronic producer also known as Besomorph

1) CZECH-BRETON group Bran
The style of Bran is all based on a timeless & more ancient kind of music, from Bretagne. Founded in Prague during the last century ( in 1999 ! ), Bran brings Breton, Slovak and Czech musicians together, around compositions, sailor songs and traditional tunes mainly from Brittany.
The members of Bran are: , 
Sara Navarro (vocals, percussions), 
Tomas Görtler (accordion), 
Vojta Jindra (guitar, mandolin, bouzouki)
Petr Tichý  (double bass)
Robert Fischmann (flute)
Radim Chrobok (percussion)
Michal Wróblewski (sopransax, altsax)
In 2010, Bran released their CD called "En conert" - live concert CD from Moravian tour
http://www.branband.cz
Myspace: Bran on Myspace
Discography
Bran 
Chemins de sel 
Coast of Bohemia 
An delienn 
En concert 

2) HUNGARIAN group Bran, playing Irish and other Celtic music, formed in 1993
KOVÁCS Gáborján
flute, whistles, vocal, bodhrán, concertina, storytelling
The leader of the band, Gáborján Kovács - lecturer of Celtic Mythology and Cultural History of Medieval Ireland at the University ELTE of Budapest - is in charge of Music and Culture - had been a student at the University College of Cork in 1992-1993 studying ethnomusicology, Celtic mythology, cultural history of medieval Ireland and Irish language. Among his professors were Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin, Pádraig Ó Riain, Máire Herbert and Mel Mercier. Arriving back to Hungary his main goal was to popularise the historical traditions of Irish music (repertoire of the old harp playing tradition, singing traditions of Gregorian origins, compositions of O'Carolan and songs in Irish) besides the traditional dance-music. His lectures on Irish history and culture make the concerts of Bran complete.
KIS Sándor
bodhrán, percussions, whistle
Sanyi Kis, the bodhrán player joined one of Gábor's guided tour to Ireland in 1996 where he bought his first bodhrán. First his interest was risen by Pogues that he heard in 1993 on a music channel. As a result, he went to Scottish and Irish ceilis here in Budapest (at that time there were only 2 or 3 bands playing this type of music). He also joined sessions where he picked up the bodhran with the help of Kevin Madden and Peter O'Brian from Manchester who were here in Budapest at that time for a few month. Sanyi had been playing with this and that band, here and there in Hungary till finally in 1999 he joined Bran and became a full member.
CSÁSZÁR Róbert
guitar
Robert Csaszar, the guitarist got to know the band while they were still mainly based in Veszprem in 1996. Although he had only played classical music before, he became interested and as the guitarist of the band was about to leave he decided to take up his place. He's been playing with Bran ever since.
SZABÓ Tánya
dance teaching
Tánya Szabó also joined Gábor's guided tour to Ireland in 1996 and then she went back and stayed there for a whole year in 1998. (Since then she's also been back several times.) She had an interest in Irish set dancing so she went to pubs, workshops, festivals as well as became friendly with many great dancers and had a brilliant time there!
Since she has returned back home in 1999 she's been with Bran running the ceilis. After a while she also took up the tin whistle and every now and then she joins the band and plays one or two tunes along with them during gigs and ceilis.
http://www.bran.hu
http://www.myspace.com/branhungary

{note that the Welsh group is called Brân} <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bran">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.