Brandon Richard Flowers (born June 21, 1981 in Henderson, Nevada, United States) is the vocalist and keyboardist in the American indie rock band The Killers. His older brother Shane, got him into music like The Smiths and Morrissey, The Beatles, The Cure and Queen. Brandon has played with U2, New Order, Pet Shop Boys, Bruce Springsteen and other bands of which he is a fan. 

While listening to the radio in his car after his very first college class, Flowers heard the song "Changes" by David Bowie. He fell in love with the piece and realized immediately that he wanted to be part of the music industry. 

His career in music began when he became a member of Las Vegas band Blush Response (this was where he discovered he could sing), but he was fired after refusing to move to Los Angeles, California, with the rest of the band. After leaving Blush Response, Flowers realised that he still wanted a career in music and came across an ad for guitarist David Keuning. After many short-term bassist and drummers, the pair met Ronnie Vanucci (drums) and Mark Stoermer (bass) and the band has been together since. In 2004 the group released Hot Fuss (after having toured with Morrissey in multiple sold out shows), 2006 - Sam's Town, 2007 - Sawdust, 2008 - Day & Age

In April 2010, Flowers announced his first solo album entitled Flamingo, which was produced by a team of legendary producers:  Daniel Lanois (U2, Bob Dylan, Peter Gabriel, Robbie Robertson, Neil Young),  Brendan O'Brien  (Pearl Jam, Soundgarden, Train), and Stuart Price  (Keane, Killers, Madonna, New Order, Scissor Sisters, Seal).  A special Bonus Track edition has also been released featuring four additional songs, "The Clock Was Tickin", "Jacksonville", "I Came Here To Get Over You", and "Right Behind You"

After some of the band members wanted "to take a break from touring and the rat race," Flowers decided to keep it going and record a second solo album. The Desired Effect was released on May 15, 2015. The album debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart, making it Flowers' second consecutive solo number one album.

The Desired Effect is Flowers' highest yet ranked album on Metacritic and honored as the Album of the Year (2015) by The Sun and The San Francisco Examiner. Reviews positively described the album as Flowers' finest work since Hot Fuss. The album was preceded by positively reviewed singles "Can't Deny My Love", "Still Want You", "Lonely Town", and "I Can Change". Multiple tracks from the album were listed on Best Songs of 2015 So Far lists by publications including SPIN, NPR, and Mashable. Halfway through 2015, USA Today listed the album as one of the top five best albums of 2015 so far.

The Desired Effect Tour included performances in Europe and North America; it ran through October 1, 2015.

Official solo site: http://www.brandonflowersmusic.com
Official twitter: http://twitter.com/brandonflowers
Official band site: http://www.thekillersmusic.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brandon+Flowers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.