For brother's Renato and Eduardo Pimentel the idea of knocking down the stigma that instrumental music is elitist, turning its back to everyone but musicians and eccentric music lovers, started to become a reality in January, 1993. At the historical city Laguna, in Santa Catarina, they recorded a demo tape with 5 tracks. At that time, Brasil Papaya was still a dream in the guitarists heads.

In February, 1994, the band gives it's first performance with Bruno Ghizoni (drums) and Fernando Braga (bass). Right from the beginning, Brasil Papaya (now in Florianopolis) began breaking down those barriers. For the first time in Santa Catarina, an instrumental band takes the stage in a cover bands' festival, reaching second place among 25 competitors.

The fame of these four musicians, that dared to mix the orthodox and the heavy metal with more popular rhythms such as "chorinho", always sounded rock'n'roll without seeming ridiculous or arrogant, came out from the "catarinense" underground and caught the attention of other musicians and fans alike.

Fernando left the band, creating an opening for Adriano "Baga" Rotini. It was about time for the next defining step and in July, 1996, the band spent 40 days in Sao Paulo, at Creative Sound studio realizing the dream of making their first album. Following the traditions of their rock idols, the musicians use only the band´s name for their work. In November, 1996, without having released their album, Brasil Papaya shoots its first video clip for "The Heart Ends… The Dream Begins".

Another barrier goes down in April, 1997, when Brasil Papaya shot its second video for "Matando a Inocencia". The video was the first in the State to be shot on16mm and 35mm film. In the same year, the quality of the album is echoed in the National Press.. In 1999, the band was invited to record a track for a collection sponsored by the Artistic and Cultural Department of the Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC). Brasil Papaya records "Kichute". Including Alex Paulista on the drums. It was the first time the band recorded a track with the current line up. Besides performing the members begin to pursue other creative outlets. Renato starts The Magic Place, a studio where he begins to produce different artists.

Brasil Papaya completed its first decade in 2003. When the band started to rehearse a new repertoire the compositions came quickly and smoothly now with a wider participation from the four members. The idea was to give strength to the image of a band with musicians, getting away from the idea of a project to give status only to the two guitar players. Eight tracks came alive and they all follow the tradition of putting side by side rock, blues, "choro" and heavy metal. Flamenco, jazz and funk are also added in discrete doses, everything is well seasoned with feeling and simplicity. Even Astor Piazolla's tango gets its share, in an unusual version, with GAITA-PONTO, drums with double bass drums and distorted guitars all of it living harmoniously and peacefully. These are the characteristics of the soul of rock'n'roll, the beginning and the inspiration for Brasil Papaya.

From: Alessandro Bonassoli, A Noticia Newspaper / Valhalla Metal Magazine <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brasil+Papaya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.