There are three bands/artsts with the name Brave:

1) Brave, DJ/Producer

2) A Progressive Rock/Metal band

3) A Power Metal band from Brazil

1) Brave (real name: Hasan Dafer), also known as ʙʀᴀᴠᴇ, is a pop/dance DJ and producer. Brave released his first long-play album titled 'Morphine' in 2012, followed by his recent efforts Parvati and Opposition. Morphine sets a new dance pop trend in contemporary pop music, with songs such as Carino, Mass Piece and I Am Bad. Parvati was a follow-up, sophomore album which offered a diverse ambiental music, inspired by Gods of different cultures. One of the singles taken from Parvati was song titled 'Durga', and album also features songs such as Shitala Devi and Vishnu. Opposition was Brave's third long-play album, which sets a new R&B trend for his music. With featured vocals by Britney Spears, Madonna and collaborations with Everborn, this album was a step towards his pop roots. In 2013, Brave is set to release his fourth album titled 'Disco X', with first single 'Come Get Bitch' coming out soon.

2) Brave is a progressive rock/metal band with female vocals and violins. The members are Michelle Schrotz (vocals, keys), Scott Loose (guitars), Trevor Schrotz (drums), Ben Kelly (bass), Suvo Sur (violin, keys) and Matt Kozar (guitars).

The roots of Brave began in 1997 when brother and sister duo Scott and Michelle Loose began writing diverse, acoustic-based, dark progressive music with their childhood friend and drummer, Trevor Schrotz. The original band was called Arise From Thorns (AFT), and the trio wrote and recorded 2 CDs with world-wide distribution and played numerous shows around their hometown of Dale City, VA, a suburb of Washington, DC. After several lineup changes, the music of AFT morphed into a much heavier sound while retaining the atmospheric and diverse qualities of AFT. With this evolution in style came a change in name, and in 2000, Brave was born.

Brave continued to write music and began playing shows that expanded into mini-tours throughout the United States. They recorded their debut full-length album Searching for the Sun, which was released in 2002 through Dark Symphonies records. The album received international praise from underground and mainstream music publications and fans. Shortly after this release, Brave won 2nd place in a Washington, DC “Battle of the Bands” that spanned over 6 months and included over 250 competing bands. Brave used the winnings from this competition to record a follow-up EP entitled Passages in 2004.

After the success of their initial albums and growing fan base, Brave began headlining many local shows and opened for touring national bands including Fates Warning, Opeth, Savatage, Devin Townsend, Asia, Lacuna Coil, Moonspell, Katatonia, and many others.

The next 4 years (2004-2008) were spent creating the foundations for what would become Monuments. After years of writing and 9 months of recording, the new album was independently released on May 1, 2008. This album is their pinnacle work, with a refined depth and musical texture that previous recordings merely foreshadowed. Monuments contain 12 new songs and is Brave’s most accurate musical expression to date. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.