Internationally-Acclaimed Recording Artist, Bray, Releases Third Full-Length Studio CD, @mphibian 

November 2, 2009 - San Francisco, CA - Called “An artist to watch out for,” by the San Jose Mercury News, “Best Live Band” by the San Francisco Herald, and a “musical persona (that) screams STAR,” by the San Francisco Chronicle, Bay Area singer/songwriter/multi-instrumentalist, Bray, proudly announces the release of his third studio CD, @mphibian.  

Bray’s ten-track @mphibian explodes from your sound system with driving grooves, irresistible magnetism, pure primal energy, and breath-taking ballads.  Bray’s jagged rhythmic riffs, throbbing bass lines, and silky hook-laden melodies, as exemplified in the crashing-out-of-the-gate disc opener, “Clone Me”, the scintillatingly sexy “Tie Me Up,” and the anthemic “Only The Brave,” combine for a “straightforward hard-rock style,” with “confidence and attitude,” “that works,” states Nate Seltenrich of the East Bay Express.  

Bray’s gripping ballads, the soul-scorching “I Was Wrong,” and deeply passionate and forlorn “Long Gone,” resonate on the heartstrings of every listener who has ever loved and lost and who hopes to find solace for a broken heart that remains in love.  Bray’s ability to reach into each and every listener to convey the feelings of anguish associated with heartbreak reveals a songwriting and performance maturity on the same level of Freddie Mercury and Elton John.  

Bray’s music floods your soul with a gritty, seductive cutting-edge rock sound and a disarming pop sensibility to such a point, Zero Magazine proclaims, “Bray is undefeated in the originality category.”  Bray’s lusty, sweat-soaked, shout-along live performances are described as “Mike Patton and Elvis Costello meeting for a Molotov with the sharp, crunchy riffs of The Killers, and theatrical shades of Bowie,” states Brooke Aldridge of Pulse.  Aaron Axelson, music director of San Francisco’s premier FM New Rock radio station, LIVE 105, states, “I wouldn’t be surprised at all if he lands a major recording contract.” 

With upcoming performances throughout California, Bray is not an artist to miss.  “Bray and his band blow the doors off the joint!” raves someone who knows a thing or two about live performers: the Grammy Award-winning Matt Fink, aka Dr. Fink, former keyboardist and co-writer with Prince and the Revolution. 

Tracks from Bray’s previously released studio CDs, “Independent Film’ and ‘Pins and Needles,’ have enjoyed heavy rotation on over 150 CMJ stations nationwide, charting as high as #3.  Bray has also toured Europe three times in two years, performing in ten countries to crowds in excess of 7,000.  His tunes have appeared in national television shows on NBC, as well as in MTV Road Rules, VH1 Old Skool and Bad Girls Club.  He’s performed to over 500,000 at SF Pride, and Bray has shared stages with Slash, Scott Weiland, Joe Satriani, and members of the Doors and The Sex Pistols.   

For more information about Bray and tour dates, go to: www.braymusic.com and http://www.myspace.com/bray - @mphibian is available at www.braymusic.com, iTunes, Amazon.com, CD Baby, and leading music stores and chains near you.  

To receive a review copy of @mphibian or to request an interview with Bray, please contact Christopher Buttner at PRThatRocks.com, at 415-233-7350 or email: chris@prthatrocks.com.   

For Radio enquiries please contact Brian Gerhard at Rocket Shop Promotions at telephone: 303-258-6806 or via email at brian@rocketshoppromotions.com. 

For US distribution enquiries, please contact Steffen Franz or Ben Lang at Independent Distribution Collective, telephone: 415-292-7007 or via e-mail at sales@independentdistro.com 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bray">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.