Breakdown begins in 2006 when Johnny “V” calls his old friend Xav to create a metal-rock band. After that, they contacted Christian Glavic to play the drums, Mauricio Aburto to play the bass and Eddie Montana in the main vocals ¬–former Xav’s Chilean friend, who was settled in Sweden.

That’s how in June, 2006, Johnny, Xav and Eddie begin to compose their own music. At the same time, Mauricio leaves the band for academic reasons.

Thereafter, Christian invites Dieter Hidecker as the new bass placer, and in December Eddie must leave the band to travel to Sweden with the purpose of contacting people to promote the band in Europe.

Meanwhile, in Chile the band doesn’t stop. They invite Carlos Vergara, a Chilean musician, to be Breakdown’s lead singer. 

During 2007, with the new line-up, Breakdown carries out concerts in the bests Chilean rock stages and it records its first single “Lost Highway” in HVO records. At the same time the band records a video clip in “La Batuta”, Santiago.

Unfortunately, in December 2007 Carlos, Dieter and Chris decide to leave the band for private reasons.

That’s how Johnny, Eddie and Xav begin a new time; rearrange the band along with new excellent members of the scene:

-Blast, former drummer of the Chilean death metal band Dethroner
-Ziller, former guitar player of the Chilean heavy metal band Ethernia
-KXX, former bass player of the Chilean death metal band Sorcerer

During 2008 Breakdown begins to work on their first EP, but in January 2008 Xav has leave the band for personal projects. 

That way the only 2 original members left continue working and quickly in 2008 they edit the first EP called “My Last Fix” which includes 3 new songs with a new sound totally influenced by European metal rock.

Breakdown begins to show the new material playing live in the most prestigious Chilean stages. That gives them the opportunity to open the show of their band’s close friend Kiko loureiro from Angra.

During the same year Johnny V makes the decision of working with a musical producer and professionalizes the sound to record the first HD LP. In that moment the prestigious Chilean producer Pablo Stipicic, Blackout’s guitar player, MPD and North American IBANEZ brand’s endorser, is assigned the beginning of the Breakdown’s new sound, taking the best of the band.

Eddie comes back to Sweden and contacts Mike Wead, legendary Mercyful Fate and King Diamond’ s guitar player, to be in charge of the Eddie’s voices’ recording in Stockholm, Sweden.

During these two last years, Breakdown concentrated on recording that first LP, which is called “Made of Scars”, produced by Pablo Stipicic. The album includes 10 metal rock songs with the most contemporary passages of groove metal, involving rhythm and melody.

During the European summer 2010, Breakdown will exclusively release its first single entitled “Payback Time” of its new album “Made of Scars” on their site www.myspace.com/breakdownweb.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Break.Down">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.