Break the Chair comes from Swedesboro in South Jersey. Once called "The Dark Flags Band" before they were even teenagers and before Tom had a bass drum pedal, they played simply for fun. It wasn't until a few years later when they collectively decided they wanted to be serious about an actual band. First, they would have to come up with a more hard-hitting name that they'd all be satisfied with. The boys sat around together, tossing names back and forth like many aspiring bands do, when Mike was leaning back in his chair, coming dangerously close to breaking it. It wasn't until his aunt yelled out "Don't break the chair!" that they'd found their name. They joked they would call their band "Break the Chair" until they could come up with something else. Needless to say, the name seemed to stick, and shortly after, that's what they performed their first gig under. 

Mike's art teacher from his middle school helped the band get their first gig at the popular local mall in Deptford, NJ. Despite the fact that the band was obviously nervous, they kept their composure and performed in front of dozens and dozens of people. From the start, people were immediately drawn to them for their astounding talent at such a young age. 

Heavily influenced by Metallica (they often covered Metallica songs during concerts), the mother of the Carp boys went out on a limb and e-mailed Metallica's tour crew in 2004 and wrote about how the legendary metal band had such a positive influence on the young band, and how they kept them off of the streets and out of trouble. Touched by the letter, Metallica invited Break the Chair to come to their sold out concert in Philadelphia, PA, and have a meet and greet beforehand. Needless to say, the young band must have made an impression, because the next day the band was invited back to enjoy the second concert--and to play on stage with Metallica themselves. Break the Chair has been eternally grateful ever since. 

Their new studio album "Bound By Aggression", was released in May of 2009. It consists of ten original songs written by the band. The cd can be purchased on iTunes, Rhapsody, Amazon, and CDbaby.com. The CD can be found here at 
http://www.cdbaby.com/cd/breakthechair if you would like to purchase it.

Many gigs have passed since their formation. They have played at various coffee houses, schools, bowling alleys, Eagles tailgating parties, the popular local gathering "Bobstock", various battles of the bands, and even at the Trocadero in Philadelphia. All the while, the young band has remained humble, always making sure to talk to their growing fan base. They've played in just about every condition, and always have fun no matter what. Break the Chair is all about the music, and will continue on in that tradition for years to come! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Break+The+Chair">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.