There are more than one artist with this name on last.fm:
1.) In the fall of 2003 long time friends Izzy Soriano (The First Step) and Crucial John Scharbach (TFS crew) got together to work on songs for what would eventually become the Breakthrough demo. The two didn’t set out to re-invent the wheel or be the next big thing, rather they focused on writing music that they would be stoked to play live with lyrics that shared a message they believed in. The result was four unbelievable songs of Straight Edge hardcore influenced by the likes of Insted, Insight, and Youth of Today with truly inspiring lyrics that make you want to get out in the world and make some kind of difference! The tracks, recorded as a two-piece, were pressed on tape, and after recruiting Aaron Chrietzberg (The First Step) and Chris Casali (Corrin) to complete the line-up Breakthrough started to hop on TFS sets in both the US and Europe. The response to the demo and live sets was overwhelming and with over a thousand copies being sent out all over the world and people in the crowd singing out loud and proud at every show it seemed like the stage was set for the Breakthough to make a major impact on the hardcore scene. But, life has a way of catching up with you and after a handful of crazy road trips and amazing shows- time, distance, and schedules got in the way and eventually BxT called it quits.

Fast forward to 2007; while on a TFS road trip the idea was broached with Crucial John of REACT! pressing the demo tracks to vinyl. Not only were both John and Izzy game, but the two also agreed to include an unreleased song which had been tracked in the original demo session but had been left without vocals. So, in 2008 the BxT crew entered the studio one last time with long time friend Ian Love (Rival Schools) and laid down the tracks for OUR PERSPECTIVE, a song that easily matches the intensity of band’s previously released material and also serves as a fitting close of a truly inspirational band.


2.) Back in 2000, DJ Jin started Breakthrough as a party at the legendary Aoyama Mix club in Tokyo. Jin was already well known as DJ and Producer for the group Rhymester, widely considered as one of the best hip hop groups in Japan. Soon after, DSK Invisible and Masaya Fantasista joined, and the trio made it their mission to experiment with DJing in order to expand the sound of hip hop and take it to the next level.

The Breakthrough album was formed organically as an extension of their monthly DJ sessions. Their eclectic taste is apparent through the diversity of the sounds on the album, unified through a love for timeless music, regardless of genre. This simple and pure approach to making music means that the Breakthrough boys never quite know what they’re going to compose next. There’s hip hop, break beat, rap, vocal, funk, r&b, jazz, house, broken beat, dub… A veritable melting pot of various musical elements, resulting in a hybrid of genres unified by one thing: the groove! The soundscape of Breakthrough is not only brand new, but also formed out of respect for the heritage of music.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Breakthrough">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.