Guitarist Ume and the drummer Kohei assembled a pair of vocalists, two guitarists and a bassist in June of 2006 to set up BREAK YOUR FIST, a Death Metal band with a mission to produce ferocious sounds for the masses. Heavily influenced by Grind Core, BREAK YOUR FIST can be seen performing gigs in the heart of Tokyo.

.. 2002 .. Released first demo of three songs; Group loses vocalist, guitarist and bassist in September 2003 right before going on tour .. 2004 March .. New Vocals, guitarist and bassist join band .. 2004 May .. First live performance with new members, released new demo which sold out
.. 2004 June .. One of the twin vocalists leaves

With the change of members, the group..s direction has shifted to present BREAK YOUR FIST to carry a more positive message.

A wall may stand in your path, and even though your fist may break from fighting back, to not be discouraged and overcome adversity is the band..s message. With the joining of new member..s, BREAK YOUR FIST has evolved to be hardcore, emotionally and musically.

The group sound is one that expresses the sensitivities and emotions of man..s heart through hard yet deep musicianship. Intense drums coupled with a supple bass gives birth to groovy beats. Such a backdrop inspires the two guitars to lyric poetry. Within the powerful vocals lies the gamut of human feelings: happiness, frustration, sadness and enjoyment. The strong sound and performance from all five members of the group are a combined expression of each individual..s thoughts and struggles one faces daily. As if one..s soul were upon us, madness fills BREAK YOUR FIST, unleashing a storm of energy sending chills to the fascinated audience, stirring their hearts.

2006 September .. Demo release and creation of a myspace site.

Not only in Japan, but are preparing for world domination: BREAK YOUR FIST.

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/breakyourfist#ixzz0zGy64OUR
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Break+Your+Fist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.