Breakbot aka Thibaut Berland is a French producer and DJ born in 1981. After studying at the School of Graphic Supinfocom, he made short films (with Oury Atlan and Damien Ferrié called "Overtime."), advertising and videos (David Hallyday - Satellite, Peter von Poehl - The Story of the Impossible). He is also a CG artist with credits including Arthur and the Invisibles. In may 2009 he was signed by Ed Banger Records.

Here's his bio on the Moshi Moshi Records site:

"Emerging electro wunderkid Breakbot crafts party tunes. Big ones. Following in the footsteps of French electro duo Justice, Parisian Thibaut Berland aka Breakbot has mastered the art of melting together all the best elements of dance, electro and hip hop with skill and precision. And a laptop.

Born in 1981, Thibaut was immersed in the sights and sounds of the subsequent decade, and remained appropriately pulled between his love of animation graphics/comics, and music. He chose neither one clear
path, nor another. Possessing a degree in computer graphics, and having created his first animation short film co-directed with two friends, Thibaut now makes music videos, commercials and such. By day. By night however, he cooks up choice cut electronic music, experimenting with beats, layers, keyboards, vocals, and Daft Punk-esque get-yo-funk-on basslines."

Discography:

Happy Rabbit EP (2007) Moshi Moshi Records
Iron Zombie (on the australian version of Happy Rabbit, 2008)
Penelope Pitstop (On "A New French Electronic Generation", 2009)
Baby I'm Yours (2010) Ed Banger Records
Baby I'm Yours Remix EP (2010) Ed Banger Records

Remixes:

2006
Justice - Let There Be Light (Breakbot Remix)

2007
datA - Aerius Light (Breakbot's Rework)
Arrow!!! - D.O.E.S (Breakbot's French Pute Mix)

2008
Pacific! - Runway To Elsewhere (Breakbot Remix)
Pacific! - Hold Me (Breakbot Remix)
Metronomy - A Thing For Me (Breakbot Version)
Late Of The Pier - Bathroom Gurgle (Breakbot Remix)
Fatlip - What's Up Fatlip? (Breakbot RMX) (sur Delicious Vinyl All-Stars - Rmxxology)
Alb - Sweet Sensation (Breakbot Remix)
Digitalism - Apollo-Gize (Breakbot 'Hypnotoad' Extended Remix)
ZZZ - Lion (Breakbot Remix)
Evil Nine - They Live! (Breakbot Remix)
Van She - Kelly (Breakbot Remix)
Sneaky Sound System - When We Were Young (Breakbot Remix)
Pnau - Baby (Breakbot Remix)

2009
Yuksek - Extraball (Breakbot Remix)
Röyksopp - Happy Up Here (Breakbot Remix)
Sébastien Tellier - Roche (Breakbot Remix)
Séverin - The Edge Of A Sunday (Breakbot Remix)
The Rakes - That's The Reason (Breakbot Remix)

2010
Jan Turkenburg - In My Spaceship (Breakbot Remix)
Air - So Light is Her Footfall (Breakbot Remix)
Kavinsky - Nightcall (Breakbot Remix)
Jamaica - I Think I Like U 2 (Breakbot Remix)

2011
Chromeo - When the Night Falls (Breakbot Remix)

Mixes:

MiniDisco Mix
Dance On Glass Mix
BBC In New DJ we Trust Heroes Mix
Valentine Mixtape
Annie Mac Minimix
TILT! Megamix <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Breakbot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.