Genre: Indie, Electronic
Region: Sydney, NSW
Members: Bree Tranter - lead vocalist and keyboardist Jack Saltmiras - Guitarist, keyboardist and Bass Rohin Jones - Guitar Mike Haydon - Drums
Sounds Like: The Middle east, Grouper, Zola Jesus
Influences: M83, Washed Out, Kurt Vile

Artist Website: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zuNgeWjdQ4U


Bree Tranter is originally from Townsville, where she grew up and started playing music. While studying music at university, Bree and a few friends decided to form a band; that group was The Middle East, a critically acclaimed experimental folk pop outfit who burned brightly until disbanding in 2011.

After the break up of The Middle East, Bree, who now lives in Sydney, began writing solo material. Winter, one of the first of those songs, came out in late 2011 on Gaga Digi. An immediately arresting, haunting track, Winter featured Tranter's beautifully fragile vocals atop a simple guitar figure, revealing Tranter as a seriously talented artist in her own right.

For her upcoming debut EP, Jaws, Bree collaborated with Mark Myers, Rohin Jones, Mike Haydon and Jack Saltmiras, her former bandmates with the Middle East, going back in order to move forward. Jaws displays a vulnerability that youth rarely affords, reflective of a path of contemplation, inspired by colour, nature, fear and love.

Bree sings with the honesty that helps define the woman that she is and the talent she honed through her days with The Middle East and, more recently, two years of traveling and writing, and touring with Matt Corby, among other things, Bree is back with a new single, 'Wounded Love', from her upcoming Jaws ep.

The first single, Wounded Love, is a departure from both her first single and the music of The Middle East, a shiver-inducing electro-pop number that highlights the delicacy and strength of Bree's voice. It's out now on itunes along with the video clip for wounded love up on youtube.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zuNgeWjdQ4U
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bree+Tranter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.