Breed of burden started on in 2010 as a solo metal project by Aladdin Benmira who wanted to bring his ideas to life and experiment his own metal genre.
“Tantrum” is the first demo realized by Aladdin in 2007, when he was living in France. Back then, his IT job forced him to slow down his music ambitions for a while and Tantrum had to wait till 2010, when Aladdin moved to London hoping to start playing again. Some melodic metal riffs from the demo were given life again to create his first album “The World is Sick”.

The recording session of The world is sick started in November 2011 at Parlours Studios (Kettering, UK) which is well known to famous death metal and heavy metal bands. All instruments of all 7 melodic tracks where performed by Aladdin during the recording, which was completed in a week – thanks to loads of “redbull” drinks and the help of producer Neil Haynes.

On December 2011, Aladdin met vocalist Joe Denby in London during a concert of Blaze Bayley’s heavy metal band (ex-frontman of Iron Maiden). After listening to the tracks, Joe was very enthusiastic about becoming part of the project and contributing with his vocals. He says: “This album covers all the very good metal I grew up with”. Aladdin and Joe recorded the vocal sections at Parlour and Legacy studios in January 2012.

Mix and mastering were completed at Studio Fredman in Gothenburg, in February 2012. Aladdin and producer Neil Haynes flew to Sweden to participate in the mixing/mastering, which was done by Fredrik Nordstrom and Henrik Udd.
The choice of the studio was obvious for Aladdin who is a huge fan of the heavy, death and black metal masterpieces produced in this studio (Dimmu Borgir, At the gates, In flames, Dark tranquillity, Arch enemy,and Bring me the Horizon….).

The experience was fantastic and the album was completed with a great quality.

In March 2012 guitarist Jay Howe and drummer James Benardout who were friends since music college joined Breed of Burden. Aladdin needed to complete the band lineup and the decision to choose these guys was easy to take as we found out that we are all fans of melodic music styles and we share the same vision of the metal genres we wanted to play.

The album:
2011 was a tough year for people around the world, a world that seems to be permanently going in the wrong direction. This album screams this the feeling of insecurity with the aim of moving your emotions.

We believe Humanity is a Breed of Burden. The World is Sick. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Breed+of+Burden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.