There are (at least) seven bands named Breed. Origins: 1) Norway. 2) Slovenia. 3) United Kingdom. 4.) Bergen, Norway. 5.) Split, Croatia. 6.) Japan. 7.) Perth, Australia.

About them: 1) Breed formed in the summer of 2004 in a bunker in the windy ocean town of Kristiansund - Norway. Honing their sound, fat groove metal, as they instantly started work on what would be the debut album. After releasing an intense video to the epic track “You Can’t Brake Me” they moved to Oslo and started the recording their debut album. In March 2007 the self-titled album “Breed” (FaceFront /Indie Records), was released. This album was a boulder of groove that wowed fans and critics alike. The album received great reviews all over Europe and the band toured around Norway and Sweden sharing stages with bands like DIMMU BORGIR, SATYRICON, TNT, TURBO NEGRO including and more. They also landed an opening slot for metal giants KILLSWITCH ENGAGE.

In early 2010 the band holed up in the studio with acclaimed names like Asgeir Mickelson (Testament, Borknagar, Sarke) Vocal Producer: Jock Loveband (Hellbillies, Madrugada, Savoy, Silje Nergaard) and Børge Finstad (Mayhem, Borknagar, Tristania, Sadus. The album was then brought to Fredman Studios (Dream Evil, Dimmu Borgir, Opeth, Arch Enemy) for mixing. At the close of the “out of the studio” tour the summer of 2010, Breed did a show at Getaway Rock in Sweden sharing the bill with names like SLASH, CANNIBAL CORPSE, MOTÖRHEAD, MEGADETH and more. BREED is proud of their intensely loyal fan base that seems to be drawn to, and is directly attributed to, the passion and no-compromise attitude in every live show BREED deliver. BREED is now ready with a monster follow up album and again they take a journey through the land of big fat groove metal.
www.breedmusic.net.

2) The Slovenian band, formed in 2005, played alternative and hard rock. They reformed in 2007, changed their genre into more indie-sounding alternative rock and their name into Obstacle 2.

3a) One of the UK bands called Breed were a trio from Liverpool, playing classic indie rock with slight bluesy influences. They were John Peels fave trio in the 1990's.

Lineup:
* Drums: Steve Hewitt (also former drummer with Placebo)
* Bass: Andrew Park (ex-Dream City Film Club; now: New Telepathic) 
* Guitar, Vocals: Simon Breed

3b) Breed is also a heavy metal band from Halesowen, West Midlands. Active on the local scene for the best part of two decades, they finally released their debut album in 2008

4) Breed was also the name of Kurt Nilsens first band. They later changed their name to Fenrik Lane.

5) Breed was an emo core band from Split, Croatia.

6) hardcore from japan

7) Breed is the name of a Perth-based progressive metal band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Breed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.