1) American Power Electronics https://www.stormfront.org/forum/t318156/

2) Brethren (Phyx x Tickets) are the psy trance band based in Cape Town, South Africa; consisting of 2 brothers Ian and Josef Summs. From their shows and releases you can expect dark melodic dance music with a lot of groove, psychedelics, and symphonic elements.

3) The Aussie hip-hop crew, Brethren, are a two man team of Mistery (Matthew Peet) & Wizdm (Claude Rodriguez) from Sydney. Both individuals are veterans of the hip-hop scene in their own right.

Mistery is one of the most renowned graffiti writers in Australia, a crucial member of internationally recognized graff crews Bounty Hunterz & 21st Century. He is also a b- boy who teaches breakdancing to hundreds of kids through the breaking team he started, Magic Villains, and is a key member of the Sony performance crew "Atrac 3".

Wizdm is no slouch either, an awarded expert of "popping & locking" [elements of b boying], an accomplished drummer and a very sort after producer.

The two hooked up in a pizza store in 1989 and released their first demo tape in 1992. They then released their first EP, "Big Brother" in 1994 through MDS (part of Mushroom Records) and "Slingshot" a year later in 1995. Their album, "Beyond Underground" was released in 2004.

http://www.myspace.com/brethrenhq

4) Miami hardcore band Brethren who released full length album "To Live Again" on Ohev records as well as a demo, 7", and a limited edition split CD w/ Trust No One.

Rising from the ashes of Mindframe, Brethren came to the attention of the Miami Hardcore scene by releasing their first Demo, 'Trapped In Reality' in early 1996. Playing extensively both around the Miami/Ft.Lauderdale area as well as in, and out of the state of Florida, Brethren helped revitalize and solidify a somewhat lagging local Hardcore scene, despite a shortage of venues permissive enough to allow hardcore shows at all. The release of a 2-song 7 inch vinyl EP by mid 1996 called 'No Regrets' further established Brethren as a cultural force to be reckoned with, and introduced the world to the band's unique "Miami-Style" brand of Hardcore.

Brethren toured the American East Coast in 1996 and later again, in 1997 and 1998 in support of their first full-length album 'To Live Again' (available on OHEV Records). This rapid rise to success on the national scene was accomplished in short order through the support and encouragement of such noteworthy hardcore stalwarts as Hatebreed and 25 ta Life as well as such diverse acts as Stretch Armstrong, Shai Hulud, Where Fear and Weapons Meet, Madball, New Found Glory, and Poison the Well. Since the demise of Brethren in late 2000-early 2001, Brethren has receded into the annals of time, a Hardcore legend in their own right.

http://www.myspace.com/brethren305

4) Psytrance producers Ian Summs (Phyx) and Joseph Summs (Tickets) from South Africa. They are brothers in real life. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brethren">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.