Breton = musicians/filmmakers/remixers/

Breton began life in a warehouse somewhere in South East London. Born from the creative force of musicians and filmmakers Roman Rappak and Adam Ainger and expanded recently into a multi-instrumental and visual collective with the inclusion of Ian Patterson and Daniel McIlvenny. This year, the very limited and quickly snapped-up EP Practical floated between “eerie and carnival-esque. Combining elements of math-rock, post-rock, straight-up Electro and even tropical” – Abeano.com. The second E.P. in the trilogy, entitled Sharing Notes, follows on Monday 5th July. The physical copy of this E.P. will come mounted on a hand-made circuit board with a list of components and directions which, when followed, creates a fully working  synth.

Under the guise BretonLABS, Breton run a slick operation of audio/visual experimentation. Remixes have been created for the likes of Is Tropical, Hatcham Social and Penguin Prison. Their short films have screened at both the London Short Film Festival and the East London Film Festival, with Breton performing a live soundtrack.  Their celebrated music videos - Penguin Prison, NewIsland, 80’s Matchbox B-Line Disaster – adorn all in-the-know blogs.

Breton are the glaring beacons of the mp3 generation; the generation of immediate access to music and visuals, where careers and genres spanning decades, cultures and the globe are spread wide open for the taking, downloading and mixing into billions of individual, eclectic and genre-defying playlists. With such light speed assimilation of influences -  spanning from The Beach Boys to Minimal House, Dub-Step to David Bowie, Bjork to East Coast Hip-Hop and a noticeable chunk of Post-Punk, Breton create wholly individual songs, with the end result being a blasting, constantly evolving sonic assault. 

Absorbing all, yet mixing it up into wholly individual songs building imposing razor sharp electronics, Post-Punk and Art-Rock that sounds like nothing else. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Breton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.