There are multiple artists named Brian:

1) Brian is an indie pop band founded in 1989 by Ken Sweeney in Dublin, Ireland. Brian started in 1989 as a duo formed by Ken Sweeney (vocals) and Niall Austin (guitar), releasing a first single titled "A Million Miles...". The band is named after Ken Sweeney’s older brother’s best friend, Brian Foley: “when I was young he was a bit of a hero of mine because he had the best clothes and the best records and he played bass in the Blades who were a notable band in my youth”. Releases include: "Understand" (1992), "Planes" EP (1992) and "Bring Trouble" (1999).

2)  Brian is a thrash metal band from Prague, Czech Republic, founded in 1989.

3) Brian Gintaek Joo (브라이언) (born January 10, 1981) is an American singer active in South Korea, where he is known as a member of R&B duo Fly to the Sky. He is professionally known as Brian. Brian entered the local pop music scene in 1999, at the tender age of 17. Born and raised in the United States, Brian entered the Korean entertainment industry after a friend signed him up for an audition with Brothers Entertainment and was then sent to SM Entertainment in Korea. He released his solo album, “The Brian,” in December 2006. The album incorporates different styles of music, such as pop, soul and jazz. An English track “All I Know” is included on the album.

4) Brian is a Dutch singer-songwriter.

5) Brian is a man from the Dutch reality show “De gouden kooi”. He was able to record a record. The track is called Wat je doet and it’s about “de gouden kooi”

6) Brian is a chiptune artist who began working in early 2010. He’s already written three platinum hit albums.

7) Brian is a tekno producer and DJ part of the KX-soundsystem from Eindhoven, Netherlands 

8) Brian is an Indiana-based rapper, formerly known as King Beezy. Released his mixtape 'End of the beginning', produced entirely by Wolverhampton (grime)beatmaker S-X, on May 15th, 2012.

9) Brian Immanuel is the new stage name of Indonesian rapper previously known as Rich Chigga

10) Brian is an electronic artist known mainly for his odd animations on youtube.  He now works with popcorn10 on the Cool 3d World channel. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.