Brian Tyler is a composer who writes, arranges, and conducts musical scores for films.

Born in Los Angeles, California, Tyler attended UCLA and Harvard University. He was a member of The Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity at UCLA, as part of the Epsilon Pledge Class. His musical career began at an early age, after being inspired by his Academy Award winning art director grandfather, Walter H. Tyler. He traveled to United States and Russia, performing at concerts with his own written and composed pieces. Over the years he has played in many orchestras, ensembles, choirs, and in a number of rock bands and with artists such as Elton John, Foo Fighters' drummer Taylor Hawkins, and Guns N' Roses guitarist Slash. 

Brian Tyler is a composer of over 50 films. He composed and conducted the scores for "Eagle Eye" for producer Steven Spielberg, the box office hit "Fast and Furious", "The Expendables" and "Rambo" directed by Sylvester Stallone, "Law Abiding Citizen" starring Jamie Foxx and Gerard Butler, the Keanu Reeves thriller "Constantine", the epic science fiction film "Battle: Los Angeles" and "Fast Five".

He began scoring features shortly after he received his bachelor's degree from UCLA and his master's degree from Harvard University. Tyler’s score for Bill Paxton’s "Frailty" won him a World Soundtrack Award in 2002 as well as The World Soundtrack Award as Best New Film Composer of the Year. The following year he received an Emmy nomination for his score for "The Last Call" and has since won 5 ASCAP Film Music Awards for "Eagle Eye", "Fast and Furious", "Law Abiding Citizen", "The Final Destination", and "Constantine". His score for "The Killing Room" was nominated for best thriller score of 2009 by the International Film Music Critics Association. iTunes also chose "Eagle Eye" as one of the ten best scores of 2008.

Tyler is a multi-instrumentalist playing drums, piano, guitar, orchestral and world percussion, bass, cello, guitarviol, charango, bouzouki, amongst others. After composing the score for "The Hunted" for Academy Award-winning director William Friedkin, Tyler found himself on the cover of Film Score Monthly Magazine dubbed as "The Future of Film Scoring". He then composed the score for Disney's "The Greatest Game Ever Played" starring Shia LaBeouf. His score for "The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift" hit #1 on the iTunes soundtrack sales charts while his soundtrack for "Children of Dune" was the #4 best selling album on Amazon.com during March of 2003.

Other credits include 20th Century Fox’s science-fiction film "Timeline" directed by Richard Donner, "Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem", "Star Trek: Enterprise", "Transformers Prime", and Steven Spielberg’s upcoming series "Terra Nova". His music has been used in a multitude of film trailers including "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull", "The Departed", and "The Chronicles of Narnia". He is also the executive producer and composer for the upcoming thriller "Columbus Circle". Tyler was recently inducted into the music branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

Awards / Nominations

Emmy Award Nomination (2002): Outstanding music composition for a miniseries, movie or special - Last Call.

World Soundtrack Award Nomination (2002): Discovery of the year – Frailty.

Cinescape Award Nomination (2002): Best score of the year – Frailty.

Cinemusic Award (2002): Thriller score of the year – Frailty; Best new composer of the year.

Cinescape Award (2003): Best score of the year – Timeline; Best score of the year - Children of Dune.

BSOSpirit Film Music Award (2004): Revelation of the year; Best score of the year (non-theatrical) - Children of Dune; Best thriller / horror score of the year - Darkness Falls.

The International Film Music Critics Association Award Nomination (2004): Best original horror / Thriller motion picture score - The Final Cut.

The International Film Music Critics Association Award Nomination (2005): Best original horror / Thriller motion pictures score - Constantine.

Filmtracks Award Nomination (2007): Best film score of the year – Partition.

Itunes Award (2008): Best score - Eagle Eye.

The International Film Music Critics Association Award Nomination (2009): Film composer of the year; Best original score -  The Killing Room.

The International Film Music Critics Association Award Nomination (2011): Best original score for a video game - Lego Universe.

Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (2011): Outstanding Achievement in Music Direction and Composition - Transformers Prime. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brian+Tyler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.