Formed in Fukuoka Japan in 2012, BRIDEAR is one of Japan’s premier heavy metal bands and is setting their sights on the global stage. With diverse influences from German metal legends Helloween to British prog-pop pioneers Muse, the all-female quintet combines elements of power metal, progressive rock, and the melodic hooks of J-pop to create a sound unlike any of their rivals from the Land of the Rising Sun.

After releasing their first single in 2012, BRIDEAR has been unrelenting. Performing across Japan, the band developed a dedicated following which continued to grow with their first EP Overturn the Doom, and the follow up hit single and popular music video “Light in the Dark.” International audiences soon discovered the video online creating a massive buzz and passionate global hard rock/metal audience.

Following the 2016 release of their first full-length album BARYTE, the group continued to perform across their home country gaining a reputation for excellent musicianship and engaging live performances. In 2017, BRIDEAR performed in Europe for the first time and appeared at major conventions such as Mondocon in Budapest, Hungry and Made in Asia in Brussels, Belgium supporting their EP HELIX. Having performed in 11 countries, BRIDEAR has worked to build their fan base in the West while becoming a major label act in Japan, attracting AVEX TRAX for their 2019 album Expose Your Emotions. On October 5th 2019, BRIDEAR performed in London at METAL MATSURI, the first all J-metal festival outside of Japan, with a stunning set winning more international fans and gaining press attention in their home country for the memorable performance.

In early 2021, BRIDEAR joined UK-based label SETSUZOKU RECORDS. The band's latest album, Bloody Bride, was BRIDEAR's first official international release. The album recieved incredible reviews from international music media, and drew the attention of such publications as Metal Hammer and Guitar Player magazine. In September 2021, The epic 8-minute prog masterpeice 'Brave New World Revisited' was then released as a digital single, encapuslating the band's incredible versatility and technical wizardry. 

In September 2021, BRIDEAR became the first artist from Japan to tour internationally since the onset of the global COVID-19 situation. The tour was a triumphant return to the international stage displaying the band's bravery and will to overcome the odds and reclaim live music in a 'Brave New World'. 

May 2022 will see the international release of the brand-new album Aegis of Athena—a blistering 11-track opus perfectly blending traditional heavy metal, progressive arrangements, and addictive J-rock hooks. With ambitions at an all-time high, BRIDEAR is set to further their international reach in 2022 and beyond.

Current lineup:
Vo.KIMI
Ba.晴琉（HARU）
Gt. MOE
Gt. Ayumi
Dr. Natsumi

Former members:
Gt.美彩季 (MISAKI) - on Hiatus as of July 2022
Gt.美弦（MITSURU）
Gt.Misa
Dr.KAI <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bridear">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.