1.) Bridge (1989-1995)

●Mami Otomo : lead vocal
●Nobuyuki Ohashi : guitar/chorus
●Hirotaka Shimizu : vocal/guitare
●Hiroko Kurosawa : drums/chorus
●Hideki Kaji : bass/chorus
●Mayumi Ikemizu : organ/piano/accodion/chorus

http://www2s.biglobe.ne.jp/~sight/bridge/

2.) Bridge (1971)

3.) A Dubstep producer.

4.) A Canadian psychedelic country rock band who released a single eponymous album in 1971. The band, who released a previous album in 1969 under the name David, featured Francis Webster on guitar, his brother John on bass and Tony Lecaillon on drums.

5) Female fronted powerviolence from Orange County.
https://www.facebook.com/whitegirlgrindviolence

6.) A Chinese rapper under the laber GOSH.

7)  Hard Rock band from Norh Carolina, USA.

In the summer of ‘97, two brothers born into music formed the modern rock band Bridge. Frontman Terrill Hinson creates heart-drenching lyrics that speak truth and experience while brother and heavy hitter Brandon Hinson provides the backbone of the group on drums. Jason Anderson brings heavy riffs and soaring solos through lead guitars while Joe Patane completes the lineup with his infusion of strong and solid bass lines.

Following the initial success of their debut EP, Bridge traveled from Charlotte NC to Seattle, enlisting the support of Smashmouth’s Steve Harwell and producer Jon Dunleavy. The result was the 2001 release of Bridge’s first full album, “Blinking Reality”. It went on to sell 6,000 records as Bridge blistered the regional scene from festival dates to regular stints at the House of Blues-Myrtle Beach. The band showcased at the Atlantis Music Conference in Atlanta in September of 2003 and walked away titled “Band Most Likely to Succeed” and went off to showcase at the Nashville New Music Conference and the at the Viper Room in Los Angeles where they were asked to return. In the December of 2003, Bridge release “Ten and One” which is currently available at all online digital sites and online retail stores and has already moved 500 units as of mid-February.

Live Bridge shows are extremely high energy and envelop the crowd in a contagious excitement felt throughout the entire audience. Their dynamic onstage success led Charlotte Modern Rock station WEND 106.5 the End to summon Bridge for appearances at numerous radio-sponsored events. Bridge has performed with, among others, Live, Oleander, Smashmouth, Foo Fighters, Dexter Freebish, Course of Nature, and Unwritten Law. After shows they take time to meet and greet fans with CDs and autographs. At a recent three day festival including over 60 acts such as Hootie and the Blowfish and Collective Soul, Bridge sold the most merchandise of any band and fell just short of the Foo Fighters. The shows allowed the band to grasp their audience with memorable, passionate rock and roll while reaching crowds as high as five figures.

Bridge’s sound comes from the wide influences of all the members. They range from Pearl Jam, Stone Temple Pilots, Creed, the Black Crowes, and Led Zepplin. Bridge strives to bring something unique to the listeners ear while at the same time playing the music they all grew up listening to. The new material demonstrates Bridge’s promise of enormous things to come from the sound of a new voice. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bridge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.