BrideOfTheMonster.org





Like the creation of most gruesome creatures, the inception of Toronto’s most horrific metal band was a complete accident.

Bride of the Monster was formed in 2004 by vocalist/bassist J. and drummer Scump with a love for metal and all things macabre, and the intent to create a soundtrack for gore. While in the midst of producing an independent horror film, the two began working on the music to go along with it. With images of hacking limbs, surgical procedures and the walking dead as sources of musical inspiration, J. and Scump soon began to realize their brutal rock-driven death metal kicked unholy ass, thus putting the film on the backburner to concentrate on more songwriting.

Bringing Dan and then-second guitarist Joe into the band in 2006, Bride of the Monster headed to the studio to record their debut EP Plague of Ages. While the band was still in an infantile stage, the record garnered high praise in the pages of a number of magazines including Brave Words & Bloody Knuckles in Canada and Zero Tolerance overseas. Legendary metal publication Metal Maniacs was among the most complimentary to Bride of the Monster’s creative approach at brutal death metal, saying Plague of Ages, “Rips ya wide open with gore and gall right out the gate. Spines are pulled through necks with ease in this rock n’ rip onslaught.”

And like a slithering infection, word of the EP quickly began to spread, creating a buzz throughout the underground and online metal circuit. The record received accolades in tons of online metal magazines, quickly bringing in over 30,000 hits to the band’s official Myspace page.

With the quick success of the EP also came invitations to share the stages with bands such as Deicide, Quo Vadis, Cryptopsy, and Disgust in the Toronto area. Their unique blend of groove-laden rock and grinding death metal has also allowed for the accessibility to play with bands like Starring Janet Leigh to more diverse crowds.

In 2007, Bride of the Monster became a five-piece as Joe was replaced by Dave on guitar and Devlin stepped in as lead vocalist, adding an entirely new, brutal element to their sound. With a guttural, gore-grind influence comparable to Carcass, ultra-fast blast beats and whirlwinding buzz-saw soloing akin to Exhumed, all held down by grooving rock-rooted riffs comparable to Blood Duster or Alabama Thunderpussy, Bride of the Monster is more ferocious than ever.

And with the new line up, the band is currently in the midst of recording their debut full-length at Toronto’s DNA studios with Juno nominated, SOCAN award winning producer Kenny MacLean. The album is expected to be released this fall with several pre-release Toronto shows followed by an Eastern Canadian tour. This is only the beginning.

Be prepared for the wake of Bride of the Monster.

- Pete Richards
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bride+Of+The+Monster">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.