Our band began its existence in November of 1997 year. Founders of band – Mor (bass, vocals), Angel (guitars). At the beginning we were titled as “CASKET & MORGUE” and reach out for dark blasphemous lyrics, full of black sarcasm and cruelty, coming near to madness. Music was created under inspiration of the most cruel and brutal actions of world death-metal and grind-core scene.

The stuff, created in that time by Mor and Angel (authors of all music and lyrics)was made together with drummer Silver and vocalist Viroga, when they reach our band in late of 1998 (August, October). And that time we changed our title to BRILLIANT COLDNESS. And in 29.12.1998 was debut concert of our band in our own town, Luhans’k. We had played a lot of gigs with this stuff. But when we were ready to record this stuff, Viroga (vocals) and then Silver (drums) escape our band in 2000 year and our first stuff remained only on live video from gigs. 

But, as founders of BRILLIANT COLDNESS and creators of all lyrics and music, we (Mor, Angel) began to create new stuff that became demo “MESSENGERS OF GODNESS IMMORTALITY” in 2001 year. And when two songs were done Silver (drums) came back to our band and we began to make this stuff together with drums – it was in the end of 2000. In the end of 2001 (in winter) we go to recording studio to record this stuff. In 2002 it was released by BLOODHEAD production (Ukraine) as split MC with GOLDPRICK (Byelorussia). All that time we had played a lot of gigs with new stuff (it was also tracks from “BEYOND ETERNITY”). 

During 2002-2003 was created album “BEYOND ETERNITY” that was recorded on Lenin rec. in late 2003. And in late 2003 Silver (drums) again escape our band and we decided to play only with drum-machine (samples). This stuff was released in late 2004 by DEAD CENTER production (Ukraine) in MC and CD-r size. In early 2005 we had broken all relations with DEAD CENTER. And then, when one song from new stuff “Poisoned Reality” was recorded (April 2005, track “POST-MORTEM REALITY”, - it was last record made together with our ex-drummer Silver after several concerts in Ukraine and abroad) “BEYOND ETERNITY” was re-released by our label ETERNITY production (Ukraine) in CD-r size (b/w pro-printed covers) with this new song. 

Some kind of promotion for our band BRILLIANT COLDNESS was made by “BEYOND ETERNITY”. Our first long play album was spread through labels, magazines and web-zines in different countries, such as: Ukraine, Russia, Byelorussia, Hungary, Macedonia, Czech Republic, Poland, France, Thailand, Singapore, Great Britain, USA, Brazil and still spreads through foreign and native labels all over the world.

During creation of “BEYOND ETERNITY” our world-view changed and there were no blasphemous and cruel lyrics anymore. From that time we carry through our music and lyrics only truth and only highest godness knowledge, that must be in use for everyone, who looking for real sense in his life. We are open for intercourse, speaking about the most important spiritual life of human. We want to help everyone who can hear us and who want to understand what is happen around and inside all of us. 

New stuff, called “POISONED REALITY” was made during the end of 2004 – half of 2006 year. Breaking relations with our ex-drummer we met second guitarist Alex Brilliant. And some time ago Alex met drummer Dmitry Medvedev in autumn of 2005 year. So in number of four members we proceed to work over new stuff. Result of our common work as renewed and complete group and as 10-years of working in music for Mor and Angel (founders of group) and for 9-years of existence of BRILLIANT COLDNESS is album of 2006 year “Poisoned Reality”.

“POISONED REALITY”, which consists of nine (9) tracks and total time is 54.37 minutes was recorded during 50 hours of working in BEASTS STUDIO in period from 3 to 7 of July of 2006 year. We are very thankful and gratitude to Boris, Oleg and Alex Sweir from BEASTS STUDIO for their brilliant and grateful professional work over our stuff!!! Thanks to the fact of their work in mastering, “POISONED REALITY”, had exactly that kind of brilliant and powerful sound. 

In March of 2007 year Alex Brilliant left BRILLIANT COLDNESS and after that on the vacant place of second guitar was invited Dmitry Yemets (Dimas). Then, in February of 2008 Dmitry Medvedev stopped to play in our band being traveling to another country and this vacant place was filled by the new drummer Alexander (Napalmer). And so we had started rehearses to be able with this new line-up to play concerts. And in the end of a July of 2008 we had found a vocalist Andrew, practiced in growling vocal during last 6 years – in his band called “Simbioz”. 

Concert activity with new line-up was started from 22 of November of 2008 in t. Severodonetsk (Luhansk region) with Ukrainian underground death-grind bands. Then we organized gig in our town 13 of December of 2008. There also were DATURA (Donetsk) and EPICRISE (Severodonetsk, Lugansk region). And then was gigs in Lugansk: 22 of February of 2009 (with Lugansk’ metal bands) and 18 of April together with VOMIGOD (Poland), ABNORMYNDEFFECT (Moldova), SORGHUM and SINNER BLEEDS (Ukraine). And after gig in Artemovsk (Donetsk reg.) Andrew left the band and Mor again started to sing combine it with his powerful play on bass. 

14 of July of 2009 we signed contract with APOLLON RECORDS/PAINKILLER PRODUCTIONS (The Netherlands; official web-site is: www.apollonrecords.nl) for unlimited edition of our latest album "Poisoned Reality" and territory is Worldwide. Official date of this release is 27 of Octouber of 2009. Official manager of BRILLIANT COLDNESS as representative from APPOLON RECORDS/PAINKILLER PRODUCTIONS is Patricia Thomas from England (London). 

19.09.2009 in our own toun, Lugansk, we made metal gig with invited our friends – BALFOR and ACEPHALA. Live video was made there on 4 (four) cameras and it must be mastered during this month. Professional live video created special for BRILLIANT COLDNESS and BALFOR. 

So now in stabilized line-up of our group we prepare concert program, working over the new stuff. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brilliant+Coldness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.