Broadway Calls is the sometimes pop, sometimes punk, always ultra-catchy band hailing from Rainier, Oregon. Having been compared to bands like Latterman, Green Day, Alkaline Trio and Kid Dynamite, Broadway Calls appeals to an audience of intense, genuine music lovers: The kind of crowd that loves to sing every word to every song.

After playing one hometown show, Broadway Calls took a sink-or-swim approach and headed straight out on tour with label-mate Daggermouth. The tour was a great success and Broadway Calls made a name for themselves in the hardcore community. In the year that followed the band hardly had time to come up for air between writing and recording an album, completing another full US tour and playing shows with bands such as Crime In Stereo, I Am The Avalanche, The Smoking Popes, The Draft, Avail, This Is Hell, Set It Straight, Ruiner, Dead Hearts, Counting the Days and Final Fight. 

Accomplishing that much in their first year can mean only one thing: This band is fishing with the right hooks. The songs are melodic, straight-ahead and extremely difficult not to sing along to. These are boys having the time of their life and it shows. As their lyrics express, “My heart beats faster every night. Please let this last forever”. Drummer Josh Baird echoes this sentiment, “We hope people enjoy the record as much as we do playing it.” It’s hard not to. 

Broadway Calls signed to Smallman Records in Canada and State of Mind Recordings in the US for the release of their self-titled full-length debut produced by Willie Samuels of Green Day’s Production team at Pittsburg’s Nu-Tone studios. The band has also signed to Adeline Records and will be reissuing their self-titled album in February (digital) and March (CD/LP)

Formed in the winter of 2005/2006, Broadway Calls is Ty Vaughn (Guitar/Vocals), 
Matt Koenig (Bass/Vocals), and Josh Baird (Drums). The band is built on the solid foundation of Josh and Ty's decade long history of making music together. Their previous band Countdown to Life was signed to New Age Records (Strife, Countervail, Lifetime). 

Watch for Broadway Calls on tour this Spring and on the Warped Tour all Summer. Check 
http://www.myspace.com/broadwaycalls for updates

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Broadway+Calls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.