Broadmoor is a Danish band, formed in Aalborg, North Jutland in 2000. 
www.broadmoor.dk

Broadmoor was formed in the year 2000 by drummer Thomas Antonsen and former guitarist Christian Hougaard. The rehearsals began in August 2000 when guitarist Lars Vinther was asked to join forces with the two.
After about a year Lars talked to bass player Søren Graungaard and asked him if he would join this new band. He thought the music was cool, and agreed to join Broadmoor without hesitating a moment.

However, Christian got drafted to the army, and later decided to get a career in the military thing, so now the band was left with just one guitarist. During that period Thomas struggled continually with great pain in both of his wrists, so the band was forced to take a long, involuntary break. About ½ a year passed with no rehearsing at all, when the members decided to give it a try once again, as they couldnt quit this great thing they had going.
In 2001-2003 several singers were in and out of the band, but none of them really had what it takes to be a member of Broadmoor. The band was still left as a trio. 

Lars knew guitarist Søren Hoff, and asked him if he would be interested in joining Broadmoor as a guitarist. Despite Søren already being in a band, he agreed to join us. 

Finally the line-up was completed by singer Anette Schou in February 2004. A couple of concerts took place during 2004, and on both occasions the band received great response from the audience. However, the cooperation with Anette ended in November 2004, and Søren took her place with the vocals. 

The band started the recordings of their first demo on January 22nd , 2005 at Apole Studios (www.apole.dk). Morten Sandager of local metal band Mercenary was the man behind the mixer. 

After recording the demo, Søren Hoff decided that he wanted to focus solely on his singing duties. Lars then spoke to Signar (ex-Mercenary, ex-Behind The Curtain) and told him that Broadmoor needed a guitarist. The first rehearsal took place a week later, and Signar is now a full member of the band. 

In autumn 2005 Broadmoor was blessed with a keyboard player (Ulrik Vesti), who had actually been a friend of the band for some time. So now, after 5 years of searching, they finally have the line-up, which they have all dreamed of. This new addition makes the bands live sound much more full and interesting. 

In February 2006 Broadmoor ended up 2nd in a big metal contest in Denmark, receiving great response from the audience. In 2007 the band recorded their first full-length album which is yet unreleased. At the moment the band is negotiating a contract with a mangement, which might later lead to the signing of Broadmoor to a record label. 
 
 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Broadmoor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.