Brody Dalle (born Bree Joanna Alice Robinson on Jan. 1st, 1979 in Melbourne, Australia) is former lead vocalist and guitarist of Sourpuss (1993– 1996), rock band The Distillers (1998-present) and Spinnerette (2007 – 2012). When Dalle got married to Tim Armstrong from Rancid, shortly after she had turned eighteen, she moved to Los Angeles, California where she founded The Distillers. In 2003 she and Tim Armstrong divorced and she decided to use Dalle for her surname, since then she was known as Brody Dalle.

She is currently married to musician Josh Homme, a member of Queens of the Stone Age, among other groups. In November 2012, Dalle announced on Twitter that she was working on a solo album, featuring Alain Johannes and Michael Shuman of Queens of the Stone Age and Shirley Manson of Garbage.

By November 2013 Dalle announced that she had signed to Caroline Records a division of Universal Music Group with the intention of releasing her debut solo album in early 2014. Song titles that have been mentioned are "Meet The Foetus" "I Don't Need Your Love" "Dressed In Dreams" and "Carry On". The Album was produced by Alain Johannes, and features guest appearances from Shirley Manson of Garbage, Nick Valensi of The Strokes, and Warpaint’s Emily Kokal. Dalle is scheduled to promote the album and support Nine Inch Nails and The Queens of the Stone Age on their Australia/New Zealand tour in March 2014.

February 11th 2014 Dalle released the first single from her debut solo album, Diploid Love, called "Meet The Foetus / Oh The Joy" featuring backing vocals by Shirley Manson of Garbage. Diploid Love was officially released on April 29 2014. She recently declared for NME: “In The Distillers, I feel like I didn’t have anything to say, so I concentrated on political, social issues. These days, it’s more personal?” “I am ready to be free from the past and move on.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brody+Dalle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.