A hardcore punk band started in 1983. The sound of Broken Bones is the sound of punk at its most primal, the crashing roar of wild, wild youth taken to limits even the Sex Pistols never dreamed of. When the band formed in 1983, punk was roaring. Then Broken Bones came along and the reverberations are still being felt today, in the battle cries of Bad Religion and the swagger of Rancid, in the white heat of Slayer and the debauchery of Ministry. Some people have called Broken Bones one of the biggest Hardcore bands of all time and one of the most vital, various U.S. mega-bands such as Metallica have even acknowledged them as one of their influences.
Broken Bones are from England and were formed by Tony "Bones" Roberts in 1983 after they he left Discharge. Sounds magazine did an article titled "Broken Bones", about Bones leaving Discharge. Bones had found his new band name. The original lineup was Tezz on bass, Bones on guitar, Nobby as the vocalist and drummer Bazz. Their first single release was the January 1984 "Decapitated" which hit # 10 in the indy charts. The follow-up single "Crucifix" was released in May 1984 hitting #12. Tezz left the band to join UK Subs and friend and roadie Paul "Hoddy" took over on bass. This new line-up recorded the band's first album "Dem Bones", and toured Europe & the USA.
Hoddy then left to join Conflict, and Tezz resumed bass playing duties, and the F.O.A.D. album was released with Karl "Egghead" from The Exploited joining in on rythem guitar.
The band then had several line-up changes with Nobby leaving to live in America and Tezz once more departing . Hoddy returned to play bass and sing. The band released the "Seeing Thru My Eyes" ep with this 3-piece line-up. Eventually the band ground to a halt.
Later the band reformed once more with the original line up to record 'trader in death', a record the band cites as their best recording.
Bones reformed the band with a new line up of Cliff on drums, Quiv on vocals and Darren "Thrasher" Harris (of Exit Condition) on bass. This is where the band took a more metal turn with their music, releasing "Losing Control". Two more albums were to follow with the 12 inch release "Religion is Responsible" and another album "Stitched Up". After these albums release, the band's touring and recording fell into remission.
In 1996 Broken Bones reformed. Bones as on guitar, Quiv on vocal, Hoddy on bass and Dave on drums. They released their first studio album in 8 years, "Without Conscience" in 2001 and in 2004, they released "Time For Anger, Not Justice". Both albums bring the band back to their roots as they play the brand of hardcore they're most well known for. They still gig and tour regularly. They were the last band to play before 2006's ill-fated British Invasion concert in San Bernardino was shut down. They played they're last show with this line up supporting the UK Subs in 2010.
In 2012 Broken Bones were to reform again, this time with original member Tezz Roberts back on bass, Bones on lead guitar and also returning to the group is Karl "Egghead" Morris. New to this line-up is Jeff "JJ" Janiak on vocals, and Andy Dawson on drums. This Line up toured throughout much of Europe before Karl and Andy would call it a day. Andy would be replaced by former drummer Dave Bridgewood and go on to release the "Dead & Gone" EP.


Discography

1983 single "Decapitated"
1983 single "Crucifix"
1984 Album "Dem Bones"
1984 Album "I..O..U....Nothing"
1985 Album "Live at the 100 Club"
1985 single "Seeing Through My Eyes"
1985 Album "Bonecrusher" (U.S. only release)
1986 single "Never Say Die"
1987 Album "F.O.A.D" studio/live album
1987 Album "Trader in Death"
1989 Album "Losing Control"
1991 Album "Stiched UP"
1992 single "Religion is Responsible"
2001 Album "Without Conscience"
2003 single "No One Survives"
2004 Album "Time For Anger, Not Justice" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Broken+Bones">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.