There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Broken Circle is a band started by Last.FM's DistortedSmile.  The band consists of four childhood friends: Jake Kinsale (bass, backup vocals), Johnny Matthews (lead vocals, rhythm guitar), Clif Martin (drums) and Tara O'Sullivan (lead guitar, backup vocals, keyboards, drums).

The band formed back in 1998 in Woodstock, NY when the majority of its members were still attending high school.  The band went through numerous name changes over the next two years (starting out as Stark Naked & The Car Thieves, followed by Final Exit and finally landing at Broken Circle thanks to an inside joke and a fan's suggestion.)

After picking up a fairly large fan base in the Woodstock and Ulster County area, the band began doing shows in Hackensack, NJ (Johnny's hometown) and a few bar venues in NYC.  Five years later, they were playing bigger venues to sold out shows.

They released their first album in spring of 2001, named Shadows, an album which sold more than 5,000 copies in less than six months.  The band rarely toured outside of New York and New Jersey, preferring to keep the music close to home.  By the time spring of 2003 rolled around, the band had released another album named Selfish (Shadows, Part II).  This album proved to be the height of Broken Circle's career and many of the songs acted as a springboard for larger headlining shows.

The band was offered a contract with a subsidiary of Atlantic Records.  Tragically, in spring of 2004 at the very height of their popularity, Johnny Matthews (lead singer) was killed in a car crash.  Three months later, his replacement and best friend, Ash, was killed in a terrible motorcycle accident.

In late 2004, Jake Kinsale was diagnosed with lung cancer and died in early 2005, which spurned on a suicide by Clif Martin leaving Tara O'Sullivan the only surviving member of the ill-fated band.

Their albums are still sold in a few bars, clubs, and local haunts in upstate New York and are readily available from http://www.last.fm/user/DistortedSmile/.

Tara now writes her own solo music and has released two classical guitar albums and a piano solo tribute to her old friends' music.  She also regularly performs songs in Irish (Gaeilge) and can be seen switching between fiddles, bodhrans, and guitars at Celtic festivals throughout the northeastern US.


2) Broken Circle is a Dutch metal band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Broken+Circle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.