1. Broken is a hardcore band from Melbourne

2. Broken (Alternative / Southern Meridional Rock  / Modern Hard Rock)

Broken, a simple word to describe a reality-based rock music. Formed in 2011 by the union of four musicians who have long militated in the Italian, the band has been apparent from the outset by participating in the contest "Foo Fighters Rock In Idrho "organized by SONY Music Italy, and had the opportunity to participate in an episode dedicated to the contest by RockTv. Immediately after the experience the boys have given birth to their first single: Against. Strong and direct, the piece was received with great enthusiasm, becoming the "smash" some evenings Milan as the "SDENG!" and the "RockThe Pool." Following these initial goals, the Broken embarked on a long journey that has led them to perform on various stages in northern Italy (ZOE Club, Vox Heineken, Honky Tonky, Amnesy Disco Club, The Monkeys etc .) In 2013 in time is ripe to finally finish off the work of previous years, recording the debut album "In Pieces." For the recording of the album the four of them rely on Matteo Bolzoni and Larsen Premoli the RecLab Studio in Milan. "In Pieces "was released April 19, 2014.

Band Members:
Salvatore Cataldo - Vocals
Stefano Giuli - Guitars
Danilo Tosin - Drums
Marco Paradisi - Bass

3.  Broken (Trip Hop / Breakbeat  / abstract Hip Hop)

Follow "Broken" At At www.beatsbybroken.com
Christopher Green or better known as "Broken" was born in Anchorage,AK...
A place where he learned his first musical understandings at, from his brother's beat up stereo and his father's record collection "Broken" gained an early understanding of what hits the heart.
Later moving to Canada and going through many phases and changes during the process Broken heard many types of music which he still carries with him to this day.
Landing in Las Vegas with his father Broken met the other member of the now formed group "N1nth Cloud", and the stars linked and the combo has not stopped releasing three group efforts "Self Titled" & "Dos."& "Sides" 
He released his second solo effort "Message In a Bottle" In 2010 the follow up to "48 Hours",  and just released "Two Week Notice" (2013)available for FREE download at http://broken48hours.bandcamp.com
which has many style from dubstep,electronica,hip hop, trip hop and more. He just finished up an 2 albums with Input from Denver,CO called "Left For Dead" and "Never Heard Of Ya" And produced "Contrails" for Astronautalis Ft. Teagn Quin from Teagan&Sara!  Please help this man get more popular by sharing this with one friend!



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Broken">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.