Bronze Nazareth was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan where his love for hip-hop was fostered by a group of friends wanting to escape their humble existence through the power of music. At sixteen, Bronze formed a group with his high school friends that planted the seeds for his future in music. He and his group ‘The South House Click’ attempted to work on their music, but lacking resources, never got the chance to record their dreams. While no actual recordings materialized, it was in this inner city home that Bronze’s creative spark was cultivated. 

Bronze Nazareth is a Hip-Hop producer and MC associated with the Wu-Tang Clan. He is regarded as the new generation torchbearer of the Wu-Tang sound. He has a solo career as an emcee and is also the head of his Detroit based group the Wisemen.

After becoming a Wu Element in 2002 and moving to Detroit, two of Bronze’s beats were chosen by The RZA for his album Birth of a Prince. The album’s title track, on which RZA retired the popular Bobby Digital alter ego, was produced by Bronze as was the sonically brilliant ‘A Day to God is a Thousand Years’. In 2005, Bronze introduced a younger generation to Wu-Tang via the Source’s Independent Album of the Year (2005) Wu Tang Meets The Indie Culture. Garnering critical acclaim for his work on the album Nazareth found himself with a Babygrande Records recording contract. 2006 saw Bronze release his first solo album The Great Migration where he proved his lyrical deft was on par with his production. Again, Nazareth’s album received critical acclaim.

Detroit, Michigan to New York City is a 15 hour one-way bus trip. It took Bronze Nazareth four of such round trips on a Greyhound bus from Detroit to New York to finally meet RZA, the abbot of the Wu-Tang Clan; the man responsible for selling millions of records, selling out arenas, scoring wildly successful movies and, generally, changing the course of popular culture. On the fourth trip, Bronze was able to use his talent to get inside 36 Chambers, ended up doing three tracks for one of Rza’s groups that was recording and then Rza arrived.

As Bronze recalls: “When he walked in I noticed he was nodding his head to the beats. After vibing for awhile in the studio, Rza and crew were about to go to the club, and I was like, ‘yo RZA, let me get just five minutes, that’s all I need!’ He graciously gave me those five minutes. I showed him one song, and it was Wu-Tang from then on.”

Upon hearing the song ‘Blowgun,’ The RZA immediately asked Bronze Nazareth to join his production group, The Wu Elements. As The RZA instantly recognized, Bronze churns out searing, painful production that is practically tangible in its emotiveweight, while his deep poetic lyrics are designed to put a thinking mind to work. Bronze incorporates the rawness of his beloved old-school soul albums, injecting his beats with painful moans and notes that mesmerize.

In the whirlwind years that followed, Bronze’s music fueled the sale of hundreds-of-thousands of units and left its own indelible imprint upon the Wu-Tang legacy. He has since worked with the likes of The Wu-Tang Clan, RZA, Raekwon, GZA/Genius, Masta Killa, Inspectah Deck, Royce da 5'9", Canibus, AZ, Immortal Technique, Copywrite, LA the Darkman, Willie the Kid, Kool G Rap, Buckshot, Sean Price, Ras Kass, Cannibal Ox, Tragedy Khadafi, Del tha Funkee Homosapien, Casual of Hieroglyphics, Roc Marciano, 4th Disciple, Killarmy, Black Market Militia, R.A. the Rugged Man, Timbo King, Planet Asia, and many more of today’s most vibrant and relevant independent acts.

His most recent work, on Raekwon's Shaolin vs. Wu-Tang, Wu-Tang Clan's Legendary Weapons, a stellar verse alongside Royce da 5’9" & Sean Price on “Let’s Go” and Willie The Kid’s “The Guilt” further prove that Bronze Nazareth’s star continues to rise.

September 13, 2011, Saw Bronze release his sophomore album, School for the Blindman, which is again being heralded (by fans and critics alike) as a masterpiece. The album is a charted #61 on the Billboard Hip Hop & R&B Top 200 hundred.

Bronze isn’t precious like gold, Bronze is hard. Gold is for the show, Bronze is the foundation. Some folks lament the fact that they never got a break; Bronze Nazareth went and made his break, the saga continues… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bronze+Nazareth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.