Bronze is a name of at least six acts:

1) A Brooklyn, NY, USA band which aims for the swagger of T. Rex, who are musically influenced by New Order and Brian Eno. They débuted with "Bronze EP" (2011, self-released).

Though only on the NYC scene for a short while, they have shared the stage with: Cloud Nothings, Kisses, Free Energy and The Depreciation Guild.

Recorded in the their Grand St, Brooklyn studio, "Bronze EP" twists and turns through anthems like the EP's opener "Horses", to the mellow / atmospheric "Sunny Day". They recently raised money from fans through the KickStarter.com website, in order to produce a video for their single “Horses” (due early 2011).

Sites: Discogs and BronzeBrooklyn.com (official)

2) A San Francisco, CA, USA trio of electronics, drums and vocals. Members include: Rob Spector (vocals), Joe Oberjat (sampler, electronics) and Brian D. Hock (drums, triggers). They débuted with the single "Sides" (May 2009, Hobo Jungle) and their latest is So Weit, So Gut (Feb 2011, Rvng Intl. - on v/a "Re-Synthesist" aka Harald Grosskopf's "Synthesist / Re-Synthesist").

They bring pulsating hypnotizing synth grooves to the dance floor, but have more in common with German krautrock heroes Can, than disco-obsessed post-punk bands.

Other releases include the single "Bronze" (2009, Hex Grammofoonplaten) and "The Rouge Became" (Aug 2010, World Famous In San Francisco).

Sites: Discogs and MySpace

3) A Denver, CO, USA grunge / stoner rock band, which released "Bronze" (Apr 2009, Fist Music). Members include two from Core of the Earth: Bailey Cecil (lead vocals & guitar), Chris Garrow (lead guitar) - plus Slick Pigs Lie's Joaquin (drums) and Steve.

Sites: MySpace

4) A pseudonym of a Zagreb, Croatia artist who had his first contact with music at about ten years of age. He annoyed his parents (not to mention teachers in school) with constant slamming, stomping, making noise with the doors, cutlery and all the things that came to his hands.
He started out producing music in late '90s under influence of Pete Namlook, Geir Jennsen, autechre, Move D and many other artists. He was never limited to only one genre which reflected to his production. From chill over experimental to tech kinds of music he was always trying to give his songs a piece of himself. Which can be judged by listening to his works. By dedicating his life to multimedial art, specially music, BronZe could be described as a very creative person. Namely, besides music making, he is spending his free time doing web design, graphical art, songwriting etc. as well as working on realisation of his numerous enthusiastic ideas. 

Sites: Soundcloud

5) A pseudonym of singer-songwriter Paul Handyside was a founder member of eighties indie popsters Hurrah! who released several albums on Kitchenware and Arista records. In the nineties Handyside toured and recorded with friend and Kitchenware label-mate Martin Stephenson.  In 2001 Handyside formed alt-country/pop trio Bronze with Ade Evans on drums and Rob Tickell on bass. They released two albums, The statue in the stone in 2003 (The bus stop label) and A common prayer (Malady Music) in 2004.

Sites: MySpace

6) A Hechtel, Belgium band, four young men from the belgian countryside. they make instrumental rockmusic using electric bassguitars, guitars and drums. Sometimes taking you back to the 90's with melodic and often nervous loops and rythms. 

Jimmy Even: Incontinence, Atrial fFbrillation, Guitars 
Tom Vienne: Scale, Korsakov, Guitars, Bass 
Sven Cuypers:  Arthritis, Parkinson, Bass
Kevin Pavicevic: Diabesity, Orthostatic Hypotension, Drums

Sites: MySpace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bronze">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.