Brooklyn Bounce artist is a Progressive Trance / Techno band formed in Hamburg, Germany in 1996.
They are one of the most successful European dance acts. To date their success story includes four albums and 14 singles from 1996. For the past seven years they have been the most-booked German dance-live-act. Brooklyn Bounce have been nominated for the ECHO twice and for the COMET once. The band has received various gold and platinum records and has been on the charts in all the European countries. 
Brooklyn Bounce has become one of the most influential trance and techno acts over the last 12 years: all in all, they have sold 2.5 million singles and released 8 albums! Their spectacular comeback with “Bass, Beats and Melody” (top 3 and gold status with 330.000 sold CDs) in the year 2000 together with their 4th LP “Restart” were the peak of the career until now. Their latest releases such as the singles “Crazy”, “XIIX” and “Sex, Bass and Rock n’Roll” as well as the album “X-pect the Un-X-pected” caught up with their former success in many countries. Brooklyn Bounce produces real pure club sound and has been symbolising the german music export together with Scooter for more than 12 years now. Their music is present in nearly every country of the world; they received the german music award “Echo” twice and were nominated two times for the “Comet”; with several gold and platin awards Brooklyn Bounce is without a doubt one of the leading groups of the german techno scene. The band leader and producer of these “Dance Icons” is DJ Dennis “Bonebraker” Bohn. Dennis has grown up in a family with a musical background and has been playing the drums since he was 5 years old. His Rock Band C.Y.D. (Change Your Dealer) is still in existence today. In his function as Brooklyn Bounce DJ, he represents the more commercial, tough dance sound which comes very close to the pure Brooklyn Bounce Style: strong, martial, deep but nevertheless with a lot of melody. Diverse DJ-Sets in Autralia, Canada, USA and Japan, to name only some of them, show the popularity of his DJ-skills and the unmistakable, trendy sound of Brooklyn Bounce. René “Diablo” Behrens has performed all live techno shows with his own special style and has done so all over the world. His performances during the music shows “The Dome” and “The top of the Pops” have been very special moments that are still unforgetable. The frontman of the group, Diablo, known for his mystical shows, inspires not only his female fans but also creates with his tough and lashy voice the right atmosphere to send all people ready to party into ecstasy. The techno shows of Brooklyn Bounce which are supported by sexy dancers surely stand for successful and extraordinary shows of their own kind. The group went also with highspeed into the year 2008 ,the 12th year in the history of the Brooklyn Bounce !The first single of the forth coming album “X—FILES”,“THE THEME RECALL 08” was a huge success in Dance Charts and Clubs at the start of this year ! The next Recall-Single “GET READY TO BOUNCE RECALL 08” should do the same ! With a fantastic remix-package that includes mixes from all genres like Electro,Dance,Trance and Hardstyle should please every crowd around the globe !

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/brooklynbounceofficial#ixzz0zOIRNoRE


For many years Brooklyn Bounce was the cool Swedish Ulrica, the fiery Chilean Alexandra and the lively Diablo. And not to forget, the two masterminds and producers in the background, Dennis Bohn and Matthias Menck. But after many successful years and hundreds of performances together, Ulrica and Alexandra have decided to, starting in June, leave their work as singers and dancers in the band and pursue new endeavors. One switch already took place in Brooklyn Bounce when front man Damon left and Diablo enriched the dance formation. With the new formation, their success only increased and with 360,000 copies of the single “Bass, Beats & Melody” sold, rung in the second chapter of Brooklyn Bounce. 

Now the third success chapter for Brooklyn Bounce has started. Together with NESTLÉ SCHÖLLER and VIVA, in a nationwide casting action, two new singers and dancers were sought. A total of eight final contestants competed on VIVA to join the band. With the help of VIVA-viewers, the competition was won by 20-year-old Noreen from Berlin and 24-year-old Katie, a native of Australia, who lives Cologne. They have been the new Brooklyn Bounce girls since the beginning of September. Together with Diablo, they currently perform the new single “X2X (We Want More!)”, which will be released at the beginning of October. 

“After switching to our new record company Polydor, our new pieces are more progressive than ever, but at the same time also more song oriented and more Brooklyn Bounce than ever before. In the future we want to concentrate more on ourselves and our sound. The loyal fans are the best motor for that,” says Dennis Bohn about the upcoming Brooklyn Bounce album “X-pect the Un-X-pected!” (release date: September 2004). Together with Matthias Menck, Bohn is the mastermind behind the progressive house sensation from Hamburg, Brooklyn Bounce. With Matthias Menck he has to date produced, including the current releases, four albums and 14 Brooklyn Bounce singles, plus several special releases, hit compilations and so forth. “The third chapter of Brooklyn Bounce has started. We are happy about our new girls, Noreen and Katie, who together with Diablo will really excite the fans in the clubs,” promises Matthias Menck. And Diablo says, “Team spirit is really important for me. With Noreen and Katie we have found a strong, new line-up that the fans can expect a lot from – we want more!“ 

The official site now is underconstruction http://www.brooklynbounce.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brooklyn+Bounce">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.