John Jagos began recording under the name Brothertiger in Toledo, OH during the summer of 2009. He began recording electronic music in 2006 as Monoteque, an experimental project characterized by tribal beats and pulsing synthesizers. Influenced heavily by the electronic sound of Brian Eno and M83, along with the experimental characteristics of Animal Collective, Caribou, and Yeasayer, Jagos recorded many tracks throughout the final half of 2009. After he released the Apache Feathers EP on the Modicum of Silence net-label, he soon began work on the Vision Tunnels EP. Drawing heavily upon cassette-esque drum tracks and dream-like synths, Brothertiger combines the ethereal style of 80s new wave with the modern electro-dance sound. Like contemporaries Washed Out and Toro Y Moi, Brothertiger aims to capture the "carefree and woozy feelings of summer ease."

Now based in the heart of Brooklyn, Brothertiger has been a staple of modern synth pop for the past 4 years. Since starting the musical endeavor in 2009 in his bedroom in Ohio, John Jagos has received unanimous acclaim for his material from notable press such as Pitchfork, XLR8R, FADER, and more. He has had the pleasure of remixing and being remixed by countless artists, including Keep Shelly in Athens, FLASH/LIGHTS, Teen Daze, Blackbird Blackbird, A Million Years, Teeel, and more.

After releasing two EPs with crowd pleasing hits, Jagos signed to Mush Records in 2012 and released Golden Years, his first LP. With raving reviews from AllMusic, In Your Speakers, and Alternative Press, Brothertiger’s sound became known as “a chilled-out exploration of creator JohnJagos’ lush, lo-fi dance world.” After touring across Europe and the U.S. in the summer of 2012, Jagos returned to the studio to begin work on his second LP, Future Splendors, a more futuristic take on the synth pop sound Brothertiger has become known for.

With his second record on the horizon, and with a new live band to increase the energy for his shows, the future looks bright for Brothertiger. With his sound ever-evolving into the future, there’s no question that Brothertiger’s music will be staying with us for a long while.

Jagos released two albums—2012's Golden Years and Future Splendors in 2013—on electronic label Mush, which counts Bibio and Daedelus in its stable; in 2015, Jagos went full-on independent by self-releasing his third album, Out of Touch. Since then, he's busied himself with a Tears for Fears cover album (Brothertiger Plays: Tears for Fears' Songs from the Big Chair), 2019's A Chain of Islands EP, two instrumental albums (Fundamentals Vol. I & II) compiled from his bi-weekly livestreams, as well as 2020's Paradise Lost, his first studio full-length in five years. 

2021 is shaping up to be another prolific year for Jagos. New singles "Arizona," "Wallow" and "Dancer On The Water" showcase a poppier musical direction in contrast to the darker, more self-reflective temperaments of Paradise Lost. Jagos is emerging from a year of isolation with music best enjoyed in the company of others. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brothertiger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.