Brothers Of The Stone are Leaf Dog, BVA and Illinformed; a Hip Hop three piece unified by a strict set of music making beliefs and principles. And weed. Lots and lots of weed. Their mission statement is concise, true and clear – to reintroduce real Hip Hop to a scene so riddled with commercial dish water radio rap that it has become hard to see the underground through the mainstream sludge.

BVA and Leaf Dog make up the two lyrical legs of the BOTS tripod. They’ve been making music together since day dot. Their dedication to the UK Hip Hop cause is as passionate as you will ever find among the UK’s underbelly; day in and day out they strive to push the High Focus mantra forward with each and every verse they pen and every project they complete.

The third Brother Of The Stone is Illinformed; a producer who shares the very same musical sentiments as Leaf and BVA. His style of production is honest, potent and true. Need proof? Take some time to check any one of his previous collaborations with a long list of all star lyricists, including (but not limited to)…

Jedi Mind tricks
Ras Kass
Apathy
J Love

to name but a few.

Throw a stellar list of WORLD FAMOUS contributors into the BOTS mixing pot and what you are left with is an album of head nodding classic after head nodding classic. The Brothers of the Stone are a proclamation of real hip hop; just ask KRS-ONE, Vinnie Paz, Beast 1333, Reef the Lost Cause, High Focus head honcho Fliptrix or any member of the RLD Records family why they agreed to contribute to the release. To cut a long story short, they all share the same values and beliefs about the music they make.

Riddled with stories and tales, real observations and home truths, the Brothers Of The Stone are here to tell it how it is and at the same time target the rotten facets of the 21st century hip hop machine.

Most cogs are rusted but some cogs are still golden. Look no further than the Brothers Of The Stone’s eponymous debut album to witness one spinning in full effect! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brothers+of+the+Stone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.