Brotha Lynch Hung (born Kevin Mann) is an MC and producer from Sacramento, CA who began rapping at 13. Lynch Hung's lyrics are notorious for featuring highly explicit themes, including murder, rape and cannibalism. Lynch Hung debuted with the 1993 album 24 Deep, which featured stories of the struggles involved with being affiliated with a local street gang in Sacramento's "Garden Blocc." Lynch Hung has also helped Master P with albums like I'm Bout It, E-40's Southwest Riders and Mr. Serv-On's Life Insurance. Lynch's first known work is his production for X-Raided's "Niggas In Blacc" (91) and the callaboration album "Nigga Deep" with Triple Sicx Bounty, released in 1992 and re-released in 1998.

Brotha Lynch Hung has been described as the creator of the "horrorcore rap genre", and has sold 1.4 million cds independently. His rapping style has been described as smooth and quickly delivered.

Some listeners argue that Lynch Hung's 24 Deep album defines his musical style, but Lynch Hung has said in interviews and online forums that it does not.

Lynch Hung's second album Season of Da Siccness in 1995 proved to be the one of the most gruesome and mysogynistic Gangsta Rap albums ever released, graphically chronicling a life of drug use and sale, promiscuity, ultra-violence, rape, infanticide, and supposed cannibalism. This is Lynch's most commercially successful album, as it has now achieved gold album sales status.

Lynch Hung's lyrics are described as sicc -- having the same meaning as the word sick but utilizing the double "C" which is characteristic of local Crip gangsters (loccs) in Sacramento, CA and other parts of California. Lynch has stated in his song "24 Gone" that he himself is a Crip, residing in Crip areas of Sacramento has had an influence on his lyrics. He has been in gang confrontations, and he was shot once. He describes his real life experiences in his lyrics. He has since released Loaded in 1997. The next Lynch album was released in 2000 called EBK4 after a dispute with Black Market Records. The label allegedly restricted his creativity by featuring artists on the album against Lynch's will. Lynch asked his fans not to buy the album. He said "I don't care how they get it just don't buy it or steal it". Brotha Lynch released the DVD of Now Eat in 2000, which features a bloodthirsty and cannibalistic Lynch who goes on a rampage, killing and eating many people.

Lynch released Blocc Movement and Virus in 2001, Appearances: Book 1 in 2002, and in that same summer of 2002 he released his first DVD, Plague. Lynch's newer work includes Lynch by Inch: Suicide Note and Uthanizm in 2003, and the Now Eat DVD in 2000. In 2006 he released a collaboration with rapper MC Eiht entitiled "The New Season."

In May 2009, Mann signed a three album deal with Midwest rapper Tech N9ne's Strange Music label. In March 2010, he released his Strange Music debut, Dinner and a Movie, selling around 7,000 copies during its first week. His second Strange album, Coathanga Strangla, was released a year later in April 2011, and his third album with Strange Music, Mannibalector was released on February 5, 2013. The Horror-inspired trilogy told a fictional story of a crazed cannibalistic serial killer, struggling with life, family and the urge to kill. Each album debuted on the Billboard 200, and featured acts such as Snoop Dogg, Yelawolf, Hopsin and Tech N9ne among others. Following the release of the third album, Strange Music offered Mann a contract extension to keep him on the label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brotha+Lynch+Hung">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.