In their their words: When your house party gets a write up in the LA weekly, you know you’re doing something right. Overflowing with young, pretty Silverlake scenesters, thugged-out hip hoppers and Los Angeles’ finest law enforcement officers, the most recent RabbitTusk party hosted by Brother Reade was probably deemed a highlighted success. However this rambunctious aftermath seems to be a near weekly occurrence and when you do get to share the stage supporting the Wu-Tang Clan, I can only imagine how the vocal swagger of Ghostface, confidence of the Method Man an positivity of the RZA must rub off on you and in turn, your peers an fellow party people. Currently in the studio recording the album “Rap Music” you’ll be forgiven if you missed any of their previous limited run releases.
So what the hell do Brother Reade sound like? Well, funnily enough, kinda similar to their appearance. Rapper Major Jamz is an intimidating fellow. A tattooed, thickset dude with a deep southern drawl and an air of intelligence means his rhymes are easy on the ear but heavily scattered with Rewind! What the fuck? moments. The experienced hustler meets playful showman. DJ and producer Bobby Evans is the skinnier studio hound who still kills it on the live circuit. Wide-rimmed Cazals and striped polos, he brings the lope, swagger and bump from the Dirty South with the science and alchemy of leftfield electronica. In the words of Sqeak E.Clean, producer of the last Yeah Yeah Yeah’s album, “[Evans] is the illest, his beats don’t sound like anyone else. A true original thinker.” And before you start thinking Brother Reade are jumping on the Southern hip hop wagon, Los Angeles is their adopted home, both grew up in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, so you know they’ve got ears for that stripper club bounce and love for the independent game. “If you can get as hot as you can on your own, do it. You’ll be better off (or just better period) in the long run. " This means alot from a group who's pushed over 30,000 units out of the trunk. In today's climate of low sales and high downloads, this amounts to much indusrty interest. And record labels are currently circling like sharks. 

www.brotherreade.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brother+Reade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.