Brown Brigade is a reggae influenced heavy metal band created by former Sum 41 guitarist Dave "Brownsound" Baksh, after leaving the band in May 2006.
The current members are: Dave "Brownsound" Baksh, (vocals/guitar), Vaughn Lal (bass/backing vocals), Johnny Owens (drums), Chuck Coles (guitar), and Cess Rock (live percussion).

Dave Baksh, ex guitar player of Canadian pop-punk band Sum 41, formed Brown Brigade as a side-project with his cousin Vaughn Lal in 2003. The existence of the band was brought into the spotlight on Thursday, May 11, 2006 when Baksh announced he would be leaving Sum 41 to focus his full attention on Brown Brigade. Baksh noted several reasons as to why he left Sum 41, in an interview with MTV published on June 8th, 2006. He stated that he was displeased with how Sum 41 was being treated by the music industry, and said he wasn't able to focus enough on simply playing music. He also noted that he found Sum 41's music relatively easy to play, while also noting he did not mean to insult their music. Brown Brigade will have a classic metal sound, which is the music that Baksh has been longing to write and play since childhood. The music of the band is expected to be comparable to the sound of Iron Maiden, says Baksh.

According to an article by the Rolling Stone in May 2006, Brown Brigade recruited bassist Vaughn Lal (Dave's cousin), drummer Johnny Owens, guitarist Craig "The Craigulator" Pattison (Dave's guitar tech with Sum 41).

Dave Baksh also stated that the band will have their own mascot much like Iron Maiden with Eddie the Head and Megadeth with Vic Rattlehead. According to Baksh the mascot will resemble a brown knight.
The band signed to Aquarius Records in September 2006.
The website was recently updated with the band's new logo and the EP title "Appetizer for Destruction", a reference to the Guns N' Roses album "Appetite for Destruction".
In February 2007 Baksh announced in a blog post on MySpace that the recording of the album is done and he will go down to LA in March to help mix the album, which will have 13 songs.
On July 5th a new song was released by a website to promote the band and the site's launch, the song being the Iron Maiden classic "Hallowed Be Thy Name".

Brown Brigade's debut album was released September 18, 2007 and is called "Into The Mouth of Badd(d)ness".

As of September 2007, guitarist Chuck Coles, formerly of Cauterize, was also playing with the band, after the dismissal of guitarist Craig Pattison. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brown+Brigade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.