Brutal Hand was originally founded as a cover band called “Minds Eye”. In October of “2000” the lineup was complete with the addition of Brad Bowles and Doug Collier. The band experienced a successful run as a cover band tackling the “more technical” songs from bands such as “Dream Theater” and “Rush”. In the summer of “2002” Brutal Hand decided to concentrate on originals. With 3 already under their belts (The Hour, Focus, and currently unreleased song called Need to Know), we started hammering out the tracks for our first CD. We all kicked around a million band names, wrote a dozen tunes, and in the summer of “2003” began recording our self titled debut release Brutal Hand. The 12 tracks were all recorded, and mixed in our rehearsal studio. The final mix was sent to CD Marksman in Tempe AZ for the final touch. Once the disk was mastered, it was placed in the hands of Tony from New Leaf Optical, and was rushed to our door.
The CD was exclusively released in the summer of “2004”to an eager welcoming crowd at our release party in Tower Records Denver Colorado which was a glaring success. The employees at Tower Records, Cherry Creek were blown away by the fan turn out. According to our sources at Tower, we broke, and still hold the record for attendance previously held by the Blues Brothers for a single night release. We also broke the record for the most CDs sold under a six month consignment contract. And we finished the month of June as the #1 seller for the Cherry Creek store, beating out all the national major label artists. This was much more than we could have ever asked for when we started this band, but it’s not the end, not by a long shot.
Since June “2004” we have been playing our asses off building a loyal following outside of our own immediate family and friends. Our CD has made it into the hands of tons of fans world wide. The reviews have been incredible in America and in many countries in Europe, due to true diversity of the songs contained in the CD; there is something for all kinds of hard rock and metal fans alike. The typical comparisons are to Queensryche, Dream Theater, and Savatage...ect. So I guess you would classify this disk as progressive hard rock, or progressive metal. This classification is fine with us since our major influences are all the above mentioned bands.

Chapter 2 begins...

Over the last two years, we have been forced to find a new lead vocalist as Brad has left the band to raise a family. As it turns out this has been to our advantage. The promise of Brutal Hand to us and our fans has doubled. Finding Freddy Ferrell in “2006” has been a blessing for the band and our sound. The band finished in the studio: Rocky Mountain Recorders in July, 06. We sent the final cuts to Tony and Chris at New Leaf Optical for reproduction and received the final product in October, 06. Now the band sets out to take the world by the chains with an even more powerful sound. We hope to see you on the road in the years to come.

“Be Brutal” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brutal+Hand">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.