Stefanie, Stijn and Peter teamed up to start Brutus in 2013. They all met while playing in different bands from the same region of Leuven (Belgium). In merging their different ideas and musical tastes they have formed a strong union, both musically and personally.

Drummer vocalist Stefanie mixes black-metal blast beats with math-rock flourishes whilst belting out the most impassioned vocals, shifting from deceptively melodic to out-right larynx-punishing in the blink of an eye. Guitarist Stijn Vanhoegaerden takes ethereal post-rock tones to hardcore punk levels of speed and energy aside Peter Mulders powerful sub-frequency shifts. It’s the way in which the band mixes post-rock construction, metal dynamics with hardcore energy and prog rock all the while lacing it with pure pop melodies that make Brutus’ sound so unique and all their own.

Brutus’ debut album BURST (2017) was released by Hassle Records in UK and Europe, and then later by Sargent House for USA and the rest of the World. In 2017- 2018 they have toured extensively all over Europe, playing many large festivals as well as direct support to Russian Circles, Thrice and Chelsea Wolfe on their European tours.

With a new album slated for release in early 2019, they are ready for more. Trouble comes in threes, so does Brutus.


The band finished recording their debut-full-length Burst in Vancouver, Canada with producer / kindred spirit Jesse Gander. This made them popular in there homecountry and led to sold-out club shows in 2017.


There are other bands with the same name:

- 2, a hardcore band from Asturias, Spain.

Formed in June 2008, Brutus gave their first show one month later. From then onwards Brutus has released a self-titled EP in July 2009, recorded at KTC Domestic Productions which was presented in numerous places, mainly in the north of Spain, sharing stage with bands like For the Glory or Avenues and Silhouettes. Brutus has announced that they will release a new work in February 2012. We don't know the title yet, but it is taken for granted that this new album will please all their fans.


- 3, a butterfingered, groovy and psychedelic hard rock from Norway

After countless evenings and nights in front of, and around, the bar counter. After long, fiery discussions about the first Sabbath-album, endless arguments over what the best work of Hendrix is, and how everything just sounded so much better before - these guys felt the time was right to take matters into their own hands.
 
Three bearded swedes and two norwegians immediately started to deep-dive into their own private collections of LPs and thus the conception of a musical journey, unpreceded - ever before, or after, for that matter - was in process.
 
One song soon turned into six and it all climaxed in a smokin' "California Jam" at Garage in Oslo.
A concert that still is, to this day, remembered - and surely has gone into the history books following the excellent review it picked up in Eternal Terror Webzine. Thus, more is still to come from these true successors of the seventies - here, there and all across the country!
 
Inspiration is drawn from amongst others: Blue Cheer, Cream, Pentagram and Grand Funk Railroad. In other words: butterfingered, groovy and psychedelic hard rock! So bring forth your bellbottoms and wide lapels....Rock N' Roll is lovely, isent it?!

Contact:
www.myspace.com/brutusband
brutus@online.no

- 4, a brutal death metal band from the Netherlands

In 2000 the gruesome foursome was initiated by Ploegbaas (drums) and Bastærd (vox/guitars) to establish a rejuvenated brand of Hyper Agressive Deathmetal with an unearthly definition of 'heavy'. Soon after the initial rehearsals Molestrator (vox/bass) and Schoft (vox/guitars) joined to complete the first incarnation of the Steamroller. For every reason imaginable Molestrator was discharged and replaced by Ploert. With his vocal and bottom end eruptions the infamous Brutus Promo was unleashed in 2001 resulting in a recording agreement with Unique Leader Records. 

In 2002 the debut album Slachtbeest was recorded in Excess studios and upon its release Brutus embarked on an extensive European tour with Macabre and Cephalic Carnage. Soon after this endeavor, Bastærd announced his retirement from death metal. Meanwhile 'Slachtbeest' was getting killer reviews in the media worldwide. Bastaerd completed the set of gigs the band had before being replaced by Vlerk. In September of 2005 Brutus went on yet another European adventure, touring over three weeks with fellow Unique Leader artists Mortal Decay and Beheaded, as well as doing tons of local shows opening for the likes of Nile, Vader and Suffocation. 

When Brutus was in the middle of the recordings for the highly anticipated follow up Murwgebeukt/TotalLoss, Ploegbaas, who had been struggling with his inner demons, decided to end his time on earth. Since then the band has had a hard time getting to grips with the fact that the fuel had gushed from the machine. "We feel we've caught up with life and can finally keep our promise. The time to finish what we started has come...".
 Myspace

- 5, czech agro-metal band
 official homepage <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Brutus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.