Formed in 1994 on a diet of tea and biscuits in the arm pit of the UK know to some as East Yorkshire! Founders Richard Steels (vocals, guitar, bass) and Jonathan Rushforth ( Drums, who later went on to join Gorerotted and form Grindethic Records) got together in a disused pig stye to create a combination of death metal/grindcore.
In 1995 Brutal Insanity released their first demo tape into the underground. The titled demo "Immobilize" featured 5 tracks of strong thrashy sounding grindcore. At the time the additional members were Gareth Jenkinson (now in ZU2) on guitar and Keith Frayne aka Doozer on Bass. Immobilize was soon replaced by their 2nd release to come out of the Warren Recording studio in Hull 1996. "Beyond the point of anger" was the titled demo and it displayed a distinctive progression in the bands style. At this point in the bands career the current guitarist and vocalist Rich Steels picked up the bass replacing Doozer and the band took on there newest member and lead guitarist Jamie Graham. 
With the new shift in the bands line up and the additional influence from Jamie, Brutal Insanity matured in sound and became more extreme pushing their boundaries releasing their 3rd Demo "sick perversions" in 1997. Sick Perversions was the first demo tape from Brutal Insanity that gave the band the recognition they deserved in the underground. The Demo not only increased their UK popularity offering gigs nation wide but also gave the band international notoriety and an increasing fan base worldwide.
1998 saw Brutal Insanity's first CD demo appear titled "Smash Hits" This CD featured previous tracks from Sick Perversions re-written with included 2 new tracks "chopping Spree" and a re-recording from "Beyond the point of anger" "Religious Inveigle". Not only was this CD their first pro-sounding recording to date it also featured a new member and friend of the band at the time Marcus Hanson (plastic carcass) who replace Gareth guitar. With Marcus's fresh inspirational injection into the bands sound, both Marcus and Jamie began to write remarkable sounding riffs that forged the defining sound of Brutal Insanity. 
Whilst the band continued to progress Marcus's brother and talented bassist Tim Hanson began to jam with the band and it wasn't long until Rich stepped down from bass to concentrate solely on vocals allowing Tim to become the new bassist. 
This collaboration of talented musicians all focused on creating extreme and fresh sounding death metal resulted in the band writing and recording their first and sadly last Album in 1999 entitled "society kill catalyst" The album was the defining sound of Brutal Insanity and featured a guest appearance from "Schodingers Cat" (now known as jacq sporadic) who later joined the band after Jamie Graham left due to internal and musical politics.
With the replacement of Jamie with "schodinger" both Marcus, Tim and Schodinger worked closely to write the bands last and most highly regarded mini CD "themanonthefloorwasbeggingforhislifethegunmanansweredwithtwoshotstothebackofhishead". The mini CD was released as a split with US Band Drogheda and contained 8 bonus live tracks from one of the bands last live gig at the all day Extinction Agenda Festival in Milton Keynes on May 2000.

Brutal Insanity were often an under estimated band due to their non traditional appearance that would see dedicated death metal fans heading for the door. The affect didn't last for long as the crowd would soon return to the pit once the band began to play.

Brutal Insanity split up in 2001 and members Schodinger, Rich, Marcus, Jamie and Tim went onto form the short lived Jazz/grind band Example 3. Drummer Jonathan Rushforth went on to focus on his other band at the time Gorerotted and later became the drummer in many other bands to date including Detrimentum, Infected Disarray, Hades Lab and many more. Vocalist Rich hoped to find another band to join after the split in 2001 but to date is still searching and perfecting his vocal sound. Guitarist Marcus is content writing electronica under the name of Plastic Carcass. Schodingers Cat also went on to focus on his passion of electronic and is known as Jacq sporadic. Jamie Graham is still writing and hopes to reform the band but with little enthusiasm from the other previous members.

Recently talks to reform have been initiated and the band is currently working on an EP which they hope to release in early 2010. The current line up will feature, Jamie Graham, Marcus Hanson, Tim Hanson and Rich Steels. The band is currently looking for a drummer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/brutal+insanity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.