There are three artists named Bueno: 1.) a Staten Island indie rock band; 2.) a Sacramento rapper; and 3.) an Arizona punk band. 

1.) Bueno lead man Luke Chiaruttini first met Mikey Gagliardi, who plays guitar and sax, on a bus ride home from Catholic school. Mikey threw his shoe at Luke’s head, and then kindly asked for Luke to give it back. It was one of the many quiet rebellions that Mikey, Luke, Joe Imburgio (bass), AJ Pantaleo (drums), and Mike DiBenedetto (guitar) would engage in throughout their adolescent years growing up and fucking up in Staten Island. Whether sneaking in underage for rock shows at the now­defunct Martini Red, or journeying to the middle­ of ­nowhere Staten Island to play packed shows, the guys of Bueno know music at their home base can be an uneven struggle. Yet the borough holds a quiet abundance of creative energy that has pushed Bueno to be as enterprising as any other act throughout the five boroughs. 

The band may be done with throwing shoes, but Bueno’s 2015 full length debut, Guilt (out now on Babe City Records), is infused with that same sort of controlled mutiny. The songs are tugged in all manner of direction by the disparate influences that the band mates collected between the high jinks of their Richmond County adolescence. A funky bass line turns on a dime to give hints of post­punk; breakneck guitar riffs journey into fuzzed out distortion only to be abruptly replaced by a jazz sax solo on the following track. Each track bubbles with unpredictability, which might be expected when some songs were devised mere minutes before Bueno hit record. It’s a well­known secret that Bueno has a penchant for improvisation, and would rather play covers of their own songs than put on an airtight live show. But the frenzy is always anchored by the understated spoken­word vocals of Chiaruttini, who writes songs of the guilt, misdirection, and yearning that come from an Italian-American Catholic upbringing such as theirs. Sounding as assed out as the best of them on the Island, Chiaruttini rattles off a wandering array of matter­of­fact goings on – the local Burger King opening and closing, driving in circles and going nowhere, plodding through just another night on the town. No matter the subject, Bueno resists the pull of their neighboring and more populous boroughs to create rock that could only come from the shores of Staten Island.

2.) He hails from Sacramento California. He goes by the name of BUENO. He was raised in the mean streets of South Sacramento in the Meadowview Carella Gardens Low Income Housing. This future Hip-Hop extraordinaire has been perfecting his craft for over a decade. Nothing could stop this lyricist from his one true love, Hip-Hop. Former high school basketball superstar and college graduate, BUENO could no longer ignore his identity in the entertainment business.

In 2001 BUENO formed Noyz Music Group with Michael “Yogi” Stewart, George Foreman Jr. and now Co-CEO Lavega Sims. Noyz Music Group continues to work aggressively to get BUENO’s music heard around the world. BUENO’s approach to music is to help open the eyes of the masses to the realities of those people who struggle with inner city life. It is their stories and personal experiences which drives his aggressive approach and his determination to bring Hip Hop back to its purest form. He credits his musical influences as being 2Pac, NWA, Scarface, Slick Rick, Biggie and Run DMC.

By 2003, the buzz about BUENO had created a strong following in the Northern California area. His first nationally distributed project, Change The Game (NMG), dropped in 2003. It featured fellow Northern California Hip-Hop icons such as E-40, Keak Da Sneak, and the late great Mac Dre. It was considered an instant regional classic. BUENO has opened up for acts like David Banner, Rick Ross, K-CI and JoJo, Mac Dre, Xzibit, Jaheim, E40, Suga Free, Keak Da Sneak and others.

He has had much success in the mixtape phenomenon and can be heard on compilations such as Exclusive Mixtape Collector’s Edition Vol. I, I Love This Game Mixtape Collector’s Edition Vol. II, Gunz-N-Butta Mixtape Collector’s Edition Vol. III, and Welcome to Mackramento Mixtape Collector’s Edition Vol. IIII. The Sacramento B project was released Spring of 2007 and featured The Federation, San Quinn, and Atlantic recording artist Mistah F.A.B. Stay tuned for his highly anticipated NMG/SMC/Fontana Distribution worldwide debut, "Cant Knock The Hustle", coming in 2009.

With quality production, the support of his loyal fans and his consistent commitment to music, this lyricist is sure to be the next big thing in Hip-Hop.             


3.) There is also a punk band named Bueno, from Prescott, Arizona. 

Bueno released two albums - 1999's Finding Humor in the Tragedy and 2000's Nothing New For Trash Like You - on Volcom Records. Singer, guitarist and songwriter Brian Gianelli tragically drowned in December 2004. 

In 2009, Volcom reissued Nothing New For Trash Like You, with three new songs credited to All Autonomy, the name the band began using after drummer Chris Ozuna joined.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bueno">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.