Buffalo Daughter is a Japanese rock group formed in 1993 in Tokyo. The three main members are suGar Yoshinaga (ex-Havana Exotica) on guitar, Yumiko Ohno (ex-Havana Exotica) on bass, and MoOog Yamamoto on turntables and graphic design. The group originally had a drummer, Chika Ogawa, but after her departure they've had no permanent drummer and have hired different people to fill in as needed. In addition, the band is well known for using a number of electronic instruments, such as the TB-303, TR-606, Minimoog, shortwave radio, etc.

Though less well-known to most of the world than bands such as Pizzicato Five or Cibo Matto, Buffalo Daughter is considered to be the linchpin of the so-called "cut-and-paste" rock Shibuya-kei (Wikipedia) movement from Japan. The band had its beginnings in the early 1990s signed to independent Japanese label Cardinal. Seeking wider exposure, they continued under the Beastie Boys' now-defunct music label Grand Royal, bringing their discography up to a total of four full-length album releases, an EP, and a handful of remixes. The band's style, always a variety grab-bag of different sounds and genres, evolved slowly but surely into a more cohesive and restrained melodic style. In 2002, Buffalo Daughter released their fifth full-length effort, I, in the United States on Los Angeles-based label Emperor Norton Records.

According to band member Ohno, "We call ourselves Buffalo Daughter because our sound is very strong. And the buffalo is strong." In a 1998 interview, the group explained that "Buffalo" projects a pleasing image of American culture and countryside and at the time of the group's original formation, all the members were girls, so "Daughter" was appropriate. Also, the sound of name itself appeals to the group.

It was announced that in 2006 Buffalo Daughter would collaborate with pop-star Ami Suzuki. They released the single "O.K. Funky God" together on February 28, 2007, and it was later included on Suzuki's Connetta album.

www.buffalodaughter.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Buffalo+Daughter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.