There have been at least 6 bands under name Bulldozer:

1) Bulldozer is an Italian speed/thrash/proto-black metal band formed in 1980. Their music was frequently referred to as Italy's answer to Venom, and on the strength of their debut album, 1985's "Day Of Wrath" (produced by Algy Ward of Tank), it's easy why this was the case. Alberto Contini's bass and vocals both strongly resembled his Venom counterpart Cronos, and the band's messy Satanic pre-thrash metal was indeed quite similar to Venom's first couple of albums. They survived for a few more years and released three more albums that no doubt diverged from the Venom sound, but for right or wrong, they never really managed to escape the Venom clone tag and never got above cult status. They split-up in 1992. They decided to start up again in 2008 and is currently working on a new album.

2) Finnish Traditional Heavy Metal band formed in 1996 and split-up around 2002.
3) Croatian Heavy Metal band formed in 2001.
4) French punk band in the late 70s.
5) Spanish punk band formed in 2001
6) Dutch Hands Up formation
7) Australian stoner metal/rock band

Finnish Bulldozer:
Was project of guitarist Kim Högberg (who later sung in Helion), bassist Ville Lehtinen and singer Jarkko Ahola (ex-Dreamtale, Teräsbetoni). They had numerous drummers around, for example Heikki Malmberg who was also their last, as the band disbanded after he left to Diablo in 2002. They released 2 demos, "Bulldozer" and "Love/Hate". Their website (in Finnish) containing free samples: http://www.jahola.com/bulldozer.com/.

French Bulldozer:
2 albums "J’suis punk" 1978 and "Des gamelles et des bidons" 1979, with members from Martin Circus

Spanish Bulldozer:
Bulldozer is a 5-man Street Punk band formed in Barcelona, Spain in 2001. They played live for six years before releasing their debut album On The Blacklist featuring 11 tracks and 12 songs (one hidden). The band is signed by the German label United Kids Records and has an official MySpace profile where they describe their influences as "Basically early British Punk and Oi!, American Punk Rock and Hardcore, some old Rock&Roll, Dutch Oi-Core, a bit of Country and Folk stuff, and too many sleepless nights."

Australian Bulldozer:
The Australian band were described as "Stoner Metal/Rock", and hailed from Brisbane (QLD), Australia. They formed in 1992 and are currently split up. The last known line-up for the Australian Bulldozer was:
Tony Nunns (vocals, keyboards, guitar)
Mick Gottle (bass, keyboards)
Shane Dowsett (guitar)
Steve Pope (drums)
Pete Heywood (guitar)
This band had their song "Nutting" featured on the Triple J Thirteen: Mind Over Metal compilation. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Bulldozer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.