It is around the end of the 90s. Niemi and Turunen are having a conversation about their mutual views for music arriving at the same conclusion to set up a band. The feverish search for training premises begins. A place was found surprisingly fast. Still should get a couple of guys along. A drummer and a bassist were missing.

A man called Kohonen said he's interested in a drummer's job and Friberg was caught up for a bass. Therefore the band was set up. We started with some cover songs until we noticed that we had riffs from our own pockets as well. After few sessions Kohonen suddenly sais his time is limited and he packed his drums. Obviously trash-based banging didn't pleasure him. No problem. Niemi knew a man called Tokoi and asked if he'd be interested in a drummer's task. Almost at the same time the bassist Friberg vanished mystically. However, we got along a man we've known for a long time, Heimonen, so action continued. The band also needed a singer. Niemi takes the job in addition to guitar playing. On that time the band was known by the name Painfilter.

A couple years zipped by nicely by training and creating new material, until the time comes up for Turunen. Man's job for the next days was to serve in army and therefore he looses touch on playing. It's a time to mix the package. Tokoi takes the guitar and a hunt for a new drummer begins. After few candidates a suitable man was found.

Nissinen takes the job and the action goes on. It's the year 2000. The band makes the first demo. Recording equipment were rent from the local music store and a studio was build in our training room. The demo didn't get much public feedback and feedback from other sources was also quite poor cause the demo wasn't very special.

Thus the band concentrated on making new songs. Doing gigs was also in mind. The name of the band was changed as well into Burden. After few quiet moments we went to the studio to make our second demo. This took place in the year 2003. The demo containing two songs was a bit better than the previous one. After all it was produced by the professional in the real studio. The feedback was more of less good and public feedback was also given.

In 2005 the name of the band Burden was extended with letters, A.D., because a band called Burden already exist in Vancouver, Canada. A good band, though.

At that point a shot in the arm was useful. Niemi stepped aside from the singer's role and Mutta (Hatetrend), the angry man from Vantaa, joined the band. We prepared four songs and went to the studio to record a promo CD called Salvation.

The record got a warm reception in media and in audience. Live performances were also coming. But next the drummer let us know he didn't have enough time and interest for the band. Mutta was also very busy with his own band (Hatetrend) and his work. Once again we were back to square one. However, we didn't give up and it was rewarded after a while. New blood was running in Burden A.D. A drummer's place was filled by Pietil채 and a man from Riihim채ki, called Dude, was devoted for the microphone. Finally we found Karhap채채 for bass and team was fulfilled <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burden+A.D.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.