There are several artists under the name of Burden:
1) A thrash metal band from Finland
2) A sludge metal band from Germany
3) A Canadian band playing hardcore
4) An American crossover band
5) An experimental drone/folk/metal artist
6) An experimental noise artist(s) from Bristol, UK. 
_____


1) Burden is a finnish thrash metal metal band. It was founded in autumn 2008. Sami (bass guitar/vocals) and Henkka (rhythm guitar) phoned Matias (drums) so they could form a band. Later Henkka asked Otto (lead guitar) to join the band, and he did. After they had composed some songs of their own, they practiced hard and went to the studio. A week later they released their first demo called ''Burden''. Burden got a new drummer called Tuomas during the autumn 2009. Burden released a new EP titled Thrash Invasion in the end of May. 

2) Burden is a german sludge metal band, slow and heavy riffs and sharp grungy vocals are their trademarks. After an 2 track 7" vinyl release throughout Ván Records / Soulfood Music called "Man Of No Account" they are currently touring Europe and working on their full lenght debut album. For further information visit http://www.myspace.com/listentoburden

3) Formed in the spring of 1997, by founding members Jason Kolins(vocals), Sean Spear & Mike Orpen(guitars) and Mark Thomson(bass), to put together a fast, heavy, outspoken Straight Edge Hardcore band, with a personal, sincere and positive message. Although Burden started at a time when the Hardcore scene in Vancouver was all but dead, they (along with Dissent and Reserve 34), kept the small, but dedicated scene alive for years, continually building up and strengthening the foundation, for what the now thriving Vancouver scene, is built upon today. Playing locally constantly, and throughout the NorthWest and abroad, to establish their name, Burden was the first Straight Edge band from Vancouver, to make a mark outside of their hometown. In the seven years Burden was a band, they toured throughout Western Canada, did three Western USA tours, and two European tours, sharing the stage with many great bands like Trial, Strain, Bane, Ten Yard Fight, Fastbreak, Buried Alive, Reach The Sky, Built To Last, Commited, Brothers Keeper, One King Down, Carry On, Hoods, Shutdown, Throwdown, Eighteen Visions, Embrace Today, Himsa, Spirit 84, Poison The Well, Purification, Between Us, Unconquered, Caliban, Maximum Penalty, Built To Last, Countervail, Liar, Bleed Into One, Teamkiller. Black Friday '29, Downslide, Dead Scene Stars, Congress etc... Aside from appearing on numerous compilations world wide, the band had five releases, the "Chosen Path" demo tape in '97, the "Strength Of Conviction" CD and 7" in 1999, the "Vancouver Meets Kentucky" split CD with Automatic, as well as the bands only full length "If You Don't Stand For Something, You'll Fall For Anything" (12"/CD), which was released in 2001 on Germany's Dead Serious Recordings in Europe and Spawner Records in Canada. Burdens final release was the five song 7"/CDEP "With Every Step Forward", again on Dead Serious Recordings, which corresponded with Burden's final European tour in September 2003. Burdens final show took place in the bands hometown of Vancouver, Canada, on Saturday, March 13, 2004, with Go It Alone, Dead Sure, Dead In Hollywood and In Stride. The members of Burden have went onto other projects. Adam and Dave Mitchell and Jason Kehoe, played in BLUE MONDAY full time, along with fellow ex-Burden bassist Kyle Deville. Sean Spear played guitar in ICE COLD , which also featured original Burden bassist Mark Thomson, as well as playing in a rock band called COBRA QUEEN. Other ex-mambers have gone onto some awesome bands as well. Lucas Mcfadden went onto play drums for CARRY ON and GO IT ALONE, and Aram Arslanian, who filled in on guitar for numerous shows for Burden, played in Seattle's CHAMPION and BETRAYED. Due to the fact that some members were well into their late twenties and early thirties, doubled with wives, kids, school, careers and a revolving door of members, and though they hit the road as much as possible, Burden was never able to tour constantly, as much as other bands, thus never really getting the chance to make nearly as big of an impact, outside of the Northwest and Europe.  Though it's been over five years, since their final show, the Burden legacy lives on through the music, the words and the message, which, unlike many bands after their demise, their conviction still holds proud, and strong today... TRUE UNTIL THE END XXX (read less)

4) Burden is a 3-piece DIY crossover band formed late 2008 in New Brunswick, NJ, combining elements of hardcore punk d-beat, old death metal, and thrash. They utilize extremely down-tuned instruments and play at ear-piercing volumes. Burden (NJ) has been self-releasing EP's and demos periodically every few months since their first demo "Shadows Over New Brunswick" released January 09; some of the releases include Speedcrush, Atomic Purple, The First Seven Months (comp), and The Hits. This band is unconcerned with profit or spreading their name past word of mouth, as a result, all distribution of their material is somewhat limited. 

5) Burden is an ever changing lineup with two main members: Cal Beaney and Simon Doling (of Terminal Cheesecake). They create drone-based music in EAI, folk, metal and noise. To listen see burdendrone.bandcamp.com

6) Burden, Burden Imprint released an album on https://lifeofburden.bandcamp.com/album/burden-burden in Oct 2018 and on a hot pink cassette. Granular specks, machine noise, and subsumed electronics merge for this first release: 
1.  Attack Slow Bleach 
2. Hitroll Beat Heart Pt I 
3. The Hand That Gives
4. [THrEE] 
5. Vicarious
6. BT - Ghost Dad 
7. Bt + Greef - Outro 
8. The Banality Of Modern Life 
TAGs: electronic, bass music, edits, electronica, noise <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.