Formed in 2001,Greek black metal band Burial Hordes was conceived from the evil intent of founding members Nightspirit and N.e.c.r.o. Using their musical expression to vent their philosophy and extreme negative energies, the concept of Burial Hordes was unleashed upon the world. At this time the band self-released their demo CD entitled "Entering the Untrodden Forest", which was a homemade recording. Live concerts followed, and after two years a second demo CD called “Mors Luminis” was released with the line-up of: NightSpirit on vocals, N.e.c.r.o on guitars/bass, Psychaos on guitars/bass, and Erevos on drums. Both demos were released in cult tape by Nigra Mortis Records.

In 2004 Cthonos became the new voice of Burial Hordes and Impaler took the place behind the drums. Along with the addition of the two new members came a new, and darker hateful vision. Shortly after,Burial Hordes recorded a promo release with two tracks, entitled “Bestial Bloodwar”. This material was also used for the split release "Total Gathering of Supremacy" with Eschaton. 

Near the end of 2005 Burial Hordes recorded their debut album, “War Revenge and Total Annihilation”. Ten tracks of aggressive old school black metal with no compromises. Oath Records & Asphyxiate Recordings released the CD version, while Atolinga Records pressed the tape edition. 

In 2008 Burial Hordes signed with Pulverized Records. The label re-pressed the “War, Revenge and Total Annihilation” debut in a special digipack CD edition. At this time, the group also recorded 8 new old school black metal tracks, and their 2nd album called “Devotion to Unholy Creed” was released under the banner of Pulverised Records.

By mid 2009 the band recorded 2 tracks for the 4-way split release of "Secta Nova" which was released in 2010 by Zyklon-B Productions. Zyklon-B also released “Devotion to Unholy Creed” in white vinyl, limited to 133 copies.

In 2011 Burial Hordes made a deal with the Polish label Witching Hour Productions to release a new 7” vinyl EP called ”Descent”. Witching Hour Productions also released a vinyl edition of “War Revenge and Total Annihilation” which included new bonus tracks (limited to this vinyl version only). 

Progress continued in 2012 with the release of “12 Years of War and Revenge”. A compilation CD commemorating Burial Hordes history of merciless aural torture. Released by Those Opposed Records, it includes an additional unreleased track. Also slated for release is a 7” split vinyl record with fellow Greek black metal band Enshadowed. Two limited editions of this split will be released by Razorbleed Productions. 2012 also spawned a new member, Nuctemeron, behind the drums and currently the band is preparing new blasphemous songs for their third upcoming full length album.

Staying true to their original conception, yet evolving into new forms of vehement sound.Devoted and unwavering in their ideology to anti-commercialism, anti-social,anti-religious, satanic, chaos and misanthropy, they continue to march to their own hellish and hatred-fueled inspirations.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burial+Hordes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.