Burnski is an artist with an undeniable natural talent and drive. A comparable youth on the circuit, he has achieved more than some that have been around for twice as long. Aged 20, he was the youngest person to play at the legendary Leeds institution Back2Basics in the 16 year history of the club. On the basis of this and an immediate rapport with the club faithful, he was subsequently asked to become resident and keeps it in the heart of UK club land to this day.

Emerging from a seaside town renowned for not much more than smog & fish shops, Burnski preferred to spend his time locked away in his studio experimenting with sounds. Born in 1986, he began producing as a teenager and has stacked up a string of renowned releases on Dessous, Trapez, 2020 Vision, Morris Audio, Infant and remixing the seminal X-Press 2 release 'Smoke Machine on Skint Records.

A trained pianist and with a keen interest in all forms of composition, Burnski has found his own musical niche and interpretation on the electronic music scene. He represents a wide variation of sounds across the spectrum from jazz, trip hop, disco, electro, dub, house, minimal and techno. Trained from the versatility of his residency slots he adjusts his sound for the night in question, always armed with a bag of fresh music, healthy for any hour. His style is now familiar to some of some of the best clubs in Europe including Fabric, Watergate, The Key, The End, TDK festival and Sankeys and his own productions are currently providing a benchmark of quality for the new breed of producers today.

In October Burnski shall release the "Schizophrenia EP" on Morris/Audio. This is his third release on the Swiss label, after two very successful releases with them. “Schizophrenia” seems a very suitable name for the main track as it contains a very dark edge, perfect for those late night slots. Following that with be another third release on a label from him, this time coming on Simon Bakers Infant Records in November. "Packing my bags" is a deep techno EP, which is creating a lot of hype at the moment. Burnski has become an accomplished artist by his early twenties, and with alot more quality music in the works, the future holds untold possibilities.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burnski">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.