There are 3 or more bands called Burning Times.

1) Burning Times is a three piece hardcore punk band from Brighton, England. Together for only a year and a half initially, between early 2007 to mid 2008, they released two 7" EP's and a cd-r demo (Nuclear Family War EP on Tadpole Records, The End Is The Beginning Is The End Is The Beginning....EP on Tadpole Records/Parade of Spectres/Keep Screaming/This One's For The Crew/Burning Times). With Matt's return from Australia in 2012, the band have resumed playing and are writing material for a new 7".


'Burning Times was a band that existed in Brighton for about 18 months. They released one 7", then broke up. Then got back together, recorded the other 5 songs they'd written, played one show and broke up again. This is the second, and last ever record from a great, great band.

They brought together a disillusioned Brighton hardcore scene and reunited the punks, reminding everyone that punk rock was about freedom of expression and freedom of choice and not about Nikes and fists.

Burning Times featured members of Abandon Ship and Turn Cold. Burning Times were, for a fleeting moment in my life, the only band that mattered.'




2) Burning Times is a pagan/folk black metal band from Belarus (Borisov) formed in 1998. The original demo from '99 exists only in 2 copies. Only Max and the original singer have those copies. The band split up in 2002 but then Warlock decided to continue it as a solo project in 2004. Warlock originally only played guitar for the band and wrote lyrics. He now plays all instruments. Warlock relocated to Chicago, Illinois, USA. 

Short interview with Warlock:

Why this name?
Most of the band's lyrics are focused on the christian extermination of pagans during the time period of 1550-1660. The most common way to execute the witches and heretics at the time was to burn them alive, because the christian church believed that "Fire itself is the element of purification, and nothing less than fire could negate the evil that was said to be witches." Because of the intense burnings, this period of Western history is referred to as the "Burning Times".
How, do you think, does the internet (or mp3) change the music industry?
It's a great help to any new artists that want their music to be heard.

Would you sign a record contract with a major label?
No

Band History:
The band was formed in the end of 1998 by Witchburner (vocals), Warlock (guitar) and Lesch (drums). By the end of 1999, the first Burning Times demo was recorded. In 2002 the band stopped existing, until the summer of 2004. Right now Burning Times is the solo-project of Warlock, the first guitarist/songwriter of the band.

Your influences?
Burzum, Darkthrone, Immortal, Temnozor, Old Wainds, Gods Tower, slavic traditional folk-music.

Anything else...?
Nothing is forgotten, nothing is forgiven...The time for revenge has come, the time to spill the blood of christian pigs,


3) Burning Times -- Industrial Alternative rock from Indiana, USA. The band was around for a few years, sometime around 1994 or 1995 and released 3 albums to my knowledge: "False.Noise.Emptiness" demo, "Recollection Collection" CD, and S/T CD. Influences included Skinny Puppy, Stabbing Westward, Nine Inch Nails, The Cure, Ministry, Front 242, Sister Machine Gun, Nitzer Ebb, etc.  The band included many different members over the years, but the primary members were: Scott Mitting: Programming, Vocals, Guitars, Steve Dill: Drums, Guitars, Clint Sausaman: Bass Guitar.  Other members were Chris Zugelder: Vocals. The band did the most, release-wise, in the Fort Wayne area.




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burning+Times">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.