Attempting to revive a genre that has started to disappear in recent years, BURN ME DOWN brings metal back to its roots. This new Massachusetts-based band draws influences from legends such as Pantera, At the Gates, In Flames, and Metallica. They are known for skillfully weaving technical musicality with raw emotion into songs that are appreciated by fans of all genres of aggressive music.

BURN ME DOWN formed in the fall of 2003, when Andy Riker (rhythm guitar), Craig Cashman (lead guitar), and Ben Paulding (drums) formed the band as a side project to learn some cover songs to perform at local shows. After writing a few original songs and receiving an enthusiastic response at their performances, they decided to make the band their first priority. The group’s sound became complete when they recruited Josh Gavell to do vocals and Dave Williamson to play bass. After a short break to write new material and rework old songs, BURN ME DOWN re-emerged in early 2005, stronger than ever. The band released a four-song demo CD, and quickly developed a dedicated fan-base with their intense songs and solid live performance.

In the summer of 2005, BURN ME DOWN recorded their independently released album, "The Rough Divide", with Oscar Gouveia from Beyond the Embrace (Metal Blade Records). Now armed with a professional quality recording, the band has been busy playing gigs throughout Massachusetts and promoting their new release. They’ve played venues such as The New Wave Café (New Bedford), The Compound (Fitchburg), and Club Deniro (Taunton) with bands including Beyond the Embrace, Kobalt, Ligeia, and 25 Ta Life. Additionally, they recently hosted a boston radio show "StrongArm Radio" (WRBB104.9) in Boston.

All of the members are motivated to continue expanding their fan-base, writing new songs, and honing their individual musical abilities. BURN ME DOWN plans to go full throttle into the new year by touring extensively, promoting themselves, and staying true to their own brand of metal.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burn+Me+Down">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.