There are 2 bands that have the same name:

1. Burning Earth from Glasgow, Scotland
2. Burning Earth from Uniontown, PA

Burning Earth from Scotland:

Glasgow based Metal band Burning Earth was born and christened in Mid 2006 by guitarist Alan “Stayrsaigh” Stares as a return to the gigging scene and as a platform to vent new material and songwriting skills after an absence of almost 2 years. 
The band comes together with a wealth of previous experience featuring ex-members of many great Scottish Metal acts with Stayrsaigh himself an ex-member and co-songwriter of Dionysus. 

The group features in its lineup:

Kyle McQuarrie: Ex-bassist for Argonath
Graeme "Big Gee" Lapper: Ex-vocalist/bassist for Dionysus
Jaime "Virus" Cross: Keyboardist with Beyond Despair and Alba gu Bráth 
Martin Doyle: Former drummer for Madman is Absolute

After the departure of original guitarist Hendo, Barry “Baz” Fitzsimmons of Glasgow Power Metal band Syth joined the band for a great year before departing to reform the once defunct Syth. A new guitarist was found in shredder Jamie Kerr from Greenock and the band are set to tear the UK and further afield apart with their powerful but melodic sound. 

Burning Earth play a style of melodic metal which fuses Power, Thrash, Progressive, Folk and Death Metal with anything else they really feel like. Their first EP “Chronicles of The Calling” was released in October 2007 to critical acclaim, and the band have proven them a highly adept force on stage, gaining many fans in the process. At the preset moment they are working on releasing a free download single called “Frozen Ocean”, which will be followed with the band’s second EP shortly thereafter.

www.myspace.com/onceburningearth   

Burning Earth from Uniontown, PA:
Burning Earth rose from the ashes of one of Pittsburgh's premier alternative bands, “Psychedelic Kitchen" and Uniontown's own local favorites "Lucid 1". "The Kitchen" as they were called had band members Wade and Paully in direct competition with Uniontown favorites Eric and Bubsy of Lucid 1.

Due to a shift in the musical climate and success pulling band members in different directions, The Kitchen broke up. Wade then formed “Copper Drama” with bass player "Stoner" joining approximately 2 years later. After a period of hiatus, the opportunity to become a stronger unit opened with Eric and Bubsy leaving Lucid 1 and the two "Drama" players with ex-Kitchen drummer Paully, grouping and starting what is known today as B.E. or the mighty BURNING EARTH!

Each band member compliments one other. This is a true band in every sense. Each member truly is a "KEY" member. The chemistry is second to none. Right from the start Burning Earth was destined for the bigger stages. From it's inception in 2005 Burning Earth has performed as opening act and special guests to: Buckcherry, Days of the New, Seven Mary Three, Mark Slaughter, Crossfade, Saliva, Quiet Riot, Jani Lane’s Warrant, Jackyl, The Bullet Boys, Rehab, Mercy Fall, Ron Keel, Daniel MacMaster of BONHAM, and Deconstruct. In previous incarnations the band/members have opened for: Creed, Sammy Hagar, Fuel, Blue Oyster Cult, Pat Benatar and many more. 

Then early in 2008 Burning Earth was approached by manager “Sweet Lou” Hetzer with the opportunity to make a record at Studio4 Recording in Philadelphia Pa. with multi-platinum selling recording artist/producer Dean Davidson formerly of Britney Fox, and Grammy award winning producer Phil Nicolo of “The Butcher Brothers” fame and “Rough House Records”. The band knew this was the opportunity of a lifetime but the window of opportunity would be closing quickly due to internal and external scheduling conflicts so there would only be time for one day in the studio before returning to Pittsburgh for a stop at the “Hard Rock Café.” Once in the studio the band churned out their debut full length studio release “One Day” which is available for download in the store area.

www.BuringEarthOnline.com  OR  www.myspace.com/burningearthonline

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burning+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.