BURNING POINT was founded in the Fall of 1999 in Oulu, Finland. After the recordings of only one promotional CD, the band managed to get a record deal with a well-known German based metal label, Limb Music (LMP), who released the albums "Salvation By Fire" (2001) and "Feeding The Flames" (2003). Despite massive legal problems which ended up in fights through lawyers and the loss of their record deal, the band managed to get live slots on some big festivals such as Tuska Metal Festival and Sweden Rock. In 2004 the band took a new, fifth member to the band. Jussi Ontero was chosen to take over the keyboards and the the band went straight to the studio to record the single "To Hell And Back" which was released only in Finland and Sweden by Poison Arrow Records. Between the late 2004 and early 2006, two members of the original line-up went their own ways. Jukka (guitars) continued his own band NNS and Jöpe (bass) joined Catamenia. In 2005 BURNING POINT recorded another promotional CD. It was brought to the attention of Metal Heaven in Germany and they offered the band a record deal. Spring 2006 the remaining members, Pete, Jussi & Jari started to record the new album. In the middle of the sessions they asked one of their long-time friends, Pekka Kolivuori to step in and fill the 2nd guitarists place. The line-up was completed by the new bassist, Jukka Jokikokko (who also did the engineering of the album in the HelGate studios) at the end of 2006. "Burned Down The Enemy" (2007) marked the end of an era but also the beginning of something new. The band played extensively nationally after the release of the album, but they also made a quick visit to Romania's Maximum Rock Festival. In the spring of 2008 BURNING POINT started the recordings of a new album, "Empyre" at the HelGate studios. The band's line-up also changed as Jari stepped out of the band to focus on his other band and Jussi took over the drums. Pasi Hiltula (ex-Kalmah, ex-Eternal Tears of Sorrow), who also played on the first two albums, was chosen to be the new keyboardist. Between the recording sessions the band also did few chosen gigs like supporting ex-Skid Row vocalist Sebastian Bach. Empyre was without a doubt "back to the roots" album and you'll definitively hear a strong "80's vibe" on the album. Naturally the cover songs and the guests, which are inlcuded on the Limited Edition, just prove the point. Running Wild's "Gods of Iron" (feat. Majk Moti, ex- Running Wild), The Rod's "Nuclear Skies" (feat. David "Rock" Feinstein), Q5's "Let Go" (feat. Jonathan K) and a cover song from one of the biggest artist in Finland, Kirka, "I'll Be Yours" from Kirka's album R.O.C.K. (1986) features vocals by Taage (Kilpi & ex-Altaria) and lead guitars by ex-Kirka guitarist Riku Kukkonen. The "top notch" production on the album is from the band's own hands and the great mastering was done by Minerva Pappi at the famous Finnvox Studios. The cover artist, Felipe Machado Franco, is also known from his artwork to bands like Iced Earth, Blaze Bayley, Axel Rudi Pell etc. 2 singles from the the album, Kirka cover "I'll be Yours" and "Manic Merry-Go-Round" was chosen to the playlist of one biggest radio-stations in Finland, SBS-Radios and they were in heavy rotation throughout the nation for a long time. Between '09-'10 they did a mini-tour in Finland and Sweden with Cryonic Temple (SWE) and Tragedian (DE) as well as few club and festival gigs like a performance in Qstock Festivals. Spring 2010 the band decided to leave from their current label, due to the lack of promotion etc. The band also part ways with the keyboardist Pasi Hiltula and decided to continue as a 4-piece band. They started to write the new material and late 2011 the new promo-cd "Sparks from The Ignitor" was sent to the labels. Scarlet Records (ITA) was chosen to be their new label and the new album, The Ignitor, was released world wide in June 2012.
In Asia it was released (with bonus tracks) by Spiritual Beast Records.

Album was mastered at the Tico Tico Studios ( Sonata Arctica, Sentenced etc) by Ahti Kortelainen and the amazing artwork was once again from the hands of Felipe Machado Franco!

At the time of The Ignitor tour, Jarkko Väisänen played live shows on keyboards with the band as a hired gun. The guys came to a conclusion that maybe he would like to join the band as a solid member. New Years Eve 2013 Burning Point played another memorable live show in their hometown Oulu, Finland at Club Teatria. After show party was the perfect time to raise the question to Jarkko. The look on his face was unforgettable, the Iceman showed a sign of melting but only for a breaf moment. Now the guys had another top notch player with great personality in the band.
It was in the end of 2013 when Nitte and Pete kept in touch with each other on a musical basis. At the same time the guys were thinking about doing something different with or to the band. It didn't take long for everyone to realize that she would be the perfect vocalist for the band. Not only because of her tremendous voice but also personality. It has always been Burning Point's main priorities to have good chemistry within the group and that can be heard and seen on albums and live shows. If you ever get the chance to tour with the group, you'll know.

The next album became to take shape at Helgate and Reindeer Horns Studios. All the songs had been done and it seemed that this album would take way too long to get finished. There was a sign of frustration in the air and clock was ticking towards lead vocal recording sessions. At the same time bassist Jukka Jokikokko had some personal, non band related issues and Pete asked Sammy Nyman to play demo bass tracks so that things would be ready for Nitte to come and record vocals. It was a sad moment for everyone when Jukka declared his decision that he would leave the band. There was no drama involved, a man has to do what a man has to do.

Sammy states: "It was an odd situation for me to go and play demo tracks to BP's next album. I've known the band for years and I've done a few gigs with the guys as a crew member and some hanging out with the band backstage. I've always looked up to their music and mr. Jokikokko has always been one of my favourite bass players." Little did he know when Pete gave him a call and asked him to join the ranks. Another cool and active guy in the band, this will be the perfect line-up for the future endeavors of the band.

The new album took it's final shape in the winter 2014/2015. Now it was time to "hunt" for a record label. It's very common that nowadays demos don't get that much recognition, the band had a killer album in their hands and everyone knew that this it. Sort of a It's now or never- situation. The album was sent to various labels and feedback was very encouraging. Mastermind Pete had his contact to a certain major German label, and that happened to be AFM Records, one of the biggest ones in the industry. Luckily he knew Timo Hoffman, one of the booker guys in the company. Timo had been following the band for years and as he heard the new album, the deal started to happen. After signing it, first lyric video was made from "Find Your Soul", a very good representer of the new Burning Point. The new album will be released June 12th (EU), July 7th (US) and August (Jap). In addition AFM will re-issue the first four BURNING POINT albums "Salvation By Fire" (2001), "Feeding The Flames" (2013), "Burned Down The Enemy"(2007) and "Empyre" (2009), all scheduled for a August release and about to include numerous bonus tracks.

Year 2015 will be a full blast from the Burning Point -camp!!! .As this is being written, the summer festival tour is just around the corner and a Finnish club tour is in the making for fall and winter 2015

Current line-up:
Pekka Kolivuori - Guitars
Pete Ahonen - Vocals, Guitars
Jarkko Väisänen - Keyboards
Nitte Valo - Strange Vocals
Sammy Nyman - Bass / Backing Vocals 
Jussi Ontero - Drums

Former members:
Pasi Hiltula - Keyboards
Jukka Kyrö - Guitars
Toni Kansanoja - Bass
Jukka Jokikokko - Bass
Jari Kaiponen  - Drums

Discography:
1. Salvation By Fire (2001)
2. Feeding The Flames (2003)
3. To Hell And Back/The Road To Hell (Single) (2004)
4. Burned Down The Enemy (2006)
5. Empyre (2009)
6. The Ignitor (2012)
7. Burning Point (2015) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burning+Point">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.