Burst was a progressive metal band from Kristinehamn, Sweden. They were formed in 1993 by Jesper Liveröd, Linus Jägerskog and Patrik Hultin. Guitarists Robert Reinholdz and Jonas Rydberg joined the band a bit later. According to their label, they are considered to be one of Sweden's brightest metal prospects.

The band was known to add progressive elements to their metal music making them different from most of the other metalcore bands. Their vocals were a mixture of melodic vocals (Reinholdz) and screaming (Jägerskog). They were last signed to Relapse Records.
Burst were formed by a couple of friends for no real intention but to just make fast paced, heavy music. They were initially called Dislars. Their older music was more grindcore and crust punk oriented. They played a few live shows across Sweden. They later started playing a brutal style of hardcore punk. The more they improved their playing skills, the band shifted towards a more progressive style while still sticking to their Hardcore roots. They later decided on the name Burst. The band then began to take their music more seriously and decided to record demos. During this period they toured heavily. They eventually inked a deal with Melon Records. Their first two studio albums were released there. However, the band was not satisfied with the results and began to add more changes to their music. They released a few EPs after this.
In 2003, Burst released Prey On Life through Relapse Records. This is the album that not only set the bands style but also gained them more popularity. This was because Relapse was a better-known label, having in its roster bands like Nile and Mastodon, as well as many well known bands in the metal community. The release was generally well received. By touring with Dillinger Escape Plan, Mastodon and other bands, Burst began to slowly rise in popularity. Before writing their new album, they knew what direction they had to go. Instead of sticking to a formula that worked, they intended to push themselves even further. The result was Origo, which was praised by magazines such as Terrorizer, Metal Hammer and Kerrang! and saw the band becoming more popular than ever before.

Burst's new record, "Lazarus Bird", was recorded at Bohussound Studio in Kungälv, Sweden, and produced by Burst and Fredrik Reinedahl. Relapse Records released the new album on September 16, 2008 in the United States, September 19, 2008 in Germany, and September 22, 2008 in the rest of Europe. On July 30 Burst announced they would break up as band after their fall tour in 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Burst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.