The force this band from Wuppertal/Germany generates is simply beyond normal. BUT WE TRY IT serve up a mean concoction that's addictive. Their blistering beats are on point and take no prisoners. BUT WE TRY IT have mastered the art of blending their wall-of-sound guitars with wicked breaks, palatable melodies and cleverly inserted mosh parts.

BUT WE TRY IT was founded early 2008, and by December the quintett gave their stage debut together with Dead Flesh Fashion. Since that the band made a name for themselves throughout the state. They played over 40 gigs alongside bands such as Cryptopsy, First Blood, Valient Thorr, Final Prayer, A Traitor Like Judas, Zero Mentality and others.

Their recently released self-titled demo (out 04/17/09) features six songs. Recording and mixing was done between October 2008 and January 2009 in the band's own MadMax Studio in Wuppertal.

'The constant change of Swedish seeming melodies to Modern-American brute force,is this quintet merely succeeded, but rather marks to the compositions also constantly her naturalness. Here nothing sounds contrived, but how from a downpour, which is why I hope that the fellows can maintain this pace...' (Review excerpt : powermetal.de) 

...and they do! January 2010 But We Try It recorded their full length debut album "Dead Lights" in the renown Woodhouse Studios in Hagen/Germany with producer Waldemar Sorychta (Enemy of the Sun, Grip Inc.), who helped bands like Tiamat, Voodoocult, Lacuna Coil and Moonspell achieve internationally recognized albums. Mixing and Mastering was done by the legendary owner of the Woodhouse Studios Siggi Bemm who gave Caliban, Lacuna Coil and Samael their signature sound.

Needless to say, these five boys will be around. They won't just try it - they'll make it, too !!!

Hard Times... But We Try It


Weitere Infos: http://www.myspace.com/butwetryit#ixzz0umy9nxYH
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/butwetryit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.