There is more than one artist with this name:

1) EBM/Industrial/Dark Electro band from North Carolina
By Any Means Necessary is a one-man dark electro/EBM/Industrial project originally hailing from the mountains of Asheville, NC. Starting in late 2008, Sam Witherspoon took influence from the sounds of 80s and 90s dark electro and EBM groups and translated them into a palette to paint his own worlds. Aesthetics of the surreal, the macabre, horror films, space and spirituality are combined with critical introspection. The music itself is created with hardware synthesizers, sequencers, and drum machines. Dark, driving, agitated, melodic synth arpeggios, heavy, explosive drums, and heavily effected vocals comprise the style, and he has worked with talented musicians to bring his music to the stage from time to time. The first demo CD-R "On Command" was passed around in the summer/fall of 2009, and the first self titled release was made available in 2011 on CD and on the band's bandcamp: http://bamn.bandcamp.com

2) Thrash/death metal band from Texas 
The metal genre could be best defined as a reverence of power that can be found in darkness, and By Any Means Necessary upholds this notion by collaborating thrash and death metal-styles with lyrics signifying a somewhat misanthropic nature. From its conception in 2003, the band quickly came to acknowledgment and captivated audiences per the coherent execution of momentum found at their live performances. Originally founded by Stephen Fernandes(bass), Bobby Schwagel(lead guitar), Adam Wright(Vocals), and Jake Jarmon(drums), the band would soon become a household name in the Austin metal scene. It took little time before the band would have the opportunity to perform with internationally-known acts such as Soulfly, Deicide, Meshuggah, Crowbar, Cattle Decapitation, M.O.D, and Thine Eyes Bleed. With the departure of Bobby Schwaegel in the fall of 2007, the band welcomed the young Kevy Rojas into the mix and further enhanced their repertoire of music. Upon the spring of 2008, the band entered the studio with producer Scott Sargeant(M.O.D./ex-Skinlab, Killing Culture, Laaz Rockit) to record their self-titled demo. Following the completion of the recording, the band embarked on a summer-long chain of shows spanning the state definitively and advanced its influence into new audiences comprised of both metal and non-metal fans.

As By Any Means Necessary continues to gain the respect of new fans and music-critics the premise remains unchanged. The band's vision is fluently concrete and will continue to spread its message from the hills of central Texas to the depths of hell.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/By+Any+Means+Necessary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.