This is By Night. An extreme metal act from Falkenberg, Sweden. The band is currently signed to the german metal/hardcore label LifeForce records. It all started out 1999 in Falkenberg (southwestern Sweden) when Simon (guitar), André (guitar) and Per (drums) decided to put their old band "Predicted conspiracy" to the side, and start the band By Night that sounded a lot more harder than before.

They had some different members at a time until they found Henrik Persson (bassist) who made their dreams come true. With Henrik in the band there came new inspirations and they dropped the strings all the way to "B" and there was a lot more aggressive sound to it. After about half a year of song writing they at last found what they'd been searching for, the singer Christoffer Andersson. With him they recorded 2 demos "By Night"(2000) and "Derelict" (2001).

But after some social problems between Christoffer and By Night, they went different paths. This was some time around spring 2002 and since By Night's music evolved to the more harder kind, they decided that they would need a lot more aggressive new singer, and so they came to think of Adrian Westin that sings in the appropriate titled band "Aggressive Serpent", nowadays called "Trendkill". New inspirations came to life and detuned to "Bb",

By Night recorded "Lamentations" (2002), wich later appeared remastered on the Lifeforce-splitCD with Cipher System. After that By Night has received a lot of good response as they've been voted to best unsigned bands in magazines like "Monster Magazine" and the biggest metal magazine in Northern Europe "Close-Up". By Night has got generally good response from everyone. Both from their latest recording and from their live performances around Sweden.

And By Night has now got in touch with different labels but has decided to cooperate with LifeForce Records in Germany. By Night's debutalbum "Burn The Flags", with nine great tracks which was released in February 2005, has got amazing reviews. During May 2005 they went out on their first tour, the "We are the enemy-Tour" together with their labalmates; Destiny & Deadsoil and made Europe an unsafe place to live...

Right in this moment they are writing new, and even more brutal songs for the next album. Also searching/waiting for more tours and gigs...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/By+Night">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.