Cachexic a a 5 piece (only recently moved up from 4 piece 2011) Death-Metal band from South-West of England. The bands line-up consists of Mark Lockyer vocals, Pete Dodge guitar, Andy Lockyer guitar (old bass player) Robin Shute drums and Andy AKA Lord Brew on bass. The band has many influences within the extreme metal scene and can draw inspiration collectively from listening to the following bands; Slayer, Morbid Angel, Suffocation, Cryptopsy, Deicide, Cannibal Corpse, Autopsy, Napalm Death, Massacre, Etc. Band members can all boast to a wealth of experience within a live music environment over the past fifteen years. This has included playing together in another extreme metal band namely; Unit 731. Cachexic’s live set includes all material written by the band (taken from the albums 'Skybomb' 'The Contagious Strain' and `A Moment After Death`). Cachexic's biggest  achievement was getting voted 5th (out of 20 bands) taken from online/text votes for the Terrorizer magazine best of the underground unsigned bands fear candy cd 2007. 2008/2009 was a very busy period for the band both in a live environment & also with recording work. 2010 saw the band continuing to promote their 3rd album, that is a concept album entitled; 'A Moment After Death' (this album was self-released in June 2010). Now in 2011 the band have gained Lord Brew EX Nebular Frost (Bristol Black Metal band) on bass and Andy has moved onto guitar. The new music is slightly changed but only slightly (more grove. Think Dying Fetus/Misery Index meets Napalm Death) Cachexic have supported the likes of; Desecration, Amputated, Cinders Fall, Enemy Reign, Necrocest, Cryostorm, Cast Iron Jaw, Red Mist and many more. For more information and to book Cachexic please contact through our myspace www.myspace.com/cachexic3piece or find us on facebook by searching the name Cachexic.

Cachexic appeared on a Terrorizer Fear Candy CD, blasted me with a bit of good old school death metal, proper job (: <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cachexic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.