CADAVERIA was formed in 2001 by Cadaveria and Marçelo Santos (Flegias) with the intent to create a virtual space where to freely express themselves as musicians and extreme artists. In few months, after having recruited some of the most talented personalities from the Italian Metal scene (Killer Bob – aka John – ex Necrodeath, Frank Booth and Baron Harkonnen – aka LJ Dusk – from DyNAbyte), the band record the debut album The Shadows' Madame (Scarlet Records), that receives exalting consents worldwide.
Since then, CADAVERIA private virtual space became part of the collective Metal universe. The band’s style is immediately labelled as Horror Metal, definition that means all and nothing and that therefore leaves them the chance to play from the classical Heavy Metal to the new progressive tendencies, passing through Death, Gothic and Black Metal. The lyrics, scheming, hermetic and introspective, mirror the dark soul and the vexed personality of the singer Cadaveria, talking about presages, existence, memory, energies, intellect and death.
Once finished the live activity supporting the first CD, CADAVERIA release a Home Video, featuring the videos for the cult songs Spell and Circle of Eternal Becoming, the making-of the video clip and some other unpublished backstage acts. The video is fully self imagined/made/produced/distributed; its professional result testifies the initiative and the fervent creativity of the band and CADAVERIA’s love for the visual dimension besides music.
In 2003 the group begin the composition of the second CD, while Baron Harkonnen leaves the band to devote himself to his Industrial Metal project DyNAbyte. CADAVERIA continue its musical walk with no keyboards, building more melodic guitar riffs, but still preserving the original aggressiveness. The vocals become more variegated, flamboyant and fanciful.
While licensing The Shadows’ Madame in UK (Salvation/Triple Silence), in 2004 the second album Far Away From Conformity is released (Scarlet Records). The reactions of the audience are very hot and sometimes conflicting: CADAVERIA reached an appropriate autonomous complex style, that, as the title of the album says, is well away from the stereotypes of Death/Black Metal and from any trends of pre-existing genres.
The CD artwork, as always manufactured with photographic works by contemporary artists, shows also a renewed band look, hard but detailed and absolutely out of time. With Far Away From Conformity CADAVERIA are hated or loved!
This album, licensed also in Russia (CD Maximum) and South America (Hellion), collects good reviews from magazines and webzines all over the world and is supported by a tour that ends with a great live show at the Marquee, in central London.
During 2006 CADAVERIA work on the composition and production of its third full length. In early 2007 the band change label and join Season of Mist, that in May releases the third album entitled In Your Blood: twelve brand new songs that mark another step ahead in the band’s artistic career. The album is announced by the video for the song The Dream, immediately followed by the psycho-splattering Anagram video.
After having spent the last years in promotion and live shows in Italy, France, Mexico, Spain and Romania, CADAVERIA is now ready to face the future engagements with an enlarged line-up, as a second guitarist, Dick Laurent, has joined the combo. The quintet completed the songwriting and the recording of eleven dramatic new tracks, that will flood into CADAVERIA’s fourth album. The new release is expected for early 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cadaveria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.