There is more than one artist using the name Cadaver.

1) Cadaver is a death metal band from Råde, Norway. Anders Odden and Ole Bjerkebakke founded Cadaver in 1988. They were later joined by bassist René Jansen and in 1989 the trio released the "Abnormal Deformity" demo. The demo attracted the attention of Carcass members, Bill Steer and Jeff Walker, who signed the band to their Earache imprint label, Necrosis. The subsequent album, Hallucinating Anxiety was released in 1990 as a split with the Carnage album Dark Recollections. Shortly after the album's release, René Jansen was replaced by Eilert Solstad. In 1992, the band released their second album, titled ...In Pains. Dissension within the band would cause the band to fold in 1993.

In 1999 the band was resurrected by Odden, who went by the name Neddo. He gather three new musicians, and started to use the band name Cadaver Inc. The foursome, now including Czral, Balvaz and Apollyon recorded the album Discipline which was released in February 2001. A tour followed in support of Morbid Angel and Extreme Noise Terror. Accompanying the album was a website that sold alibis for murders. This website attracted too much attention and hence the original name was restored. Their final album was then released in 2003 titled Necrosis. The band decided to split up in 2004. Shortly thereafter, Anders rejoined synth-rock outfit Apoptygma Berzerk for the recording of You and Me Against the World, which had many top-10 singles in Europe, and subsequent touring. Upon receiving a once-in-a-lifetime invitation to join Celtic Frost on their 2006 world tour, Anders left Apoptygma Berzerk, and is now Celtic Frost's second guitarist.

Official website: www.cadaver.no


2) Lasse Öörni, a Finnish metal musician.

3) A rock band from Poland.

4) A Mexican goregrind band.

5) A death metal band from Hong Kong.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cadaver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.