Caelestia is an extreme symphonic metal band, initially formed in April 2012. The band’s debut album “Beneath Abyss” was recorded and mixed in Basement Studios (Athens), while the mastering was undertaken by Fascination Street Studios in Sweden, under the supervision by sound engineer Tony Lindgren (Paradise Lost, Katatonia, Enslaved, Witchcraft etc.).

The first album featured guest appearances by lead singer Bjorn “Speed” Strid of Soilwork and drummer Markus “Makka” Freiwald of Sodom. The band signed a record deal with metal Finnish label Inverse Records, and the album was worldwide released on February 16th, 2015. The release was followed by an official video clip for the title track “Beneath Abyss”, which was shot on various locations in southern Germany, and was directed by German director Matthias Kollek (Vault Productions).

The band’s second album titled “Thanatopsis” was produced by Fredman Studios (Gothenburg / Sweden), in the experienced hands of none other than Fredrik Nordström, a producer responsible for the creation of the famous “Gothenburg sound”. For the official worldwide release of their second album, the band struck a 3-year record deal with EMP Label Group (USA, founded by Dave Ellefson of Megadeth), whereas the album’s distribution in Europe was done via renowned German label SPV / Steamhammer GmbH. “Thanatopsis” was officially released on December 8th, 2017.

Like in the first album, there are appearances of renowned guest artists of the international metal community, i.e. drummer Jason Bittner (Overkill, Anthrax, ex-Flotsam & Jetsam, Shadows Fall etc). The band subsequently released several videos for the following tracks: “Devil’s Game” (audio video), “Chamber Of Torments” (audio video), “Initium Vitae Et Mortis” (lyric video) and “Thanatopsis” (official video). All videos were made by HK Visual Creations.

As far as live performances are concerned, Caelestia has appeared as a support act to the following bands: Katatonia (February 2013), The Vision Bleak (February 2014), Arch Enemy (November 2015), Draconian (February 2016), Insomnium (March 2018), Tribulation (March 2018) and Carach Angren (September 2018); individual band members have also taken part in Metal Female Voices Fest in Belgium (October 2016) among others.

In April 2019, the band released a hand-crafted limited-edition 7” vinyl single, called “Angel On Fire” (via NuN Records) containing 2 brand new tracks (“Angel On Fire” on side A and “Agony” on side B), with Dan Swanö of “UniSound Studios” (Orebro / Sweden), as the producer.

The official release of the single coincided with the band’s co-headline appearance in the Rise Of Decay mini-fest in Athens, alongside with Swedish extreme metallers Nightrage, whereas Anthology from Slovakia and Evil Within from Greece completed the bill.

After that, the band embarked on its very first European Tour (April – May 2019), alongside (all-Norwegian) pioneer metallers Vulture Industries, black metallers Helheim, and avant-garde metallers Madder Mortem. The tour was called “Strange Rain European Tour 2019”, and Caelestia appeared on stages in France (Paris), UK (London), Denmark (Esbjerg), and Germany (Hamburg & Dresden), among others.

In the summer of 2019, Nikos Palivos and Dimitra Vintsou, the two members who initially started the band in 2012, decided to leave for personal reasons. Both vocalists were immediately replaced by trained “leggiero” soprano Georgia Tsetsoni (female vocals) and seasoned growler Pantelis Daskalelos (male vocals), whereas experienced extreme drummer George Tzitzifas (ex-Among Ruins, ex-Bare Infinity etc) took permanent seat behind the drumkit of Caelestia.

Despite the recent radical lineup changes, the band rearranged and organized itself on time to play another co-headline mini festival show in the beginning of September 2019 in Slovakia (Vrutky / RC Mlyn), alongside Slovakian female fronted metallers Anthology and fellow extreme metallers Evil Within.

The current lineup of the band’s new era consists of 5 permanent members:
a) Georgia Tsetsoni / female vocals
b) Pantelis Daskalelos / brutal vocals
c) Vassilis Thomas / guitars
d) Stelios Varotsakis / bass guitar
e) George Tzitzifas / drums

The band is currently working on the preproduction of its third album, the successor to “Thanatopsis”, whereas tracking for the new album is scheduled to begin in March 2020. More live shows are scheduled for 2020, as well as other promotional activities.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Caelestia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.