Associated with: Sotones

Caesura may apply to one of at least two bands. The first is an English band with post rock influences, the second an American math rock band. 

1) Caesura formed in Winchester, south England in late 2005. They played some shows, recorded an EP (Dear Light Outside, released on Lockjaw records) and later two other tracks, one of which (Weight and Carriage) found its way onto the BSM 6machine compilation. In Autumn '08 they brought another member into the fold, and decided a change was needed. They are interested in history. They are interested in the Rosenbergs. It sort of made sense. They can now be found under the name On Histories of Rosenberg. Their first EP is due out August 09.

2) A trio from San Francisco that consisted of guitar, bass, drums, and vocals, Caesura played unique, scattershot rock, the spirit of which is lodged firmly in the punk rock tradition of bands such as Mission of Burma, Gang of Four, and the Minutemen. Caesura worked diligently during its existence to solidify its sound, which has emerged as tight, slashing and bass-driven, with strong, confident vocals.
Brad Purvis - Bass
Evan Rehill - Guitar, voice
Mike Shoun - Drums

3) Caesura are a young Exeter (South West England) based Metal band with influences from all areas of the mighty Metal Genre! Fusing groovy drum beats and bass-lines with catchy, yet still crushingly heavy, guitar riffs and brutal vocals. Caesura started out in July 2009 with Ed (Vocals), Damo (Guitar) and Jack (Guitar) and began writing material , Andy (Bass) and Toby (Drums) were quickly recruited and thus Caesura was complete.
Caesura played their first gig on 17th May 2010 at Exeter Cavern. And continued to gig around the local area with some great bands and a metal hungry crowd. After putting on many energetic shows, making sure the crowd gets involved, The ball has started to roll after six months of gigging around Devon.
In April 2011 Caesura parted with Jack and Toby and the positions were filled by Gary (Drums) and Alex (Guitar). On 17th June 'The Storm' was unleashed on the public via Phonic FM. Then released as a free download!! The second half of 2011 will see Caesura record a full E.P with t-shirts and other merch' to go with it. And of course more gigging!

4) A screamo band with influences from Orchid, Neil Perry, etc. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Caesura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.