There are multiple artists with this name:

1) CAIN is Alabama-born sibling trio Taylor, Madison, and Logan Cain. The group has toured across the US, Canada, and the UK, performing at such festivals as C2C and Cavendish Beach Music Fest. Their debut Christian project—a self-titled EP—was released on March 6, 2020, and "Rise Up (Lazarus)" quickly became their first big hit. 

2) Cain was a band from Minneapolis, USA active in the early 1970s. Bearing a clunky and catchy hard rock sound, Cain flourished in the mid-west for a few years before splitting in 1978. Members included Jiggs Lee (vocals), Dave Elmeer (bass, acoustic, keyboards), Lloyd Forsberg (electric guitar) and Kevin DeRemer (drums)

3) Cain is an Italian black metal band led by Lord Vampyr (ex-Theatres des Vampires). With lyrics about the Roman Empire, their style has been described as "Praetorian black metal".

4) Cain is a death / thrash metal band based in Buffalo, New York, USA. Formed in 2010, Cain has made its mark on the Buffalo music scene. Members include Bryant Morrison (drums, vocals, also in Hellcannon), Eareckson Murray (guitar, vocals), Zack DeMarzio (bass). Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/CainThrash

5) Cain was a dungeon synth solo project from Novosibirsk, Russia, formed by Agrippa Cain. He released a demo tape titled "Child of Cold" in 1999.

6) Cain is an indie emo band from America. They released a self-titled 7"' on Allied Recordings.

7) Cain is a Greek alternative metal band. They released one album titled "Alliance of Spite" in 2006 on Sleaszy Rider Records.

8) Cain was a Japanese unk band active in the 1980s. Also known as カイン.

9) Cain was a industrial doom metal band from Birmingham, UK, active in the early 1990s. They released a self-titled album in 1992 on Trident Music International.

10) Cain is a new and upcoming scouse rapper from Liverpool, UK. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.