Caldera has been a popular name for musicians. (1) An Ιnstrumental post band from Athens Greece.(2) An electronic progressive American band of the early 70s. (3) A latin-jazz band active for the latter half of the 70s. (4) A current electronic group. (5) A metallic hardcore band located in Antwerp, Belgium. (6) A metal band from Elgin, Illinois. (7) An artist who produces Techno, House & Bass music. (8) A stoner doom band from France. 

Caldera (1)  was formed in 2014 in Athens Greece. It's an instrumental post band with influences from Cult of Luna, Isis, Amenra, Shora, Russian Circles, Neurosis etc.

Caldera (2) (also known as Caldara) produced one album, the electronic oddity called A Moog Mass, which combines Switched-On Bach type multi-part Moog arrangements with some other keyboards (mostly organ and harpsichord) and vocals (often treated or vocoded) for a version of a Catholic mass. The album was released in 1970.

Caldera (3) was formed by a multi-national group of players in the mid-70s to bring together a wide array of latin styles (from Brazil, Cuba, and elsewhere) with electric jazz and funk. Eduardo del Barrio from Argentina (keyboards) and Jorge Strunz from Costa Rica (guitar) led the band, which also included two Americans (drummer Dean Cortez and saxman Steve Tavaglione), a Cuban (drummer Carlos Vega), and a Brazilian (percussionist Mike Azavedo). They released four albums before breaking up in 1979, and the members have been active in other projects since.

Caldera (4) has released one full-length album, Gegen die Welt (1999) and a 12" single. Members are Anni B and DJ Amethyst.

Caldera (5) A hardcore/metalcore band from Belgium. So far they have released a demo and a full length cd 'Free Will Is A Joke' in August 2007. They are currently busy writing a new album…

 Caldera (7) from Germany, now based in Brighton (UK) is a Techno, House & Bass music producer. In 2016 he realeased his debut album Stuck In A Dream Of Being Awake on the label Noorden.

Caldera (8) was formed in 2001 in Nancy, France. Their first full length album entitled Mist Through Your Consciousness was released in March 2008.

Caldera (9) from Duisburg, Germany is a Techno/House producer. In 2016 he realeased his debut album Stuck In A Dream Of Being Awake on the label Noorden.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Caldera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.