There is more than one artist with this name.

1) Callisto is a Finnish experimental metal band (Turku, Finland 2001-present). Trying to fit the post-metal outfit Callisto into one single category hardly does the band justice. Founded in 2001, the sextet play a timeless, downbeat yet melancholic style of music that is rich in nuances, draws from numerous sources and doesn't really have any obvious fellow creatures or points of comparisons.

Callisto's debut True Nature Unfolds was recorded in 2003 by the the late Mieszko Talarczyk of Nasum fame and was introduced to Earache Records a year later through Johannes Persson from Cult of Luna, earning them worldwide distribution. The band's sophomore album "Noir", released in 2006, still drawing from modern sludge also introduced subtle jazz leanings, heavy use of mellotron and experimentation with unconventional rock instruments such as the saxophone and the flute.  

2009 marked another experimental shift in style, taking some distance from the more instrumental material, Callisto composed a vocal record presenting a new member Jani Ala-Hukkala handling the vocals. The songs on ”Providence” are built upon layers of melodies, using a broader palette they’ve coloured their sound with twangy guitars, mellotrons, prog rock overtones and a singing style that can be traced back to 90’s-era vocalists like Layne Stayley. Both those familiar and new to the band will find a lot to digest in the majestic compositions and cryptic lyrics which often revolve around theological subjects. 
 
On "Providence" Callisto has once again joined forces with old-time producer, engineer Jonas Olsson who also worked on the Precambrian record by The Ocean. The artwork is contributed by Martin Kvamme of Unit Delta Plus (Fantomas, Satyricon, Turbonegro).

2) Callisto is the name of an ambient electronic music group consisting of David Wright and Dave Massey.

3) Callisto is deep house producer Dana Kelley aka DKMA, active from 1997-2001 on Guidance Recordings. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Callisto">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.