CALM HATCHERY was born in april in 2002 in Bialystok (Poland) by the guitarists - HUZAR and IWAN and drummer - RADAD. After three months they are created first unnofficial demo.

The demo „First dreams ” was recorded in september 2002 in home and rehearsal room. Its form is completely underground (a photocopied cover, etc.). It comprises four tracks (which last 15 minutes)- all of them belonging to death metal type of music. After the recording session first changes in line-up occurred. In the consequence the number of members was increased to four. With the new musicians CALM HATCHERY appeared on some concerts with bands such as Vesania, Crionics, Abused Majesty

Between april to september 2004. CALM HATCHERY recorded all parts of new full material in Hertz studio, but this time a full debut album „EL-Alamien” with 9 compositions. Different members and rich experience made them not only much more fierce and brisk, but also better arranged. Undoubtedly, it is the most mature album of all, taking into account both: music and lyrics. Different members and better experience made music on „El Alamein ” not only much more fierce and brisk, but also better arranged. Lyrics are based on an campaign in north Africa in 1942 (II ww) and mixed with misticism and our reflections, which makes the recording an ingenious concept album.After this the band palyed some concerts with band as: Hate, Toxic bonkers, Sacriversum, Trauma

IN may 2005 CALM HATCHERY have to suspended on some time playing. Huzar have to change place to his family town Slupsk and than looking for new members. In 2006 the band was ready to continue play again. With new 3 members (HACEL-bass, ZOMBIE-guitar, SZCZEPAN-vocals) also Radad returned to the band. In 1 july 2006 Band played on MALBORK ZAMCZYSKO festival. IN 1 november 2006 small label VIA NOCTURNA was relased late material”EL-Alamien”.

IN december-april of 2007 band recorded second demo „thies which were” as a check new members and proove that band still live and have some to show in music stuff. Today CALM HATCHERY are working on a new material on second album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Calm+Hatchery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.