There are multiple artists with the name Calyx.
1) South London-based drum and bass producer.
2) Spanish black metal band.
3) Punk / Powerpop band from Pittsburgh, USA

1) Over the last decade, South London-based Larry Cons has amassed a vast discography on the Drum & Bass scene’s most respected labels. Whilst his releases date back to the start of 1998, his history as an accomplished musician dates back to early childhood. Having studied 5 instruments from a young age, Larry has worked on projects and bands in several genres, perhaps most prominently as a guitarist in numerous Jazz and Funk bands, including his own eight-piece outfit ‘Octane’. Whilst the home for most of his music has been the legendary Moving Shadow imprint, he has also had an array of highly-acclaimed releases on Metalheadz, V Recordings, Renegade Hardware, Subtitles, Violence Recs, Audio Couture, ill.skillz Recs, Intercom, Rugged Vinyl, as well as two of his own labels, Thunderous Audio (co-owned with Kontrol) and Momentum Music (co-owned with TeeBee). The debut Calyx album on Moving Shadow; ‘No Turning Back’ was hailed by many as the highlight of 2005. Featuring 6 solo tracks, 4 collaborations (with TeeBee, Gridlok, and ill.skillz), and remixes by Dom & Roland and Hive & Gridlok (remixing together for the first time!), every track gained massive DJ support and the album was in such high demand that three represses had to be made in the first 6 months following its release. Given Larry’s well-established reputation and strengths as a DJ, it’s not suprising that the release of the album was followed by a deluge of bookings for an album world tour that continued for the rest 2005; two U.S. tours, two Australian tours, and countless European dates ensured that the Calyx sound spread far and wide.

2007 proved to be a phenomenal year with the launch of a new label from Calyx & TeeBee, marking its first release with not just a 12’ or an E.P., but with an entire album of Calyx & TeeBee collaborations released on 4-piece Vinyl and CD. The Anatomy LP topped sales charts for weeks on end and was followed by a massive album World Tour of back-to-back Calyx & TeeBee sets.

Calyx & TeeBee are now working on their second collaborative album – an LP which will see them branch into new genres with one half of the LP being DnB and the other half comprising a wide range of styles. Expect a vinyl triple-pack of 6 DnB cuts, and all 20 tracks released on double-CD and mp3.

In addition to their ventures into new styles of music, Calyx & TeeBee have been pushing for more of their joint sets to feature 6 decks and 2 mixers, with both DJ’s in action simultaneously. They first performed with this setup at a legendary event in Moscow, October 2007. Since then they have made over 30 performances on 6 to 8 decks and 2 mixers. With each gig they have discovered more permutations, possibilities and ideas whilst developing an understanding that generates both spontaneous and choreographed moments. Calyx and TeeBee find it by far the most exciting, enjoyable and expressive way they have ever performed and are now looking to make every joint booking feature this setup. Rest assured, you will never have heard or seen a DnB performance like it!

2) Hailing from Spain, CALYX was formed in 2013 by Fantoni and Humungus with the intention of doing a studio project. After their first demo, a year later, came two new components: SD on bass and Huarte on drums. In 2017 came the more advanced demo Codex Tormentorvm, whereby CALYX began to compose new songs and perform several live shows. In July of 2018, the band recorded new material in Moontower Studios, which would subsequently birth their debut album.

Now arrives that debut album, Vientos Arcaicos, grandly culminating the CALYX aesthetic. Indeed ancient but by no means regressive, CALYX's black metal breathes a rare air of authenticity - indeed, they are old souls. The quartet's inspiration remains firmly entrenched in the Middle Ages, sweeping across the native legends of the Iberian Peninsula as well as castles, ruins, Aragonese Pyrenees, and decrepitude: truly ANCIENT material for their creative grist. Suitably do CALYX charge forward with a triumphant-yet-moody style of black metal - with the emphasis on METAL - that suggests influences as varied as Master's Hammer, Bathory, Tormentor, Merciless, old Satyricon, Dissection, Desaster, and even Candlemass among others. However, with the dynamic songcraft the quartet employ across Vientos Arcaicos, as well as the serpentine Spanish tongue, the sum result is exceptionally unique in today's black metal landscape, where many/most bands forget riffs or even actual songwriting itself.

Medieval black metal has a new iteration that's paradoxically old with CALYX's Vientos Arcaicos. The arcane age is here - raise your swords! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Calyx">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.