To drum & bass fans the world over the names Calyx and TeeBee are synonymous with high quality, perfectly sculpted music. Just as Michelangelo discovered statues in blocks of stone, so Calyx and TeeBee discovered the essence of D&B locked away in studio equipment; always forward-thinking and packed with as much integrity as energy; their music has had an impact on the scene for over fifteen years.
While Calyx & TeeBee’s first collaborations emerged in 2004, their history and friendship dates back to 1998 when they were introduced as label-mates of the legendary Moving Shadow imprint. In the following years the two artists accumulated astounding solo back-catalogues of releases on a glittering array of D&B’s most respected labels.
When Calyx and TeeBee finally decided it was time to work together in the studio, the first tracks they produced (‘Follow The Leader’ and ‘Cyclone’) were highly acclaimed by the music press. Both tracks featured on Calyx’s debut album ‘No Turning Back’ and were picked up by Rockstar who used them as the soundtrack for a global TV campaign advertising the colossal ‘Midnight Club’ computer games series.
Following this huge joint success Calyx and TeeBee produced one of the landmark releases of 2006: ‘The Quest’ released on TeeBee’s renowned Subtitles label. In the same year the pair also penned ‘The Shape Of Things To Come’ for Renegade Hardware’s 10 year anniversary album before deciding to embark on the long journey of producing a collaborative album.
Now officially a duet Calyx & TeeBee launched Momentum Music which marked its first release with their debut long player.  The ‘Anatomy’ LP proved to be one of the most highly anticipated albums in D&B for years, gaining massive support from the scene’s big players and topping sales charts for months.
‘Anatomy’ was a game changer, and following its release Calyx & TeeBee decided to embark on non-stop tours across the globe, venturing into joint DJ sets featuring 6 decks and 2 mixers with both DJs in action simultaneously. Meanwhile the duo started to lay groundwork for their follow-up LP which would see them take five years to complete.
Fast forward to 2012 and Calyx & TeeBee are now set to unveil the kaleidoscopic array of new music that they have been building up in that time. Embracing the new possibilities that the bass music revolution has opened up, Calyx & TeeBee’s current musical perspective covers a range of styles and sounds that threaten to change the game once again.
Their sophomore album is set for release on Ram Records, arguably the biggest and most respected drum & bass label in the world and a leading light in the multi-genre bass music scene.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Calyx+&+TeeBee">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.