Camel of Doom formed in 2001 as a one man project by Kris Clayton, then aged just 13. In 2002, Clayton recorded and self released two EPs, "The Song with Rocks In" and "Child of the Scream". Following the positive reaction these recordings received through online zines and forums, Clayton decided to recruit a live band. A drummer was soon found in the form of Tom Sadler, Claytons schoolmate. Finding a suitable second guitarist and bass player proved much harder, and several members came and went throughout the next few years. Due to the revolving door of band members, and no funds or equipment to record Sadler's drums, Clayton proceeded to record the first full length, 2003's "The Desert at Night", by himself. The interest generated by this release led to requests for the band to play live. Rather than waiting till a full line up to materialize, Clayton and Sadler agreed to a debut performance, leaving them a mere two weeks to prepare a set and recruit band members. Laura Whittingham (a close friend of Clayton's sister) was quickly brought in on bass. Another friend, Rosie Potts was brought in to provide saxophone to a couple of late set additions: a pair of Hawkwind covers. Surprisingly, this debut performance went extremely well, giving the band a new springboard to move forward. Having a full line up, and the added element of a Saxophone, the band set off in a new direction, showcased on the "Camel of Doom" release. After a good 18 months of playing live and writing new material, outside pressures and various circumstances caused the band to declare an indefinite hiatus.

2008 update: Camel of Doom are now active once again, currently as a studio only project. The half finished tracks recorded prior to the lengthy break have been finished by Kris Clayton, and will be released soon.  

Discography:
2002 - The Song with Rocks In EP
2002 - Child of the Scream EP
2003 - The Desert at Night
2004 - The Desert at Night (+ bonus tracks)
2004 - Camel of Doom
2006 - Camel of Doom (+ bonus tracks) 
2008 - The Diviners Sage

Last active line-up
Kris Clayton - Guitars, Vocals, Keyboards (Esoteric, ex-Imindain)
Tom Sadler - Drums
Laura Wittingham - Bass
Rosie Potts - Saxophone
Philip Symons - Live Keyboards (Session Member) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Camel+of+Doom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.