Formed in 2010, featuring ex-members of Tangaroa, Executive Distraction Tasks, Hot Prophecy and Nerve Engine. Canaya's sound draws from an uncompromising urge to play powerful heavy music, pulling metal firmly into the 21st Century. 

The debut EP, 'Alignment Of Dying Planets' was released in 2010 to great reviews in Rocksound (8/10), Big Cheese (5/5) and received heavy rotation on Total Rock Radio.

'What the industry has it's sights on' - Metal Hammer

'Alignment Of Dying Planets' is twenty minutes of unremitting ferocity. It’s an aggressively potent EP, the kind of record that will have you smashing yourself across the temple with a hammer afterwards for relief.' - Szikora Press

'Canaya have made soul destroying brutality their business. Their EP has received a wealth of praise from the rock press and the blogosphere beyond, they are unquestionably a band on the rise.' - Big Spaceship

'Combining a voice with the caustic power of Norma Jean with some seriously Mastodon-esque riffs, Canaya’s EP is a violent twenty-minute pole-axe to the temple.' - Heavy Blog Is Heavy

'It certainly has that ‘ugly’ sort of flair to it and is a brutal as a herd of rhinos on the charge.' - Metal Team UK

'Canaya are like a breath of fresh air!' - Ginger, The Wildhearts

Gigs have followed at Damnation Festival, Brew Records, Big Spaceship, Brainwash, British Wildlife amongst many others. 

Shared the stage with the likes of Narrows, Keelhaul, Knut, Coliseum, Humanfly, Melt Banana, Hawk Eyes, Brontide and Lavotchkin.

The video for the single, 'Dios Muerto', became a YouTube favourite and caught the attention of Ginger from The Wildhearts, who asked Simon to record guest vocals on his 'Mutation' album.

With a host of new material, Canaya have released their sophomore EP 'Sealed Within The Walls'.

Canaya are:
Simon Wright - Vocals
Owen Wilson - Guitars/Vocals
Chris Wilson - Bass/Vocals
Andy Richards - Drums

Influences:
Metallica, Pantera, Anthrax, Sepultura, Entombed, Crowbar, Unsane, Mastodon <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Canaya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.