There are five artists with this name:

1.) Cancer is a British Death Metal band formed one night in 1988 down the Tontine pub in Ironbridge by original members Carl Stokes, John Walker and Ian Buchanan. They quickly put together a demo in the Pits (Studio) called 'No Fuckin Cover Demo', sent out the demo and got signed to Vinyl Solution. They then started a diet of writing and playing live with such bands as Bomb Disneyland, Bolt Thrower, Cerebral Fix and GBH.

2.) A Danish duo formed in 2014 consisting of Nikolaj Manuel Vonsild (When Saints Go Machine) and Kristian Finne Kristensen (Chorus Grant). www.cancermissyou.com

3.) Cancer is a one-man depressive black metal band from the Ukraine. The current status of this band is active. The only known webpage for this band is it's MySpace page - www.myspace.com/cancerudbm.  Cancer has released at least one album, "Clinical Depression," though it is currently unknown if physical copies of this album exist or if it is just a download-only album.

4.) Cancer is a three person rap group from New Zealand http://www.myspace.com/cancernz A washed up male model/ folk singer, an agoraphobic weed head and a smut peddling alcoholic sound more suited to group therapy than a recording studio. But as the saying goes; opposites attract, you can’t judge a book by its cover and sometimes a bunch of useless cunts make some good music. The groups called Cancer and there goal in the words of Louie knuxx is to” make the most depressing album ever”. the before mentioned washed up male model is Lubin mcfien lead singer in Auckland country band the Vietnam war who brings his fading good looks to what is not the prettiest bunch of lads. Rounding out the group is Christchurch emcee Jay roacher who doesn’t like to leave his house let alone the south island. So far there’ve taken some nice photos but word is there’ll be an album early next year. Since the entire band are smokers at the very least it‘ll be worth getting for ironies sake.

5.) Cancer is a depressive black metal band from Perth, Western Australia formed in 2016. Their first EP, Terminal was released in October of the same year followed by a full-length album titled Into The Heartless Silence released July 2018

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cancer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.