The name Candle applies to at least 5 bands:

1) Candle was a short-lived emo/hardcore from CA, active in the early 1990s. They released a split 7" with Antioch Arrow on Gravity Records and a self-titled 7" on Wrenched. Their singer went to form Yaphet Kotto. Their music is so 1993.


2) Candle is an indie folk-rock band featuring the songwriting of Kevin Coons, joined by bandmates Jon Wilson, Ross Major, Rachel Spotten, and Paul Frankel. 

It began as a solo project when Kevin moved to college and wrote and performed post-rock influenced songs on his own, and eventually grew and developed to encompass the lineup found today, which has participated in many local shows as well as two west coast tours.

The first album, "Birds Were Meant To Fly," was released in September of 2006. 
A split 7" with band member Ross Major's side project iamb, entitled "Come Back Home," was also released by Real Love Records on July 12th, 2007.

Candle has recently completed recording for a second full-length album, entitled "Miles and Miles and Miles," which will be released March 22nd, 2008.

3) Candle is a Christian band that is best known for their Agapeland related children's albums Music Machine and Bullfrogs and Butterflies. They recorded children's albums for Sparrow Records' Birdwing branch.

They have won many awards including the Dove Award. They have also been nominated for a Grammy Award .

4) Candle is the original name of the French indie/dreampop band Carmine. They changed their name in the early 1990s to avoid conflict with at least one of the other Candles.

5) Candle  is a Swedish heavy metal band out of Sandviken, Sweden, signed by Fighter Records. Markus Janis and Christian Kanto (from Corrosive Carcass) on guitars, brothers Jorma and Juhani Pihlajainen on drums and bass and the singer Eric Nordquist (former singer of Blazon Stone). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Candle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.