Candle Serenade, formed out of Porto, Portugal in 1993, was a Melodic Black Metal band with Doom and Death Metal influences until their decision of splitting up in 1996.
At the time, the band consisted of:

Odranoel - vocals
Belfegor - guitar
Nihassa - bass
Demogorgon - keyboards
Vrolok - drums

During the presence of forming the band before the end of 1993 there was a substantial amount of discrepancies with Odranoel after he found it quite senseless that corpse-paint was involved for the band and therefore he left the band. Subsequently, Odranoel continued focusing on his studies of philosophy, psychology and sociology in the University of Porto the following year.

In March of 1994, they were looking for a new vocalist in order to record their first demo. At first it seemed complicated to find vocalist who'd show reliance when it comes to lyrical themes consisting of vampire themes and paganism - and finally; a young and experienced musician who had the decency to find the band: his name was Stregoyck who at the time was a vocalist/rhythm guitarist.

And for their time they wasted no time whatsoever by recording a one-track demo which was known as Tales of Walspurgis. It was recorded in June 1994 and was released the following month. In December 1994 they recorded their first album and for them it took them nearly two months to complete the album due to recording conflicts with the producer.

And in March of 1995, they've released their first and only album Nosferatu's Passion. Potential distributors were interested to distribute the album worldwide including: Impure Creations Records, Nazgul's Eyrie Productions and Miscarriage Records. But it was signed on to Portugese record label Guardians of Metal. The album was sold to 500 copies for its time and it was a cult favorite for Portugese metal fans.

In September of 1995: a second album was recorded and they tried to make a distribution deal with a now defunct Austrian record label Lethal Records, but they weren't interested and to this day it's still shelved. Unfortunately things went from bad to worse when Belfegor was under the influence of alcohol which he was subsequently fired from his position as a guitarist for the band. After numerous unsuccessful attempts to find a replacing guitarist they decided to split up in February of 1996.

Today Stregoyck (his real name is Daniela Portela) is an editor of a fanzine known as Metalkraft. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Candle+Serenade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.