Candiria is a band from Brooklyn, New York. They blend various styles of music including metal, hardcore, jazz, and rap. Candiria have often dubbed their sound "Urban fusion".

Candiria was initially formed in 1992 by vocalist Carley Coma, guitarists Chris Puma and Eric Matthews, drummer Kenneth Schalk, and bassist Michael MacIvor. Even early on they were creating unusual music, with vocals that ranged from dry barks to rap. Chris and Eric's guitar have set Candiria's rhythmic style as riffing with little melody interrupted by jazzy chord progressions during the jazz breaks. Ken Schalk's drumming often consists of laying down a groove while staying true to the non-conventional time signatures that dominate the music, paired up with Michael's unusual bass lines. Michael, in fact, may be the least metal-influenced member of the group, as apparent in his melodically complex basslines which frequently do not follow the guitar riffs.

Chris Puma was replaced by John Lamacchia before 1997's Beyond Reasonable Doubt, while Lamacchia himself left the band after 2004's What Doesn't Kill You.... The latter album features a cover photograph of the band's van after a heavy traffic accident it endured in 2002. It took the band members considerable time to recover from their injuries.

As of 2005, Eric Matthews is no longer in the band.

Drummer Ken Schalk has been involved in a free-jazz side project named Ghosts Of The Canal, who have thus far released two full-length albums, Sessions from the Flats (1999) and Five Episodes From the Subconsious (2002), as well as two non-album tracks which appeared on the bonus disc of Candiria's The C.O.M.A. Imprint.

"Candiria" is plural for "candiru," a small blood-sucking Amazonian fish that lodges itself in the urethras of unwary bathers.


Discography

Albums
1994 - Subliminal (Demo Tape)
1995 - Surrealistic Madness (Too Damn Hype) 
1997 - Beyond Reasonable Doubt (Too Damn Hype) 
1999 - The Process Of Self-Development (MIA Records) 
2001 - 300 Percent Density (Century Media) 
2002 - The Coma Imprint (Lakeshore) 
2004 - What Doesn't Kill You... (Type A) 
2008 - Kiss The Lie

The C.O.M.A. Imprint
Not exactly a proper album, this is in fact a re-recording of Candiria's 1997 album Beyond Reasonable Doubt, featuring newly remastered and/or recorded songs. It includes a bonus disc which features songs from several bands signed to Carley Coma's label C.O.M.A., as well as two songs from Ghosts of the Canal.

2002 - The C.O.M.A. Imprint (Lakeshore)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Candiria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.