CANNAE (KA-nigh) is named after one of history's most celebrated military achievements, taking place in the summer of 216 BCE. Hannibal led his troops through the Alps, elephants in tow, into Italy and defeated the numerically superior Roman army.

From the evaporation of original membersí previous bands (fortydaysrain, Ookla The Mok and Grimlock), CANNAE immediately came out swinging the release of their debut album, Troubleshooting Death in 2000. An all out slugfest, Troubleshooting Death was produced by Kurt Ballou (Converge, Cave In), and helped usher in the rising success of the metal and hardcore scene in Massachusetts upon its release, making CANNAE a force to be reckoned with.

After a succession of successful Northeast shows and tours alongside the demise of the bandís first record label, CANNAE inked a deal with Los Angelesí Prosthetic Records. 2003 saw the band release their Prosthetic debut, Horror, produced by Killswitch Engageís Adam Dutkiewicz. Shortly after the release of Horror, in the midst of mass praise, drummer Michael Boutillette left the band. After a summer tour with a last-minute session drummer, Colin Conway (Frozen, ex-The Year of Our Lord) took over the drum throne. After touring extensively with metal heavyweights Chimaira, Soilwork, Bury Your Dead, Bleeding Through, As I Lay Dying and 3 Inches of Blood, CANNAE saw more line-up changes within their ranks. Bassist Daniel Campenella and guitarist Jason Zucco went their ways in the spring of 2004. Shortly thereafter, Shane Frisby (then the bandís tour manager) came into the fold already knowing the songs. He quickly snatched up a bass and has been pounding it out ever since. Still lacking a second guitarist, numerous shows were played throughout New England with Zucco filling in until a suitable replacement could be found.

After coming out of countless auditions for a new guitar player empty-handed, the band headed down to Florida as a four-piece to record GOLD BECOMES SACRIFICE with producer Jason Suecof (Trivium, God Forbid) in early 2005. Conway handled the drumming and second guitarist responsibilities, temporarily filling the vacant spot. Guest solos from both Suecof and the legendary James Murphy (Death, Obituary, Testament) were laid down for inclusion GOLD BECOMES SACRIFICE. . It wasn't until the end of the recording process that CANNAE met guitarist Alex Vieira (Capharnaum) who was more than eager to join up and record a few solos of his own.

Swinging in full force with the juggernaut GOLD BECOMES SACRIFICE behind them, CANNAE hits the metal scene with their most focused and mature effort to date. Showcasing rabid musical intensity and technicality, combined with vocalist Adam DuLongís harsh, yet articulate vocals and unparalleled fret board talent, GOLD BECOMES SACRIFICE is an abrasive, brutal record for fans of metal and hardcore alike. This is one record that will separate CANNAE from the rest of the crowd, catapulting the band above and beyond the current trends and fashions in metal.

Hannibal and his motley troopsí historic victory over the superior Roman forces teaches everyone an important lesson that war is often won with intangibles such as fierce dedication and unity towards a common purpose. Such is the case for CANNAE, a band with unparalleled dedication and intensity. GOLD BECOMES SACRIFICE is just the beginning.
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cannae">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.