Cannabis Corpse is a marijuana-themed death metal band. 

The band formed in Richmond, Virginia in 2006 under the Forcefield label. Since then, Cannabis Corpse has released five LPs and one EP. The band features members of Municipal Waste, GWAR, and Antietam 1862. Their name originates from a parody of the name for veteran death metal band Cannibal Corpse. While the Cannabis Corpse songs are fully original, their album and song titles are parodies of many other death metal bands' album and song titles (e.g. "Tube of the Resinated" vs Cannibal Corpse's "Tomb of the Mutilated").

In 1999, bassist/guitarist Philip "Landphil" Hall coined the "Cannabis Corpse" name with his brother Josh "HallHammer" Hall. The original line up had Landphil on vocals and a recruit named John Gonzalez (of Nehema) on guitar. John moved to Hawaii and the band was put on hold until 2006, when Phil bought a multitrack recorder. The brothers, along with Andy "Weedgrinder" Horn recorded a demo for the band, which eventually became Blunted at Birth. Soon thereafter, they were signed as the first band to Richmond, Virginia-based Forcefield Records whose founders were personal friends. Guitarist Nick "Nikropolis" Poulos of the band Parasytic, who was also a friend of the band, was asked to join prior to the first live performance by the band on April 20, 2007.

Brent Purgason joined the band in 2010 prior to the U.S. tour with Hate Eternal. The band would do their first and last shows as a five piece in 2010. Brent left the band temporarily but would continue to fill in when needed. Andy and Nick left the band permanently in late 2011 to pursue other interests in which Phil would take over vocal duties and Brent would return to the band indefinitely.

Cannabis Corpse appear briefly in the BBC film In The Loop.

Cannabis Corpse toured Europe in 2013 with Ghoul, and announced that they had signed to Season of Mist on their website. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cannabis+Corpse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.