Forming together in the city of Decatur, GA, the east metro-area of Atlanta; Cannabis Club ATL is comprised of four  artists from different worlds. Each add their own personal vibe to the group’s stylized Hip Hop sound.

The group’s manifestation came about through Atlanta’s nightlife music scene by, Columbus, GA native and first member The Legendary FRUITMAN. As the label’s visionary, he is the creative force as executive producer, writer, and arranger, at Money Tree Entertainment. In addition to handling A&R, he is the master-mind at the helm of the  Money Tree sound emanating from studio productions for all of the label’s roster and exclusive brands, Fruitman is Money Tree’s CEO who planned and executed the unique artistry of Cannabis Club ATL singles and musical collaborations. 

TRAPACANA, born in Frankfurt, Germany raised in Columbus, GA., began his love and appreciation for music listening to his parent’s (who were music aficionados) Blues, R&B and Pop albums. His musical influences were James Brown, Michael Jackson, Donnie Hathaway and Marvin Gaye. He started recording and performing as a teenager in the South Eastern area. As his music and stage presence developed, he started writing lyrics, hooks and arranging tracks for other artists that were also part, of the regional underground circuit. Trapacana sees himself as having an impact in the music industry and Money Tree Entertainment by keeping his ears in the streets; looking for ways to incorporate today’s new sounds, into his recordings.

Like an uncommon force of nature, that moves the Nile River south to north from Lake Victoria to the Mediterranean Sea so drives the strength, of group member N.I.L.E. He describes his beats as an energetic, spirited river that flows throughout a song. Also a Columbus, GA resident, his music mentors came from his grandfather’s R&B album collections. As a 9-year-old, N.I.L.E. took to the stage performing cover songs by Crucial Conflict, Bone, Thugs-n-Harmony and Do or Die, at the East Columbus Boys Club talent shows. He credits group UGK “Ridin’ Dirty” as the defining album that changed his life. It is where his transition from teen to young adult to up and coming recording artist were seeded. He would write songs that expressed his pain or feelings he harbored inside during that time, in his life. 

Cannabis Clubs ATL’s final added member and only female of the group is MANAL. Although born and raised in Sydney, Australian, she defines herself as “A Palestinian by way of Australia” – never wanting to forget the historical struggles that her people have endured. Manal carries her own brand of woman empowerment among the three guys in Cannabis Club by adding her vocals to the mix. At the age of 4, she learned how to speak English by singing-along to Culture Club’s “Karma Chameleon” around the house. By age 14, she started developing herself as a lyricist by writing songs in both Arabic and English. She sharpened her abilities as a performer in front of live audiences at Sydney’s Arab festivals and weddings where she would sing traditional Arab songs for the adults and Top 40 Pop hits for the youth, in attendance. The Arabic youth community would prove itself to becoming a strong base for Manal’s indie showcases and concerts. Enough so, that she was able to craft her own style of music to record with her band. During that point in her life, she and her band produced 15 hit Arabic singles and albums that charted on radio stations in Australian. The rigorous demands of performing and touring took her to London, Toronto, Canada and then onto the U.S., Atlanta, where she met The Legendary Fruitman through a sound engineer.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cannabis+Club+ATL">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.