Cap De Craniu is a death metal / grindcore / metal band from Bucharest, Romania, formed in spring 2007. 
Shortly after they formed the band, CDC(Cap De Craniu) released "First EP for a Surgery", in April 2007, being credited with defining the Romanian grindcore scene by incorporating elements of hardcore and punk, vocals with severe growls and squeals reflected in horror and social lyrics.
CDC was formed in Bucharest, the capital of Romania, in March 2007 by Calin Raduta and Costin Chioreanu, who were already playing in numerous local bands and projects since the early '90s (H8, Hang Him, Kendo, Crize, Protest Urban, Deviant, Nightpray, My Shadow, Discordless, Subway Night Orchestra, Retribution, Sistem Nervos, etc).
The duo was inspired by horror and gore movies similar to "Evil Dead", mostly creating stories around a fictive character(Laur, the protagonist in all their lyrics), about the human kind in our days and also giving an ironical meaning to the most common social disorders(as they say: "if you want get past evil, smile first!").
The first stable line-up of the group consisted of Calin Raduta on guitar, Costin Chioreanu on bass, Razvan Raduta Penda on drums and Dragos Drunea on vocals. CDC consists of 4 members and, besides music, they have some strong points in music engineering, graphic design and video production. They became a DIY group, self releasing "First EP for a surgery" and performing at many important concerts and festivals along bands like Suffocation, Rotting Christ, or Parkway Drive.
After entering their own studio to record "I'll Kill If I Live", the fifth member Radu Ionascu joined CDC on guitar.
In the summer of 2011, the band faced a period of hardship, with 3 of the members quitting the band.
As a duo group, the two brothers, Calin and Razvan decided to collaborate with Metalfan Records Division and finished producing the debut album, called "I'll Kill If I Live", released during the spring of 2012.
Constantly thinking forward, seeking the best for the future band structure, they chose to recruit Nicolae Paul as the bassist and not one, but two vocalists: Mihai Ionescu and Vicentiu 'Averac' Busuioc, in order to reach the look and the sound of a higher dimension.
With the new Cap de Craniu line up, the guys finished converting the vocal line of the new album fitting both vocalists in all the shows they'll perform, already enthusiastic about the new material they're about to compose in this formula. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cap+de+Craniu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.