“If ‘Moonglow’ is any indicator of what the band has in store for us, it is a safe guess that we are all bound to be hearing the name Cape Cub quite a lot more.” – Live Nation’s Ones To Watch

“Cape Cub’s unique brand of dream-pop has seen millions of streams descend upon his music, and as 2018 continues, so does Cape Cub’s inevitable continuation of his ascendancy to the top” – tmrw

“His talent shines so brightly that it should be pretty clear that there are some big things in store for him” – The 405

“The North East newcomer is on course for the mainstream thanks to the intelligent accessibility of his songcraft” – The Line Of Best Fit

“Quietly euphoric in a neat, uplifting, and highly melodic manner. Tune in now.” – Clash

“With a sound that will melt people’s hearts, UK’s Cape Cub has a chance to be a star” – Revue

Hailing from the shores of the picturesque North East coast, Cape Cub started life as the solo project of award-winning UK based songwriter and producer Chad Male. Now joined by four bandmates, Cape Cub released their first full band single ‘Moonglow’ on Friday 13th July 2018.

“This was never meant to be one person” explained Chad. “The whole thing started out as a project on my laptop. It’s now got to a crazy point where millions have people have listened to my demos and EPs across the world and the live show has grown into something I just couldn’t have imagined back when it first started. Our fans are literally the sweetest people, there’s a lot of them kicking about these days, and it’s because of them that this project has transformed into what it is. Like I said, this was never meant to be, or be about, one person.

“Musically, and I swear this is without immodesty, we take our cues from the arenas. We’re unashamed of saying some of our biggest influences are the ones we grew up listening to like The Killers, U2, Springsteen, The Eagles, Kate Bush, Death Cab For Cutie and The Cure. Those are the acts that aren’t scared of having that fire in their hearts. We’re equally informed by the intimate, hauntingly beautiful melodies and prose of the likes of Joni Mitchell and even Bon Iver, too.”

Back in 2015, Chad generated a tidal wave of online attention with his first song ‘Swim’, which found its way to the top of the Hype Machine chart and gained national airplay via BBC Radio 1.

Recorded in his mum’s loft, the track inhibited a haze of atmosphere and had tastemakers across the globe drawing comparisons to the likes of London Grammar, Coldplay and Aquilo. Rami’s remix of the track has since been licensed to Disco:Wax and Black Butter, picking up over 17.5 million Spotify streams along the way.

In 2016, Male self-released the ‘Closer’ and ‘6am’ EPs as an introduction to his heartfelt and grippingly spacious sound, gaining millions of plays on Spotify and extensive support from Apple Music, before retreating back into his studio to carve his way forward.

Where the ‘Closer’ EP drew upon Chad’s attachment to the stunning landscape and industrial decline around his home in the remote coastal village Marske-by-the-Sea, ‘6am’ absorbed more human themes: growing up and moving on, fighting the loss of youthful optimism, pursuing long-term ambitions, all whilst trying to maintain vital friendships and family ties.

“Every one of my songs is honest, and I’m prescribed to the notion that you need to write from a real place or what’s the point?” explained Chad.

A trio of singles for LAB Records followed in 2017 and after signing a synch agreement with Lava Records in LA, 2018 kicked into gear with ‘Keep Me In Mind‘ featuring on ABC shows Grey’s Anatomy and Deception.

With national radio plays from Huw Stephens and Phil Taggart on BBC Radio 1 and John Kennedy on Radio X already under their belt, Cape Cub have also been fortunate to pick up plenty of support from BBC Introducing and Amazing Radio.

Building on supports with the likes of Fickle Friends, Picture This, Sunset Sons and Clean Cut Kid, the latest raft of Cape Cub headline shows have been nothing short of euphoric.

Chad said, “The last few shows have been an absolute dream. No one can tell you how it feels to have your songs sung back at you like that. We can’t wait to get back in the van and play our music for you all.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cape+Cub">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.