As a Producer, Vocalist, DJ, Antoine Green aka Capitol A has been involved in music professionally for the past 13 years. Coming from a musical background, you could say he was pre-destined for this career since his conception. Born to a Multi- Instrumentalist Father, it was the life changing experience of watching his Father play that would be the inspiration and turning point that would shape his desire to become a musician. Taught Guitar by his Father he would quickly learn the fundamentals of musicology..but it was the piano that would fully peek his interest from then on. Having toured with live bands as a Vocalist and Musician, not only further validates his talent as a Performer ,but also in a DJ setting he is equally at home or in the Studio creating music.

As a Producer and Vocalist, he has worked with a WHOíS WHOin music, artist such as The Roots, Jazzanova, Bebel Gilberto, King Britt, Suzanne Vega to 4Hero and whole host of others show evidence of an impressive artist resume, currently working on his own FuLL Length LP, with guest help from 4Hero, Seiji (Bugz in the Attic) and Sonar Kollektiv (Jazzanova). Having toured and still a member of King Britt's SYLK 130 Band as a vocalist and Producer, which showcases his knack for the Live Stage Setting. With an extensive Discography of Original music, his production skills range from Hip-Hop to House to many styles beyond and all things in between.

As a DJ , he can be seen/heard all around the globe spinning at some of the hottest venues, clubs such as Fabric(UK), Plastic People (UK), Robert Johnson's (Frankfurt), Watergate (Berlin) to a whole host of others, currently residing in San Francisco, he can be heard at some of the biggest venues in the city (Ruby Skye ,1015 Folsom, W Hotel ) spinning a varied selection of soulful and forward thinking new music building a HUGE fan following in San Fran not only for his productions but especially as a DJ. Headlining with acts like King Britt, Truby Trio, Jazzanova, 4Hero, Joe Clausell and so on.

http://www.myspace.com/therealcapitola <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Capitol+A">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.