1)Punk-Rock from Hamburg, Germany.
Captain Planet founded some years ago released their first 7inch EP on unterm durchschnitt (2005) and are coming up with a brandnew full-length october 2007 - "wasser kommt wasser geht".

The band is a continuous change without falling apart or collapsing in its. But they are neither writing songs that gos easily in our ear that they would fit into your record collection out of habit. Euphoric moments between melody and staccato are coined by lyrics written to the point. Captain Planet is not just writing lyrics that fit on the beat. Maybe you even ask yourself while listening what was there first? Long live poetry and diversity! You listen to it and horizons made of memories and emotions open up in front of you. Did we experience that together?

Music is desire that comes from memory and memory that comes from desire, and desire to be child and desire to grow up again. And-there you go- the moment you get what you want, you want to change it for something different. Captain Planet is the most intense emotion. It is so much more than a short adventure, and that ties you down.

2) Captain Planet is a dance funk / world breakbeat musician.

Coming from an early background in punk rock and rap music, Charlie B. Wilder (aka Captain Planet) began making hip-hop beats at an early age on archaic equipment, digging for samples in the usual Funk, Soul and Jazz wells –all the while developing a taste for Reggae and African music. After being offered a primetime slot playing strictly international music on WNYU’s “Passport” radio show, Wilder began digging deeper and deeper into music from Africa, the West Indies, India, Latin America and the Far East – eventually coming into possession of the entire World music section of Lincoln Center’s Public Library. Flipping these same World records the way Hip-Hop producers traditionally sample, these international sounds began creeping into the tracks that the Captain was producing for a few Hip-Hop groups at the time. After realizing these beats stood on their own and could function as a different kind of dance music, Wilder’s “Gumbo Funk” style of production was born. His 2005 debut 12” on Bastard Jazz sold thousands of copies and led to remixes for artists like Vieux Farka Toure, Alice Russell and The Pimps of Joytime – not to mention placements on HBO’s Entourage and CBS’s CSI:NY

Since then Wilder has released 2 more successful Captain Planet EP's on Bastard Jazz Records as well as a slew of remixes (both bootleg & official) for the likes of Little Dragon, Erykah Badu, Mayer Hawthorne, Mia Doi Todd, and Gilles Peterson's Havana Cultura project. His eclectic music blog MixtapeRiot.com has become a popular go-to for DJ's, tastemakers, and music lovers worldwide- providing them with a steady stream of underground dance music, exlcusive remixes, and DJ mixes. The Captain's debut full-length album "Cookin' Gumbo" is the culmination of his many years constantly producing music and searching for new sounds. Blending a wide range of styles (from NY hip hop, to NOLA funk, to Nigerian Afrobeat and beyond), Captain Planet's trademark sound has matured into a truly unique form of electronic music- bridging gaps between worldwide music diasporas as well as contemporary dance music sub-genres (house, hip hop, dubstep & breaks). Throughout every Captain Planet song, the focus remains very clearly on keeping it fun & funky. 

3) Captain Planet is a DJ. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Captain+Planet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.