CARACAL is the result of 5 irregular everyday souls with a love for creating what they know as music. Choosing to have the moxie tread outside of music trends and not be confined to any particular genre, CARACAL are here to challenge the tone of the current underground music scene. Known for their innovative style that is constantly evolving through their discerning and often haphazard songwriting that feels almost maniacal yet subtly transcendent all at once.
With a long awaited album, they march on to the front lines. Driven by a desire to create honest and influential music, backed with strong rock sensibility and intensely personal lyrics, CARACAL's debut full- length album 'BEAR. SHARK. WOLF.' is the unintended but absolute aftermath of the quintet's ruthless and chivalrous identity invigorated by their urgent pursuit of rock with a peerless blend of infectious melodies humbled by the very simple idea of 'Song'. Creatively inspired by eclectic artistes such as Incubus, Foo Fighters, Thrice, Emery and Norma Jean, 'BEAR. SHARK. WOLF.' is record of a band captured in its genuinely raw and youthful stage, ready and willing to risk everything regardless of what critics might say.
Purposefully embracing an unorthodox approach with the intent to reach the masses, CARACAL's debut album 'BEAR. SHARK. WOLF.' will be released digitally as a free download through their website- caracalnoise.com. The album will also be available as a physical product in CD which includes 2 bonus songs.
CARACAL spent their first few years throttling forward with haste and had the esteemed honor and fortuities to play show after show at small clubs to renowned festivals such as Baybeats (2007 & 2008) with bands and musicians locally and internationally, leaving their audience paralyzed by their clever yet commanding live performances. Upon the release of their debut Phoenix EP in 2009, CARACAL dove headfirst into their own headlining tour throughout China consisting of 9 cities. Only to be invited the following year to perform at China's biggest music event, MIDI Festival 2010 in Beijing, China. With their relentless and undeniable energy, CARACAL awakens listeners with their matchless desire to rock and roll that leaves you somewhere between discombobulated and allured to the CARACAL charm that has garnered a rabid fanbase that could only be described as a blessing.
CARACAL embraces the evolution of their forthcoming album as a new beast that will leave a mark in 2011. 'BEAR. SHARK. WOLF' will be launched in January and the ardent quintet are armed and set to hit the road. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Caracal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.