Carcharodon started their engine in 2003, for the willing of two brothers, Boggio and Pixo, trying to blend in the right quantity Old School Death Metal with Blues and Hard Rock, composing handle-bar riffs.
In the winter of 2004, after a year and a half of research, the two brothers found the third member (the drummer): Zack “Muddy Pancia”, current adventure-mate in their research for a lethal combustion of Hard Rock, Blues and strongly sex based Death Metal.
To avoid the inclusion of another band member, Pixo passed on bass guitar, also goin’ on playing the role of growler and others’ girlfriends stealer, leaving Boggio on guitars.  In this way the band grows up strongly in a trio, as like as in the pure rock tradition.
After some months of rehearsals, they decided to record their first live in studio: “KAMASUTRA” at CDM studios in Genoa, as first evidence of their brutal ignorance, and first strike on CD for Zack.
In January 2006 they recorded “PELVIS”, the first demo for Carcharodon. Containing 7 songs recorded in one day, it is a display of desertic death metal, with stoner and blues influences.
In occasion of the Fenarina Rock Festival, the band has presented live and distributed their new promo CD, “LAS FECAS”, a tribute to wild and dissolute vices, that will make the dick of thousands bikers and truckers grow harder, for the presence of motor-riffs and cheap-beer-stinky growls. 
Their new cd “Macho Metal”, recorded between November 2007 and March 2008, is finally out, including 9 tracks of pure adrenaline-rock-galore ready to burst into your earphones. 
Carcharodon is now doing lots of gigs across Italy and Europe and will be playing some shows in the US in October 2008 (NY and California – more news on our myspace). 
They're still looking for a label who would help them spread their word across the globe, because they really feel that this dying planet deserves some MACHO METAL to rise again!
Enjoy the ride into Carcharodon's world! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carcharodon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.