Belcalis Marlenis Almánzar (born October 11, 1992), known professionally as Cardi B, is an American rapper and songwriter. Born and raised in New York City, she became an Internet celebrity by achieving popularity on Vine and Instagram. From 2015 to 2017, she appeared as a regular cast member on the VH1 reality television series Love & Hip Hop: New York, which depicted her pursuit of her music aspirations. She released two mixtapes—Gangsta Bitch Music, Vol. 1 and Vol. 2, before signing with label Atlantic Records in early 2017.

Her debut studio album, Invasion of Privacy (2018), debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, broke several streaming records, was certified triple platinum by the RIAA and named by Billboard the top female rap album of the 2010s. Critically acclaimed, it won the Grammy Award for Best Rap Album, making Cardi B the only woman to win the award as a solo artist, as well as the first female rap artist in 15 years to be nominated for Album of the Year. It spawned two number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100; "Bodak Yellow", which made her the only female rapper to achieve a Diamond-certified song by the RIAA, and the second female rapper to top the chart with a solo output following Lauryn Hill in 1998, and "I Like It", which made her the first female rapper to attain multiple number-one songs on the chart. Her Maroon 5 collaboration "Girls Like You" made her the only female rapper to top the Hot 100 three times. "WAP", the lead single of her second album, made her the only female rap artist to achieve Billboard Hot 100 chart-topping singles in two decades (2010s and 2020s). "Up", the following single, made her the only female rapper to achieve multiple Hot 100 number ones with solo songs, and extended her record as the female rapper with the most Hot 100 number-one singles as her fifth leader.

Recognized by Forbes as one of the most influential female rappers of all time, Cardi B is known for her aggressive flow and candid lyrics, which have received widespread media coverage. She is the highest-certified female rapper of all time on the RIAA's Top Artists (Digital Singles) ranking, also appearing among the ten highest-certified female artists. She is the female rapper with the most billion-streamers on Spotify, and became the first artist to top the inaugural Billboard Global 200. Her accolades include a Grammy Award, eight Billboard Music Awards, five Guinness World Records, five American Music Awards, eleven BET Hip Hop Awards and two ASCAP Songwriter of the Year awards. In 2018 Time magazine included her on their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world, and in 2020, Billboard honored her as Woman of the Year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cardi+B">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.