Care Bears on Fire is a Brooklyn-based band that consists of Sophie (vocals and guitar), Izzy (drums) and Jena (bass). The group originally formed in 2005 with member Lucio (bass). The band labels itself as a Pop punk group, mixing in Alternative and Garage elements. The band released their first, full length LP, I Stole Your Animal on September 28th, 2007, at a release party in Brooklyn. Their second album, "Get Over It,' was released in July 2009 on S-Curve Records. Sophie and Izzy are in 9th grade, and Jena is in 10th.

Care Bears on Fire formed in 2005 when Sophie, Lucio and Isadora "Izzy" were in 5th grade. They settled on the name Care Bears on Fire because they liked the idea of mixing something sweet with something edgy.
The band got their big break when New York Magazine did a profile on the three in the summer of 2006. After this article was published, Care Bears on Fire shot into the limelight with sources such as Spin Magazine calling Care Bears "...key players in the burgeoning New York kid-core scene..." As time pressed on, their gigging schedule picked up, and were eventually playing regular shows. They released their first EP, Confuse Me on Beautiful Records at a show in 2006, quickly selling out and paving the way for bigger things.

In February 2007, the aspiring trio had their Manhattan debut at Pianos, an event which wasn't advertised as all ages, however most of the crowd had been much older than any of the band members. Shortly after their Big Apple debut, the band began working on new material.
The band formally released their debut LP, I Stole Your Animal on October 2nd, 2007, and four days prior (September 28, 2007) at a release party in Manhattan. The album received positive reviews from critics, publications such as Detour stating that "The songs are catchy, with an earnest rhythm section backing up the same big guitar chords the grownup garage-punk bands use...", and Anna Creech Blogcritics Magazine praising the album as "...a must-have for modern rock fans."
Sophie is featured on a 2007 Converse ad, playing an acoustic version of their song, "Everybody Else".

Since the release of I Stole Your Animal, Care Bears on Fire have played several major festivals and events including the week-long Texas music festival SXSW and the packed out Underage Festival in London. Lucio left the band in April 2008 and was replaced by Lulu in June 2008. Lulu toured with Care Bears on Fire for five months. Her last show was October 4, 2008. Jena joined the band shortly after and played on the band's sessions for their new album.

Care Bears on Fire recently released their second full-length album "Get Over It," on S-Curve Records July 14th, 2009. While the band wrote most of the material themselves, they collaborated with Fountains of Wayne's Adam Schlesinger and Travis Clark of We The Kings on a handful of songs. The album also includes an all-new version of the song "Everybody Else," produced by Steve Greenberg and S*A*M and Sluggo, which was released on iTunes as a single in January 2009. The band played the Bamboozle Festival in Spring 2009.
They are touring with The Naked Brothers Band in July/August 2009 and performed two shows on the Kidzapalooza stage at Lollapalooza 2009 in Grant Park, Chicago Illinois. On August 26th, 2009, Care Bears on Fire made their Network television debut on David Letterman playing their single "Everybody Else". The show was repeated on September 15th, 2009.

Discography
•Confuse Me (EP) (2006) 
•I Stole Your Animal (2007) 
•Get Over It! (2009) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Care+Bears+On+Fire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.