A Progressive Cathartic Experience.

Professionalism and dedication are the ways in which Carmeria has evolved to the band they are. Forming from Campbelltown in June 2012, the young band have successfully played alongside Hemina, LORD, and Caligula’s Horse, as well as featuring in the line-up for Campbelltown’s Fishers Gig 2012 with headliners Closure in Moscow and Hunting Grounds. Carmeria were hand-picked for FLYLEAF's Australian national New Horizons album tour in August 2013. The band use ideas and opinions to create an experience the audience has never seen before.

Establishing themself as a ‘progressive heavy rock’ band, they seek to appeal to wider audiences by displaying emotive and technical progressions through their song writing and appearance. With the image being of professional and individual nature, Carmeria stay true to being artists and not just entertainers.

David Eaton from the progressive rock band ANUBIS states, “Carmeria takes their cue from progressive metal, but have successfully grafted seductive melodies and classical harmony into their sound. Dynamic, youthful and at times starkly emotional, these young South West Sydney quintets have much to offer fans of Nightwish, Dream Theater, Evergrey & Evanescence.”

The band’s songwriting is predominantly inspired by loss and accepting it as a result of band member’s personal experiences. Through their patience and perseverance they have worked their way into the music industry by practicing diligently and slowly launching their name.

After forming the band, 2012 has been an eventful year and has shown no sign of losing that momentum anytime soon. Carmeria has definitely become reputable, not just in their hometown but also stretching to listeners around Sydney.

“Great mix of simple/technical/shred/feel” – Mark Furtner of LORD.

"...a female fronted pop infused metal band, incorporating flashy glam licks coupled with stomping bass section. Swedish influenced euro metal, a la Amorphis forced through Evanescence with snappy breakdowns." - Luke Cowan, Reverb Street Press.

"A mix of Dream Theater and Florence and the Machine." - Sameer Bhattacharya of Flyleaf.

Bio by Erika Vass. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carmeria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.