Formed in 1997 by Jari Kuusisto & Stefan Westerberg, CARNAL FORGE released its debut, "Who's Gonna Burn" (War Music), in 1998. After signing with Century Media in early 2000, the band released "Firedemon" later in the year.

Petri Kuusisto joined and the band would tour Europe supporting The Haunted and Nile and make the first of several prestigious festival appearances.

In 2001 Lars Linden joined just to the recordings of "Please... die!" (Linden making his debut with the band at the year's 2000 Decibel festival and Wacken Open Air). "The More You Suffer" (2003) and "Aren't You Dead Yet" (2004) would continue to see the band expand fan and worldwide sales base as well as touring in Europe, USA & Japan, playing a number of festivals (Sweden Rock Festival (SE), Metal  Meltdown (USA), Fury Fest (FR), Pressure Fest (DE), Kaltenbach Open Air (A), Summer Breeze (DE), Fuck the Commerce (DE) Metal Fest URI (CH) etc. and releasing the live DVD "Destroy Live" recorded live in Krakow, Poland (2004).

Vocalist Jens C. Mortensen would join the band's ranks in late 2004. In early 2005, the band began work on new material and the first pre-prod recordings with Jens were made late 2005. In 2006 demos of all songs were made and in Oct the real recordings started.

In January 2007, the band signed to Candlelight Records. "Testify For My Victims" was released June 2007. Director Owe Lingvall (Village Road Film) has made two videos for the songs "Burning Eden" and "Numb (The Dead)". Both videos recorded in Umeå, Sweden in January 2007, and additional photage for "Numb"during the fall.

In November 2007 Jens and Jari both decided to part ways with Carnal Forge for personal reasons. Shortly after the replacements were found in Peter Tuthill (Vocals), and Dino Medanhodzic (Guitar). Peter Tuthill released 2 albums with Construcdead prior to joining Carnal Forge. Dino Medanhodzic has released one album with Soulbreach and is also a well reputated album producer as well as video director.

On the 27 of September 2009 Carnal Forge released the first song with the new line up. The song is called "Blood War". Blood War is written, recorded & produced by Carnal Forge in their own studio in Sala and mixed by Dino Medanhodzic. 

In Jan 2010 Stefan Westerberg left the band and was replaced by Chris Barkensjö.

The video for Blood War was released in June 2010. This was Stefan Westerbergs last appearance with the band.

After the Rock Weekend Festival 2010, the band took a break and some of the members has been working on side projects. 

At the moment Carnal Forge is writing new material and working on pre-productions for the next album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carnal+Forge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.