The birth of Carnivorous was brought forth in late December of 2002. Co-founders Anthony Trapani (Vocals) and Dan Kenny (Guitar / Bass) got together with a drum machine and a guitar in Dan's garage and started writing. Shortly after, guitarist Ryan Evans was brought into the fold and Dan began to occupy bass. Over the next several months the 3 piece conjured up 5 songs. Then, Troy Fullerton of Severed Savior signed on to crush the drum machine, squaring off the line up. They ate their way from the garage into Severed's rehearsal studio and Carnivorous was under way. A few months past and Ryan resigned for personal reasons, reducing Carnivorous back to a 3 piece and moving Dan back to his true calling. Soon after, preparations were made to record their first demo entitled "Increments of Defecation". The Demo was recorded in their rehearsal studio with Dan pulling double duty on Guitar and Bass, Anthony on Vocals and Troy on drums. Independently engineered and recorded on a borrowed digital recorder, produced with the help of Dusty Boisjole and Independently released by Carnivorous, the production quality alone crushes all things "Demo" about this release. The demo was distributed throughout the US and Canada on last year's Bloodletting North America 4 Tour and got a huge response from the scene. Carnivorous again started writing more material shortly after that and started looking for more humans to fill out the band to a full 5 piece. Soon after, they brought Myk Torres ( ex-Disharmony ) to the studio and jammed out with him on bass. He joined a couple of jam sessions after that, and Carnivorous was now a 4 piece. Soon after, Ivan Munguia ( also ex-Disharmony ) finally completed the line-up on second guitar. Carnivorous plans to start booking shows, fests, and tours and also prepare more material for the full length as soon as possible. STAND GUARD! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carnivorous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.