The Latvian indie rock band Carnival Youth from Rīga, Latvia is one of the most successful new generation bands not only from Latvia but also from the Baltic region, as endorsed by The European Border Breakers award at Eurosonic 2016. 

The sound of Carnival Youth blends exciting melodies with the energy of rock - whether it is a sweet-sounding tune or a danceable hit. Their talent can be felt both on record and at the dynamic live performances. 

Since the formation of the band in 2012, Carnival Youth have released four records - Never Have Enough EP, No Clouds Allowed, Propeller and Vienā Vilcienā (album with songs in Latvian). These records have granted them a growing fan base all over Europe and critical acclaim. 

Carnival Youth have played at NME Club Night at KOKO in London, many festivals and showcases, such as Mondo.NYC (United States), The Great Escape (United Kingdom), Sziget (Hungary), Positivus (Latvia), Open'er Festival (Poland), Reeperbahn (Germany), Eurosonic (The Netherlands), and others.

They have toured Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and their local region several times. Radio personalities like Steve Lamacq (BBC 6 Music), John Kennedy (XFM), and Chris Hawkins (BBC 6 Music) have played tracks from No Clouds Allowed on their radio shows. Several songs of Carnival Youth have been charted in German and Latvian radio stations. Both full-length albums have had campaigns on the United States and Canada college radios via Planetary Group and Propeller charted on CMJ Chart 80.

Members:

Edgars Kaupers - guitars, vocals;
Roberts Vanags - keyboards, vocals;
Kristiāns Kosītis - bass;
Emīls Kaupers - drums, vocals.

Former members:

Aleksis Luriņš (PRAGAII, Nesen) - bass, guitars;
Matīss Kļaviņš - bass.

http://www.carnivalyouth.lv <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carnival+Youth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.