The story of Carnival Sun began in mid 2004, when Hall asked Jesper to let go of all their current band projects, make a fresh start, and form a band playing the music they wanted to play without compromises. Carnival Sun is all about hard, loud, balls-out heavy rock and roll. Hall and Jesper had been playing in various constellations together for years and years, but lately the situation had stagnated. A few jams later however, they were both convinced. The concept of the band slowly began to take shape, as they started to look for additional members (which would turn out to be time-consuming and easier said than done).

It just so happened that the voice of Carnival Sun was waiting sort of just around the corner. Hall met Niklas at Sweden Rock Festival ‘04, where Hall recognized him as “the other guy with long hair” from university. Niklas had a similar taste in music and shared a similar musical background, him too having played in several bands (more notably Blinded Colony). This was even before the first Carnival Sun-jams, and they actually discussed forming a band together. Foolishly enough, they never exchanged phone numbers, and it wasn’t until March 2005 they ran into each other the next time. Wise from experience, they quickly swapped numbers. Shortly afterwards, Niklas was introduced to Jesper when Niklas hosted an evening of drinking, which his neighbours probably haven’t forgotten about yet. An audition was set up, where the three-piece ripped through a few rock classics – and so, Niklas was the vocalist of Carnival Sun.

In early 2006, Carnival Sun decided to step into the studio to record some material, despite not having found a permanent bass player. The recording took place in May, and the bass was recorded by Hall. The result was entitled “Beggars & Boozehounds”, and featured the songs “Sentenced to Hell”, “Wicked Ways”, and “Soul for Sale”.

In april 2007 bass player Tobbe Skogh (also in The Itch) declared his interest in playing bass with Carnival Sun. Since he's a great guy, and an equally great bass player, the band was very positive. After just two rehearsals and one gig Tobbe had already taken the band to a whole new level.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carnival+Sun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.