Canadian pianist Carolyn Jones gave her orchestral debut at the age of 14, performing the Mendelssohn G minor Piano Concerto. Since that time, she has been active as a soloist, collaborative pianist, and chamber musician, performing in many prestigious venues across Canada, as well as in the U.S.A., Japan, Hong Kong, and Europe. She has also performed on several occasions at the Canadian Embassy in Vienna. In 1992, she was a prizewinner in the International Music Competition of Vienna.

Ms. Jones' highly communicative and imaginative style, assured delicacy of touch, and clarity of voicing is frequently hailed by critics worldwide. Her recording of Debussy Piano Music was released in September 2010 to critical acclaim. Her recording of Haydn Piano Music was released in September 2012 and further recordings of the music of Debussy and Ravel are planned for the fall of 2012. Highlights of the 2012-13 season include her first tour in the U.K., along with return performances in Europe and Hong Kong.

Born in Toronto, Ms. Jones was a scholarship student of Margaret Parsons Poole at the Royal Conservatory of Music and of Clifford Poole at the University of Toronto. She later studied piano and fortepiano in Vienna with Sally Sargent. Ms. Jones is a devoted teacher and adjudicator, and has given many pedagogy workshops and student masterclasses across Canada and the USA as well as in Hong Kong. She is also a highly skilled and successful music engraver, having worked with various publishers and contemporary composers for the past two decades. She has been instrumental in the development of the examination system in Canada, actively compiling and editing pedagogical material and recording numerous supporting CDs. Ms. Jones maintains a private studio in Unionville, north of Toronto and also teaches international students via the internet. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carolyn+Jones">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.