This moniker is used by multiple artists:

1) Caro(キャロ) is Japanese Singer Songwriter Female Vocalist.

Fire Emblem : Three Houses Main Theme Song "The Edge of Dawn" Japanese Version Artist.
and Also She Debut 18.12.06 "Fallin'" Single.
She worked at [LEBECCA boutique] role as a Model & Staff


2) Caro is Orac Records co-founder Randy Jones, a native of Madison, Wisconsin, later moving to Seattle, Washington.  

His first full-length, “The Return of Caro,” was released in 2005 following a string of critically-lauded 12"s which bring to mind old Chicago House as much as modern techno.  Caro shows blend these influences with live singing and a willingness to improvise, to work with pop and soul as well as dancefloor energies.  “I want to blow up the party, but also leave some words and hooks in your head.  To keep it flexible enough to grab the moment and stretch it out into unique sounds for a certain place and time and group of people.” 


3) Caro is a jazz singer based in Hamburg, Germany, now using the name Caro Josée.

After a dynamic start in 70s Hamburg, Caro turned her back on her career. Now she has returned. With an album made for eternity.

A Blues Singer with a fantastic voice and unconventional interpretation: José Caroline Tollenaar, Caro for short. Regarded as one of the greatest talents on the German pop scene. Discovered in the legendary “Onkel Pö” and branded the discovery of the year by the teeny magazine “Bravo”. A winner of the German Record Prize (now known as the ECHO) in 1978 for her first album. And in spite of that she was disillusioned, and spontaneously turned her back on the stage.

Her comeback was just as spontaneous and relaxed with the live band Carolisa. With her Australian friend Lisa Lagoda and a few of her companions from yesteryear the band were guests for Robert Cray and for the Scorpions.

After Lisa returned to her home in Australia, Caro continued to work on her comeback which climaxed with the album “Eternity” in 2005. And indeed, Eternity is something for eternity, timeless and undoubtedly of international class. This is pure Caro, accompanied by a filigree band. The musicians, legendary keyboarder Jean-Jacques Kravetz and his two sons Pascal and Julien, as well as Arndt Geise, Martin Scheffler, and Robbie Smith, show their best sides. Top class musicians, who interprete Caros songs tastefully and full of feeling.

The long and sorely missed singer has succeeded in releasing a stylistically wonderful mixture of Blues, Soul, R&B, and Jazz light. Passionate songs, an acoustic vacation from the blather of format radios. Once heard, its difficult to get your head out of the clouds.

Discography:

1977 CARO It´s nothing but higher Pinball/Teldec 6.23306AP LP
1980 CARO WEA Music 58208 LP
1982 CARO The boy is mine WEA Music 24.00082-1Y LP
1984 CARO The boy is mine Rockshir Records USA LP
1988 JOSY T. Das Traumauto Intercord 145.535 CD
1991 CARO Volcano” Virgin Records 614903 Maxi
2005 CARO Eternity” Adhip Records 1315-1514-4 CD 


4) Caro is a Turkish instrumental music group leaded by Caro Fibonacci.  http://www.myspace.com/carobeatz


5) Caro is a thrash band from Frederikshavn Denmark. The band was formed in 2007 under the name OMEN, but changed to Caro in 2011, and they’ve been going strong ever since. They play a mix of thrash, death and progressive metal, all the members are inspired by different bands, so the music got a wide range of genres. They recorded a EP at dead rat studio with Jacob Bredahl, the EP is called “Like a Sickness” and has now been out since April 2011. They’ve played a lot of concerts all around Denmark both as headliners and support acts. They are set to play Inferno festival in Norway 2011 along side bands like Immortal, Meshuggah and napalm death. The band is focusing on having an energetic live show with humour, and giving the audience a good experience. So all in all you get a band which loves playing live and give all they have, along side thrashy riffs, brutal breakdowns and catchy melodies.

6) Caro is an alternative indie rock trio from Leeds, UK.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Caro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.