Carol Williams was the first female artist signed to the new disco label Salsoul Records. She worked with producer Vince Montana, Jr. and the Salsoul Orchestra. Her most notable recording, "More'", was very popular at a time when disco was just breaking into the mainstream and is widely seen as an early disco classic. More was the first 12 inch commercial single that one could buy in stores all over the world It went to number 4 on the dance club play billboard charts in 1976. The success of

'ore'ed to the 'Leric Lady album, released in 1977 and featuring the hits Come Back and the club classic "Love is You". This was sampled in 2000 by Italian DJ Spiller in a track called Groovejet (If This Ain't Love) which reached number 1 in the UK & AUS music charts and sparked renewed demand for the original.carol's success at salsoul put her in demand as a major disco act traveling the world performing at all the major disco clubs like studio 54 and odyssey 2001 and etc. she did a lot of TV specials like the legendary performance at roseland with the salsoul orchestra which was on television for a hole year in 1977 promoting an album completion called SALSOUL DISCO BOOGIE.

Not long after the release of her album, Williams parted company with Salsoul in 1978 she signed with Canadian label Roy B. Quality Records she recorded a duet with singer producer Tony Valor love has come my wayit got a lot of club play witch led to the 1979 album reflections of Carol Williams with disco classics tell the world& dance the night awaywith these classics Carol toured the world performing with other stars like The Tramps, Thelma Houston, the village people, tom Jones & James brown just to name a few. In 1982 she had a R&B hit can't get away from your love on Vanguard label witch did well for her on the R&B dance charts your've reached the bottom line in 1983, what's the deal in 1987 ,queen of hearts in 1989 all kept her on the charts . her hits played an important part in the disco club scene. DJs typically kept Carol's records available as people would eventually request her songs. Carol Williams is still performing doing shows on disco flashback concerts and she travels with her live band you can find carol Williams on Salsoul various compilations Unidisc, Suss'd Record's Vanguard.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carol+Williams">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.