There are multiple artists with the name Carousel:
1)  Carousel - An electro-pop duo based in Brooklyn, NY.  

2) Carousel - Latvian duo, that will represent Latvia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2019 in Tel Aviv
3) Heavy rock, blues jam band from Pittsburgh formed in early 2010.
4) A Chicagoland post rock and alternative band.
5) New Zealand acoustic guitar, cello, violin, mandolin quartet.
6) Obscure shoegaze/noise pop band from Fort Worth, Texas that was active in the 90's.
7) For the early 90s indiepop/twee band from England use The Carousel
8) An incorrect artist tag for a Broadway musical by Rodgers & Hammerstein.

1) The two Berklee College of Music graduates created a unique sound that combines the drive of electro with the melodic sensibilities of pop. Since the release of Carousel's debut single, the band received immediate attention from blogs all across the web, including the Hype Machine where they chart on the "Most Popular Page" with every release.  In their short existence the band has had the opportunity to tour with Canadian singer, LIGHTS and open for great bands such as Neon Trees, RAC, Penguin Prison, Danger, Body Language, Morning Parade, Capital Cities, Viceroy, Zaphoon Jones, and Civil Twilight.

2) Heavy rock, blues jam band from Pittsburgh ....Conceived in early 2010 by guitarist/vocalist Dave Wheeler and drummer Jake Leger, the band's music incorporates many elements, most notably the harmonized guitar lines of Thin Lizzy, the bombast of Mountain, and the rhythmic propulsion of Diamond Head, Motorhead, and other bands whose names include the word "head". Christened Carousel by drummer Jake, the band went through numerous personnel changes before cementing its lineup with the addition of guitarist Chris "Twiz" Tritschler and bassist Jim Wilson. Carousel has been a mainstay of the Pittsburgh rock scene since its first show in May 2011, sharing the stage with local punk, metal, and rock bands as well as touring acts such as Mount Carmel, Purling Hiss, and Disappears. Soon after the successful self-release of Tears of Stone, their debut 12" EP, Carousel returned to the studio in February 2013 to record a full length. Word of the band spread during the sessions, and Carousel was invited to join the Tee Pee roster. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carousel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.