Carpathian Forest (previously known as "The Childmolesters", then "Enthrone") emerged with the demo tape "Bloodlust and Perversion" in 1992. In 1993 the band released a second demo: Journey Through the Cold Moors of Svarttjern. The following year, Forest signed to Avantgarde Music and recorded their first EP, Through Chasm, Caves and Titan Woods in 1995, followed by the debut album Black Shining Leather in 1998.

Carpathian Forest played their first concert in 1998 at the Quart Festival, Kristiansand Norway supporting Immortal and Satyricon. This saw the introduction of Vrangsinn. A short studio session followed, with Tchort and Kobro being made permanent members. The following EP was called He's Turning Blue, followed by the albums Strange Old Brew and Morbid Fascination of Death - these were both recorded at the same time and were produced by Terje Refsnes at Sound Suite studio in Sandnes. Nordavind left the band after this studio session due to personal issues with Tchort being promoted to guitarist. Vrangsinn was promoted to bass, and Blood Pervertor to keyboard duties for following sessions and tours.[1]

With this lineup, the band recorded their fourth album, Defending the Throne of Evil, released by Season of Mist. This album was the first to feature symphonic sounds, as witnessed with "It's Darker than You Think". The album was generally well-received.

The following year, Carpathian Forest made two releases - We're Going to Hollywood for This, a live DVD, the title of which was a play on their compilation album We're Going to Hell for This, and another compilation entitled Skjend Hans Lik, which featured many new tracks, as well as some remastered ones from Bloodlust and Perversion.

The band's most recent release was in 2006, with Fuck You All!!!!, an album which has similar structures to Black Shining Leather.

The band last played live at the Inferno Festival in 2009, and confirmed rumors that a new album was in the works.

Line Up
Nattefrost - Vocals
Vrangsinn - Bass 
A Kobro - Drums
BloodPervertor - Guitar
 Former/past member(s)
J. Nordavind - Guitars, Bass, Synth, Backing Vocals (1990-2000) (Grimm (Nor), 
Tchort - guitars
Lazare (Lars Nedland) - Drums (1998-1999) (Age of Silence, ex-Ásmegin, Borknagar, Solefald)
Damnatus - Bass (Grimm (Nor))
Lord Blackmangler - Drums

OFFICIAL BAND PAGES
MySpace: www.myspace.com/blackshiningleather
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/carpathianforest
ReverbNation: http://www.reverbnation.com/carpathianforest



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carpathian+Forest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.