Carrasco started out in March 2004 in the city of Recife, Pernambuco state, Brazil (northeast region). The first line-up consists of Opressor (guitars/vocal) and Terror Holocausto (drums). The initial purpose was to practice a Raw Thrash Metal influenced by avantgardist bands from Brazilan and German genre's school. The lyrical content was influenced by belligerant themes in a  latent way and sung on portuguese.

In the same year, on August month, Torturador was invited to take group's bass and vocals. 2 years passed since activities started and, after some gigs, on July 2006, a rehearsal titled "Massacre Bélico" (Belligerant Massacre) was recorded, which was distributed only between friends and few zines.

Earlier on April 2007, permanent rehearsal songs were re-recorded plus a new track, resulting in a new demo titled "Ultimato de Execução" (Execution Ultimatum) . On May, same year, Anthares (also Stormblood's guitar player) joined the band to occupy second guitar but a few time later he left band with Torturador. Thus, Carrasco came back to first line-up.

Opressor has finally taken guitars and vocals and Terror Holocausto on drums. Thus, musical/ lyrical measurement were increased.

This lyrical/musical subjects was an inevitable fruit of the will of playing songs connected to other genres of Thrash Metal and Proto Metal at general, such as Heavy Metal, Speed Metal and bands which incorporate Hardcore to Metal structures as Venom, Tank, Warfare and so on without losing Thrash Metal essence and the phylosophical link to underground and, thus, conservates it moreover.

Beyond lyrical and musical measurement, a lyrical language change occured. All songs are written on spanish currently.

February 2008, Torturador returned to the band, now assuming only bass player position. With Rehearsals playing and new compositions coming, on July the band entered in studio to register a new album attempting to a best result on mixing/recording this time. Aiming for a good sound quality.

On September, this stuff was finished bringing 7 tracks of a metal influenced by the deepest abyss forces which will result in the "Aurora del Sortilégio" (Dawn of Witchcraft) EP!

At the present, band is following its rehearsals and compositions. Soon, new concerts and studio recordings. Ultimato de Execução (2007) and Promo 2008 will keep on distribution and the last one has an EP previous being composed by 2 songs which will be released on it. 

Carrasco is searching for a label to create a partnership bathed in blood and sulphur and to promote Aurora del Sortilégio in Underground entrails!

Listen to all Carrasco albums here on Last.fm!

www.myspace.com/carrascothrash

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carrasco">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.