Carrie can refer to either:

1) Carrie is a story that begins in 2001, when Laura Becerra (singer/songwriter) decided to start a solo project after playing with indie bands Mery Poppins (as a drummer), Barón Ashler and Miyagi (as a bassist). At first, Carrie created simple songs using nothing but an acoustic guitar, mostly influenced by artists such as The Softies, Cat Power or Hope Sandoval. Later, experimenting with sequences, new instruments and digital noises, the project evolved into a mixture of indie pop, folk and electronic, something closer to what music specialists like to call Indietronica.

She is one of the founders of Abolipop, alongside Eric Gamboa (E.lebleu) and Israel Martínez (Nébula 3), an electronic music label based in Guadalajara. Her music appeared in the label’s first compilation “No estamos solos” with the song “Cat Power”, in 2003. Other songs have appeared in compilations of Mexican labels including: “Mars”, in “Minimas Texturas 007” (Discos Konfort, 2003). “Eco” in “Máximas Texturas” (Discos Konfort, 2004) – named "Compilation of the Year" by the readers of Quartz, an international arts and music forum based in Paris (www.quartz.org). “Sounds like Display” in “Marzo” (Soundsister, 2004). “I Sabotage” on the audio-narrative net.label “Música para Espías” directed and founded by Fran Ilich.

In 2005, she released her debut album, “Honey Blue Star” with the Tijuana-based label Static Discos and Dearstereofan, in Madrid Spain. The album was produced by label-mate Ruben Tamayo a.k.a. Fax and included collaborations by Fernando Corona a.k.a. Murcof. The album earned excellent reviews in important magazines and webzines.

She has also appeared in International Festivals, like the avant-garde Mutek in México; Plataforma in Puebla, Suoni Per Il Popolo Festival in Montreal, FMEL in Chicago, at FIS (Festival Internacional Sonorama) sharing stage with artists like Yo la Tengo and Tristeza, as well as the prestigious FIB (Festival Internacional de Benicassim) in Spain, appearing also in the Festival's music compilation with artists like The Cure, Xiu Xiu, Ladytron, Fischerspooner, Four Tet, Devendra Banhart and Kings of Convenience.

2) the short-lived pop rock group formed by Steve Ludwin (ex Some Have Fins & Levitation) and ex-EMF bassist Zac Foley in 1998 after EMF split in 1995, who released a single album Fear Of Sound.

3) An 80's female fronted band from Germany.

-----------------------

Carrie's "Honey Blue Star" is a split release between Static Discos and Dearstereofan. 
It is a collection of warm electronic folk songs, full of dreamy tones and true avant tweenes. Carrie's breathy voice takes us close to the worlds of Piana, Psapp and Tujiko Noriko, as she strums her guitar alongside a basic print of electronic sounds. Her honey voice floats into an unforgettable pool of soft melodies, cushioned beats and childlike wonder, as Carrie truly displays a unique sensibility that brings us close to a world full of love and humor. Carrie, Laura B. from Guadalajara Mexico, is one of the young leading artists in a new wave of sounds coming from Mexico. "Honey Blue Star" is Carrie’s debut album, produced with Ruben Tamayo (Fax) and mastered by Fernando Corona, aka MURCOF.

4) Female fronted Japanese hardcore from Japan. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carrie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.