There is more than one artist name Carthago:

(1) A progressive metal band from The Netherlands
(2) A Funk/Disco Band from Tunisia

(1)  Carthago, a progressive metalband from Katwijk, The Netherlands, was formed in July 1994. Guitarist Rob Ouwehand and Bassplayer Arris Ouwehand met up in Rock-Coverband "Order Out Of Chaos" in 1990. Rob's passion for progressive music lead the way for creating their own material in early 1993. Epic songs with high male vocals were their musical trademarks at this time. In 1994 Carthago was born. In the same year their first demo "The Change" was released. 
 
In 1997 after some line-up changes the band gets on solid ground. Their music at this stage was very much influenced by the coming of two female voices; Margreet van Duyvenbode (1996) and Stella de Ruiter (1997). The music style was becoming more spiritual and gothic combined with progressive metal. In this period Carthago was support-act for American bands like "Fates Warning", "Omen" and "Vicious Rumors". In 1998 they won a regional contest "de Grote Prijs van de Bollenstreek". In 1999 their 2nd demo "Experience" was recorded and they became 3rd in the finale of a contest called "de Zuidhollandse Popjacht" (the semifinal from a big music-prize in The Netherlands). Due to this contest many live shows were given. In 2003 Carthago played at the first version of the progressive metal festival "The Headway Festival" with acts like Pain Of Salvation, Freak Kitchen, Sun Caged and many more. In 2005-2006 they recorded their third product "The Battle".

(2) Carthago was formed in 1970s Tunisia out of the of two other  groups of the time, Dalton and the Marhaba Band.

Like the two older groups, Carthago gained a strong following playing clubs and hotels across the cities of Tunis and Sousse.

The band created their sound by incorporating disco elements into their Arabic versions of soul & rock 'n' roll tunes.

Carthago's single "Alech," in particular, had a lot of success on national radio, which led the band to play big shows like the International Festival of Carthage for thousands of people. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carthago">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.