Carved Memories doesn’t look to fit into any genre or style and doesn’t plan on conforming to any of the masses. The sound consists of heavy breakdowns, addicting hooks, rhythmic interludes and strong sounds adding some screams.
On August 2008, the group finds its way, maturing at the time of writing songs and creating new and experimental sounds. The debut concert happened on October 12th,2008 creating great expectations for the concerts to come.
The Original Members Emmanuel and Stefan learned music while they were playing in the band getting influences from different styles of music evolving into a new generation of Melodic Death Metal and needing new blood in the band. 
In 2010 Oscar arrived to the band for be the new lead guitar player, together the band released a single called "Insane World", with a new sound and better performance in stage.
Carlos Chanto joins the band on 2011, after the separation of Daniel Cordero (wacken bass player) and Tito Marin (bass player in Flaw Of Perfection), Chanto gave the band a stronge alliance and desire to improve.
On 2016 David Salazar became part of Carved Memories after Stefan for personal reason leave the band.
The band has been doing great things growing with the years, recording singles with important producers like the participation of Costa Rican producer Jesse Alvarado, himself has produced national and international artists as Akasha, Pnuema, Agressor, Syntagma, Korn, Ozzy and others.
Also the band played on a European Tour on 2014, playing in Countries where any other Costa Rican Band has played before, Amsterdam, Harleem and Bielsko Biala were some of the cities where the band played, making a really awesome impression for the metal scene on Europe.
On 2015 the band recorded their first EP in Bushido Records produced by Juan Pablo Calvo a recognized musician  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Carved+Memories">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.