There is more than one artist with this name:

1- Casablanca is a classic Rock band from Stockholm, Sweden. They debuted with the single "Downtown" in January 2010. 

The band consists of Anders Ljung (Space Age Baby Jane)  on vocals, Ryan Roxie (Roxie 77, Alice Cooper) and Erik Stenemo (Melody Club) on guitar, drummer Josephine Forsman (Sahara Hotnights) and former professional soccer player Mats Rubarth on bass.

Another single, "La Voix" was released in 2010 to go along with their performance of it during Sweden's Melodifestivalen 2010. The performance included additional guest vocals by singer Malena Ernman. The single had two versions of the song, both studio recordings, one including Malena and one just the band.

It was two years later that the band would finally have time to record and release a full album. "Apocalyptic Youth" was released in April 2012. The album included original single "Downtown", but not "La Voix". Videos were released for "Downtown" and "Love and Desperation".

The band began a tour for the album, but it was cut short when Ryan Roxie was called back to duty to perform with Alice Cooper again as his touring guitarist couldn't continue. The band did some occasional shows between Alice tour dates.

Debut album "Apocalyptic Youth" received critical acclaim throughout Swedish reviews and abroad, culminating in UK magazine Classic Rock nominating them as Best New Band of the Year.

Their Sophomore effort "Riding a Black Swan" continued in the same style, though with less experimentation, leading to a generally harder sound that retained its 70's vibe. Reviews of this effort were even better than the debut.

A 2013-2014 tour commenced for this release, though this time the band continued without Ryan Roxie for a period as he once again returned to playing with Alice Cooper. A temporary touring guitarist replaced him until he returned after Alice's tour ended.

www.casablancaband.com


2- Casablanca is a disco band, that was produced by Harry Baierl and Helmut Rulofs.
Casablanca recorded hits like The Girl of Lucifer, China Wall, Angel Of Night, and Hot Nights In Ibiza. 

3- Casablanca is a Rock, Soul and Blues four piece from Japan.  http://www.audioleaf.com/casablanca/

4- Portuguese Hard Rock band, formed in 1988. http://portugal80smetal.blogspot.pt/2011/05/casablanca.html

5 - Following in the footsteps of schoolmates Bombay Bicycle Club, and Theme Park, indie-pop five piece Casablanca are set to release their debut single ‘Yes’ this year.

Having made waves under their old moniker of Lo-Fi Culture Scene at the tender ages of 15 and 16, the quartet of Jacob Wheldon (vocals/guitar), Callum Akass (bass), Tom Herzberg (guitar) and Tom MacColl (drums) found themselves quickly boasting an enviable CV. Performing alongside the likes of Foals, Bloc Party and The Maccabees and releasing a few singles, the band took time away from their budding musical career to focus on wrapping up their education. Returning now afresh and with a new name, Casablanca are set to make waves once again with their enlivened take on guitar pop. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Casablanca">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.