The name Cascade belongs to several groups, including a Japanese dance band, a British trance duo better known as Transa,  a Finnish band, Australian Alternative/Progressive Rock Band (Free EP: http://cascade.bandcamp.com/album/anfractuosity) and an Indonesian band (http://www.myspace.com/spacycascade and on twitter @cascadecascade ).

The Japanese Cascade, began in 1993 and disbanded in the summer of 2002. Made up of TAMA (vocals), MAKKO (bass), MASASHI (guitar), and Hiroshi (drums), Cascade released around fourteen singles, nine albums and one 2-disc best of plus five VHS and three DVDs. Since disbandment TAMA has moved on to front FU JI KO, and has also released solo stuff under the name TAMAMIZU. MAKKO and MASASHI have formed ATTACK HAUS, and Hiroshi went on to join L.B.F and then velocity36.

The more famous Cascade known in trance history belongs to a group of brothers; Brendan and Dave Webster, better known as Transa. As Cascade, the two produced a few singles, most notably "Altitude" and "Transcend." "Transcend" has been remixed numerous times. 

The trance group Cascada was at one point called Cascade, and they did create a single called "Miracle", although they created this single under the name Cascada. 

In the 1970s a Finnish pop band used the name Cascade. The band was founded by Ami Aspelund, Aimo Jaara, Marjo-Riitta Kervinen and Kari Kuusamo. Tomma Knief and Roope Koistinen joined the band right after it was founded. They were later replaced by Pekka Leminen and Heikki Lyttinen. After less than ten years the band broke down because of the amount of other projects its members had.

There is also a band from the Chicago area that was formed in 2006.  It consisted of members formerly in The Side Effects of Summer.  This group is still together having been through various name changes.  They are currently under the name Skyrite and are writing new music.

In 2001 LTJ Bukem's Good Looking Records released the atmospheric drum & bass song "Mysteries" by Chicagoans Chris J and Casper (not the "Cha Cha Slide" guy) who also went under the alias Cascade.

In december 2000 Dutch rockband Cascade released their self-titled debut album. A cd with 13 rocktracks under dutch rock-label Suburban. The band consisted of Frank Klerks, Patrick van Bladel, Eric Nijssen and Rudi Brekelmans. The band was started in 1996 and quit in 2002. 

Cascade (featuring DEW) is a Christian music project on the Vision Label-  'Awake Awake' is the first release under thsi name June 2009 release date.

Cascade From Indonesia

Cikal bakal Cascade dimulai tahun 2005 dengan debut show pertamanya nya di Park Life TRL Bar Bandung tanggal 31 januari 2006. Adalah lima orang teman sepermainan; Dea Hidayasa (vokal dan gitar), Mohamad Taufik Ashari (gitar dan vokal), Rommy Febrian (kibor), Muhammad Mustika Rachim (drum), dan Muhammad Mustika Hafizh (bas), memutuskan untuk menggabungkan gairah musik yang ada di dalam diri mereka menjadi satu. Nama yang dipilih kemudian adalah Cascade.
 
“Air terjun mencerminkan lagu-lagu kita. Air terjun itu sejuk, penuh arus, dan begitu menginspirasi. Makanya kami memberi nama kelompok musik ini Cascade,” ujar mereka penuh keyakinan.
 
Musik Cascade adalah pop dengan sentuhan yang cukup unik untuk scene pop lokal saat ini. Sekilas, ada suara Teenage Fanclub di dalam lagu-lagu mereka. Tapi, di kawasan referensi, mereka mengadopsi banyak elemen musik ke dalam musik mereka secara keseluruhan. Ada Mew, Ride, Pet Shop Boys, sampai Rush.
 
“Aliran kami pop, sub genrenya progresif pop,” ujar mereka lagi.
 
Di tengah berjamurnya kembali band-band lokal dengan elemen musik pop sebagai benang merahnya, setidaknya Cascade berani untuk melintasi arus dan memainkan musik yang mereka sukai.
 
“Kita ingin berbagi melalui atmosfir sebuah lagu. Kita ingin berbagi dengan orang yang mendengarkan musik kita tentang perasaan, harapan, dan yang terpenting Cascade selalu bisa menjadi teman yang baik,” jelas band ini panjang lebar.

Cascade from Australia

Alternative/Progressive rock band hailing from Sydney, Australia, these new comers have already started growing a large fan base, through their intense live shows and the EP  'Anfractuosity' (2012) . Known for their searing vocals and brilliant musicianship these five blokes surely have a bright future in the music industry. Download their EP for free from: http://cascade.bandcamp.com/album/anfractuosity. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cascade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.