With international support growing from renowned DJs and producers including Tiesto, Hardwell and Nicky Romero, as well as two successful Spinnin’ Records singles under their belts ("I Like It Loud" & "Michael Jackson"), New York’s emerging electronic three-piece Cash Cash has signed with legendary dance music imprint, Big Beat Records, home to a diverse electronic roster which includes Skrillex, Icona Pop, Chuckie, Martin Solveig, Flux Pavilion, Rudimental and Walden.

The group, which consists of best friends and brothers, Jean Paul Makhlouf, Alex Makhlouf and Samuel Frisch first made their way into the hearts of core dance music enthusiasts with their vibrant remixes for the likes of Nicky Romero ("Symphonica"), Capital Cities ("Safe And Sound"), Vicetone (“Heartbeat” ft. Collin McLoughlin) and Krewella ("Alive"); as well as Bruno Mars (“Treasure”), Calvin Harris (“Let’s Go” ft. Ne-Yo) and Nervo & Hook N Sling (“Reason”), several which have reigned on the Hype Machine charts.

But the trio truly impresses with their originally produced material, including Krewella’s next single, "Live For the Night," coming just before their first official Big Beat release, "Take Me Home" ft. Bebe Rexha, dropping on July 16th along with a remix package to all digital retailers. The track recently premiered during the trio’s guest mix on Nicky Romero's ‘Protocol Radio’ Sirius/XM Radio show and officially debuted on BPM, hailed as the “best new track… heard in a long time” by host, Austin Kramer.

The groups’s fusion of captivating pop vocals and signature banging electro-house beats have already captivated dance music insiders and tastemakers like elektro magazine, Complex’s Do Androids Dance and Dancing Astronaut, who named Cash Cash one of their “five breakthrough artists for summer 2013.” Expect to hear more praise for this crowd-pleasing act from EDM and pop music fans and writers alike. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cash+Cash">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.