Casketgarden was formed back in 1998 in Hungary by three of todays members: Attila Cseh, Péter Musitz, Balázs Tóth. The plan was to make such a brutal but melodic music as our favourite bands (At The Gates, Carcass ) had done before they split up. The line-up became full in 1999 with a bassist and our present vocalist István Cseh. We recorded two demos with the first line-up: An Ever Rounding Circle in 1999 and the path-finder ...Of Grief in 2000. These two demos, but especially the second got great reviews in every zine where it was sent to. These two demos were released in Serbia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Romania by Rock Express Records, in a special one tape format. The Hungarian version was totally sold outThere were some problems in the line-up in 2001, then Gábor Őri, our present bassist got in the picture. His ancient metal fanatism and dirty rock n roll feeling made Casketgarden complete. With the new line-up we made a really rude continuation of our career. In the summer of 2002 The Non-Existent was released, the promo-CD we find the label Metal Age with. This stuff got great reviews all over the world, from South America to South Korea and our Hungarian position became stronger, too. We played with bands like Pungent Stench, Dew-Scented, Children Of Bodom, Nightwish, Anthrax as a support band and we gave succesful concerts in Serbia, Austria, Switzerland and Italy in 2003.

2003 - Casketgarden recorded at Studio Denever and released our first full length album "This Corroded Soul Of Mine" under the Slovakian label Metal Age Productions. The music is the same as in the beginning: very brutal death/thrash metal with gloomy, heartbreaking melodies. Forget the true heavy metal twin themes. These griefy melodies are under the influence of old English doom bands as well, to make a darker atmosphere. The influences of Swedish bands are present here in the fast rhythms, and twisted riffing strengthening the brutal side of music. Casketgarden with This Corroded Soul Of Mine became one of the pulling bands of Metal Age Productions. In the Hungarian Metal Hammer "TCSOM" reached the 4th position in the monthly soundcheck and CG was voted by the readers/fans among the 10 most talented newcomers of year 2003.
2005 - The band's next step "Open The Casket, Enter The Garden" (recorded in Studio Denevér, Hungary) shows much more original taste and professionalism in music and sound. It has already been the Soundcheck winner (!!!) in the November 2005 issue of HammerWorld Magazine (Hungarian Metal Hammer). The album and the band were nominated in the Hungarian Metal Awards competition in 4 categories (best album, best production, best artwork, best live act). Yet this year Casketgarden was invited to appear on the Hungarian thrash legend Moby Dick's Tribute album called "BálnaVadÁszok" In 2007 the band the Hungarian round of the International Live Award competition and reached the 7th position in the semi-final in Vienna's famous Planet Music club. A band played lived Europe-wide (Austria, Slovakia, Czech Rep., French, Serbia, Switzerland, Italy, Croatia, Germany) with the second album though never catched a real European tour.

2008 - After a 9 month long songwriting period the band entered Studio Denevér again to record their 3rd album called "Incompleteness In Absence" in the beginnig of 2008. This time the mixing and the mastering were done in Sweden at Studio Undeground by Pelle Saether, who you can also know as producer of almost all Carnal Forge (Swe) records, but he also worked with Fleshcrawl (Ger), Draconian (Swe), Terror 2000 (Swe), The Bereaved (Swe), Constructdead (Swe). We succeded to create the best sounding CG record with his help.
Songwrites focused on catchy song-structures as always and these time there are more varied elements and thrash metal parts as well concerning to the first pre-listeners. The whole conception of the album is about being away from the things you love in life, from the things that mean life and how the today society denies all honest feelings.The "Incompleteness In Absence" album was released by Metal Age Productions on June 6, 2008.
Casketgarden confirmed great festivals in Croatia, Serbia, Czech Republic, Austria, Hungary and Germany to introduce their 3rd album in the summer of 2008. The band already played with bands like Amorphis (Fin), Sodom (D), Unleashed(Swe), Vader (Pl), Finntroll (Fin), Belphegor (At) on some small sized festivals this year.
"Incompleteness In Absence" reached position No. 2 in the July/August issue of the Hungarian Metal Hammer.

http://www.casketgarden.hu <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Casketgarden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.