facebook | Official site
Formed In: November 2001
Origins: Huy, near Liège, in Belgium
Genre: Blackened Death Metal | Brutal Death Metal
Record Label: Unsigned

Contact Info | Bookings
Serge Massin

Members
Guitar : Stefan Cox
Guitar : Xavier Wegria
Drums : Rebhell
Bass : Romain De Costa
Vocals : Serge Massin

BIO
Catarrhal moves in the death metal style. Formed by Xavier, Serge and Reb in November 2001 in the small city of Huy, near Liège, in Belgium

In the beginning, the band was more a fun side-project, but the further he advanced, Catarrhal becomes a real ambitious project! Catarrhals members have some other musical experiences: Reb is the singer of death metal band Never Light Horizon, plays drums in the band Bursting and was drummer of Devoured and Xhzenat. Xavier and Serge have an experience with Hertogenwald (RIP), a black metal band


Step by step, Catarrhal becomes more and more professional and needs to recruit a bass player. They find it with Stephane, guitarist in the band Devoured. In march 2003, a second guitarist comes to give more technical aspects in the music of Catarrhal. Its Stefan, also guitarist in the black metal band Livor Mortis.

In September 2003, Stephane (bass) left the band and another bass player, Gilles, who plays also in Wizardkind integrate Catarrhal.

The 3 and 4 april 2004, Catarrhal record a first demo, titled Beyond Onirism in the studio The noise Factory by Gerald Jans.

In November 2004, Catarrhal plays at the final of Concours-Circuit, the biggest band contest of the south part of Belgium, in the Botanique in Brussels.

In november 2005, Catarrhal reach the third place of the Belgian Metal Underground Contest.

Catarrhal played more than 60 lives dates and shared the stage with bands like Enthroned, Enslaved, Aborted, Hate, Natron, In Quest, Kronos, Textures, Suhrim, Zuul FX, Hacride, Pitbulls In The Nursery, Debauchery, Mordagor, ... 

Catarrhal was also selected by different juries to be present on many compilation like "Face your Underground n°3" (1500 copies), "Concours-Circuit compilation" (1000 copies), "Liege Metal la compile" and "Noz Pagan fanzine compilation". So we can say that the music of Catarrhal has been spreaded everywhere in Belgium.

In 2006, Catarrhal faced the suicide of Gilles, our bass player. We wont forget you dude!

Romain, a friend, joined the band as new bass player.

In 2007, Catarrhal has recorded is first full lenght album, titled Putressence, out on Rotten To The Core label and recorded at Noise Factory Studios.

In september 2012, Catarrhal enter the Blackout Multimedia Studio to record the successor of Putressence.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Catarrhal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.