Catamenia is a melodic black metal band founded in 1995 by original members Riku Hopeakoski and Mika Tönning in Oulu, Finland.

Catamenia released their first demo album in their first active year, simply titled "Demo '95". Their second demo, titled "Winds", released in 1996, led to a four-album contract with Massacre Records in 1997. 
Their debut full-length album "Halls Of Frozen North" was recorded in 1997 with Gerhard Magin (Crematory, Mystic Circle) and was released in 1998. A year later they recorded their second album, "Morning Crimson" (1999) in Sweden, at Sunlight Studios with Thomas Skogsberg (Katatonia, Dismember). 
The band's third album "Eternal Winter's Prophecy" was recorded in their home country in 2000 at Tico-Tico Studios with Ahti Kortelainen (Kalmah, Eternal Tears Of Sorrow, Dawn Of Relic). 
Their last album for Massacre Records was entitled "Eskhata", released in 2002, recorded in Oulu, Finland at SoundMix Studios with producer Mika Pohjola (The Black League). After the release and promotion of "Eskhata", Catamenia renewed their contract with Massacre Records for three more albums, citing good working relations. Their fifth album, "Chaos Born", was recorded at Neo Studio in Oulu, Finland with Kari Vähäkuopus and Immu Ilmarinen (Burning Point, Embraze, Afterworld, Sentenced). "Chaos Born" combines melodics and aggressive metal with excellent balance. 
After praise from media and their fans for "Chaos Born", "Winternight Tragedies" was stated as their sixth studio release, again with Mastervox Studios and producers Kakke Vähäkuopus and Immu Ilmarinen. While working on "Winternight Tragedies", the band encountered problems with collaboration, distance and lack of practice. As a result line-up changes were made. Vocalist Mika Tönning and bassist Timo Lehtinen were replaced by new vocalist O.J. Mustonen and bassist Mikko Hepo-oja. 
In 2006, their seventh album, "Location: COLD" was released. Later that year, a DVD entitled, "Bringing The Cold To Poland", was released featuring live recordings at the Stodola Club in Warsaw, Poland.
Their latest album, "Cavalcade", was released 26 February 2010.

Discography:
- Halls of Frozen North  (1998)
- Morning Crimson  (1999)
- Eternal Winter's Prophecy  (2000)
- Eskhata  (2002)
- Chaos Born  (2003)
- Winternight Tragedies  (2005)
- Location:COLD  (2006)
- VIII: The Time Unchained  (2008)
- Cavalcade  (2010)

Members:
Riku Hopeakoski - Guitars and backing vocals
Mikko Hepo-oja - Bass and backing vocals
Juha-Matti Perttunen - Vocals
Toni Qvick - Drums
Sauli Jauhiainen - Guitars
Jussi Sauvola - Keyboards

www.catamenia.net
www.myspace.com/catameniaband
www.facebook.com/pages/Catamenia/7875267349
www.youtube.com/user/CatameniaOfficial

Important information note:
This profile is now registered. 
© Catamenia 2008 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Catamenia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.