Black metal band from Serbia, town Kikinda, formed in 2005. Lyrical themes: Blasphemy, Satanism.

Current line-up:
Assassin (Borislav Francuski) - Vocals (2005- ) (Raze)
Occvltvm Mallevs (aka Malleus) - Drums (2005- ) (Angelgoat, Blizzard)
Sabbathorn - Guitar (2007- ) (Angelgoat)

Links:
http://www.myspace.com/catastrophybandsrebia
http://www.catastrophy.cjb.net/
http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=50117


The band was formed at the beginning (January) of 2005. year in (the North of) Serbia, under influences of real METAL bands, with tendencies of creating dark, agressive and almost occult atmosphere. The band inspired by bands of different metal genres, on their rehersals, begins to play covers of Thrash and Black Metal bands, and so they had a desire to play agressive metal, in form of BlackThrash genre. The bend was formed by the drumer a.k.a. Mallevs (later Occvltvm Mallevs), and Assassin (vocal) ,and Aggressor (guitar).The very first demo „Hierarchy of Hades“, was recorded in December of 2005. by Mallevs and Assassin, although, there was 2 more rehersal-demo tapes, with early versions of their own songs and covers („Infernal Catastrophy“ and „Unabscence of Ragathory Crucifix“). Aggressor left the band, and Beast took his place. After few month’s Aggressor come back. In a middle of 2006. Aggressor and Beast leave the band. Sept. 2007 Carnager (from Angelgoat) and Sabbathorn join the band. At the end of 2007. Mallevs and Assassin record first version of second demo "Anticross" with 5 songs, among them was also Bombarder cover "Noci Uzasa". 2008. Aggressor come back and took Carnagers place. Unsatisfied with production at the end of 2008. Occvltvm Mallevs, Assassin and Sabbathorn rec. again second demo "Anticross", now with 3 songs. In Dec. 2008. band rec. another Bombarder cover, thi time "Glasnik Smrti" for a tribute to Bombarder compilation. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Catastrophy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.