Genre: Melodic Metal

Members:
Amanda Gosse - Vocals
Geoff Waye - Guitars
Keith Jackman - Bass
Patrick Tarrant - Drums

Hometown: St. John's, Newfoundland, Canada

Websites:
You can find Category VI on Facebook at http://facebook.com/CategoryVI and on their record label at http://www.killermetalrecords.de/en/category-vi . The band's music is available on iTunes, Amazon, etc.

Biography:
Hailing from the misty shores of Avalon, Category VI formed in early 2010. The band brings something new to the local Newfoundland metal scene as they are the only band from the city that play melodic metal, and the only active female-fronted melodic metal band in the city! Category VI has performed live in St. John’s actively since 2010 with other local hard rock and metal bands as well as with touring bands Including NAIL and ANVIL. 

The band self-released their first full album called FIREBORN (2014) which received plenty of praise and great reviews from both a local and international level! Category VI released their first full video for their single called "Reborn" then the second music video for "Silence Befalls the crowd" which was also produced by Perez/Hynes. 

After the excellent feedback from Fireborn, the gang got back into working on new material and began recording their second album titled, "War is Hell", which was released in 2017 under German label, Killer Metal Records! This album is inspired by the perils of war in respect to Beaumont Hamel which is a huge part of our Newfoundland history. It also tackles themes regarding ones "inner war" Such as PTSD, depression and anxiety, etc as war can happen on both a battlefield and in our own minds.

The band played a number of shows in later 2017 to support the album and were even nominated for "alternative" album of the year Music NL (even though we are a METAL band - there is no metal category in our provincial awards). The band have been working on new songs in early 2018 and will debut some of them live this year for sure.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Category+VI">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.