1) Cathexis is a Death Metal band from Austin, Texas. The band was formed in 2012 after founding members Ian Bishop (vocals), Chris Hillam (Guitar) and Sam Kang (Guitar) decided to manifest their common musical interests in an actual band. Combining catchy hooks, healthy doses of technicality and a priority on songwriting, Cathexis self produced their debut album and unleashed "Shades of Apocalypse" in early 2013. The album is streaming in full, as well as available for download via their bandcamp.

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/CathexisDM

Bandcamp: http://cathexis1.bandcamp.com/album/shades-of-apocalypse 

2)In psychoanalysis, cathexis is defined as the process of investment of mental or emotional energy in a person, object, or idea.[1] The Greek term cathexis (κάθεξις) was chosen by James Strachey to render the German term Besetzung in his translation of Sigmund Freud's complete works. For Freud, cathexis is defined as an investment of libido. Freud often described the functioning of psychosexual energies in mechanical terms, influenced perhaps by the dominance of the steam engine at the end of the 19th century.[citation needed]
Freud often represented frustration in libidinal desires as a blockage of energies that have, or would eventually build up and require release in alternative ways. This release could occur, for example, by way of regression and the "re-cathecting" of former positions, that is, fixation at the oral phase or anal phase and the enjoyment of former sexual objects ("object-cathexes"), including autoeroticism.
When the ego blocks such efforts to discharge one's cathexis by way of regression, that is, when the ego wishes to repress such desires, Freud uses the term "anti-cathexis" or counter-charge.[2] Like a steam engine, the libido's cathexis then builds up until it finds alternative outlets, which can lead to sublimation or to the formation of sometimes disabling symptoms.

Although the above description really has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the Band at all. I felt that the Music on the CD with the Psyche-Trancy type of electro-beats along with the vocal elements of each track on the album. Cathexis {The Band} truly does fit the mood of the above description that I fad felt compiled to post up on here. I could hear the obvious reason for their Band name. 

Here are the list of Tracks on the CD:

Cathexis - Exempli Gratia

1. Oh
2. Acid Reflex
3. A'point Motion
4. Shores of Topa
5. Stream Ov White Light
6. Erase Friday
7. Hymlock
8. Implant
9. Us
10. Manatee

This is an extremely hypnotic album to listen to. If you just want to kick back with the lights dimmed down low and chill out for the night, then this is the Band and Album for you. 

I own the CD so I would know.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catthexis
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cathexis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.