Catholicon was formed on April 9'th 1994, by Blasphyre and Troy Thomas, who met while protesting the evangelist Bob Larson at Comite Baptist Church in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. In mid 1994, the debut demo, entitled "Children of the Lost Generation ," was released and quickly spread throughout the underground. Soon a rushed second demo emerged entitled "Redemption". The new songs recorded were stronger material, showing the band begin to move into it's own unique style. This demo helped gain the band more exposure through the underground, and is now completely sold-out. In 1998, the first full-length album was released, entitled "Lost Chronicles of the War in Heaven" The record was produced and released by the band. The album received numerous positive reviews throughout the entire underground, as well as a few sharper criticisms of their "twisted musical visions". The album cover was painted by well-known Finnish artist, Juha Vuorma, who has also done work for Darkified, Fleshgrind, Whiplash, and Headfucker magazine, among others. In 1999, the band recorded what is to date their most widely accepted release, a promotional demo that quickly ran through a printing of 300 cassettes and a small batch of CD's. This demo featured a much stronger, heavier, and more aggressive performance by the band, and was very well received by the local scene. In 2000, the band was contacted by a small upstart British label, "Rage of Achilles", to re-release the "Lost Chronicles..... " album and too record a follow-up EP shortly afterwards. The band re-recorded their three favorite old songs for the European version and also added an unreleased instrumental piece from the original album sessions. About three months after the re-issued album came out on "The Black Hand / Rage of Achilles ," Catholicon was informed that the sub-label was closing. In 2002, Catholicon recorded a followup to the 1999 promo to showcase more songs from their long-in-development concept album, "the Death Throes of Christianity". The recording sessions for this album finally began in late 2003 and wrapped up in 2004. Due to label issues and other issues, the album did not see the light of day until released in mid 2006 by Negativity Records. In Christmas of 2005, the band traveled to Noisefarm Studio in Austin, TX, to record their third album, Treatise on the Abyss, which was released in early 2007 on Negativity Records. This album's release, their third album to date, has been the most widely accepted so far by the band. A limited 'wooden box' collector's edition of this CD was also pressed. Catholicon are currently taking time off to focus on writing their fourth studio album, tentatively entitled "Skeleton Key", for a hopeful 2008 release. This album is to be a concept album based on the history and underbelly of the Catholic church. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Catholicon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.