Cathalepsy, Melodic heavy metal band from Valparaiso (Chile) founded in 1998 by Luigi Ansaldi, Sergio Herrera and some others inspired in bands such as Iron Maiden, Helloween, playing covers and at the same time componing own songs. Passing throw the time the band had some changes on his musicians, leaving the band for diferent razons. That is the time when Andre Marcello, Miguel Angel, Bruno Lavigne (guitar) and Isaias Acuña (lyrics) join Ansaldi, but at short time Acuña leaves the band, joining Camilo Alvares. At the end of 2001 the band makes a demo play called "El Ultimo Dragon", (The Last Dragon); recorded in Atiko Studios which is a small studio,but good enough and makes the band proud of having their own record,after that, the band has several presentations in Valparaiso having a really good reception of the people. But Ansaldi,in search of making the band grows up,decide makes some changes in the armony and the sound of the band, even the language, now singing in english. Some changes includes that Lavigne (guitar) now plays electric keyboard piano showing all his aptitudes in that instrument and at the same time Robert D`Navarra joins the band as guitar player. After areally hard work and pacience the band has the oportunity of make a record,but still was missing an importan part,the vocals, is in that moment that joins the band Eric Galdyanz, professor of vocals techniques and well known on the regional scenaries, having studies in Europe and contact with important persons in the metal scene such as Helloween and living in Brazil where he has influences from diferents band such as Angra. So, in 2005,the first album of Cathalepsy called "Figth in the Sky" sees the ligth after an exaustive process and leavin 8 song behind, making the band proud, with this, the band is invited to play on the mega show "Rock in Santa Maria",realized in the university of the same name in Valparaiso, in wich played importants band from Chile,including Panzer and Alejandro Silva Power Cuarteto, this was the first time that the band plays after a huge public because the place was full,and at the same time the show was publicited in the radio,wich gave the band the posibility of been on the air. The band sufered another change on his inegrants, D`Navarra and Miguel Angel leaves the band because of personal problems and the band enter in a recess for a long while until Alexi Flores (Alquimia ex.guitar player) and Eduardo Villalon, well known in the metal scene and with this alianation, Cathalepsy sign a contract with Orion Records, having the oportunity that his album "Figth in the Sky" be around the World.


line up:
luigi Ansaldi- drums
eric Galdyanz- vocals
Andre Marcello- guitar
alexi Flores- guitar
eduardo Villalon- bass

some information:
cathalepsymanager@gmail.com
cathalepsy@gmail.com


managment
arcanhell@entelchile.net
arcanhellproducciones@gmail.com

forum & pix
http://www.fotolog.com/cathalepsy

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cathalepsy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.