Catie Virginia Turner (born February 14, 2000) is an American singer-songwriter from Bucks County, Pennsylvania, United States. She rose to prominence as a contestant on season 16 of American Idol, placing in the top seven. On September 24, 2019, Turner further gained notoriety after her song "Prom Queen" was used in the trailer for Shane Dawson's web series, "The Beautiful World" of Jeffree Star, which gained over 11 million views in just one week.

Turner had previously auditioned for several reality singing shows, beginning at 11 years old with America's Got Talent. She then auditioned for The Voice twice and auditioned unsuccessfully for the fifteenth season of American Idol. After trying again in 2017, she finally received a golden ticket to Hollywood. In an audition held in New York, she sang her original song "21st Century Machine." Her segment on American Idol was the first shown during the sixteenth season's premiere on March 11, 2018.

After getting through Hollywood Week, she made it to the Showcase Round where she sang "Bad Romance" by Lady Gaga. In the Top 24, she sang "Call Me" by Blondie and "Good to Be Alive (Hallelujah)" with Andy Grammer. After advancing to the Top 14, she sang "Take Me to Church" by Hozier and immediately advanced to the next round. In the Top 10, she sang "Once Upon a Dream" from the movie Sleeping Beauty.

She advanced to the Top 7, where she was one of two contestants to be eliminated from American Idol. After singing "Oops!... I Did It Again" by Britney Spears, Turner forgot some of the words to "Manic Monday" by The Bangles, a flub noticed by the judges. After her elimination, Turner commented that if she had been voted into the next episode, she would have given up her spot to another contestant. Clay Aiken, who finished second place on the second season of American Idol, called the show a "Vacation Bible School talent show" for the judges' response to the blunder.

During the finale of season 16, she reprised her original "21st Century Machine" and sang "Part of Me" as a duet with Katy Perry. Turner was among the performers starring in American Idol Live! 2018, a 48-city tour that ran from July 11 through September 16, 2018.

She has performed solo in Los Angeles at the El Rey Theatre and Hotel Cafe and performed in the spring of 2019 as an opening act for singer Justin Jesso in Los Angeles, New York and Toronto, followed by an opening spot for Meghan Trainor in Atlantic City.

On March 1, 2019, Turner released "Prom Queen". Raisa Bruner of Time described the song as displaying "aching, existential honesty", with Turner's voice suggesting "wisdom beyond her years". On June 7, 2019, she released "Savior," her lead single for her debut EP, The Sad Vegan, which released June 14. In the summer of 2019, she headlined The Sad Vegan Tour.

On September 24, 2019, her live and acoustic version of "Prom Queen" was used in its entirety as the trailer for Shane Dawson's 2019 YouTube series The Beautiful World of Jeffree Star. The video was #1 trending on YouTube, receiving more than 11 million views in one week. The series has also featured several songs from her EP, The Sad Vegan, including "Breathe," "Home," and "Party!"

On May 17, 2019, Turner, partnering with Postmodern Jukebox, made a vintage strings cover of Billie Eilish's song "idontwannabeyouanymore." The cover has over 1.4 million views on YouTube as of December 2021.

In 2019, Turner graduated from Neshaminy High School. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Catie+Turner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.