Catorsion was origianlly started by Don Anderson and original guitarist, Evan Gessner in late 1999. At this time they were not known yet as Catorsion. They started off with drummer Mike Tarasevitsch, and quickly realized that he was not quite up to the skill level that Gessner and Anderson were seeking. They removed Mike from the band and recruited Nick "the Minister" Socratous to ad-Minister the pounding double bass and lighting fast blast beats this band required. The trio caught the attention of long time friend, Chris Schofeild. Chris just happened to be a talented bass player and seemed like the ideal individual to fill the bassist position. With all of the instruments in place all this early version of Catorsion needed was a singer. For this they looked to old friend Pete Washuta. With his deep growling vocals he was a perfect fit.

In early 2000 Catorsion got their act together and agreed on their meaningless but charming name and set out playing shows all over NJ. While musically the band thrived differences between members resulted in Chris being removed from the band. This was considered a major set back until Chris Woods a.k.a. "Spicket" jumped right in and began to improve the sound and stage presence of Catorsion. Although Spicket did not stick with the band for very long his impact was felt. Spicket left the band in 2001 to pursue other endeavors. He was promptly replaced with Catorsion's current bass player Buzz. Although no one knows Buzz's real name everyone that hears Catorsion knows he is a talented bass player.

With a new dedicated backbone Catorsion faced yet another obstacle. In October of 2001 Catorsion lost one of the founding members when Evan also departed from the band. After months of searching and try-outs Catorsion finally found someone talented and dedicated enough to fill the shoes of the departed Evster. Mario "Sarge" Ramirez is the latest addition to the Catorsion line-up.

After many member changes Catorsion has the strongest line-up yet and is prepared to spill the blood of the innocent with their new breed of death metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Catorsion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.