Cattle & Cane is an English band from Middlesbrough comprised of singer-songwriter Joseph Hammill and three other Hammills: sister Helen (Vocals), brothers Fran (Guitar) and Vin (Bass), and "outsider" Tom Chapman (drums).

Summer 2016 saw Cattle & Cane working on their brand new album at ICP Studios in Brussels and Temple Studios in Malta with producer Luuk Cox at the helm. In between studio sessions, they found the time to perform at acclaimed tastemaker events such as Reeperbahn Festival, Live At Leeds and Evolution Emerging, as well as at some of the UK's finest boutique festivals including Cornbury, Deer Shed and Lindisfarne.

2016 also saw the band tour abroad for the first time, with shows in Germany, Malta and Belgium - where they performed at the legendary Cirque Royal in Brussels. Back in February, C&C toured the UK and saw 'Sold Out' signs appear all over the country as the band's ubiquity in their native Teesside continues to spread far and wide.

Cattle & Cane's debut album 'Home', released in September 2015, signaled a clear statement of intent and saw them gatecrash the Official Independent Album Chart; finishing the week sandwiched between Adele and Arctic Monkeys no less.

With extensive national support from the likes of BBC 6 Music, BBC Radio 2, BBC Radio 1, Amazing Radio and Channel 4's Sunday Brunch, Cattle & Cane have been heavily championed by the BBC Introducing team and performed at T In The Park and BBC Radio 2 'Live in Hyde Park' before they'd even released their debut single. A live session on BBC Radio 2 for Dermot O'Leary followed and one of the tracks they performed has since been released on Dermot's Saturday Sessions compilation, alongside such luminaries as Ben Howard, John Newman and The XX.

The band's music has also been featured on a variety of TV shows including 'Made In Chelsea', 'The Only Way Is Essex' and MTV's 'Catfish', as well as on popular Brazilian soap-opera 'Avenida Brasil', where they were included on the show's official soundtrack alongside the likes of Taylor Swift, Adele and Paul McCartney. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cattle+&+Cane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.