Caught in the Between is Finnish DIY metal band that offers versatile influences and catchy songs, mainly operating on mid tempo/semi-fast surroundings with some exceptions to the faster and slower approaches. The foundations of the band's music are usually based on heavy, thrash or death metal but several other influences too can be heard in different songs.

CAUGHT IN THE BETWEEN was formed in 2006 when Vekku and Vottonen got together and started to discuss the possibility of making a full-length production using material from past years, focusing mainly on joining different (metal) style mid tempo riffing with catchy melodies. The line up was gathered among friends and the work began. At this point the band was supposed to be just a one album project, however during the last vocal recordings it became clear that Caught in the Between would stay alive, play live and keep on writing music. Debut album "Equilibrium" was released 2008. Band started to work with new songs and plan a follower for Equilibrium at the same time playing several shows in Southern Finland, with bands such as Noumena, Metsatöll (Est), Nitad (Swe), Eternal Tears of Sorrow, Cause for Effect etc.

For the second album the band decided to push their music to more versatile direction, adding even more influences on the music. The album would show traces of heavy/death/thrash/doom/power metal, even offering some semiacoustic Anathema-moments with the closing track 13 Candles. In spring 2010 Masa decided to leave the band, just after the recordings had started. New drummer Tapsa step quickly in and made his debut in the band with the second album and the shows that followed. Second album "Horse Metal" was published late 2010. After the release once more some highlighted club gigs were played with bands such as Vulcano (Bra), Ghostrider (Ita), Stalwart (Rus), Bestial Torture etc. The band even played a special acoustic gig in 2010 and made their first "real" festival appereance in Hammer Open Air 2011, with bands such as Autopsy (USA), Primordial (Irl), Absu (USA) and Inquisition (Col).

After the Hammer Open Air gig band left the stages for a while to compose material for their third album, this time coming up with a bit more faster, accessible, heavier and even "hittier" material. Stylewise this time more narrowminded approach to the album unity was taken, mainly focusing on just heavy and death metal influenced backgrounds. The recordings are going on steadily and the third album called "The Asylum" is scheduled for 2013 - however to support the album release band decided to offer free downloadable Internet EP offering a peak to The Asylum with 2 album tracks and some bonus material.

The band is confident about the future and promises that great things will happen also during 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Caught+In+the+Between">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.