There are multiple artists with this name:

1)   A young music producer from Long Beach, California, making electronic music with heavy hip hop, r&b, soul and house influences. After releasing music off of his soundcloud in 2013, he gradually gained attention with original songs and remixes individually receiving hundreds of thousands of plays. 





2)   An MC from Brooklyn, New York out of the Dugout studio, known for reaching ridiculous levels of lyricism.


3)   A rock band from Tacoma, Washington:

Drawing upon an extremely wide range of musical influences, from modern metal bands such as Converge to classics like Billy Joel, it is almost unbelievable that Cavalier, this Tacoma, Washington based 6-piece band, ended up sounding more along the lines of Third Eye Blind and Ben Folds. "The bands we had all been in previously sounded exactly like what everyone else was putting out...we just had to look back at what made the bands we loved growing up so great and start from there," explains front-man Stephen Lloyd.

When we first started [Cavalier], we wanted to establish a style of music that was open to a lot of creativity and change as the band progresses and grows," states drummer and co-songwriter Sam Franklin.

This spring, Cavalier has done just that.

With their 2006-quasi-self-produced-debut-EP-release (in-hale) "Your Honest Answer", they achieve an impeccable new heartfelt and driven sound that still manages to retain that integrity and odd sense of familiarity that touches you and seems to stick. "We pretty much wrote and recorded this EP between the hours of 1-4 AM for a couple weeks straight last winter in a Shurgard Storage unit," recalls Lloyd. Mastering of the record was done by Troy Glessener (Underoath, Acceptance, Pedro The Lion) at Spectre Studios and then sent off to be pressed along with their artwork designed completely by the band itself.

With ages ranging from 18-22 the members have all been playing music at school or in bands since their early teens yet have only been playing shows together as Cavalier since summer of 2005. They all share the same goal of not only making this band a career, but more importantly to them making a sound that pushes the pop envelope along with the broad boundaries of indie rock."

From http://www.purevolume.com/cavalierwa


4)  Cavalier is a British rock band comprising Tom Harries (Vocals/Acoustic Guitar), his brother James (Keys), Guy Prall (Lead), Rick Brearley (Bass) and Mark Stormont (Drums). Tom and James come from a very classical musical background having recorded and performed around the world, whilst Guy, Rick and Mark come from a significantly jazz and blues background. This musical talent combines to incredible effect and whilst creatively drawing inspiration from the likes of Coldplay and Dave Matthews band, John Mayer and Ryan Adams, Cavalier continue to produce a unique and powerful sound that will appeal on a global level

Cavalier first came together at university where the chemistry between them was immediately obvious; they quickly began to write, practice and perform as much as they could and they soon realised they were starting something incredible. Cavalier’s first major event was as the headline act at a festival in aid of Cancer Research - a charity close to the band’s heart - in August 2008. They released their first EP ‘No Looking Back’ in December ’08, receiving rave comments such as; “can only be described as epic” BBC Introducing, and “what wonderful music, what fine lyrics” Stephen Fry.

Within a year of their first solidifying gig they had headlined at the infamous Troubadour club, and performed at some of London’s most prestigious venues - O2 Academy Islington, Scala, Proud Galleries and The Bedford to name a few. Cavalier released their second EP in September ’09 and have since gone on to grant worldwide licenses to some of the UK and USA’s premier media companies. The band have a number of key partners, including Distract TV, who are working on a number of exciting ventures with the band.

Cavalier songs have been played throughout the UK and USA online and on local and national radio stations. BBC introducing having spotted the band invited them for a live session which was broadcast in February 2009, and regularly feature new tracks from the band. They have been invited back for another session in January 2010.

From the outset, Cavalier set out to write passionate, inspirational and evocative songs, that will connect with as many people as possible around the world. At the very heart of Cavalier there are five musicians who strive for nothing more than to write and perform for many years to come and have songs which emotionally affects people in a truly unique way. Their sound has been described as “transatlantic”, which only serves to add to their global appeal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cavalier">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.