Warhammer 48K's Chicago-based side-project Cave debuted with the heavily percussive space-rock of the instrumental EP Hunt Like Devil (Permanent Records, 2008). The ten-minute Hunt Like Devil weds a looped guitar riff inspired by the hard-rock jams of the 1970s, a motorik rhythm a` la Neu and a xylophone melody that could be from a Frank Zappa operetta. The repetition finally yields a ripping space guitar solo. 

The instrumental EP Jamz (2006) contains the distorted and percussive freak-out of Annihilated Sludge Flow, the shoegazing and ambient meditation of Seans Inner Ear, the trotting guitar workout of 4.24.06, with a sudden acceleration a` la Steppenwolf, and the Brazilian dance novelty Drum Like Devil. 

Cave's Psychic Psummer (Important, 2009) offered vintage psychedelic rock for the digital age. The instrumentals are still largely based on hypnotic repetition. Gamm is a further improvement over their motorik-like progressions: a euphoric stream of martial beats and thunderous riffs. Requiem For John Sex is another variation on the same trance-inducing technique, for which all instruments provide the propulsive groove, except that the music suddenly picks up speed and volume and takes a detour into acid mayhem. The android jam of Encino Men juxtaposes videogame-like dissonances against a hard-rocking organ a` la Who. On one hand the band is still attracted by noise (as in the frenzied demented bacchanal Made In Malaysia), while on the other hand it shows it is capable of calmer and simpler forms (the melodic fantasia of High I Am, not too dissimilar from the disco novelties of the B52's, and the anthemic closer Machines & Muscles, that sounds like a digital remix of some lost garage hit of the 1960s). Instrumental psychedelic music not only reached new heights in this album but also found a way to exist without simply repeating the past. 

The EP Pure Moods (Drag City, 2010) contains three of their best performances. Hot Bricks weds their robotic beat to minimalist keyboards and new-wave singing, like Neu covering Terry Riley and fronted by Devo's singer. The seven-minute Teenager turns repetition into a postmodernist tool: the guitar hints at a wrenching boogie riff, the organ hints at a gritty soul rave-up, the vocals hint at a deranged garage anthem, but none of them delivers. They all exist as immanent archetypes of probable sounds. The 13-minute Brigitte's Trip (subtitled White Light White Jazz, a tribute to the Velvet Underground) was in effect one of the most dynamic pieces of their career, with the smoky blues-rock theme derailing towards emotional highs and lows.

http://www.myspace.com/realreelpro

There are other artists using the name:

2) Cave (Real Name Inge Hofstad Kjeilen) has been a producer of techno and tech-house since 2001, and had his first release with the Street Carnival EP in 2002, selling more then 50.000 copies all over the world, played by DJs such as Carl Cox, Adam Beyer, Sven Vath, Marco Carola, as well as more mainstream names like Tiesto and Armin van Buuren. Since then Cave has had over 45 releases on amongst others Intec, Pura Music, Terminal M, Magnetik Grooves, along with compilation tracks on large recordlabels like Universal, Sony and EMI. Cave first started DJing in 1998, and has since then played in over 40 countries all over the world, including Japan, Australia, Brazil, Venezuela, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Belgium ++. He has performed at festivals such as Dance Valley, Extrema, Awakenings, Sonar, as well as clubs and events including Fabrik Madrid, Florida 135 and many more. These days Cave is producing funky / tribal tech-house with the same energy and groove as always! 
Cave's music style has over the years developed into banging fast-paced tribal techno, using 3 decks + effects as well as specialized productions only to be used in his dj sets to make the techno experience greater.

3) Cave the folk-rock band was formed in 2004, and is comprised of Gregg Cave, Guy Fletcher, Kev Cox, Simon Care, Brendan O'Neill and Duncan Coverdale. They have toured the festival circuit and many venues across England, and recorded their debut album "Welcome Welcome" in 2007.

4)CAVE hardcore band http://www.myspace.com/cavehc <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.