CD9 is a five-member Mexican boy band formed by William Valdés (later replaced by Bryan Mouque), Jos Canela, Alan Navarro, Alonso Villalpando, and Freddy Leyva. Their training was given in 2013, in Mexico City. The members came up with the name because they claim that the term—which is an acronym for "Code 9"—is used to change the topic of conversation and that reflects who they are.
In August 2013, they independently published "The Party", and it quickly managed to draw the attention of the record company Sony Music México with whom they signed a recording contract. Then William Valdés, who was then a member, left the group and was replaced by Bryan Mouque.
In the first half of 2014, they released two EPs, which managed to position itself at the top of sales in their country of origin. Later, at the end of September of the same year, the label released their studio debut homonymous-named album and in a month it obtained a certification of gold by AMPROFON after overcoming 30,000 copies sold. To promote their album, they carried out The Party Tour concert tour in Latin America. In the first two months of 2015, they released their rebounded debut album : CD9: Love & Live Edition which includes live material from their tour. Of their first record productions seal they have released four singles: "The Party", "Ángel Cruel", "Me Equivoqué" and "Eres"; then they later appeared in the charts as Top Latin Songs of Latin Monitor as one of the most played songs.
In 2016, they performed the theme song for the film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows. The song was an updated version of the theme song for the original cartoon TV show. The same year, they collaborated with K-pop girl group Crayon Pop for a single titled "Get Dumb", releasing both an English version and a Spanish/Korean version.
".5" and "3/4" were released in 2017 and was their transistion to Urban music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/CD9">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.