Cebren-Khal deliver a hybrid of Doom/Death and melodic Black Metal, taken along by guitars in turn aggressive, heavy or melodic, supported by an effective rhythmic, and raised by diversified vocals and orchestral touches.

Thanks to the specific courses and the varied influences of each member, Cebren-Khal make up a musical crucible in which you can find the main facets of extreme metal. Thus come elaborate and diversified compositions, in regard to musical structures as well as melodies.

A very special attention is given to the lyrics, which explore the universal fears and eternal darkness of human soul through constant references to ancient or modern mythologies.

Cebren-Khal were born in Rennes, France, at the beginning of 2004, as Dann (drums), Mathieu (guitars) and Yves (vocals) met. The trio was soon joined by Laurent (guitars), then by Thomas (keyboards).

During summer 2005, Cebren-Khal recorded their first demo, entitled Charon's path Including 4 tracks, this demo was released at the beginning of November 2005. At the same time, Cebren-Khal greeted J.T on bass guitar.

The Charon's Path demo got a warm and even enthusiastic reception by underground press. Some gigs, including in May 2006 French final of the "Metal Battle - Wacken Open Air", proved also good audience reactions.

Thomas leaves the band in January 2007, and is soon replaced by Damien. During February, Cebren-Khal begin with the recording of their new E.P., entitled A Mass of Despair.

A Mass of Despair is recorded, mixed and co-produced by Xort (Anorexia Nervosa) at the DrudenHaus Studio. It includes 5 brand new tracks for a total running time of 37 minutes, and is a new step for the band.

In March, J.T. leaves the band and is replaced by Niky, who was already involved during the recording sessions.

By now, Cebren-Khal is looking for increasing their reputation, by the release and a wide distribution of their new work. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cebren-Khal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.