1) Celebration is a Beach Boys side project originally convened to record songs for the soundtrack of the 1978 film "Almost Summer". The title track (written by Brian Wilson, Al Jardine and Mike Love) became a mildly successful single, and Celebration went on to record three albums. The band consisted of Mike Love, Dave Robinson, Ron Altbach, Charles Lloyd, and Paul Fauerso.

2) Celebration is a psychedelic rock band based out of Baltimore Md.

Celebration is comprised of singer Katrina Ford, multi-instrumentalist Sean Antanaitis and drummer David Bergander... and additional rotating memebers: Walker Teret plays bass, sometimes guitar, percussion and backing vocals, Tony Drummond, plays keys, percussion and backing vocals, Tommy Rouse plays guitar and percussion. 
 In the beginning the band as a three piece's sound was centered around the unique output provided by all the instruments played by Antanaitis in the studio as well as live. He plays all of the music in the band including organ, Moog bass pedals, guitorgan and electric keys, leaving Ford to drape the sound with enticing vocals and Bergander with intense drumming. Their first two records were produced with David Sitek of TV on the Radio and also includes the other members of the band contributing backing vocals on various tracks throughout. In addition to producing, Sitek also contributed guitar parts and synths. Other noteworthy members on the albums include Martin Perna and Stewart Bogle who contributed flute and sax into the mix. 
  Their newest record, self produced "Electric Tarot: Hello Paradise"
( Friends Records) is  the result of home/ hometown recording with additional members. 
The tarot theme woven into the meanings and content of the music itself. 

Self described ritual music: live shows consist of piercing the veil of reality..audience/performer melding into one frenzy...flavors:  full moon rites, fire jumping, crystal geode worlds, pack animals, futuristic tribal living, Dionysian mysteries "the Dionysian, according to contemporary Greek and Egyptian observers - was one of spirit possession and an 'atavistic' liberation from the constraints of civilization and its rules. It was a celebration of all that was outside civilized society and a return to the source of being.", futuristic trance induction..."The trance induction that was central to the cult involved the 'invocation of spirit' by means of the bull roarer, and ecstatic communal dancing to drum and pipe.." FREEDOM, green energy, mountain magic, vulture magic, panther people, Malian drumming, cave dwelling, evergreens, The harmonic convergence 2012, time travel, power animals, tropical fantasies, underground lakes, dithyrambic moments, group howls, "Hiawatha's childhood", copal resin, Chief Seattle, "The magic in your mind", creative visualization, mandala magic, japa meditation, bird calls, "FREETOWN" (AKU!!!!!!), Zimbabwe mbira, Jajuka, Shamanic journey, "mountain" cooking, Flamenco music and dance, Ethiopiques!!!, fruit sculpture, the art of Andrew Goldsworthy, Holy Mountain and EL TOPO, silver Thunderbirds, glass fawns, psychic Warrior monks, mirrored worlds, Korean food, Modern gypsies, Cobalt hieroglyphics, space travelers, astrology, reiki, levitational break dance, black light art, bright feathers, Wig Wam dreams, Stuffed animals, sticks and Self hypnosis........

3) Celebration is a polish death metal band. Location: Bialystok. Year of creation: 1990. Status: Split-up.

Releases:
Beyond the Grave - Demo 1990
Dead Bodies Massacre - Demo 1991
Intro - Demo 1998 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Celebration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.