Celestial Machine - the very name evokes contrasting images. Formed in 2009 in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, the original line-up of Celestial Machine had a fairly clear vision: to move away from their death metal routes and establish a more melodic, but equally heavy sound. This original line-up recorded and released the band's first album, 'Stagmata' in 2011, showcasing a sludgy, guitar driven sound.

Today the band is a six piece, now based in both Saskatoon and Regina, with old members migrating to these new locales and new members being found there as well where needed. The distance between members has not impeded Celestial's ability to move forward, however. After a Western Canadian tour in August 2011 in support of Stagmata, the band has hunkered down to work on new songs, and a decided evolution in sound has taken place. 

Using more clean vocals than in the past, the addition of vibraphone and analog synths to the mix has allowed the band to develop a more melodic sound, such as subtle melody of 'Desolation'. Likewise while the band's signature sludgy sound is preserved in songs such as 'Nipiwin', (which means 'death' in Cree), it seems to have more depth and focus than songs from Stagmata. 

These new songs are part of the band's next album, a concept album about the end of the world, also entitled 'Desolation'. While the album does touch on the obvious theme of the physical destruction of the planet and mankind, other themes are also explored in depth on the record, such as the haunting loneliness of those who survive, the reasons for the cataclysm, and the struggle to carry on in the wasteland that remains. These themes tie in directly with the sound of the songs, with chaotic, destructive riffs standing in stark contrast to the echoing melodies that weave in and out of the album.

As with Stagmata, the band elected to record and produce Desolation on their own. For news and the entire new album Desolation, visit www.celestialmachine.com, www.celestialmachine.bandcamp.com . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Celestial+Machine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.