Celephais was formed in cold winter nights, year 2006 in Zagreb by Agressor (guitars) and Eligos (drums).Later in 2007. Christhunter (vocals/guitars) and M. (bass) joined the band but due to some circumstances after just few rehearsals M. was no longer in the band. Celephais continued without the bass player for a long time constantly trying to find one.The band put on big effort trying to create unique but old black metal sound from it's roots.In autumn 2008, Hister joined as a bass player who turned out to be appropriate member of Celephais and still today is!

Members:
Arioch - guitar and vocals
X - guitar
Hister - bass guitar
Josip - drums

Celephais style refers to more old black metal sound, even though production on their latest release is very clean, but if you have resources, there is no point in lowering the quality of production purposely and not hearing anything right!Celephais music influence is based on old school metal and black metal from 80's and 90's with common lyrical themes.Listen to songs and judge for yourself!

After more and more rehearsing in their garage the next step for the band was to record a demo. First release was rehearsal demo recorded in december of 2008. in Zagreb. It was mastered by band but wasn't released at the time. The second was recorded in Usud's garage studio during the february, 2009. It was bands first real studio recording expirience. Demo was titled after one of the songs Nest Of All Plagues.

After spending more time in garage practicing and making new stuff Celephais was called to play as an opening act for one of the greatest Croatian black metal acts The Frost in Metal Bar Runa in Zagreb which was bands first live expirience. Kletvenik, vocalist of Nekrist and The Frost, also helped band to release their first demo rehearsal called Obsure Antecedent as a edition limited to 100 copies. One of the songs can also be heard on SFH records compilation Dawn Of The Antichrist. German label also accepted to release Nest Of All Plagues demo on tape limited to 111 copies!

Also Celephais is preparing for the recording of the first EP (6.2.2010.) which will be out somewhere at the first half of the year 2010.

Later on, in summer 2009, thanks to Kletvenik, who helped band in many ways, Celephais got a chance to play as one of the openers in Rijeka for german death metal band Disinfect.After, Celephais along with Frozen Forest, was invited to play on gig with german black metal cult NARGAROTH in Zagreb 21.11.2009. and there Celephais got many positive critics and has recruited a most of the black metal fans in Croatia!

Celephais will NEVER take part in any kind of modern ideas and trends in music and lifestyle!We are simply not interested in modern shit in metal music, keep it old and stay faithfull!

We hail to our croatian black metal brothers Nekrist, The Frost, Frozen Forest, Srudendvor, Melkor and other brothers we wait to join the league !!!

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/celephaiszg#ixzz139SxtH7R




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Celephais">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.