Cell is the name of at least seven artists:

1) Alex Scheffer - Popular tags:  ambient, chillout, downtempo, electronic, psychill.  1984 saw Alex entering the world of machines. Aged 10 he received his first machine from his mother and father, respectively pianist and drummer, a Juno 106 Roland. At that time, student at the Conservatoire, he started looking at LFOs and filters. His favourite instruments remain keyboards and especially the piano, an instrument which he will get back to at 13 when entering the Jazz section at the Conservatoire of Chambéry (73). EXTENDED BIO CONTINUED BELOW, AFTER THOSE OF  OTHER ARTISTS...

2) Cell - Brian Fabiano - Cell started in 2006 as a challenge to recreate and understand Industrial music. Along the way vocals were written, followed by instrumentals and eventually entire songs. In mid 2009 we were contacted by Matt Russel of Gain Structure studios and produced our first EP "Stop This" which is available on iamcell.com through various online sources. We are currentlly in the studio recording our first full length album, and intend on documenting the process online during the process.

3) Cell was a rock quartet  formed in the early 1990's in New York City which featured Dave Motamed (formerly of Das Damen and later of 2 Dollar Guitar) on bass, vocalist/lead guitarist Jerry Dirienzo (later of Ugly Beauty), guitarist/vocalist Ian James (formerly of Flower and later of French), and drummer Keith Nealy.  EXTENDED BIO CONTINUED BELOW, AFTER THOSE OF  OTHER ARTISTS...

4) The Japanese band Cell is a 2 man group with Hiro on vocals and Taka on guitar. They’re heavily influenced by groups such as Zi-kill, 黒夢 and ジュラシック. Their music is available at Muzie, http://www.muzie.co.jp/cgi-bin/artist.cgi?id=a011578 . 

5) Alternative Metal / Rapcore band from South Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
http://www.myspace.com/cellnz

6) Cell is a black metal band formed in Winnipeg, Manitoba in 2014. 

7) Cell is an hardcore punk band from Montreal, Quebec and put out their first recording in 2017.
 
1) Alex Scheffer, continued:
His growing interest for machines and electronic music enticed him to listen to artists such as Kraftwerk, Tangerine Dream, Pink Floyd, John Cage, Peter Gabriel… 
Convinced that a fusion of styles is fundamental, Alex decided at 16 to look into Pop-Electro fusion. He took part in several bands as keyboard player and arranger, his main function being to mingle and mix electronic sounds into Pop-Rock atmospheres. 

After his Acoustic Engineer studies, Alex definitely made a turn towards electronic music. While collaborating with different directors he got to carry out all types of orders. Original soundtracks for advertising, short films, catwalk and even contemporary dance for which he wrote more than an hour of music.   
Formerly reviewer for Claviers Magazine, for which he wrote the « Hardware » trials and the « Vintage » column, he currently works as a teacher in a Sound School, training future engineers to different techniques such as sound synthesis, sound design and use of machines.
 
The several remix queries and collaborations with DJs turned Alex Scheffer into a many-faceted composer, able to create as much for dance-floors as for intimate or mental atmospheres…
Convinced that an electronic music composer must touch all styles to be complete, he passionately gives himself over to researching new sounds and atmospheres… 

3) Cell, early 1990's New York City rock quartet , continued:
The band formed in 1991 and was quickly signed to Thurston Moore's label Ecstatic Peace who released their first single. A few months later they signed with Germany's City Slang label to record their first album, Slo-Blo, which led to the band's signing with DGC records in the US.

Cell toured the world several times with Sonic Youth, Pavement, Sugar and many others, including a stint on the Lollapalooza second stage in 1993 with Royal Trux. They also had two music videos aired on MTV's 120 Minutes several times.

The band broke up after touring for their second album, Living Room, in 1995.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.