|| Homepage || Facebook || Youtube||  ReverbNation || MySpace || Twitter || 

Folk metal music band from Spain that mixes traditional music, traditional inspired music and its own way of doing metal music. The lyrics are normally inspired in a mix of tales and legends from several european peoples (celtic peoples, castilians, germanic peoples...) with a special flavour of fun and jokes about parties and getting drunk.

By the end of 2010, a simple thought started to shape as a project in Julián's and Gustavo's minds. Soon Julián presented some compositions, with international folk bands as references, and started to play them together. They both decided to advance in that project, so they contacted some friends and “friends of friends” to complete the formation. Vity, Lucky and David didn't doubt for a moment to join the band, in January of 2011 the band consolidated itself with a first formation of drums, bass, two guitars, bagpipe and flutes. Thanks to the friendship between the members and the different styles they all had played before, the band evolved very fast in a little time.

In May of 2011, Lucky left the band due to lack of time and Patricia joined as violinist. At the end of May the band has already enough compositions to work on its first album, that was recorded and mixed during summer at DZG studios (Dezege Producciones) and mastered at Finnvox by Mika Jussila in September 2011. The artwork was carried by Jan Yrlund at Dargrove design and was finished by November 2011. The album, called “Tirikantam”, was released December 23rd 2011, and presented in the “Tirikantam Winter Tour”, in Ciudad Real (Dec 23rd), Cuenca (Dec 30th) and Madrid (Jan 7th).

Since little before releasing “Tirikantam” and during winter and spring, the band members dedicated their time to compose new songs and prepare performances for the summer, playing in festivals both as secondary band as main band, and performing other independent acts in different spots of the Spanish geography, through the provinces of Ciudad Real, Cuenca, Toledo, Zaragoza, A Coruña and Pontevedra. Specially emphasizing “Gallæcia Folk Metal Fest” and “Keltoi Fest 2012”.

By the end of August 2012, David formally presents to the band his own research and personal rebuilding of the celtiberian language, the language called “keltokurmis” or “celtibeerian”, a language inferred from known fragments of Celtiberian, Proto-celtic and other languages within the celtic branch of Indoeuropean languages, in order to recreate a cultural and linguistical background for some lyrics, although there was already some resarch done for “Tirikantam”. After the summer the band continues with more timely-spaciated performances to dedicate the time almost entirely to the composition of a new album, which will try to release along 2013. Little before ending 2012, the band inscribed itself in the Rolling Rock Bar bands contest performing a first show as contestant, and then after being selected, a second and final show as contest finalist, being the winner of the First Award.

In January 2013, the band participates in the Viking Fest España first edition, called Gatuperio Viking Fest in Madrid, where a little advance of the second album is made with two songs called “Eimos to katum” (We're marching to war) and “Kladimoi” (Swords).The tour continues reaching different parts of the Spanish geography as Granada, Cordoba, La Gineta (Albacete), Madrid again, and of course, Ciudad Real, among others, both in concerts and at festivals such as GinetaRock, Estayike Rock. Celtibeerian shares the stage with important bands both nationally and internationally (Zarpa, Hora Zulu, Ankhara, José Rubio’s Nova Era, Firewind (GRE), Sinbreed (GER), Månegarm (SWE), Fängörn (RUS), …). 

At this point, David García decides to leave the band due to personal reasons. He is replaced by David Sánchez (Mörrighan) who plays viola, bagpipe, whistles, bouzouki, harp and vocals. After this line-up change, the band is being strengthened again as a 5-membered band. In September, the band came back to Dezege Studios to start the recording of the second album called “Keltorevolution”, which is going to release in March 2014 ( Out now!).

NOTE: The following information is taken from official sources and is assumed to be written during the writing of Keltorevolution. Information may have changed, new information may have appeared, but these are the official statements.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Celtibeerian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.