The debut album 'The Fall, The End' can be downloaded for free at: http://www.archive.org/details/TFR148-CemeteriuM-TheFallTheEnd . 
Don't forget to buy your copy if you like it, contact the band for more info, or check it out on http://concretorecs.com/store/item.php?id=4423 .. .. 

CemeteriuM started as a solo project of Belegurth in the summer of 2004, then with the addition of Morrigu and Malbec became something more. Morrigu would take the challenge of learning to play the keyboard as would Malbec to play bass. The absence of musicians has constantly been a problem which CemeteriuM faced right from the start. In order to play live, Belegurth would play guitar and do vocals with programmed drums on playback. After a few small shows the band caught a break when Black Cat decided to join the ranks playing guitar. Belegurth moved to drums and CemeteriuM was complete for the first time. Black Cat left the band in 2006 and CemeteriuM was left with two members, but was determined to continue progressing. In February 2006 the first demo was released featuring five original tracks recorded and produced by Belegurth. In August 2006 new members Scarcrow on bass and Azazel on Guitar were added making a full lineup. Only a month after joining, Scarcrow decided to leave and was replaced by bass player Evan. Evan left the band in 2007 without replacement until new bass player Azrael was added in early 2008. In late 2008 a second guitarist was added; Tyrker. 2009 was spent touring in several states in Mexico. In September 2009 a split album with Inner Mortum (also from Puerto Vallarta) was released, containing three new tracks from CemeteriuM. Azrael and Azazel left the band in 2010. The full length album "The Fall, The End" has been released online through Torn Flesh Records and can be dowloaded for free, the physical release is available contacting the band or through www.concretorecs.com . In 2011 Azazel has re-joined the band and Tyrker has left.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cemeterium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.