The beginnings of Cemetery of Scream reach back to 1992, after a few local bands broke up and Marcin Piwowarczyk /guitars/ together with Grzegorz Książek /drums/ started to work on a new stuff- totally different from trash-death metal they used to play with their former groups. In April 1993 they recorded their first demo tape called "Sameone". During the session they were backed up by Jacek Królik /bass/ and Marcin Kotas /vocals/, who eventually became members of the band. "Sameone" contains 32 minutes of nostalgic music labeled as mystical symphonic doom death, with vast keyboard parts. It was very well received by the Polish underground press and fans.
In autumn 1993 two new members joined Cemetery of Scream - Artur Oleszkiewicz /guitar/ and Kasia Rachwalik /keyboards/. By the end of July 1994 having taken part in "S'trash'ydlo '94" /the biggest Polish underground festival/, the band again entered the Gamma Studio to register the music for their debut LP/CD/MC "Melancholy".
As it was with "Sameone", also this time the band invited some musician-friends to the studio to work together on the visions of "Melancholy". Piotr Labuzek /the co-producer and sound engineer/ played the keyboards; his work effects are clearly distinct in most of the instrumental compositions. The female voices by Magda Jaglarz and Paulina Piwowarczyk and some guitars solos by Paweł Góralczyk add to overall effect.
His poetry tells about sadness, happiness, beauty, fear and pain - it is like a voyage into the depths of human feelings. Together with the music and layout they make one unite whole. On its account the band already got a video-clip shot for the track called "Anxiety" which was released on the compilation video-movie from Nuclear Blast Records, entitled "Beauty in Darkness". What is worth noticing - it is the fact that C.O.S. was included in this movie among acts such as Lacrimosa, Tiamat, Love Like Blood or Therion. At the same time the piece called "Melancholy" was promoted on the compilation album by the Nuclear Blast, entitled "Souncheck - Series vol.5". Cemetery of Scream has also the pleasure and privilege to be given fine reviews both in its own country and abroad.
The album "Melancholy" was acclaimed the record of the month by the "Aardschok" magazine in Holland, and it took the best score in the German issue of the "Metal Hammer".
At the time the guitarist Artur Oleszkiewicz was soon replaced by Paweł Góralczyk - the man responsible for powerful activities of one of the most impressive bands on the Polish trash-metal scene - the crew playing under the name of Hellias. So, the band lost nothing of its freshness and power which was absolute confirmed by the reviews in metal and rock magazines. The German "Rock Hard" wrote about them-"...Cemetery of Scream from Kraków, Poland is highest quality...!!!". According to the good old tradition, which the band had adopted long ago, this title obviously portrays both the musical and lyrical fields, included in the record.
Needless to say, the layout of the album, precisely designed in very inch, perfectly underlines its mood. The official manufactured of this LP on the international arena was the "Serenades" Records - a German label.
As a preview of the 2001 album "Prelude to a Sentimental Journey" the act recorded an MCD called "Fin de Siecle" .The mood of this EP is inspired by the latest events on the political scene of the present day were where the crises of the century s and are overcome by wars - the wars being financed by the two empires (the war in former Yugoslavia, the war in Tshechenia, and many other conflicts all over the world). The return to decadence seems to be the only protest to this. In November 2004 the band played at Dark Stars Festival Tour 2004. After the tour they started to work on their new album, whose final concept crystallized after the change of the vocalist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cemetery+of+Scream">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.