Early tales from Ancient Greek mythology tell of the three brothers named the "Hecatonchires" or "Centimani" in Latin. "Centimani" translates into English as "hundred-handed ones" for these brothers, born of Uranus and Gaia, each had fifty heads and a hundred arms making them a vicious triumvirate of destruction, even more terrifying than the mighty Cyclopes. The Centimani were brothers of Cronos, the titan, as well as the Cyclopes, and assisted Cronos in the castration and usurpation of Uranus. After Cronos took power, he locked the Centimani away in Tartarus for all eternity until the day Zeus took his rightful place on the throne of Olympus. The Centimani was enlisted by Zeus to help him destroy the Titans, and as the Titans launched their offensive against Olympus, they hurled huge boulders by the hundreds in such a fury that they believed entire mountains were being raised against them. Under such a furious onslaught, the Titans retreated and were subsequently imprisoned by Zeus for all eternity in the pits of Hades, where the Centimani now vigilantly stand guard at the gates of Tartarus.
 Now, in the 21st century, the Boulder, CO based metal band who share the same name. Formed in 2006 under the shadow of the mighty Rocky Mountains, Centimani melds black metal with death/thrash metal to create a formidable artillery of sound that goes straight for the jugular. With lyrics based on warfare and the bloodshed that ensues, each song smashes against your brain like axe meeting shield. Now, after sharing the stage with the likes of Cephalic Carnage, Abigail Williams, and Macabre; and after the release of a three song EP in 2010, Centimani is poised to attack with a brand new full length CD titled, “Aegaeon” in 2012! Recorded by Steve Goldberg of the mighty Cephalic Carnage, and featuring guest violin work, Aegaeon is proving to be an unstoppable colossus, ready to strike! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Centimani">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.