There are four artists with this name.
1. A Touhou japanese project.
2. A heavy metal band from Trenton, NJ.
3. A brutal deathcore band from Dallas, TX.
4. A screamo/hardcore band from Pittston, PA.
5. A piano-driven indie/post-rock band from Eureka, IL.

1.  A Touhou japanese project. One MiniAlbum: CENTRALIA / Hikari shuuyou no Souko feat. Kagamine Rin 

2. (Trenton, NJ)
Hailing from the Philadelphia/Trenton area, Centralia burst onto the scene in early 2005 with a vision to bring good music to the masses. Tired of seeing how the heavy music scene has been mired with cookie cutter sound-alikes, the band came together to do something a little different.

Originally a 4 piece, Centralia made their mark by writing hard hitting music, while maintaining an original style that comprises most heavy styles of music, along with clean melody as well

As a 4 piece, Centralia recorded their self-produced EP, The Burning Hell Below. This 5 song EP showcased Centralia’s heavier side, and at the same time, showcasing Mark’s vocal ability and range.

Centralia started to grow musically, and their writing shows it. But, with growing, usually comes growing pains. Centralia realized that to fill out their sound, something more was needed.

Trying different additions to the band seemed unfruitful. Several musicians were tested, but none seemed to know what Centralia were aiming for. 

Finally, Joe Gorski auditioned for the band. Joe has a history of playing with other local area bands, and has been signed to record labels before. Also, his experience brought a depth to the writing style of Centralia. The band was now complete.

The future for Centralia looks bright. With a hunger for ever expanding their musical knowledge and style, they look forward to broadening their horizons, and becoming more accessible for the world’s entertainment!

Mark Monette: Vocals-No Longer a Part of the group
Ken Scholl: Guitars
Joe Gorski: Guitars
Lou Martofel: Bass
Matt Cook: Drums

3. (Dallas, TX-R.I.P)Hailing from Dallas, Texas CENTRALIA is a brutally technical, rip your face off, progressive hardcore, metal band. With a wide variety of influences ranging from Botch to Glassjaw to Cat Stevens, CENTRALIA creates a raw and aggressive sound that is entirely their own. Easily one of the most impressive bands in the Texas hardcore scene today. 
Jacob Delott - Guitars
Brady Kinkade - Bass
Ryan Sprague - Drums
Zach Jones - Vocals

4. Centralia is a five-piece Christian screamo and hardcore band from Pittston, Pennsylvania.

5. Centralia (formerly The Centralia Mine Fire) is a five-piece piano-driven indie/post-rock band with Christian influences from Eureka (right outside of Peoria), IL. Playing shows all over the Midwest, they've had the opportunity to share the stage with some well-known nationally touring artists such as Tokyo Police Club, Forgive Durden, La Dispute, Native, Deas Vail, Hostage Calm, The Graduate, My Heart To Joy, The Forecast, Rodeo Ruby Love, Anarbor, The Ready Set, Children 18:3, and many more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Centralia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.