The journey of the Swedish metal band Centicore started in the winter of 2003 by firm intention from Niclas Lindblom to capture and form an energetic metal band. Due to the urge for creating intense and expressional music, he contacted three other great musicians, Mattias Johansson on vocals, Robert Olofsson on drums and Simon Moberg on guitar. A time of composing and rehearsal took place, and in the summer of 2004 Centicore entered the studio to record five songs which are found on the demo Art of Sin. The result was impressive, and the immediate reactions from different listeners were quite satisfying.

In late fall of 2004 the drummer had a change of heart and left the band due to reasons unknown. Minor setbacks could not stop the strife, and so began Centicores search for hungry and professional musicians in the local area. It was not long before the band got hold of Jens Gustavsson, a formidable drummer, and Mattias Lindh who entered the low bass regions of Centicores music.

This was indeed a turning point for the band and they started working on new material, now fully recharged with inspiration and the energy from five strong individuals. New material started to emerge with a natural sense of keeping the originality and the metal frenzy energy intact. Centicore was at this point planning for a new recording and their determination was to give the metal world what it wanted. In September of 2005 the moment came for Centicore to express what they have been creating. The attitude and the will to reach a new level of soundscaping were undisputed. The band recorded six new tracks for the Insanium demo and the outcome was indeed satisfying for all involved. The material is more varied and expressive from their original sounds. Some of the reactions from fans produced quotes like, "Ruthless Monstrous Riffing".

Centicores music, with its multi-layered attack of pure aggression, scathing melody and lyrical content will assault and infect anything that it comes in contact with. Centicore are determined to be the next big thing- of the metal scene in a very near future. This story has only just begun... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Centicore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.