tech/gore/grind from berlin. (Germany)

Nikolas Voynich - Vocals
Martin Bahre - Guitar
Marte McFly - Guitar
Fux - Bass
Marcus Klemm - Drums 

"Cerebric Turmoil was formed in 2006 by Martin Bahre (guitar), Marcus Klemm (drums), Jacob Schmidt (bass – also Defeated Sanity) and Felix Kögler (vocals), with the intention to play some twisted and brutal death metal influenced by mathcore, funky and jazzy stuff. After the recording of their “turn of oppression” demo, the band started playing shows with Moritz Bossmann (from UNSOUL) as session guitarist.
A short time later C.T. had to quit for a while, because Marcus suffered from an injury on his left wrist. In the beginning of 2007 the band turned back and played some awesome shows again. Also, they found Tom “Fountainhead” Geldschläger (also Purpose Effect, The Living, The Fractured Dimension, …) who finally filled the second guitar slot. With this line-up the band recorded a promotional CD in late 2007, which was released in 2008 as a Split-EP with Defeated Sanity.
Due to some problems C.T. split up in the middle of 2008 and Jacob became a full-time member of Defeated Sanity, while Felix joined the Berlin based death metal/hardcore band Fat Mans War Face. Tom went on with his other projects and Martin joined the Berlin slam death/hardcore band OPS.
In the end of 2009 Marcus and Martin decided to reform C.T. and started to write new songs. The next step was to find musicians to bring the madness on stage again. With Fux (ex- Orth, Cyness, Bonestorm, Nuclear Tribunal, …) they found a replacement for Jacob on bass and the second guitar slot has been filled by Marte “McFly” Auer (also Johnston). The vocal part was taken by Priscila (ex- Sinners Bleed, Arise) and C.T. was back on stage in 2010.
As Pris decided to move to Norway, Nikolas Voynich (also Requital) replaced her on the vocals.
2011 Cerebric Turmoil was signed by Amputated Vein Records, a brutal death metal label from Japan, and is currently working on their first full lendth CD.
C.T. shared the stage with bands such as: Hate Eternal, Defeated Sanity, Obituary, Prostitute Disfigurement, Amputated, Desecration, Fleshgore, Gadget, Sanatorium, Hate, Grind Inc., Mental Horror, Fleshless, Prejudice, Extreme Noise Terror, Sinners Bleed, Centaurus A, Harmony Dies, Natron, War From A Harlots Mouth, Hypnos and many more…" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cerebric+Turmoil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.