Cerebral Bore are a death metal band based in Glasgow, Scotland. Although the name was used with different members in 2004, the Cerebral Bore that exists now wasn't born until 2006. From then, the main focus of the band has been to write brutal music and bring it to metal fans all over the planet.
The Band recorded the E.P. "The Dead Flesh Architect" in November 2006, and played their first show the same month.

For the next few months they played only in their home town, and made their first steps out of Scotland in June 2007, playing in Belfast, Northern Ireland. And then made their first impression on the UK scene in July 2007, playing in London alongside Dead Infection, Beef Conspiracy & Amputated,  and heading to Newcastle the day after to play at the Blastonbury Festival in Support of Anal Cunt as well as dozens more.

Staying true to their early ambitions of taking their music as far and wide as they could, in August 2007 the band were booked to play in New york City, USA after having a song played on mainstream metal radio in NY.

On their first trip outside Britain, they shared the stage with bands like Mortician, Deceased and Criminal Element in the Mean Fiddler in Manhattan New york, where they were watched by Type O Negative frontman, Pete Steele.

The band were faced with early problems with their front man deserting the band only weeks before their American tour, and this problem plagued them until November 2007 where they found a new front man. They continued playing shows throughout the UK, supporting bands like Origin, Gorerotted, Napalm death, the Black Dahlia Murder, Brutal Truth and many more.

In early 2008 the band were offered the chance to play at Central Illinois metal fest in the USA, and decided to go ahead and book a 2nd American tour which saw them spend 6 weeks on the road, touring from Las Vegas, Nevada all the way to the opposite coast to New york city. The tour was booked without a booking agent, and through determination and luck, they went ahead and managed to book shows along side California bands Inherit Disease and Condemned. As well as playing in support of some of the biggest bands in the genre, including Origin, Suffocation, Mortician, Insidious Decrepancy, Waking the Cadaver & Devourment to name a few.

After arriving home from the tour, the band were back on the road 2 weeks later traveling to Switzerland to play at the Mountains of Death Open Air Festival set in the Swiss Alps, where they played with bands like Cephalic Carnage, Despised Icon, Inveracity & Misery Index.
The band continued constant shows throughout the UK & Ireland, playing regularly with bands like Reth, Infected Disarray, Introrectalgestation and many more top end UK bands.
In December 2008, the band traveled to Portugal, where they played along side DM legends Macabre at the Butchery at Xmastime fest, in the town of Guarda.
Already in 2009, the band have shows lined up in Greece, Finland, Russia, France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland. As well as UK tours supporting bands like Putrid Pile & Viral Load. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cerebral+Bore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.