John Arnold – Guitar/Vocals
Marc Battung – Bass
Joe Arnold – Vocals/Percussion
Jimmy Schultz – Drums

Formed 2009 in Long Beach, Cerebellion has forged a dark yet melodic sound, reflective of both the beauty and despair that seamlessly blend within their native backdrop of Southern California. Their collaborative writing approach inspires a unique sound that is both harsh and sensitive, crushing yet ambient, and crafty yet simple. From skull-crushing, bludgeoning grooves to the beauty of layered flamenco acoustic guitars, the deep and varied instrumental canvas created by Cerebellion naturally provokes wonder and contemplation while the lyrics complete the cohesion of sound and thought. Continuing what they started in 2010 with Inalienable, Cerebellion returns with their sophomore effort Regeneration, further solidifying the band’s ability to stand out amongst a genre saturated with sameness and unoriginality. Once again their lack of creative boundaries has allowed them to develop more than just a collection of songs but a truly dynamic album containing their best work to date.  Regeneration is set to be released June 2, 2015.

Out of the gates, Cerebellion’s 2010 debut album, ‘Inalienable,’ achieved awe-inspiring acclaim from both fans and critics alike. Several songs were voted by listeners into top positions on MTV’s Ourstage.com, including a #1 Metal hit with ‘Undeniable’ and #1 Hard Rock Video for ‘Not the Final Destination.’ They were also nominated for ‘Best Metal Newcomer of 2010’ by Metalunderground.com alongside The Damned Things and Warbeast. The band’s single ‘Just Under the Surface’ was a top 10 most requested song on The KJML107.1 among artists such as Mastodon, Korn, and Avenged Sevenfold. The band released music videos for ‘Just Under the Surface,’ ‘Not the Final Destination,’ and ‘Breach of Security’. Cerebellion brought its energetic and engaging live act to audiences up and down the west coast of California and between states in the western desert region of the country for two years after the release of Inalienable, between 2010 and 2012.

Critics have compared the band’s sound to Tool, Metallica, Alice in Chains, and Machine Head. Cerebellion also offers a distinct Flamenco/Latin flavor to the likes of The Gypsy Kings and Santana.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cerebellion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.