CEREMONIAL PERFECTION is a five-piece metal band from Tallinn, Estonia, formed in late 2007. The band's ascent is impressive, especially considering the members' average age of under 20. In a mere three years they have played extensively in Estonia, while also managing a scattering of performances abroad, including a successful two-and-a-half-week tour of Russia, sharing stages with Finland's massively renowned NORTHER. The melodic foundation of the band's music is suffused in heavy riffs and atmospheric keys, thus making the concordant essence of their songs embraceable both by headbangers as well as those wholly unfamiliar with metal. 

Work on the band's debut full-length began in the spring of 2010. "Alone in the End" was recorded at Sinusoid Studios, the birthplace of the best-sounding records in Estonia, produced and co-arranged by Kristo Kotkas, a top sound engineer sought-after in all of Scandinavia. Artwork for the eight-page booklet was crafted by one of the best graphic masters in Europe, Björn Gosses of Killustrations Studio, famous for designs implemented, among other top acts, by AMON AMARTH, KATAKLYSM and SIX FEET UNDER. 

"Alone in the end" will be released by Nailboard Records in Estonia and Fono Ltd. in Russia/CIS. The Nailboard Records release entails two versions: a color digipak and a deluxe box, which includes the album, a t-shirt, a patch and a poster. 

"Alone in the end" track listing:

01. Intro
02. Symbols and Processes 
03. Blinding White 
04. Havoc 
05. Autumn of Memories 
06. Through Your Devil Nature 
07. My Labyrinth 
08. Asymmetry 
09. Tomorrow of Today

Line-up:

Vitaly Beresnev - vocals
Roman Demchenko - drums
Kirill Senik - guitar
Aleksei "Sonic" Mattal - guitar
Ilya Petrov - bass
http://www.ceremonialperfection.com
http://www.myspace.com/ceremonialperfection

The band split up in early 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ceremonial+Perfection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.