Ceremonial Oath was formed in 1989 by Oscar Dronjak, under the name Desecrator. In 1989 they released their first demo, Wake the Dead, which featured three tracks. In 1990 they released a second demo, Black Sermons. Shortly after their demo recordings they changed their name to Cermonial Oath. 

In 1992 Ceremonial Oath recorded and released a 7" EP, The Lost Name of God, and later in 1993 they released their debut album, The Book of Truth. After the release of their first album, Oscar Dronjak left Ceremonial Oath to focus on Crystal Age and HammerFall, and Jesper Strömblad left to form In Flames. 

After a lineup change, Ceremonial Oath released Carpet in early 1995 before splitting up in the same year. Tracks New Sun and The Shadowed End appeared on the W.A.R. (Wrong Again Records) Compilation, which was released in 1995.

Ceremonial Oath is considered to be the first band to play melodic death metal.  Even prior to bands like In Flames and Dark Tranquillity.

Ceremonial Oath reunited in 2012 with the original line up of: 

Jesper Strömblad - Bass (The Resistance, Dimension Zero, ex-In Flames, ex-All Ends, ex-Sinergy, ex-Hammerfall)
Markus Nordberg - Drums (Desecrator (Swe), ex-Cemetary, ex-Braindead)
Anders Iwers - Guitar (Desecrator (Swe), Tiamat, ex-In Flames, ex-Cemetary, ex-Mercury Tide, ex-Lacuna Coil [live])
Oscar Dronjak - Vocals, Guitar (Desecrator (Swe), ex-Crystal Age, Hammerfall)

Discography

1989 - Wake The Dead (demo)
1. Intro
2. Remains of Death
3. Force of Habit

1990 - Black Sermons (demo)
1. Into The Abyss of Hell
2. The Invocator
3. Necrosis

1992 - The Lost Name of God (7" EP) - Corpse Grinder Records
1. The Lost Name of God
2. For I Have Sinned - The Praise


1993 - The Book of Truth - Modern Primitive Records
1. Prologue: Sworn To Avenge
2. Chapter I: The Invocator
3. Chapter II: For I Have Sinned - The Praise
4. Chapter III: Enthroned
5. Chapter IV: Only Evil Prevails
6. Chapter V: Thunderworld
7. Chapter VI: Lords Of Twilight
8. Chapter VII: Ceremonial Oath
9. Chapter VIII: The Lost Name Of God
10. Chapter IX: The Book Of Truth
11. Chapter X: Hellbound


1995 - Carpet - Black Sun Records
1. The Day I Buried
2. Dreamsong
3. Carpet 0
4. The Shadowed End (Lyrics and vocals by Thomas Lindberg)
5. One Of Us / Nightshade (Lyrics and vocals by Thomas Lindberg)
6. Immortalized (Lyrics and vocals by Thomas Lindberg)
7. Hallowed Be Thy Name (Iron Maiden Cover)


Former/past member(s)
Anders Fridén - Vocals (In Flames, Passenger, ex-Dark Tranquillity, ex-Septic Broiler)
Mikael Andersson - Guitar
Thomas Johansson - Bass (ex-Decollation, ex-Macabre End) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ceremonial+Oath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.