Chainfire don’t get your attention. They grab it from your throat.

There’s a reason that this commanding Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based hard rock/metal quartet is poised for dominance over the Canadian metal scene. Refusing to rest on their laurels and waiting for success to come to them, this bombastic outfit is in the trenches “grabbing” it for themselves. Relentless and pointed, Chainfire’s outlook is as cunning and powerful as their hard rock-infused metal.

Brad, Chris, Dick and Anna have already exceeded the seemingly-lofty goals of many peers including the release of independent full-length Details in January 2007 and the release of a music video for the track “Under Me” in early 2008. Finding its earliest incarnation a decade ago as childhood friends established their musical chops, Chainfire formed as a collection of Saskatoon’s most intense musicians brought together through similar musical interests and attitudes.

With a sound comprised of blistering rhythms capped by guttural albeit melodic vocal melodies thrust forward by grinding bass and drums, the Chainfire style is muscular and brutish, while still incredibly enticing. Twisting a diverse musical past together over a foundation of heavy metal, the inflections of many musical genres create a dynamic, forthright sound that is instantly unforgettable and original.

Adding to Chainfire’s list of accomplishments, their performances across the Prairies have garnered the band endless airplay for “Lay Down,” over two provinces, top honours and awards in a host of competitions and a ravenous fan base that is ever-growing. Dynamic and inventive while still clutching tightly onto unforgettable melodies and rhythms, the nine songs that comprise Details translate into boundless energy and restless ambition. With a new album currently in the works Chainfire is getting set push their “No bull shit” attitude once again, with all new blast you in the face metal.

INSTRUMRNTATION
Brad - Guitar/Vocals
Anna - Bass
Dick - Guitar/Backing Vocals
Chris - Drums

DISCOGRAPHY
"Details" - Full length, Released 01/20/2007
- The album has been receiving airplay in throughout Canada.
- All tracks and CD available at HMV Canada, cdbaby.com, Itunes, Napster, etc.
- Music video release for "Under Me" in may of 2008 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chainfire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.