There are a number of artists named Chalice.

1. Chalice (real name Jarek Kasar) is a hip-hop artist from Estonia. Musically working in the areas of A Tribe Called Quest and other Native Tongues members, Chalice's music is sometimes jazz-driven, sometimes funk-driven. You can hear him sing in falsetto and rap ultra fast. But the common denominator is always a personal approach to life and music around himself.

He has released five albums as Chalice: "Ühendatud Inimesed" in 2003, "Süsteemsüsteem" in 2005, and "Taevas ja Perse" in 2007, which were released under Umblu Records, as well as "Supervõimed" in 2008 and "Lärmakas Naabrimees" in 2012, both released under Superbandiit Records.
______
2. Chalice was a metalcore band who released their album Deathmask Grin on Takehold Records in 2002, the same label which also released Underoath's first two albums.
______
3. Chalice was a Gothic-doom metal band from Adelaide, South Australia. The group released three albums and was perhaps Australia's most notable Gothic metal band for a number of years before splitting up in 2007.

The band was formed by singer/keyboards player Shiralee Morgan and drummer Adrian Bickle in late 1996. The pair was at the time in a band called Jeneaha that released a demo before breaking up. Morgan and Bickle continued the project under the new name of Chalice. With guitarists Sean Graetz and Darren McLennan (from fellow Adelaide band Fury), bass player Mark Bodossian and Russell providing violin, the band recorded Chronicles of Dysphoria which won them the attention of Melbourne label Modern Invasion. In the meantime Justin Hartwig had replaced McLennan, who departed to continue with Fury and Alannah Probert also joined the band playing flute in place of the violinist. Chronicles of Dysphoria was then re-recorded with updated arrangements and released through Modern Invasion in 2000. In October they then featured at the Metal for the Brain festival in Canberra.

Chalice recorded their second album during 2001 and it was released in October to coincide with another appearance at Metal for the Brain, this on the main stage. Bodossian left the group after this and was replaced by Simon Henderson in time for a tour of the east coast in early 2002. Bodossian later joined the British doom band Esoteric.

During 2003 Chalice completed their third album, Augmented, featuring some cello parts from Joel Baligod and Infernal Method member Joss Separovic contributing Spanish guitar in the track "Child of the Matador". The band also supported Opeth and Mayhem during their Australian tours that year.

Adrian Bickle departed Chalice in 2005 and was replaced by Matt Enright. The group then did a tour of New Zealand during the year. A new EP was completed by mid-2006. Featuring strings provided by the Zephyr Quartet, "The Calm That Was the Storm" was Probert's last release with the band as she left prior to its release. A video was made of the title track and was included on the resultant CD. After this, the band's activities seemed to freeze for almost a year. On 5 May 2007, Justin Hartwig posted to the group's internet forum that he and the rest of Chalice had split from Morgan, bringing the group to an end and announcing a forthcoming new band called Black Orchid. Morgan has since contended that she too will continue a separate musical avenue.

You can learn more about the band on Wikipedia
______
4. Chalice is also a roots reggae band from Jamaica who recorded at Joe Gibbs' studio.

Chalice started in the 1980s and had tremendous local success but was not as successful on the international stage. They are probably best known for their performances at the Sunsplash Reggae Music Festivals. Their music was a free-style and always provided a party vibe that was irresistible. Although one of its founding members would later join Third World, the group lasted throughout the 1980s and produced hits like "Can't Dub", "Good to be there", "Dangerous Disturbances", "Stand Up", "I'm trying", "Pocomania Day", "I still Love you" to name the more memorable ones. Their 1987 collection, Up Till Now, is a best of from these reggae ambassadors.
______
5. Chalice were an English band that migrated to Perth, Western Australia in the early 70s and basically played covers of the day for a few years. After gathering a good fan base they moved to Sydney and recorded their one only album 'Overflow' produced by John English. 

---------
6. Chalice is a Heavy Metal band formed in 2016 in Helsinki, Finland. The band has released a Demo in 2017 and an EP named Silver Cloak in 2019. In the end of 2020, Chalice released its debut album - Trembling Crown - under High Roller Records (Germany) label. The band also played their first live show in 2019 at the Chaos Descends festival, in Germany.

Chalice is heavily influenced by 70s progressive rock and 80s traditional Heavy Metal, but also having influences ranging from Gothic rock to Extreme Metal.

You can find more about their music on Bandcamp and Facebook

------ 

In addition, Chalice is:
* a Belgian death/trash metal band;
* an 80s metal band from the States;
* a collaboration of Wayvee from New Zealand and DVNGLEz from Canada.

Not to be mistaken with the profilic, yet little known German Prog/Power Metal act Châlice


Belgian Chalice's Homepage

Canadian/NZ Chalice's Soundcloud

More information about the Estonian Chalice - http://www.umblu.com/?p=47 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chalice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.