Champaign were an R&B band with adult contemporary leanings from the 1980s, best known for their 1981 hit "How 'Bout Us." The interracial septet, who named themselves after their hometown of Champaign, Illinois, USA, included Pauli Carman and Rena Day on vocals; Michael Day and Dana Walden on keyboards; Howard Reeder on guitar; Michael Reed on bass; and Rocky Maffitt on percussion/drums. The title track in their 1981 album, How 'Bout Us, was a hit single, reaching Top Five in the United Kingdom and on the United States R&B charts (also #12 U.S. Pop). Their second album, Modern Heart, was released in 1983 and contained the Top Ten R&B track "Try Again." Another follow-up, 1984's Woman in Flames, contained the Top Ten R&B song "Off and On Love." Other songs include "Party People" and "Walkin'".

In the mid 80s Carman left the band to begin a solo career. He released his first solo album, Dial My Number in 1986, scoring an R&B hit with the title track. His second album, It's Time was released the following year. This follow-up effort proved less successful.

In 1990, Champaign (including Carman) reconvened to record, and the Champaign IV album was released the following year. While it was not a smash hit, it did herald a brief return to the R&B chart with the single "Trials of the Heart."

In 2003, a 'greatest hits' compilation album was released that included most of the group's hits, though several (most notably "Try Again") were absent.

Band member Michael Day died of cancer in 2001.
 
In 2008, Pauli Carman original lead singer continues to represent the group "Champaign". The Carma album, released in 2008, included original songs along with a remake of The Beatles' "And I Love Her" and the Stevie Wonder track "I Love, I Love". 

In 2010, Get Back 2 Love was released (included a remaster of "How 'Bout Us"). The title track "Get Back 2 Love" made reference to Champaign's top hits. 

In 2010, the single "Mercy" was released (a remake of the Marvin Gaye hit "Mercy Mercy Me)". This single was to assist those affected by the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. A portion of the proceeds was donated to various agencies assisting with the clean up and restoration in the area.
 
In November 2010, Carman produced The Pauli Carman Show (a TV pilot online show). 

In 2011, the single "Share" was released from the album (The Kind) to be released in 2012.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Champaign">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.