There are two bands called Chaos Divine:

1. Hailing from Perth, Western Australia.

The resume speaks for itself – two critically acclaimed releases, domestic and international tours and festival appearances, and a bag of music gongs from Triple J, the West Australian Music Industry and the Australian Heavy Music Awards.

In 2011, Perth’s Chaos Divine are without peer in Australian metal. Their intricate and melodic brand is pregnant with a progressive ambition that challenges both fans and band members alike. Now, with a world of possibility before them, Chaos Divine deliver The Human Connection – the band’s most accomplished album to date.

Engineered by Chaos guitarist, Simon Mitchell and mixed and mastered by Swedish metal guru Jens Bogren (Opeth, Katatonia, Symphony X), The Human Connection is an aggressively adventurous canvas consisting of nine epic tracks that will satiate the most fervent fans of intelligent metal.

Like the band’s Avalon and Ratio releases before it, the new work is a fierce display of musical virtuosity and bludgeoning force. But where its predecessors served to establish the band’s formidable sound, Chaos Divine’s sophomore album is an exercise in evolution.

While the highly successful collaboration with Bogren has endowed the new record with a lustre rarely achieved by Australian metal acts, it’s the material that must be credited with the album’s maturity. Abrasive yet refined, organic yet tempered, The Human Connection is an exploration of the band’s abilities to create music capable of transcending genres and scenes.

While the driven five-piece have constructed the most inimitable musical statement of their career, it’s the live realm in which these new sonic formulas will be proven. Having graced stages with giants such as Slayer, Mastodon and Trivium, Chaos Divine have carved a reputation as one of Australia’s most devastating live acts - a reputation that precedes them at home and abroad.

With their dues paid up and an inferno in their gut, Chaos Divine are poised, ready to realise the next chapter in their ascension through the ranks of international metal.

The Human Connection is due for release in Australia through Firestarter Music & Distribution on March 25 early 2011. In all other regions the album will be available digitally through iTunes International.

2. Chaos Divine was a short lived Colombian power metal band. They released two demos. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chaos+Divine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.