From the official myspace page - myspace.com/chaosdaemonsweden

The whole idea of Chaosdaemon started back in the beginning of 1998, when Göran Johansson (ex. Torchbearer, ex. Setherial) asked his friend Roger Lagerlund (Sargoth) if he would like to participate in what would later become Chaosdaemon. The duo recorded 2 songs on a 4-tracker in February that year, but nothing more happened, as the timing couldn't have been worse. Göran moved away to study audio engineering for a year and Roger was handling the drums in the black metal band Sargoth, a band that at the time had a lot going on. 
Although, in 1999, Göran was about to finish his studies and decided to combine school and work, and brought up Roger to his school to record the first real Chaosdaemon Promo Demo. He used this recording as a final project and although his teachers were shocked with the aggression and the extreme sound of the music, he passed with good honours. The Promo contained three songs. After this, there was silence... 

In the year 2002, however, the duo decided to begin anew, this time with backup in the form of a lead guitarist. Olov Jansson (Sargoth, Haimad), colleague to Roger in Sargoth, and also one of the founders of the black metal band Haimad, was more than welcome in the band. During that year, Chaosdaemon negotiated with several labels and was offered a few contracts, although after long discussions within the band, they decided not to sign any contracts at this time. There were several reasons for this, mostly because they lacked enough equipment for proper rehearsals, but also because they felt that they didn't have the time to produce a full-length album in short time. A Chaosdaemon debut album was not something to be put together overnight. The decision made was to wait and record another Promo Demo. It took a while... 

In July 2004, Chaosdaemon finally began the recording of the second Promo Demo, Phantasmagoria Morbide (working title). It contained 4 songs and times in at approximately 22 minutes. The Promo was recorded at Göran's private studio, Wolfblood Studio Productions, but never saw the light of day, ddue to Göran's failure to get the final mixes sound the way he wanted to. Several months passed and several mixes were made, although nothing came out satisfactory. During the time, Chaosdaemon slowly began to die and in 2007, the members decided to put Chaosdaemon to sleep, due to several reasons, but mainly because the interest to keep rehearsing at that level to maintain the technical skills was too demanding for the band. 

The decision was made to try and get a final mix of the latest recorded material done and find a label to release what will be the tombstone of Chaosdaemon. So far, the mix has yet to be completed... 

Sundsvall, 2008-01-01 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chaosdaemon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.