Chaosweaver is a Finnish symphonic extreme metal band which has released two demos and two albums, as well as two singles. The lineup currently consists of keyboardist Max Power, drummer Jack Tyger, guitarist Albert von Fleischer and singer Cypher Commander.

Formed in 2004, Chaosweaver draws its influences from old horror movies, historic-mythical literature and illustrious composers such as Jean Sibelius, Carl Orff and Richard Wagner and after two internationally praised demos, the band signed to a fresh Finnish label Shadow World Records to release their debut album Puppetmaster of Pandemonium.

Lyrical themes for it stretch from World War II bombers of Flaming Rain to the ancient Chaos Gods of White Noise, from vampyric agony of Locked in a Coffin to old Finnish mythology and folklore of Son of the Moon. The musical side widens the concept even further beyond the boundaries of normality. Chaosweaver yanks the strings of pandemonium to the direction it wants, as the ominous name of their debut shamelessly declares.

The debut features also prominent guests - Rotten, former vocalist of Deathchain growls on five of the tracks, Ville Sorvali of Moonsorrow growls on one song and Jules Näveri of Profane Omen provided clean vocals for one song, while Aleksi Munter of Swallow the Sun played guest keyboards. The lead vocals of the album were first recorded by now former band member Kole, who sung also on the two demos, Weaving the Chaos of 2006 and Cult of the Buried Serpent of 2007. In 2008 though, they decided to change vocalist to Cypher Commander and re-recorded the lead vocals with him.

After a few lineup changes that saw the departure of Thab Picard and Ezzymania 2000 (neither of whom were replaced, however the band does enlist Mika Pusa and Janne Niiranen on bass and guitar respectively to play in a live environment), 2012 saw the band release their second album Enter the Realm of the Doppelgänger via Napalm Records. The story and visual concept was conceived entirely by Max Power, and the album as a whole is more of an 'epic', with a lot of string theory and stuff about the multiverse taking centre stage. From the epic track Maelstrom of Black Light which the band released a video for, to the adventurous Infected the doomier A Requiem For A Lost Universe and the haunting Ragnarök Sunset it is indeed an adventurous release that oozes confidence and talent.

As with their last release, Enter the Realm of the Doppelgänger also features some guest performances. Peik Mattheiszen of Woland and Cavus provides vocals for Ragnarök Sunset, as does Micko Hell of Sargo Fvck and Suvi Grym, and Infection of Sotajumala, Horna and Empyrean Bane contributes some vocals for A Requiem For A Lost Universe.

Current line-up:
Max Power - Keyboards, vocals Kuolemanlaakso
Jack Tyger - Drums ex-Mystification
Albert von Fleischer - Guitar Kuolemanlaakso, ex-Verjnuarmu
Cypher Commander - Vocals Deathchain, Shade Empire, ex-Trollheim's Grott, ex-Ajattara

Former members:
Kole - Lead vocals Beherit, MMD, ex-Mystification
Janne Hakuli - Drums
Jake - Drums
Ezzymania 2000 - Guitars
Jere Kortelainen - Guitars Slowmotion Downpour, ex-TerrorCreation
Thab Picard - Keyboards ex-Chaoslord

Website: http://www.chaosweaver.info/
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChaosweaverBand <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chaosweaver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.