CHAOS MAGIC is the new alliance between Finnish songwriter/producer Timo Tolkki (formerly of STRATOVARIUS) and Chilean singer Caterina Nix. Nix previously collaborated with Timo on the second chapter of the AVALON rock opera "Angels Of The Apocalypse", where she shared lead vocals on songs with such singers as Simone Simons (EPICA), Elize Ryd (AMARANTHE), and Floor Jansen (NIGHTWISH).

Caterina's career started by singing lead vocals for the Chilean metal band AGHONYA with whom she opened shows for such bands as AFTER FOREVER, EDGUY and WITHIN TEMPTATION.

"I met Timo in Chile some years ago, during one of his visits to the country with STRATOVARIUS," says Caterina. "I remember going to a meet-and-greet with the band, and Timo and I just started talking like we had known each other for ages. We developed a very nice sort of father-to-daughter friendship and we have been in contact ever since. One day I decided to send him my music, just to know his opinion about it, and thankfully, he was pleasantly surprised. That's how it all started, really."

The "Chaos Magic" album was written, performed and produced by Tolkki to develop the vocal talent of Caterina and shows a diverse side of Timo's musical talents.

"I feel the music Timo created for this project is very current, it's strong and also shows some more delicate moments, without losing its edge," says Caterina. "It was a joy for me to sing these beautifully contagious songs. I did my best to bring emotion and passion into the songs, which I guess wasn't so hard, since I was truly so excited."

She adds: "I hope this album reaches several layers of music listeners. It's quite captivating and nothing would make me happier than singing these songs live... giving myself to the audience and feeling that connection, which is truly priceless to me."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chaos+Magic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.