CHARLES HAMILTON is officially back. The critically revered Harlem rapper, songwriter, and producer has inked a deal with Republic Records, and he’s readying new music for release later this year.

Signing to Sarah Stennett's label Turnfirst he has been developing his first debut album. After breaking a three-year silence with the explosive “Correct” snippet last month, his latest track, “New York Raining”, will be featured on the season finale of Fox’s Empire (he appears with Rita Ora)—airing March 18, 2015. The engaging anthem sees HAMILTON’s honest storytelling, clever wordplay, and mic prowess on full display in between a soulful and shimmering hook. It’s the perfect introduction to his next chapter. 

This week, Charles Hamilton will be performing new music during an intimate show at Sayers Club in Los Angeles Wednesday February 18.

“Charles is back and the excitement for his return is immeasurable. The enthusiasm in the marketplace is overwhelming and we are thrilled to participate in the evolution of his career.” – Monte Lipman, Co-Founder & Chief Executive, Republic Records

“Charles is one of the world’s most prolific, proficient, and powerful MC's. He's also an accomplished musician who brings an organic musical element that has been missing in Hip Hop. I’ve been a fan for a very long time, and I’m honored to work with him on what’s bound to be his defining work to date. To put it simply, I can’t wait for the world to hear what he’s got on the horizon!” – Wendy Goldstein, EVP A&R, Head of Urban A&R, Republic Records

"Charles Hamilton's extra ordinary talent, courage and determination in overcoming the challenges of his condition have inspired not only everyone at Turnfirst but anyone who is privileged enough to see him perform and to understand the journey he has had. We are very excited about sharing his debut record with the world shortly." – Sarah Stennett, CEO, Turnfirst 

CHARLES HAMILTON’s journey has been nothing short of triumphant. In 2009, he received the public endorsement of Eminem, scored a major label deal, appeared on the cover of XXL’s prestigious annual Freshmen issue, and had released a string of universally adored mixtapes and EPs. Behind the scenes, he faced the horrors of bipolar disorder and addiction, bravely going through treatment alone. Emerging with his condition under control, HAMILTON stands poised to finally make the impact he was born to make this year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Charles+Hamilton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.