1. Charn was a German speed/power metal band form Berlin. A self-proclaimed "space metal" project of well-known German Heavy Metal producer Harris Johns (Sodom, Kreator, Helloween among others), Charn combines the traditional Power/Speed Metal style with futuristic/spacey sounding electronic effects and sounds. At times there are thrash metal influences and eastern influences in the song 'Welcome'.

According to the CD's inner sleeve, Charn Blasts Off is the first part of a sci-fi tetralogy called "The Journey Through Sound and Space".

The other 3 albums haven't been released yet, although H. Johns stated in an interview from 2000, that he had material for a second album and planned to release it soon."

Lineup:
Harris Johns - Vocals, Guitar, Bass
Simon Fuhrmann - Guitar
Dag Borchert - Live Bass (Vehemence (Ger))
Klaus Walter - Drums

Former Members:
Matti Kaebs - Drums (S.A.D.O., V2)

An alternate version of the album was released exclusively in Japan.

Leadguitar on Queen and Saved - Peter Mason
Leadguitar on The Return - Frank Lehmann
Bass on 2000 Lightyears - Thomas Pätsch
Brutal Voice on The Lords : Brutus
Computervoice - Roy Dean Brown
Backing Vocals on The Return - Depressive Age
Lyrics by Roy Dean Brown and Harris Johns
Produced by Harris Johns

2. Alex and Phil Hicks met Levi Stugelmeyer as children in southwest Minnesota. After teaching themselves how to play their chosen instruments, they began to record demos in their basements and decided to move to Nashville for some inspiration. Motivated by artists like the Flaming Lips, Weezer, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers and Wilco, they found their own sound personally defined as somewhere between alt. rock and “Midwestern” rock. After 2 years in Nashville, the boys longed for the frigid temperatures, biting winds and Midwest hospitality they just weren’t getting in the south, and moved back to Minnesota in 2007. The following fall, Steve Bosmans joined the group on guitar in 2008, thus completing the inner sanctum known as Charn.

3. lofi outsider black metal based in NYC. Songs loosely inspired by Chronicles of Narnia, specifically the long winter portrayed in "The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/CHARN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.