In the late summer and early fall of 1991, Charlotte Webb Swenson started jamming with Eric Burres and Mark Justice. Charlotte, originally from Philadelphia and enrolled in the creative writing program at Bowling Green State University, was eager to play live original music that she had written. She'd recently been involved with Scabb but wanted to start a more serious effort focused around her own songs. Eric ran the local comic shop in BG and Mark played guitar and sang with Escaped Fetal Pigs.

Andrew and Matt were roommates in the infamous 150 Darrow Hall, and were starting their sophomore year at BGSU. Matt and Charlotte had met in a creative writing class the previous year. After much cajoling and convincing, Matt and Andrew both went to a few practices and sat in, working out lyrics from Charlotte's notes and old songs like S.O.S, Beckoning Graves, and Yuppie's Prayer, and drafting new songs gradually following the leads in the music.

Charlotte's Webb played their first show ever on Halloween 1991 at Easy Street Cafe in downtown Bowling Green (see photo at right). The lineup was Charlotte Webb Swenson on guitar, Eric Burres on bass, Mark Justice on drums (wicked cowbell!), Matt Duncan lead vocals, Andrew Fuller backing vocals.

University of Toledo's Angelo's Attic hosted the second Charlotte's Webb show, and this was soon followed by a set on campus at BGSU where the infamous "Fuck Censorship" band photo was taken. After hearing the tape from the soundboard, Matt decided to work on growling more than screaming, and the band decided to rent a 4-track and record during December of 1991. Matt met Dean Bianchi through Terri Lasher after the UT show, and Dean agreed to run sound during the 4-track sessions. The following semester, Dean worked with the band on the first studio demo as part of a music production course.

Through the course of Spring 1992, the band started falling apart as they all started taking themselves too seriously, and then tragedy struck. Mark had to take six months to a year off due to a back injury. Charlotte immediately sought to replace him, which ultimately led to Eric leaving the band.

In the summer of 1992, the band reformed, adding Jeff Tackett on guitar. Dean was convinced to move back to BG and became the new bass player. Lyrics became less collaborative and Andrew began singing more and more of his own lead vocals. The rest of the summer was spent searching for a drummer. Like the curse of Spinal Tap, Charlotte's Webb could not keep a drummer. Several of those who tried out were just not suited to the musical style. Finally, Shane McCallister of Fremont joined the band. Unfortunately, just before his first show with Charlotte's Webb, Shane went MIA until the night of the gig, and was asked to leave the band after playing that show.

As Fall 1992 wore on, local drummers Scott MacEachren and Jim Johnson (Kastrophy) came to the rescue and played live drums with Charlotte's Webb for several shows, each drummer learning half the band's set. In early 1993, the band went into the studio at R.T. Audio in Michigan. Rob Tylak engineered a three-part recording session that resulted in Charlotte's Webb's only professional demo. Scott and Jim played on those tracks as well, and Jim later considered joining the band.

Charlotte's Webb released their demo tape locally in Spring 1993 and played several more shows in Bowling Green and the surrounding area. A full time drummer (Garth, maybe?) joined the band in mid-spring and played two shows with the band. Tim Arndt (Haga, neartheparenthesis) joined the band for these two shows, as well, running samples live (additions made to songs during recording based on recommendations by Andrew, Matt, and Dean).

As time went on, guests were asked to join the band onstage during "Imperative." Phil Seibert, Michael Turgon, and Chip Carter all chimed in with their own verses during the rap-metal song, but of particular power and significance was the performance of Artis Moore of Black Minds of Music.

Charlotte's Webb's final show was in early summer 1993 at the Fremont Metal Fest. Jim's band Kastrophy played and Jim was involved in setting up the show. This was easily the largest venue and crowd the band had ever played for, and tape sales after the set were high.

Unfortunately, creative differences started to take their toll. Charlotte was interested in taking the band a very professional route and working to make the band's sound harder and louder. She wanted to practice more often as well. Andrew was about to graduate from BGSU and was likely moving home to Lincoln, Nebraska in August of 1993. Dean was searching for lucrative work as he commuted to practice from Cleveland every weekend, and Matt was set to graduate in December of 1993. Matt and Andrew quit one Friday evening in June, but Dean stayed with the band a few more weeks. Eventually he left as well, and Charlotte's Webb was over.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Charlotte%27s+Webb">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.