released 29 January 2013
Album Credits
• All songs performed by: Chariots of the Gods
• All songs written by: Mathieu St-Amour & Renaud Jobin
• Produced by: Glen Robinson
• Mixed by: Glen Robinson
• Mastered by: Glen Robinson 
''I'm honored to be a part of this project'' - Glen Robinson (producer)

 Some things are just meant to be.

Chariots of the Gods was born in the warm summer of 2007 when Mathieu St-Amour along with past members Christian Methot and Christian Carrière decided to start playing music together and see what would happen.

Soon after, the other members of what was to become Chariots of the Gods “Mk-1” joined the band. With Rich O’Neil and Renaud Jobin, the five piece started to play more seriously.

With that line-up, Chariots of the Gods recorded in 2010 what was to become the “Reverence” EP. That first recording got them recognition on the local circuit and brought on better shows and opportunities. Right out of Canada's capital region, Chariots has been playing live and spreading their music throughout the land since 2008. Over the years, the band has produced itself on many venues around the country.

Unfortunatly, at the end of 2010, the band lost two of its original members. Needless to say, nothing could stop Chariots of the Gods ; they recruited young gun Payam Doryani and long time friend Dimitri Gervais. Chariots “Mk-2” was ready to go.

Chariots of the Gods is straight up, balls to the wall, in your face Heavy Metal. With blistering solos, gripping melodies and harmonies, rioting vocals and drums that just won’t quit, this is what its all about.

With a rock steady line-up, Chariots of the Gods is ready to let loose upon the world and unveil TIDES OF WAR, their first full length album. Produced by the acclaimed Glen Robinson (Gwar, Annihilator, Queensryche, Voivod), Chariots of the Gods will storm the world and take no prisoners.

Pure, Heavy, Fuckin' Metal.
Ex members

Christian Carrière, guitar (2008-2011)
Christian Methot, bass (2008-2010) 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chariots+of+the+gods">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.