There are several artists named, Charlie Abbott


1) Charlie Abbott has always been a rebel. Lived hard, few regrets. After years of touring and playing with rock-and-roll bands, he’s finally stepping out on his own.

Excited about his new EP, Brand New Weather, the 23-year-old Nashville-based guitarist and singer/songwriter believes the five-cut EP represents his best work to date. American Cadence Records releases Brand New Weather on May 1.

“Charlie Abbott embraces the indie scene … and takes pride in stepping on the cracks. A preview of the upcoming EP shows that this is a guy who loves rock music unabashedly. Even the tender tunes have an edge,” writes reviewer Jennifer Barry at Awaiting the Flood. 

The EP is an eclectic mix of tried-and-true rock’n’roll and alternative country with an attitude. Honky-tonk guitars and Abbott’s aggressive yet passionate vocals capture a sound both familiar and fresh in an era of music hell-bent on ignoring the past.

Brand New Weather reflects Abbott’s take on life, relationships and relentless desire to step onto a larger stage. The music spans a highly-charged emotional landscape from the driving, upbeat bluesy tempo of Sister to the soulful introspective of The High Wire. Whatever and The Condor Song are quirky and lyrical, and showcase Abbott’s strong vocal performances found throughout the EP. Breezy retro rock Am I the Only One takes a page from the 70s and embodies Abbott’s confidence and swagger.

Abbott has toured the country for years, playing shows and drawing crowds in major cities including Nashville, Chicago and New York. He’s currently engaged with several projects in Nashville and frequently can be seen ripping guitar solos in clubs all over town. In 2008 he traveled to Portland to record an album with Everclear front man Art Alexakis, a game-changing experience.

His music is heavily influenced by artists ranging from The Rolling Stones to Modest Mouse.

Abbott grew up in Middleton, Wisconsin. He bought his first Gibson guitar at age 14 with money he made selling burgers, taught himself to play and started a band. After a few run-ins with the law and getting kicked out of high school, he moved to Minneapolis, started playing guitar professionally, and smashed any idea of leading a so-called “normal” life. 

“Never let it be said that I took the easy path,” Abbott says, with the hint of a smile. “But there was always this fire in me – this passion for music – and I didn’t really care about anything else, certainly not going to work at some desk job. I paid a price for some of the decisions I made, but it got me to where I am today. My life is about music, it’s all I’ve ever wanted to do.” 

Abbott also plays classical piano, drums and is teaching himself pedal steel guitar. 

An impromptu trip to Nashville in 2009 orchestrated a major turning point in his career. “I had no idea what to expect, but once I got here I loved it.”

Abbott said the record is one of the most satisfying and rewarding projects he’s ever worked on. And a lot of the credit goes to Logan Buerlein, who recorded, mixed and co-produced the record. “I’m very proud and excited to be a part of the American Cadence family,” he said.

2) Charlie Abbott is a music producer and beatmaker from Boston, MA, Living in Aomori, Japan who also teaches high school English <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Charlie+Abbott">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.