Producer Nitai "Charan" Boschma (born August 1988) is known for his Dancehall Reggae beats, or 'Riddims' with an Electronic/Dance twist.
The combination of African, Indian and Latin American percussion with Synth based beats are his trademark.

He has produced for Artists: Gyptian, Brilliant Upgraded, Gaza Maxwell, Kemmikal, Smiley, Rasskulz, Burgamn, Ashwin Jaydee, Le Prince, Fullanny, Q-Bah, Tania Christopher, Kodjo Mentor, Sanjah Lion, Invaydah, Toppa Bling and Avi

He recently released his compilation album "Like A Bosch", featuring Reggae & Dancehall Artists from across the globe.

From his childhood he listened to Reggae artists like Bob Marley, Dennis Brown, Ini Kamoze and Black Uhuru. At the young age of fifteen he already sat behind the buttons in various studios to handle the recording, mixing and mastering processes.
Charan came in the sales industry through his brother and became familiar with entrepreneurship.

He fluctuated  between multiple styles of beats, but when he travelled to Jamaica in the summer of 2011 it was clear to him: Reggae music is the way to go. "I stood at arms length from the mausoleum of Bob Marley when I realized what this music really meant to me, what one man can change in the consciousness of millions."
His travels from last year have led to several internatonal releases, including various riddims in Jamaica. One of his productions "Summer Summer" with the very established Artist Gyptian already received a lot of airplay in several countries and was able to reach number 2 in the Netherlands in the FunX charts.

Besides producing, he is also active as Reggae Artist. You can find him in the studio every day. His sound is a mix of  the rhythmic, danceable aspect of Dancehall with the messages and topics that you would expect of Roots Reggae. Similar to artists like Gentleman, I-Octane and Anthony B.

At this moment he is busy with the production of various singles, EPs and albums including 'Cyaan Bada' and 'Anthem' riddim juggling.

Releases:
Various Artists - Like A Bosch (album) All productions

Le Prince - The Unexpected (EP) Stop The Clocks & Thank You

Rasskulz & Le Prince - Cyaan Stop me (Single)

Invaydah - Naffi Gu Hard (Single) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Charan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.