"Charles Hayward (born 1952) is an English drummer and was the leader of the experimental rock group This Heat. He was also a member of Mal Dean's Amazing Band, Radar Favourites, Dolphin Logic, and gigged with Phil Manzanera, appearing with Manzanera's Quiet Sun project as well as Gong. 

In 1976, Hayward and fellow Radar Favourites and Dolphin Logic member, Charles Bullen began practising with bassist Gareth Williams under the name This Heat. They began to experiment with tape loops, found sounds and keyboards on several sessions (recorded from 1976 to 1978, but not released until 1979). Finally, in 1979, This Heat released their self-titled debut album. Williams left just after its release, and 1981's Deceit marked the final new album from This Heat. While Bullen began working as a studio engineer, Hayward did sessions for Lora Logic, the Raincoats and Everything But the Girl before forming Camberwell Now with bassist Trefor Goronwy and tape manipulator Stephen Rickard. The trio released several albums through the Swiss (sic...) Recommended label, but Hayward began to pursue a solo career by the early 1990s. Signed to Sub Rosa, he debuted with My Secret Alphabet in 1993. In 1998, he joined Massacre with Fred Frith and Bill Laswell. 

Hayward is also known at Deptford Albany, Deptford, London for his regular work with integrated cultural company Entelechy Arts, an ensemble whose artists include some with profound and learning disabilities. Some of the projects he is involved with there include Incredible Orkestra, (a composition and experimentation project for musicians and sound artists of all abilities), and Ambient Jam (a multi-media, movement and music improvisation event)..." 

source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Hayward_(musician)

official website: http://www.charleshayward.org <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Charles+Hayward">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.