There are five artists/bands named Chasm: 
1. Norwegian alternative rock band
2. Australian hip hop producer and DJ 
3. Scottish death metal group 
4. A pseudonym of Robert Hampson, who records as Main. 
5. Experimental/Progressive Metal band from New Zealand

-----

1) CHASM is an  alternative  rock band based in Volda, Norway .

CHASM does melodic and intense rock with an affinity for wide spaces and sophisticated sounds, and has been classified as both progressive, avant-garde and electronic during their relatively short career. Their debut "Cacophonic EP" was released in Norway September 2010 and in China June 2011, both followed by intensive touring in the respective countries, and their latest effort, the debut album "They" has furthermore fortified their following with what is labeled as a "refined, dynamic sound".

Their music have proven to be appealing to fans of Porcupine Tree, Coldplay, Mew, Madrugada, Tool and Pink Floyd.

Chasm may be found here:
http://www.OfficialChasm.com

-----

2) Chasm is one of the leading Hip Hop producers in Australia, signed to Obese Records, his debut solo album received critical acclaim and reached ‘feature album’ status on national youth radio, Triple J. He has also produced and remixed for a who’s who of Oz Hip Hop, from The Herd, Resin Dogs and Dialectrix to Thundamentals, Urthboy and Skryptcha.

Chasm’s group Astronomy Class, (comprising of himself, Ozi Batla and Sir Robbo) also released two albums to much acclaim, their first release ‘Exit Strategy’ a ‘feature album’ on Triple J and their sophmore release ‘Pursuit of Happiness’ being nominated for an ARIA Award.

“This Is How We Never Die” is the refreshingly on-point third instalment from prestigious Sydney producer Chasm. True to the quality displayed throughout debut album “Beyond the Beat” Tape (2008), and “Move” (with Vida Sunshyne, 2010) Chasm proves himself once more as a consummate composer.

Joined by local and international artists; “This Is How We Never Die” features USA underground vocal heavyweights AG (Showbiz & AG), Guilty Simpson (Stones Throw), Vast Aire (Def Jux), Fashawn (One), New Zealand’s David Dallas, and Blak Twang (UK). Not to mention an assortment of Australia’s top lyricists including Solo, Hau (Koolism), Lazy Grey, Mdusu, Delta, Dialectrix and Brad Strut.

http://grindin.net/news/?page_id=2435

-----

3) Chasm is a technical death metal band from Glasgow, Scotland .

Chasm were formed in Glasgow in October 2008. The 5 members come from a varied musical background, bound together by a mutual love of metal. The band’s first EP will be recorded in March/April 2009 and then they will embark on their first UK tour in August.

Check out their MySpace profile fore more up to date information, photos, music and more: www.myspace.com/chasmuk

-----

4) Robert Hampson a.k.a. Main pseudonym for broken beats, with recordings on Fatcat Records and others.

-----

5) Chasm, or Chasm (nz), is an Experimental/Progressive Metal band from Christchurch, New Zealand.

Beginning as a 2 piece experimental side-project in 2007, Chasm took full form during early 2009 with the addition of Andy taking the band and its sound much further than before with new atmospheres and compositional ideas. Shortly after Kaine joined, bringing his unique bass playing into the mix. Rehearsals were productive from early on, but the band still needed a vocalist to complete the line-up. In late 2009 Steve joined the band on vocals, bringing power and aggression as well as melody and conceptually abstract yet thought provoking lyrics.

For official Chasm Myspace visit: 
http://www.myspace.com/chasmnz
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chasm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.