The brainchild of original The Virus vocalist Mike Virus, Cheap Sex formed in 2002, forged out of a need for real, socially aware street punk in Southern California. Proof of this need came in the form of a massive response from the fans, resulting in the bands almost instantaneous ability to pack venues just on word of mouth without so much as a demo available. New Yorks premier punk label seemed the perfect match for Cheap Sex and the band wasted no time in getting in the studio to record their debut album "Launch off to War" which was released on Punk Core in July 2003. Aggressively supporting their debut album, the band hit the road for their first self-headlining tour as well as several festival appearances including the Wasted festival in Morecambe England, Viva le Punk at CBGBs and British Invasion where they shared stages with some of the biggest acts of yesterday and today including The Anti-Nowhere League, Slaughter and The Dogs, Lower Class Brats, English Dogs, The Feederz, Agent Orange, Defiance, The Icons of Filth and many more. 

Their First tour was cut short by a terrible accident involving their tour van and a truck full of cinderblocks, resulting in their guitar player John being flown to a Pennsylvania area hospital for immediate open heart surgery which saved his life. Refusing to bow to adversity, the band returned home and after a short break began recording their second full-length album entitled Headed for a Breakdown. Released on Punk Core in late 2004, Headed for a Breakdown established the band as an institution and showcased the talent and diverse songwriting ability that has earned them their status as the leaders of the pack. Over the next year Cheap Sex would continue to gig while writing the fourteen songs that comprise their third album Written in Blood, released on Punk Core in June 2006. With the same unique mix of hardcore punk and socially-pertinent lyrics that made Cheap Sex a punk rock household name, Written in Blood unleashes the bands most aggressive and uncompromising material to date.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cheap+Sex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.