There are several artists and groups named Checkmate
(For the standalone article for K-pop group CHECKMATE please go here:체크메이트):

1.) CHECKMATE (Hangul: 체크메이트)  is a South Korean co-ed group under GRACE COMPANY Entertainment. The group consist of 4 members: Sieun, Suri, Yongseok, and Noah. They debuted on September 21, 2020 with the single DRUM as a 5 member group that had Nason as part of the lineup. Nason left the group in November 2020 and was replaced by Haechang. Shortly after, Haechang also left the group with the GRACE COMPANY announcing that the group will continue with 4 members. 
(This group has a standalone article located here: 체크메이트 where they don't share the page with other artists nor bands.)

2.) Checkmate was a punk band from Caen, Basse Normandie, France. The members were Vlad (vocals), Philippe G (guitar) and Philippe P (drums). They released the singles "7" and "Only Fools Pretend to be Happy" in 1979 and broke up in 1981. The B-side "Week-End Bloody Week-End" also makes an appearance on volume 200 of the Killed by Death compilation series.

3.) An Alternative/Nu Metal band from Tel Aviv, Israel. Checkmate was created in 2010. Their debut Album Separate was released in 2012. The members are Yan Braslavskiy (Vocals), Kiril Khershberg (Drums), Anton Skorohodov (Bass) and Vadim Raitses (Guitar). Former members are Daniel Sherman who played the guitar. 

4.) Checkmate an independent Metal band. Their first album was Immanence. In 2012, they went on a tour and played in France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, Spain, and on the American East Coast (such as New-York, Philadelphia and Boston.) .

5.) Checkmate is a melodic punk band from Minneapolis, Minnesota. The band consists of former members of the group Too Pure To Die

6.) Checkmate is a Christian Ska and Emo band. 

7.) Checkmate is a  Canadian Rapper. They're from Vancouver, Canada. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Checkmate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.