Chemical Assault was born in 2008 in the toxic city of Palmira-Colombia, from insane and addicted to Mosh minds: Jhonatan (pity) on the voice and bass, David (morfor) on guitar and Juan David (anthrax) on drums. This project of thrash has influences from crossover, and it doesn’t exist in this city. Chemical assault was born from a thirst for destruction, annihilation and blasphemy which are represented in devastating and aggressive riffs, demonstrating the hate and contempt towards the church, society , farandulers, posers and betrayers. Influenced by bands of thrash and crossover, we want to generate a unique sound that is gonna infect minds, destroy brains and prolong the scene Thrasher, Mosh till death, The nuclear holocaust will come...

I laugh in the face of those who told me some years ago that thrash is dead and metal goes onward to new things... Well take your words and stick them where the she sun doesn’t shine!

Young kids who denied what they were given by the “metal media” searched on their own for the truth and now they proudly stand against what is so called evolution in metal and I call decline.

Chemical Assault come from Colombia with one single mission: Thrash and Mosh! During the listening of Chemical Assault I felt like I was 16 years old again, banging on my own in my room like I was on drugs or something... That’s the good thrash my friends, better than drugs, alcohol and even sex!

When you listen to Chemical Assault you will understand what I mean. Their music is aggressive, punkish, filled with energy and force. No keyboards, no gay melodies just cut-throating riffs and rhythms that pound your whole body in the style of Vio-lence and old Exodus with sing along refrains. The production is rather raw but suits the record fine.

Another thing that I like about them is that they keep a street thrash image, tight pants, high top sneakers, bullet belts, patches on their sleeveless denim jackets, no inverted crucifixes, no references to satan and pointless bullshit like these...

Chemical Assault at MySpace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chemical+Assault">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.