Emerging triumphant as a creative force in the collective cosmos is CHEMICAL CASCADES, an unrelenting four-pronged assault on the senses. CHEMICAL CASCADES are a refreshingly dark, thought-provocative group on a merciless mission to build an otherworldly audioscape of superior firepower.
 Constructed in 2010 by the demonic presence of Gustaf Davidson and L.Trevarthen on guitars, fronted by omnipotent presence of G. Watson and driven along by the rhythmic pulse of Mykh wulves, CHEMICAL CASCADES are a collection of spirits having human experiences. This allows each member to transcend the boundaries of time and space, inflicting mind-bending soul dissection and hypnotic enlightenment. Of the personal backgrounds of the spiritual flag bearers and how they collated, there is much conjecture and rumour, with mysterious otherworldly answers still to emerge.
 Honouring the rich traditions of old school Scandinavian black/death metal, and inspired by live sonic rituals and experimental musicianship, CHEMICAL CASCADES break the shackles of social confinement and provoke co-conspirators into questioning everything about conventional wisdom.
 The spiritual forces’ collective alchemy has launched a timeless astral plane, channelled forth from within mystical Australian landscapes. CHEMICAL CASCADES is indicative of a new, unpredictable realm of consciousness entering the orifice of mainstream culture worldwide. As the mind and body process thoughts via a range of natural chemical reactions, it’s our soul that propels us on a timeless astral plane. CHEMICAL CASCADES provides the vehicle for the journey, while the desire to travel comes from within. 
 With an ever-growing cult following along the eastern rim of the great southern land, CHEMICAL CASCADES is at the forefront of a new wave of mind-bending artistic theatrics burning an infernal flame.
 For a sense of one’s self to counteract the daily dose of inhumane conformity, wake up and accept the challenge that is CHEMICAL CASCADES. Drop a little CHEMICAL CASCADES and see where it takes you.....
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chemical+Cascades">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.