The idea of a project later called Chemical Exposure came about in summer of 2013. in Slavonski Brod, Croatia.

Bitterness towards local music scene, corrupted minds of the masses and polluted air surrounding their hometown drove young metal forces to come together and do what they do best - metal music. Using fast and complex guitar riffs, heavy drum beats alongside deep unarticulated vocals they point to low social status and fight for survival.

After a few years apart from making music, Obrad (Hrvoje Artukoić, played in Overlord, Necromaniac, Kult Perunov) made up his mind to create someting that has been long extinct in these areas - thrash death metal. He brought this idea to his good friend Pile (Filip Krišto, played in Fuel, Wishbone) and together they contacted some friends from a band called Nekrist, Goca (Goran Ivaknović), Doka (Robert Dokić) and Trca (Trpimir Artuković), who all gladly came aboard. The listed three worked together on many local projects, some of which are Nekrist, Scattered Entrails, Necromaniac, Kult Perunov, Slavogorje, Overlord and others. At this time they put Nekrist on hold to completely devote themselves in ressurecting thrash metal from the ashes in Slavonski Brod.

Finally, the band was complete with Pile and Obrad playing guitars, Goca on drums, Doka on Bass and Trca on vocals. Things were complicated at first because of the lack of rehersal space but eventually that's been taken care of.

In winter of 2014. Trca leaves the band due to family commitments and Janka (Ivan Janković) takes his place. He also leaves short after and moves to Ireland in pursuit of better life standards. The band was left with no vocals while the album recording has already gone underway. Pile leaves the band in spring of 2015. and moves to a new workplace in Split so his position was replaced by Šime (Davor Šimunović, played in Reinkaos, Bad Taste, Tormentorium). Soon after the vocal position was filled by Tomo (Tomislav Debelić, played in Reinkaos, Voidhammer).

All listed band members played numerous gigs and tours in their own projects but the band as it was at this time didn't had their first gig until autumn of 2015, opening for Finnish metal band called Amanita Virosa in Exit club, Osijek.

In winter of 2015. Doka leaves the band and moves to Rijeka. His position was soon replaced by Sin (Dominik Đamić, played in Frekvencija, Mad in Chains).

Chemical Exposure finally gets a complete lineup, Tomo on vocals, Goca on drums, Šime on guitars, Sin on bass and Obrad on guitars and vocals. In autumn of 2016 they released their first full length album called "Sick Mutant Society" which was recorded, mixed and mastered in studio  Armageddon in Osijek. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chemical+Exposure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.