Chiddy Bang is an alternative hip hop duo from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania consisting of Chidera "Chiddy" Anamege, and Noah "Xaphoon Jones" Beresin. The pair shot to international prominence in 2010 with the release of their major-label debut single opposite of adults which peaked within the Top 20 on various singles charts worldwide including the UK, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand and Belgium.

Chiddy Bang formed when Anamege and Beresin met at Drexel University in 2008. After months of support from underground music blogs, the pair released their debut mixtape The Swelly Express via blog Pretty Much Amazing. The release was met with widespread acclaim and led to the group signing a recording contract with EMI in January 2010.

Their first commercial single on the label taken from their The Swelly Express mixtape, Opposite of Adults, samples the Brooklyn group MGMT's 'Kids' and was released on February 21, 2010 in the UK. It reached number 12 on the UK Singles Chart and later peaked at 90 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the US. A second single from the mixtape titled Truth was released in the UK and peaked at number 50. Following this success, Chiddy Bang released a second mixtape exclusively within the UK featuring remixes and adaptations of popular British artists including tinie tempah, ellie goulding and kate nash. 

In October 2010 the pair released Chiddy Bang: The Preview - an EP consisting of previous singles and new material - serving as a prelude to their debut album scheduled for release in Spring 2011.

The Mind Your Manners Songfacts states that Chidera "Chiddy" Anamege broke the world record for the longest freestyle on April 28, 2011. His freestyle lasted 9 hours, 18 minutes, and 22 seconds, supported by looped beats played by Xaphoon, beating the previous longest time by three minutes.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chiddy+Bang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.