Chikinki are an Electro-pop band from Bristol, United Kingdom. The band formed at Hiatt Baker Hall at the University of Bristol in 1996/7. Originally there were six members: Rupert (vocals), Ed (rhythm guitar), Steve (drums), Boris (keyboards), Luke (lead guitar) and Trevor (saxophone). They were briefly joined by a 7th member, a bass player, but the experiment did not last. After gigging regulary around many of Bristols pubs and clubs the band turned professional after the members had completed their degrees, however, Luke decided to leave and the band was reduced to a five piece.

They were signed by local label sink and stove records though this was short-lived and the band joined Island Records though ultimately they were dropped and are currently with Kitty-Yo records. This European label has helped them break further into Europe where they were already popular and much of their earlier catalogue has now been re-released on this label.

The band are now set to release new material on their own Urban Cow label, home of their first EP Telephone Heroes.

Contrary to their current style, the band played more funk than anything else early on though gradually moved towards a more popular style and eventually went over to a more electronic / pop sound that they maintain today. After the loss of Luke, Trevor ultimately became a second keyboard/ sequencer player and this leads to the band's unique sound. Since they have no bass player, and Ed has taken over as the lead guitarist, the two keyboards provide a combination of melody and rhythm sections. Furthermore, the band has a strong sense of musical structure (both Trevor and Boris obtained their degrees in Music) and all five members are song writers.

On stage they are dramatic, Rupert especially is prone to leaving the stage and performing from amongst the audience, and all are at their peak when launching into something akin to a group 'solo'.

'You Said' will be released on Urban Cow on May 8th 2006,. This will be backed with 'Nasty Side' and will be limited edition only. The band will be touring around the UK to support this. Check their site for details.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chikinki">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.