Ambitious from the start, Child Of Stone have always been original if nothing else. Flying in the face of the heavily skate punk influenced Central Coast music scene, they have always sought to take their music to new heights and in doing so, encourage their audience to sink to all time lows. They are the anti-band. At times hard to categorise, the three-piece outfit takes catchy hooks and pop-sounding vocal ideas and desecrate them with bullet riffs, power grove drumming and disgraceful, potty-mouthed lyrics.

Drawing inspiration from life in their own small world, Child Of Stone tend to steer clear of political issues and instead pen their music about pornography, women, alcohol and generally promoting anti-social behaviour. We really do love the ladies. A lot of people think that we are misogynistic women haters, with no respect for anything, but youve just got to listen to us with a sense of humour.

Their intelligent song structures allow the band to showcase a lot of tempo changes, as well as create a lot of different feelings and moods, in fairly short songs. The diversity of their music can easily hold the attention of A.D.D sufferers through their entire set.

Formed in 1999, high school buddies Andrew Smith (guitars/vocals) and Matt Ranzetta (bass) had fired enough drummers to rival Spinal Tap, before finding Mitch Johnston at the beginning of 2004. Much of the bands earlier music was scrapped and the trio surged forward with a newfound passion for song writing and an almost telepathic sense of direction. To date, the band have played several local gigs with a range of local acts, and feel comfortable in front of death metal, hardcore, punk and alternative audiences. We, hopefully, have something to offer everyone. I mean dudes who listen to a lot of Metal still have ears for punk, or funk or whatever... and vice versa. So we try to find the middle ground. Plus theres no denying the obvious sexual energy... and thats beautiful and infectious... and its very entertaining!

Child Of Stone recorded a five track demo in November (2004). With 2004 seeing them take their music to the stage, the band has played with local and touring acts such as Frankenbok, Mischling, Japunga, Sulo, Rather Be Dead, Aeturnus Dominion, Schlauncher, Shiver, Slowly Building Weapons, Shadowmill, Monster Gale, Mirror Sessions, Menagerie, Dead Poets, My Anguish, Foolproof, Gener8r, Black Asylum, Finite, Jinn, Osmium Grid, Coma Lies, Crab Smasher, Naked On The Vague, Chambers of Insanity, Akuma, Monkey Trauma Centre and Precipice as well as playing at Festivals such as Metalstock 2005 and The GOATS Festival 2005. Currently, the band looks forward to establishing a fan base in Sydney and Newcastle.

With their original songs, as well as a few musical interludes peppered throughout the set, Child Of Stone ease through fast paced, energetic verses, ferociously catchy choruses and bouncing, stomping bridges all with a touch of humour and an overpowering sense of grandeur! And whilst their lyrics will probably never be studied the way Bob Dylans folk poems have been, their music can be appreciated by the technically trained shredders and general music fans alike.

Ladies and Gentlemen, we apologise for the fact that we can no longer protect you from the rampant and savage, Child Of Stone. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Child+Of+Stone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.