There are several bands called Chimera:

1) The oldest is a UK Acid Folk/Baroque Psychedelia group which recorded a self-titled album in 1969-70. 
Chimera were formed in the late 1960's by West Country girls Francesca Garnett and Lisa Bankoff.
The line up of musicians supporting the girls often changed and among them featured artists such as Mal Luker (the Smoke), Bob Weston (Fleetwood Mac), Nick Mason/Rick Wright (the Pink Floyd) and Wil Malone (Orange Bicycle & later arranger for The Verve, Simple Minds, Massive Attack etc).

Chimera were signed to Morgan Bluetown records and as so often happens with record labels they stalled on releases (actually they didn't release anything), this led to members of the band becoming disheartened with what should have been a straightforward fairly successful project, without an impending release several musicians saw little future in Chimera and they disbanded leaving an array of classic late 60's progressive, acid-folk songs unreleased.
Nick Mason from Pink Floyd was producer for the band and subtle similarities can be heard on Pink Floyd's later album "Dark Side Of The Moon", *especially the guitar work on Peru.
In 2002, 32 years after recording, the album "Chimera" was remastered and finally released on a Tenth Planet label.

"Legendary lost masterpiece of late 60s acid folk/baroque psychedelia, the unreleased 1969 album by Chimera – featuring future Fleetwood Mac guitarist Bob Weston – was partly produced by Pink Floyd drummer Nick Mason who, like Rick Wright, makes a cameo appearance. First released a couple of years ago in vinyl-only format, this first-ever CD issue adds an extra eight previously-unheard pre-album demos to come up with the definitive Chimera anthology." -- time-has-told-me.blogspot.com

2) Chimera is a folk/prog group from the Netherlands who released two records, "Des Duivels Oorkussen" & "Obstakels". Both were released on the Stoof label in 1980, and have never been reissued. Highly collectable, and a very good listen.

3) Chimera are a band from Belfast, Northern Ireland. Formed in 1990 the Band revolved around the extraordinary voice of Eileen Henry. Sounding like a cross between Cocteau Twins and Cranberries this band should have gone on to be as big as either of these bands. Other band members included Steven Emerson on bass, Willie Vincent on drums, and Ted Laverty on guitars. The album "Lughnasa" (the Celtic God of Harvests) was released in 1993 and had two spin off singles - "Ellis Bleeds" and "Cyan Daze".

The band supported many stalwarts of the alternative scene at the time including My Bloody Valentine, Pixies and Throwing Muses. Had the band signed to 4ad, things might have been very different. The band released a 2nd album "Earth Loop", which had a lighter sound than "Lughnasa", and Eileens vocals slightly more reined in.

4) Chimera are a contemporary pop/rock/alternative band from Žilina, Slovakia. The band was founded in 2004 and since released a self-titled EP in 2006. Its first album "Paralelné svety" was released in late 2009 on the EMI / Monitor label.

5) Chimera is incorrect tag of mid-90's experimental hardcore/post-punk/noise-rock band Химера from St.Petersburg, Russia.
Please correct your tags.
http://digitalmeltd0wn.blogspot.com/2008/07/hello-everyone.html

6) Chimera is also the artist otherwise known as Mike Dred or The Kosmik Kommando from the Aphex Twin's record label Rephlex. Has had a long career in the acid and techno scene from the very early 90s until current.

7)  Female fronted band from Newcastle, Australia.
https://chimeraera.bandcamp.com/album/ahhhhhh

8) Polish Heavy/Black Metal band from Warsaw, Poland formed in 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chimera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.