The members of the Danish trio CHINAH have connected across three very different musical backgrounds. And together they have reached something new for all of them: Blue-tinted electronic pop music with delicate melodies, laidback vocals and sincere lyrics. Just listen to their first single ' Away From Me'.

Being the daughter of a banjo player, singer Fine Glindvad grew up travelling around Europe among folk musicians. The guitarist, Simon Kjær Lauridsen, comes from the twisted-minded indie and free jazz environments. And the man behind the synths, Simon Lars Gustav Andersson, is a classically trained pianist. It sounds like an impossible combination, and not as a trio creating some of most captivating Danish pop music here and now.

Nevertheless, this is the case. On their very first single, 'Away From Me', CHINAH underline why they have stirred curiosity both home and abroad. 'Away From Me' is also the track that made the three members realize that together, they could accomplish something special.

- We have all been through a process of moving towards electronic pop and r&b from each our starting points. Being shamelessly melodic is not always well regarded where we come from, but we have been urging to play around with exactly that. So it has been very liberating for us. Still, we cannot avoid having our own edge because of our backgrounds, says Simon Lars Gustav Andersson.

These dynamics clearly shine through in 'Away From Me'. Fine Glindvad’s laidback vocal carries the track while beats and instruments build up to a climax that deliberately never arrives. CHINAH’s sense of economizing chaos finds its inspiration from various sources: Blood Orange’s courage to chase big tunes, Jai Paul’s aesthetic anarchy and James Blake clean vocals.

Every song on the EP CHINAH releases in the fall explores and elaborates this style. Another theme running through tracks like 'Never the Same', 'We Go Back' and 'You Can Walk Away From Me' is Fine Glindvad’s non-romantic poetry smoldering beneath the delicate melodies.

- The lyrics are sung from the perspective naive submission. But it feels liberating because of the light melodies. It is a path towards acceptance: ‘I can lie here and bleed for you, but that is life.’ It is almost a tribute to laying yourself down. I am forever touched by statements of eerily sincerity. That is also why I do not use much imagery. I say it just as it is, says Fine Glindvad.

These themes also hint the fragileness of the band name, CHINAH.

Throughout the spring, CHINAH has toured with acclaimed Danish band Turboweekend and played at the important Danish SPOT Festival. Following SPOT, CHINAH was named among the best new acts by both Danish music magazine Soundvenue and international festival delegates. This autumn another single and an EP will follow. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chinah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.