There are more than 1 Artist with this Name:

1. China White is a punk rock band from Huntington Beach, California, famous for their album Danger Zone and their violent gigs. They were, along with TSOL, the most proeminent figures of Orange County punk.

2. China White was a Old Skool Rave outfit from the UK consisting of C. Kimbell, Damian Stephens & Simon Atkinson. The Group we're part of the old skool hardcore/jungle rave scene. They had vinyl releases as early as 1991/1992. Popular Tracks including 'High & Dry' which was a track included on the Compilation 'Illegal Pirate Radio' which was a compilation released be Strictly Underground/Strictly Hardcore Records.

3. China White  first came together in 1985 from various places in the Rockingham and Guilford county areas of North Carolina. The band would be formed by vocalist Danny Hazlip, guitar duo J.K. Wilkins and Anthony Fincher, bassist Matt DeRemer and drummer Bubba Davenport.  Like most groups, CHINA WHITE would begin as a cover band playing several of the hard rock and heavy metal standards by all the usual suspects. This would be par for the course if a band wanted to get gigs in most clubs. CHINA WHITE would play up and down the East Coast club circuit. Eventually growing tired of playing the songs of other bands, they began to compose their own material. This could not have been timed any better as the regional live music scene was beginning to become more accommodating to original bands. These songs would be shuffled into their sets eventually taking the place of any cover songs.

As CHINA WHITE’s popularity began to grow the band began to pick up opening slots for a variety of national touring acts such as 38 Special, The Marshall Tucker Band, Kix, Nantucket, Saraya, Hurricane, Masi, The Byrds, Head East and others. They would also headline many shows that gave a stage to showcase up and coming bands from the area. Although CHINA WHITE’s run would be brief and only see one self-released 6-song EP called “Eye for An Eye” in 1989. The cassette-only release sold very well leading to several additional re-stocks. But Inevitable CHINA WHITE would begin to run into all the similar and all too familiar issues that most bands did going into the next decade. As the 1990s began to roll along and heavy metal started to fall out of fashion CHINA WHITE would end. Hazlip would try to recreate the band and even record with a different line-up but this would not be the same band or direction and the material would not be released. Eventually, the name would fade into obscurity and be only a footnote in the history of North Carolina hard rock and heavy metal. But to those that had heard the band, seen them live or got to work with them, the name CHINA WHITE would be fondly remembered and well respected. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/China+White">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.