Chiodos was an American post-hardcore band from Davison, Michigan, formed in 2001. Originally known as "The Chiodos Bros." the band's name was a tribute to filmmakers Stephen, Charles, and Edward Chiodo, responsible for the movie Killer Klowns from Outer Space. Their second full length album, Bone Palace Ballet, was released in North America on September 4, 2007 and debuted at number 5 on the Billboard 200 and number 1 on Top Independent Albums. Warner Bros. Records released Bone Palace Ballet on January 26, 2009, as part of a new distribution deal in the UK.

Chiodos was formed at the Flint Local 432, a small venue in downtown Flint, Michigan and Olde Jamestowne Hall in Saginaw, Michigan. The band is known for their on-stage performances which include controlled, high-pitched vocals from former lead singer, Craig Owens. Craig Owens has cited lead singer of Faith No More, Mr. Bungle, etc. fame, Mike Patton as one of his greatest influences saying, "I only wish I could be as good as him."

Their debut album, All's Well That Ends Well (Equal Vision Records) was released on July 26, 2005. It reached #3 on the Billboard Top Heatseekers chart and #164 on the Billboard Top 200 chart. While their sophomore album, Bone Palace Ballet reached the number 5 spot on the Billboard 200. The band's albums and live performances have garnered praise from press outlets.

Chiodos headlined some shows on their own before joining Alternative Press's 2006 "Invisible Sideshow" tour, headlined by Armor for Sleep. Following that tour, they supported Matchbook Romance on the Sub City "Take Action" tour in Spring 2006. That summer, they toured with Fear Before the March of Flames, as well as appearing on the Warped Tour.In fall 2006, Chiodos appeared on Atreyu's World Championship Tour, alongside From First to Last and Every Time I Die, as well as 3 and 36 Crazyfists.

Chiodos has had several scuffs with those in the music industry, most notably Steven Smith of Steven's Untitled Rock Show, Andy Williams of Every Time I Die, and HORSE The Band.

In 2005, Chiodos independently made a video for the song "All Nereids Beware." The video consists of the band playing the rare pre-All's Well That Ends Well version of the song in a parking lot.

In 2006, Chiodos made videos for "One Day Women Will All Become Monsters" and "Baby, You Wouldn't Last a Minute on the Creek". The "Baby, You Wouldn't Last a Minute on the Creek" video was included on the 2006 re-issue of All's Well That Ends Well, which added a DVD and three acoustic tracks to the 2005 release.

A video for "Lexington (Joey Pea-Pot With A Monkey Face)" was made which premiered world wide on April 2, 2008 on the social network MySpace. This was the first single of their sophomore album, "Bone Palace Ballet". Chiodos' drummer, Derrick Frost has stated in an interview that the band was disappointed in the final result of the music video, saying 

"Well, usually there are different people who throw out ideas and we go through them and add in our own suggestions but that video definitely didn’t turn out like we wanted it to turn out, like at all. We’re pretty disappointed with it. We never get a video where we’re all like “This is amazing!” And that’s what every band wants, to have an amazing video because that can push your career and your band so far. And we haven’t gotten that yet so it’s kind of frustrating. It’s just like so much money that we spent on this for no reason. No one’s going to play it; it’s not getting played at all."

On September 16, 2008, Chiodos teamed up with acclaimed director Darren Doane and The Crofoot Ballroom to shoot a video for "The Undertaker's Thirst For Revenge Is Unquenchable (The Final Battle)" in downtown Pontiac, MI. The video was released on December 20, 2008.

On September 24, 2010, it was announced that Craig Owens was no longer the singer of Chiodos.

On February 8, 2010, Brandon Bolmer (Yesterdays Rising) was confirmed as the new lead singer for Chiodos; he performed vocals on the band's third studio album, Illuminaudio.

Craig Owens later returned for the band's fourth studio album, Devil, but Chiodos disbanded before recording any more material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chiodos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.