There is more than one artist with this name: 

1.) CHOICE – Irish post-punk/electronic band from Dundalk, Ireland 1980-1982

2.)  Choice was an American R&B girl group, consisting of Chrissy Conway, Sharon Flanagan, and Alecia Moore, who is now professionally known as P!nk. Choice was signed by L.A. Reid to LaFace Records in 1995, and spent 2 years recording an album for the label. After poor reception during their showcase at a LaFace Records party, Reid decided to shelve their project. “Key To My Heart,” which was released on the Kazaam movie soundtrack in 1996, remains the only track to be released from the group. They disbanded in 1998, and P!nk went on to launch a successful solo career. Conway went on to join Christian-pop group ZOEgirl.

3.) Choice is the shared pseudonym of Laurent Garnier, Shazz, and Ludovic Navarre under which they released the acid classic, Acid Eiffel (1993).

4.) Texan female rapper Choice debuted on Rap-A-Lot Records in 1989. She was featured on Willie D's album bragging about her pussy that was "the size of Bolivia". Her stint on Willie's album paved the way for her now infamous debut, "The Big Payback". Rap audiences were left speechless when Choice dared to diss all of the big male rap acts of the time (NWA, Geto Boys, Too Short) on her debut single "Payback". Whether she was calling them ugly or questioning their sexuality, Choice let these men know she was not to be messed with! As for the rest of the album, Choice took the time to tackle serious issues plaguing the female African American youth at the time: small dick boyfriends, premature ejaculation, masturbation, and cunninlingus.

In 1992 Choice released her sophomore effort, "Stick-N-Moove". This album would set the standards for raunchy female rappers for the years to come. Choice took things to the other level with such sexually charged tracks like "Tales From The Sexside" and "One Just Ain't Enough". Choice, the finest woman living in Texas, once again didn't censor herself. Her songs about gang bangs, anal sex, and raping her man with a dildo, left listeners in awe. No other woman in rap had ever taken things to such an extreme. Of course, in her quest to be multi-dimensional, Choice took the time to explore topics that didn't have to do with just her sexual escapades. "HIV Positive" was the album's first single and served as a sort of public awareness for HIV dilemma occurring in the country. "Storybook Ho's" saw Choice breaking down the gritty truth of life in the ghetto using famous cartoon/fairytale characters. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Choice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.