Members:
Steven Evans - Voice
Dale Garrity - Guitar
Mike Hames - Bass
Bret Smith - Drums

Sometime in July of 2003, ChoiceFatal rose up from the sun-drenched soil of eastern Washington state to form a completely new style of heavy metal music. All four CF members are battle hardened musicians that are not afraid to play music that is heavy yet melodic, aggressive yet laden with a funk inspired groove.

Influenced heavily by everything from Pantera to the Chili Peppers and Sevendust to Sabbath, CFs set is a balance of power and control. Assailing fans with heavy guitar riffs, dynamic vocals, and an intense groove from the bass and drums, live shows are an onslaught of energy and confidence. Frontman Steven Evans begins CF shows by challenging the audience to get their asses to the front of the stage and proceeds to keep them there, captivated by the sheer spectacle of it all. From beginning to end, CF inspires feisty mosh pits and frenzies of flesh that always impress. Bassist Mike Hames never fails to please with his galvanizing style of funky metal. While he helps set the musical groove, Mike is pure energy as his fingers fade into a blur of light. Guitarist Dale Garrity deftly maneuvers the ear-piercing, overdriven tones of his guitar. His rock-solid riffing is the cornerstone of CFs remarkably tight performances. Drummer Bret Smith jumps into the mix with both feet. Bret holds together the fury and drives the intense musical assault that is ChoiceFatal live.

In November of 2004 ChoiceFatal released their debut CD, In Sight. The CD brings together 10 songs that were already proven to produce savage mosh pits and head banging all around the Northwest. (Check out the live photos on the band’s web site.) In the Summer of 2004, ChoiceFatal entered a contest with KZOK and Bob Rivers in Seattle. The song that was entered is called “Cold,” (off the new CD). The contest drew over 1,000 bands that submitted songs and “Cold” placed 8th. That made it possible for it to be included on a 10 song compilation CD. Other songs from the CD were put into competition on Garageband.com earning numerous awards at the site. Notably, “#3 Best Bass in Metal” out of over 7,000 Metal songs on the site. As well as weekly awards for “Best Beat over all genera’s”, “Best Bass over all genera’s”, and “Best Male Vocals over all genera’s”.

The band is currently playing shows in the Northwest promoting the album In Sight and having a blast. CF has shared the stage with great bands such as Thousand Foot Krutch, Earshot, Manntis, Drown Mary, Point One, XEX, TakeOver, and HateFist to name a few. Visit the music page for a music sample and information on how to purchase the CD. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ChoiceFatal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.