There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Choke is a Canadian Punk rock band.
With original members Jack Jaggard, Clay Shea, Shawn Moncrieff and Stefan Levasseur, Choke has toured non-stop in Canada and the USA.

Choke released their first two albums independently, Lotion in 1995 and Give'er in 1996, which was later released through Smallman Records who signed the band in 1997. Choke released Needless To Say the following year, an album that was chosen by Exclaim magazine as one of the top ten punk albums of the year. 1999 saw the release of Foreward, which charted on both the CMJ (US) and Earshot (Can) radio charts. In 2002, There's A Story To This Moral was released to critical acclaim. Slow Fade Or How I Learned To Question Infinity was recorded in Vancouver, British Columbia with Blair Calibaba (Gob, Propagandhi) and Paul Forgues (Slayer, Nine Inch Nails, Treble Charger), and became the fifth release through Smallman Records. 

Choke has toured with The Ataris, No Use for a Name, Satanic Surfers and Bad Religion, Strung Out and AFI, Good Riddance, My Chemical Romance, Small Brown Bike & Piebald.

On April 3, 2007, the members of Choke announced the end of the band on their official website. They also announced a farewell tour across Canada beginning in May 2007. Band members Shawn Moncrieff and Clay Shea have started a new band Passenger Action with Ryan Podlubny (ex The Fullblast, fordirelifesake) and Allan Harding (ex Thirty Nights of Violence). Jack Jaggard has also started a new experimental indie band Team Building. Stefan Levasseur has not made any comment on his plans.

2) Choke is an Australian hardcore punk band from the Central Coast New South Wales.
Formed early 2013 releasing and selling out a demo tape not much later. Releasing a 7" EP in 2014.
www.facebook.com/chokehc

3) Choke  http://www.myspace.com/chokedub

4) ＣＨＯＫＥ is a Japanese (rap) metal band from Tokyo. The band consists of singer REON, guitarist KVYA NONO, and bassist B5. The band started out in April of 2017. http://choke.tokyo
Use ＣＨＯＫＥ for this band

5) Choke was a Brazilian band formed in 1998. They recorded the demo tape “dicktatorshit Holocaust from Third world”. After some shows over great part of Brazil, they released “Manifest” (2001) a split cd with the band STN, with “Slum Radio” (2003) following.

6) Choke was a band from Albuquerque, NM, existing in the early 90's.  Band members were David Liso (guitar, vocals), Grant Garner (bass), Matt Sneddon (guitar), J.C. Thorne (drum kit, hammond organ)

7) Choke is a producer & beatmaker from Tel Aviv, Israel. He released his self-titled debut album in 2017.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Choke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.