4 bands are named Cholera:

1. Cholera is a deathcore band from Cleveland, Ohio. Signing to Compton Records in early 08, they released an EP called "The Answer To Infection". Now, a few drummers later, Cholera is back in the studio, recording new music for pressing. Johnny Appleseed?

2. Cholera is a five piece grind infused hardcore band from the North East of England. Following a limited cassette release of their debut effort 'Egotism' on Church Of Fuck in 2012, the band will release their first 7", 'Plagiarised Hope', via Church Of Fuck/Holy Ground Records in 2014.

3. Cholera is a Industrial Black Metal/ Dark Ambient band from Finland formed in 2005 and has released a demo in 2005 called Kolkko then later in 2005 released a full length titled Kolkko II - Soundtrack of Oppression. 

4. Cholera is a progressive death metal project hailing from Ottawa, Canada. The band currently consists of Raphael Weinroth-Browne (guitars, drums, vocals, keyboards) and Matthew Buller (bass). Their first album, Enslaved Humanity, was written during late 2007-2008 and recording during mid 2008 at The Gallery Studios in Ottawa, at which time both band members were only 16 years old.

The recently released Enslaved Humanity EP encapsulates the band's diverse and complex sound. It is an onslaught of technical death metal riffing and machine-gun double bass drumming, but simultaneously incorporates middle-eastern melodies, progressive flourishes, and dark string orchestration. The new album's lyrical content illustrates mankind's enslavement to militaristic, capitalist and religious ideologies. It depicts a possible apocalyptic future in which humanity is unable to liberate itself from its chains and succumbs to extinction and ruin.

Armed with a heavy musical and lyrical message, Cholera conceived the Enslaved Humanity EP not only in order to unveil their compositions to a wider audience but also to attract skilled musicians who would enable the band to perform in a live setting. Meanwhile, a full-length album is coming soon...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cholera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.