1) Choronzon are an American black metal band, formed in 1986. They take their name from the demon Choronzon and are up-front about their occult influences. In 1998, they were signed to the Nocturnal Art Productions, owned by Samoth (of Emperor and Zyklon).  Their debut album was ''Magog Agog''. 

Music
The music is based in black metal, and extends to post-black metal and industrial, incorporating both organic sounds and techno-filtration. This band, along with Mysticum from Norway were one of the earliest examples of this mixing of black metal and industrial. The later works tend to be less rock-oriented and more experimental.

Members
P. Emerson Williams: Guitars, Bass, Vocals
Illustrator active in the Goth subculture in the 90's. Worked for Ghastly magazine, Esoterra and Propaganda. P. Emerson Williams is also a member of the Gothic Rock band Veil Of Thorns, subQtaneous, and post Manes project kkoagulaa.

Demimonde Mesila Thraam: Keyboards, electronics, samples, vocals. Ms. Thraam was also a member of IAO Core in the late 1980s. 

CHORONZON: Central Inspirator.  The Namesake, the project's Third Member, is actually not a human being--but rather, a Xenodimensional (In other words, a "demon".) CHORONZON is also credited with producing the cryptovox - or EVT-like effects - that can be heard on many Choronzon tracks.

Voland: Bass, Vocals (Carnage(us))

Past Members:
Jake Stevens: Guitars

Discography
*In My Own Lifeblood I Exult To Float Demo, 1991
*Torn Away Demo, 1992
*Demo 96 Demo, 1996
*Magog Agog Full-length, 1998
*Era Vulgaris Full-length, 2000
*Psychosis Ex Machina Full-length, 2003
*Panic Pandemic (Double Album and Book), 2005
*New World Chaos (Double Album) 2005

External links
choronzon.org
choronzon333.livejournal.com Center of Pestilence, a journal of P. Emerson William's work
mesila333.livejournal.com Elevated Highway, a journal of Demimonde Mesila Thraam's life, metaverse, et cetera.
 Choronzon entry on AMG

2) Chorozon was a death metal band from Jönköping, Sweden. Formed in 1990, released one demo in 1991, then another one 1992, but it never got released. Disbanded afterwards.

Last known line-up:
Peter Byske - Vocals
Juha Sulasalmi - Guitar (Nominon, Dion Fortune)
Marcus Tegnér - Guitar
Robert Ericsson - Bass

1991 - The Hierophant (demo)
1. Truth - The Whole Thing
2. Assumption of the Virgin
3. Child of the Great Transformers
4. That Mankind Never Has Had


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Choronzon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.