Christ Art Museum was formed in 1994, with Scott stepping into the lead vocal role of an existing band called The Damn Nation, which at the time featured Abi Tucker fronting the band, along with guitarist and main song-writer, Leigh Unger. Some material was kept, but re-written by Scott, and then moved forward by putting out a four track demo called "Thinking Man's Death". The band lost bass player Andreas Lanz shortly after, replacing him with Junkmale's Jason Klein. The band played a few gigs around Sydney and then split from drummer Skumpta, replacing him with Syd Green, who until that time had been playing and living overseas with Melbourne five piece, Mantissa (formerley Killing Time). The band headed into Paradise Studio with producer Mick Letho in '95 to crank out a self funded five track EP called "Riftwood", which was then used to establish the band's identity over the following years of touring. Original bass player Andreas Lanz rejoined the band in '97, and together in the new/old lineup, played with the likes of Horsehead, Testeagles, Front End Loader, Nitocris, Primary, Superheist, and internationals Creed, and The Deftones. The band headed back into the studio in '99 to put together a three track single with title track "New Boy" (which was accompanied by a video clip) and "Coalface", plus a remix of "Apple Core" from the first EP. Andreas then left again to play with Lime, featuring Cath Synnerdahl and Dave Reynolds from Mother Hubbard (and further back from Wrecking Crew) and Dave Peck from Mudeye on drums (now, of course, on guitar in Bob Sledge), replaced by Martin Carr from Scott and Syd's other band at the time, Guilding the Lily. Martin Carr and Geoff Marx in that band were originally from a Sydny outfit called Wolfgang, who went on to form Magnus with vocalist Grant Byrnes, who as a trio made up the acoustic natured five piece, Guilding the Lily with Scott and Syd. Christ Art Museum broke up in '99, with Syd going on to play drums, percusion and guitar in iOTA (formerley of Loose Goose and Thong), Scott forming Bob Sledge with ex Stone Creek drummer and bassist, Jim Dakis and Cameron Dunn, plus as mentioned above Dave Peck from Mudeye and Lime. Martin went on to form the Reverend B.Stone with Grant and Geoff from Guilding the Lily, while Leigh now owns and runs a thriving guitar tuition business in Campbelltown called The Academy of Guitar.

Source:www.redlinefilms.com/aots/bob_sledge/audio/bands/cam.html <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Christ+Art+Museum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.