Christiane F. aka Christiana is a former heroin addict famous for her contribution to the autobiographical book "Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo", and the film based on the book, which describes her struggle with various forms of drug addiction during her teens.

Popularized by David Bowie soundtrack Christiane F. "Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo" and his appearances as part of the movie.

Well known through her friendly relations with several important participants of early 80's German underground culture scene. In 1982 thank to them, Christiana recorded "Final Church" maxi-single with Alexander Hacke and F.M. Einheit of Borsig, which been released on Klaus Maeck's own SUPERMAX lable. Later in 1983, she appears in Klaus Maeck's legendary movie "Decoder", as well as F.M. Einheit and many more, such: Genesis P-Orridge, William S. Burroughs, etc. Also, in 1981 due her close relations with Alexander Hacke been involved in few live performances of his early project Sentimentale Jugend: during the shows Hacke was doing programming and vocals, stuff and sometimes chaotic metal percussion on background was provided by F.M. Einheit, and Christiane was responded for unskillful bass lines.


Christiane (Vera Christiane Felscherinow) was born on 20 May 1962 in Hamburg, but her family moved to West Berlin when she was a child. They settled in Gropiusstadt, a dreary neighborhood in Neukölln consisting mainly of high-rise concrete apartment blocks where social problems were prevalent. Christiane's father frequently had a violent temper, drank heavily and raged at his family, and her parents eventually divorced. When she was 12 years old, she began smoking hashish with a group of friends who were slightly older, at a local youth club. They gradually began experimenting with stronger drugs, such as LSD and various forms of pills, and she ended up trying heroin. By the time she was 14, she was a junkie and prostitute, mainly at the then-largest train station of West Berlin, Bahnhof Zoo. Here she became part of a notorious group of teen aged drug-users and prostitutes (of both sexes).

Two journalists from the news magazine "Stern", Kai Herrmann and Horst Rieck, met Christiane in 1978 in Berlin when she was a witness in a trial against a man who paid underaged girls with heroin in return for sex. The journalists wanted to disclose the drug problem among teenagers in Berlin, which was severe but also surrounded by strong taboos. They arranged a two-hour interview with Christiane. The two hours ended up being two months, where Christiane provided an in-depth description of a life with drugs and prostitution that she and other teenagers in West Berlin experienced in the 1970s. The journalists subsequently ran a series of articles about her addiction in "Stern", based on tape recorded interviews with Christiane.

The interviews were extensive, and the "Stern" publishing house eventually decided to publish the successful book "Christiane F. - Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo" in 1979. The book chronicles her life from 1975 to 1978, when she was aged 12-15. The narrative of the book is in the first person, from Christiane's viewpoint, but was written by the journalists functioning as ghostwriters. Others, such as Christiane's mother, and various people who witnessed the escalating drug situation in Berlin at the time, also contributed to the book. It depicts several of Christiane's friends along with other drug addicts, as well as scenes from typical locations of the drug scene in Berlin.

In 1981, the story was made into a film directed by Uli Edel and produced by Bernd Eichinger and Hans Weth. Its title in Germany was "Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo", and in English-speaking countries "Christiane F." The screenplay was written by Herman Weigel. Christiane worked as an advisor for the film, but did not appear in it herself. Much of the movie is shot in the authentic gloomy surroundings of Gropiusstadt and Bahnhof Zoo. David Bowie, Christiane's favorite singer at the time of the story, appears as himself in a concert. Bowie also provided the music in the movie, released on the 1981 soundtrack album Christiane F.

After the initial success of the book and the film, Christiane found herself becoming something of a celebrity, both in Germany and other countries in Western Europe. A subculture of teenage girls in Germany began to emulate her style of dress as well as making visits to the Bahnhof Zoo station, which became an unlikely tourist attraction. This surprised experts on youth drug abuse, who feared that despite the film's bleakness and the many sordid scenes (particularly those portraying the horrific realities of cold turkey), vulnerable youths may have regarded Christiane as a cult heroine and role model. The book sold so well (it was translated into most major West European languages) that Christiane remains able to support herself from the royalties.

She lived in the US and in Greece, before returning to Germany in 1993. Through adulthood, Christiane has continued to struggle with drug addiction on several occasions. In 1994, she enrolled in a methadone program, a treatment she has subsequently returned to several times. At some point, she spent time in prison for drug-related offenses. She lived with her son (born 1996) in an apartment in Teltow. However, in 2008, she moved to Amsterdam with her son and reportedly fell back into drug abuse. As a consequence she has temporarily lost custody of her son, who was taken from her by the authorities during a visit in Berlin in August 2008.  Christiane still receives fan-mail and is occasionally contacted by the German media, wanting to know how she is doing after all these years. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Christiane+F.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.