There is more than one artist with the name Chris White:
1) an English jazz/rock saxophonist who toured with Dire Straits from 1985–1995
2) the former bass guitarist and songwriter for the 60s British Invasion band The Zombies
3) an Austrian musician who makes "commercial music" with German texts
4) a British film composer based in London who writes, arranges, and conducts musical scores for films

1) Chris while (born in Bristol on 13 July 1955) is an English jazz/rock saxophonist who toured with Dire Straits from 1985–1995. he took up the saxophone at the age of 13 and started gigging a couple of years later. Soon he started playing in the UK's National Youth Jazz Orchestra and touring with other musicians (such as France Gall). He joined Dire Straits in 1985 for their two final world tours, and played at both the legendary Live Aid concert and Nelson Mandela's 70th Birthday Concert in 1988. In May 1990 he joined The Notting Hillbillies and one year later, released his first solo album, Shadowdance. An motorcycle accident in 1993 prevented him from touring with Pink Floyd. In 2007 he played with Tom Jones and Bryan Ferry at the Concert for Diana in Wembley Stadium.

2) Chris White (born Christopher Taylor White, 7 March 1943) is the former bass guitarist and songwriter for the 60s British Invasion band The Zombies. Although born in Barnet, Hertfordshire, he was brought up in Markyate where his parents owned a village shop. He replaced the band's initial bassist, Paul Arnold. White was one of the Zombies' two main songwriters, alongside Rod Argent, and penned two tracks on their USA debut LP, The Zombies released in January 1965. On the UK debut release, Begin Here, he had four tracks, one co-written with Argent. For the Zombies' performances in the 1965 film Bunny Lake Is Missing, White wrote "Nothing's Changed" and "Remember You". He also wrote seven of the twelve songs on the group's final album and generally acknowledged masterpiece, Odessey and Oracle, with Argent contributing the remainder. White, though not the band's main vocalist, contributed lead vocals to "Butcher's Tale (Western Front 1914)" and sang a verse of "Brief Candles". Following the demise of The Zombies, White contributed songwriting and production work to Colin Blunstone's solo career and Rod Argent's new band, Argent. He is credited for writing their hit "Hold Your Head Up." In a later role as a record company A&R man, he was instrumental in discovering the band Dire Straits. In 2007, as part of the group White Circle, he co-wrote, co-produced and performed on the album The Key. Key members of White Circle are Chris White, Matthew White, Vivienne Boucherat, and Bianca Kinane.

3) Chris White (born Christian Maria Benedikt Paul Koos von Levai on 16 June 1961 in Vienna, Austria) is an Austrian musician who makes "commercial music" with German texts.

4) Chris White (born Chris J White) is a British film composer based in London who writes, arranges, and conducts musical scores for films He is a saxophonist . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chris+White">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.