Christina Carter (born in Houston, Texas, in November 1968) is an American musician and co-founder of Charalambides in December 1991. 

Carter is known for her extended improvisational guitar passages within and without song-medley structures; and for re-contextualizing certain Charalambides songs within the spare single guitar/voice form. In addition to performing extensively in the US, UK and Europe as a solo artist, Carter has played and recorded in various groups and duos with Black Forest/Black Sea, Maria Chavez (as Weird Cookie), Loren Connors, Chris Corsano, Dredd Foole, Paul Flaherty, Gown (as The Bastard Wing), Shawn David McMillen, and Thurston Moore. She is also a permanent member of Babes On The Loose, Hot Assphalt, Scorces (with Heather Leigh Murray), Scorpiio Flower, Soft Hair, and Space(space)Child (a Spirit tribute band with Jessi Leigh Swenson).

Concurrent with her work as a musician, Carter has expanded her involvement in writing and visual art. Her poetry has been published by Digitalis Industries, The Ecstatic Peace Poetry Journal, Glass Eye, and Slow Toe Press. In 2007, her art piece Forever 21 appeared at Salon Mijangos in San Antonio, Texas as part of a concert/exhibit featuring Tom Carter, Warmer Milks, and Tetuzi Akiyama. Forever 21 was a labor of love and destruction- six of her handwritten diaries cut up painstakingly with scissors into miniscule pieces, which then filled a medium size yellow plastic shopping bag.

Carter currently resides in Austin, Texas. Her albums include the double album reissue "Lace Heart" (Root Strata) and the solo CDRs Seals, and Coupled (Many Breaths). Her album Of The Gutter, and Trickster CDRs (Many Breaths) was released in 2010. Also in 2010 she reissued the Future In Past CDR, which was originally released on the Wholly Other imprint in 2002, and Blackest Rainbow was reissue (with one additional track) Texas Blues Working as a double-vinyl LP set. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Christina+Carter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.