Globally recognised as one of the most exciting, forward thinking and cutting edge producers on the scene, Chris Lake's rare ability to create tracks that fuse elements of house, electro and techno has not been lost on his fellow peers. His innovative productions continue to receive wave after wave of support from such luminaries that include Sasha, Danny Howells, Justin Robertson, Sander Kleinenberg and Carl Cox, whilst Pete Tong leads the way in championing the unique sound that has established Chris as one of the world's elite.

An avid producer since 2001, Chris's breakthrough came in 2005. His tracks 'One Too Many' and 'Release' caught the attention of the world's press and A&R bosses, but it was the release of his smash hit 'Changes' that catapulted his name into the record boxes of DJs across the planet.

'Changes' became Radio 1's 'Essential New Tune' twice, reaching number 27 in the national charts and picking up column inches in tabloid papers and magazines; turning the once underground buzzer into a worldwide hit.

Chris's DJ schedule duly sky rocketed and over the past 2 years, he has travelled to all four corners of the globe taking in Asia, South America, USA, Australia and Africa. He has graced some of the biggest clubs on the planet that include Ministry Of Sound, Space, Warung, Spybar and Amnesia together with countless festivals - Global Gathering, Creamfields and the Extrema festival in Holland.

In 2006, Chris set up Rising Music as an outlet for his new productions. Rising swiftly became the benchmark for pure underground house - releases that included 'One Too Many', 'Fantasy' and 'Release' have set the standard, whilst Chris has also shown that his A&R head is amongst the best in the business by signing artists that include Sebastien Leger, Micky Slim and Deadmau5.

Chris's success continued in 2007 with his track 'Carry Me Away' hitting the coveted number one spot on the USA Billboard Dance Chart, thus etching his name into the dance history books and propelling his US profile into the stratosphere.

Further collaborations in 2007 with Deadmau5 on 'I thought inside out' and Sebastien Leger 'Word/Ghost' once again proved Chris's versatility in the studio, and with both productions hitting the Beatport Top spot, Chris continued to cement his status as one of the world's finest producers.

And of course there is the small matter of Chris remixing some of the biggest names in the music scene. Robbie Williams, Kylie Minogue, Mark Ronson, Lily Allen, Deadmau5 and the Rogue Traders are amongst some of the names to have received sublime workouts from Chris, and support has been immense; not only from Radio 1, but every major radio station around the world.

Radio 1 has also allowed Chris to show his unrivalled ability in the art of DJ'ing. His Essential Mix in August 2007 was yet another defining step in his career as he unveiled two hours of sublime techno, electro and tech house to keep a worldwide audience of millions captivated. His mix was voted as one of the best since the inception of the Essential Mix series, and reminded everyone why Chris is at the top of his trade.

2008 has seen Chris's profile grow even bigger with his global DJ tours, top quality releases, and an eye for the new media world via his new Podcast series - the latter of which has made i-Tunes' 'new and notable' for the last three months. Meanwhile his stunning track 'Only One' taken from his One E.P has held its place in Beatport's Top 5 for more than two weeks, and is currently climbing the US and Australian dance charts faster than ever.

His latest track doing the rounds is 'If you knew', a track Pete Tong reckons is "sounding like a cross between 'Changes' and the song 'Pjanoo' never had - conventional but huge... and we haven't had a song like this for a while."

Chris shows no signs of slowing down, and with demand for his sound even higher than ever, you can be sure to see his name up in lights for many years to come.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chris+Lake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.