A star has risen. Christopher Martin, the talented singer/performer from Back Pasture in St. Catherine who shot to instant fame and recognition shortly after winning the coveted Digicel Rising Stars title in 2005, is fast becoming one of the most sought after performers on the Jamaican music landscape. 

With a slate of singles permeating radio and the Jamaican music charts including Giving It and Jamaican Girls, Christopher created history when he became the first Digicel Rising Stars alumni to score a hit single on any chart in Jamaica. 

‘It has been a wonderful journey so far, filled with new and promising encounters. It is also challenging but I love what I am doing, so it makes that much easier’, Christopher remarked when asked about the journey from being an unknown to a popular personality. 

Christopher’s growth as an artiste and an individual ever since he shot onto the scene in 2005 is quite evident. His vocal chops have improved drastically, he is now under the guidance of the Big Yard label which is one of the most prolific musical entities in Jamaica, and he has gained a lot of respect from his peers.

‘I’ve grown tremendously and I am more confident in my performance. My voice also seems more richer and I know exactly what it is I am capable of. I think I have gained the respect from others, due to the amount of work that I have been putting in’, said Martin. 

Martin was born on Valentine’s Day in 1987 to parents Cleveland and Maxine Martin. He attended the Watermount All-Age School and later the St. Jago High School. It was during his high school years that his love for the dramatic arts and sports developed. He participated in various sporting activities including football and he even participated in the School’s Drama Festival where he was awarded the best actor award in 2003. That same year he was named Mr. St. Jago High and he also earned the sectional prize for Most Talented.

Additionally, Martin has won numerous awards for singing, throughout his high school years. In 2005, he was awarded the Gold Medal in the Jamaica National Skills competition in singing. 

Christopher graduated from St. Jago High school in 2003. After winning the Digicel Rising Stars competition, Martin participated in Digicel’s Christmas promotions in 2005. His debut single Love is all We Need formed part of the promotional campaign.

Martin’s subsequent releases included Conscience, Christmas in Jamdown featuring the Katalys Crew, My Love for You, Take My Wings, Tonight, Giving It, and Jamaican Girls. He has worked with a number of top producers in the reggae/dancehall arena including Robert Livingston (Big Yard), Arif Cooper, Shane Brown and Christopher Birch.

He has performed on a number of stage shows, events, functions and entertainment events across Jamaica and even overseas. One of his major accomplishments in 2006 was signing a contract with Blue Cross of Jamaica. He will make appearances on the behalf of the company until June 2006. Martin’s parents have been the source of his motivation to pursue his musical ambitions. ‘My parents and my peers at school really motivated me. They always said that I would be a star’, he said. He said his main objective is to bring the music and his interpretation of the music to farther heights. ‘I want every household across the world to know and love my music and where I come from’, Martin added.

Martin is presently studying Business Management and Accounting at the University of Technology (UTECH) in Jamaica. His lifelong goal is to become an entrepreneur.

Martin lists singing, reading, socializing and baking among his hobbies. His website which can be seen by logging on to www.chrismartin.com.jm is up and running. His fans can interact with him via that medium. Very soon, a fan club will be officially launched where fans can get closer to him.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Christopher+Martin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.