Christa Vi, an Australian / German Singer Songwriter living in East London, has been building her sound for a number years, self-releasing singles and providing guest vocals for other artists such as Box of Wolves from Canada (Electronic Rumors) and respected Australian songwriter Ben Salter (ABC Music). Born out of a complex relationship with her adopted city of London and it's people, her songs have often been sparked by overhearing strangers' conversations, where anonymous but dense living gives rise to shared snippets of private emotions and insight.

Christa Vi's latest single 'Makeshift Happiness' offers a confident new synthpop direction, whilst retaining the song and personal lyrics as the primary focus. A casual obsession with origami and papercraft inspired the concept of creating something beautiful or functional out of something ordinary- a metaphor for making the best of life's hard knocks.

An album is also on the way, produced by Andrew McDonnell (Crystal Fighters, SUNS, Petite Noir) and Dan Brown (Massive Attack, Karin Park) as well as Ben Fitzgerald (Stubborn Heart) and the eclectic George Shilling (Yazz, Stornoway, Primal Scream) lending their skills to the project. Remixes have always been part of Christa's releases gaining attention with NuDisco remixes by Canada's Cyclist and Russia's Cosmonaut Grechko, as well as Bristol-based Asa and Eleven8's deeper UK bass sound. The 'Makeshift Happiness' single EP also includes remixes by American producers Amtrac and Small Pyramids. Her upcoming release features remixes by Braxton (MTA), Earl Grey (Exploited) and James Cured (DFA). 

Christa has also sought out a team of artistic collaborators to put together her video and album artwork, the joy of DIY and shared creativity driving her choices, with previous cover-art images by artist Amy Joy Watson and stop-motion filmmakers Luke & Alex Animation collaborating on her first video for 'Your Heart'. Collaborators for her last single Makeshift Happiness include Melbourne- based illustrator and painter Erin Greer who provided the cover-art, and her video was shot by London-based director Chris Turner / Favourite Colour Black (Editors, Gazelle Twin), enlisting her actor friends and even their pets to perform in the video.

Christa Vi has attracted the attention of a number of music blogs and her singles have been played on BBC6 Introducing, Amazing Radio, ResonanceFM and other online and student radio stations in the UK, USA, and Australasia including Triple J and Sydney's FBI radio. Christa Vi has previously played the London live circuit with her band and is putting together a live show to support her debut LP release in Summer 2016. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Christa+Vi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.