There are multiple artists that perform under the name Chrome:

1. Chrome is an experimental rock group founded in San Francisco, California in 1976 by Damon Edge and Gary Spain (synth). They recorded and released their first album, The Visitation, with members John Lambdin (guitar and bass), Mike Low (guitar/vocal). Mike Low left the band to be replaced by guitarist and vocalist Helios Creed, the band released Alien Soundtracks, the project of which started out as a soundtrack for a radical San Francisco strip show.

Chrome largely abandoned conventional rock compositions, instead employing cut up and collage techniques and heavily processed sound to create a kind of sci-fi punk sound. They made use of tape loops, samples, noisescapes, synthesizers and strange guitar sounds. 

Following Alien Soundtracks, John Lambdin left Chrome, and Gary Spain gradually played less of an active role in the band, leaving a core of Helios Creed and Damon Edge to explore their own experiments with new members. The Creed/Edge collaboration lead to a number of more albums, including Half Machine Lip Moves (making best album lists by Wire Magazine and Julian Cope), Read Only Memory, Red Exposure, Blood On the Moon, 3rd from the Sun and No Humans Allowed.

In 1983 Edge moved to Paris with his wife, where he formed a new lineup of Chrome, releasing a number of albums without Helios Creed, starting with Into the Eyes of the Zombie King, until Edge's death in 1995. Helios Creed formed a new version of Chrome with both new and previous members, shortly after Edge's passing. The Helios-lead Chrome releasing their first album, Retro Transmission, in 1997, and have never officially broken up. They also toured from 1997 to 2001. The last released Chrome album was 2002's Angel of the Clouds, which was pieced together from unused tapes featuring Damon Edge.

Both Damon Edge and Helios Creed have a number of solo, non-Chrome titled albums.

2. Chrome is a rapper from North Memphis, Tennessee's Frayser area, the same neighborhood of fellow H.C.P member, Frayser Boy. Chrome is signed to the Hypnotize Minds record label, which is owned by Three 6 Mafia.

Chrome released his first album in the winter of 2005, called Straight To The Pros. The singles off of that album were "So Fresh" and "I Learned".

3. Chrome is a thrash metal band from Kangasniemi, Eastern Finland.

4. Chrome is also a Swedish viking rock band.

5. Chrome is a hip hop artist from Norwich, England.

6. Chrome is an Austrian minimal techno duo. It's a project of  Camo and Krooked who are better known for their drum and bass music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Chrome">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.