It all began in 1995, with the end of a band called "MAFETASY". Back then, José Marques & João Lopes decided to create a new project called "CIBORIUM". Later on, Armando Barradas, Nuno Marecos & Antonia Beirante joined the band, composing the following line-up: José Marques (guitar & vocals); João Lopes (guitar); Armando Barradas (bass);Nuno Marecos (drums) & Antónia Beirante (keyboards). Later in 1996, after some technical evolution, they recorded at PÉ DE VENTO Studios the 1st and only demo tape called "On the strayed pyx", including two songs: "Where?" & "Pyx". During the year that followed, the demo promotion was made, as well as the making of the six tracks that would be included on their first CD, entitled "COLOSSAL CRAGS". The album was recorded during November of 1997, at REC N ROLL Studios, and produced by Luís Barros. On September of 1998, this work was edited by a sub-label of Independent Records, called Grade. Just right after this, there was a line-up change; Nuno Marecos left, being replaced by Bruno Guilherme, that played on all of the following promotional concerts. During 1999, CIBORIUM tour all over Portugal promoting "COLOSSAL CRAGS". On January of 2000 Antónia Beirante left the band and Ricardo Simões took her place, but due to some incompatibilities, some months later he left the band, not being replaced by anyone. Later on January of 2001, João Sequeira joined CIBORIUM on the vocals. The band starts to work on the songs that will compose the 2nd album, "OVERGROWING HUMAN VOID". FLOYD STUDIO is the chosen one for the recordings of this new work. A few months later, João Lopes leave's the band. Meanwhile, the band chooses not to aqquire a new guitar player, but instead they invited a keyboard player named Ricardo Patricio to work in future works! This time the band made some arrangements adding keyboards to the new songs in live concerts!!! The band as changed the line up now! The new bass player is Bruno and the vocals are again with João sequeira. Ricardo Patricio was left the band and we added a new guitar player Ricardo Rodrigues and for keyboards now is a a new member called Sérgio Agostinho! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ciborium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.