There are many artists with this name
1) Cielo Drive is a stoner band from Italy.
The band formed in 2010, by the desire to play and mix Stoner and Doom Rock, trying to enrich the mixture with a good dose of blues and psychedelic vibes. The sound of Cielo Drive unlikely to be cataloged in a definite pattern because of different registers, that gives to the listener the taste to walk close to the band, into beautiful and never repetitive territoris.
In June 2012, released their first album "Red Magik Mushroom", entirely recorded, produced, mixed and mastered by V - Hombre Lobo Fisik studies in Rome. Among their ranks, the presence of some musicians already involved in other bands: Giulio Serpico Marini (Nerodia & Kamelia Bloom), Tiziano Giammichele (Camion), Francesca Kamelia Cascasi (Nerodia & Kamelia's Bloom) e Fulvio Glerean (In Cold Blood)

Band Members:
† Giulio JUDHA Marini - VOICE/GUITARS
† Fulvio Glerean - GUITARS
† Francesca KAMELIA Cascasi - BASS
† Tiziano Giammichele - DRUMS

http://www.facebook.com/cielo
http://www.myspace.com/murdercielodrive
http://www.youtube.com/user/CieloDrive100


2) Cielo Drive (a Alternative Rock band from Edinburgh, Scotland) were formed in 2003 by songwriter Sean Porteous and drummer Franko Morgan. At their first practice together they brough along bass player Chris Buckley and became to play songs Porteous had written during his off time with band Seneka.

In early 2007 Franko Morgan left the band due to personal reasons and the band hired old friend of Porteous and former Seneka drummer Paul Bannon. They recorded with him in London months later.

After some mysterious circumstances Paul Bannon left the band and Franko Morgan came back to sit on the drum stool after spending 4 months in a Rehabilitation Center in Los Angeles to fight an alcohol addiction.

The Band signed to the Island Def Jam label in June 2006 and are set to do a full tour of USA starting January 2008.

They have released their debut album 'Goodbye To Yesterday' through Island Def Music in UK and is set for worldwide release sometime in 2008.

Cielo Drive have become well known for their energetic live performances and crowd interaction. At a show in Manchester they invited a fan to come onstage to play Xbox soccer game Pro Evolution Soccer against drummer Franko Morgan, which was shown on big screens throughout the venue.

3) Cielo Drive is the old name of the colombian band Cielito Drive. Please change your ID3 tags correctly on your MP3.

Check out their official website: www.cielitodrive.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cielo+Drive">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.