Nobody wants to be a hero anymore, the late 90's made sure of that when they tapped the solo on the shoulder and showed it the door, ushered all the groupies back to college and made everyone start wearing normal clothes, you know, the sort you can actually buy and wear.
It's taken a lengthy period of cultural detox, the separation of metal from excess and suddenly it seems like a great idea to not just make straight up metal without pandering the genre, but to do it with power and presence. 

Transcend Record’s newest signing Cinders Fall have the colourful heritage of any problem children; adopted charges of hardcore-turned-thrash mob Stampin' Ground, their EP 'The Bridge Between' produced by SG guitarist Scott Atkins and the young band taken out as the main support on the scene legends final tour, shows with the eclectic likes of Akercocke, Exit Ten, Cry For Silence, Raging Speedhorn, Dry Kill Logic, Whitechapel, Evile, Send More Paramedics, Panic Cell, Burning Skies and tours with gone-global Sylosis and Malefice. 

Since their genesis in 2004, the band have betrayed nothing about where they 'belong' in the tribal musical landscape, save on the stage in front of you with necks out and heads banging. This sonic assault has not been restricted to just the UK either, western Europe has also felt the force of the CF machine and pledged their allegiance with the horns firmly in the air.  

Perhaps more of a mission statement than a title, their new EP 'The Reckoning' is a powerful blow for real metal in a world that frowns on a lack of marketable suffixes, prefixes and qualifiers. Critically acclaimed the world over, it seamlessly blends high-octane balls-out thrash, Gothenberg-style melodic death metal fury, anthemic righteousness and the punishing, tectonic force and attitude of a band that's really honed its craft. Cinders Fall are putting the hero right back before the guitar. Let chaos unite! 

Contact:
Transcend Records - kayleigh@transcendmediagroup.com
Management - m.smilgies@hidden-force.com
Booking - management@cindersfall.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cinders+Fall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.