Percussionist Edgardo Cintron is a second-generation Puerto Rican and a second generation musician, known as much for his affable personality and generous spirit as for his tasty musicianship. Born on August 28th, 1958 in Fort Riley, Kansas, he attributes his musical influences to his Father, Pablo, who played guitar in the U.S. military band and also to Charlie Parker, Stevie Wonder, Carlos Santana and Tito Puente. By the age of five, Edgardo was studying French horn and guitar, and later, the percussion, all under his father’s direction. 
Moving the Family to the East Coast in 1962, the elder Cintron formed his own band, Los Tropicales. By age twelve, Edgardo had the percussion chair. He traveled up and down the coast with the band, playing at hotels and Latin dances, working with such notable musicians as Yomo Toro and Maso Rivera. “We used to wear the ruffled shirts, the red suits and get the people dancing” says Edgardo. “We played all the great Latin standards. 
After serving in the army himself (1975-1977), Edgardo began studying music again. In 1988, he formed his own twelve-piece band, the Tiempo Noventa Orchestra. They went on to play numerous jazz festivals and concerts including the Bethlehem Music Festival, Newark Jazz Festival, Clifford Brown Jazz Festival, and Cape May Jazz Festival.
In 1995, Edgardo self-produced his debut CD with the Orchestra entitled, “Musica Caliente”. It featured saxophonist Mike Pedicin, Jr. and percussionist, Pablo Batista (Congas). The ten-song CD was released on the Naxos label.
Two CD’s for the DBK label followed. In 1998, Edgardo recorded Spanish Eyes with a trio and Straight No Chaser with the Tiempo Noventa Orchestra. The latter tracked on the Gavin Charts at #16. Both were pre-nominated for the Grammy’s that year.
Currently, Edgardo fronts the Latin pop orchestra, “Cintron" . Their latest recoding “CINTRON LIVE MANTECA is doing very well and can be purchased at all major music stores. You can visit their web site www.cintronband.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cintron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.