There are several artists with this name:

1) Canadian-based underground hip-hop duo.
2) Hard core/metal band from Long Beach, New York.
3) Ambient duo of Theo Travis and Dave Sturt.
4) New Wave / Postpunk band from L.A. (1977-83)

1) Canadian-based hip hop duo whose album 360 Degrees came to prominance on the Canadian scene in the mid-90s.  
Cipher is producer Clean, providing an atmospheric blend of smokey jams, late-night jazz and ambient synths whilst rapper G2, brings true microphone talent to the mix. 

Vancouver-based Cipher breathes new life into a hip-hop world run-down by repetitive styles, and played-out gimmicks. The duo, consisting of Clean (producer/engineer) and G² (lyricist/DJ), have been cutting tracks together since 1991. Clean and G² first hooked up during some late night studio sessions in Boston, where the two we attending college to study music. After obtaining his degree from Boston's world-renowned Berklee College of Music, Clean established his own production company and fully equipped 24-track studio in Vancouver and the two continued to work on their material. Cipher's independent debut single & video 'Peeps' released in 1995 proved that the combination of G²'s fierce lyrics and Clean's manipulation behind the boards would be successful. The video for 'Peeps' landed the #2 position on MuchMusic's RAP CITY and the record received plenty of airplay on Canada's Radio Hip-Hop Shows. The group has never taken shortcuts in creating it's music, and the full length album 360° is proof of this. Containing a total of 16 tracks the album features guest appearances by several members of the Cipher family including; Sleep, Natural Skills, Pele Stoane, Precise and XL


2) Cipher was formed in 1996 by long time friends who wanted to bring something
new to underground music. As the group developed artistically and politically
they reasoned that art can and should have a serious social mission. That
mission, coupled with the band's unique blend of diverse musical conventions,
create Cipher's signature sound. Elements of hardcore and metal are intercut
with melodcism and politically radical lyrics to form a provocative, probing
treatment of race, gender, and class.

Cipher embraced a DIY work ethic that has led them to self-release many of
their earlier recordings and embark on numerous tours of the US. Cipher's
last offering, "Antidote" (2001) gained critical acclaim as an unrelenting,
neo-revolutionary musical statement.

After a series of both regional and national tours Cipher went into a two
year hiatus in order to focus much of its energies on writing new material
for its first full-length release on Uprising Records, the much anticipated
concept album, "Children of God's Fire".

With the album complete, the band is committed to opening critical spaces in
underground music and reawakening the legacy of dissent embedded in every
hardcore, punk , or rock riff.

http://www.myspace.com/cipher
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Cipher/13755097115
http://www.cipheronline.com
http://www.uprisingrecords.com
http://www.twitter.com/cipher_online
http://www.youtube.com/cipheronline


3) Cipher was formed in 1996 and since then they have released two albums, performed live at chill-out events and written and performed new scores to silent films by Alfred Hitchcock, F Murnau, GW Pabst and Karl Valentin. They have toured the UK several times performing live with their new scores for classic silent films. Cipher, comprising Dave Sturt and Theo Travis use sound samples from a wide range of sources, create new soundscapes incorporating Daves warm fretless bass playing with his unique harmonic textures and Theos haunting soprano saxophone and flute. The result is structured layers of sound with strong melodies and developing themes that recur throughout pieces. The music is imaginative and compulsive and yet can work on the level of background atmospheres and mood music. It is intense, relaxing, emotional, lyrical, often dark and spontaneous - there is a considerable element of improvisation in all performances.

They have cooperated with such artists as Steven Wilson, Richard Barbieri, and Daevid Allen.
So far, they have released three albums, "No Ordinary Man", "One Who Whispers", and "Elemental Forces".


4) See blog for more info <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cipher">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.