Circus of Damnation was born at the end of the cold winter 2003 in Turin.
The genesis is the experimentation of new sounds and musical genres, the core founded by Moontear on vocals and drums and by Mushli on keyboards and piano is immediately completed with the inclusion of Fatals on bass and two guitarists Blackthorn and Ander. The name of the band is chosen as a metaphor for a caravan that travels around the world carrying his horrific show, a symbolic passage of the Circus.
Each of them represents a circus artist in "Dark" key, Moontear on vocals is the presenter, Mushli the tamer,
Fatals the clown, Blackthorn the juggler, Ander the mime. Each member of the group thanks to different musical influences helped create the sound of the band edited mainly by Mushli leaving expression to Moontear’s lyrics and flowing emotions expressed by the music, playing and improvising together in the rehearsal room.
The result is a sound that they call themselves Dark Melancholy Metal, but that is confirmed when their debut Ep will be released. The band’s first real experience came during a musical competition in which their song "In Speciem Cadaveris" caught the attention of a theater company who commissioned the band the soundtrack of a show, a play based on the local legend of the witch "Micillina". A woman from the Piedmontese hills, who in the middle of 1500 is said to have made a pact with the Devil for which the woman was burned at the stake.
In May 2004 Circus of Damnation recorded the first work to which Fatals assigned the title: "Don’t Let Them Fall" and the sad juggler that appears in the artwork of the album is the icon.
In February 2007 the record label Dawn of Sadness, active since 1993 for the promotion of extreme and independent Metal music convinced by the artistic idea of the band decided to produce and distribute the Ep version of "Don’t Let Them Fall". The EP is reviewed by several magazines, webzines and almost all emphasize the particularity of their sound, is considered difficult cataloging, classical music with blackmetal passages, use of minimal voices, romantic lyrics and introspective, traditional metal instruments distorted and played as an accompaniment to symphonic compositions rather than in the foreground. A literal definition of Dark and Melancholic Metal is used and the focus is on melodies, on the atmosphere that these songs create thanks to the slow, rhythmic times, a mixture between gothicmetal, blackmetal and symphonic doom. The band carries around the "Dark Melancholy Metal" and does so through different shows and concerts in the "underground" environments of its city and province as well as some quotations, national awards and beyond European borders. Don’t Let Them Fall entirely recorded at the Rocklab Studio in Turin, born halfway between metal album and soundtrack, with Dawn of Sadness in the following years will get reviews and consideration among lovers of the dark-gothic movement in the USA and Mexico.
In the same month of February 2007 Circus of Damnation is proud to present the new Flower-Logo designed personally by Fatals, this is the symbol of their second artistic step.
In June 2007 Ander (guitar) left Circus of Damnation, a consensual choice of his and the band, allowing him to continue his personal artistic and theatrical career.
In September 2007 the band continued its promotion and concerts, continuing to write new music for a full-length album, live sessions continue and Moontear in those months decides to leave the drums to a new component to be able to dedicate more energy to the voice, but especially to the stage impact in Live that required a front-man able to involve even more the audience. For this reason the following shows were performed with the drummer El Moro, but soon after was replaced.
In 2009 Ronnie the puppeteer is the drummer of the band and will be until the recordings of their first full-lenght.
"Equilibrium, Mediocrity?" is an album that contains new songs, but within it has melodies and structures on which the band was already working in the past. Mushli and Moontear want to experience a different work than the previous one, an album where guitars and bass are entrusted to the multi-instrumentalist Fatals and also find space for three collaborations. The first artist involved is Giordano Loddo, heavy metal singer already active in the underground scene which performs the song "My Cold Chamber", the second guest is Shanya, a female voice for "Half Hidden Moon", and in "Your End" the duet with Moontear is completed thanks to Holy Smoke from NoForgiveness, a Turin’s industrial metal band.
In 2011, Circus of Damnation released "Equilibrium, Mediocrity?", the album was recorded in a circus tent and mixed at One Voice Studio by Daniele Giordana (Hatebreed, Monster Magnets) and sees a new line-up represented by Moontear on vocals, Ronnie on drums, Mushli on piano and keyboards, Fatals on bass and guitars.
In 2021 Circus of Damnation released digital versions of the albums and through the official social pages Moontear, Mushli and Fatals announce that they are working together on new musical projects









 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Circus+of+Damnation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.