“Step up step up, all who are fed up. The sad, the mad and the plain insane. Release your freak, it’s showtime!”

Cirrha Niva released their recent album ‘Out Of The Freakshow,’!

Cirrha Niva (derived from Cirrha & Nisa the mountain tops of the Parnassus, symbol of Divine Wisdom, Poetic Inspiration and Human Knowledge, as mentioned in Dante Alighieri’s epic poem The Divine Comedy) has a strong DO-IT-YOURSELF attitude and they work 220% for their music. 

All albums are released on their own independent label Parnassus Records. The band invested a lot in quality studio recordings, cd production and press promotion. And it pays off, because the band has received overall high rates from international music press.

After the exceptionally well reviewed album ‘For Moments Never Done’ Cirrha Niva started writing ‘Out Of The Freakshow,’.

In 2009, Cirrha Niva had developed their unique ‘For Moments Never Done’ sound. Now, again under the guidence of producers Jochem Jacobs and Bouke Visser of Split Second Sound Studio (Textures ect), the band takes it to the next level. 
On ‘Out Of The Freakshow,’ the music still consists of technical riffs, pounding drums, melodic and shredding guitar solo’s. But the band utilises more of a Seventies-feel and have packed much more emotion and anger into the compositions. They even take the heavyness and speed to an unprecedented level for Cirrha Niva. All this and more results in the newborn album: ‘Out Of The Freakshow,’. 

After intense live performances on international stages and festivals  (a.o. Zwarte Cross (NL), Alcatraz Metal Fest (B), Occult Fest (NL),  Roadgrill (NL), Elsrock (NL)), the band is rewarded with positive reactions from both press and audience on their live performance. Good criticism on solid songs,  great performance and musically excellent craftsmanship are received  after every show.

Besides numerous headline shows after the album releases ‘Liaison de la Morte’ and ‘For Moments Never Done’, Cirrha Niva joined Crimson Glory (USA) during their complete 2011 European Tour, played at major festivals like Alcatraz Metal Festival (B), Dokk’em Open Air (NL) and Zwarte Cross (NL) and supported wellknown acts such as Blind Guardian (GER), Lacuna Coil (IT), Evergrey (SE), Pain of Salvation (SE), Planet X (USA), Skyclad (UK) & Evanescence (USA)! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cirrha+Niva">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.