There are probably plenty of bands with this name.

(1) City Limits evolved from the Overbrook Singers, a gospel group formed by Ted Wortham and Raye Walter at Overbrook High School in Philadelphia: the first gospel group organized in Philadelphia’s public school system since the abolition of bible reading. They grew to 50 stirring voices and specialized in performing original songs which set them apart from similar groups. Members: Annette Guest, Rochelle Fleming and Wardell Piper a.k.a. First Choice scored a big secular hit “Armed And Extremely Dangerous,” on Philly Groove Records but continued traveling and singing with the Overbrook Singers until they graduated. In the early 70’s, member Bruce Hawes joined Philadelphia International Records and greased the path for the Overbrook Singers to hopefully become the label’s first gospel group. Hawes graduated from Olney High in Philadelphia but became an Overbrook Singer when they opened their membership to students and alumni of other schools.

By time their sole album Circle surfaced on TSOP Records in 1976, the once robust group was a quartet and more akin to the Fifth Dimension than the dynamic God praising choir that could stir the dead. After the big shakedown, City Limits consisted of Terri Wells, Clayton Wortham, Ronald Richardson and Vickilyn Reynolds, and signed as a soul/pop group, not a gospel act. The neglected LP contains some good moments including “People We Need A Change,” written by Cynthia Biggs and Hawes; after two minutes the piano player and drummer fight for attention and changes the tempo from a funk groove to a maniacal throbber - If that’s not enough, the female lead sounds like Tammi Terrell. Other nuggets including “Uncle James,” also recorded by New York City on their I’m Doing Fine album. Three ex members of the Overbrook Singers: Biggs, Hawes, and Theodore Wortham Jr., along with non-members Joe Jefferson and Charles Simmons wrote the eight-songs in various collaborations.

Clayton is founder Ted Wortham’s brother. Terri Wells toured with Dexter Wansel, Roy Ayers and Fat Larry’s Band; she cut solo albums: Watch Out, on WMOT, and 21st Century Fox, on Omni Records as Brandi Wells. The late Ronald Richardson enjoyed success as an actor and played many memorable roles on television and stage. He played a preacher on 227, the sitcom starring, Marla Gibbs and won a Tony for his part in Huck Finn on Broadway. Vickilyn Reynolds (Ronald’s sister) acted in the same mediums as her brother, co-starring in the series Sugar and Spice, and playing a forest ranger in an episode of 227. Reynolds other achievements include a Sprint commercial with Candace Bergan and a starring role on Broadway in Bring In Da Noise, Bring In Da Funk.

(2) City Limits is a punk band from New Brunswick, New Jersey started in January 2012. Music can be found at http://www.facebook.com/citylimitsnj

(3) City Limits was a melodic hardcore punk band from Oxnard, California composed of former members of Total Resistance. 

(4) Electro/Indie/Guitar band from Santos, Brazil with several tracks released on Cri du Chat Disques. Active until mid 90s.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/City+Limits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.