CIVILIZATION ONE was founded  in 2006 
by The Native Sri Lankan vocalist Chitral "Chity" 
Somapala 
and  The French Bassist Pierre-Emmanuel 
Pélisson. 

They were looking for a band 
which could combine heavy riffing
with the sensitivity of 
melodic/catchy vocals from the 
classic heavy metal / hard rock 
influences they gathered from
travelling through many paths 
in their musical careers. 
  
Their debut album "Revolution 
Rising" was Produced under the 
hands of Markus Teske 
(VANDEN PLAS, DOMINICI, 
MOB RULES, RED CIRCUIT) in 
the Bazement Studios in 
Germany and was released in 
Europe by Metal Heaven and in 
Japan by Spiritual Beast in 2007. 
  
The Debut was well praised and 
reviewed by the international 
press. 
  
That same year, after all the buzz 
on internet among metal/rock 
fans, the band was offered to 
headline the ProgPower UK’s 
Pre-Party show in Cheltenham, 
England. They gained a decent 
popularity in UK even without a 
record deal a flashy/tight 
performance. The promoters took 
notice of the band and booked 
Civilization One for festivals in Germany
2008.They Made a Huge Impact in Sri Lanka performing as the first ever International Metal Act infront of 4000 spectators in November 2008 at  Sri Lanka’s Exhibition Center Colombo on TNL ONSTAGE Show as the Headliner.
 
At the beginning 
of 2008 Due to few line up Changes, a more than adequate 
new entrant was found the German Drummer
Michael Stein  And 
The Englishman Tim Mills  quickly 
jumped on the ship to head off 
the shows being confirmed and 
for the 2nd album “Calling the 
Gods” due in 2009. 
  
The metal community now has 
the opportunity to see the 
dynamic on stage performance of 
a heavy metal style with classic 
metal influences which has 
already made quite an impression 
on journalists and fans 
equally all over the globe. 
"  

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Civilization+One">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.