There are three bands with the name Civil Disobedience:

1.) Civil Disobedience is a Punk Rock / Hardcore band originally from Michigan.  They have released music on Havoc Records , Profane Existence Records and their own label H.F.T. Records. The band was founded in 1989. They play a very unique style of hard hitting socio-political Hardcore / Punk / Thrash infused with other eclectic influences, including reggae and ska. See Bio Below.

2.) Civil Disobedience was a punk rock band from Southern California, notably featured on the “Who Cares” compilation released in 1981 by American Standard Records.

3.) Civil Disobedience is an acoustic band from Birmingham, England notable for their percussive brand of often politically inspired melodic folk.


Civil Disobedience (Punk Rock / Hardcore band - Michigan, US) : was formed in Saginaw, Michigan as the result of two local bands, the Belligerents and D.F.C., merging into one band, in late 1989, early 1990. Civil Disobedience (referred to by many as Civil D for short) was inspired by many forms of music, but first and foremost, the music band members had grown up on, the Hardcore/Punk rock and Thrash metal of the 1980's.  Taking an active role in the re-emerging Hardcore scene of the early 1990's, the band went on to write, record and play some of the most unique and inspiring Punk Rock / Hardcore of that decade. Their music has only grown in popularity and impact since. Core Members remain active in music, writing, ect.  The band members have recently started their own label H.F.T. records to handle all past and upcoming releases. 

Discography: 
Political Prisoners Demo (self released 1992) 
Political Prisoners remastered MP3 (H.F.T. records 2012)
In a Few Hours of Madness... E.P (Havoc 1994)
In a Few hours of Madness...E.P. remastered MP3 (H.F.T.records 2012)
Skinny Studios Sessions (Comp tracks- Clean Plate Records 1995)
Die Human Race V/A Flexi (Profane Existence 1996)
Invention Extinction LP (Profane Existence 1996)
Invention Extinction  LP remastered MP3  W/ bonus tracks (H.F.T. Records 2012)
Hindsight E.P. (unreleased recorded 1997)
Hindsight E.P. Bonus Tracks featured on Invention Extinction LP MP3 and Discography CD (H.F.T. Records 2012)
"The Whole Nine Grams ..."  CD (Complete Studio Discography, H.F.T. Records 2012) 

Band members and additional info:
Started:1989
Members :
Vocals: M.F.Delicious “the Impresario” aka Don Breako “the Big Breakfast”
(J. Boyle)
Bass/Backing vocals :Forbisquis “Burn a fattie” Schlongstrong 
( D. Trinklein)
Drums: Brother Frank "the Methematician" aka “the Tall man” 
(K. Renna)
Lead Guitar/Backing Vocals: Spank Lux aka “Der Sugar Baby” 
(M. Schmidt)
Rhythm Guitar: Nosferatu "Cold Packin'" Smith aka "Taylor Stiff"
(J.Taylor)
Vocals: Rikker Von Drunker aka “The Rougarou”
( R. Goodreau) 

Additional Members: Joe Average (J. Stone) Rhythm Guitar January 1992 - May 1994, Kenny "Last words" Schmitzer : Drums August 1990 - June 1992

Hometown:"Sagnasty" "The Nasty" (Saginaw) Michigan - USA (Deep in the Rust Belt)
Record Label: Healthy Fear of Tyranny records / Havoc records
General Manager: Rodney"Goldy Locks" O'Neal aka "The Back Hand of god"
Influences: Old school Punk rock/ Hardcore, Metal, Punk Metal, Reggae, Ska, Rock n Roll, Hip- Hop, Old Soul, Funk, rebellion in music, free thought, awareness and change through music and discourse.
 
CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (PUNK ROCK / HARDCORE band) OFFICIAL page : www.civildisobedienceband.com 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Civil+Disobedience">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.