The Fabulous World Of CLANROCK January 1992. André Thilges(guitar), former member of the legendary Nazz Nazz, Rock Band made in Luxemburg, got a new band started. More Nazz Nazz members, Claude Kieffer(guitar) and Fern Clees(harp) joined Al Werner(keys), Änder Frings(vocals), Dan Turmes(bass) and Steve Troes(drums), all of them well known in the local music scene. Everyday Zulu was born! The band toured Slovakia and the Czech Republic in 1993. From the beginning, EDZ was a kind of unusual rock and blues concoction and the first CD Touch the Earth was released in April 94. But then, several members left the band and the line-up started changing time and again during that dark unproductive period of 95-96. Through all this, André and Al never gave up and by 1997 they had a new band put together. André Thilges(guitar), Al Werner(keys), Michel Weis(drums), Pit Vinkowsky(pipes), Mario Bruns(vocals) and Ronny Mullenders(bass). Multitalented piper Pit finally introduced the band to folk. While during 98 the music was still more on the classic folk side, it gradually gained momentum and from there, traditional, Celtic, middle age and progressive hard rock just fused into what we now know as typically EDZ or CLANROCK. Back then, the second album Welcome to my kingdom was released in September 1999, together with the video clip Apeman. Finally, in 2000, the band hit the charts on RTL radio Luxemburg. Den Essegkrou made number two in the international top 50, staying there for tree weeks; twelve weeks in the top ten. This beat any other national band! The following CD The Colour Tracks (1500 CDs) was sold out within 4 months. EDZ music was used for commercial ads, played in the Luxemburg documentary at Expo 2000 in Hanover (Germany) and the band performed on TV. Ronni Mullenders left EDZ in 2001 and young Max Frantzen(bass) joined the Zulu Family. At some point the German record company "Nibelung Records", contracted EDZ. But for commercial reasons they were asked to change the name of the band. So after all those years, in 2003 EDZ became CLANROCK. Over those years EDZ and CLANROCK met: Molly Hatchet, Stan Webb, Be Sharp, Living Blues, Roger Chapman, Savoy Brown, Steppenwolf, Schandmaul, Fury in the Slaughterhouse, Company of the Snakes, Holy Moses, Pink Cream 69, In Extremo, Uriah Heep, Xandria, Thanateros.... ....and many more  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Clanrock">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.