Clara Luzia is a musician from Vienna/Austria  who started writing and performing songs in the early 90s, and founded her first band Alalie Lilt in 1999.

In 2006 she left the band and started working on her original material with producer Alexander Nefzger. Her full length CD "Railroad Tracks" was released on Clara's newly founded label Asinella Records in 2006, followed by 2007's "The Long Memory" which gained Clara Luzia the Austrian Music Award AMADEUS.

Luzia was accompanied live by fellow musicians Alexander Nefzger on piano, Heidi Dokalik on Cello, Mika Vember on cajon and backing vocals, Manfred Fau on bass, and Ines Perschy on drums. Her 2009 release "The Ground Below" gained her another AMADEUS nomination, as well as massive radio airplay in Germany and Austria.

After the tour Clara Luzia took a break reorganising her live-set-up which now consists of Heidi Dokalik (cello, backing vocals), Ines Perschy (drums, backing vocals), and Max Hauer (piano, bass, guitar). The four piece recorded the album "Falling into place" together which again was very well received by the media, and the audience in Austria and Germany, but also brought the band to countries such as France, Slovakia, and Belgium.

In April 2012 Clara Luzia and her band plus newest addition pauT on clarinet and bass went to the studio again to record "We are fish" - released on march 1 2013.

In fall 2013 Ines Perschy left the band. Cathi Priemer is now hitting the drums. 

Clara's latest album "Here's to Nemesis" (produced by Julian Simmons) features Catharina Priemer on drums, and pauT on bass guitar. It was released on October 9 2015. 
 
In December 2015  pauT left the band to concentrate on his own project pauT.

In January 2016 Helene Glüxam joined to play the bass guitar and Lina Seybold plays additonal guitars.

In June 2016 pauT rejoined  the band playing bass guitar.

Luzia's critically acclaimed recent album "Here's to Nemesis" (produced by Julian Simmons) is released on October 9 2015. It is nominated in 3 categories for the Amadeus Austrian Music Awards.

2017: Monja Art's award wining coming-of-age drama "Siebzehn" (Seventeen) hits screens in Austria and Germany as well as festivals worldwide. Clara Luzia, drummer Catharina Priemer and bassist pauT play themselves in a short concert scene. 

In July 2017 a new single called "Mood Swing" is released on Asinella Records.
On September 29th Clara Luzia released another digital only single "On The Street".

Tour infos and more can be found here:  http://www.claraluzia.com 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Clara+Luzia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.