About Clare and the Reasons

Brooklyn-based Clare and the Reasons, fronted by collaborators Clare Manchon and Olivier Manchon, are pleased to announce the release of their sophomore album, Arrow, just out October 20th on Frog Stand Records. Arrow features a special guest appearance from Shara Worden of My Brightest Diamond, and is the followup to their acclaimed debut LP, The Movie, which included contributions from Van Dyke Parks and Sufjan Stevens.

Clare and the gang have spent the past two years touring around the world in support of The Movie. Live, they have a steady list of contributors, with a lot of instruments– cellos, violas, things to hit, kazoos, baby kotos, saws, recorders, and a bass drum that says “Kaboom” on it. It took a bit of wood, nails and many blankets to make Arrow in a recording tent built in the Ditmas Park apartment of Clare and the Reasons’ neighbor, friend and engineer, Alex Venguer. Clare and the Reasons deliver an assortment of meticulously constructed and arranged songs, most written by Clare in her very own kitchen, arranged by Olivier in the living room with two cats by his side, and recorded with surgical precision with the help of “Reason” Bob Hart. Walking the line between musical maturity and sophistication and primal, childlike musical instincts, Arrow floats in both worlds, comfortably.

In the midst of nothing but glowing reviews of both “Arrow” and live shows Clare and the Reasons toured US/Canada 3 times for “Arrow” thus far with Van Dyke Parks, Vic Chesnutt and Nouvelle Vague. They did an extensive euro tour in March 2010. The Reasons have euro festivals this summer (including Primavera Sound and Meltdown Festival in London) and another USA tour with Van Dyke Parks in fall 2010. You can hear Clare’s voice throughout the first season singing on the beloved show ”Arrested Development”. Clare has 2 songs in new French films, “Jusqua Toi”, and “Les Nuits de Sister Welsh”.  Van Dyke Parks says, “Clare is the Reasons’ raison d’être. Melodious et mysterieux–(the group) defines esprit de corps. (wrapped in) elegant arrangements for your dream escape— Chamber music with edge. Get this Visa to real musical adventure. Totally transportive!” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Clare+and+the+Reasons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.