Classixx is an American electronic music record production and DJ duo, based in Los Angeles, composed of Michael David and Tyler Blake.

Tyler and Michael, childhood friends, started a DJ duo in the suburbs of Los Angeles. The name Classixx came from their liking of classic compilations of different music. The DJ duo is influenced by a plethora of music, ranging from old school R&B to Paul Simon to Kraftwerk.

The duo currently reside in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area. Michael David married Katie Gravette in 2011. David and Blake are childhood friends and attended the same middle school and high school together.

David spent the first half of the 2000s releasing his own music and touring in a band as a guitar player while Blake attended the Berklee School of Music. In 2005, David left his previous band and Blake dropped out of music school. Soon after, Classixx was formed. In their early twenties, Classixx were part of the new wave of the Los Angeles electronic music. A change from the banger-driven electro that had been dominating dance floors, their sound was a smooth blend of disco, new wave, funk, house, and indie rock. Recent remixes for groundbreaking and diverse artists include Phoenix, Mayer Hawthorne, Holy Ghost, Ladyhawke, Fischerspooner, Groove Armada, Yacht, Beni, Drop the Lime and Major Lazer. According to Chicagoist, Classixx "became staples in DJ sets all over the world".

Pitchfork Media wrote that the duo gave Phoenix's "Lisztomania" "a gorgeously pillowy synth-disco framework". The Los Angeles Times called it "pure disco cotton candy".

Classixx's debut single, "I'll Get You" featuring Jeppe (Junior Senior), was released in the summer of 2009 on Paris based Kitsune Records.

Classixx's first album, Hanging Gardens, was released on May 14, 2013 via Innovative Leisure.

Classixx announced their second album Faraway Reach via Instagram on February 17, 2016. The album features guest appearances by Passion Pit, T-Pain, De Lux, Alex Frankel, How to Dress Well, Nonku, Harriet Brown, Isles and Panama and was released on June 3, 2016. In 2017, they worked with Panama on his EP 'Hope for Something'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Classixx">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.