The band started in 1998, initially as a quintet, the Brazilian Death Metal Clawn arrives at their eight years of existence with the release of the first CD Deathless Beauty of The Silence thru Black Hole Productions. For those years, a lot of compilations and line-up changes were part of the history. The first registration recorded was made in April of the year of 1999, with the recording of the Demo Tape "Restrict Your Space". In December of the same year, with drummer Melissa's entrance, the band entered in studio for the recording of the Demo Tape "Second Warning." Amid the shows of popularization of the second Demo Tape and with the vocalist/bass Rodolfo entrance, the band consolidates as a trio, and the guitarist and vocalist Fabio becomes the only remainder from the original formation. The recording of the debut CD had begun in March of 2002 and in May of the same year, was released the "Slavery Mental State" EP counting with three tracks included in the Debut. The EP got a good repercussion from the part of specialized underground media, resulting in an extensive tour extensive in 2003, for five months the band hit the road and consolidate its name in a very strong way in their march for the crown of brazilian death metal. Another EP was released two years later, in 2004, entitle "Final State of Depression". Once again, the repercussion os this material was extremely favorable, making possible lots of other concerts that got a very good audience. Now CLAWN join the root of Black Hole Productions, with contract signed for two albums. The first album released in the beginning of 2006, it presents a modern Death Metal, without losing the spirit initiate by masters of the style in last decades. All the twelve tracks were mastered by Scott Hull, responsible for work on renowned bands, like Nile, Regurgitate and Exhumed, giving to the CD a much more extreme sonority. Now BHP is pretty sure that the Brazilian death metal reached a new level with CLAWN's debut cd. "Deathless Beauty of Silence" is mortal and intense, everything was made to punish the weak minds and turn your brains to liquid. Expect no mercy just pure aggression, ripping riffs, furious vocals and obsessive female drum work. This sick sewage trio explores death in a blasphemous way, all in a top-notch as you will see. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Clawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.