There are three Claws listed under this Last.fm page. The biographies are seperated into two. Claw from Houston, Texas who spins and produces Dubstep, and Claw from Cyprus, who spins and produces psychedelic trance.

Claw (Alan Letko)

Claw emerged in Houston, Texas in 1999 at the age of 15. He was well- received from the start making contacts with the local rave djs of the time. By the time he was 16, he was playing at some of Houston's bigger underground parties and weekly events. 

After graduating high school, he moved to Florida to pursue music as a profession and began playing at weekly events, while studying engineering. After finishing his studies at Fullsail, Claw received an internship with Ming & FS which brought him to New York where he learned the ropes of professional audio production. He also interned for Clubhouse, a larger commercial studio, which lead him to contact the well-known engineer and owner , 'Jimmy Lonesome Goodman',of Leopard Studios, where he now works. 

After a short time at Leopard the quality of original tracks has skyrocketed and begun to draw the interest of labels from across the US, UK, and parts of Europe. With new signings in 12", cd, and digital form spanning genres from drum and bass to downtempo dubstep and hiphop, expect your speakers to be invaded soon.
Booking contact: Clawdnb@gmail.com



Claw (Charalambos Pieris)

Claw aka Charalambos Pieris from Cyprus (Greece) is the mind behind the project Claw.
He was born in 1978 and has been producing since 2001.

His involvement in various electronic genres pushed him to explore the alternative and the underground paths of every genre that captured his interest. One of them is Psychedelic Trance.

The project Claw was created in 2003, and in 2004 various releases followed. His music is powerful and sensational with dark and futuristic sounds! According to Claw, most of the influences are coming from what ever happens in every day life. From the smallest to the biggest thing happening in front of him ...

CLAW

punk d-beat feminism hardcore queer band from Frederick, Maryland
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Claw">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.