Heavy metal band from Lazarevac, a small mining town in the heart of Serbia.
The band combines traditional and power metal elements in their music, with epic and doom metal influences, but sometimes wanders off into a folk territory.
Lyrics of Claymorean are mostly based on fantasy and horror fiction, although some are derrived from historic events and also religion, philosophy, life and death.

The band released two albums under the name Claymore:
“The First Dawn of Sorrow” (2003, One Records)
“Lament of Victory” (2013, SoundAge Productions). 

The first installment of the band was formed back in 1994 by its original member Vladimir Garcevic a.k.a. Vlad Invictus (guitars & vocals). 
After many line up changes during the entire first decade, the band finally recorded their debut album “The First Dawn of Sorrow” in 2003, which was released on CD and MC for a Serbian record label “One Records”. 

In 2012 a new band line up debuted on “Fabula”, a local festival in band’s hometown. Shortly after a live premiere, Claymore enters the “Midnight studio” in February 2013 and begins recording the sophomore album “Lament of Victory”. This album was published on “SoundAge Productions” on October 25th 2013.

After a successful show at “Serbian Metal Festival” in Belgrade in June 2014, band eventually changed the name to Claymorean.

Claymorean can be considered as an entirely new band, since the musical direction is very different from Claymore’s. The sound of Claymorean is more stripped down, back to the roots of power and heavy metal, minus the keyboards and symphonic elements.

In October 2014 Claymorean entered “Midnight studio” to record the first album under the new name. Recording process lasted over 5 months with the newly established line up. Claymorean released “Unbroken” on “Stormspell Records” on July 1st 2015.

The sophomore album called "Sounds from a Dying World" has been released on July 12th 2017 on “Stormspell Records”.

Claymorean played their 1st show in May 2017 as a support for Ross the Boss Band in Belgrade.

"Stormspell Records" released a limited anniversary CD compilation which, among many other bands, featured Claymorean's cover of famous Manowar song "Blood of My Enemies". 

Serbian label "Miner Records" re-released "Sounds from a Dying World" in 2019 with an additional song "Arioch, the Knight of the Swords" and a completely re-designed booklet.

In 2019 Cederick Forsberg (Rocka Rollas, Blazon Stone, Crystal Viper) composed and recorded a song for Claymorean called "Blood of the Dragon" which was released as a digital single on Bandcamp and Spotify.

In 2020 Marko Novakovic joined the band as the new drummer and Claymorean started the recording sessions for their 3rd album "Eulogy for the Gods" which is to be released in summer/autumn of 2021.

Current line up:
Dejana Garcevic - lead vocals
Vladimir Garcevic - guitars
Goran Garcevic - bass
Vladimir Novakovic - guitars
Marko Novakovic - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Claymorean">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.