There is more than one artist under the name of Cleric

1.) A four piece from Philadelphia, Cleric's music mixes elements of grindcore, avant garde composition, doom and... something else entirely? Influenced by other metal pioneers such as Meshuggah, Converge, Fantômas, and Neurosis, their music zeroes in on a level of brutality and experimentation that a single band rarely maintains even for a few seconds. In their six years since inception, Cleric has released a number of EPs and a 12" picture disk through Sound Devastation Records (UK), all of which (for their very high quality and unique & intricate sounds and artwork) have garnered praise and die-hard underground accolade. Having been around awhile, and taken a lot of shit & not given up & built themselves up internally to handle whatever bullshit this world flings their way, this band is just beginning its walk down their shining path.
(taken from Web Of Mimicry)

www.myspace.com/cleric

2.)  A Death metal band from Dallas, Texas. Formed in 2007 and went on hiatus in 2009. Originally featuring future members of Kill the Client (Chris Richardson), Baring Teeth (Andrew Hawkins), Tyrannosorceress (John Schiller and Zack Jobin) and Steel Bearing Hand (John Schiller). Released a 2 track demo in 2009 then broke up. The band reformed in late 2011 with Richardson, Schiller and Jobin returning to prior duties and Zac Christian of Tyrannosorceress taking over vocal duties, Andrew Hawkins rejoined in the fall of 2012 and 2013 the band intends to release Gratum Inferno Summer 2013

3. A Techno producer from Manchester, UK. He has released distinctive-sounding UK techno material on well-regarded labels such as Len Faki's Figure, and London-based EarToGround. Currently regularly playing around Europe at venues including Corsica Studios and Tresor, and has recently played out alongside figures the likes of Perc, Adam X, James Ruskin, Rebekah, Robert Hood and Sunil Sharpe. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cleric">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.