Climax is a name that has been used multiple times. (1) The earliest is a Bolivian rock band from the 60s and 70s. (2) a US band, formed in 1970 in LA. (6) czech hardcore punk band from Český Brod

Climax (1) was formed in the late 60s, but did not release a full album until 1974 (Gusano Mecánico). The album has been reissued with bonus tracks recorded in 1969 and 1970.

Climax (2) was formed in 1970 in Los Angeles, California. Climax consisted of Marc Gordon, Larry Cox, John Stevenson, Walter Nims, and Sonny Geraci. Their most well known hit is "Precious & Few" which reached #3 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1972. Other records that they recorded include "Life and Breath," "Child of December," the original version of "Rock n Roll Heaven," and "Walking in the Georgia Rain." 

Lead singer Sonny Geraci was a member of the 60s rock band The Outsiders, who charted with the hit "Time Won't Let Me."

Climax (3) from Lausanne, Switzerland, was formed in 2002, after Pancake died. First playing funk, they are now a garage-rock band.

Climax (4)CLIMAX (Chinese name: 高潮樂隊/高潮乐队) or sometimes known as Climax is said to be one of the "first Chinese rock bands in ages".
CLIMAX consists of popular comic illustrator and vocalist Elphonso, vocalist Gloria, guitarist Keung, bassist Kei and drummer Barry.

STYLE
CLIMAX is considered by many the leading punk rock music outfit of Hong Kong. However, its punk-style is not destructive, rather mischievous and somewhat blissful, though sometimes their acts are interactive, powerful, dynamic and "rapid-fire" Named after legendary Japanese rock group Buck-Tick's live DVD, "Climax Together", CLIMAX has been trying to embrace elements such as pop-rock, rock, rockabilly, big band, ska and traditional Chinese music into their punk sound.

BAND HISTORY
The band was first formed in 2004 with the members Elphonso, Keung, Barry, Joey and Goro.
. Right after the five members joined forces, the band established a music label, High Dynasty Ltd, setting their sights on promoting local music. At the same time, they also opened a studio where they practiced and recorded music.
Later that year, CLIMAX started to perform in a number of live shows. Their dynamic and energetic live playing received encouraging feedback from rock fanatics. In the same year, they were picked as one of the performing bands of Rockit Hong Kong Music Festival, playing alongside international acts such as Aqualung and The Cooper Temple Clause.
In November 2004, they released their self-financed debut single The Punk Night Club in Hong Kong and Japan. In February the following year, the band's song Punk Rock New Year hit #16 spot, a rendition of a famous traditional Chinese New Year tune. Since then, CLIMAX had more opportunities to play in large-scale shows and share the stage with world-class names such as Tat Ming Pair and Denise Ho.
In 2006, vocalist Gloria and bassist Kei joined after Goro and Joey left the band. The band then put together their album Rock My Planet. It is the first studio recording of the band after they signed to Hong Kong-based international music distributor LOVE DA RECORDS in early 2007.
The new album includes Punk Rock New Year, the rockabilly single Start From Radio, which climbed up to #14 on the Ultimate Music Pop Chart and stayed on the chart for three weeks, and the rock ballad Around The World In 80 Days, the first song featuring Gloria.

Climax (5) is a Japanese punk band in the Shinjuku area. You can hear an interview and some of a live performance at the Nikkei Sindex.



Climax (6) was formed in 2002 in Český Brod (Czech Republic) and play hardcore punk and Oi!
info: http://www.myspace.com/climaxpunx , http://bandzone.cz/climax , http://climax.wz.cz/
interview (in czech): http://www.punk.cz/index.asp?menu=1111&record=7274

Climax (7) Dutch hiphop group (rapper Lucky and producer Ashi).

Climax (8) German hardtrance duo Martin Sroka and Rainer Gubba

Climax (9) Aruban soca band

Climax (10) Slovenian rock band from Ajdovščina founded in 2008, recorded their first album Kalejdoskop in 2012. https://soundcloud.com/climax-wajdusna <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Climax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.