Climax Golden Twins are an American experimental group. Formed in Seattle, Washington in 1993, Climax Golden Twins is a duo consisting of Robert Millis and Jeffery Taylor. Each of their albums concocts a surreal lo-fi collage of drones, electronic noise, voices, and field recordings. Occasional members and collaborators have included engineer Scott Colburn, percussionist Dave Abramson, A Frames architect Erin Sullivan, and drummer John Vallier. Their musical output spans a majority of modern media formats. 

Their debut was the double 7" Climax Golden Twins (Fire Breathing Turtle, 1994), but the first mature statements of their aesthetic were the cassettes Climax Golden Hiss (Union Pole, 1995) and Eyeless Fabrication (EF, 1995), their first full-length album. The 23 fragments of Imperial Household Orchestra (Scratch, 1996), recorded with eight guests, offer a good overview of their "concrete" techniques in assembling demented free-form jamming. 1997 saw the release of a four-part series of albums comprised of live recordings.

At the turn of the century, the group concocted Dream Cut Short in the Mysterious Clouds (Anomalous, 2000), Rock Album (Fire Breathing Turtle, 2000), a set of 20 brief fragments that employ rock instruments and rhythms in a context similar to progressive rock (the closest references being Fred Frith and God Is My Co-Pilot); Session 9 (Milan, 2001), a haunting movie soundtrack that employs instruments in the style of the classical avant-garde as well as the usual arsenal of samples, and shifts the emphasis towards abstract soundsculpting; and Lovely (Anomalous, 2002), a 62 minute long quiet, drifting ambient piece.

The combo calmed down considerably on Highly Bred and Sweetly Tempered (North East Indie, 2004), a collection of atmospheric adagios ("Dead People"), bluesy meditations ("Billy McGee McGaw"), surreal chamber music ("Get Fat"), and aural dadaist puzzles ("Imperial Household Orchestra"). Climax Golden Twins (Conspiracy, 2006) contains a side-long collage of 78rpm samples and a series of jams ranging from garage rock to psychedelic trip. whereas 5 Cents a Piece (Abduction, 2007),sounded like a compromise between their wild avant-garde side and their more prosaic rock side. 

The core duo of Robert Millis and Jeffery Taylor have collaborated on other projects including the VICTROLA FAVORITES cassette series (Fire Breathing Turtle 1996-2000) and book (Dust-to-Digital, 2008), Messenger Girls Trio (with Sir Richard Bishop and David Knott) and AFCGT, a collaboration with the A Frames. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Climax+Golden+Twins">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.