1) Clone is an indie rock band based in Helsinki, Finland. Their debut album "Fuzzy Times, Fuzzy Spaces" was released in the beginning of 2007. Their music is a mix of fuzzy landscapes and straight forward indie rock. Preceding the debut album Clone has produced several EPs, of which Superachiever, released in 2004, was chosen “best of the year” by most Finnish music media, including Soundi, Rumba, Noise and desibeli.net. 

2) Clone is also the veteran Canadian producer and DJ Gordon Brown, based in the nation’s capital, Ottawa. He discovered psychedelic trance in 1996 and was forever transformed. Gord was motivated to explore producing his own style of psytrance after hearing Matt Boom play in 1998, and has released new material on various labels, as recently as 2009. 

3) Clone is also the former name of Swedish death metal band The Bereaved.

4) Clone is an experimental artist from Japan, also known as Stone.  His music can be downloaded for free at http://clone.xrea.jp/stone/

5) Clone is a 4-piece punk/ska outfit from Durban, South Africa. Formed in 2004, this energetic foursome changed the landscape of Durban’s alternative music scene with their unique blend of inventive elaborate rock. With a loyal fan base that bands twice as established would kill for and a stage presence which exemplifies their intricately crafted personality. The band consisted of William (vocals), Malcolm (guitar), Pauline (bass) and Rob (drums).  The released an EP, Is This Yours? with some jolly tunes.  The band disbanded and a new line-up was put in place (circa November 2008) to terrorise the nice jah-fearing folk of scUmbilo. This line-up was: William (vocals), Dean (guitars), Phil (Bass) and Paul (Drums). The band is currently missing, presumed having day-jobs.

6) Clone is an original glam band from Vancouver BC Canada. Lovers of all things 70's glam... David Bowie, T Rex, The New York Dolls, Iggy Pop, Sweet, Queen... Sparkle and Shine! Theur debut EP, CLONE is available on https://cloneband.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Clone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.