There are multiple artists named Closer.

1) Closer is a three-piece heavy emo / post-hardcore formed in Brooklyn, NY in 2016.

Ryann Slauson, Griffin Irvine, and Matthew Van Asselt had all been playing together and separately in various other projects for many years, but this is the first joint songwriting venture the three have undertaken together. The band began when Matt and Ryann ran into each other outside of a practice space and made a spur of the moment plan to play together later that day. The first closer song was made up on the spot. Griffin joined on shortly after and the three quickly released a demo and began playing shows. 

Their debut LP was released in 2017 on Lauren Records, Conditions Records, and Middle Man Records.

2) Closer is a Melodic Death Metal band from Hagfors, Värmland in Sweden. They used to go under the name Withered. Before closing a record deal, Closer was named Sweden's best unsigned band by Close-Up Magazine. On October 24th 2008, Closer released their debut album, 'A Darker Kind of Salvation'.

Members:
Andreas Melberg - Vocals
Tobias Persson - Drums
Per Bergquist - Guitar

Previous members:
Björn Ahlqvist - Bass
Jonas Skoog - Guitar

3) Closer is Roel Kessels as guitarist and lead vocalist, and Thomas van Geelen on the cello, and background vocals. 

Closer started out as a dream of singer/songwriter Roel Kessels. After seeing the movie Closer, with Damien Rice's song 'The Blower's Daughter' accompanying the ending, he got inspired to enhance his music with bowed strings. He started writing and playing alongside cellist Thomas van Geelen. They had their first gig together with Lotte, who plays the violin. Lotte still plays with them every now and then, but most of the time you'll find them playing as a duo. They started performing at small venues in Tilburg and Breda, and even on some small festivals in Breda (Troubadourfestival and Bluesfestival). 

http://www.comegetcloser.com

4) Closer is a Swedish progressive rock band. Closer was founded in 2004 by Joachim Dahlberg, Alx Reuterskiöld and Magnus Åsard. With Jocke Göthberg (ex-Marduk, Dimension Zero) behind the drums, they recorded a self-titled, three-song demo the same year. Shortly after that, Jocke left the band. With no replacement, Closer was set in rest mode for almost a year, while members focused on other projects.

In the beginning of 2005, Closer got a new start when two new band members were recruited: Jesper Örtegren and Olle Cederborg. With new inspiration, the band started writing new songs, and the idea of a thematic EP was slowly coming to life. After intense writing and rehearsals during the spring, Closer entered the studio in August to record Tokpela EP. In October, the self produced album was mastered at Cutting Room in Stockholm by Thomas Eberger (Opeth, The Hives).

5) Closer was formed in 2003 by Low (vocals) and Guillaume (guitar, piano). Closer's line up remained unchanged until September 2004, when completed by Cisco (bass) and finally Etienne (guitar).

Influenced by visual kei, Closer's first auto-produced CD, 'Mind Mess', was released January 20th 2006.

6) Closer is an indie rock band from Greece, a part of the Athens indie scene from 1997-2000. During that time they produced two albums, 'In the Market' and 'Suddenly Comes'. They reformed in 2007 and released a self-titled album.

Members: 
John Ververis (guitar)
Vag (bass, vocals)
Andreas Pappas (vocals)
Andreas Ioannou (guitar)
Thanos Michailides (drums) 
Vasso Nikolopoulou(violin).

7) Closer is a pop rock band from Ames, IA.

8) Closer, sometimes tagged as Closer (SC), are a mellow rock trio.
http://www.myspace.com/listentocloser

9) Closer is an electro-industrial project from Liechtenstein.
http://www.myspace.com/musicofcloser

10) Closer were a UK band made up of Dan Simmons and James Rosen releasing their debut album Tin Man in 2000 under their label Closer Recordings.
The album consisted of 9 tracks:
 - 1)  michael from leicester
 - 2) Ghost
 - 3) Chinese Whispers
 - 4) Ammonia
 - 5) New year's resolutions
 - 6) blue heaven
 - 7) 2.7.99
 - 8) trips over sunset
 - 9) snowblind <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Closer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.