Sons and daughter of Peoria, Illinois; CLOUD BURIAL rumbles in like a raging storm born from the heaviest side of music; cultivated with the raw emotional fury of searing amps, thunderous percussion, sweat, wood, steel, and strained lungs; combined with plenty of atmospheric ambiance, lush soundscapes, dripping analog waves, and guitars that float through your head and resonate like wind chimes; then constructs movements and songs with the sensibility gathered from dust left in the trails of independent thoughtful songwriting that stretches back for decades and decades. While it’s difficult with good reason to pin them to a certain genre, the members collectively cull from that something inside music that explodes and stays inside your heart and mind; which has existed in every form of music from improvisational jazz to modern scorching high gain guitar riffs. It all becomes relevant and important here.

Cloud Burial was formed in 2007 by Nate Lucas, Aaron Austin, and Chris Wheeler.

In 2008 the band recorded a 4 song demo, contributed a song to the 2nd Thinker Thought Records Peoria-based compilation, If It Plays…, went on a Midwest tour, and took part in Peoria’s “Under the Covers” fest where they covered Earth’s Pentastar album in it’s entirety with the help of Christopher Bennet of Minsk, and Gabe Madrigal of Latex Nuns.Shortly thereafter, the band parted ways, but reformed in 2009 without Nate who went on to play with Chris in Evil Eye HoneyTree. Austin Vice, also formerly of Latex Nuns, and Brenda Burger joined in late 2009. In late 2010 Jeremiah Lambert joined as full time bass player.

In 2010 Cloud Burial released it’s first EP “Impious Lamps”. Christopher Bennet was again enlisted, this time to fill in on bass guitar for the sessions. The band made their way down to SXSW, and played shows throughout the year alongside bands such as Dark Castle, US Christmas, Black Cobra, Minsk, Del Rey, Junius, Raise the Red Lantern, Battlefields, Killer Moon, White Mice, Lost Coves, Beast in the Field, and many more.

Between 2011-2012 Cloud Burial changed members yet again. The final Lineup was Aaron Austin, Jeremiah Lambert, BIlly Turner, and Kevin Rendleman. After Kevin moved to Chicago to pursue his work as drum tech for a multitude of bands, the remaining members decided to call it quits.

As of 2012-2013 Aaron has joined Minsk full time. 
Jeremiah and Aaron have also begun a new project. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cloud+Burial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.