There are multiple acts charting as Clover:

1. Clover was an American country rock band formed in Mill Valley, California in 1967. They are best known as the backup band for Elvis Costello's 1977 debut album My Aim Is True (recorded in the UK), and for members later forming or joining more successful acts, including Huey Lewis and the News, The Doobie Brothers, Toto, and Lucinda Williams. Clover disbanded in 1978. Three members reunited for two concerts backing Costello in San Francisco on November 8, 2007.

2. Founded in 2011, Clover is a 3-piece sludge, and hardcore influenced metal band from Kingston, New York. To date, they have 4 releases; a 4-song ep titled Sea of Red in 2011, a split with Stairwell Sea in 2012, a split with Afterhours also in 2012, and a full length titled Vultures in 2014. All releases are available at http://thebandisclover.bandcamp.com/ For more information, visit https://www.facebook.com/Cloverband or http://cloverband.tumblr.com/

Members:
Michael Guthaus - Vocals/Bass
Anthony Mackey - Guitar
Steve Pasqua - Drums

3. Clover is an indiepop band formed in 2001 in Jakarta Indonesia with the line up Ms. Tia in vocals and guitars, Ms. Nanda in guitars, Ms. Hana in bass, Ms. Tania in keyboards, and Mrs. Zara in drums. In 2003, Clover released a debut e.p. called Prelude to Departure which is released as a gift for Ms. Hana who’d like to study in China for about a year. After, Mrs. Hana came home, Clover re-released the e.p plus 2 new songs. 

Right now, Clover''s full length album has already released and available in the record stores. It's released under the label Paviliun Records. The first single from the album is also available for downloads. Not just that, the single itself was remixed by Miya of Microtone, a DJ from Japan.

You can also get Untill Whenever album in i-tunes released under Japanese record, Soundandlife, along with several remixes. 

4. Clover (from Salt Lake City) - In 1993 Jamen Brooks, Mitch Glende, and Brant Paulsen began to write and then record Clover's first album, Tanglewood. By the time it was recorded--a year later--Clover decided it might be time to play somewhere besides their basement. It didn't take long for the band to gain a cult-like following, despite their reluctance to seek the limelight. Even though they were technically a fledgling group, their folksy-rocking sound was so well developed that their fan base more than doubled at every show. The smaller venues missed their chance to feature the trio within a year. By the time their second album, Sun, was released in the summer of 1995 they were consistently selling out their own headlining shows in clubs that normally turn their noses up to anything but national acts. With Sun on the market their radio play also boomed. Between the two albums the group produced four radio singles that all reached either top five or number one most requested status on X96 (KXRK).

Clover released a third album in 1998 called New Grand Silver. The lead singer, Jamen Brooks, released a solo album Sleepyhead. 

5. French Trip Hop Band formed by Charlotte and Garin. Charlotte and Garin met in February 2001, but Garin was studying in Grenoble while Charlotte was living in Paris, so they wrote their songs together using the Internet. Thanks to the Internet again, Laurent Collat discovered them and said he would help them record their first album if Undercover was in... and so they did. In October 2004, Undercover released Clover's first album "World's End Lane". 

6. Before either of these was the 1970's country rock band which included Huey Lewis and which backed Elvis Costello on his album "My Aim is True"

7. A Japanese Neo Bossa Nova act.

8. The vocalist from the korean indie band Standing EGG with his solo work.

9. Project hip hop group from Korea consisting of Tyfoon, Eun Ji Won and Gilme. Correct tag: 클로버

10. An indie band from Vigo, Spain with 4 releases: Modern Disgraces (2009), The Stolen Beats (2011), A Summer In Your Bedroom (2012) and Shinrai (2012).

11. A 2020 four-member P-pop idol girl group from the Philippines. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Clover">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.