A new German Melodic Metal outfit is ready to hit the streets and to follow the tradition of european influenced melodic heavy metal. CLUSTERHEAD, a four piece band hailing from Regensburg will release their debut album called “Times Of No Trust”  May 30th, 2008. 
Their debut album is filled with hook-laden, catchy melodies and huge choruses, performed by throughout brilliant and experienced musicians that don´t try to follow any current trends. They just want to deliver what they have been influenced by in their youth and what many melodic metal fans are searching for: pinpoint metal power blended with mighty melodies and big vocals! 

INFO

In 2005 CLUSTERHEAD was formed by 4 musicians who had one single goal: 
delivering the kind of music to the people they were influenced by from their 
early days on. 
Having grown up with the classic sound of their idols such as Judas Priest, 
Scorpions, Iron Maiden etc. singer Rene Brandt, guitarist Frank Stadlbauer, 
bassist Andreas Meyer and drummer Ruediger Tonn are following their roots 
with their debut album “Times Of No Trust”.

CLUSTERHEAD´s sound is driven by a tight working rhythm section, elobarated 
guitar work and crowned by Rene´s warm and melodic voice. Tracable melodies
and huge choruses are trademarks to the band and although their sound can be 
described as melodic metal it´s not limited to just reach fans of this genre. 
Songs like “Poisened”, “Deep In The Night” or the balladesque “Ghosts” are fit 
for the playlists of every rock radio station. 

CLUSTERHEAD already released 3 EP´s, which have been welcomed by the press, comparing the band with genre heroes such as BONFIRE, AXEL RUDI PELL and PINK CREAM 69 although they sound a good deal harder than the mentioned ones. 

They also gained intensive live experience by continously playing regional and national venues. Just a few weeks ago CLUSTERHEAD proved to be an awesome live band by supporting US power metal heroes CAGE in southern Germany and thus surely could add lots of new fans to their constantly growing fanbase.

Band pics, cover artwork, logos, product info available for download at www.artistworxx.de
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Clusterhead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.