There are many different bands/artists called Cobra:

1. a U.S. hard rock/metal band founded 1982 with a single album release: First Strike. Notable songs off that album were "Blood On Your Money", "Midnight Machine", "What Love Is" and "First Strike". Vocalist Jimi Jamison joined Survivor soon after Cobra disbanded in 1984 and went on to become one of the most recognizable voices of melodic rock throughout the '80s and '90s (including the theme song to 'Baywatch') and is still making music and touring today. Members: Jimi Jamison (vocals), Mandy Meyer (guitar), Jack Holder (guitar), Tommy Keiser (bass), Jeff Klaven (drums).

2. a Japanese Oi! Punk Band. It is regarded as the earliest Japanse Oi! Punk band.

3. a band from West Virginia, United States.

4. a NWOBHM band from the United Kingdom. 

5. a well-established ragga/dancehall artist, better known as Mad Cobra, is sometimes referred to (and scrobbled...) as Cobra

6. an all-female Chinese rock band, called 眼镜蛇 has its English name translated into Cobra.

7. A short-lived early seventies rock band from The Netherlands, which was one many outlets for guitarist/singer Rob Vunderink (b. 1950)  in this era. Vunderink played in a string of little known bands such as Counts, Island, Cobra, Centaur and The Hammer, as well as some rather succesful ones, notably Diesel ('Sausalito Nights' charted in the U.S. and Canada), Vitesse en Kayak. Best known singles with Cobra (they released only four): 'The War Will Soon Be Over (My Love)' (1971) and 'So Dissatisfied' (1972).

8. a Chilean band

9. a speed metal band from the United Kingdom.

10. an Oakland, CA, United States rapper, known for his song "Sliden".

11. a late '80s heavy metal band from Berlin, Germany, who shared the 'Kleeblatt Nr. 22 - Hard & Heavy' album with MCB and Plattform.

12. a heavy metal band from Peru formed in 2005.

13. a rock/pop band from Myanmar

14. a French band

15. an early 2000s indie rock band from Milwaukee, U.S.A.

16. a metal band from Spain's Basque Country with some hardcore influences

17. Viper the Rapper's son: https://www.last.fm/music/Viper <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cobra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.