Coda is a name used by 15 bands:
1. A chiptune artist and MIDI sequencer
2. A hard rock band from Mexico
3. A Live Dubstep group from London, England
4. A neo-classical band from Australia
5. A post-hardcore band from Canada
6. A rock band from the United States
7. A jazz rock band from Spain
8. A hard rock band from the Czech Republic
9. An alternative rock band from Northern Ireland
10. A blues rock band from the United Kingdom
11. A symphonic rock band from the Netherlands
12. A fusion band from South Africa
13. A heavy metal band from Poland
14. A musician from Japan
15. A pop-rock band from Lithuania

chiptune coda: http://coda.s3m.us
coda is a solo chiptune musician and video game composer who has been releasing music online since 2004. He originally gained popularity through remixes and flash videos such as "shiilol/Longcat's Song" (a remix of Wind's Nocturne) and "Chocolate Rain 8-bit". Recently, he has been releasing albums with surasshu under the collaborative name Yogurtbox, as well as free music under the Ubiktune label.
----------------------------------------
Mexico CODA:
Coda is a Rock en Español band from Mexico, formed in 1989. The band had a lot of success in the early 90s, releasing four albums in the meantime. In the late 90s, the band suffered several line-up remaining together through them. However, they disbanded around 2000.

Coda was formed in 1989 by Chucho Esquivel, Salvador "Chava" Aguilar and Toño Ruíz with the intention to do quality rock music. Some time later, Zitto Bremont and Diego Benyure joined them. In 1990, they released an EP called Tiempo Perfecto that was received poorly. Shortly after, Diego and Zitto left the band, and were replaced with David Melchor and Allán Pérez respectively.

This line-up signed with Sony in 1993 releasing Enciéndelo that same year. The album managed to put the band in the radar, but it wasn't until 1995, when Veinte Para Las Doce elevated the band to star-status. In 1997, they followed it with Nivel 3.

In 1998, Aguilar left the band and was replaced with Eduardo Contreras (formerly of Tercer Acto). In 1999, Allán and Chucho amicably parted ways with the band and were replaced with Fito Cedillo and Andrés Mura. However, the band disbanded shortly after.
---------------------------------------
Live Dubstep Coda from London, England:
http://www.facebook.com/codamusicuk
http://soundcloud.com/codamusicuk
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyDq1mBLKkQ
http://www.codamusicuk.com/

Coda are a 5-piece live dubstep band from London, and have been producing music together since September 2009, after the members met at the Academy of Contemporary Music.

In the short time they’ve been together, Coda have consistently pushed their own boundaries, raising the bar with each new production. Their sets fuse together the raw energy of a traditional band performance with the flow, excitement and hype of a DJ set.
----------------------------------------
UK Coda:
http://www.myspace.com/codarock
----------------------------------------
CODA (Northern Ireland):
http://www.myspace.com/codaonline
http://www.codaonline.co.uk

Alternative rock band CODA formed in late 2004 and have gained a strong foothold within the Northern Ireland music scene. They play a mixture of melodic power driven riffs complemented by energetic female vocals. CODA recorded in August 2005 and are gaining bigger support slots with bands such as Sub Pop band Sleater-Kinney, who they supported in August 2005 in Spring and Airbrake in Belfast. CODA took a short break to write new material and are relaunching in 2007 with more new songs, new CD, new merchandise, and gigs further afield.
----------------------------------------
Czech Coda:
http://bandzone.cz/coda
----------------------------------------
American Coda:
http://www.myspace.com/originalcoda

"Coda" is defined as a concluding musical passage that stands alone from the rest of the piece. Brent Coleman and Patrick Kane Damphier, founding members of the Nashville-based band Coda, knew they had come up with a name that described their musical style perfectly; something that stands out from the rest.

Coda is exactly what the modern music community needs: something original that has no boundaries. Their songs are initially written on acoustic guitar or piano, enabling them to combine their unique melodic sense with Damphier's thought-provoking lyrics and vocals. Coleman's classically trained guitar, blended with heavy electric riffs, precise harmonies, and tasteful, dynamic arrangements, define the Coda sound. "Their music is enriched with the kind of musicianship that a majority of bands never even grasp," says Nathan Cougill of NashvilleRock.net.

Coda's first live performances came during May of 2002 in support of their initial studio recording, From the Beginning, and released on their own independent label, Gize Records. These early performances consisted of Damphier and Coleman playing stripped down versions of the record on acoustic and classical guitars, but quickly evolved into something both of them wanted to pursue further in the context of a band. October of 2002 was Coda's first full band show with the addition of drummer Jerry Roe and bassist Chris Van Belkom. Over the following months, they quickly gained a stellar fan base in and around Nashville. By the end of 2002, Coda had sold well over 1,000 copies of From the Beginning to become Tower Records' best selling local artist of the year. In 2003, the members of Coda continued to build momentum in support of their debut album by packing out local venues 3rd & Lindsley, The End, Blue Sky Court, and Exit/In. The popularity of the first album motivated Coda to once again enter the studio with the challenge of creating more new music. The finished product is Empires Fall, slated for release December 18, 2003.

Coda enjoys a great deal of success today, yet the formation of Coda's talent was a long time in the making. Founding members Brent Coleman and Patrick Kane Damphier began playing music together as friends at the age of ten. Patrick played drums, and Brent played guitar in a number of bands over the years before they finally decided to create something that was their own, thus laying the groundwork for Coda. Brent received a Bachelors Degree in classical guitar in the spring of 2003 at Middle Tennessee State University, and is currently on full scholarship at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, TX pursuing a Masters Degree in classical guitar. Patrick Kane Damphier will graduate with a degree in Music Business at Middle Tennessee State University in May, 2004. He has done extensive studio work over the past six years working for County Q Productions in Nashville and independently producing numerous albums, including both of Coda's studio efforts. Former lead singer of successful rock band Habbit, Chris Van Belkom brings great vocals and musical ability to Coda as the bassist for live shows. Drummer Jerry Roe, although only nineteen years old, signed his first drum endorsement with Mapex drums in October of 2003.

The members of Coda are not only accomplishes musicians, they are avid music fans. As such, they often ask themselves the same question all fans ask, "Where can we hear something different?" Listen to Empires Fall and From the Beginning. Coda has found an answer.
----------------------------------------

Drum & Bass DJ from UK/Vienna.
----------------------------------------
South African CODA:
http://www.codamusic.co.za/
http://www.myspace.com/codamusicsa

Cape Town-based fusion band CODA’s diversity - a mix of Kwaito, House and Dance with influences of Classical - has resulted in a new style of South African music that appeals to audiences from Soweto to Paarl, from Gugulethu to Bloemfontein and from Dubai to the Seychelles.

CODA is a unique collaboration between vocalist Yolanda Yawa, electric cellist Carol Thorns, saxophonist Judy Brown, electric violinist Gabriella Rivera, dancer and backing vocalist, Amanda Martins, and House DJ Nick Matthews.

The group has performed at numerous high profile events and international events, including concerts (Jazzathon, Jazz on the Rocks, Home For All, Cape Town International Jazz Festival, Woman of the Year, Nederburg Concert Series, Paul Cluver Forest Amphitheatre), fashion shows (Cape Town Fashion Week, Durban Fashion Week), sports events (J&B Met, Durban July) launch parties and government events. Internationally CODA has performed in the Seychelles (New Year 2006), Dubai (May 2007) and Zimbabwe, Victoria Falls (March 2006). CODA has been invited to perform again in Dubai in March 2007.
----------------------------------------
Australian CODA:
http://www.codaplanet.com
http://profile.myspace.com/codaplanet

We are a five piece band based in Sydney Australia. We started out in 1994. Our line up includes violin, viola, keyboards, vibraphone, accordian, drums, bass and electronics. We also have guest vocal appearances. CODA's live show is an uplifting cinematic musical experience that will refresh your senses. Since 1994, CODA has made a name for themselves as one of the most intriguing and creative outfits around. Their sound is uniquely their own, incorporating strings, vibraphone, drums, bass, keys, and electronics. Be prepared for aural assaults oozing with lush textures, highly energetic rhythms and uplifting melodies. CODA’s music is a feast for your ears and your eyes, infinitely difficult to pigeon hole – theirs is a music that surfs the boundaries between electronic, rock and classical music. CODA’s history since 1994 has seen them perform in many diverse contexts, from festival stages and venues at the Sydney Festival, the Adelaide Festival, Brisbane Powerhouse, Adelaide Space Theatre, Opera House Studio, Bangkok International Festival of Music and Dance, Java Jazz Festival, the Big Day Out, Woodford Folk Festival and the Great Escape to name just a few. CODA have been nominated for 2 ARIA awards for best album, their music has been featured in film and fashion events for Akira Isogawa, ABC TV, Wayne Cooper and David Jones. CODA also perform as part of larger scale events, most recently working with the physical theatre group ERTH for an outdoor presentation on the Parramatta River in November 2007. If you wanna buy some of our tunes, we are on itunes too, or head to vitamin.net.au.
----------------------------------------
Polish Coda:
http://www.coda.edl.pl/

 The band was started in 1996 by Oygen (Gienek Popanda) and Apach (Marek Górecki). At the very beginning the band didn't have a name and the boys played rock. They were inspired by Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden, Deep Purple that's why Oygen decided to call his band Coda (one of Deep Purple's album) and the band has been known by the name since then.

The first years of the band's existence was defined by constant line up changes so it is very hard now to enumerate all the people who were in the band at those times. On the other hand those people usually quit after a short time. The rehearsals took place in Tarnowskie Góry in workshops (sorry, w can't tell where exactly because the owners weren't aware we used their buildings). Finally it came the time for live performances. These were usually competitions where the band could collect experience. During the early years the band's music was gradually changing. It was only in 1998 when the line up solidified. The band also decided to rehearse in Miejski Ośrodek Kultury where they have rehearsed until now. The line up was: Eugeniusz Popanda (guitar), Tomasz Kocyba (vocal), Adam Jędraszek (bass), Przemek Antonik (guitar), Marek Górecki (drums). A year later that line up recorded their first MCD "Curse". On that record you can find 7 songs written by Coda. The same year the band performed during Gwarki in Tarnowskie Góry.

Between 2000 and 2002 there appeared problems with the line up but Oygen and Apach were too determined to stop playing. In spring 2002 the band was joined by Sebastian Blabuś (guitar), Zbyszek Nowak (vocal), Adrian Zwardoń (bass) and Piotr Zwardoń (keyboards). After six months Sebastian and Zbyszek left the band because they had a vision of creating something else but this is a topic for another story... The same year Marcin Szołtysik (guitar) joined the band and in spring 2003 Coda had a new charismatic vocalist Wojtek Małota. It was a breakthrough and the boys started a new chapter, new songs, lots of gigs in pubs, clubs and during bigger events. In spring 2005 Piotrek (keyboard) left the band.

In June 2005 there appeared a Marcin Marszałek aka Cinos who wanted to organize a concert where Coda was to perform. The show took place in Zacisze, a bar in Tarnowskie Góry. During the gig Coda recorded their live album. Later it turned out that it was not the only concert organized by Cinos for Coda so after a few months he became the band's manager. Coda had many chances to perform eg. during METAL EXPANSION II in 2005 in CK Wiatrak Club in Zabrze. In December Coda started recording their new material in MaQ RECORDS in Wojkowice. It could be done because the band had earned some money playing gigs but also thanks to some sponsors. At the end of December surprisingly attacked Christmas, everybody was happy and they wished one another Merry Christmas... New Yaer!!! - the unfrorgetable party at the manager's place. In February 2006 Coda finished recording their new stuff and in March the album "Najemnik" (eng. Mercenary) was out. With their new record Coda played a couple of gigs and everywhere they were welcomed warmly by the audience.

On 20th May during rock competition called "Grejfest" Coda won the third place. In 2006 and 2007 Coda performed many times with such bands as Dżem, Mech, Monstrum, T.Love. Now Coda is working on their new stuff.

Coda 2008:
Wojtek Małota - vocal
Marcin Szołtysik - guitar
Adrian Zwardoń - bass
Eugeniusz Popanda - guitar
Mateusz Nowak - drums 

Canadian CODA: 
http://www.myspace.com/codatheband
----------------------------------------
CODA Japanese musician:
"Bloody Stream" (stylized as "BLOODY STREAM") is the debut single by a Japanese artist known only as "Coda". The song, written by Saori Codama and composed by Toshiyuki O'mori, is used as the second opening theme for the 2012 anime adaptation of the 1987 manga JoJo's Bizarre Adventure, representing its second arc Battle Tendency. The song is noted as having an emotional and fashionable tune, with the husky yet charming voice of the song's unknown vocalist adding a further stylish nature to the song as a whole. Jun Yamamoto of Billboard said that he felt that the horns and funky sound of the song compliment the story of Joseph Joestar and his battle against the Pillar Men Esidisi, Wamuu, and Kars, further mesmerizing him and drawing him into a "bizarre world".

In its first week of sales, "Bloody Stream" sold 21 thousand units, reaching the number 4 spot on the Oricon's Weekly Album Charts. It also reached number 7 on Billboard's Japan Hot 100, 3 on the Japan Hot Single Sales chart, and number 2 on the Japan Hot Animation chart. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Coda">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.