In late 2010 an idea was born between Paul Logue (Eden’s Curse) and James Murray (bass) to put together a Melodic Metal band of talented musicians that were predominately Scottish based. 

Scots-based keyboards player Scott McLean (Falloch, Concept Of Time) and drummer John Clelland (The Jack) were recruited but the net was widened to include young guitar virtuoso Ben Randall (ex-Power Quest) whom Logue had previously managed and rated extremely highly. 

"It was all about finding the right musical vehicle for Ben" stated Logue. "This kid is technically one of the most astute guitarists I have ever come across, yet his ability to produce stunning melodies will embarrass the most seasoned of players. Ben is a massive part of the way this band sounds" . 

The final piece of the jigsaw was the addition of a top drawer vocalist: experienced Brazilian singer Gus Monsanto (ex-Adagio / Timo Tolkki's Revolution Renaissance / Takara) who completed the line up and Code of Silence was born.

"I met Gus at MelodicRockFest 2 in Elgin, Illinois when Eden's Curse performed there. I was very familiar with his work, with Timo Tolkki (Stratovarius) and especially due to my close links with David Readman (Pink Cream 69 / Voodoo Circle / ex-Adagio), whom Gus replaced in Adagio."

"He is a very personable guy and a fantastic vocalist. I immediately thought of him and made my approach and he jumped at the chance. I think we both had a good feeling about working with each other, and we were both proved right" added Logue.

The band's debut album - 'Dark Skies Over Babylon' - was released in Japan by Rubicon Music in January 2013 and in Europe by Mausoleum Records in February 2013.  It's a highly accessible mix of hard and melodic rock, fused with metal and progressive flavours.  

The album has been called "simply stunning" and "stellar" by the music press.

The band's first promotional video 'Sky Is Falling Down' attracted in excess of 200k YouTube views in the first month of release.

The video is available at their website ( www.codeofsilence.co.uk ) together with an introduction and track-by-track album analysis.

   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Code+Of+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.