Genre – Death Metal /Grit Grind 

Members :
Big Gore - 8string/Vokillz
Merle Bomber - 7string/vokillz

About:

  Coffin Syrup is a Death Metal band from Charleston, South Carolina founded in 2003. 
 
  Coffin Syrup executes a wide range of guttural and death metal vocals in their songs, along with devastating drums, and brutal guitar attack. Influenced by almost every corner of the metal genre, they incorporate elements of many styles of metal into their songs. Death Metal, Black Metal, Grind, Slam and Blast, Technical, Progressive, and Brutal Death Metal elements are all present in their songs among many other styles. Their skilled musicianship, expert vocals, and superior songwriting abilities have won them a rabid and dedicated fan base. Their crushing stage presence has made them infamous for stirring up vicious mosh-pits during live performances, sometimes resulting in varying degrees of personal injury.
 
Lineup:

  Coffin Syrup’s current lineup is founding member Rob Emery “816 60R3” on main vokillz and 8 string guitar, and  Justin Sturdivant “Merle Bomber” on vokillz and 7 string guitar 
History :
 
  Coffin Syrup released a debut demo, “Assplosion” in 2003, and a rare full length album, “Putting the Gore Back in Gourmet” in 2005. In 2008 they recorded and released their most popular album to date, the “Caprarachnid” EP, in The Torture Kitchen Studio with Antifoniq Records founder, Dwayne “The Reign of Pain” Greenhill. In April 2009 they toured Europe with Requim, Nordor, Warpath, & Abortification in support of Lividity on their "Fisting Europe" tour. In November 2012 they played the "Hammer of Gore European Tour 2012" with Bloodsoaked, Sacrificial Slaughter, Gorgy, and Mangled Atrocity.
They are currently writing and recording material for their full length “The Unique Magic of Rigor Mortis" to be released in spring of 2013.
 
Discography:
 
“Assplosion” EP 2003
“Putting the Gore Back in Gourmet” rare full length 2005
“Caprarachnid” EP 2008
“The Unique Magic of Rigor Mortis" – coming Spring of 2012
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Coffin+Syrup">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.