The first bite of the fruit is always bitter but what wonders it doth hold. A serpent of fire, a Luciferion enlightenment, a thundering rage of angels, a will bound and set apart, the assertion of the will, the very action to obtain a truth. Music, Spirit and enlightenment at all costs...


Coffin for Mary is a musical project originally from the dark swamp lands of Louisiana, upon recently completing the recording of  "Of the Rage of Angels"  the founder, guitarist and vocalist of the project Robert  (Tristan) Cook relocated to Medellin, Colombia and will soon be relocating to the UK in the fall of 2011.

go here for more Music, Artwork and Information:

http://www.facebook.com/coffinformary
http://www.reverbnation.com/coffinformary
http://www.myspace.com/coffinformary
http://www.youtube.com/user/FireSerpent999

Quotes...
"Every time I have met death and he so lovingly deny´s me initiation into his mysteries...this is the essence of this music to me, a true exercise in spirituality, transcendence and free will a existential scapegoat or a sacred vessel to simply express."

"Enlightenment through free will to walk darker paths to find a way back to god"

Description:

Dark progressive metal with atmospheric, black metal, ambient and psychedelic elements
when we began we had an ever controlling Gothic influence but through the evolution and maturing of my musicianship I have long since shed those early infatuations, Now the influences range from Progressive rock/metal, ambient, folk, black metal,neo classical rock, Eastern music, psychedelic rock, blues, thrash and power metal. the old goth rock influences are barely there on the new songs, I found myself really bored and unchallenged when I was all into the goth metal scene so I had transcend and embrace my earlier influences, the ones that stay with you all your life and never fail to inspire you. Im really not a fan of gothic music anymore, its way too electronic, dance oriented and the simplicity is just too boring and sometimes superficial not what it was in the 80's. I actually hate some of the earlier crap goth industrial music we recorded in the 90's its embarrassing to hear, weak guitars, dumbed down unstructured songwriting nothing but programming and sequencing along with too many samples, it just wasn't me and I was becoming miserable and unchallenged . Im not trying to offend anyone because I know many people who listen to my music also love goth rock and such, all Im saying is it has lost all appeal to me as a musician. I am still a fanatical fan of Fields of the Nephilim but I never considered them a "Gothic" band, they transcend beyond that sound with their spirituality, musicianship, mystique and hauntingly beautiful songwriting. they are one of the single most constant musical influence in my life. Im very proud of the new musical direction and re-embracing early influences as well as incorporating new ones into more complex song structure.

the new songs are conceptual and actually allow me to be a better musician unrestricted by genre and all the other things that the current metal scene cultivate and encourage, never following a trend as we did in youth but maturing as musicians, challenging oneself musically and as a person.

Current members ~ Robert (Tristan) Cook- vocals, guitar, keyboards

former members and contributers ~
Briant Ceasar (Bass), 
Ken Bergeron (Drums), 
Paul Gardner (Drums, programming, keyboards backing vocals)
Tag Guillot (Guitar)

Hometown
Alexandria, Louisiana

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/COFFIN+FOR+MARY">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.