There is more than one artist with this name:
1) Colapso, a grindcore band from Brasil.
2) Colapso, a death metal band from Ecuador.

1) Colapso started in August 2004, with 5 young men who wanted to play Punk/Hardcore just for fun and influenced by the members' musical taste. These guys were George (Vocal), Luiz Manghi (Guitar and Vocal), Phelipe (Guitar), Gabriel (Bass) and Luis "Rato" (Drums). After rehearsing, which ran so well, they decided to go forward with the project and started playing the underground route in Recife, Brazil. In time and quite naturally the band's sound would become faster and heavier. At the end of 2004, Phelipe had to leave the band, but they continued to trail their way searching for space on the underground music scene doing some rehearses and shows, and in the next year they recorded their first demo called "É o Fim" ("It's the end") with eleven tracks (one as an intro). In the end of 2006 they recorded again for a split with another band from Recife called "Corroídos pelo Ódio". This record made more success than the demo which made the album cross the state border and start to be sold on others parts of the country. In 2007 Gabriel had to leave the band and in his place entered Lilo, who was from another black metal band called "Infernnal". They like to write their lyrics focusing on what they're thinking at the moment and on the things that the members are going trough in their lives.

2) COLAPSO is a five piece Death Metal band from Quito, Ecuador, which gets its influences from many varied sources but primarily from bands in the Melodic Death Metal vein (At The Gates, In Flames, Dimension Zero, Vehemence). In October COLAPSO recorded a demo for the song “CERCA DEL ABISMO”, and During April and May of 2007, the band entered the studio and produced its first material, which was released as part of a split CD along the brazilian metalcore band, Paura, titled “DESPUES DEL DOLOR”. This was the first release of Alarma, an initiative born upon the evolution of what was Escena Hardcore en Vivo. Recorded in EQ Estudios, with the production of Juan Pablo Rivas, and Colapso, and mastered by Alan Douches. The five tracks (and an intro) in this imprint are a testimony of the process undergone by the band in its first years of existence. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Colapso">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.