COLDFEAR is a band from Barcelos, Portugal, currently counting with five elements. A few months have passed with this current formation. Coldfear can count with 2 years of existence under the name of Nightstorm, the band appeared on the early months of 2005, when Mad Dog and Loki (current guitarist of The Ransack), had the idea, after playing only for fun and technical progress as guitar players, of start forming a band. Quickly the chance appeared to form a band and a few days later Bug, joined the formation as drummer. Months have passed searching for the rest of the members to complete the formation. In August of that same year, Chiko, already a friend of some band members came to take the position of bass player. After that, Vitor (vocalist of Necris Dust), helped us on the vocals parts, so that we could have a real notion of how the compositions would sound with a strong vocals on it. Some times later, Vitor introduced and brought a friend, which claimed on 100% the vocalist place, so Litos, joined us on September 2005. This was the first initial formation of the band that soon had to be interrupted, due to Loki, which left the collective to fill the place on The Ransack as guitar player. Even so and, once again with the help of Xavier (Necris Dust’s guitarist), and Vitor, the band played live for the first time to a large group of common friends on the New Year’s Eve of 2006, with another band formed by members of Nightstorm and Necris Dust. In January of 2006, Ricardo Seco joined the formation as guitar player, but soon he left the band, due to professional affairs, leaving (once again) a vacancy to fill. Meanwhile, also and unfortunately, for the same reasons, Litos left the band, remaining only three members. We didn’t stop composing and in May, Melo joined the band as guitar player, causing a slight change on the band’s proper sound. Lastly, in September, Zé Manel came to the band as vocalist, uniting the band’s formation until today. After all this changes we decided to change de band's name, so we've changed it to COLDFEAR in December of 2006. The actual formation of the band counts with "Zé Manel" Martins on vocals, Hugo "Mad Dog" Serra and Pedro "Melo" Guerreiro on guitars, Helder "Chiko" Carvalho on bass and Bruno "Bug" Araújo on the drums. 

www.myspace.com/coldfearband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ColdFear">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.