There are multiple artists with this name
1) An American hardcore punk band 
2) A Canadian punk rock band
3) A Norwegian hardcore band
   
1)
Straight out of Astoria, Queens, Cold Front hit the NYHC scene in 1991. Started by Nick B - guitar (Fit Of Anger), Steve Obrien - bass (Crown Of Thornz and Grey Area), Bobby Magil - drums (NY Hoods, Gilligan's Revenge) and Chris Bunkley - Vocals (Terminal Confusion). After a few months, MS replaced Chris on vocals, Harry (Breakdown, Kalel) replaced Steve on bass, Mike Dijan (Breakdown, Crown Of Thornz, Skarhead, Kalel) was added on second guitar and a long list of drummers were to follow. Dimroc (Crown Of Thornz, Stillsuit, Skarhead), Vinny Value (No Redeeming Social Value, Warzone, Grey Area, Kill Your Idols), Paul (Sworn Enemy, Emanon), Harry Minas (25 Ta Life, Ocean Of Mercy), Lou Medina (Breakdown, Kalel). In the time they were together they played numerous shows in the NYC area as well as up and down the East Coast, released a few demos, were on numerous comps and splits and recorded a full length.
2) 
Coldfront are a Canadian Punk Rock band from Oakville. They have released 3 EP's 
"Is This Where They Found You?" 2016
"Some Things Never Change" 2014
"Coldfront" 2013
https://coldfront905.bandcamp.com
https://www.facebook.com/coldfront905
3)
Cold Front was a Norwegian metalcore/hardcore band, inspired by The Black Dahlia Murder and Darkest Hour, which started up during the summer of 2005 as "Constant Fear". While playing as Constant Fear, they were a cover band playing songs by Iron Maiden and In Flames, but after a year they started to take the band more seriously and changed their name to From Bleeding Eyes. Erik (On Own Terms) joined them on vocals in May 2006, and they recorded their first demo. They changed their name to Cold Front at a later point, but are now disbanded.

Members:
Erik - Vocals
Simon - Guitar
Kristian - Guitar
Kjetil - Bass
Stian - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cold+Front">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.