Cold Sweat is the name of four different bands, they are:

1. A hardcore/punk band with releases on the now defunct Manic Ride Records.  Members went on to Iron Lung, Repercussions, Gehenna, Walls, Men's Interest and Society Nurse.

2. An American hard'n'heavy band, who recorded an album "Break Out" in 1990, which is a classic among rare hard rock albums collectors.

When guitarist Marc Ferrari left the mildly successful Keel in 1988, he sought to recruit a new band that would play a similar brand of slick hard rock.
  Ferrari quickly built a band that would take his own last name as a moniker. He recruited unknown vocalist Oni Logan, Erik Gamans (guitar, ex-Waysted and Fiona), Marc Normand (bass) and Anthony White (drums X-Cursion). Chris McLernon quickly replaced Normad and the band began gigging and shopping demo tapes. Things quickly took a turn for the worse when Logan left the band the same day they were supposed to sign their major label deal, opting instead to accept an invitation by George Lynch to join his new venture Lynch Mob.
  The scramble for a new vocalist began, and within a couple weeks the group was back on it's feet with Rory Cathey, as well as changing the band's name from Ferrari to Cold Sweat. The debut was released and the band hit the road in America and Europe with such bands as Dio (his wife Wendy was Cold Sweat's manager), Sleeze Beez and Love/Hate. A co-headline tour with labelmates Child's Play was cut short when MCA dropped the band the same day their debut video for "Let's Make Love Tonight" was added to MTV.
  Ferrari had seen enough and walked away in 1991. Billy D'Vette joined on guitar and the name changed to Sweating Bullets, but it was to no avail, the band was finished and promptly broke up for good. Since the break-up Ferrari formed a new band called Medicine Wheel and created an independent music publishing company named MasterSource, meanwhile Cathey was found fronting The Fifth. 


3. A band dedicated to the music of Thin Lizzy, was put together in 2002 in Turku, Finland. The band's basic philosophy is to bring Lizzy's material to the standards of the 21st century, both during live performances and in the studio.
Band's homepage: http://www.coldsweat.info/

4. A James Brown-tribute band. They put out the album 'Cold Sweat plays J.B.' in 1988, wich is mainly instrumental.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cold+Sweat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.