Bio
COLD MOURNING is a traditional Heavy Band Hailing from the Monterey / Salinas area of California in the USA.
 The Band was founded in 1986 under the name CREMATION by Mat Bilac in Reno, NV. After Mat moved back to Monterey, CA in the late Fall of 1987 he reformed the band once again as CREMATION. Playing Hardcore in your face thrash metal the band lived hard and played harder through out the 80's into the early 90's. In the Winter of 1993 CREMATION changed direction to more relentless paths becoming COLD MOURNING with the 1994 release of the demo "Looking Forward to Reason." The Band stayed true to it's Hardcore beliefs as it dove even further into the dark world of doom and gloom COLD MOURNING released a few split 45's into the next few years. Also a single song on "At the Mountains of Madness " a UK compilation CD featuring the who's who of the Traditional Doom scene at that time followed in 1997. The tune "Boggy Creek" was used once again on the UK compilation from previous studio tracks. After the departure of long time drummer Brad Burchell the band was joined by UA. The band traveled to San Jose & San Francisco to rehearse & record the next release, for the year 2000 , Titled "Lower Than Low " a full length CD on Game-Two Records. The band played on despite the hardships of real life through the years, until it slipped back into the Void it came from. Then came the Silence. After years and years of Riffs dating back to 1986 , from CREMATION to COLD MOURNING The band , the family , the organization was no more. Life has a strange way of leading you down paths you would of never dreamed possible , our words became reality , our vision was blurred , We went our separate ways . We walked different paths. After eight long years of the Ride of Life , And tired of the long silence Founding members Brad Burchell / Bruce Blankenship & Mat Bilac , Set out to continue the Vision of COLD MOURNING on into the future. Brad Burchell took back his Rightful Throne on the Drums and long time bassist Bruce Blankenship joined Mat Bilac on guitars to create the wall of Sound that is COLD MOURNING . The Band has been joined by Corey Young on bass guitar , who has brought his Unique Aggressive style to the Low End The band wasted no time during the last few weeks of 2010 and released a single song on GAME-TWO RECORDS doom compilation CD "Doom all over the World " the song "DRIVEN TO REASON" marks the return of COLD MOURNING

Discography:
1994: "Looking Forward to Reason" (Demo Tape)
1996: "Cold Mourning" (Demo Tape) Blackened Earth Music
1996: Split with While Heaven Wept (Split) Game Two Records
1998: Split with Twisted Tower Dire (Split) Bad Posture Records
1998: Split with Officium Triste (Split) Weeping Willow Records
2000: "Lower than Low" (CD) Game Two Records
2010 : "Doom all Over the World" Compilation (CD) Game Two Records <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cold+Mourning">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.