There are seven artists using this name:
1) Collision, a Dutch Grindcore band with Thrash influences.
2) Collision, an American heavy metal band from New York City that formed in 1979
3) Collision, an American Hardcore band.
4) Collision, a Dutch hardcore/tekno artist.
5) Collision, a "COLLISION" of musicians exchanging their different musical backgrounds and culture
6) Collision, a Pop Punk band
7) Collision, a Swedish reggae band.

1) Collision is an aggressive grindcore band with metal and hardcore influences. The band was founded by singers Björn and Tammi in 2000. After getting the right line-up together, the band started playing blasting live shows, full of energy and aggression.
After many live shows and one demo (“Miserable, squashed, dead”) Collision recorded their first full length album called “Romantic display of love”, which was released in 2003 on Bizarre Leprous Production.
In 2005 Bass player Marcel was replaced by Mangled bass player Boris. 
At the end of 2005 the band recorded a new album called “Roadkiller”. The album is released in June 2006 by Bones Brigade Records and contains 14 songs of grinding thrashcore assault!
Collision has performed shows with bands like: Pungent Stench, Saxon, Gorerotted, Agathocles, Sanitys Dawn, Inhume, After Forever, Suppository, Mangled, Gojira, Aborted, Sinister and more. Collision has also played festivals like Obscene Extreme (Czech Republic), Fit Of Rage (Czech Republic), Weistock (Holland), and Rockweekend (Holland).

Bandcamp

2) Collision was an American heavy metal band from New York City that was formed in 1979 by a group of childhood friends.   Nik Chinboukas (vocals/guitar), Gustavo J. Vitureira (bass) and Alex Kyriazis (drums) toiled in obscurity in the New York club scene for thirteen years before one of their demos caught the attention of Chaos/Columbia. The band recorded and produced their self-titled debut themselves, releasing the heavily Led Zeppelin influenced album in 1992. Three songs from the album, "Chains", "Maximum Respect", and "Love Not War" were released as singles. Both "Chains" and "Maximum Respect" also had videos which received airplay on MTV's Headbangers Ball.
In 1995, Collision released their second and last album, Coarse, which altered their sound to fit the current music treads of the time. 
After Collision broke up they later briefly reformed as Kollizion.

3) Collision. During the late 90's/early 2000's Southern California had the Hardcore (punk) band Collision. Playing fast and straight forward they combined a sound somewhere between Minor Threat and Gorilla Biscuits; fitting in nicely among contemporaries In My Eyes & the Nerve Agents.
They released a 7inch on Ambassador records, CD EP on Ambassador, and a final demo in 2001 before breaking up. Members went on to many bands, including Impact/Stand And Fight, Internal Affairs, and One Choice.

4) Collision - Industrial Hardcore producer from NL. Founder of Obs.Cur label.

5) Collision Is the literal collision of styles from vocalist Sash Kuzma, keyboardist Sven Martin, guitarist Bryce Martin, and drummer Ken Mundy. The result of such a collision is a unique mix of rock, alternative, pop and electronica, with strong melodies and tasteful, unrelenting hooks. They have been described as Depeche Mode and Duran Duran swirled up with The Killers and Linkin Park.
They self-produced their debut EP, which they released along with a video for their hit song "Touching Me", and received rave reviews in music magazines plus some TV & radio airplay.

6) Collision is a Pop Punk band from Clinton Heights Florida. http://collisionfl.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Collision">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.