There are multiple artists named Collapsar:

1) Collapsar is a dark space ambient solo project from Strasbourg, France, formed by Thibaud Thaunay. With his debut album, “Beyond the Event Horizon”, Collapsar transports the listener on an epic journey deep into the cosmos, forging a path across a vast, inky void, and steering a course around a roiling galactic core of hyper-dense stars and black holes. The sound is epic, expansive, and most of all, heavy. There is beauty and tranquility within these realms, but there is no light – just massive, pulsating textures coalescing into shimmering drones, rippling sound waves, and billowing, multi-dimensional layers of powerful dark energy. “Beyond the Event Horizon” is without question, dark ambient in its purest form and one of the more genre defining releases of the last several years.
Collapsar is also half of the duo Maculatum, along with Rasalhague.

2) Collapsar is a post-rock band from Lafayette, Lousiana, United States, formed in 2002 from the dust trail left by defunct scream-core outfit Icepick Revival. Members Brett Judice (drums) and Stephen Sheppert (guitar) began writing heavy, progressive instrumentals and enlisted the help of guitarist Dave Graeff to help them realize their new ideas. By blending a wide range of influences including progressive rock, metal, hardcore and math-rock, Collapsar forms melodic compositions which combine hard-hitting riffs and subtle, sometimes pensive textural soundscapes. This intermingled architecture of sounds results in unpredictable trajectories, while never sacrificing musicianship and memorable songwriting.
After a demo the band was brought into the Escape Artist Records fold for the release of their self-titled debut in 2005. The album received rave reviews from a wide range of music publications including Modern Drummer, Decibel, Pitchfork, Terrorizer, Revolver, and countless others. The band toured heavily throughout the southern and eastern USA, including a showcase performance at the Midwest Music Summit in the summer of 2005. Shortly thereafter Graeff was replaced by guitarist Adam Harris and the band began writing for their second full length, "Integers", which was released worldwide in November of 2007 by Escape Artist.
The band announced in 2009 that it had decided to split. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Collapsar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.