Ultimate Slow Funeral Doom since early 2003 (disbanded in 27.03.2016)

Comatose Vigil was formed in January 2003 in Moscow, Russia under the name Subhuman Abstract. In the same year, the band made a rehearsal record on a tape recorder and distributed it among their friends. 

At that time it was the first Russian funeral doom metal band. 

In 2004 the band changed its name to Comatose Vigil and was noticed by Russian label Stygian Crypt. Soon the band signed a contract for one album, which was released in Autumn 2005 on a new Stygian Crypt sub-label called Marche Funebre. 

In September 2006 Comatose Vigil signed a new contract with Moscow label Solitude Productions for a single for their second album. 

During more than five years since EP “Narcosis” the band's line-up several times have changed for various gigs, but finally returned to the original one, in which was recorded the debut album, made the band famous:

A.K. iEzor (Andrey Karpukhin) – vocals, drums
ViG’iLL (Alexander Orlov) – guitars, bass
ZiGR (Anton Kurdyakov) – keyboards

The second long-awaited album “Fuimus, non Sumus...” was recorded at Primordial Studio (Russia), also famous for work with Revelations of Rain, Who Dies In Siberian Slush, engineered by Hater & Stellarghost (from Abstract Spirit, Twilight Is Mine). Mixing & mastering was done by Greg Chandler (from Esoteric) at Priory Recording Studios (UK).

The band split up for the first time in March of 2012.

Discography:
2005 - Not a Gleam of Hope (Marche Funebre)
2006 - Narcosis (Solitude Prod.)
2011 - Fuimus, non Sumus... (Solitude Prod.)

Reunited on summer 2014, Comatose Vigil started rehearsing actively, aiming to prepare for the upcoming 2-day Russian tour with Shape of Despair in early 2015.

After successful concerts in early 2015, the band began working on new material for the third album... But unfortunately, the work was never completed.
Comatose Vigil finally disbanded in 27.03.2016.

Official site: https://vk.com/comatosevigil <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Comatose+Vigil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.