There are two bands called Common Grave: One Death Metal act from Germany, and one Black Metal act from Italy. 

Common Grave [Germany] Death Metal:
Common Grave was founded in spring 1999 and recorded one year later with “M.D.K” the bands first demo. After some line-up changes, the release of their debut “Dehumanized” marked the start of the band. Common Grave had found their musical style: a mixture of traditional US death metal, mixed with modern elements in a powerful soundclothing. “Dehumanized” was produced by Stephan Fimmers and Muhammed Suicmez (both Necrophagist) and was released via Twilight Distributions.
With their second album “Embedded Coding”, Common Grave is now back on the scene with a bang. The album, once more produced by Stephan Fimmers, contains guestvocals by no one less then John Gallagher (Dying Fetus) and Elliot Desgagnes (Beneath the Massacre) and takes Common Graves sound to a complete new level. It completely merges old school vibes with state-of-the-art brutality: blasts, breakdowns, grooves and technical death metal join forces in this catchy and explosive modern sound. Matured and refined songwriting adds complexity and melodic elements, but the nevertheless destined to kill on stage. And this is what the band is living for!!!
After having played support shows for bands like Necrophagist, Job For A Cowboy, Immolation, Deadlock, Cannibal Corpse, Marduk, Origin and Vader, the band showed with their participation on the renowned Summer Slaughter Canada Tour (amongst others Necrophagist, Dying Fetus, Beneath the Massacre, Into Eternity,…) as well with the “Bleeding Scandinavia”- and a Balkan Tour that they are a seriously international live act. Besides the extremely successful tours, Common Grave presented their new album also on several German and international festivals.
For summer 2010 some festivals have been confirmed so far, amongst others some in the USA, as well as a three week tour through the states, to promote “Embedded Coding”.


Common Grave [Italy] Black Metal:
Common Grave was founded in the summer 1999 by EM (guitars), MZ (guitars) and XXVII (vocals). They started to play as a Brutal Death band and immediately began to compose their own songs. In 2003, with Suffer replacing EM at guitars, the band chose to leave all the Brutal Death songs written and played until that moment behind, and to continue to play Black Metal exclusively.

Together with the composition of the new songs, also the live activity was going on and it brought the band to play in several successful events in the north-east of Italy, together with many other bands, like Handful of Hate, Natron, Ancient, Absentia Lunae, Tundra, Silva Nigra and Inferno amongst the others.

In January 2005 a promo entitled “Memories”, containing two songs for a total duration of about 20 minutes, was recorded in prospect of the following full-length.

In April/May 2007, Common Grave recorded their first full-length album, “Il Male di Vivere”. In June 2007 a single track promo has been published, containing the rough mix of the title track of the album “Il Male di Vivere”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Common+Grave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.