Conan Gray is an American singer-songwriter and social media personality. He was born on December 5, 1998, in Lemon Grove, California. As an infant, his family moved to Hiroshima, Japan and short after returned to California, before settling in Georgetown, Texas.

He started his career on YouTube under his channel 'ConanxCanon' before officially changing to 'Conan Gray'.  While on his time on YouTube he released multiple original songs, with the most famous one being 'Idle Town' the lead single of his debut EP 'Sunset Season' released on November 16, 2018. Before releasing the EP he signed with Republic Records in October of 2018. He supported the EP with the singles 'Generation Why' and 'Crush Culture'. 

In 2019, Conan officially started to release a series of singles for his debut studio album 'Kid Krow'. Since June he has released 3 official singles, with the most notable one being 'Maniac', which garnered success in South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and on many Spotify charts around the world. Two days before the release of his album, he released the third official single 'Wish You Were Sober'. On March 20th Conan released 'Kid Krow'. The album debuted at #5 on the Billboard 200 albums chart and following the commercial success of Kid Krow, Apple Music named Conan as an Up Next artist and released an exclusive mini-documentary about him in April 2020.

Conan has taken a liking to leaving hints of future events on his Instagram stories, following in the footsteps of Taylor Swift herself. In the lead up to his Sophomore album, Superache, which was released on June 24 2022, Conan hinted clues of letters in coffee cups, roses and a week before the album announcement, a timer counting down to the album release announcement on his website. On April 15, Conan released his 4th single for the album, Memories, which has had success in TikTok, and reaching over 100 million streams on Spotify. 

Conan's song which rose him to international fame, Heather, has reached 1 billion streams on Spotify. This is his first song to reach the "billions club."

Currently, Conan is on tour with Kacy Hill and Baby Queen in the United States, and is set to perform for his second time in Australia and his first time in New Zealand in November. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Conan+Gray">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.