Born from the hope of creating a new path which aims to bring together music and human consciousness, the musical project Concurrency in Knowledge expresses the dissonance but at the same time, the unbreakable Past - Present connection and similarity of knowledge. ()

Lyrical themes and leitmotifs that transcends our work are mainly focused on pain and grief caused by the dissonance between expectancy and reality, value of truth, price of ignorance, survival, hate and uselessness of religion.
We assume the idea that emotions are incommunicable/impossible to communicate because they are entirely subjective. Therefore, we can only provide to our public a near description of our inner thoughts and emotions, within our music. The message that public is going to receive will be different of what we try to transmit because they have acknowledged different life experiences and, looking through the glass of those of experiences, they will internalize our musical emotions in a purely subjective manner. In fact, what they will understand, is going to be a new form of knowledge, their personal knowledge about this band.

Brief history
Along time, this project faced many structure and name changes. The first initiatives of this project start to take shape in 2012 when the founder member begins a long series of collaborations which is going to result in the cohesion of a group formed of Cedrik, I. Preda, V. Cristocea
Before the actual name was established, the project was set under the name of „Vodevil” in 2011 and „Decider” in 2012. For further considerations, we decided that the actual name „Concurrency in Knowledge” best expresses our musical purposes and way of thinking.
This musical ideal was only kept alive due the constant efforts of Cedrik who faced a hard time looking the most capable companions, willing to fulfill a dream.

The concept:

The past is possible by the space-time perspective, but in the human perspective, the individual subject relives it by bringing it in the present. Transforming the past into our present sequence, we concurrently live two realities: the present reality (of the actual moment) and the mirror reality (the reality of the past’s reflection in the present).
The two realities cannot exist otherwise than simultaneously: the mirror reality will never be totally in the past because it will continue to shape human actions through the present, creating a pattern of similarity between "it was" and "it is". Reaching the conscience of the two types of reality but also understanding their unidirectional simultaneity (always from the past to the present), man will be able to acquire knowledge. The meaning of knowledge will be the same with the meaning of reality, the past becoming guidance for the present.
There are two types of knowledge overlapping the two types of reality: the eternal knowledge (which belongs to the mirror reality) and the present knowledge. 

The primordial source of knowledge was the result of war between Gods (..) and the First Man (..).

The first man was endowed with the supreme gift and curse: to possess gods’ knowledge but to live by human law. Seeing humans dominated by instincts, lacking knowledge and judgment, the First Man commands the assault against Gods in order to provide mankind "The Book of Knowledge".
The Book of Knowledge is the only code through which descendants of the first man handed over all acquired knowledge, creating an unbreakable connection between gone generations and the ones to be born. 

Past generations, that are now part of history, inherited eternal knowledge in the very moment that their life flame was shattered by the wind of time, leaving their offspring the chance to add, by their present knowledge, new skills to permanently increase the knowledge already inherited.
Human's lives and knowledge succeed concurrently; man of the past and eternal knowledge transmigrates to the eternal present humans...

Ioan Preda - vocals

Valentin Cristocea - bass guitar

Cedrik - guitars

Teo Popp - drums

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Concurrency+In+Knowledge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.