Concept of God, which features current members of Solitude Aeturnus Robert Lowe (vocals), Steve Moseley (guitar), James Martin (bass) and former Solitude Aeturnus member John Covington (drums), began in late 1999 not long after Solitude released their fifth album, Adagio. As Solitude entered into what would become their longest break between albums, music was being written by Steve Moseley for a side project of a slightly different nature. As fate would have it, Robert Lowe was also developing a "Concept" for a side project and presented Steve with lyrics and ideas that he had been working on.

After agreeing to focus their efforts, the Concept of God project began to take shape. John Covington came aboard on drums and long time friend River Tunnell stepped in on bass. This lineup played quite a few regional shows with different keyboard players in the mix as well. Eventually, River was replaced with James Martin, whom Steve had worked with in other projects over the years. In December 2000, after many months of live shows, this lineup entered Pineapple studio in Arlington Texas to record nine songs. Shortly afterwards, problems arose with Solitude, and side projects were put on hold. The Concept recordings were never completed. As band members changed in Solitude and new material was being written for their next album, Alone, it seemed that the Concept of GodD project would never see the light of day.

In July 2007, after almost seven years, the recordings were taken to Nomad Studio in Carrollton, Texas and put together in their proper form by the master engineer, Mr. J.T. Longoria. The album was produced by Steve Moseley and mastered by Steve and Nomad Studio owner Gary Long. Massacre Records in Germany will be releasing this debut album entitled "Visions" on November 9th, 2007. The music is a mix of Power and Doom, with a hint of Technical Edge that is sure to please fans of Solitude Aeturnus and all who like it Heavy.

Robert Lowe - Vocals (Candlemass, Last Chapter [Guest], Solitude (US)/Solitude Aeturnus)

Steve Moseley - Guitars (Solitude Aeturnus, HYD)

James Martin - Bass (Solitude Aeturnus, anister, Kinrick, ex-Michael Harris, Surgeon (US))

John "Wolf" Covington - Drums (ex-Solitude Aeturnus, HYD, Kung Foo Preacher) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Concept+of+God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.