There are multiple artists with this name, to be fair they are listed in order of last.fm listeners:

1. Concept is a producer/DJ residing in Auckland New Zealand. Concept has established a signature sound – incorporating influences of jazz, soul & golden era hip-hop. If you enjoyed "Envision" & "Impromptu Notes" visit www.essenchillrecords.com for more info.

2. Concept is Dj Noon (Arnaud Levasseur), a french man that started his carreer in psy trance in 1994, on the island of Bali and since then he’s been playing in big festivals and parties all over the world. Producer for 7 years after a few releases he start his solo full on project call “CONCEPT” and release on divers compilation of different label as 3D Vision records, Timecode, Shiva Space Technology, Digital Psionics records and many more..... He also release his first album "Expérimental" on Fungi records in 2005 and his second album "Paranormal" on 3D Vision records in 2007. Concept music style his deffenetly a dark full on melodic building on fat rolling bass line. Today he also start a new project call “Prism” in colaboration with Scorb on Trick Music.

3.  Concept is also a Italian progressive power metal band. 
Released by Underground symphony on 2003 Reason and Truth. 2005 The Divine Cage.
http://www.conceptsymphony.com

4. Concept is an American Hip Hop Artist from Philadelphia, PA (arguably the most popular artist under the name) born Daniel Byelich, on August 15th, 1989. 
His break through to the hip hop world, came in 2009, when he released an all instrumental EP titled "The Pitchfork Product EP". Since he has joined two other Hip Hop acts, Sideshow Mob, and Bio Organic Weaponry (B.O.W. for short)
His first major solo release (and first release in three years) the "Lip Service EP" was released June 8th under the Stolen Youth Records brand. The EP contains his break through hit single, "Aliens", which won an award for Music Video of 2011 at the Reno Hip Hop Awards. 

5. Concept is also a hip hop group called Concept (featuring Ray New) also existed in the mid 2000's.

6. A British band originating from Basingstoke, Hampshire who took part in the UK's X Factor in 2014
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Concept">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.