Thrash Metal band from San Francisco. 
http://www.myspace.com/concretecoffinsf

From their Myspace:
Concrete Coffin was formed in 2002 with Joe(vox), Tito(guitar), Aki(guitar), Ryu(bass), and Ashwin(drums) in South San Francisco, CA. The band strives to create brutal and aggressive Bay Area Thrash that is true to its genre and fans. Armed with a 5 song demo and a handful of local gigs the 'team of heavy' made an honorable impression among the Thrash community both in the Bay Area and worldwide, ultimately earning a spot in the first ever Thrash Metal documentary 'Get Thrashed'along side the best bands to ever come out of the Thrash era. However due to personal circumstances Ryu(who is actually a guitarist that was filling in on bass) and Aki both had to part with the band before 2004, in early 2004 Eric joined the team replacing Ryu on bass with authority, adding flavor with octaves and solid finger picking. From early 2004 until nearly summer of 2005, the team auditioned many guitarists, trying to find the right axeman who could replace master-soloist Aki, and finally came across Baron, who was hungry to play thrash again after years of grunge driven 'metal'(nu-metal) bands looking for guitarists. Within a month, Concrete Coffin was gig ready again, playing venues in the Bay Area regularly and opening for major acts. In the summer of 2006 Ashwin decided to part ways with the team due to personal circumstances, and was replaced by local Hungarian drummer Andras, adding a slight European taste with lethal fills and a steady high paced meter. Ultimately deciding to pursue another direction at the end of 2007, Andras remains very close friends with the band and fills in regularly. In the summer of 2007, Concrete hired local drummer Tushar Agrawal to lay down drum tracks for the current demo, showing so much interest in the band, and delivering blistering double bass thrash beats, it was mutually decided that Tushar would join and replace Andras. Concrete Coffin is undeniably at their strongest and have released their first demo since 2003.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Concrete+Coffin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.