Condemned Soul have been writing and performing for nearly 10 years. Continually developing their sound, they have moved away from their death metal roots to incorporate melodic and atmospheric elements while still remaining heavy.

The band formed in August 1993. Their early material drew obvious influence from the thrash and death metal scene of the time, although even at this stage the recognisable Condemned Soul sound was becoming evident.

The band went from strength to strength during 1994 and 1995, concentrating on improving their songwriting and playing skills. They began gigging locally, and in the following couple of years attracted a loyal following. Always difficult to classify, they took elements of many musical styles and incorporated them into their unique, heavy death/thrash sound.

In addition to gigging, the band recorded and released a number of demos. These included two studio recordings, the second of which (Manipulation of Justice, 1995) showcased their originality and was greeted widely with a positive reaction.

By 1998 Condemned Soul had established themselves in the local metal scene. Unfortunately, personal commitments and a lack of time forced them to disband in August of that year.

It was during Spring 2002 that the idea of reforming Condemned Soul was first discussed. Guitarist Andy Whitehead, drummer Andy Berry and original vocalist Justin Antcliffe (1993) made the decision to begin writing and performing under the Condemned Soul name. From the outset it was decided that the band's sound would be different from the old Condemned Soul. More melodic, more atmospheric and drawing on influences outside of extreme metal, the band realised that melodic vocalist Antcliffe and keyboardist Fiona Snow would add a new dimension to their sound. The new line-up was completed with the addition of bassist Chris Gilson, and the band spent the next 12 months writing and rehearsing an entirely new repertoire.

The reformed Condemned Soul played their first gig in March 2003, and were pleased to be greeted with an enthusiastic response. A CD recording of the gig was also well-received, and the band were excited about the new material.

In April 2003 the band parted ways with bassist Gilson due to musical differences. His replacement was James Hall, whose influence helped shape the band's sound over the following months. In August 2003 Condemned Soul entered the studio to record the self-financed 4-track Rebirth EP. This was released in September of the same year.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Condemned+Soul">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.