There are mutliple artists with this name:

1) Condemned is a brutal death metal band from California, USA. They formed in 2004 by Forrest Stedt (Drums, Cephalotripsy, Viral Load) and Steve Crow (Guitars) reharshing on a few ideas. Soon after old friend Paul Hickey (Bass) was added and thus the line up was completed. They started to rehearse and wirting material of low tuned gutiars, catchy hooks, low guttural vocals and blasting drums to their music.

In July 2005, the band added second guitarist Chris Ben-Judah (Guitars) and were looking for a proper vocalist. As the self-released demo "Mass Burial" was released with Crow doing Guitar/Vocals the band were looking with a vocalist with the same guttural expertese. They found Angel Ochoa (Vocals) after being contacted by him from their demo. They released Mass Burial again with Angel on vocals and the demo spread out fast and created a good name for them in the brutal death metal scene.

The band parted with bassist Paul Hickey and guitarist Chris Ben-Judah, and replaced them with bassist Mario Pena and guitarist Jerry Williams. The band was soon in search of a label to help put out their debut album and was consequentially contacted by Zdenek of Lacerated Enemy Records. The label then released the band's debut album called "Desecrate the Vile" in 2007 with wide reponse around the globe. The band played a couple of tours, in Japan and Europe.

The band parted ways with the second guitarist Jerry Williams and are working as a four piece. However, the band signed with Unique Leader Records to promote their name in tours. The band went on a "Desecrating Europe Tour" with Inherit Disease in May, 2008. The band then were joined by Paul Avila (Guitars, Divaricate) to complete the line up for their studio promo. The promo was released in late 2008.

The band's second album, Realms of the Ungodly, was released in November 2011. In 2013, Angel Ochoa left the band to join Disgorge, and new vocalist Sam Townsley was recruited.

Official Myspace

2) Condemned is a Thrash Metal band from Canada. They formed in 2003 by Jorge Sousa (Vocals/Guitars), Nelson Filipe (Guitars), Jeff Silveira (Bass) and Marco Onorato (Drums) to play raw, groovy thrash metal with harsh vocals like Pantera or Skinlab. The band got down to business straight away and released their self-titled debut demo that were influenced by such bands as Pantera, Slayer and Exhorder. 

The band soon released their debut album called "Nemesis" on their own and are now playing gigs around their local area of Tornto, to try and promote their groovy new style of thrash metal from the 1990's and a mix of 80's influences.

Official Myspace

3) Condemned is a Brutal death metal band from Texas, USA. They formed around 1995 with the current line up being William Willette (Vocals), Shawn Thornton (Guitars), Acker (Bass) and Bobby Balli (Drums). The band plays staright forward Brutal death metal in vien of bands such as Mortician, Suffocation, Cannibal Corpse and Monstrosity. They have released a self-titled EP in 1997 and a demo in 2004. 

Official Myspace

4) Condemned is a Thrash Metal band from Japan. They formed in 2002 and their current line up is Hoshi (Vocals / Bass) , Jun (Guitars, Lumb of Mind) and Yousay (Guitars). They have release two demos since 2004 and have released them for free on their website.

5) Condemned is a Death Metal band from UK. They formed in 1993 and their current line up is Willy Taylor (Drums) , Steve Moore (Guitars, Devilmakesthree), Pete Clarke (Vocals) and Mike (Bass). They have released one demo and three EPs in their career which demonstrate simple UK death metal with such influences from Deicide, Six Feet Under and Napalm Death.

Official Myspace

6) Condemned was a Thrash Metal band from Washington, USA. They formed in 1990 and released two demos and a live album which sounded of the up and coming groove thrash scene in the US bands like Assorted Heap and Exhorder. 

7) Condemned was a Death/Thrash Metal band from USA.

8) Condemned was Thrash Metal band from Middlesex, UK.

9) Condemned was a Thrash metal band from Sweden.

10) Condemned was a Doom Metal band from Greece.

11) Condemned was a Death Thrash band from Germany.

12) Condemned was a Death Metal band from Denmark.

13) Condemned was a Hardcore/Punk band from Japan.

14) Condemned was a Hardcore band from Tucson, AZ.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Condemned">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.