Condemned to Suffer began as guitarist, Ron Mackey, and drummer, Jared Brown, playing together and bringing members to the band. In 2001 they went under many names and through many members, until finally settling on Cynical Society. Cynical Society played only a couple of shows during the year of 2001. As time went on the band found that cynical society was not a fitting name for the band. In 2002 right before their first CD was finished they changed their name to Dead Thoughts On A Living Mind with Ron Mackey and Kevin McNally on guitar, Geoff Stahl on bass, Jared Brown on drums, and Joe D'Onoferio and Mike Myers on vocals. Soon after the recording of "What Angers You, Controls You" (2002) Kevin left and Mike went from vocals to guitar. They played a few shows during 02-03. In October of 2003 dead Thoughts on a Living Mind set up a show with some popular local bands at the time (Fall River,Ceuts..) and  got a pleasing response so the band finally got their asses in gear and wanted to move forward with the music. In March of 2004 the band went in to record what was to be the new sound of the band. Two weeks before recording their new album, Mike quit the band, and the remaining members changed the name to Condemned to Suffer. After "As The Skies Bleed" (March 2004) was recorded the band had Mark Maderich play guitar for them. May first of 2004 Condemned To Suffer released their EP and opened for 25 Ta Life. During that summer CTS played many shows all over Pennsylvania. Tracks off their EP "As The Skies Bleed" were featured on a few compilation albums and had some Philly radio air play. Early in 2005 CTS got their first show outside of pa they played in purchase New York and got one of the best responses they ever had. CTS continued to play gigs all over pa. In March of 2005 CTS recorded a split with a local metal band Shotgun Terror. In July of 05 Mark was kicked out of the band. CTS have been working on writing a full length CD and searching for another guitar player. In July of 05 Stephen Pfeiffer joined the band. In April of 06 CTS began recording their first full length titled, A Bullet or a Knife? This album contained 14 tracks and lasts over an hour. CTS finally found their sound after 5 years of 3 hour practices twice a week. Condemned to Suffer is a hard working band they do everything on their own and try as hard as they can to get heard. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Condemned+To+Suffer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.