Conflicted is the name attributed to more than one artist:
1) a Trashmetal band from Chile
2) a Power/Progressive metalband from Canada

1) Conflicted is a crossover thrashmetal band from Chile. Their debutalbum Social Disorder was released in 2012. Their second album Under Bio-lence followed in 2015.

2) Based in Toronto, Canada – CONFLICTED create a truly unique and genre-expanding Hard Rock/Progressive Metal sound via a combination of expert technical ability, a fervency for volume, and a passion for power - all presented within the framework of well-crafted, memorable songs.

CONFLICTED was founded, and is fronted by singer/songwriter Jason Orton, whose four-octave vocals have attracted considerable attention for their rich tones - delivered with both ferocity and emotion. In perfect contrast, guitarist/songwriter Mark Owen possesses a fiery and virtuosic stranglehold on the fret-board. Working with one another in various capacities for most of their musical careers has led to the development, and constant evolution of a long standing, deep and symbiotic musical partnership between the two and together they are the driving force behind CONFLICTED. Completing the line-up, and commanding the bottom end with a relentless intensity, is bassist Chris Boshis, with the percussive onslaught, played with seasoned precision, being provided by new drummer Jeff Spaleta.

Formed in 2008, CONFLICTED independently released two EPs and, based on the strength of these releases and their ever growing reputation for putting on stunning “must-see” live performances, CONFLICTED was named “Best Metal Band” at the 2010 Toronto Independent Music awards while also taking home four ImageFM Radio Annual Independent Music awards (Male Vocalist of the Year, Guitarist of the Year, Drummer of the Year and Progressive Single of the Year).

In 2011, CONFLICTED signed with the renowned progressive metal label Nightmare Records and released their first full length album entitled “Never Be Tamed”. The album was released worldwide and quickly garnered high praise and critical acclaim from the international metal community - with a particularly strong showing in Europe. With the positive reviews pouring in from all corners of the globe, tracks from the album received generous airplay internationally on both conventional and internet radio stations resulting in the album appearing high up on many “Loud” and “Metal” charts - including a #1 spot!

During this time, CONFLICTED gained a track spot on the prestigious RockBand III platform, as well as the inclusion of “Never Be Tamed” on numerous “Best Metal Albums of 2011” and similarly named charts. Further promotion and support of “Never Be Tamed” continued throughout 2012/2013 with CONFLICTED performing numerous headlining shows in addition to providing support for international touring artists all the while continually writing and rehearsing new material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Conflicted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.