There is more than one artist with this name:

1) a anarcho-punk band from South London.
2) an industrial metal band from Moscow, Russia.
3) a Japanese breakbeat artist
4) a gospel rap artist from Sacramento, CA.
5) an 80's hardcore band from Tucson, AZ.
6) Goa trance from Jerusalem

1) Conflict is an anarcho-punk band originally based around Eltham in South London. Formed in 1981, the band's original line up consisted of: Colin Jerwood (vocals), Paco (drums), Big John (bass), Steve (guitars), Pauline (vocals), Paul AKA 'Nihilistic Nobody' (visuals). Their first release was the EP "The House That Man Built" on Crass Records. By the time they released their debut album It's Time To See Who's Who on Corpus Christi Records, Pauline and Paul had left the band. Conflict later set up their own Mortarhate label, which put out releases by other artists including Hagar The Womb, Icons of Filth, Lost Cherrees, The Apostles, Admit Your Shit and others.

In 1983 Steve Ignorant, at the time a member of the band Crass, guested on the band's pro-animal rights single "To A Nation of Animal Lovers." After the dissolution of Crass, Ignorant later became second vocalist for Conflict on a semi-permanent basis. This followed a 1986 gig in Brixton, London wherin he had joined the band on stage for a few numbers.

The band have always been outspoken regarding issues such as anarchism, animal rights, the anti-war movement and in their support for the organisation Class War, and a number of their gigs during the 1980s were followed by riots and disturbances. The band's 'Mortarhate' logo, originally designed by 'Nihilistic Nobody' is commonly mistaken as a reference to the initials CND (Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament), but as quoted directly by paco the drummer for conflict is in actual fact a nihlist symbol. it incorporates two 'A's for anarchy and autonomy, and an 'N' for nihilism. The logo originally appeared around 1980 in Thanatos, a small circulation pamphlet produced by Toxic Graffity (sic) fanzine editor Mike Diboll.


The band continues to exist today, although their record releases and live performances are sporadic.

2) CONFLICT\CONFLИCT is an industrial death metal band from Moscow, Russia. Band formed in 2004, and finally released first LP, called "Prototip\Прототип", in february 2009. http://www.myspace.com/conflictmetal

3) Conflict is a Japanese breakbeats/downtempo unit name currently on the Soup-Disk/Corde Inc. labels.

4)   Introducing Conflict, a west coast youth evangelist and gospel rap artist from Sacramento, California. 

Violence?
With such a name as Conflict, most people would assume the title represents violence or war. Well, the name means just that, only in a different context. In such a world as the one we live in, corrupted by lust, abuse, addiction and a lack of sexual integrity, Conflict stands to counterattack society's ideas of morality, with God's divine purpose for His creation. 

Vision
With a burden for today's generation of young people, Conflict's vision is to "speak life right into the face of death, and stand as an ambassador of Jesus Christ, to reconcile a love- relationship between God and His creation." Coming from a gang-related past and his father's fatal overdose of heroin, Conflict speaks a common language to young people of the urban culture

5)  Conflict was a hardcore band from Tucson, AZ, together between 1982-1984. Fronted by the female vocalist/bassist Karen Allman, they played with the likes of Black Flag, Minor Threat, Ill Repute, Channel 3, D.O.A., and many more. They put out a self-released EP called "America's Right," then in 1983 they released their only studio album, "Last Hour" (on Placebo Records). They also have 3 songs on the compilation "This is Phoenix, Not the Circle Jerks." The band was known for their biting feminist lyrics in an era when hardcore was highly male-dominated.

5)  Conflict Special Goa/Psytrance Project from Jerusalem, also known as Do-D-Idea. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Conflict">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.