1) Congregation is a two piece blues and R&B band from London

From Myspace: "Hailing from the New Cross bedsit scene looking like a couple of gangsters from the depression era, Congregation have lately been injecting the Blues and R&B genre with a heavy dose of class and soul. Benjamin Prosser (Slide Guitar, Bass drum) and Victoria Yeulet (Vocals, Leg Bells) play the kind of raw, slinky and seductive blues that have the power to restore one's faith in the genre. I know because they did it for me. On record and on stage Prosser is a dark presence, wavering in the background, playing slide riffs and thumping a bass drum with his foot. Victoria wails away with a voice that never fails to chill. This is a voice that manages to conjure up all of her fallen sisters in arms back from the dead (or used record bins), yet it's still very much her own. The overall effect of these two's music is moving in a way that is both remorseful and joyful at the same time. They are so deep that it would hurt if you could stop smiling at the beauty of it all. English White Boy R&B has a lot to answer for and these two are going a long way to re-dressing the issue. My new favourite band. (Ben Swank)"

2) Congregation was also the name of a British band that had a one hit wonder reaching Number 4 in 1971 in the UK charts with "Softly Whispering I Love You".

3) Songs from LDS (Mormon) General Conference sessions beginning in October 2008 which included the congregation assembled in Salt Lake City (in addition to whichever musical group - Mormon Tabernacle Choir or other - was singing) are marked with the artist name "Congregation."  These tracks are usually easy to spot, and include: "Come, Ye Children of the Lord," "Teach Me to Walk in the Light," "Rejoice, the Lord is King," "How Firm a Foundation," "Now Let Us Rejoice," "Let Us All Press On," "High on the Mountain Top," "Redeemer of Israel," "True to the Faith," and "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/congregation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.