1. Upcoming hip hop sensation "Conscious" is Brett Prusinski  a 22yr old Western New York native. Conscious brings melodic, sensual vibes packed with witty, emotional and memorable lyrical verses that matches over unique and funky production. Conscious recently headlined his mix tape release show "Waking Up The Neighbors" which was greeted with an outstanding crowd response. Conscious is best known for being featured on AM Buffalo and his profound work alongside national touring acts such as Steven Cooper, Mc Lars, Mega Ran & Mark Battles.  Along with a pure flow Conscious provides the listener with a voice that is said to be "powerful and made to move crowds". Conscious's creativity expands over many art forms as he is  involved in every end of the production including writing all of his own lyrics, directing and editing all videography & photography. Conscious's work speaks on life experiences, love, social issues. Conscious has quickly made his footprint in his hometown of Buffalo, New York and has created a great presence online from numerous viral videos that have accumulated an increasing following that has started a movement referred to as #TeamConscious. Be on the lookout for more from Conscious as time progresses. To find out more about Conscious at his official website www.Conscious716.com

2.The pendulum of art swings to extremes. It can be overtly public or complexly personal. Striking a balance between the two can be difficult to do and even when it's achieved, very few do it as well as Conscious. Rising from the ashes of an artistic world bent on quick success and prepackaged formulaic fodder, this multi-faceted renaissance man is exactly what that name evokes: a revival of intellectual and artistic growth with a vigor and passion that's unmatched.
 
Never boastful, Conscious moves with quiet force; building his audience, expanding his ventures and linking with like minded individuals to make sure there are alternatives for the masses. He doesn't complain that things aren't changing; he makes his own route, daring others to do the same. Making sure the community is growing just as he is, Conscious has dedicated not only his time, but also his talents to prison outreach performances, as a hip-hop business instructor, a computer instructor at Harlem's Jericho Learning Center and opening with Beatboxer Entertainment for Scot Ritner for the 9/11 commission at the historically relevant Riverside Church in New York City (Riverside Church is the location where Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his legendary Beyond Vietnam: A Time to Break Silence speech, on April 4, 1967)
 
He's performed at venues such as The Knitting Factory, the Nuyorican Poet's Café, the Schomberg Theatre, The Sae Institute's Hotel Remix and the legendary CBGB's to name a few. He's built a solid reputation as a host, poet and an emcee and has shared the stage with artists the likes of Doug E Fresh, Immortal Technique, Hank Shocklee & Ice T. As founder of the Eklektic Gardens label, he's released multiple collections of progressive, innovative music including Neo Retro Spectro Graphiks Vol.1, Journal: An Eklektik Journey, Pagan: 1st Movement 1968, and Vinyl Destination. He's provided music for a number of films and also contributed to the musical back drop of the play "Sick Rhymes"(produced by Smokin' Word), and the "Square Peg Syndrome" that were a part of New York's Hiphop Theatre Festival.
 
Conscious isn't content to have his hand in only the writing and recording worlds. He's an experienced actor with credits under his belt in films like "Little Man" and "Take the A Train", television shows such as MTV's "The Shop", the documentary "To Thine Own Self Be True" and on the DVD "Beatboxing & The Art of Spoken Word". He's even appeared as a model for Jask Clothing. He is the founder of www.freehiphopnow.com, and maintains a number of websites including 60secondreview.blogspot.com and www.consciousbootleggers.com to name a few. He's a painter, a photographer, a producer, a force to be reckoned with.
 
True growth for art comes through those involved stepping outside of the box and breaking the mold of what's come before. It's finding a new angle and expanding on it until the world opens up. It's sparking your own personal renaissance every time you pick up a pen, a mic or a brush. It's what Conscious does, what he lives, what he is. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Conscious">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.