In 1999 Ian Parry formed his debut symfo progressive metal band project The Consortium Project, featuring guitarists Stephan Lill – Vanden Plas, Tamas Szekeres, Thomas Youngblood – Kamelot, Patrick Rondat & Elegy Drummer Dirk Bruinenberg. Entitled “ Ian Parry’s Consortium Project “ it was released first in Japan by Nippon Crown, France via N.T.S. & throughout Europe & the USA via InsideOut Music. Followed by South America via Progressive/Megahard records Nov’ ’99. The Consortium Project band performed a number of sell out shows at Cafe de la Dans in Paris, and Lyon, France and in Germany, Holland & Belgium in ’99 with Patrick Rondat & Stephan Lill – Guitars, Dirk Bruinenberg – Drums, Gunter Werner – Keyboards & bassist Rhapsody bassist Patrice Guers. 

After worldwide reclaim for his debut Consortium Project album, Ian produced his Consortium II cd entitled “Continuum in Extremist” 2001 the 2nd part of his extraordinary symfo-progressive melodic power metal Concept. Ian based his fictional concept story, on present day issues creating a theoretical world run by a new singular female species called NOEFEMS. A fictional world going out of control, Ian who personally coordinated the production duties for Consortium II recorded the album in various studios throughout Europe and the USA and was mixed by ex-Victory guitarist/producer Tommy Newton (Helloween, Elegy, Kamelot, & Ark) at Area 51 studios in Germany. C II is a unique collaboration of Progressive-Power metal with an incredible concept released in Europe, South America & Japan 2001 via King Records.

October 2003 saw the release of Ian’s 3rd part of his concept amazing concept story. “Terra Incognita” (The undiscovered World) Consortium Project III cd via Century Media Records. Produced and arranged by Ian, this was by far his most prestigious performance to date and for Ian a superb production. C 3 was, which he intends to adapt for a musical Rock Opera called “Terra Incognita” (The undiscovered World) was a formidable and awe inspiring story, incorporating many issues and topics such as the discovery of the Human Genome, Global Warning, the issue of human cloning and also the hysteria we've seen around Reality T.V.

New Consortium Project 4 cd. During the promotion of Visions in early 2006, Ian was astonished by the interest from journalists for Ian to continue his rock metal concept story Quote Ian” originally I only intended make a Consortium Project Trilogy. Towards the end of 2005 I had co-written songs with my colleagues Joshua Dutriuex and Ivar de Graaf and we all agreed at the time that these powerful tracks would be ideal for a Consortium Project 4 cd. So After having received such overwhelming positive reactions, it’s the first time in my twenty odd years in the music business, that I’ve actually been inspired by journalists to make another album. This time around my colleagues and I decided to make focus more on the raw edged guitar orientated metal style, rather than writing progressive Songs, but still keeping the symphonic keyboard elements. The approach is to use keyboards in musical passages this time around, like Hollywood does in movies and enhance the concept story by having spoken intro’s with a female story teller like on C 2 and creating epic choir type atmospheres illustrating the concept story more. C 4 is set centuries in the future and describes a tale how future generations go in search of there historical past. This magnificent offering entitled “Children of Tomorrow” is a co-produced album by Ian and Elegy keyboardist Joshua Dutrieux. C IV was released in July 2007 across Europe via the German rock metal label AOR metal Heaven and has received many great reviews. In addition Ian made his debut in the USA releasing his latest solo cd and Consortium IV via California based ProgRock records and the response for both albums has been very positive. Upcoming schedules releases for the Consortium Project IV and other albums from Ian’s vast catalogue are planned for Brazil via the Sao Paulo based metal label Dynamo records, due for release in November 2007. Later in december Ian’s get his 2nd official release in Russia via Mystic Empire records. New Consortium Project 4 video clip “Enigma” Ian makes his debut video clip using a track on the new C IV cd “Enigma” and within a few months received over 11,000 hits on his new YouTube site. Consortium Project tour plans in 2008. After the recent success of Consortium IV Ian and co-producer Joshua Dutrieux teamed up with a new Dutch agency called Multi Fairs Music Agency who are now in the process of setting up a number of select shows throughout Europe. The Consortium Project band line-up with include Ian, Joshua, Dirk Bruinenberg and newcomers Niel Vejlyt on lead guitar and Pain of Salvation bassist Kristoffer Gildenlöw. Already additional shows in Brazil are planned with a 2nd video clip as a prelude to the Consortium Project tour. During the live shows Ian plans to record a number of shows for a live DVD & CD for release later in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Consortium+Project">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.