The band born in july of '99 under the name of Conspiracy. The original lineup were made by Gale on the guitars, Allo on the drums, Franz as bassplayer and Davide as Vocals. The intentions is to mix the different metal sounds of sacred monster like Metallica, Sepultura, Pantera and Slayer to the more Hard Core music of Biohazard, Strife and Life of Agony. The band burn the stages and after only a month play the first shows ever, a short set of 5 own tracks with a sound that seems to be yet mature and personal. In october the four-pieces enter at Fear Studios to record in only 3 day their first demo, assisted by Paso and Gabry. The demo were send out to labels, and after a couple of tentatives Vacation House Records, the most important label in the italian hc scene, released the demo as a MCD. In this days the band had the possibility to play around the north italy and share the stage with the best acts of italian underground like Browbeat, Reprisal, Livello Zero and Sentence... and to open as guest on the italian dates of One King Down, a legend of the hardcore made in NY! Two songs from the first MCD were extracted for being inserted in as many compilations, one released for the belgian HardcoreCrow and one for the italian label NoBrain, listing well known italian bands as Raw Power or Extrema. In November of 2000 Conspiracy support the belgian Deformity in a 4 date tour, then in spring of the next year (2001) its time for the first european minitour, landing in belgium and holland sharing the stage with bands like Born From Pain, Destiny end more. The year 2002 is manly spent in rehearsal room, where the new sound is taking shape. Thrash metal has been fused with early death metal in order to obtain a claustrophobic and oppressive sound with the malvagity of black metal, all filled with hardcore breakdown. The band's sound is really personal, the structure are always differents and the shape of the song doesn't exist, the are not chorus or resumption, compositions are creatures always in motions, with continuous and wrongfootings change of time. In October of the same year the dream seems come thru. Conspiracy open the italian date of the euro tour Vader-Krisiun-Decapitated. An awesome experience for a young band! March 2003, the four-pieces enter the studio to record the first full-lenght between Studio73 and Fear Studios under the supervision of the mighty Paso (Ephel duath, Slowmotion Apocalipse, Handful of hate, Addiction Crew…). In the meantime, in order to not create confusion with the born of other bands with the same monicker, the band decides to change name in Conspiracy A.D. The first full-lenght titled "Humanity=Destruction… the end in near" is almost done. After a few weeks, the american label Crash Music Inc sign the band for a 3-album deal, and in Jenuary 2004 the debut album hit the street all over the states, to comes out in europe in April of the same year. The critic had a positive impact on it, the album been reviewed optimally from the italian press (6/6 on Metal Hammer, album Buy or Die” on Psycho…) and abroad (“A deadly masterpiece” 8,5 on Metal Observer, “Simply amazing, don't miss this masterpiece" UnEathed.com) After few shows, between the opening for the date of Chimaira and a festival as headliner of extreme italian bands, the problems begin. Allo was operated on the feet, and the band stops for three month jumping also the already official support to Impaled Nazarene show. In Jenuary 2005 Davide leaves the band duo to musical divergences, so the three survivors still continue the development of their sound and the research of a new singer. After some discarded candidate Enrico enters the line-up, taking with him a more aggressive approach and a more powerful attitude. The band working hard putting down new songs with a refreshed and evolved style. The 2006 start with some live shows sharing the stages with Fightcast, Ebola and the awesome Extrema! Then in July the four-pieces enter the bill of Bloodshed Summer Fest with Fall Of Serenity (DE), Stigma, Undead and a heap of old time friends! In the last December the band has recorded, already with Paso, the new album "two years of premeditation" never gets released due problems with the labels,the band splits up at the end of 2007 after celebreting with a last show opening for ENTOMBED (SWE). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Conspiracy+A.D.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.