There is more then one artist with this name:


1) Consecration were formed in Belgrade, Serbia in 2000.

2) Consecration were formed in Norwich, UK in 2010.


1) Consecration were formed in Belgrade, Serbia in 2000. Over the years the line-up has frequently been in a state of change, before finally stabilizing in form of a three-piece band.

The band spent six years in making of their debut album aux. Dissatisfied with the lack of interest by local labels, the band decided to put both aux  and live album entitled live 2nd april 2008 (containing five completely new tracks) for free download on 13th May 2008. This action caused the emergence of many great reviews from both foreign and local critics.


Consecration's music is a matter of constant evolution. While on aux  one can hear influences such as Opeth, Katatonia, Anathema, Slowdive or Neurosis, the band's sonic horizons were already widened on the live album, spreading over sounds and signals which are influenced by artists such as ISIS, Aphex Twin, Autechre, King Crimson, Tool and Sigur Rós. The influences have been progressing until this day including Pink Floyd, Radiohead, Portishead, Queens Of The Stone Age or The Cure.

Consecration's main strength lies in their live performances and the huge amount of energy that's thus delivered. The band pushed this even further while recording their sophomore album  .avi, utilizing the old "one, two, three, rec!" method in order to capture that live spirit on tape as much as possible.

Recorded in studio Underground in Jan/Feb 2009 over the course of six days and mixed in about twice as much,  .avi contains studio versions of songs from the live album live 2nd april 2008 and has been released on 29th March 2010 on Geenger Records.

The third album Cimet was released in March 2013. It was recorded live and then mastered in USA by James Plotkin (Khanate, Jodis, OLD). It got great reviews and the press was unanimous that Consecration widened their sound with Cimet even further.

The fourth album Univerzum Zna is released in November 2013. Univerzum Zna was mixed and co-produced by Aaron Harris (the drummer of ISIS and Palms) in his studio Vista in Los Angeles, California (USA). Univerzum Zna was once again mastered by James Plotkin.

Over the time Consecration played in countless clubs in the region as well as several big festivals in Serbia, most notably as headliners on FENODOM festival, three times on EXIT festival, ARF festival and Naša Stvar Open Air Music Fest. Also worth noticing are several bigger concerts where Consecration opened for known bands such as Neurosis, Mastodon, Gojira, Slayer, Block Out and Cathedral and shared the stage with The Ocean, Knut, Hesus Attor, Charon and To/Die/For.

The atmosphere Consecration creates soon grows in people's hearts, so be sure not to miss them if you are willing to hear and feel what their sounds have to tell.

Official Homepage: http://consecration.bandcamp.com/
Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/Consecrationband

2) Consecration is a Death Doom Metal band from Norwich, England.

Daniel Bollans - Vocals
Shane Amies - Bass
Liam Houseago – Guitar
Jordan Grant - Guitar
Robbie Spencer - Drums

Consecration was founded in May 2010 by Shane, Daniel and Chilli. Soon after the initial discussions; Lee and Jordan were added, and our formative line-up was complete. After a short period we recorded two demos on a four track. These gathered a lot of interest and excellent feedback, despite the low quality production.

We entered Tides Reach Studio in September 2010 to record our debut EP entitled ‘Gut The Priest’.
This was an entirely self-released effort, comprising 6 tracks. This had a number of great reviews, including:
4/5 in Zero Tolerance * 8/10 on Destructive Music * 7/10 on Doommantia.com * 3.5/5 on Metal Rules.com
A number of limited run T-shirt designs were created to promote the release, which sold out very quickly.

In December 2010, Chilli left the band to concentrate on his other efforts, and Liam joined on second guitar.

May 2011 saw us release our debut promo video for the track ‘Gut The Priest’; filmed, edited & produced entirely by ourselves.

We entered UEA Studios during June 2011, to record all of our new and updated material in demo form.

During August 2011 we released ‘Unhallowed’. A self-produced DVD containing tracks from the ‘Gut The Priest’ EP, the promo video for ‘Gut The Priest’, together with teaser tracks of new songs, photo gallery, new artwork, and a video biography.

2012 was spent writing and playing a number of select live shows.

At the beginning of 2013, we parted company with Lee as our drummer. Robbie replaced him behind the drum kit, which added a brutal new dimension to our sound. We spent the first quarter of 2013 updating our material and writing new tracks.

During March 2013, we had the privilege to be included on the ‘Metal Carnage I’ compilation, showcasing some great UK underground metal acts. This was produced and available via Abyssus Records and was advertised in Terrorizer magazine.

Released in July 2013, was our second EP ‘Echoes Of The Dead’. This self-produced demo was recorded raw during rehearsals.
The EP showcased our new line-up; with 3 brand new songs, alongside a reworking of a previously unreleased track.

A highlight gig was with Esoteric at the Asylum II, Birmingham, November 2013, supporting a band we all respect & admire.

We entered HVR Studios between November 2013 & February 2014 to record our debut album ‘Ephemerality’.
We were honored to sign a deal with UKEM Records in August 2014
‘Ephemerality’ was released on UKEM Records in December 2014 and via PHD for digital distribution.
We have already had some great reviews; including an 8/10 on Doomed To Darkness. The album has been well received so far, with the number of plays on streaming sites being very positive. We have had a number of interviews alongside radio airplay.

2015 has started very well; the first gig for the year was supporting Ethereal & Eastern Front. We are also really excited to be confirmed for DesertFest, Camden in April 2015, on a bill including Sleep, Orange Goblin, Cancer, Angelwitch & Eye Of Solitude.

The rest of 2015 we are focusing on playing and promoting ‘Ephemerality’ live, with one or two new songs added to the set. 
Our aim is to bring our unique brand of death/doom to as many audiences as possible, and take our live show to the next level.
New merchandise has been created to coincide with the album, and a new line of t-shirts will follow in the coming months.

We have played frequent gigs both locally, and across the country, in locations such as London, Newcastle, Birmingham & Bristol.
We have supported Esoteric, Desecration, Denounce, Ancient Ascendant, Absolution, Merciless Terror, Decrepid & De Profundis to name a few. Our live shows have consistently been praised.

www.facebook.com/consecration666
www.reverbnation.com/consecration
www.myspace.com/consecration666
www.youtube.com/ConsecrationDoom666
www.instagram.com/consecration666

Merchandise available at:
www.consecration666.bandcamp.com

Contact us at:
Consecration666@hotmail.com
www.twitter.com/Consecration666

Con-se-cra-tion: verb transitive.  Make or declare sacred (to); Dedicate formally to religious purpose;
Devote to; a solemn commitment of your life or your time to some cherished purpose (to a service or a goal).
Do not be fooled by the name, Consecration are anything but sanctifying. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Consecration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.