1.) Contagion's 1992 breakthrough album "Contaminant PCB" (Capitol Records), featured the hit single "Scratch", which continues to chart in clubs worldwide. 
Contagion's "Infectant" (2000) included the single "Hate" featured in the motion picture "The Gene Generation" and "Skinner."

Originally known as Biohazard PCB, Contagion's North American performances with Nine Inch Nails, Front Line Assembly, and Die Warzau - established them as a powerful presence in the Industrial genre. Contagion has appeared on 4 motion picture soundtracks and released over 15 international compilations and singles. Contagion provided the soundtrack to several interactive games, including the banned controversial "Thrill Kill." Contagion is also featured in the film "The Gene Generation" and "Skinner."

PCB Productions was established by Creative Director Keith Arem.
Arem has been one of the leading Talent Directors and Content Producers in the Game and New Media industry serving as the Director of Audio for Virgin Interactive Entertainment and Electronic Arts Pacific.

Arem has produced, directed and recorded over 500 commercial releases in the
game, film, music, television, and graphic novel industries, including franchises for Call of Duty, Ghost Recon, Saints Row, and others.

Arem is most noted for his music and production work with Capitol Record's CONTAGION (previously known as Biohazard PCB) - Often appearing with fellow Industrialists Nine Inch Nails, Front Line Assembly, and Die Warzau.

2.) Contagion was a Death Metal Band from United States of America (Burbank, Illinois) formed in 1989 and changed name to Funereal
http://www.myspace.com/contagionchicago

3.) Contagion was a Thrash Metal Band from United States of America (Eau Claire/Altoona, Wisconsin) formed in 1987 
 
4.) Contagion was a Progressive Death Metal Band from United States of America (Framingham, Massachusetts) formed in 2004 and changed namo to Cadaveryne

5.) Contagion is a Hardcore death metal band from Long Island, New York they currently have one three song EP released titled 'lockdown EP part 1' 

6.) Contagion is a slamming deathcore band from England.
https://contagionea.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Contagion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.