1.Electro / dark wave / industrial band from The Netherlands. 
2. A UK band signed to Little Steven's Wicked Cool Records
3. A christian vocal band from Romania comprised of 7 girls.
4. An unsigned band from Weston-Super-Mare.
5. A christian-rock (and soft rock) band from Romania.
6. An unsigned hip-hop artist from Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
7. An unsigned jazz band from Ski, Norway.
8. A rap/metal band from Vaasa, Finland. Active 1994-2000.
9. An unsigned band from Melbourne, Australia
----
Contrast (Netherlands) was founded in Amsterdam in 2003.Their music can be described as a mixture of (dark) electro, combined with dark wave, gothic and industrial elements. In December 2003, Contrast finished the first demo-MCD "The Devastation Files". From this demo, the song "Follow the Leaders" appeared on the CD DeCODEr (a compilation by Suicide Commando) and the CD 10 years DJ -X-X-X. In November 2005 Contrast released the demo "Preparations". In May 2009, they released their debut album "Antidote" on Triple Handshake Records, in cooperation with Pandaimonium Records and Nova Media Distribution. In May 2009, they also made a remix of the Clan of Xymox song "Emily".

Contrast (Norway) 

----

Contrast (Australia)

Contrast are an unsigned band from Melbourne, Australia. Originally formed in 2012 by James Thompson (guitar), Nathan Brown (bass guitar) and Jack Crook (lead vocals, guitar). They were later joined by drummer Tom Smeets (Steering by Stars) in late 2013.

Their sound can be described as punchy, built on a solid wall of sound which is harmoniously underpinned by a driving rhythm section. They juxtapose soaring distorted guitar with laid back jangley undertones-the result of a fairly prominent shoegaze/post-punk influence. 
Contrast also draw inspiration from the likes of: Mercy Arms, The Jesus and Mary Chain, The Church and Sonic Youth.

Their independently released debut single 'Dull' was toured throughout Eastern Australia with Hollow Everdaze. The single was produced by Thomas De Vries (The Citradels) and mixed/mastered at Birdland Studios by Lindsay Gravina (Rowland S. Howard, New War). 

Having played a dizzying number of live shows in and around Melbourne, Contrast returned to Birdland Studios Late in 2013 to record and master several new songs with Lindsay Gravina. 

Their latest single 'Pipe Dreams' is due for release in March 2014.

https://www.facebook.com/contrastmelbourneband 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Contrast">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.