Cool Million is an upfront production team and collective of soulful friends taking soul back to the future. We respect and love the past, but we also believe in progress.

Cool Million was founded by Frank Ryle, a well known soul music personality in his home country Denmark. As the founder of Denmark leading soul music page, Soulportal.dk, Frank has built up a huge network worldwide of artists, radio- and club DJ’s and record companies over the years.

Rob Hardt (Seductive Soul) of Germany is the second half of Cool Million. Rob is a well respected remixer, songwriter and producer. His credits includes production, remix and songwriting for artist like Chaka Khan - Never Miss The Water - Reprise Records / Keith Sweat - Twisted - Reprise Records / Roger Troutman & Zapp - Livin For the City - Reprise Records, just to mention a few. He also (together with Harry Zier) produced the acclaimed debut album of Donald McCollum “U Don’t Want My Love”, released on Dome Records in 2006. Other releases from Rob include another acclaimed set, his own jazzy deep house project The Defloristics entitled “Back In The Days” on Lil Angel Records.

“Naughty Girl”, their debut single featuring Lene Riebau on vocals, is already out on Expansion Records compilation album “Soul Togetherness 2007”. 

Cool Millions next offering was "Walk Away" featuring Scottish artist Eleana. The Kleeer inspired track got attention all over soul land and furthermore it is featured as the newest release from Sundae Soul Recordings (out of Germany). 

Cool Million (Rob & Frank) are now ready with their debut-album titled 'Going Out Tonight'. The album will include a variety of new talented artist and more well-known names (male & female). 

Rob & Frank grew up listening to the same kind of music from around the start of the 80's and their debut-album are therefore infused by this practically period. We talk about 808 drums, handclaps, uplifting party music and strong vocals from some of the best singers around today. 

Cool Million is a heartfelt desire to, as they say, “Take Soul Back to the Future” and furthermore create and preserve the essence of the term "Soul".

Enjoy... 

Cool Million
"Taking Soul Back to the Future"
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cool+Million">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.