This is from their own website:

ABOUT COPENHAGEN ART ENSEMBLE  

Profile
  Copenhagen Art Ensemble has existed in its present form since 1996, under the leadership of conductor/composer Ture Larsen and saxophonist/composer Lotte Anker.

The orchestra consists of a solid core of twelve musicians and one conductor and is widely regarded as being one of Denmark’s most interesting and innovatively trail-blazing large ensembles in the realm of contemporary jazz.

Copenhagen Art Ensemble’s artistic ambition has always been to expand, reshuffle and rearrange the musical space where elements of improvisation, composition and the large jazz ensemble are amalgamated in those areas that have been designated variously as new music, contemporary jazz and improvisational music.

All thirteen of the musicians/conductor who form the orchestra are among the most gifted and colorful musicians/improvisers in Denmark.
The orchestra is busy cultivating qualities that are indigenous to the small combo: elasticity, spontaneity and improvisational freedom. At the same time, CAE aspires to embrace the more complex timbral and expressive qualities that are salient potentials of the large ensemble. This unique admixture of freedom and structure, the single musician’s individuality within the context of the whole and the thrilling compositional material, comprise the substance of the sound pictures and the musical expressions that characterize the work of Copenhagen Art Ensemble.

In the last few years, Copenhagen Art Ensemble has been working together with a long line of distinguished composers/soloists. Accordingly, the orchestra has premiered more than one hundred new pieces. Among the Danish composers who have written for Copenhagen Art Ensemble, we can mention John Tchicai, Marilyn Mazur, Fredrik Lundin, Kim Kristensen, Pierre Dørge, Irene Becker, Jacob Riis, Thomas Clausen, Ture Larsen, Lotte Anker, Thomas Agergård and Simon Spang-Hanssen.

Copenhagen Art Ensemble has also performed music by and played concerts with Tim Berne (USA), Django Bates (UK), Joachim Kühn (D), Jon Balke (N), Joakim Milder (S) and Peter Danemo (S).

Moreover, Copenhagen Art Ensemble has collaborated with the Zapolski String Quartet and the Ars Nova vocal group and has also played a concert with a Bata-drum group and a series of concerts with electronica in the forefront. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Copenhagen+Art+Ensemble">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.