There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Coral (Coral Segovia) most commonly known simply as Coral, is a spanish pop singer who is known for her stunning vocal ability. Coral participated in the Spanish Eurovision National Selection Event in 2008 with the song "Todo Está En Tu Mente" She came in second overall, almost winning the chance to represent her country in the contest. She also tried out in 2010 with her song "En Una Vida" However, once again finished 2nd place in the national final, losing out to Daniel Diges . She went on to win the Eurovision Second Chance Contest 2010 that year with "En Una Vida" representing Spain.

2) The Coral are an English band formed in 1996 in Hoylake on the Wirral Peninsula in Merseyside.

The band's music is a mixture of old-fashioned country, 1960s-style psychedelia and folk with modern rock influences. The Coral have released four albums. Their self-titled debut album was nominated for the 2002 Mercury Music Prize and later voted the fourth best album of the year by NME Magazine. It was announced on the 9th January 2008 that Bill Ryder-Jones would be leaving, but the band would continue as a 5-piece.

Hailed as the first English band of the "guitar group revival" the band released the critically acclaimed EPs Shadows Fall, The Oldest Path, and Skeleton Key in 2001. Their eponymous debut album The Coral, released in 2002, reached number five on the UK Albums Chart and was nominated for the Mercury Music Prize the day after its release. A successful UK tour and festival slots followed along with the singles "Goodbye" reaching number twenty-one in the UK Top 40 and "Dreaming of You" reaching number thirteen.

3) Coral was a 4 piece band from Richmond, Va.  
Band members included John Kovalcik, Bob Schick, W.Q. Walker, and Steve Smith.  Bob Schick of Honor Role fame fronted the band.  They released 2 LP's and 2 7" on Fistpuppet and Merge records in the mid 90's. The first album was "Pillow talk" followed by "Altamont in Dub".  Coral was well respected in the Richmond scene but the band broke up due to personal conflicts within the band.  Bob formed a new band called The Dynamic truths that released a 7" on Merge. The Richmond, VA independent record label Little Black Cloud Records released a Dynamic Truths collection in 2010 entitled Understanding is Overrated. 

4) Coral Members of Icelandic band Coral (not to be confused with the British "The Coral") have been playing together in their home country since early 2000. They have released one EP in 2002 and have now released their first full length album, "The Perpetual Motion Picture". The album was recorded in various places in Reykjavík by various people (including Coral themselves) and finds the band expanding their rock-sound to include influences as varied as jazz, classical and even electronic music. Their second album, 'Leopard Songs' was released in 2011.

5) Coral is a Japanese thrash metal band that was formed in 1995. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Coral">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.