www.corroosion.tk 
www.myspace.com/corroosion
https://www.facebook.com/corroosion
Hometown: Turin, Italy
Members are :
AnD - Vocals, FX 
Dave - Drums 
Sentenza - Guitars
Marco - Bass 
Lino - Guitars

Now new age is started and CORROOSION are ready to smash again listeners’ ears, with a new brutal and incredibly modern album.The new twelve tracks of DIRT AWARENESS have been finalized by swedish producer Fredrik Nordstrom at Fredman Studios (At The Gates, Job For a Cowboy, Bring Me The Horizon, Dimmu Borgir, In Flames) and will be released with RISING RECORDS on 27 February 2012.

The band with actual CORROOSION name is born in 2005 from the ashes of HEKATOMB band, founded in 1998 in northern Italy. Devoted since early times to violent thrashcore/death metal, the band is leaded by the singer AnD along many changes and shows. 

After the self-maded experimental demo “Maze Of Human Deprivation” and through a continuative creative process the band stop gigging in 2008 and entered One Voice Studios (Hatebreed Team) to create it’s first six-tracks EP, “Two Steps Before The Vein”. The sound of this little work is immediately appreciated by death metal and hardcore folks on myspace, and allows CORROOSION to play with artists like The Acacia Strain, Deicide, Neaera, Annotations of an Autopsy, Knights of the Abyss, Cripple Bastards, Slowmotion Apocalypse, Extrema and many others.

In June 2009 CORROOSION signs a worldwide record deal with the prestigious british label 
Rising Records - candidated as best metal label at the Hammer Golden Awards 2009, and start the recordings of the first full length PUNISH THE MIND, with the touch of american producer Alan Douches (Killswitch Engage, Emmure, Carnifex, The Acacia Strain, Cannibal Corpse).
The record and second single video “Mind Punishment” strike again the scene in 2010 and transport the fans of extreme music in its diversity and determination, all over the globe.

In 2011 the band was focused on shows with The Ghost Inside, Bleed From Within, Suffokate, Trigger The Bloodshed, For The Fallen Dreams, before starting writing process of new songs.
Also the best magazines as Metal Hammer and Rock Hard recognize the value of unpublished sounds, than a premiere version of “Repulsion” track was included in a special compilation! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Corroosion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.