1) An Electronic Based rock band from the UK. formed by 2 members of the Alternitive Rock band All Living Fear in 2001. Corrosion are Matthew North (Guitar, Synths, Bass) and Paul Roe (Vocals, Guitar, Bass). The band debut album N-Y-A-G-A was released in October 2004 and saw the band playing shows with Artuhr Brown, Alien Sex Fiend, The Last Dance, Ovni and Zodiac Mindwarp to name a few. Paul and Matthew also perform acoustic music under the name 'The North Road'.

2) There is also another band who are an electronic and dark ambient based act based in Melbourne, Australia and formed by Daniel du Prie. Albums include "The Way Is Shut" (2003) and "Softly The Earth  Turns Around and Round The Sun" (2002). This band was known not to exist when the UK band Corrosion registered the bands name in 2000.

3) Corrosion is Morgan Williams, an experimental electronic music producer from south Wales who's first album was released in December 2011 by the name of "Classical Lunacy". Drawing inspiration from Drum and Bass, Electronica, IDM and Metal, the music is high tempo, distorted and very energetic.

4) Corrosion was a hardcore punk band from Japan.

5) Corrosion was formed in Lima, PE in 2003, when Alberto Zegarra started creating electronic sequences through synthesizers and mixed by computer. Omar Barahona, school friend, joined the project with the idea of playing the bass to add more presence and weight to the songs. That's when Omar introduced Luis, a friend from college, so then he added more riffs and solos to the songs. These were getting more aggressive and Alberto accompanied them with the voices / screams.

In 2006, the band released a demo with 13 songs, mostly industrial gender, this music was new in the city and it was played in festivals. Corrosion is industrial metal and interacts with sound samples from movies, political speeches, industrial sounds, aggressive guitar riffs and strong bass. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Corrosion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.