The predecessor of the current band was a band called Mordor (set up in July 1991), established and formed by Juraj Žember (guitar/vocals), Pavol Franek (guitar) and Miroslav Badinka (drums). As for the style, Mordor was a typical death-metal band. The band went through many personal changes and in 1995 it acquired its current name. Corrupted Melody was formed by Juraj Žember, Marek Singer (guitar), Roman Stražanec (guitar) and Jozef Nitriansky (drums), an ex-member of Angels Decay. In April 1996 Roman Stražanec left the band as a consequence of personal disagreements. He was replaced by Daniel Kudláčik (guitar, vocals), an ex-member of Sarcastic. The band was still following the classical death-metal line, however, already at that time most of the members started to think of style variations. A bit later the production started to show the influence of doom- and black-metal. These style variations might have been the cause of Marek Singer's leaving the band in the middle of July 1996, right after the death-metal festival organized by the band. He was also replaced by an ex-member of Sarcastic, Ján Jankech. However, he did not stay long, the same as his successor Eza who was not yet technically able to master the production of the band. This position was taken by Juraj Glovňa (guitar), an ex-member of Absolution, in November 1996. Approximately at the same time the band was joined by Martin Janeček (keyboard), which was the first significant digression from the originally pure death-metal line. The final point in the process of the band production style enrichment was the decision to take on a female singer. Following the mutual agreement, the singer, Sylvia Rybanová, joined the band after the concert in the Vrštať club in January 1997. In the middle of April the band recorded their first demo-album in the Top Studio in Topoľčany. However, the result was not satisfactory and the record quality was also reflected in initial reviews. Due to personal disagreements the drummer Jozef Nitriansky left the band in December 1997 and since then the band has been playing and composing on a drum machine. In December 1998 the band recorded their second demo-album "Forsaken Ravens", this time in a studio with appropriate equipment and attitude, the Paladis Moonset Studio in Šala. After the concert in Belfort, France in 2000, the guitar player Daniel Kudláčik left for England where he got married and where he currently lives. A little bit later Sylvia Rybanová left the band as well. Consequently, the band went through a period of latency, did not produce any new material and the remaining members met very rarely. In spite of that the band officially still existed. Yet, in 2003 the band found substitution for missing members; Sylvia was replaced by Miriam Kostrová and the position of the guitar player was taken by Radovan Glovňa. Since 2003 the band has been composing new musical material and apart from playing at concerts the members have been preparing for recording another album with ten new songs. The album is expected to appear at the ending of 2007 and its musical and technical quality should overshadow the whole band production so far.... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/CORRUPTED+MELODY">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.