Montreal’s Corridor take familiar elements, but assemble and scramble them in a way you may not have heard before. There’s a twin-guitar interplay that recalls the late-’70s mutant new wave of XTC, The dB's and The Feelies, with a sense of melody that shows a love of 60s psychedelia and sunshine pop. Putting a hometown twist on things, Corridor sing entirely en français. Don’t let that put you off though: the creativity and abundance of killer tunes found on their acid-baked 2017 album Supermercado breaks through the language barrier. Corridor are even better live, with a real joie de rock that knows no borders — guitars slash, harmonies soar, bodies a constant blur.
http://corridormtl.bandcamp.com - Corridor are: Jonathan Robert, Dominic Berthiaume, Julien Bakvis, Julian Perreault.

There are other artists using the same name:
Another Corridor is the creation of Timothy Drury, Photographer and Composer. He has played with and written for many acts including the Eagles, Don Henley, Stevie Nicks and now Whitesnake. His CD, The Crossing is a collection of emotional, memory induding compositions, filled with movement, melody and passion. The CD is available now at his official website: timothydrury.com

[3]
Next is the alias for multi-instrumentalist Michael Quinn's musical project. The self-titled debut album features eight tracks of lush noise- drenched stories of passion, disillusion and coming of age in the modern world. Quinn himself, whom still in his 20's is considered a seasoned player in the post-hardcore scenes in Boston and Seattle. Eventually making the move to the greater Los Angeles area, Corridor wasted no time getting key slots on shows with Ariel Pink's Haunted Graffiti, Xu Xu Fang, Winter Flowers and Rainbow Arabia, as well as packing up the cello, guitars, samplers and keyboards in his old VW wagon and performing unforgettable live shows at dives and art galleries across the USA. Taking his influences from dark-wave Michael Gira's Swans, midieval English folk and gypsy-jazz master, Django Reinhart, he makes sounds that only few can dare to categorize. At this moment, Quinn has joined LA-band Warpaint on tour as a live drummer and cellist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Corridor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.