Two bands can be mentioned :
Metal band from Ånge, Sweden and veteran death metal band from Ankara, Turkey.

CORRODED (SWE) BIO :

THE STORY SO FAR CORRODED started out in 2004 and after a couple of jam sessions the pieces of the jigsaw started to show a picture, it was dark, it was heavy, it was angry and it looked good. It was soon clear that the path of the band would be in the heritage of the heavy rock acts of the 70..s with additional layers of a more modern sound. CORRODED has established themselves as a force of nature when it comes to performing live with a vast track-record of successful gigs under their belt, including a U.K.tour. Late 2008 the fruitful collaboration with platiumproducer Patrik Frisk started out with the heavy rotated first single "Time and Again" as the first result. The debut album "Eleven Shades of Black" entered the Swedish chart with a 2 spot on the very first week and with written reviews equivalent to standing ovations, you can tell that CORRODED is going places.

The characteristic of the band is the heavy yet melodic three-part guitar work combined with a suggestive and tight rhythm section and of course the unmistakable razorblade sharp voice of Jens Westin.

In late 2009 national TV station TV4 handpicked "Time and Again" to accompany the promotion of their blockbuster show "Expedition Robinson" internationally known as "Survivor".
This story has just begun, the band is still CORRODED.


CORRODED (TUR) BIO :

In the season of autumn of the year 1997, the band appeared at the underground scene in Ankara, Türkiye, through the workship of Cenker (guitars), Levent (bass), Tolga (vocals) and Emrehan (drums). The gain of the hardwork within one year, was the release of the demo named "Executed In One Second" , which included four tracks and recorded in Izmir, within the mood of the cold and beatiful sea atmosphere. Neither the bad quality of the sound , nor the insufficience of the promotion opportunities prevented dignity, increase of the fans and the perserverence to make a better one, so by following the circumstances by the year of 99, the band again went in to the studio in Ankara, with a new bassist called Engin who joined us after the break-up with Levent, and recorded two new songs which had to be an experimental promo-tape for publishing some records, radios, distributions and zines. The eagerness of the two years, opened a new period for the band, that is the period 99-00-01, with many gigs, interviews, contacts, correspondal, which lead the band to record a full-lenght album. It was the summer of 2001, when the band decided within great opportunities to go for it. In a comfortable air and place, around friends with respect the band came to it. The band decided to name this beatiful recording, which is done in the end of the summer of 2002, "Psychotogenic" which has 9 things to say about sickness, anger, brutality and chaos... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Corroded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.