There are more than one artist with the name Cortez:

1. a Swiss post-hardcore band
2. a tech-house duo
3. an American stoner rock band
4. a rapper from Bed Stuy, Brooklyn. Murda Ave.
5. a Dutch country-folk pop band

1. The configuration in which Cortez evolves is quite unusual: drums, guitar, vocals and no bass. Yes, no bass - or at least no bass player. It's a real technical achievement, enough to destroy anything standing in their way. This Swiss trio plays a (straightforward) post hardcore (noise) that is direct, heavy, atmospheric violent and which will please fans of either KNUT, BOTCH or CULT OF LUNA. Even if their music remains aggressive, it's still charged with emotions and intensity. 
Their story began in 2001. After four years of hard work and tons of shows, they have now found their own personal style and originality. 
Having shared the stage with bands like DILLINGER ESCAPE PLAN, UNSANE, ISIS, BURST and many more, they have gained a solid reputation as a live band. 
In 2005, Cortez went on a French tour for two weeks along with ASIDE FROM A DAY to promote their last effort: "Initial". The album was recorded with Pascal Hirt and mastered at RFI Studio in Seattle (BOTCH, ISIS, .), the cover was done by Benjamin Ith et Fabian Sbarro (VANCOUVER, UNFOLD, THE EVPATORIA REPORT, .).
Thanks to the quality of their music, artwork and live performances, they got excellent reviews in the press, announcing a promising and exciting future for the band!

2. Cortez is an alias of Chris J. Agnelli & Robbie Nelson, better known as Agnelli & Nelson. The productions made under the alias Cortez are more experimental and rhythmic than the melodic and vocal tracks produced as Agnelli & Nelson. Cortez made only two releases: 'Über den Wolken' and 'Scaramanga/The Force'.

3. Cortez is a Stoner Rock band that formed in 2006 in Allston, MA USA. The band signed to Belgium's Buzzville Records and released the EP "Thunder In a Forgotten Town" in 2007.
[source: cortez.ch]

4. Cortez is an east coast rapper who has battled in Smack, URL, Lionz Den and Grind Time.  He is from Bed Stuy, Brooklyn. He reps Murda Ave.

5. A Dutch country-folk pop band from Amersfoort. Instruments like accordeon, banjo and mandolin are not unusual for their music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cortez">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.