there are 2 bands named Cortisol. 
(1. Mike and Laurent first met in january 1999 on the Lemmython tour when their respective bands ...And Here I Lie (from Rochester, NY, USA) and Porno Coma (from 402) played a handful of gigs with Toronto's answer to Cheetah Chrome Motherfuckers-meets-Fugazi freaks Association Area. A few months later Mike moved to Québec for marital reasons (including intercourse). A year passed, objects decayed, things were consumed, eggs hatched, people died, stars exploded. Mike & Laurent bumped into each other at the stucco and Mike joined dOris as their new guitarist. dOris died too, and the duo carried on the bleak torch of slower tar. Alexande Girard (Porno Coma guitarist) joined on drums and September 12 was born

"Power Methan" is the 4 song / 80 minutes demo the band recorded when it was called September 12.

"S12" is the 4 song album the band recorded when it changed its name to CortisoL.
The first release (may 2004) was 50 printed CDRs in vinyl sleeve with yellow & black artwork, band name : September 12 - album title : CortisoL - track list : 0 to 3. 
The second release was 50 printed CDRs in a white metal case, band name : CortisoL - album title : S12 - track list : 0 to 5. 
The third release was produced by D7i and Prodisk in 2006, 500 CDs witth a two panels color booklet and 3 extra tracks (2 from "Power Methan", 1 Dentïst/CortisoL jam)..

"Meat" is the 4 song album the band recorded in 2005 when Pierre-Luc Simon (from As A River) joined on drums.
Released by Great White North (nowProdisk) through a press of 500 CDs with a 3 panels color booklet. This booklet claims the album was also released on 12" vinyl. This is a myth. However we can accomodate lovers of fine attire with a most excellent double-sided color-on-black t-shirt.

After "Meat" was recorded, the urge to play fast things took over. But CortisoL had a strong faith in low end compulsion and rhythmic freeze. So CortisoL forged an alias under the name of Dentïst to cook its own blend of thrash/punk/sludge. Although the true story of Dentïst is more complicated, it actually started as a parallel entity of its own with Simon Paré of Global Holocaust, Martin Choquette (then of Akuma and Sonicosity mastermind) and Laurent. Anyway....
Along with the 3 genuine CortisoL doom dolmens listed below, 10 Dentïst tracks complete the split CD "Only meat... Israel". Released by Northern Bitch on 1000 color CDs. 

CortisoL drew a not-as-final-as-expected breath in September of 2006 after an opening gig with the almighty Kayo Dot... at the same time, some Dentïst material was under delicate scrutiny, which became "Fleischkraft".

Since then, "Peace of Meat" has been composed, decomposed, recorded and released in limited form. Some copies are still available.

Time passed. Seasons and band members went and came. After a lenghty hiatus filled with introspection and stasis, the band returned. With Florent Bouchy (Paroxysm) now on Percussion duty and Charles Bernard added on lead guitar, the band recorded their newest ''Dentist flavored'' release ''Miss Trauen''. Now available thanks to cooperation with Suffering Jesus Productions.

www.september12doom.com or www.cortisoldoom.com

(2. Cortisol is a Punk band from Knoxville, TN. they are currently signed by Coffin Curse records and have one album out called You Never Won (2019). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/CortisoL">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.