Four (or more) artists have gone by the name Cortex: a French jazz-funk group from the 70s, a Swedish punk band, a Spanish metalcore band, a Macedonian thrash/death band and a experimental Belgian project by Alain Neffe, a Norwegian free jazz quartet.

1. A French jazz funk group from the seventies. 
Key members were Alain Mion (Piano) and Alain Gandolfi (drums, percussion). Cortex recorded several albums and singles for the Sonodisc label. 2 albums got re-issued: 'Troupeau Bleu' (on 'Dare-Dare') and 'Volume 2' (on 'Follow Me').

2.  A Swedish punk or post-punk band from Gothenburg.
Freddie Wadling sang the songs, played bass and wrote all the songs. Freddie Wadling had earlier played in many important swedish punk-bands as Liket Lever, Rukorna, and The Leather Nun, But Cortex was his own creation. Best Album is "Spinal Injuries" from 1980, with standout track "The Freaks" a song that should be worldfamous! It's the absolute pinnacle of swedish post-punk!
Cortex became Blue For Two (Freddie Wadling and Henryk Lipp) a New Wave-Synth Duo. After that Freddie Wadling worked with Fläskkvartetten, a string quartet concrete, then he went totally solo, and release albums in swedish as Freddie Wadling. He also did a full album with interpretations (covers) of Don Van Vliet (Captain Beefheart). There's loads more from this unique swedish artist. Check out this adress for more: http://www.freddiewadling.net/  

3. A Spanish [Torrelavega (Cantabria)]  metalcore band, playing since 1997. They released two albums "¿QUECOJONES ME PASA?" (2002) and in 2007 "LA DIGNIDAD DE LOS AVASALLADOS"

4. Cortex was Alain Neffe’s musical project before he started Bene Gesserit in 1982, his duo with partner Nadine Bal aka Benedict G. In 1981-82, the latter was then manager for Belgian New Wave band Digital Dance. Cortex was active between 1978 and 1982, their music focusing on electronic ambient tonalities and female poetry reading (in French), with tracks merely numbered by their respective letters – so presumably the entire Cortex output amounts to 26 tracks. Cortex A, B and C appeared on Insane Music For Insane People #01, 1981. Other tracks appeared on other compilations on Insane or elsewhere. ‘Souvenir/souvenirs’ is probably Cortex’s only full length release. The Belgian label Grafika Airlines published this tape as a joint release with Insane Music in 1984. My copy is the undated, Insane Music issue. Music-wise: The unsettling, metaphysical synth washes make one feel uneasy with their menacing tonalities, not unlike the 1972 Solaris soundtrack by Edward Artemiev. The readers are very young women just out of teenagehood. Their poetry deals with day-to-day concerns of late night cafés, neon lights, jukeboxes, the difficulty to find one’s place in society, lost love and lack thereof.

5. Cortex is a Macedonian death metal band that started playing in 2012. Short biography taken from their Facebook page: The story began in 2012 when the vocalist gathered up the drummer and the lead guitar player.We started to play thrash but we were not that type of guys,so after our first 2 songs we were struggling to write thrash metal and we simply turned into more brutal and darker stuff then before. That's the story behind us and here we are,making good music for our pleasure and the scene.
Keep it real, stay metal! https://www.facebook.com/cortexmk

6. Cortex is a spirited combo that plays energetic jazz of the finest brand. They have been active since 2007, and have performed over two hundred live-performances and released five critically acclaimed albums. The quartet consists of Thomas Johansson - trumpet, Kristoffer Alberts - saxophones, Ola Høyer - double bass, and Gard Nilssen - drums. The band positions itself as one of the strongest additions to the Norwegian jazz scene, and the members are amongst the most sought after young jazz performers in Norway today. 

They all have also marked their position in several other constellations such as: Bushman’s Revenge, Puma, PNL Large Unit, SAKA, All Included, Zanussi 5, Friends & Neighbors, Honest John, and The Heat Death.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cortex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.