1) Cosima Opârtan is widely known as one half of "Raze de Soare" (Future Nuggets). As a solo artist, she files her music under the genre widow pop - melancholically reaching out to the past and the future in one gesture.
She sings like someone addressing a beloved but faraway audience, or a trusted, distant relative who can only be seen through someone else's description. 

Cosima has a background as an architect which she shifted to designing sonic treatments for various spaces such as sound studios. She is also a founding member of the Queer Night, a series of itinerant parties engaging the local LGBTQ+ community and part of Corp., a Bucharest based platform dedicated to supporting and promoting female & female identified musical talent.

"Ploaia" has been co-composed and produced by Ion Dumitrescu, known to all Pingipung afficionados for his 7inch as Ion din Dorobanți (Pingipung 056) who also runs the never failing Future Nuggets label.
On the flip side, the two team up with Horațiu Șerbănescu, an artist from the Future Nuggets roster releasing music as "Plevna".
credits
released April 12, 2019

2) Cosima was born and raised in Peckham, South East London. Her musical influences go beyond her surroundings and Cuban, German & Italian heritage. Home schooled and self taught, Cosima has always been on her path of discovery. She found her voice whilst staying with her grandparents in rural Germany, where she met a classic singing teacher that helped her to realise her own voice. Cosima is fully in charge of her artistry, from her music to her visuals, she has a complete vision for where she is going.

Her acclaimed debut 'Had To Feel Something' was described by Sunday Times Culture as "a brooding, small-hours, electro-soul stunner. In a word: wow", and by Clash Music as "seductive future soul with an electronic edge… a truly killer vocal from the rising talent”. 

Cosima’s second song 'Girls Who Get Ready' stakes a bold claim for her as an unparalleled new talent. It draws inspiration from the duality between the negativity of mainstream perceptions of what makes a woman desirable and the fun to be had when getting ready to go out with her girlfriends, all the while married to an insistent pop tune. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cosima">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.