Coughee Brothaz is best known as the entourage and backing sound of Houston’s Devin the Dude. They have released 2 full length albums, which can be found in two different formats. A pre-release version of the album, entitled “Collector’s Edition” was available via the internet until the final “Waitin’ Our Turn” was released in 2007. Now they are back with "Fresh Brew" which is being quickly received as an instant classic.
In 2007 Devin Copeland established his own label, Coughee Brothaz Music and began releasing independent music directly to his fans via the internet with the Coughee Brothaz. He followed those efforts by bolstering his tour schedule performing everywhere from California, to New York, and Vancouver to Amsterdam. Reuniting with his Odd Squad brethren Rob Quest and Jugg Mugg, collaborating with Smit-D, E-Rock, Slim Thug, K-Rino, Rum, Tony Mack, Lisa Luv, 14K and 3BN as well as many long time acquaintances and new friends will ensure that his newest effort will be one to remember. Coughee Brothaz Music is a promotional record label to launch the careers of solo artists, groups, and producers.
Members include: 
Devin The Dude, Jugg Mugg, Rob Quest, 14K, DJ Domo, 3BN, Man Child(Reco), Smit D(Face Mob), E, Rock(5thward Boys), Tony Mac, Rum, Slim Thug, K-Rino, Snap, Kabar, KB(Big Hoss), Crazy Ass Todd, Warren Lee, Petey Wheastra, Mike Ro, Java, KC, Mirage, Reggie Coby, Mike B, John Brown, Luster Baker, Destrukshon, Phonixbeats, Sendar, IllFadded, Pace Master(Craft Works), iMix, iMedia, Street Boy, C Ray, Chris P Black, Kevin Range, Boomer, Coughee Brotha Tony, D Lac, Pookie, Good Grief, Road Dogs in New Boston, Loc, Ivory, Gabo, Shell V, 3BN, Warren Lee, D.J., SK Mac, Lil T, Cayse, Ben Diggin, Lamont, Short Dog, Greg Main, Tre, KB, Boonie Locc, Daraja, Bobby Phats, Kerijames, Coughee Sistaz (PD Green, Erica, T, Lisa Love), Mr.T(ony), Head,  Coughee Brotha K.O.(R.I.P.), MoLew, Innocents, and abunchamo brothaz and sistaz
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Coughee+Brothaz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.