Courtney Marie Andrews (born November 7, 1990) is an American singer-songwriter originally from Phoenix, Arizona. She released her first widely distributed and breakthrough album, Honest Life, in 2016. From 2010 to 2011, Andrews was an auxiliary member of Jimmy Eat World, appearing on their 2010 album Invented and acting as their keyboardist and backing vocalist on the subsequent tour.

Known for an eclectic style that incorporates elements of folk, country, and indie pop, Andrews began penning her own lyrics in her early teens and began touring at the age of 16. She  eventually made her way east to New York City, landing work as a backing singer and session guitarist for many established artists, including Damien Jurado and Jimmy Eat World.  

She made her full-length debut in 2016 with her album, Honest Life. Having stated that the bulk of the album's songs were written while she was in Belgium for four  months and feeling homesick, Andrews finished writing after arriving home and taking a job bartending at a tavern just outside of Seattle. Establishing a rapport with some of the patrons of the bar, she realized that there were unifying themes in the cycle of life and humanity in the songs she'd been writing. Released by Mama Bird Recording Co. and Loose Music (Europe), 'Honest Life' received widespread acclaim from critics, and Andrews signed with Fat Possum in 2017. The following year, Andrews’ second full-length album, May Your Kindness Remain, was released. Recorded in Los Angeles with producer Mark Howard (Lucinda Williams, Bob Dylan), it addressed the theme of empathy within the sociopolitical climate of the day with soulful vocal performances. 

In June 2018, Rolling Stone named May Your Kindness Remain as one of the 25 Best Country and American Albums of 2018. In the United Kingdom, The Guardian similarly listed the album as one of the 25 Best Albums of 2018.

Andrews' announced her album 'Old Flowers' will be out June 5 2020 along with the first single, 'If I Told' and follow-up music video for the second single, "Burlap String".  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Courtney+Marie+Andrews">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.