There is more than One Artist with this name.


1)Metalcore From Saalfeld ,East Germany

2) Crackdown was also an Italian hardcore band formed in 1996.

3) Crackdown is : Zangari Francesco singer, producer/ sound engineer Francesco started composing and playing with little equipment some years ago, trasported from the great passion for muisc.... His musical influences comes from all the scene 80, from new wave synth pop to Electro/ industrial of groups that have made the story of music like: Kraftwerk , John Foxx, Cabaret Voltaire, Nitzer Ebb, Depeche Mode, Duran Duran, Visage and many others....but they compose several shapes of electronic music !! he play live in Club/Disco, their live performances are indeed particular, each songs on mix dj set, is enriched e modified by use of synths and many effects. Francesco had worked for an EP Noise To Noia on Space Factory , David Carretta s label one of the most best and famous electronic producers/ dj, the Ep will go out very soon. The vinyl include 3 tracks: Red Light Mirrors , Off Transmission and Mandarine 686 . Another release will go out in next soon future on BluFin Records, here the family artists is formed of big names like : John Acquaviva,Tobias Lutzenkirchen, Kolombo, Ramon Zenker etc... The vinyl will be composed from 2 tracks: Sensoria and Politic Velvet with a precious Kolombo rmx of A track side. BluFin is managed from Andrea Engels, his label it s considered one of the best new electro/techno label of the scene! Francesco has worked also with Stereoseven, one of the most known and appreciates label in Italy for electro music with a single vinyl Persons Scream with A.Bertolini rmx, that is go out now !! Crackdown are collaborating now also with Neo Filigrante (member one of International Deejay Gigolo staff), for a very nice soon release on theirs Filigrante Rec. Ohters works are currently in progress, stay tuned with this him for next future release...

3) Crackdown was also an Italian hardcore band formed in 1996. They toured Europe with Earth Crisis in 1999.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crackdown">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.