Following the death of founding member Paul Kossoff, the remaining members of the band Back Street Crawler (John 'Rabbit' Bundrick, Tony Braunagel, Terry Wilson and Terry Wilson-Slesser) decided that it would be best to move on to both another record label and another manager. There is and was a history of problems with the band members obtaining record and publishing royalties from the original manager of Paul Kossoff.

Atlantic Records' Ahmet Ertegun had wanted to replace Paul Kossoff with Mick Taylor, who had left the Rolling Stones, however Taylor did not want to replace a musician who had died. Back Street Crawler bassist Terry Wilson had dinner with ex-Fleetwood Mac guitarist Peter Green in London to find out whether Peter's reclusive and unusual lifestyle had changed his mind about wanting to play or be in the music business. Green was not ready to return to the stage and therefore turned-down Crawler's offer. The band then recruited former If guitarist Geoff Whitehorn. The band was then dropped by Atlantic Records, due to Whitehorn's then relative obscurity.

The band switched management to a young American named Abe Hoch, who was working at Swan Song Records at the time with Led Zeppelin manager Peter Grant. Hoch had close ties with Epic/CBS Records and obtained an offer from them. Band members then shortened the band name to Crawler.

Crawler initially toured the UK as part of a package tour which included label mates Boxer and Moon. Their debut album, Crawler, did well in the US, thanks to airplay of the track "Stone Cold Sober", on FM radio stations. The band concentrated on the American market. Working with producer Gary Lyons, they released a second album, Snake, Rattle & Roll.

An exhaustive series of live performances saw Crawler as the support band for Robin Trower, Cheap Trick, and Foreigner, and a 54-date tour across the US as support band for Kansas. At the end of a US tour in December 1978, keyboard player John 'Rabbit' Bundrick left to work with The Who. The band folded soon afterwards.

Crawler had limited commercial success but charted the single "Stone Cold Sober" which reached a peak on Billboard Hot 100 at number 65 in November 1977.

In recent years, a number of live albums, including Snakebite (2001) and Pastime Dreamer (2003), recorded during tours in 1977 and 1978, have been released from John Bundrick's private collection of recordings.


There are other various artists named Crawler:

1) Crawler is an unsigned Grime MC from Leeds, UK.

3) Crawler is a hardcore/sludge/Power Violence band from Auckland, New Zealand. They self released their self titled EP which can be downloaded for free at their band camp.Bandcamp. A track also featured on the 12" compilation Welcome To The Arse-End Of The World that was released by Always Never Fun Records. Members have also played in bands such as Tentacles Of Destruction, Smashin' Off, Freudoids, Cask Grinder, Filthy Lucifer and Sex Pest

4) Crawler is a  4-piece doom metal band from San Francisco, California.  The group released their first demo "International Milk: The Demo" in October of 2010. Download it for free at their bandcamp here.

5) CRaWLeR: Indie band started in 1999, sometimes referred as CRWLR, based in Paris, FR.
The original lineup was: Laurent (Voice & Keyboards), Vivian (Guitars) & Xavier (Bass), accompanied by various drummers.
In 2008 Xavier went separate ways to work on his other band, Necroblaspheme.
Later this year, they found their manager and publisher.
After various lineups, the band now consists in just Laurent & Vivian, accompanied, depending on the situation, by computers and samplers, Gérard Cartoixa on drums, Fabricio Nicolas on bass, Clarisse Alvado on backing vocals.
More at CRaWLeR official website, http://www.crawler.mu or myspace.com/crwlr

6) CRAWLER: Japanese NS Oi!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crawler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.