There are more than one band with this name:

1) Crawl is typically associated with the drum machine driven death metal inspired industrial metal band who hailed from Green Bay, Wisconsin in the US.  The band originally started off as Bleed and played a much more death metal sound in their previous name.  Under the name Crawl, the band still maintained that death metal sound but added more of an Godflesh influence to their style, which was most evident in the vocal style as well as guitar tones and style.  Their first album "Earth," released in 1995, had re-recorded songs from the Bleed album "Womb" plus new tracks.  Up to the second album "Construct, Destroy, Rebuild," released in 1996 on Olympic Records, the band incorporated an actual drummer and shifted their sound away from death metal and played a more hardcore influenced industrial metal sound.  The band has disbanded after releasing the album.

2) There once existed a early 90's Swedish death metal band with this name as well presumed to be taken from the Entombed song "Crawl."  They released one demo entitled "After Grace" in 1992 packed with five songs.

3) [most important] CRAWL is a powerviolence band comprised of students from Philadelphia. Made up of current and former members of Hightode Hotel, The Domino Theory, and Hollows. Although the band has only played one show at the Rudich Ranch in Easton, PA.  Their future is up in the air because of heckling from the Lehigh Valley punk scene they have played in.  The line up includes Griffin on vocals, Chris on guitar, Andrew on bass, and Ben on drums. There is only one release from the band in tape form, along with a bootleg recording of their infamous first live set.

4) "band crawl is some kids from denver...just changed their name from dethbox i am pretty sure...17 year old kids who think they run the scene...i have seen them throw an amp at an observer and almost hit a touring bands drumset...this band is horrible talk shit to them" - vivalavinyl message board  (DEMO http://www. mediafire .com/download.php?bi4vdwjnzoy)

5) this guy from clevo apparently makes some stuff with some sounds that he makes and/or steals and records now

6) Crawl is a one-man experimental sludge project from San Antonio TX. With his vocal mic shrouded in a parastacoidean mask, Emperor Crawl drums with one hand while, with the other, he controls a home-built bass string instrument made of actual bones. He likes to build things, he says, and to run sound through a wall of amps. The result is eloquently blackened doom with nods to Khanate's Things Viral and Sunn O)))'s Black One.

7) Crawl is a doom/sludge band in Atlanta, Georgia.

8) Crawl is an old school Swedish Death metal band from Gothenburg/Kalmar formed in 2014 in the likes of Entombed, Entrails and Dismember among others. Not to be confused with the band from the 90's with the same name mentioned above. Has so far released two EPs (I: Serpents and Worship Death) and one album (Rituals). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crawl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.