Crayven’s music can best be described as the ideal mix between hardrock and (heavy) metal. The band doesn’t aim to be a copy of the major bands of the past. Instead, the diversity of musical background and preferences of each member give a unique blend, creating a sound that is not your average hardrock- metalband sound. This blend consists of a strong foundation of drums and bass, followed by stremming guitars and a strong vocal. Since the founding of the band there has been a non-stop effort to get the band in the spot lights. In the studio as well as on the stage. 

The foundations of Crayven date back to the Fall of 2006, when bass player Simon and drummer Rik joined their musical ambitions to create a serious, original and especially energetic band. Not much later that year the voice and front-woman of the band was found in Machteld. This made Crayven a fact. Under the motto of: “Something’s better than nothing”, the three recorded a simple demo called “The Beast”. This demo clearly showed the need for a guitar player, and not very short after this that call was answered by Ivo. With Ivo strengthening the ranks, the band was complete for the moment and started to write their own material. 

Arriving in 2007 and still in the early stages of the band. Crayven got the opportunity to play at “de Grote Prijs van Leusden”. This first show contributed greatly to the learning proces and made the band want more. Shortly some acoustic guitar performances were added to the list, but the need for a better demo became quite opvouw. Due to budget limitations and recording options there was still no studio recording. Nonetheless the resulting demo was titled Colosseum and was a major improvement. 

In 2007 the band mainly focussed on writing new and original material to take with them on the stage. From 2008 and onwards the focuss shifted to the stage and the studio. With the growing number of shows to be played at, a serious studio demo was needed. With the help of the facilities of SAE Institute Amsterdam, this first serious demo was a fact and released in 2008. The demo contained two songs which was confirmation that Crayven had developed itself from a group of friends making music, to a group of friends playing in a rock band. 

In the early months of 2009, the long quest of finding a seconde guitar player was ended. Pepijn joined the band and this definitely led to a new era within the group. Crayven, now at full strength is working to get its name on the bandposters and venue doors near you! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crayven">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.