Creaturezoid started as a Black Flag style punk band in the fall of 2008 when former members of Norsefire, bassist Alec Stanley and Guitarist Zach stone, teamed up to create agressive angry music that would be simple enough for them each to learn a new instrument. Alec chose vocals, while Zach tried his hand at drums. After a short period of this set up the duo realized they would need a string section and enlisted the assistance of mutual friend Dan Peck on bass. This line up existed for some time before the final addition of Chris Geringer (also ex. Norsefire) on guitar thus completing the "classic" Creaturezoid lineup. It was around this time that the band switched their focus from punk to Thrash metal as none of the members were in a functioning metal band anymore. After auditioning several rythem guitar players and finding
no good fits Alec took up rhythm guitar duties along with vocals and the band began playing live. 

After a series of successful shows and a positively received demo Creaturezoid took to the studio in march of 2010 to record their debut E.P "It Came From Beneath The Sea". Following the recording of the E.P. Zach Stone announced his departure from the group in order to focus on solo projects. This loss led the band to reconsider their goals and set up and Guitarist Eric Childers (Recant) was recruited so that Alec could spend more time refining the vocals and presentation of the band. The void left by Zachs sudden departure was filled by Cody Garnett (Headlights to Sunset, Teddy DuChamp) until bassist
Dan Peck was moved to the throne in the fall of 2010. Filling the sizable hole next to the bass amp would be Jack Geringer (Ex. Faithless Massacre) sadly Eric would also leave before 2010 closed and Creaturezoid again looked to the ashes of Faithless Massacre and enlisted Isaac "The Steadiest Rhythm Guitarist Ever" Stickann thus completing the long awaited "Revenge" lineup. 

Creaturezoid continues to hone and refine its unique blend of horror movie aesthetic, Punk intensity, and heavy fucking metal to this day as they march ever forward to speed metal oblivion. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Creaturezoid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.