Gothic Metal band from Hungary

2005:

The idea of Creatures of Dawn was born in march 2005 when Lily tried to find a band of her own in Budapest! While searching in different kind of music forums, she finally managed to find a band searching for a new vocalist! She wrote a letter to that band, it was Csabi who answered her, that they already found a vocalist for that band! But Csabi told her also, that he and the bassgitarplayer Andris wanted to have another band too, because of their old band started to become boring! So Lily only had to find a drummer and a keyboarder for that new band!

After a search of three days, she found the missing bandmembers Barna (keyboard) and Joco (drums)! And after 2 weeks they had their first practice day, which was a big success! At the beginning they only played cover songs, such as Nemo (Nightwish), Replica (Sonata Arctica) or Eagleheart (Stratovarius)! But after 2 or 3 month they started to write their own songs, the first song was "Nightmare", followed by "Hope in the Dark" and "Helios-sphere"! The backingtrack are all written by Andris, the vocal scores and the lyrics are all written by Lily!

 

2006:

 

After a long period of practice and writing songs, they finally felt strong enough to have their first koncert, which took place in march 2006 at the Rézmal Café in Budapest!

In July-August 2006 the band had to make a very hard decision by firing the drummer Joco!

After a period of auditions till October 2006 they found their new drummer Miki, which was one of the best decisions the band ever made!

They had the first koncert with the new drummer in december 2006, which was a big success to all of them!

The end of 2006 and the beginning of 2007 was a very creative time for the band! At that time they wrote many great songs such as "Island ot the Sirens", Devilslayer" and "Ladyhawk" (you find these three songs on their demo album "Being Created" made in 2007)

 

2007:

 

After several concerts they decided to record their first demo album!

Im march 2007 the band went into the studios in Dunaujváros to record three songs for the album, which last two days! And after 3 week they released their first demo "being created"! You can order the cd at this homepage!

In the summer the keyboarder Barna decided to leave the band, which was quite an easement for the band! The band is at the moment searching for a new keyboarder, there are some auditions now to find the right guy for this job!!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Creatures+Of+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.