The concept for Crematorium was born in Los Angeles, during the hot summer months of 1991. Through the years, Crematorium has withstood the test of time and numerous line-up changes, developing an original sound with an infusion of European Death Metal, New York Hardcore, thrash, doom, ambient noise and black metal. They coined the resulting genre as "murdercore": a ground-breaking new force in the metal underground.

Signing with fledgling Prosthetic Records in 2002, Crematorium released an album (For All Our Sins) that put Murdercore on the map. Since then, Crematorium has appeared onstage with such classic bands as Cannibal Corpse, Cradle Of Filth, Emperor, Scars Of Tomorrow, Nile, Candiria, Arch Enemy, Obituary, Shadows Fall, 18 Visions, Impaled Nazarene, Mayhem, Diecast, Catastrophic, Sinai Beach, Phobia and Suffocation. Crematorium has toured with such as bands as All That Remains, Origin, Aborted, Scar Culture, Cephalic Carnage, December, Immolation, Grave, Goatwhore, Nodes Of Ranvier, Glass Casket, Reflux, Vehemence, All Shall Perish,Animosity, Rag Men, Hoods, Donnybrook, Nuclear Assualt, The Red Death, As I Lay Dying, The Mercury Switch, Deicide, Vital Remains, Desolation, The Judas Cradle, Misery Index, Fuck The Facts, Pyrexia, Infernaeon, Sons Of Azrael and Blessing The Hogs.

In 2004, Crematorium put out several limited-edition releases, toured extensively, then returned to Los Angeles with a new mission. Their goal for 2005 was to amaze the countless amounts of fans and supporters with a new album that would mark musical history. During the months of October and November, Crematorium headed into D2 Studios with DD Ehrlich (Slipknot) to record The Process Of Endtime. Featuring a more streamlined approach to Murdercore, Crematorium doubles the intensity of all their elements, tapping into raw emotion and speed while upping the lyrical bar. The Process Of Entime marks the process of a new beginning for Crematorium.

Crematorium is currently planning on recording a new EP full of new songs, live versions of old songs and a few cover songs from bands that helped shape what Crematorium is today. A European tour is FINALLY in the works so the wait is almost over for all the overseas fans. Crematorium is still going to tour the US but a break might be taken in 2008 so the band can concentrate on overseas as well as recording.

Source: Crematorium's Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crematorium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.