2001 was the year zero, under the name Nekros, formed by Tanatos and Animus Atra

in Sao Paulo - Brazil. Without great pretensions of the mainstream, the goal was to play the Black Metal in its rawest form, with simple riffs and direct lyrics, influenced by bands such as Gorgoroth, Marduk and Sarcófago.

In 2003, the band was renamed as CREPTUM and after setting the line-up with Tanatos (vocals/guitar), Animus Atra (drums), Deimous Nefus (bass) and Anduscias (guitar), was recorded the first material, "... make this world burn".

Even after the good response from the public to the first demo, Tanatos leaves the band in 2004. In the same year, with a new line-up, Animus Atra (drums), Deimous Nefus

(guitar), Necro Occult Lord (vocals) and Phlegethon (bass), the band recorded their second studio material, "The Age of Darkness."

After finishing presentations to promote this work, the band decided to get away for a while from the stage and studio. This hiatus lasted about 8 years, with the return announced in 2013.

In 2014 happens the ultimate return, with the re-recording of the demo "The Age of Darkness" in an EP format with two bonus tracks, re-recorded from the "...make this world burn" .demo. The bassist Bast has joined the band and 2014 also marked our return to the stage.

Also in this year, was started the preparations for the release of a new material with new songs. During the writing process, Bast had to move away from the band and for her place was recruited the bassist T. Aversvs. In August 2015, was released the single "In The Arms of Death" with two songs of the debut album, and a cover song

for the classic "Massacre", from the legendary Bathory.

In February 2016, was signed a deal with Mutilation Records and the release of the debut, called "Of Lies, Curses and Blood", happened in September of the same year.

Still Black… Still Metal...

Creptum is alive!

Line-up:
Animus Atra (drums) | Tanatos (guitar/vocals) | Deimous Nefus (guitar) | T. Aversvs (bass) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Creptum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.