Formed in 1992 by guitarist and vocalist, Marissa Martinez, and bassist, Matt Widener, Cretin was the Santa Cruz Mountains' answer to the new wave of death metal and grind that was infesting the scene. They spent two years with a multitude of different drummers and ultimately put the band on hold to focus on other things. Cretin laid dormant while Widener joined gore metal band, Exhumed, in 1994 where he met drummer, Col Jones. In 1996, Widener went insane and left the band to enlist in the Marines, while Martinez pursued a career in video game production. Like a deformed fetus, pickled in a jar, Cretin slept—stunted—in the glory era of late '80s and early '90s grindcore. And when it woke, it was angry. Cretin was resurrected in 2003 when Col Jones quit Exhumed and the three decided that the underground needed a dose of real grind. The trio recorded a demo in 2004, titled Cretanic Grind Ambush, that Relapse Records released as an Underground Series 7". Relapse Records then signed the band in 2005. 

"We're very proud to be part of the Relapse roster," Martinez says, "a label that has represented grind and death metal for over ten years. We hope to make everyone proud." Widener, who also fronts political grindcore band, Citizen, says, "Relapse is the perfect home for Cretin; really, the only one I can imagine. I'm glad that they're giving us this chance." Jones, who still drums for thrash metal band, Dekapitator, admits, "I've been with Relapse for years, and I know Cretin can deliver the goods."

First up for Cretin was a split release with label-mates, Pig Destroyer, released by Relapse Records. Cretin released their first full-length album, Freakery, in 2006. Senses were debauched. Eardrums, assaulted. Prepare for the cretanic grind invasion. The second full-length album, Stranger, in 2014.



Cretin is:



Marissa Martinez: guitars / vocals 
Matt Widener: bass
Col Jones: drums
Elizabeth Schall: guitar




Cretin online:

www.cretanic.com 
www.myspace.com/cretanic
www.hxcmp3.com/Cretin
www.livejournal.com/community/cretanic <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cretin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.