Crimson is a name of at least eight acts:

1) A pseudonym of Simon Gregory, a Milton Keynes, UK trance producer, who has been producing as a hobby for over ten years. His début album was "Targus" (Jul 2010, Camouflage), other recent releases have included singles "Sky" (Oct 2010, Mondo) and "Stardust" (May 2011, Mondo).

After becoming more serious about producing and having taken inspiration from a number of his favourite artists, Simon invested a lot more time and money into his home studio in an effort to push his music out to the record labels, his dream to release music through a record label. After getting to grips with his new studio equipment, and having written a couple of tracks he was happy with, he sent demos of his work to Bonzai music. The response was positive, and he then entered into a deal with Bonzai to release his first track to the masses, entitled Genesis. Since signing, he has produced a few more tracks also picked up by Bonzai, and also remixed a couple of well established artists on their rosters. He hopes this is the beginning of a long standing future in the music industry and looks forward to seeing how things will shape up.

Sites: Discogs

2) A Stoner Metal band. Their playing style includes unusually heavily distorted guitars. They released a Demo in 2000.

3) A Darkfolk/Ambient project with a debut album called "Fading" released in 2009. 

4) A Heavy Metal band. They come form Norway and play very melodic heavy metal, but they also have a little thrash in some of their music.

5) A four piece Rock band hailing from County Westmeath, Ireland. Their debut album "Untamed Underground Unwell" was released in 2010.

6) An Underground Hip Hop Artist from Harlem, New York City.

7) A young EDM producer from South Florida.

8) A piano-driven indie rock band from Japan active between 2005-2013. It was fronted by Kozue Kawahara (vocals, guitar) and featured Mari Fukushige (later known as ChanMari from Gesu no Kiwami Otome) on keyboards. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crimson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.