The formation of Crimsonfire is really a combination of fate, chance and coincidence.

The founding members Louie, Anthony and Diane first crossed paths in the winter of 1997, where Louie auditioned for a band that Anthony and Diane were in called "Crystal Chamber."
Although being impressed with Louie's vocal abilities, it wasn’t meant to be – as another opportunity had arisen for Louie, who went to pursue and work in a Bon Jovi tribute band.

15 months later – in the spring of 1998 – after listening to Bruce Dickinson’s chemical wedding and not working in a tribute band anymore – Louie's aspirations turned to form a metal band. Having remembered the musical abilities and professional attitudes of Anthony and Diane, Louie was curious to what they were currently up to.

So after all that time – Louie contacted Anthony, mistakenly asking for Simon, and a meeting was arranged with Anthony and Diane. They quickly clicked on a musical and personal level and began discussing their intentions of forming a metal band, as well our musical style /direction.

In the next few months the name was created and the first four Crimsonfire songs were written – as well as the introduction of bass player Paul, who answered one of our adverts and undertook an unusual audition process – by auditioning us.

Having liked the band and the band liking his abilities – it was a go ahead, Pauly was an ex- covers bassist and now a bass played for a metal band, leaving the painful task of finding a great drummer- and a great drummer we did find.

Long time friend and former band mate of Anthony – drummer Dominic (who had just departed from a metal band in Melbourne) was introduced to Crimsonfire. Having being impressed with his drumming abilities and Dom displaying keen interest in the bands direction / style – Crimsonfire were more than happy have Dom as the new drummer, and by the winter of 1999 Crimsonfire was a full line up.

"Finding a line up with all members having the same attitude of professionalism , is probably harder than winning a lottery ticket – as five of us may have learned at some point early in our music careers.

In December 2008, Paul was replaced by Damian "Omad" and the band went straight back to working on their second full length album.

In Crimsonfire there is no bullshit / or egos - but five people pursuing a passion they believe in"- says Louie. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crimsonfire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.