There are two bands under the name Criminally Insane.

1) Hardcore band featuring members of Fucked Up and No Warning.

2) CI has been playing and destroying for 6 years with their thrash/ death metal attack. CI recorded their first demo, titled "Thrash Metal" at Watchmen Studios with producer Doug White on October 30th, 2001, bringing songs like "Johnathan" and "Bring out the Dead" to the metal world.

In 2002, Their first full length album, appropriately titled Darkness of the Mind, was received with constant praise.

2003 marked the release of the "Nameless Fear" EP, with songs like the brutal "Zombie Infestation" and the epic "Vespers". Nameless Fear was also the first time CI released an enhanced cd, including live videos, "Making of" videos, and tons of extra bonus features. Since this benchmarking release, enhanced cd's have become a guarantee in all of CI's releases since.

CI's popularity skyrocketed, and their fans supported them on the road at live performances in Erie, Cleveland, Buffalo, Youngstown, Pittsburgh and more, including opening for national acts such as Incantation, Skinless, Dope, Slaves on Dope and Overkill. CI was also named a finalist in Erie's 2004 Metal Search. CI are soon to be featured on an upcoming "A Tribute to Anthrax" album, out from Sharkbite Records, after recording the classic track "Indians".

In the summer of 2004, CI's next EP titled "Buried and Back Again", has been making heads turn since its release . The classic CI song "Bring out the Dead" has been featured in the new zombie movie, "Swamp Zombies".

On Halloween Weekend of 2005, the newest EP, titled "Condemned...", marking the bands groundbreaking 5th studio release, one again recorded at Watchmen studios, and like 2 other CI releases featured enhanced materials with live videos and a new "Making of" video, has been thrashing the underground metal scene to pieces since its release.

2006 has been a busy year for CI already, with a second performance with Overkill and much more "Live Insanity" to follow. 2006 will also feature an upcoming "Live Insanity '06" DVD, and a return to Watchmen Studios to record the soon to be heard single, currently named "Atomic Zombie Bomb". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Criminally+Insane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.