There are 2 bands that go by the name Criminal Justice.
Ken Kennedy - Vocals (Forsaken (Deu))
Ray Falcon - Guitars
Rainer Ulbrich - Bass
Mario - Drums

It all started in Berlin - Zehlendorf in 1986: guitar, bass and drums. In 1987, singer Ken Kennedy joined the band, coming straight from the legendary Bay Area of San Francisco. All four musicians moved to Schöneberg (temporary home of David Bowie in the '70's), right around the corner of the famous "SOUND" disco. In 1988, the band appeared live for the first time and entered the Musiclab studios to record a demo cassette. At the same time, Criminal Justice befriended a band called Depressive Age, whose members had just fled from the former GDR. However, before they were re-united in the West, more and more members of Depressive Age moved into Poldi's small one-bedroomed flat. Playing together with their mates Tankard in the legendary Quartier Latin club, Criminal Justice broke some walls in the backstage arera. Not much later, the whole Berlin Wall would be crumbling. In 1989/90 Harris Johns recorded the band's second demo at his Musiclab studios. Several companies showed interest to sign the band but nothing came out of it. Some 15 years later, it was Berlin-based label Iron Pages Records who put out both demos on vinyl: »Burning the Infidel«. The video to "Burning The Infidel" was re-mastered and wrote history: It was aired at the very last public event of the late (and today demolished) Palast der Republik.


Early 80`s punk band that played local gigs in and around HUDDERSFIELD.biggest influences....discharge, GBH, chaos uk, varukers ect 

Line up was Chaz-Vocals  Kitty-Bass  Nobby-Guitar  Brooky-Drums

They featured on ItVs First Tuesday documentary in 1985
They had two tracks on Sane records 'On the Streets'in 1983 ....Machines & Systems & Middle east mayhem
An EP was released in 1985 on Endangered Music entitled 'heirarchy of hell'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Criminal+Justice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.