There are several bands named Crimson Shadows

1.
Melodic death/power metal from Brampton, Ontario, Canada (2006 - Present)

An eruption of Power and Death has caused the spawn of a new breed. Crimson Shadows have fused two of the mightiest sub genres of metal thus creating an audible journey for listeners worldwide. The death vocals teamed with incredible riffs and solos create the type of energy that is enough to keep us thirsting for more. The intensity of the music is as ferocious as fighting the fires a dragon and as captivating as riding on a white unicorn through an enchanted forest to rescue a princess.

At the very beginning of 2006, brothers Ryan and Cory accompanied with band mate Greg decided to assemble a team of dedicated musicians to create a type of metal that has not yet been heard. The three members, all of which at the time where involved in the band Swords of Scorn asked their friend Jimi (a stand in vocalist at the time) if he would be interested in joining the threesome as lead vocalist. Jimi without hesitation accepted their offer and suggested asking his then band member from Intensify Sean if he would be interested in playing bass for the now foursome. Sean liked the concept of the music and joined right away finishing off the ensemble we now know as Crimson Shadows.

Having been together for only a year they have managed to create a stage presence that captivates fans throughout their entire performance. With the use of wireless electric guitars Ryan and Greg interact on a much closer level with the crowd. Crimson Shadows is without a doubt one of the next big metal acts to emerge from Canada.

2. 
Crimson Shadows, a band formed in 2008 in Minnesota by four high schoolers offers a combination of heavy instrumentals and lyrics that will touch your heart.

3.
Swedish 1980s garage rock revival band. Band members later played in bands like The Wylde Mammoths, The Stomach Mouths and The Maggots. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crimson+Shadows">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.