Crimfall is a folk metal with female lead vocals band from Finland.

Crimfall is a young soul; it came to being on a wildfire season, Autumn 2007 as one man's vision. Jakke composed a demo of three songs just for himself but he soon noticed that the material was unique, diverse and strong to stand on its own feet in front of wider audiences. What was still needed was some talent to fulfill the forceful yet melancholic music he had composed, someone to bring the stories of songs to life with voice of both beauty and power. In the end Jakke decided to bring two people to finish his line-up, voices with contrast and variance, as Mikko and Helena joined the band. So was the first recording of Crimfall born, “Burning Winds”.

Napalm Records immediately took interest on this group and signed the band. Fires of creativity burned strong and a studio was booked for summer. After furious songwriting that bled the members of Crimfall dry they entered the Adamantium Studios with handful of skillful session members. Janne Jukarainen hammered the pulse of battle as Henri Sorvali supported the beat with his seasoned bass-work. Adorned with live strings, accordion and other weird instruments best left in shadows the record was finished after months of arduous campaign. World witnessed the birth of sharpened and bloodied debut album, “As the Path Unfolds…”!
The music of Crimfall is eluding to describe as it wears many masks and disguises. You can hear influences of grim-frost north and its folk metal, even echoes from cold black metal in Mikko’s demonic screams and lyrics, but this all is layered with massive orchestrations and epic atmosphere that draw from legendary movie soundtracks. Indeed the album conquers the feelings of majesty and journeys lost, with melodies and angelic voice of Helena that bring forth the uncompromising feelings, contrast of the ascended light and the fallen shadow.


Core members:
Jakke Viitala - Guitar, bass, programming
Mikko Häkkinen - Vocals
Helena Haaparanta - Vocals

Releases:
Burning Winds (DEMO 2008)
As the Path Unfolds... (CD 2009)
The Writ of Sword (CD 2011)

www.crimfall.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crimfall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.