In 1997 Crimson Garden (France) started as a duo, devoting themselves body and soul to the composition of songs reflecting their depressive musical feelings and the melancholy of their beings. Carole (bass, vocals) et Bruno (guitars, keyboard, vocals) recorded their first five-track demo tape, "The Haunt of Fear" (sold out at 500 copies).

From 1997 to 1998 the band withdrew to Scotland , where the landscape's beauty and mystery inspired them for the composition of new tracks. They became more and more interested in the figure of Lilith, the first Eve, and started to compose a concept album in the manner of a play, with dialogues between her, Adam, Samael and Lucifer.

In 1999 the Spanish label Drama & Sin Company came out their first album “The Dark Mother”, which telling on 10 musical painting the story of Lilith, the one who disobey at the divine law ….

Their debut album was an overwhelming success and gained raving reviews among listeners as well as rock, metal and gothic magazines and radios. 1200 copies have been solded.

In 2000, they started to look for new members to play live. Noémie did integrate the band as a female singer, soon followed by Jérôme (guitar). After some gigs at 4, they started working on some brand new songs with these newly integrated members.

In 2001 Crimson Garden were required to take part in the "SUP Tribute" - a famous French band - with numerous other participants. Noémie did left the band, but luckly they found a new female singer : Essya, and in 2 weeks she worked and recorded the "Back From The Garden" SUP cover.

In 2002 "A tribute to SUP" is out on the Inner-Sides label. Crimson Garden also appear on the teaser CDs provided by "L'Ame Electrique" ( Belgium ) and "Vampiria Mag" ( Italy ). Carole leaves the band for living in USA , Benjamin (guitars) replaces her on bass, it's his first appearance Live and in the band. In fall of 2002 the MCD "Live in Marseille" is coming out, limited at 333 copies intented to ultimate fans.

In 2003, because the rest of the band did not show any desire to continue, Bruno composed and recorded alone 4 new tracks. Too much far away from Crimson Garden ' spirit, they became a side-project : “Embers”.

In 2004 Bruno goes back to composing and Benjamin join him. Together they make new tracks and evolve their style till to maturity.

In 2005 the duo is looking for a new singer, to sublimate this music which reflecting the darkness or their deepest beings.
In May 2005, they did record 3 tracks in studio to find a new label, who could come out their second album. Fabien (drums) to Aquilon (French band), very interesting by Crimson music, recorded the drums part and complete the line-up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crimson+Garden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.