Crionics formed in January 1997 in the city of Krakow, Poland. The first line up was then Waran on vocals, guitars, Yanuary on guitars, Marcotic on bass and Carol on drums. Their goal was to play fast and melodic metal music. A year after the band formed, they recorded five songs for a demo that never saw the light because of its bad production. About six months later the band decided to record a four-song "DEMO 98" which included the following tracks: Mystic Past, Pagan Strength, Black Warriors, and a cover of Emperor - I Am the Black Wizards. Because of the poor equipment the material wasn't exactly perfect, but the band decided to promote it anyway. They played a few shows and started looking for a keyboardist that would enhance their sound. Vac-V was the man that quickly became the missing link in their music and CRIONICS' music starts to sound more interesting and complete at their shows.

In the second half of 1999 Yanuary had to leave the band due to some musical and personal reasons. Later that year CRIONICS engaged Bielmo on guitars who also helped to record "BEYOND THE BLAZING HORIZON" in improvised home studio. The four songs it included were Episode of the Falling Star, Fireland, Waterfalls of Darkness, There was Neither Ground nor Firmament (Precipice Gaped) and also an intro and an outro. Demonic Records released this twenty-minute demo as MCD in 2000. This recording is now available on a CD-R from the band itself, since Demonic Records are no longer in existence. It comes with new improved cover art and bonus tracks from the "DEMO 98".

In late 2000, Carol (drummer) left the band, and after a few months of looking for a replacement CRIONICS found Darkside who at the time played with a Krakow based band - TROMSNAR. August 2001 saw the departure of Bielmo (guitars). In early 2002, after a brief stage absence CRIONICS played a few local shows. Before the summer's end the band had already written new material and signed a contract for their debut album to Empire Records. The material was recorded in Hertz studio in the time span of 12 to 23 August 2002. "HUMAN ERROR (Ways to Selfdestruction)" came to life. It included the following songs: Satanic Syndrome 666, Waterfalls of Darkness, Lunatic Gate, Hallowed Whores, Crionics, Episode of the Falling Star, Matrix of Piety, Precipice Gaped, Sacrosanct Strength, Indoctrination Procedure. The band also registered the cover of CARPATHIAN FOREST - "Carpathian Forest". On the 25th November 2002 CRIONICS - HUMAN ERROR (Ways to Selfdestruction) came out as a bonus CD with the 6th issue of "Thrash'em All" magazine. Soon, CRIONICS went on their first tour with bands such as BEHEMOTH, DARKANE and FRONTSIDE ("Here and Beyond Polish Tour") and were helped by an ex member-Yanuary (THY DISEASE, ANAL STENCH) who took over the duties of a second guitarist on the stage.

Year 2003 brought shows and festivals where the band promoted their debut album. The most important event was Metalmania 2003 festival in March, with a crowd of 5000, where the band played the second stage. The headliners included SAMAEL, MARDUK, SAXON, OPETH. Other shows were Hell Fest 2003, Metal Inferno Fest 2003 not mentioning many smaller, local gigs.

A very important three-record deal with Candlelight Records (with bands such as EMPEROR, MYRKSKOG and ZYKLON) came to life in the late 2003. The label represents CRIONICS outside of Poland. In their home country Empire Records takes them care of. "HUMAN ERROR (Ways to Selfdestruction)" comes out worldwide on the 25th of March 2004 with the bonus cover of CARPATHIAN FOREST. With the start of 2004 CRIONICS were ready to register their new material entitled "ARMAGEDDON'S EVOLUTION". The recording session was split between Lynx studio (where most of the instruments were recorded) and Hertz studio (drums, mixing and mastering the album) in July. Recorded songs were Arrival of Non-parallel Aeons, Final Inversion, Armageddon's Evolution, Chant of Rebel Angels (intro), FFF (Freezing Fields of InFinity), Xenomorphized Soul Devoured, Disconnected Minds, Celestial Interference, Black Manifest (The Sermon to the Masses) and bonus tracks: Dept.666, Total Blasphemy, and a cover of EMPEROR - The Loss and Curse of Reverence. During the recording session the band parted ways with the co-founder and long time bassist - Marcotic. In October CRIONICS went on a 17-date "Blitzkrieg II" tour, supporting VADER, LOST SOUL and CETI. New bassist - Destroyer (who also plays in MOLOCH and KRIEGSMASCHINE) joined the band before the tour as a session musician. The new album came out in Poland on November 9th 2004 with the 5th issue of Thrash'em All magazine.

CRIONICS joined DECAPITATED, HATE and DIES IRAE on "The Ultimate Domination Tour 2005" in February 2005. It's their first European tour, organized by Massive Management and Crash Concerts including 20 shows in Germany, Austria, Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland and other countries. "ARMAGEDDON'S EVOLUTION" release date for Europe was February 7th, and in the US, it was available from February 8th.

The year 2006 it was mostly time of rehearsals and working on next album. During this time Yanuary returned as regular member of the band. He also became Crionics' manager with their accession to Creative Music agency. The new album "NEUTHRONE" was recorded between November 2006 and January 2007 in two studios. It was Diamond Recording Studio for drums and Zed Studio for other instruments. Mixing and mastering was made by Tomasz "Zed" Zalewski. "Neuthrone" was released in July 2007 again by Candlelight Records (16th of July - Europe, 31st of July - USA). Due to dissolving contract with Empire Records, new album was distributed in Poland by Mystic Production since 23rd of July.

Crionics spent 2007 mostly on concerts promoting "Neuthrone". They played 10 gigs in Poland in May (Rebel Angels Tour vol.1) with HATE, DARZAMAT and SAMMATH NAUR. In August, they took part in prestigious Red Alert Festival in Ukraine, where they performed directly before headliners of the fest - VADER and SUFFOCATION. Soon after that they set off on next tour, "Northern Assasination Tour" with KRISIUN, ROTTING CHRIST and INCANTATION appearing in Scandinavian and Baltic Sea Basin countries. In the second half of October Crionics with DECAPITATED started touring in Russia for their first time ("Extreme Hallucinosis Eastern Tour" RIP-Vitek!).

Soon after due to previous obligations the band played the second part of the polish Rebel Angels Tour with Hate, Vedonist and Deathbringer right after the russian tour. The begining of 2008 consists of next tours promoting NeuThrone - Metal Spirit Ressurection 2008 (april - Russia) Crionics' first headlining tour, and Rebel Angels vol.3 (may - Poland). After finishing the over half year long promotion of the album NeuThrone the band decides to focus on preparing it's successor. In June 2008 the band is going through major line-up changes. WAR-A.N. and DARKSIDE leave the band. Currently the band is working on the new CRIONICS album in the following line-up: QUAZARRE - voc/guit, YANUARY - guit, VAC-V - Synth, BROVAR - bass and PAUL - drums.

Crionics released one EP called N.O.I.R. in 2010 and then they disbanded in 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crionics">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.