Introduction written by Mike IX Williams (EyeHateGod / Arson Anthem / Outlaw Order)  "In being a surviving unit like Cripple Bastards for some 20 odd years, it takes much persistance, perserverance and an undying spirit to wreck yourself, all out with Brutal-Fucking-Grind. Yeah, I said it. I said Brutal, so what. Brutal. That's the supposed overused adjective that most 'heavy' band bios and descriptions overlook nowadays for fear of oversaturation or an unoriginal 'old school' repetitiveness. Thats the one word in the dictionary that C.B. should have fucking copywritten a long time ago. It fits them. It defines them. It IS them. Cripple Bastards are indelibly BRUTAL. In all ways; music, violence, artwork, attitude, politics. All born of this represenatitive and passionately destructive word. The mere fact that C.B. even exist confirms they OWN the goddamn word. C.B. are B-R-U-T-A-L. Understand it NOW. "


Asti. Northern Italy. March 1988. The consolidation of the friendship and the common passion for extreme violence between drummer/vocalist Giulio the Bastard (aged 14) and guitarist Alberto the Crippler (aged 17), both coming from local thrash/punk bands that didn’t fit their tastes and didn’t match their ambitions, spawned the CRIPPLE BASTARDS. 

The initial aim of the two youngsters was to keep alive the legendary Italian hardcore spirit of CCM, Negazione, Raw Power, Wretched etc. and to mix it with the fresh extremism of the fastcore / grindcore pioneers releasing records through revolutionary labels like Children of Revolution, Earache, Peaceville and Manic Ears. This original crossover of styles, coupled with the aural viciousness inspired by early noisecore outfits like Seven Minutes Of Nausea, was topped by Giulio’s unique creative approach at lyrical writing focusing on human annihilation and existential decay.

From the early 2 piece line-up (1988-1991), CRIPPLE BASTARDS gradually added new members (mainly drummers and bass-players, keeping GTB on vocals and ATC on guitar) but had to deal with constant personnel changes until core member Alberto the Crippler definitely abandoned music in 1998, the year the band found the definitive line-up consisting in: 

GIULIO THE BASTARD (vocals), 
SCHINTU THE WRETCHED (bass), 
DER KOMMISSAR (guitar) 
AL MAZZOTTI (drums). 

After 5 successful demotapes and 3 x 7" ep's recorded between 1988 and 1993 and distributed through Giulio's own "E.U. '91 SerbianLeague" D.I.Y. label, the CRIPPLE BASTARDS start to build a solid reputation of merciless noise mongers. They gained cult status worldwide by releasing more than 20 EPs / split EPs, 4 full length albums, 2 anthological collection CDs and the "Falafel Grind" tribute CD with 32 international bands covering their most classic tunes.

The band key releases are the three full length albums “Your lies in check” (Ecocentric Records (D) / E.U.’91 Produzioni (I), 1996), “Misantropo a senso unico” (Deaf American Recordings (U.S.A.) / E.U.’91 Produzioni (I) / Peculio Discos (Brazil), 2000) and "Desperately insensitive" (Necropolis Records (U.S.A.), 2003) and the two anthological collection CDs “Best crimes” (Grand Theft Audio (U.S.A.), 1996) + “Almost Human” (Obscene Productions (CZ), 2000) including all the non-album material released between 1993 and 1999. CRIPPLE BASTARDS third full length album “Desperately insensitive”, recorded at Nadir Studio by Sadist’s guitarist and Italian premier producer Tommy Talamanca, was released by Necropolis Records (U.S.A.) and marketed in Europe via Century Media Records. In the span of 3 years it has been repressed on CD by Peculio Discos (Brazil) and Obscene Productions (both in Europe and Asia) and on vinyl LP by Deep Six Records (U.S.A.) and Massacro Records (Italy): reaching the number of 10.000 pressed copies “Desperately insensitive” became CRIPPLE BASTARDS absolute best-seller and a true underground grindcore classic.

CRIPPLE BASTARDS has been constantly hitting the road since 1992 playing all over the world, the current line-up alone played more than 300 shows including three full length tours (Europe 2000, U.S. East Coast 2002 and U.S. West Cost 2003) and appearances in international underground festivals like "Fuck The Commerce" (D), "Obscene Extreme" (CZ), "Mayland Death Fest" (USA) sharing the stage with acts like Napalm Death, Dismember, Suffocation, Pungent Stench, Brutal Truth, Nasum, Ratos de Porão, Extreme Noise Terror, Varukers and Chaos UK among others. 

After unleashing the highly acclaimed split 7” with Eyehategod on Southern Lord Recordings (U.S.A.) and with Sublime Cadaveric Decomposition on Relapse Records (U.S.A.) the latest CRIPPLE BASTARDS release is the anthological double DVD “Blackmails and assholism” on Obscene Productions (CZ), a 6+ hours monsterwork documenting the band’s entire career.

CRIPPLE BASTARDS have also recently finished recording their 4th full length album "Variante alla morte" (Death Variant) at Studio Fredman (Sweden) with mixing desk extraordinaire Fredrik Nordström (At The Gates, Dimmu Borgir, In Flames, Hammerfall), which will be released via UK based FETO Records on October, 13th 2008.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cripple+Bastards">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.