Started in 1995 by Per Aksel Lundgreen from Apoptygma Berzerk, Chinese Detectives and Angst Pop, and Preben Bjønnes from Defcon 4, Chinese Detectives and Posh, following Per Aksel's decision to leave Apoptygma Berzerk in December 1994. Dark electronics and industrial sounds, mixed with samples and a harsh religious overtone gave Cronos Titan a cult following in the scene in Germany, Belgium and Sweden. Several live shows where done, and the most successful ones where as support for Die Krupps at Rockefeller Music Hall, as support for Frontline Assembly at Sentrum Scene, and as one of the Saturday night special acts on Whalestock. Cronos Titan also performed 5 songs live on TVN on the show BOOTLEG. A video was made for the song "The Creator" from the debut album, "Brides Of Christ", named after a TV show by the same name. The track "Baby In Religious Trance" and "I'm A Man Of God", all received a lot of club play and on alternative radio-shows. The debut album was followed by the highly succesful release of "The Gregoraveian EP", a 4 track CD-EP with rave/industrial tracks, that soon found their ways to the clubs and dancefloors over Europe. Especially the track "Razorbath" got a lot of club play that year. A third release was planned, entitled "The Ten Commandments", a two CD release with one song for each of the commandments, but the project was ditched before it was even started. No songs where ever recorded for this project, but another side project, "Valium," was recorded in its place, but never released. Cronos Titan also made a notable appearance on the compilation CD "Taste This Vol. 6" on high profile industrial label Dischordia from Germany. Nothing has been recorded or released since 1996, but the band never disbanded. Maybe something will be done in the future, both band members talk on a regular basis, and talks about going into the studio again have been frequent.... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cronos+Titan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.