Cronite Born In Croatia also known as The Croatian Nitemare, the title he earned by battling numerous MC's & delivering outstanding performances across Europe since the beginning of the 90's, got introduced to Hip Hop in 1983. He started off succeeding as a b-boy participating in numerous competitions and through that, one thing lead to another and he discovered the art of MC'ing.

Ever since his first performance in 1989, Cronite been touring as a support act with artists such as Grandmaster Flash, Run DMC, Kool & the Gang, The Roots, Snoop Dogg, Lordz of the Underground, Naughty by Nature,Onyx, Bubba Sparxx, Joe Budden, GZA, Obie Trice, etc. to name a few.

Cronite released several underground bangers over the years independently (Bang, Bang Single 1994 Take Off Records, Pain (when the chips are down) Single 1997 SPV Records, Cronite/Who the fuck iz you Single 1999 white label) and made a name for himself not just nationwide but way past the german borders, which finally got him signed to Universal Records, Germany in 2001. In 2002 Cronite prepared the HipHop-world with the single-releases It ain..t in vain and You can..t keep a good man down which featured artists such as Talib Kweli and Afu Ra in the video.

His thoughtful, heartfelt and also provocative rhymes, which he delivers with both a masterful flow and a wise perspective over breath-taking beats made his 15 track debut-release and his appearance on the european version of the 2fast2furious soundtrack an event and had listeners definitely recognize Cronite as one of the best MC's to ever come out of Europe.

In 2005 after several tours & collabarations with numerous European and U.S. artists Cronite released the "Independence Day" mixtape to prepare the world for his 2nd Album. On August 4th 2006 Cronite returned with his sophomore album "Pariah" and took the HipHop world by storm once again. "Pariah" was a hit with the critics, not just in Germany but all across Europe and even the no-budget video to " Sick of it all" feat. Masta Ace premiered on MTV Urban on Dec. 12th 2006. Keep your eyes open and your ears to the concrete: The Cronite Saga continues! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cronite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.