Crossfaith is a Japanese electronicore/alternative metal band from Osaka that was formed in 2006. The band consists of vocalist Kenta Koie, guitarist Kazuki Takemura, bassist Hiroki Ikegawa, drummer Tatsuya Amano and keyboardist/programmer Terufumi Tamano. They released their third full-length album Apocalyze in Japan on 4th September 2013 through Search And Destroy Records.  It was also released in North America by The End a day earlier. The album was produced by Machine (Lamb of God, Every Time I Die, Four Year Strong) and was their breakthrough release that received international acclaim.

The band is considered to play the style of music known as electronicore, due to their blend of influences from metalcore, industrial metal, hardcore, metal and electronica. They have thus been described as "Slipknot tearing the Prodigy limb from limb."

In their early touring history they supported bands like Hatebreed, Machine Head, In This Moment, Bleeding Through, The Used August Burns Red, and Memphis May Fire. In March 2011, Tragic Hero Records signed Crossfaith for an American release of their second album The Dream, The Space.

In 2012 Crossfaith's tour schedule for around the Europe expanded, supporting Of Mice & Men with Bury Tomorrow and later in the year supporting While She Sleeps alongside Bleed from Within and Polar in September. In August the band went to Japan to play the Summer Sonic festival, the largest festival in the country, where they played at 3am to 10,000 people.

In September 2012 the band released their second extended play Zion, used as an introductory sampler designed to break into a bigger market overseas. Zion was named after the human city in The Matrix film series. The extended play revived a popular response from mainstream critics such as Kerrang! and The Sydney Morning Herald. Three promotional videos spawned out of the promotion of the EP: music videos for "Monolith" and "Jägerbomb," and one typography style video for "Photosphere." On 10 November the band performed at the 2012 Warped Tour at the Alexandra Palace in London on the 'Kevin Says Stage'. The stage they played on was only a 500 capacity room so security had to block the entrance to the room as it exceeded capacity during their performance. Their performance at the festival garnered a lot of attention for the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crossfaith">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.