Cross refers to many artists.

1. Cross was a Canadian RAC band 
2. CROSS is an Swedish punk musical duo, active since 2012 and composed of vocalist Robert Pettersson and drummer Erik Viklund, from now long gone Masshysteri and The Vicious. 
3. Cross is a hip-hop producer based out of Russia, also a member of The Mannkeyz.
4. Cross is a black/death/thrash metal band from Seattle.
5. Cross was a USA(New Mexico)Power/Progressive Metal band.
6. Yet another Cross is a Swedish progressive band, fronted by Hansi Cross.
7. And another band from Uruguay.
8. Cross is a Croation demo rap artist
9. *The* Cross was Roger Meddows Taylor’s side project 1987-1993. You may know Roger as the drummer from 1970s supergroup Queen.
----------------------------
1.) Cross was a Canadian RAC band that released the album "Rise and Conquer" in 1992.

6.) The career of this Swedish band spans over 8 albums (including a mini-symphony cd) released between 1988 and 2004. Their music has evolved from smooth, floydian like to dark, almost Crimsonesque proportions over the years. Their style could generally be described as heavy, complex neo-prog with a strong emphasis on melody. The band was founded by ex-VON LYX guitarist Hansi Cross whose highly emotional guitar work (sometimes reminiscent of Steve Hackett's) gives the band a sound approaching that of IT BITES. As for Cross' vocals, they are slightly reminiscent of Dave GILMOUR's.

Their first three albums - which are grouped on the compilation disk "Dream Reality" -offer a mixture of long epics interspersed with a few pop songs; they are mostly reminiscent of PINK FLOYD and TWELFTH NIGHT, and perhaps to some extent GENESIS circa "Wind and Wuthering" but with a heavy approach. The following four albums (starting with "Paradox") are heavier, darker, and somewhat akin to RUSH, ECHOLYN or ANEKDOTEN. They feature long melodic guitar solos with spacious keyboards but also bear enough time signatures to remind you of KING CRIMSOM. Their latest release, "Playgrounds", is a bit more tame and spacey.

Not essential but the first three albums may interest you if you're into GALLEON or GRAND STAND. The heavier sound of their later albums will appeal more to fans of ANEKDOTEN, LANDBERK and MORTE MACABRE.

: : : Lise (HIBOU), CANADA : : :
_____
9. The Cross were an English rock band formed in 1987 by Queen drummer Roger Taylor. They released three studio albums before splitting up in 1993. In contrast to Queen and other outside projects, Taylor fronted the band and played rhythm guitar instead of drums (Wikipedia) (peterg@Sydney.au 10/06/2021) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cross">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.