Formed by the fierce guitarist Chris Dela Rosa in early 2005, he quickly recruited the powerhouse drumming of Rob Polley and the extreme low-end of bassist Brian Sparrowgrove. The three spent months writing and rehearsing fast, heavy, and catchy material while searching endlessly for the intense sound of vocalist Derric Brissette, who then solidified the musical direction of the band. By the end of the summer of 2005, the Death Metal quartet headed to producer Scott Creekmore (Lupara) at Mercenary Digital to record the self-entitled four song debut. Featuring excellent production with stand out tracks such as Jagged Lines and Tread, it also included an awesome cover of the At the Gates classic Blinded by Fear.

Following the release of the demo, Crown of Consequence went on to open for national acts such as Meshuggah, Opeth, Fear Factory, Children of Bodom, The Haunted, DevilDriver, Trivium, God Forbid, Dark Tranquillity, Darkane, Strapping Young Lad, Mnemic, Amon Amarth, It Dies Today, and Jungle Rot. Eventually, months of performing encouraged the band to recruit a second guitarist. Entered shredder Chris Seaton, who once joined, immediately gave Crown of Consequence a heightened technical ability.

After sudden downtime in June of 2006, the band returned at the end of the year with new talent and a new influential outlook. Entered the intense percussion of Tom Beaman and bass of Eric Garza. The band's increase in technicality as well as advancement in a more Gothemburg-style sound would then persuade them to return to Creekmore to record their first self-produced CD entitled Testament of Torture. Once again evolving, Crown of Consequence's swift chugs, screeching guttural vocals, and old school Thrash Metal beats reign supreme at reminding everyone of how Death Metal sounds. (Taken from the Myspace) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crown+of+Consequence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.