It's no coincidence that Crowning Glory's star is in the ascendancy at a time when social unrest is high, financial bleakness is omnipresent and industrial walk-outs and record unemployment are rife. The last time the world welcomed a band with such a balls-out, straight ahead approach to Heavy Metal, it was at the birth of NWOBHM some 30-odd years ago when social circumstances mirrored those of today. With a sound steeped in the values of their musical heritage coupled with the attitude of five young men who won't take no for an answer, Crowning Glory present the same outlet for escapism their influences did (and in some cases, still do) all those years ago. Their quest for glory has already taken them to most corners of the UK and Ireland several times over, and (impressively for an as-yet unsigned band) has seen them tread the boards of the main stage of the Bloodstock Open Air Festival in 2008.

Former vocalist, Robert Alexander (2005-2009), possesses a stunning true heavy metal voice, the likes of which has been absent from these shores since the glory days of Priest and Maiden. Tom Draper and Steve Parkyn on guitars combine to create a distinctive wall of noise flirting effortlessly with dual guitar harmonies whilst ensuring that the all-important 'riff' is never neglected - throw in a liberal sprinkling of jaw-dropping solos, played as if their lives depend on it, and there you have the crux of Crowning Glory's twin-guitar attack. Nick Smith (Bass) and Grant Eskriett (Drums) provide a rhythm section with lashings of raw power and thunder to put the listener in the mind of vintage Motorhead or Sabbath.

Their self-financed debut EP "Path To Glory" (2006) garnered a catalogue of rave reviews, both at home and abroad, from webzines to the major rock and metal music press. Their 7" single "Dead Man's Paradise" on Rise Above Records furthered their growth and now, having recorded their first album "Winter In Our Blood" with legendary producer Chris Tsangarides (Black Sabbath, Judas Priest, Thin Lizzy), their time has come to shine. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crowning+Glory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.