CrownLess (2006 – Present) is a metal band that blends in its compositions elements from diferent genres such as symphonic, death, progressive, operatic or power, reflecting the influences of its five members:: Vanessa “Nane” (vocals), Jorge Escudero  (guitars), Sergio Mena (bass and vocals), Pablo Sánchez (keyboards) y Pablo Bazán (drums).

In 2008 they released an homonymous demo containing 5 songs that was their cover letter and made them being one of the best known bands in the national and international underground. From then until now, they have been winners or finalists in many national contests (Granito Rock, Moralrock , Rivas Vaciamadrid, Lagarto Rock, Canedo Rock…) and they have opened for or shared stage with well known artists such as Saratoga, Ebony Ark, Azrael, Silver Fist, Sonic Syndicate, Deathstars, U.D.O., Dark Moor… Obtaining excellent critics for their work in the studio as well as their live performance. The demo has been marketed in UK, Canada and Japan as well as in Spain, and thanks to the internet, in many other countries like France, Germany, Russia, Italy or USA.

In 2009 they began working in what would become their first LP, combining the compositive and studio work with different live events. The main goal was to gather in one CD the constant evolution in which the band is involved, their Dark Evolution. Release of the CD was made on December 20011.

The first single, Lost Inside (November 2011), has been written by Jorge Escudero, Sergio Mena y Vanessa “Nane” and it is about the existential crisis and the fragility of the human being when he faces something as complex and unknown as it is life and death. It is already available in the official channels of the band in youtube. As well as this first single, it is also available a teaser with some fragments from the CD in this same channels. Later in December 2011, the band released a second single, Ataraxia, composed by Sergio Mena in which it is told the experiences of a mentally ill being, torn between sanity and fantasy reality and sickness. On June, 11th, the band reselased a third single, Ravens in the storm, first only on facebook and twitter, and 24 hours later available for the rest of their fans on the band’s official youtube channel.

Featuring in Dark Evolution: Raúl Conejo (Cripta), Matts Leven (Therion), Raven Bush (Syd Arthur). Speech in track 10 of Severn Cullis-Suzuki (UN Earth Summit, Brazil 1992) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crownless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.