CROWNED BY FIRE:
 
John Fitterer - Lead vocals

Justin Manning - Guitars

Chris Breedlove - Bass

William Liermann - Drums, percussion


Boris Karloff once said; “Nature is just as content to destroy as it is to create” and Crowned By Fire are “Prone To Destroy”everything in sight, all in the name of creation!

Crowned By Fire ignited in early 2006 in Northern Los Angeles by founding members vocalist, John Fitterer (owner and operator of Southern California’s Just Passing Thru Body Piercing) and guitarist, Justin Manning, former guitar tech and personal assistant to the burliest guitar god ever to strap on a 6 string battle axe, Zakk Wylde. Musically, the band is tight and punchy like Slayer, brutally loose like Black Flag, with enough early Sabbath doom riffs to wipe out your enemy planet. Lyrically, think Motorhead’s Orgasmatron and Black Sabbath’s Symptom of the Universe while throwin’ back a cosmic cocktail with Aleister Crowley during a Charles Bukowski bar fight.. In early 2011 bass player, Chris Breedlove and drummer, William Liermann came aboard to fill out the lineup.

In 2007, Crowned By Fire released their self produced Ep ‘As The World Burns.’ The Ep not only defined their sound, it gained the band international acclaim and set up their full length debut, Prone To Destroy. The band spent 5 weeks in the Tuscan Hills of Florence, Italy recording the debut album at the prestigious Larione 10 Studios. Opening with the blinding, "I Spit On Your Curse", it's immediately evident that Crowned By Fire deliver a no-holds-barred, rip-your-head-off brand of metal not meant for the weak of heart. "Witch In The Window", is the album's groove oriented lead off single and is a tribute to classic horror films, the unknown and taboo. The Black Sabbath oriented, "Get Under The Dirt" predicts post apocalyptic doom - the futuristic age of existence and the post extinction of man. The riff heavy, "Shake The Bag" reflects years spent surviving in Hollywood from a bruised and blurred musicians eye and the album's title track, "Prone To Destroy" recalls nature’s continuous creation through destruction in all it’s glory, according to vocalist, John Fitterer.

2010 saw the band’s music being featured in the horror movie The Devil Within. Fitterer recalls how that came about: “Producers Tom Milo and Matt Dean contacted me to inquire about using my piercing shop, Just Passing Thru, as a location for a tattoo shop in the movie. They also, rented out my next door unit which I was using as storage and CBF rehearsal lockout. While the movie crew took over my building for a day, I talked to Matt Dean about Crowned By Fire and told him we’d be perfect for a horror movie

 The band signed with upstart label Digital Media Records in June 2011 with Prone To Destroy being released shortly afterward. Album artwork was done by master dark-arts sorcerer Sam Shearon. "Being fans of Sam's work already we came across him on Facebook when he was promoting his new cover layout contributions for A Pale Horse Named Death,' relates Manning. "We contacted him and he almost immediately responded with an interest to collaborate with us. Since then we've become good friends. How much better does it get than that?"

 CROWNED BY FIRE has been invoking the metal gods by way of intense live performances and by brutal studio recordings. Their upcoming release is due out in 2012 which will be produced by infamous Texan producer Sterling Winfield (Pantera, King Diamond, Hatebreed, Rebel Meets Rebel etc…) and vows to be their most diverse and heaviest recording to date… Some live highlights thus far have been headlining several Body Art Expo’s both in So-Cal and San Francisco, co-headlining 2010’s Seattle Doom Festival alongside Tad’s Brothers of the Sonic Cloth, destroying the stage at 2011's Doom In June Festival in Las Vegas and sharing Hollywood stages with doom legends Saint Vitus and Trouble…

 "Crowned By Fire are essential Heavy Metal that crosses over everything that is great in metal from Traditional HM sounds to Doom to Sludge to classic Hard Rock. I love this band and seeing them live was a magical experience." -Ed, DOOMMANTIA


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crowned+by+Fire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.