There are multiple artists with this name: 

1) Crucifix was a hardcore punk band from Berkeley, USA, active from 1980 to 1984. The band was fronted by Cambodian-born singer Sothira Pheng, who later went on to form Proudflesh. Dehumanization, their only full-length album, was released in 1983 on Corpus Christi Records and has since been cited as an influence by several bands.

2) Crucifix was a death metal band from Dallas, Texas, USA, active from 1989 to 2014.. The band recorded two demos: "Crucifix" (1991), "Barriers" (1992); and an unreleased full-length album: "Visions Of Nihilism." A compilation was released in 2013 on Dark Blasphemies. Last line-up: Kelly Smith (bass); Robin Kennon (drums); Jeff Ross (guitar); Mark Bagwell (guitar); Robert Cortinas (vocals).

03. Crucifix is a Danish death metal band formed in Skjern in 1993.
       Current line-up:
Morten "Måns" Adsersen - Guitar (ex-Lunar Caustic, Bazooka, ex-PPGS, Apparatus)
Rune Gangelhof - Guitar (also in Bloodrush, Megalomania 999)
Lars Groth - Drums (ex-Church Bizarre, ex-Victimizer (Dnk), ex-Lunar Caustic, Demon Realm)
Simon Skyrme - Vocals and bass (ex-Nothing Less, ex-Sicment).
       After four demos and a live recording, in august 2008 they released their first official full-length, "Threnody of the Crucifix".

04. Hip Hop artist Crucifix (aka BabyBlue). He first burst onto the underground music scene in 2005 with the release of his independent, controversial double disc debut, "My Life's Prayer". Blending a smooth mix of aggressive, fast-fire hip hop. Strong, heartfelt vocals. A passionate, pain filled delivery and emotional, no holds barred lyrical content. Crucifix will release My Death's Prayer in 2010.
http://www.crucifixmusic.com/

05. Rapper from Memphis, Tennessee. He is known for his 1995 album called 'Da Clouds In Me'. He was also featured on We Creep, a bonus track off the re-release of the landmark Memphis album Ashes II Ashes, Dust II Dust, by Tommy Wright III <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crucifix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.