There are many bands/artists named "Crucified":

One is a hardcore band from Northern California. They fuse old NYHC (Killing Time, Breakdown, Agnostic Front etc.) with bands like Integrity, All Out War and Merauder. The subject matter of their band mainly focuses on how there are many things out there that we do not see, yet they control our daily lives; anti-Masonic lyrics. Crucified released a split CD with No Truce on Escapist Records in the Spring of 2008. They released a split 7” with Steel Nation on Double or Nothing Records in 2009. Most recently they released their first full-length on Double or Nothing entitled "Coldest Winter, Darkest Reaches of the Mind."

There is yet another man by this name. He is a Christian hip-hop recording artist based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. This is a music ministry that has been in operation since 2007. He has released four completely free albums since that time, “Letter To The Saints”, “Balance”, Christ Life” and ”The Crucified Album”, as well as another special project called Consecrated. While his “Free Music Ministry” is and always will be his fore front, he still does live performances as well. Crucified’s ministry has led him to become a hub for newly released artists that will emerge from the fledgling label, 8-Track Records, as well as the “Christian Rap Syndicate”, a brotherhood of believers and artists, consisting of Crucified, Icris, The Legend of XERO and Emayus. His aim to inspire and entertain (free or otherwise) and give strength to the soldiers of God around the world. This music is intended for a Christian’s enjoyment, for challenging their walk, and especially for evangelism. Crucified also encourages his fans to burn any of his projects as many times as they like for witnessing purposes. 

As well, The Crucified was an American crossover thrash metal band from Fresno, California that formed in 1984. It's final lineup was vocalist Mark Salomon, guitarist Greg Minier, bassist Jeff Bellew and drummer Jim Chaffin. The Crucified released two studio albums and three demos. The band toured California for the majority of it's career and appeared at the Cornerstone Festival outside of Chicago several times. The band broke up in 1993 due to personal differences.

Crucified is also a rapper from New Braunfels, Texas. Known for hitting speeds over 20 syllables per second, Crucified has been dubbed one of the fastest rappers in the world. His songs consist of topics such as aliens, weed, the occult, spirituality, and other paranormal experiences. November 2012, Crucified independently released his first album titled, "The Birth of Tragedy", featuring artists such as Bizzy Bone (of Bone Thugs-n-Harmony), Lord Infamous (of Three 6 Mafia), Twisted Insane (World Wide Choppers) and more. Other collaborators include Shy One, Lil Jack from Manson Family, Rob Da Rippah, Lil Loco, Rasheed of Dopehouse Records, Till I Die Disciples, Smoke Mafia Click and many more! With the help of his loyal fans and promoter Yung Dro, Crucified's YouTube page has been able to exceed half of a million views in a short period of time. Friday September 13th, 2013 Crucified broke the Guinness world record for the fastest rap MC with a blistering speed of 949 syllables in 49 seconds. That's 19.3 syllables per second for 49 seconds straight! Unfortunately, after waiting 6 months for the certificate, we were informed that the witnesses had to be professionals in the industry. By the time Crucified had the qualified witnesses (Random Warp Studios in San Antonio, Texas) Guinness, "unfortunately already made the final decision to close the category due to lack of real competition". Now with the help of his new team, Oneiric Music & Media Group, as well as his long time allies and his loyal fans, Crucified is ready to take his music to the next level! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crucified">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.