Crucifer formed in 1990 in the garages of Stafford County Va. Crucifer started as a 3 piece death metal outfit and has remained that way ever since. (Stevie Snyder known for his percise and solid bass playing, Brian Ronquest for his killer guitar riffs, well thought out solos and Jeff Riddle for his fast feet on the drums and brutal vocals. They quickly wrote and recorded their first 3 song demo "Beyond The Realms". It received excellent write ups with the underground press. Crucifer played some of their first shows opening up for some big name acts and were very well received. In 1991 they began writing their first full length cd. As the buzz got around about Crucifer they were approached by the underground label "Wild Rags Records". They signed a 3 cd deal and in 1992 released "Festival Of Death".
This is Crucifers most brutal release to date and most fans favorite. The reviews were incredible and Crucifer was quickly becoming a underground hit. 1993 was to be Crucifers biggest year and at the same time the begining of change. Crucifer returned to the Studio for their next full length and biggest selling cd to date "Pictures Of Heaven" The cd received amazing press. Crucifer was in the height of their career at this point playing in front of hundreds and in some case thousands of people. The "Pictures Of Heaven" tour took Crucifer to the Northern states to play with the likes of Testament,Flotsam and Jetsam as well as others at the Milwalkee Metal Fest. "Pictures Of Heaven" was being sold by the thousands all over the globe and showing no signs of slowing down. It was at this point that Crucifer was being looked at by some larger record companies. (Though nothing ever came of it.)
After 1993 Crucifer took a much needed break and this proved to be a mistake. The members of Crucifer pursued some personal choices at this time while trying to write their last Wild Rags Records release. The writing process was done with the 3 members across the country and only produced 3 songs. Though much more commercial,some say they are some of the best Crucifer songs written. In 1994 Crucifer released "Seperation" A 6 song cd with a live version of the classic "Pray For The Dead." Sales were not bad but a far cry from "Pictures Of Heaven"
There was little to no touring for "Seperation". The lack of touring and promotion for "Seperation" hurt the band and things got quiet for Crucifer. Shortly there after "Wild Rags Records" shut down it's business.
With no label and lack of support Crucifer made several attempts to write and record a new full length release. After several failed attempts Crucifer took yet another break.
Three years later Crucifer managed to write and record ten new songs though plauged with personal issues only six made it to the final cd. Not having enough songs for a full cd, Crucifer decided to put some of the best older songs on the cd as well. Crucifer released "The World Dies" in 1997 on it's own with no label support. It continues to this day to be one of the hardest releases to get your hands on. The new songs saw Crucifer trying a new vocal style on a few songs which proved to be a mistake. The lack of focus and commitment to the band shined through. The cd received very mixed reviews and alienated a few of the hardcore fan base. The last six songs recorded by Crucifer, though not their best work, did have a few high points. Namely the first song on the cd, "The Soul Within". Crucifer has signed a deal with Open Grave Records to re-issue "Pictures Of Heaven" and "Seperation" on one disc for a summer 2007 release!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crucifer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.