1) Crud is an American rock band from Detroit, Michigan. Their sound is often described in the same breath as My Life With The Thrill Kill Kult, White Zombie and Ministry. They use electronics and samplers in their music, but often do not label themselves as “industrial” rock.

Common imagery associated with the band are girls in bikinis, gas masks, blood, guns, muscle cars, hot rods and other assorted pulp favourites. Much of which is brought to life in their stage show. Co-vocalist, Vin E, has fashioned himself a special gas-mask microphone he sings a number of songs with during a live performance.

Crud is fronted by Vinnie Dombroski (of Sponge fame) and burlesque beauty Danielle Arsenault (of Detroit’s Stun Gun). The current line-up is rounded out by band mates David Black (guitar), Dana Forrester (bass), and Eric Hoegemeyer (drums).

Official Bio is here:

Super-charged fetish rock that taunts and seduces you into submission. Crud creates sights and sounds that linger. Think Fight Club. Think A Clockwork Orange. Think you've seen anything like it? Think again.
Biography
Super-charged fetish rock that taunts and seduces you into submission. Crud creates sights and sounds that linger. Think Fight Club. Think A Clockwork Orange. Think you've seen anything like it? Think again. It’s “Grindhouse” meets“Easy Rider” – audio crack for deviants.

Crud’s debut CD DEVIL AT THE WHEEL featured fiendishly addictive tracks that continue to be the soundtrack of choice for TV’s hottest shows. The disc’s title track was recently featured in FX’s hit show “SONS OF ANARCHY” and was also used in the TV film trailer for the 2009 blockbuster film “SHERLOCK HOLMES,” starring Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law.

Additional Crud tracks have been spotlighted on episodes of CSI (CBS), Burn Notice (USA), VH1's “History of Metal,” and “Celebrity Fit Club,” Spike TV’s “Scream Awards,” E’s “20 Acts of Love Gone Wrong,” MTV's “Cribs,” video game “Test Drive 2,” horror flick “Laid to Rest,” plus many, many more. 

The single "Reality" (Bang, Bang, Bang!) in particular has enjoyed massive TV exposure -and was even A&E's theme song for their "CSI Wednesdays” promotion.

Now with the release of Crud's highly anticipated new sophomore CD "CRUD ON MONSTER ISLAND" the band is poised to further infect the masses. Already, Crud’s song "The Man Goes Down” – from “Crud on Monster Island” provided a dark aural backdrop to a frenzied criminal chase scene on ABC's "Detroit 1-8-7" TV show. 

Live, Crud delivers an intoxicating and provocative rock show like none other. Fronted by Vinnie Dombroski (who the Austin Chronicle calls one of rocks most mesmerizing front-men) and burlesque beauty Danielle Arsenault, Crud grinds out a visual and aural assault that leaves you begging for more. Band mates David Black (guitar), Dana Forrester (bass), and Leander Decordova (drums) set the stage ablaze with delicious gritty decadence.

Hailing from Detroit’s underbelly, Crud toured the UK, including a headlining slot at the Whitby Goth Festival. The band also rocked Rue Morgue Magazine's "Festival of Fear" with George A. Romero (Night of the Living Dead) in Toronto, in addition to headlining some of the coolest festivals across the land including Theatre Bizarre, The Peoples Arts Festival, Arts, Beats and Eats Festival, Noir Leather and Showtime Clothing Anniversary Bashes, “Pink’s All Out” party at Milan Dragway, Carnival of Chaos and more!

Crud has been profiled in “Bizarre,” “Spin,” “Metal Hammer UK,” “Girls and Corpses” and other cutting edge media outlets.

“Crud on Monster Island” and “Devil at the Wheel” are now both available on ITUNES.com, CDbaby.com and Crud313.com

2) Crud is also a Grindcore band from Patra, Greece, which features members of Cut Your Throat,
Drowned In Conservatives, Vermingod & Revolting Breed. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crud">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.