There are several bands that go under the name of CRUEL.

1) Cruel from Guatemala: Symphonic Black Metal since 1996. Shares members with Abyssum
Contact info: pestofdestruction.weebly.com

2) Cruel from Perú: A Doom/Death Metal band which released two albums: "Putrifixion" (2003) and "Vulnerable" (2004).

3) Cruel from Czech Republic: The first public concert in July 1992 has been considered as the official start of the power metal band Cruel Barbarian. Two demo releases followed (see discography). In 1994 the band took in half of the tour of the Slovak band Elán (Ústí nad Labem, Karviná, Frýdek-Místek, etc.). In January 1995 the band recorded slightly conceptional recording „The Theatre of Pain“, which it offered to the rock magazines and reviews were mostly positive. A certain turning point came with the next recording "...reap the Storm!", which was recorded in 1997 with seven quests, the most famous of them was the musical singer Lída Finková (e. g. Dracula, The Pied Piper). Reviews in all magazines were above-average, the best was in Spark magazine "The demo of March". The band had the song "The Arms of the Mother Earth" on sampler "Fine Rock Music 3" after which there was a promo tour on Czech radiostations (e. g. Rokko, Evropa 2, Radio 1, Radiožurnál, etc.). After that, the band released the first CD on its own (double CD in this case), on which there was not only "Storm", but also "Theatre" plus 2 bonuses, all remastered and digital cleaned. Meanwhile, the band had of course concerts. The year 1999 was in sign of tribute to the band Helloween, which was released by the Slovak branch of FC. The song "How Many Tears" from the first album was chosen, the studio release was in April, the album during summer. In the beginning of 2000 the band again released the limited number of CDs on its own. This CD contains the first two demo recordings, which were remixed. In 2001 the band cut a conceptual record "The Wine" which was celebrated in a Prague club Rock Café, the same place as the common Cruel Barbarian, Krleš and Salamandra tour culminated. Subsequently the band was hit by a large personnel change and abbreviated its name just to CRUEL. From May 2002 the band starts to play shows again with a new staff. The new band name also appears on an international tribute to Blind Guardian. The actual release "Ekvilibrium" from 2010 was very successful and brings new more progressive sound and complicated but still very melodic compositions. The band is already working on a new material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cruel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.