There are a few bands with this name.

(1) Cruentus is a contemporary metal band with music that can be described as a complex fusion of industrial, math metal and progressive. 

The band started to operate in the mid-1999 in Szczecin, Poland. Since then it has never stopped evolving; each year brings major development in the context of musical style. During the years, the band has been enthusiastically verified by the audience as a live performer, giving over 50 concerts across Poland and Germany. 

In summer 2010 the band released its second LP, "Terminal Code". Lyrically, "Terminal Code" is a concept concerning contemporary urban-reality: stress and blind run for the needless and non-understandable perfection, algorithmisation of every aspect of our existence, feeling of overwhelming and omnipresent vacancy. Musically, "Terminal Code" is a mixture of cold-logic-harmonies, crushing electronic textures with machine-like riffing and poly-rhythmical beats.

Band Members: Marcin "Hyeev" Galicki - Vocals; Tomasz "Archangel" Gabryel – guitar, production; Robert "Binar" Gregorczuk – synthesizer, keyboards; Jakub "KRN" Lasota – bass guitar, production, synthesizer; Michał "Alvaro" Waliszewski – guitar; Bartłomiej "Bart" Mieżyński - drums.


(2) Cruentus is also an underground black metal band from Kathmandu, Nepal. They have two albums out and are currently in hiatus. Asantustha Aatma is their best song from their legendary album Asantustha aatma. Pure Himalayan Black Metal from the country of mountains and hills.  


(3) Cruentus started back in 1998 in Athens, Greece by Comar (guitar), Damnien Desmodus (keyboards), Mihalis (bass guitar) and Stathis (drums & percussion) when two early tracks were recorded. The result was a form of black metal, enriched with an atmosphere originating from the keyboards. During 1999, Mihalis decided to leave the band, and Rohirrim (guitar & bass guitar) took his place. In the summer of 2000, Cruentus decided to record their demo. They spent exactly one month in the studio, and during that time, they decided to alter their music style. They decided to have no vocals, and to create a haunting Hammer Horror-like atmosphere. The result was "(mute)", a demo which has been well received by the Greek underground community.

Free tracks can be downloaded at their offical website, http://rohirrim.org/cruentus/.


(4) There was a death metal band from Colchester, UK called Cruentus. Often seen supporting Anathema in their death doom day.


(5) A progressive death metal band form Italy. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cruentus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.