Crush is the name of at least 12 different musical acts.

1)  Crush (크러쉬), born Shin Hyo-Seob on May 3, 1992, is a South-Korean R&B and hip-hop singer, rapper and songwriter. He is a member of the hip-hop crews Fanxy Child, Club Eskimo, and VV:D.

2)  Crush were formed in Newcastle-upon-Tyne in 1996 and featured Donna Air and Jayni Hoy (both then-teenage actresses in BBC TV's 'Byker Grove'). They released two singles in the UK, jellyhead and luv'd up, but disappointing sales led to their debut album teenage kicks (which included a cover of we got the beat) being shelved. Jayni Hoy then quit the duo and a replacement, Luciana Caporaso, was drafted in. This line up released a remixed version of the debut album, now called crush, in the USA on Robins Records, in 1997. Much more dance/Europop orientated than the indie-pop of previous singles, this album retains the original vocals from Jayni on 8 of the 12 tracks, including several compositions by  saint etienne vocalist Sarah Cracknell (rumor has it that the band were managed by her mum!). After the band split, Air moved into TV presenting, whilst Caporaso went on to front Shooter and electro-rock act Portobella.

3) The solo project of current Beach Fossils' drummer, Tom Gardner.

4) Crush is a straight edge hardcore band from Pomona CA formed in early 2012 they tour and play shows whenever they can. They have a self-titled album released in Oct 2012.

5) Legendary Greek heavy metal band with one album in 1993: Kingdom of the Kings.

6) Previously known as pleasurehead, Crush was a band on Atlantic Records from 1991 to 1993 featuring singer-songwriter Michael Bramon, guitarist-songwriter John Valentine Carruthers (formerly of Siouxsie And The Banshees - where he had replaced Robert Smith who had left to form the cure), and drummer-songwriter Paul Ferguson (formerly of killing joke-which he co-founded).
 
7) Hailing from Newfoundland and most recently based in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Crush comprise Paul Lamb and Cory Tetford. Other members have included Santiago Serna, Scott MacFarlane and Brian Talbot. They have released two albums, 2002's Here and 2003's Face in the Crowd.

8) CRUSH A Venezuelan pure black metal band.

9) Georgian heavy metal band.

10) Dutch teenage heavy metal band.

11) South African 90s punk band.

12) Oakland guitar rock band https://crush.bandcamp.com/album/crush.

13) Swedish 90s shoegaze band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crush">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.