Cry Of Silence is a Black Metal project from Olympia, Greece.

Genre - Heathen Black Metal (Hellenic Black Metal)
Lyrical themes include - Nature, The Gods, Paganism, Nostalgia, Anti-Humanity, Pain, Loss, and Depression. 

(*Note - Though there may be lyrical content, and imagery that suggests otherwise, Cry of Silence should not be considered 'Depressive Black Metal'. Granath has also slightly reshaped the face of the band recently by recruiting a female backing vocalist/lyricist and has personally labeled Cry Of Silence as 'Heathen Black Metal' in his newest artwork, & on the band's site.) http://www.myspace.com/granathscryofsilence

Granath - All instruments, writing, and vocals (Sarvari)
Tatiana - All other vocals, co-lyric writer

Biography -
During the summertime of the year 2006, down in southlands, surrounded by mystical forests and eternal rivers, Cry of Silence took the breath of life for the first time. Brought to the sunlight and darkest nights by Granath. Cry of Silence is a one man vision, a gate through which Granath enters his internal world, the philosophy for all that he believes in and follows, the adoration of mother Nature and the endless pain of his wondering soul closely entwined with Nature. Time of loneliness crossed paths with the northern winds, and a new soul walked into Granath's world. 

Inspired by Pagan times and divine existence, nurtured by mother Nature and wilderness around, sorrows of soul and honors of heart, wisdom of mind and divinity of love, Tatiana joined Granath on the path leading to wandering through Pagan times. Cry of Silence can make you cry in silence, yet it can also silence your cry. Mindless creatures with eyes which cannot see, with ears which cannot hear should not cross this path...and if you cannot be touched by the pure meaning of senses so forgotten, if you cannot understand the true meaning behind these words, then do not waste your time reading this, as only the chosen ones, the true ones and the divine ones can truly grasp the meaning of what Cry of Silence really is.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Cry of Silence is also a Canadian band from Vancouver, British Columbia that combines the style of New Rock/Alternative with the skills of guitar harmonies and aggressive, yet beautiful vocals. 

The band first started recording in the late Spring of 2004. After recording a great number of tracks for over a year, they finally got their first gig and it was at the 2005 Fraserview Block Party held in their hometown of Vancouver, British Columbia.

Fortunately, 2006 has been a great year for Cry of Silence as they have performed many more shows to spread their music around their province and expand their fan base. Such achievements include performing at the Canadian Cruefest @ the Roxy, being one of the top winners from competing in Battle of the Bands hosted by Supernova.com, and opening for popular Canadian rock band Social Code.

The lineup currently consists of Ed Lam on lead vocals and guitar, Jay Leung on guitar, Gary Carter (formerly from "Freezing Cheese Disease") on bass and vocals and Young Kim on the drums (also from "Freezing Cheese Disease")

Cry of Silence continue to write new material, and record with both producers Ryan Stewart (Winecellar Music), Tim Neuhaus, and Clayton Creed (Ear Art Music) to rock hard with their beloved, awesome fans. 

The Canadian Cry of Silence is:
Ed Lam - Vocals/Rhythm Guitar
Jay Leung - Lead Guitar
Gary Carter - Bass/Backing Vocals
Young Kim - Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cry+of+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.