There are two bands known as Cryogenics:

1. A punk band from Kansas City, Mo featuring members of Nuke Cult and Dirty Work

Born in Athens in February 1980, Cryogenics. spent his early years listening Hip Hop, Breakbeat and Hardcore,artists like LFO, Quadrophonia,Holy Noise, Future Sound Of London, The Orb, The Prodigy, Shut Up And Dance, SL2,The House Crew, Acen, 4 Hero, Public Enemy, NWA, Wu Tang Clan and many more.

At the age of 15 (with the nickname "Squawk" )he tried to spin his 12", the rest are history!With his best friend,at that time,he start a project called "Euphoria".Music styles House, Hip Hop and of course Jungle and Drum n bass!!!!They made a series of events and a year later they split up,with out knowing what future can bring!

At the age of 16 Cryogenics tried to make some tunes!Fastracker II was his first software! "Source Code" become very poppular in the Greek crowd!Source code jumped in the greek drum n bass top 20 (Life Fm) (No9) between great names at that time like Source Direct, Zinc, Hype, Dylan and many more!
It was the year 1999 and Cryogenics had to join the army and he left from everything tll the year 2002.

2004 came and with the year,an old friend came back from Sweden!Flipper!
They start spining with Junior SP and from that time they (Cryogenix and Flipper) still organizing events with artists like Big Bud, Seba, Phace, Evol Intent, Vicious Circle, Electrosoul System and Doc Scott (with Junior SP)!Mechanix is there name...
At the same year Cryogenics was one of the best upcommin dj in Greece ("Free" Magazine).

Cryogenics starts making tunes again (some of them you ll get them on 12" ;p) and he has a new (production) project with Junior SP !Klute, Amit, SKC, D Bridge are their main influences!Having a very good comments from big names such as LTJ Bukem, Goldie, Big Bud and Klute, they continue what they start...To spread drum n bass in all Greece!

Cryogenics has performed with Goldie,LTJ Bukem,Tayla,Phil Source (Source Direct)Bizzy B, Equinox, Chris Inpespective,Big Bud, Seba, Phace, Evol Intent, Vicious Circle, Doc Scott, and also with Methodman & Redman, Mix Hell (Igor Cavalera (x-Sepultura) Electro project) and Grandmaster Flash!!!!!!!!)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cryogenics">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.