Cryopsis is a guitarist known as The Entity active since 1997 and having participated in the groups Symbyosis, Kristendom, and Aching Beauty.  After a demo and two albums, "Veils Of Psychotic Chaos S.E." goes out current 2010, that is a remastered version of "Veils Of Psychotic Chaos" (2003) and includes Perception Of Light album and 1 new track.  

It weaves himself only of the mystery around Cryopsis.  Solitary project of a single personality: The Entity.  An entity that takes care of all the instruments, creation of the music, of his recording...  Maybe is this better thus of any check is even until the smallest thing to do...  And on account of the fact that as much of mysteries done a so thick mist around Cryopsis, that increases our curiosity.  Cryopsis is therefore the project of a single person, an ambitious and totally mastered project in the technique and the music, in the visual one and all that the surrounds.  The Entity goes even further since this album is free in it's entirety, with the booklet, the interior, the back cover and the forehead cover.  It does not there have therefore to deprive itself.  The important thing to specify it is that this album is not a novelty but in fact a reissue of the first album gone out in 2003, is a remastering of which the twelve titles see themselves accompanied of four titles in bonus track that are not or more or less than the titles of the second album or MCD "Perception Of Light" gone out some years later.

In his big generality, Cryopsis proposes a death metal totally complex in the Fact that his music is technical and seems reserved to a certain elite for the true comprehension of the work by itself.  The innumerable changes of rhythms balance us some references of the style to knowledge Atheist and Sadist, but the manner to play the keyboards, to offer dark and spatial moods remind me maybe a "The Key" of Nocturnus, on the beginnings of the album notably.  Then you doubt yourself although to arrive to describe on paper an as strange album as this new grinding of "Veils Of Psychotic Chaos" holds exploit for whoever not knows all the terms of the guitarists, the small technical and other things of style.  But what imports is despite all one takes pleasure to listen this death MORE INSTRUMENTAL metal than something else for the song of the Entity remains comparatively rare on most of the pieces.  Even if it is beautiful is well there, the beautiful party is done to the music, to the guitars and to their demonstration, to the keyboards and to their sensory activity.  But this song is used to good advice.  One sees that the Entity does not want to waste saliva for nothing, the song intervenes in the moments more brutal where the rhythmic ones are more aggressive and more less more important.  This so rare song is composed never wild grunts, it always is with not poorly of effects that quadruple this one with a manner to speak almost whispered for the final one to have more extent death metal.  This extent gives the aggressive aspect of the vocal and this is just as well thus for a pure song death metal would have certainly night to the body.  The keyboards are as for them, as important as the guitars or the rhythmic section low/battery that is other only a wood to rhythm well evidently.  The usage of these affable keyboards the universe spatio-temporal of which seems to be inspired the entirety of the style of Cryopsis.  A very futuristic and black universe could lose itself in the confine of the infinitesimal space.  Then one feels, if I am not mistaken that at the level of these keyboards, the Entity must be influenced by the manner to compose, and of interpreter of Sadist.

A style that wants itself discreet on not poorly of passages with long and mind-blowing tablecloths but that, sometimes will look for the melody more forward while accompanying to level égal,les guitars and not more in discretion.  One recognizes it well this influence of Sadist on the title "Liquid Shadows Of Immaterial Reality", extremely close of a "From bellatrix à beltegeuse" album "Tribe". this is so much more fort than this manner to retranscribe his influence with a personal style, gives to Cryopsis again more of assurance and of personality.  But the keyboards are not the only strong point of Cryopsis, what's more of his artistic creativity, the Entity handles the ropes as a virtuoso.  This is as well as the titles seem to do to the arrival only a single and even long progressive song, as "Cybion" of Kalisia we showed it there is not a long time.  In a different register, affable Cryopsis of the brutal passages ("The Pool Of Putrescence") extremely easily, where the guitars accelerate while proposing more reasonable themes and "classical" in this register death metal, while keeping anyway this technical side, always put forward by a low complex and powerful.  Following the example of Sadist once more, the changes of rythmes,les syncopes strange, very easily are devoured.  One enthuses easily of the moods, of this atmosphere of science fiction and of anthology that Cryopsis done to glide on most of its pieces.  But one notices oneself that even if the Entity likes to strut with its instruments in a register death technical, she very much likes equally to appear more primitive, closer of the primary rage of the death metal.  With pieces to the simpler paces as "A Living Cage", the Entity leaves to pour his aggressiveness more easily.  But every time the return to subtlety and to this recurrent theme of the space remains despite all inevitable one.  

This is a complicated album but nevertheless limpide at once.  Difficulty lies in the Fact that it is not necessary to put itself limit in the listens of this album.  Say itself that this is a little more of an hour to listen of a single one treats to wander in the méandres of a cosmos colorful by an as sumptuous booklet as the music presents on this album.  I regret some despite all that it is a numerical album, and I launch a call as much to the Entity that to a disc house, because even if the accessibility to this album is not easy thing, it deserves to be edited in a physical way.  In all the cases, if it exists I wish sharply some to be possessor in order some to appreciate the work in his entirety, musical and visual, the two keeping pace.  

Helped of some people for certain additional vocal or again for certain keyboards, the Entity well did to put back to the taste of the day its titles.  It is a matter of an album where the technique, spirituality and brutality do common cause to take us comparatively far.  Between the solos and the intoxications to the Cynic of "The Blood Fountain", the interstellar interludes and the magnificent melodies of "Life Machined", Cryopsis forged itself an identity.  This identity deserves the recognition of all because his author is someone of talentueux.  Then the invitation for the discovery of the new world starts with "Veils Of Psychotic Chaos", as mentioned higher, do not deprive you, you freely can download it, and Cryopsis deserves to be known and recognized, inspired by the biggest ones as Sadist, Nocturnus or again Cynic will understand you what one feels that once you will have listened it...  Because until the end, with "Behind The Mirror", very Mike Oldfield,très music progressive, one remains in this magic bubble.  Besides you will notice if the curiosity brings you to Cryopsis that the titles of "Perception Of Light" are all the opposite of "Veils Of Psychotic Chaos", titles more mélodiques, more progressive and totally less dark, in a register more heavy same...  When Ayreon meets the MORE EXTREME metal with a sprinkling of the years 70's..  Sincerely listen, you will have delighted...

[source: http://www.french-metal.com/chroniques/cryopsis.html#.TlN1vQK-bIM.myspace] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cryopsis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.