There are many bands named ‘Cryptic’:

1) Swedish black metal band from Mölndal, consisted of Thypheuz (drums, percussions, vocals) and Eliphas (guitars, bass, vocals). The band had released only one demo called "A Northern Wind of Holocaust" in 1993 and split up. Later Thypheuz and Eliphas who changed his name to Ulverheim formed black metal band called Thornium.

2) Canadian Mathcore/Experimental Band. Bandcamp: crypticmurmurs.bandcamp.com
Band Members
Laurel Borealis: Vox
Claire Hoekstra: Guitar, Vox
Lando Reason: Accordion, Vox
Kevin Quigley: Bass
Jon Pord: Drums

3) Polish death/thrash metal band established in Mszana Dolna around the year 2000. First band's deed is Demo CD recorded in 2004. After couple of years, dozens of gigs and line-up changes another spawn was released in 2010 - Infinite Torment LP - published worldwide by Metal Scrap Records.

Current line-up:

Piotr Nawie¶niak - guitar
Andrzej Hejmej - vocals, bass
Marcin Strug - guitar
Pawe³ Dudzik - drums

4) German Brutal Death Metal band started in 1993. To date they have released "Demo '95", "Der Stille Garten" (demo 1995), "Circular Saw Fetish" (EP 1997), "Another Night of Grind..." (split with Cryptic / Festering Saliva / Vivisection 1997), "Deep Ass Punishment" (Split with Texas Brutal Death Metal band Prophecy 2001). Not to be confused with the German Thrash Metal band Cryptic from Dachsbach.

Members include:
Vocals : Stefan Müller
Guitars : Andreas Honsberg
Bass : Florian Schober
Drums : Gerry Hoffmann

5) Minneapolis-based rock trio has a knack for delivering provocative lyrics, inventive drumming, and slithering melodies, while at the same time, preserving an emotional narrative in each one of their songs. 

Guitarist/Lead singer Mitch Hoglin and drummer Andy Gagnon started writing music in 2000. They released two EPs to friends and family, but felt that they wanted to further develop their sound.
CRYPTIC started playing venues in the Twin Cities in the spring of 2004, and quickly began drawing attention to themselves. Over the next two years, the band started writing material for a full length album. CRYPTIC added bassist Luke Aton, (formerly of Wait Till Wednesday), a few months after their debut album entitled: "If a Kiss Could Cure My Disease" was released.

From the heart-breaking tones of the ballad, "Every Day of the Week", to the deceptive song-structure of "Those Days", the album has something for everyone who loves music. The acoustic waltz, "Wearing Me Empty" is a bittersweet love song that tugs on the heartstrings, while the angst-ridden lyrics of "Right Here Right Now" evoke the feelings of a bad breakup, and give the album it's title, "If a Kiss Could Cure My Disease".
With their new album available anywhere in the world, CRYPTIC is quickly garnering fans all across, and outside of Minnesota. 

The variety of moods in CRYPTIC's music, make it hard to lump them with any one genre. Their sound pleases fans who range in interests from hard rock to alternative rock, and everything in between. With 2007 just around the corner and their number of fans increasing, CRYPTIC is looking forward to their new album and a new lineup of shows in and outside the Twin Cities.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cryptic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.