Last Lineup:
Andrew Manuele - Vocals/Guitar (2004-2013)
Edgar Remotti - Guitar (2008-2013)
Max Young - Bass (2010-2013)
Cristian Leiva - Drums (2005-2013), Guitar (2004)

Cryptic Prophecy was a metal band that was active intermittently between 2004 and 2013. Throughout the band's chaotic career there have been frequent lineup changes, with only Andrew and Cris remaining the consistent core of the band, and a few name changes before settling on Cryptic Prophecy in 2009. Despite these setbacks, Cryptic Prophecy managed to write music prolifically, self-release a few demos, and play live sporadically in the lower Hudson area of NY, most notably at Webster Hall. 

The band started as primarily a cover band in 2004 with members just learning how to play their instruments, but began to develop their own style with original songs fusing various subgenres of metal by late 2006. After primarily playing High School Open Mic Nights and self-releasing short demos to their classmates, the band became active in the local Westchester metal scene by 2008, when they passed out their first full length demo, Descent Into Darkness, at The Haunt in Yonkers. By this time they had found a permanent second guitar player in Edgar and become more advanced in their songwriting. 

In 2009 the band changed its name to Cryptic Prophecy and recruited bass player Alex Torke before self-releasing the Plight of the Warrior EP, which had a more folk and power metal influenced sound than the black/death/thrash found on DiD. The demo received a favorable review from a fellow member of the scene in More Sugar Magazine and the band continued to actively play live until Torke left the band with no hard feelings. A replacement was soon found in Max Young. 

In 2011, the final lineup of Cryptic Prophecy continued to play live and recorded a higher quality self titled EP with local producer Alfred Rylands of the grindcore band 51B which featured more black metal influence than previous material. A show followed at Webster Hall in NYC, but physical distance caused by Edgar's move to Boston to continue his education forced practices and shows to become less and less frequent. After a period of inactivity the band decided to call it quits in 2013. No reformation is planned in the near future, but Andrew and Cris plan on hitting the studio to finish up the considerable about of material left unrecorded.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cryptic+Prophecy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.