Cryptomnesia  are signed to the Interdimensional label and are from Vancouver Canada.
They have been around since the late 80's and have seen many line up changes. The only original members are Regan MacLeod and Michael Charlton who along with Nathan Kelly and Shane Handford comprise the new Cryptomnesia. 

They appear on a lot of magazine and radio compilations and have released on cassette, vinyl and compact disc most of which is rare or out of print. 

 Their music is a mixture of electronic ebm, metal and prog rock although the recent compilation appearances have been more focused on a psychedelic electronic sound.


Following this description there is a review for their last album to be followed up by one in the works titled 
'Masters of Conspiracy.



Cryptomnesia
Hypnerotomachia (Interdimensional Industries)
By: Sean Strauss
In Music We Trust

Hypnerotomachia is the first solo flight for the Canadian trio Cryptomnesia. Apparently seven years in the making, Hypnerotomachia journeys through several labyrinths in its seventy-two minute running time leaving the listener exhausted, confused, fractured, divided, but with little regret.
Opening with a mad, blindfolded dash through the mind of a lunatic, Cryptomnesia members Regan, Terence, and Mikael then begin a well paced exploration through nightmare analysis, social commentary, desolation, depravation, and all those themes that make manic depressant keyboard programming tolerable for over an hour. Occasionally allowing moments of lovely raw bass lines, phrases of logical poetry, and an actual guitar chord to seep through the cracks keep Hypnerotomachia breathing and protect it from becoming a hybrid of ambient and metal that would destroy the essence of both genres.

Hypnerotomachia provides enough massages of energy and accessible melody to maintain honest interest and enough stretches of lost highway to let the imagination ponder that award winning screenplay. Caffeine is not recommended while listening unless tapping into the natural high paranoia is the thing; so put the double shot mocha down. Don't fret about getting trapped in the hypnotic Jedi mind trick where the music is so repetitious that waiting for the beat to change seems a valuable use of time. There are enough variations in the rhythm within each track to make valid progress in thought transition or club rehearsal dance steps.

The band name Cryptomnesia translates as "hidden memory;" more specifically it is used as an explanation of unintentional plagiarism. This is a very dangerous name for an industrial goth metal band, almost asking for an automated attack on their application of the advanced defense mechanism. Remember Basic Instinct - using the book as an alibi? Somehow the subtle whispers of film scores long gone don't seem so accidental anymore. Nevertheless, Hypnerotomachia is an album obviously full of hard work, strategy, and musical appreciation.

There is a  web site for Cryptomnesia at http://www.interdimensional.com/cryptomnesia. 
It is worth the time. Learn something new, or perhaps something hidden in the memory. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cryptomnesia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.