"Cryptic Shade is not trying to be your typical heavy metal band; they have an eclectic sound that brings together a wide variety of influences." (Jyoti Roy of Feminist Review April 2, 2009)

An original Progressive Metal band, Cryptic Shade entered the Portland, Oregon music scene in 2008. The band's name has significant meaning that represents their music: "Cryptic," meaning mysterious and enigmatic; "Shade" representing the variation of mood, ranging from light to dark. Complex rhythms and dynamic melodies characterize Cryptic Shade's music, which may be interpreted emotionally and stylistically different for each listener. Although written without self-imposed boundaries, Cryptic Shade's music always has a progressive twist. 

Baroque melodies blend with driving heavy rhythms within varied genres, ranging from acoustic, classical, blues, and jazz to power and thrash metal. The drums are an intricate and ever-changing time machine for the moving rhythm of the strings. The two guitars produce a thick undertone that harmonize and create symphonic layering that is lush and textured. The bass adds deep tones that build on the rhythms and melodies, with its own identity. "The combination… makes for a very, very heavy sound with the complex riffs of rhythm and lead" (Feminist Review). The "fifth instrument," the vocal, is the final layer that does not always mimic the stringed melody and timing. Vocal tones may be clean or have an edge, which accent the instrumentation. As Roy notes, the vocals are "… almost sweet, amazingly melodic, [standing] out over the music—still discordant, but more bluesy than metal." 

Cryptic Shade gives an energized, musically exciting live stage performance. Each musician brings a raw emotion that bleeds with the musical elements and injects excitement into a show for the audience to see, hear and feel. "Great freakin' show!" writes Greg Eisenach, lead vocals/guitarist of established local band, Ashen Relic. "You are one of the most kick ass ensembles I’ve seen in the local arena. Your music takes me back to a better day in music history." 

Being characterized as "not your typical metal band" is a worthy phrase on all fronts for Cryptic Shade. The group is dedicated to the music they believe in, whether it is their musical prowess, skillful song writing, or the execution in a live performance. In the pursuit of building their grassroots fan following, this characterization also applies. Promotion, in addition to offering free demos to fans, has been proving effective in reaching a wider fan base.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cryptic+Shade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.