Cryptic Tales was founded in 1989 by Piotr Kopko (guitar, vocals) and Jaroslaw Maciuszek (drums). Then Dariusz Gibalewicz (guitar) and Witold Zawdzki (bass) joined the band. After two years of rehearsing the band decided to record their first demo tape "The Sign Of The Southern Cross" (1991). This tape was appreciated in Polish underground metal. In 1993 the first official record "Anathema" was released by Carnage Rec. At that time it was claimed by many reviewers to be one of the best and the most original death metal productions in Poland. On "Anathema" one could find fresh ideas such as various musical instruments being used. At that time the band did a lot of gigs, sharing stage with the biggest bands in Polish metal. In 1994 Cryptic Tales recorded their next mini album "Valley Of The Dolls" (Gamma/Croon Rec. 94), a controversial release, which, despite of some originalities like mixing brutal music with flute, was not acclaimed. After the realse of "Valley Of The Dolls" there was a line-up change. Witold Zawadzki left the band and Mateusz Bernardyn took his place. In 1996 another full length was created and entiteled "The Tales" (Croon Rec. 96). A moment later "The Tales" is being remastered and rereleased by German Awaken Prod. After that Maciej Motyka exchanged Dariusz Gibalewicz on the guitar. After the release of The Tales, the band played many gigs mostly in Poland and Germany. "The Tales" made Cryptic Tales one of the biggest bands in doom-death metal genre. At high tide of their career the band unexpectedly stopped their job. Cryptic Tales was one of the most original and acclaimed bands in 90's Polish metal music. It was applauded by metal maniacs, appreciated by record labels and media. "Anathema" and "The Tales" are the pieces of music which can be given a cult status. After seven years of silence the band has begun to rehearse. The line-up has been: Piotr Kopko (guitar, vocals), Jaroslaw Maciuszek (drums), Mateusz Bernardyn (bass) and a newcomer Jacek Fall (guitar). The new material has been composed and the new style has been created. The effect of the band's hard work is entitled "VII Dogmata Of Mercy" (Empire Rec. 2008). In the meantime Bartlomiej Filipinski (keys) joined the band.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cryptic+Tales">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.