…They come on like BLACK FLAG post- three hits of crack and a bottle of whiskey, a hardcore punk assault on the senses. After a Tales From the Crypt intro and a raving bible basher demanding the show to stop, the singer is let off his chain and, by the cock of Satan, does the man deliver. Throat tearing vocals, eyes rolled back in his head, spastic stage presence, this is as close as you’ll get to a young Henry Rollins. The rest of the band pulls their weight, tight and energetic, despite allegedly playing ‘their worst show ever’ the previous night down in San Jose. Tonight, they are sober, destroying and by the time they kick-out ‘Rock n Roll Bones’ – a skeleton-dislodging anthem for the fucked-up, ugly generation – you are a convert.”
-Max Bareshenkov

Crypt Keeper is a 4 piece thrash rock band based out of the West Coast and are known for their energetic live performances and radical riffs. The band formed in late August of 2010 when bassist Brian Shea moved back to California from Florida. He and drummer David Francis had been talking of starting a group upon his arrival and recruited long time friend/guitarist Demecus Hill. The lineup was just about complete. They asked Joey Camello to join the band and do vocals. He agreed to give it a shot seeing as he had never been the frontman of any of his previous bands. The four clicked immediately and starting punching out songs like nothing. Practicing whenever possible in their rehearsal spot in Oakland,CA they wrote their first album in two months and went on to record with legendary Bart Thurber at House of Faith Recordings in November and have self released their debut 7” on Friday May 13th,2011. Since August the band has been playing whatever show they can get on in the area and are planning on doing a West Coast tour very soon. So, Creeps and Creepettes…Keep your eyes and ears peeled for this band. If they are in your area it is highly recommended that you drop what you are doing and cancel all previous engagements to go check out this heavy hitting band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crypt+Keeper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.