There are multiple artists named Crypt: 

1) Crypt  (born January 4, 1995), formerly known as RedCrypt and Cordglass21, is an American YouTuber, internet personality, rapper, singer and songwriter from Kentucky. 

2) Crypt is a garage / bass / house project from London, UK, formed by Daniel Shell. First producing grime and dubstep fueled by the various vinyls and CDs found in his dad’s music collection. Now influenced by the sounds of Zomby, Burial, Falty DL, Sepalcure and many he produces tracks with a garage house fusion combined with deep basslines and dark haunting vocals.

3) Crypt was a power metal band from Canada featuring Rob Malnati (ex-Exciter). Released the album "Stick to Your Guts" in 1987.

4) Crypt is a thrash / death metal / hardcore band from Royston, UK. Crypt at first glance can be seen as one of those good old fashioned metal bands, but then you look deeper and see we have energetic breakdowns and a hell of a lot of things to get in the pit to. We have the classic influences such as Sepultura and Motorhead, but then we have newer influences as well such as Bleeding Through and Caliban. We don't like the same old boring metal song with an overused blast beat or breakdown, we try to write our music so it stands out from most peoples and we think that most of the time it works. We've played with a lot of bands over the past year and a half and every single one has influenced us further, we can only go up from here. Members include Sam Burgess (vocals), Paul Futter (guitars), Adam Smith (guitars), James Dye (bass) and Greg Wilson (drums).

5) Crypt was a death doom metal band from Grimbergen, Belgium, active in the 1990s.

6) Crypt was a death metal band from Rochedale, Australia. They released "Excruciating Agony" (demo cassette, 1994),"Crypt" (EP, 1995) and "El Nino" full-length, 1998). Members were Grant Martin (vocals), Nathan Pilch (guitars), David Allen (bass), Alan Bennett (drums on demo and EP), Cliff Young (drums on "El Nino") and Gren McKinnon (second guitar on EP only).

7) Crypt is a Japanese melodic black / death metal band.

8) Crypt is an old school death metal band from Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegowina. Influenced by Cannibal Corpse, Suffocation, Morbid Angel and such. They released their first songs on "Controlling the Madness" EP 2009. http://www.myspace.com/cryptold

9) Crypt is an electronic music act on four40records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crypt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.