Crysalys is more than just a musical project, it’s a concept, a word of lucent yet cruel fairytales, it’s like reality trapped into illusion, a vibrating dream. The first larva saw the light of day in summer 2004, when a young couple of musicians, Chiara (vocals) and Alessandro (drums) decided to create a band in which a fascinating and melodic female voice could join a powerful and heavy sound, potentially inspired by Swedish melodic death metal, by replacing the usual growling-screaming vocals with the luminous and dramatic tones of a classical-trained soprano.
The first line-up released a home-made demo, “Season of Suffering”, in 2005. Autumn 2007, due to the first line-up changing, saw Crysalys recording their first official EP “White Louts On Acheron’ Shores”. This release, defined by a detailed and professional sound, drew the attention of webzines, magazines, fans and specialized metal press and pushed Crysalys into the spotlight of the Italian and European female fronted metal scene.
In January 2009, while waiting to record its first full length, the band decided to give their fans a new MCD entitled “…And Let the Innocence Dream”. However, during the summer of the same year the two guitarists and the bass player chose to leave Crysalys to form a new metalcore band. A month later the band was once again renewed, also thanks to the introduction of a new instrument: the keyboard. Modern synths and emotional piano tunes will be a fundamental and innovative element and will help the band to experiment innovative sounds and evolve its original concept. With new members and influences,the new sound of Crysalys is directing to an Avant-Garde Metal style, with more operatic elements opposed on a modern metal sound. The release of the Italian band’s forthcoming full length is scheduled for spring 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crysalys">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.