Since the 1980s, Helsinki heavy metal scene has spawned numerous Finnish heavy metal acts that have since reached a cult status not merely in Finland but internationally as well. Each year dozens of new bands following the footsteps of such legends as Stratovarius and Children of Bodom emerge, while most likely as many split up and fade unknown into the depths of history. However, one of the rising bands that might just reach the cult status of its predecessors is Crystal Blaze, a high energy Helsinki based metal band.

The finest elements of metal - soaring guitar leads and punchy rhythm guitars, thunderous drums, uplifting emotional vocals, ethereal keyboards and roaring in-your-face bass - are the core of Crystal Blaze. Though power metal is the genre Crystal Blaze would be easiest to fit in, the band does not let any kind of genre definitions and concepts limit their creativity. Saying that Crystal Blaze is a stereotypic power metal band would do no justice to the multilayered elements of the band´s music as one can hear elements of, for example, trash metal, straightforward hard rock as well as progressive metal throughout the spectrum of the band´s songs.

The story of Crystal Blaze goes way back to year 1995 when the first lineup of the band to be evolved into Crystal Blaze was formed. The current lineup started to take shape in 2001 when keyboardist Lari Sorvo and guitarist Lauri Koskenniemi joined the band, then known as Guardian Force. The group released one demo under this name (Land of Magic, 2002) and the style of the band´s music at that time was rather straightforward power metal. However, by the release of the next demo, Dreams (2004), the name of the group was changed into Crystal Blaze and the style had undergone changes as well. Mixing elements of all kinds of subgenres of metal into power metal, Dreams was a huge success among fans and critics as well. Just after Dreams was released, Eerik Purdon joined the band to take on the duties of the bass player, thereafter being the last link in the six-piece chain known as Crystal Blaze.

During summer 2006, Crystal Blaze entered the studio to record their second demo, The Punishment. Recorded 4. - 10. of July 2006 at Noisecamp Studios in Turku, Finland, this three-song demo is both a huge step forward compared to Dreams as well as a brilliant showcase of the band´s mature ability in creating amazing songs. The demo also shows that though the band´s members are able to stretch into virtuoso-like personal performances, the band has that special chemistry going on that separates unique bands from others. The opening track of the demo, In the Fire, is a mid-tempo rocker that represents Crystal Blaze at its best, tying together different parts and influences of different genres, yet creating a uniform piece of music. An aggressively experimental side of the band is demonstrated by the second track, Last Sacrifice, which includes numerous innovating passages - a real trademark of Crystal Blaze. The closing track, The Punishment, really demonstrates the extremes of the band, going from straightforward power metal to a more pop- and rock-like sound, and then again going to the other extreme with the heavier-than-Hell part towards the end of the song.

The next step for the band after releasing The Punishment is searching for a record deal and doing as many gigs as possible in order to show the people just how energetic live act Crystal Blaze is.

As of fall 2008 CB are on hold for an unspecified time.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crystal+Blaze">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.