There are multiple acts called Crystal Lake.
1)  Japanese metal band from Tokyo
2) A hardstyle duo.
3) Polish progressive rock/metal band
4) Brazilian thrash metal band
5) Dutch thrash metal band, later renamed to Crustacean
6) Hip-hop group from Huddersfield, UK. Released first EP under this name in 1999, then later albums in 2006 and 2011.

1) Crystal Lake is a Japanese djent band from Tokyo, formed in 2002. The band comprises guitarist Yudai Miyamoto and vocalist Ryo Kinoshita with support of bassist Mitsuru and drummer Gaku Taura, who is a former member of Nocturnal Bloodlust. After Shinya Hori's departure, Miyamoto is the only member of the original line-up who remains in the band. 

Their first demo, Freewill, was released in February in time for the show in Korea which they were invited to by GMC Records. The second demo, One Word Changes Everything, came out in July, and a self-released four-track EP, also entitled Freewill was released in September with 1000 copies made and sold. In September 2003, Crystal Lake played five shows in Japan with Australian band Day of Contempt.

From March to June 2004, they toured with Loyal to the Grave and Extinguish the Fire. Following the end of the tour, the bands released a split album titled Blood of Judas on CD and DVD. On 29 April 2005, the band released their second split album with Risen and Unboy titled 3 Way Split. In February 2006, they performed at Independence D. On 5 July 2006, the band released their first studio album titled Dimension through Imperium Recordings. After the release of the album, they went on "Dimension Tour" in Japan. In February 2007, they performed at Metal Presentation with Australian band I Killed the Prom Queen and Hatebreed on "Hatebreed Japan Tour" in March. In November 2007, they played on Rockstar's "Taste of Chaos" in Japan.

On May 2008, they released their third split album on CD with the Japanese punk band Cleave. In November 2008, they performed again at Rockstar's "Taste of Chaos" in Japan. In January 2009, they toured in Japan with Parkway Drive and Shai Hulud. On 27 May 2010, Crystal Lake released free download demo Endeavor on their MySpace page. Crystal Lake also announced through MySpace, Twitter, Facebook and YouTube a new music video "Twisted Fate" from their upcoming second studio album titled Into the Great Beyond. On 11 June 2011, the founding vocalist Kentaro Nishimura left the band.

On 24 March 2012, the original drummer Yusuke Ishihara left the band. On 3 July, they announced their new vocalist Ryo Kinoshita on their Facebook page with a statement: "Today, we are pleased to announce the newest addition to the Crystal Lake Family, please give a warm welcome the new vocalist Ryo."[11] The next day, the band announced that Gaku Taura will be their support on drums. They also announced that they were going to release a new single in summer.[12] On 5 September, they released two new singles "The Fire Inside" and "Overcome" which was mixed and mastered by Brian Hood at 456 Recordings.

From 26 January to 1 February 2013, they toured with As Blood Runs Black and Confession. In May 2013, they toured with The Ghost Inside and Continents. After that they shared the stage with Emmure and they toured across Japan on the Sumerian Tour 2013 with Born of Osiris, Upon a Burning Body and Her Name in Blood. Later in 2013, the band went on a supporting tours for Coldrain, Her Name in Blood, Crossfaith, Before My Life Fails, SiM, and Totalfat.

On 9 February 2014, they played at the Scream Out Fest 2014 with The Devil Wears Prada, Periphery, The Word Alive, Fear, and Loathing in Las Vegas, and Her Name in Blood at Shinkiba Studio Coast, Tokyo. On 12 April, they played on the Monster Energy Outburn Tour 2014 with Coldrain, Crossfaith, and Miss May I in Sapporo.

Later in 2014, the band announced that their first EP titled Cubes via YouTube page, is set to release on 6 August 2014. A music video for the new song "Ups & Downs" was released on 28 July. On 4 August, a music video was released for their cover of Limp Bizkit's song "Rollin'". On 6 August, they released the new EP Cubes via Cube Records. Cubes debuted at #5 on the Oricon (Japanese music chart) indie weekly album chart, at #45 on the weekly album chart and at #27 on the daily album chart.

On 8 August, they headlined the "True North Project Tour", with support from Infection, Prompts, Sailing Before the Wind, Scarface, and Shark Ethic. They toured on the Crossfaith's "ACROSS THE FUTURE Tour" with We Came as Romans and While She Sleeps in September. On 25 October, they started their headlining tour "Cubes Tour" 2014. On 15 November, they performed at the Knotfest Japan 2014. On 3 August 2015, it was announced that bassist Yasuyuki Kotaka had decided to leave the band due to his illness.

2)
Alex Moerman & Paul Gorbulski are a hardstyle duo from Israel. Their unique style is Hands Up – a mixture of Eurodance & Hard Dance, but always flavored with House, Trance, 80's, Rock or Electro elements. In studio, Alex contributes the beats and sound design. He Used to play the drums and therefore has a great ability in creating the right groove for Crystal Lake's tracks. Paul is in charge of the melodies and the lyrics. When Paul was a kid he used to play the violin, after training for 1 year he threw the violin against the wall and broke it! Guess that wasn't meant to be. After his unsuccessful violin experience Paul started taking piano lessons.
Crystal Lake was founded in Friday 13th 1999, since then Alex & Paul were busy breaking their own personal records, always aiming higher & higher towards their ultimate goal.
Over the years Crystal Lake had numerous amounts of live shows, dozens of top chart positions, over 2 Million views on YouTube, their own radio show (Crystal Nation) with over 13,000 listeners and are regularly featured on compilations such as Dream Dance (Sony), VIVA Club Rotation (Ministry Of Sound) & Future Trance (Universal).

3) Polish progressive rock/metal band, playing since 2003.
They released debut album Safe in 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crystal+Lake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.