Crystal Viper is a Polish heavy metal band, formed in Katowice (Poland) in 2003 by vocalist Marta Gabriel (professional musician, 1st grade) and her husband - Bart Gabriel (manager and producer known from cooperation with a bunch of classic Heavy Metal bands). After several demo recordings Crystal Viper entered the Kat Recording Studio to record the "Wild Child" song, for "A Tribute To W.A.S.P." CD compilation (released in 2006 by Codiac Records, Denmark). In April of 2005, two members of the legendary New Wave Of British Heavy Metal act Elixir came to Poland, to record the song "Chaos Rising" with Crystal Viper for "A Tribute To Cirith Ungol" CD & LP compilation (Solemnity Music, 2006). After several line up changes, since 2006 Crystal Viper consists of the following members:

Current
Marta Gabriel – vocals (2003–present), guitars (2009–present)
Andy Wave – guitars (2006–present)
Blaze J. Grygiel – bass (2016–present)
Eric Juris – guitars (2018–present)
Cederick Forsberg – Drums

Crystal Viper's style can be described as a combination of Speed and Heavy Metal (Running Wild, Accept, Stormwitch), the New Wave Of British Heavy Metal (Elixir, Angel Witch, Iron Maiden), and Epic Metal (Manilla Road, Zed Yago, Manowar). Crystal Viper is also known from theatrical live shows, and already had the pleasure to share the stage with acts such as Doro, Hammerfall, Stratovarius, Cradle Of Filth, Deathstars, and other bands.

In the summer of 2006 Crystal Viper recorded their next cover song - this time it was "Flaming Metal Systems" for "A Tribute To Manilla Road" compilation - again with a special guest: Piotr Luczyk, guitarist of the ultimate Polish Metal legend Kat, recorded the opening guitar solo. A few days later the band inked a deal with German label Karthago Records (home of such cult bands as: Noisehunter, Gravestone, No Trouble and many others). A few months after recording the song for the Manilla Road tribute album, Crystal Viper returned to the Zed Studio to record a debut full length concept-album titled "The Curse Of Crystal Viper". Intro for the album was recorded by another very special guest: Gerrit P. Mutz, lead singer of the famous German True Heavy Metal band Sacred Steel. The debut CD is out now, and soon High Roller Records (Germany) will release it on limited edition vinyl LP as well.

Between 2006 and 2009 Crystal Viper was a four piece band in the studio and a five piece band on stage, featuring different musicians at the position of the live rhythm guitarist, until Marta took over the duties of a rhythm guitarist as well. Since then, Crystal Viper is a four piece act both in the studio and on stage.

In 2009, Crystal Viper signed a multiple record deal with AFM Records. The third studio album entitled "Legends" (with lyrics based on old Polish legends and stories) came out in 2010, and in 2012 was followed by "Crimen Excepta" - concept effort about witches and holy inquisition. Due to occupational obligations Tomasz Woryna was forced to take lesser part in band's activity, and most of the bass guitar parts on "Crimen Excepta" were recorded by Marta Gabriel. The band didn't stop to tour, so Michal Badocha stepped in as the new bass player.

In 2013, after several live shows in countries such as Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland, Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Sweden and Denmark, Crystal Viper returned to the studio to record the fifth studio album, "Possession". Sadly soon after its premiere, due to health issues relating to the band's front woman and founder, Marta Gabriel, the band was forced to stop its activity. In 2013, for the first time since 2006, after regular touring in 15 countries, and after releasing 5 studio albums, 7 singles and compilations - the future of Crystal Viper was placed into question...

In late 2016, the band finally broke the silence: the witch is back! The comeback album entitled "Queen Of The Witches", was released after a four-year silence, in February 2017. Like all the previous ones, the album has been produced by Bart Gabriel (known for his collaboration with acts such as CirithUngol, Pagan Altar, Hexx or Sacred Steel). The album's cover artwork has been created by the legendary German artist, Andreas Marschall, known for the iconic artworks which he created for acts such as Running Wild, Blind Guardian or Kreator. "Queen Of The Witches" is also the first Crystal Viper album recorded with the new bass player, Blaze J. Grygiel. As it's already a tradition that Crystal Viper pays a tribute to the classic '80s Metal acts of which legacy they proudly continue, it couldn't be different this time, and the band both invited several special guests to take part in the recordings, as well as recorded two cover songs, for the CD and the LP version of the album respectively. The Manowar co-founder and guitar hero Ross The Boss appears in the headbanging hymn entitled "Do Or Die", while Mantas of Venom slays a shredding guitar solo in the speed Metal monster entitled "Flames And Blood". Except that, in the surprising power ballad entitled "We Will Make It Last Forever", Marta shares vocal duties with Steve Bettney, vocalist of the NWoBHM cult heroes Saracen. The album has been promoted by two video clips, and a European Tour in March and April 2017, during which the band visited Belgium, France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Hungary, Czech Republic and Poland.

In 4 June 2018, rhythm guitarist Eric Juris joined the band.

http://www.crystalviper.com/
http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=33867

Albums
The Curse of Crystal Viper (2007)
Metal Nation (2009)
Legends (2010)
Crimen Excepta (2012)
Possession (2013)
Queen of the Witches (2017)
Tales of Fire and Ice (2019)
The Cult (2021) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crystal+Viper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.