It’s all about the music! That is Crystallite’s motto. We believe in what we do and intend having a good time doing it! Based near Oxford in the UK. we’re a 5 piece band that has been playing together for just over 2 years with the current line-up. Truly a band of brothers, Crystallite is a lifestyle as much a band.

Writing and playing our own material and recording our individualistic sound that has developed and matured into a distinctive style that has steadily emerged through the performances at gigs and festivals. The songs are varied in style, pace and influence. Described by local music press as stadium grunge rock there is no problem with flipping to a soft ballad such as Have you ever in fact it this variety that drives us and we have a desire to cross genres and become accessible to many.

Crystallite are five very different individuals who are bound together by a strong bond and through performance have formed a deep mutual understanding that goes beyond music and impacts life every day. 
Crystallite are –

Greg Bishop – lead vocal and acoustic guitar. 
Greg has bought so much to the band since becoming the last to join. His guitar style and sound underpin the crystallite sound and his strong gravelly voice brings feeling to the lyrics along with his ability to front the band and is contrary to his natural quietness and shyness.

Simon Holder – Guitar. 
What you see is what you get, no airs or graces Simon is perhaps the most straight up and down guy you could meet. One of the founder members, loves a party and takes this on stage he is often seen leaving the stage and playing in amongst the audience.

Danny Holman – Guitar and backing vocal. 
The Cool Italian guy, Danny also a founder member has been playing guitar with Simon for over 10 years and their partnership really shows on stage. Whether it’s his driving riffs on his Strat or those sweet bends on his Gretsch Danny’s innovative sounds are a trademark of the Crystallite sound.

Craig Cowley – Bass, synth and backing vocal. 
Craig is our Mr music, the one with the best ear and the one with the technical knowhow. Also the youngest he came to Crystallite as a very fresh faced young man, look at him now. Always ready to try a new sound he knows what it is he wants from a Crystallite song.

Matt Jaycock – Drums. 
The third founder member and long-time band member of Danny and Simon. The peacock, always knows where the cameras are and not slow to offer a pose. Brash, loud and often outrageous Matt is, well Matt!

https://soundcloud.com/crystallite-band/tracks <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crystallite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.