There are two bands called Crystal Eyes  1. Was formed in Borås, Sweden, in 1992, by Mikael Dahl and Niclas Karlsson to keep the legacy of Heavy Metal set in the eighties by Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, Black Sabbath, Accept etc. 
A strong underground reputation was built during the mid-90’s with four official demo-tapes (released together on one cd in 1998 under the name Gallery of Demos). 
In 1996 Crystal Eyes launched their official website and got to open for Blind Guardian the same year. The German label CLM offered a deal in 1998 and the debut, World Of Black And Silver, was released the year after. The follow up, In Silence They March, was released in 2000, but after some difficulties, Crystal Eyes broke up the contract with CLM and signed with Swedish label "Heavy Fidelity".
The third album, Vengeance Descending, was recorded and mixed in Crystal Eyes' own studio and featured guest vocals from former Chroming Rose vocalist Gerd Salewski and Lost Horizon vocalist Daniel Heiman. This record received even better reviews than the first two and got Crystal Eyes on the "Sweden Rock Festival" in 2003. 
Mikael Dahl, who had been the guitarist, vocalist and songwriter since the beginning, now felt it was time to “do a Kai Hansen” and take a step back from the microphone. The fourth album, Confessions Of The Maker, was released in 2005 and featured former Lost Horizon singer Daniel Heiman on guest vocals. The same year Crystal Eyes were the opening act on "Sweden Rock Festival" and this became the only live appearance with Daniel, who went on to form his own band Heed. 
The search for a new permanent singer began and by the end of the year the perfect voice was found in the Danish vocalist Nico Adamsen. The band decided to take a step up in the production and let the mix for the next record be handled by a professional. The fifth album, Dead City Dreaming, was recorded at "Crystal Sounds" and this time the mix was handled by Fredrik Nordström at "Studio Fredman". For the first time the production was totally right and it was clear that Nico was the perfect singer. 
In 2007 Crystal Eyes felt it was time to move on and that meant finding a new record label for the next album. Tons of demos were sent away and after some offers the choice fell on Metal Heaven. The new record, Chained, was recorded at "Crystal Sounds" between May and August and mixed by Fredrik Nordström at "Studio Fredman" in September 2008.
At the beginning of 2009 Nico Adamsen left the band and Mikael Dahl took over the lead vocal duties once again.
In September 2013 Crystal Eyes have finished the recording of their 7th album, entitled Killer.
At the beginning of 2014 Crystal Eyes signed a deal with Massacre Records and Killer was released on July 25th, 2014.
2. A Canadian Dream-influenced rock meshing 60's garage and psych with 90's shoegaze. 
Musicians:
Erin Jenkins (vocals and guitar)
Jordan Tettensor (guitar)
Scott ‘Monty’ Munroe (bass, synth)
Joleen Toner (synth, theravox, organ)
Kenny Murdoch (drums)
Eve Parker Finley (string arrangements, violin, cello)
Zou zou Robidoux (cello)
Owen Fairbairn (violin)
Basia Bulat (back up vocals on 'I Still Believe in Love')
Andrew Woods (additional instrumentation, percussion)
Hermitess and her Witch Choir (additional harp and vocals on 'No Heaven') 

Active from 2015 till now. Latest release is "The Sweetness Restored" - april 2022 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Crystal+Eyes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.