Cubensis is a Los Angeles-based Grateful Dead cover band.

Drawing from all eras of the Dead, the band performs a three-hour set of Grateful Dead and JGB classics that retains all the spontaneous exploratory jamming for which the bands were renown. However, the music produced is uniquely Cubensis.

Here, you won’t find the band wearing wigs and fake beards to re-create the Dead experience, unlike Beatlemania. “We don’t strive to play Dead tunes note-for-note,” explains Cubensis guitarist Craig Marshall. “We use the music as a skeleton, and then we flesh it out with our own improvisations. The Dead did that every time they played, and we find it to be a perfect model for our shows. The fans agree. They love hearing Cubensis-flavored Dead.”

The group is drawing national attention with their true-to-life performances. LA Weekly recently raved, "Cubensis plays with the same laid-back mastery as the real McCoy." The LA Times declared "As the tribute to one of the ultimate jam bands, their set lists are as free and frollicky as the crowd." Big Brother skateboard magazine says Cubensis is "the nation’s premiere Dead tribute" and the OC Weekly declared them "the hottest Grateful Dead tribute act going." OC Register affirmed Cubensis was "the best place to channel Jerry Garcia" and AOL Citybeat stated, “Cubensis is renown for whipping its faithful crowd into a swirling, psychedelic mass for three hours straight.”

Cubensis has been pleased to find their most enthusiastic supporters are those who never got a chance to see the Grateful Dead in person, and wonder what they missed. Seasoned “Deadheads” come out to relive the great shows gone by, and as a result, the band is in great demand, performing over 150 shows a year throughout the Southwest. Cubensis was given specific permission by Jerry Garcia to perform the Dead's music. Garcia's only request was "do a good job of it." Ever since, CUBENSIS has promised authenticity and delivers pure Grateful Dead-inspired music like it was meant to be heard, keeping the Dead alive and re-creating the magic one show at a time. Don't miss it! 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cubensis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.