Culling the Weak is a band focused on diversity, combining different influences from all sides of music to create one idea to better illustrate our message. The term Culling the Weak means to separate the weak from the herd to make better means for survival. Our meaning behind Culling the Weak is to stand by the weak, be their strength and help rid themselves of their weaknesses. With that, we create a much greater scale of people willing to stand along side one another. A message we all must embrace to build a better future of us.

Our diversity derives from influences the world over. From Europe to the U.S. covering styles such as black metal, death metal, melodic hardcore, thrash metal with hints of power metal and punk rock. Trying to have no limitation on what we can create and only going forward in our abilities to give this to the world. There is so much out there to be inspired by, we find that for us breaking the boundaries of sub genres and just creating what’s in your heart to be our driving force. This is only the beginning for us to show what “metal” is capable of when walls are torn down and nothing is set in stone.

Culling the Weak was formed in September 2006. Sean Franklin, Devin Alu, Jordan Riles and Jay Sheeler had already been together as Culling the Weak for a couple years with no luck on finding a vocalist that could hold up to our standards. In early September we met Raven Coria through a mutual friend and asked him to try out after hearing his vocals in his prior band. Needless to say everything worked out smoothly and we quickly got to work on our new material. As friends and musicians we worked perfectly together to bring our message to the forefront and compromise our music for no one.

Looking toward the future.

After months and months of diligent work, our Full-length self-titled album is done and with it comes time for us make our mark in the music scene. We have new merchandise coming through as well as in store signings and upcoming tours. With the release of this album, Culling the Weak has big things in store so definitely stay tuned and check out a show near you. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Culling+the+Weak">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.