* CULT OF DAATH background info:

Cult of Daath was formed in October of 1999 by C. Immortum (guitars, bass and vox) and W.Obscurum (drums and vox). They joined forces to create pure Black Metal described as "cruel barbaric black metal in the most raw and sick vein" not like most commercialized and trendy bands that blanket the scene today. With influences ranging from old-school bands like Beherit, Sodom, Old Mayhem, Old Bathory, Bestial Warlust, Celtic Frost, and Venom. "Black Metal should be painful to listen to, it should not be pleasant to the ear, but a grim and violent journey through a never ending darkness. The lyrics deal with War, Darkness, Destruction, Necromancy, Death rituals, Hatred and the will of debauchery. This is the essence of Cult of Daath."

They recorded their first demo titled "The Triumphant Holocaust" in July 2000. Three songs of pure hatred and barbarity with vocals on the first two tracks "Wars of Demonism" and "Triumphant Holocaust" by W.Obscurum and the last track "Worship the Goat" by C.Immortum.

Cult of Daath have just released their new full-length album "Slit Throats and Ritual Nights" in 2005 on Blood Fire Death Records. 

It will further propel CoD into the utter darkness below.

* Excerpts of a recent review from Live4Metal's Metal George:

"Cult of Daath have begun to garner a name for themselves within the underground for a few years now, releasing a solid full length with Warhammer Records recently, as well as gigging around and doing interviews with tons of independent fanzines. That said, to most of you who are somewhat up to date on the Black/War Metal underground, Cult of Daath should be a name you recognize.
"...['Under the Cover of the Triumphant Holocaust'] is a re-release of the band's 2001 and 2000 demos, 'Under the Cover of Darkness' and 'The Triumphant Holocaust', respectively.
"I must say that I think this demo material outshines that of the full length by quite a bit. Perhaps it's the raw energy these songs possess, or the fact that the sound quality of said full length [debut] was nigh unbearable, but I have to admit that I was rockin' out to these songs, especially those from 'The Triumphant Holocaust'. it evokes good ol' fuzzy memories of the first time I heard Order From Chaos back in the day."

"Indeed, you can really tell that OFC stands as a big influence to what these guys do; together with Finnish legends Beherit I'd venture to say that these are the closest comparisons to what Cult of Daath sound like. They possess the brutal blasting attack of OFC, while retaining the dark and gutteral vibe of an album like [Beherit's] 'Drawing Down the Moon', especially on a song like 'Wars of Demonism', the opening track to 'The Triumphant Holocaust' demo. Check out the groove around the two minute mark; it's sure to get the heads and fists banging in no time, while the title track itself will flay the skin off what's left."

"Out of the two demos, I'd say that 'The Triumphant Holocaust' is the more blackened of the two. It has more of a raw, Hellhammer sound to it, than the raging War Metal the band moved into with the 'Under the Cover of Darkness' demo. While I may wish the band had stayed on this path, I must salute them for their obvious dedication to their craft. This release is a great way for fans of chaotic metal from the likes of Blasphemy and Von to check out Cult of Daath, as well as for those who are already familiar with the band to turn themselves on to some of their earlier stuff (collectors should know that this CD contains a ['NEW'] bonus track, recorded in 2002, entitled 'Necomancer's Lust', as well). Burn for Satan!!" 

---- Metal George by Live4Metal.com (2004) 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cult+of+Daath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.