Since its inception, Culto De Anubis has concerned itself with making music with an identity of its own, drawing different influences from various genres and mixing them in order to create a unique style blend. Hailing from Buenos Aires, Argentina, Culto De Anubis was formed in August 2013. The original line-up consisted of Horacio (lead guitar & vocals) and Martín (drums). Shortly after that, Martín got in touch with Diego - an old friend of his -, who offered to fill the bass position. With Diego on the bass guitar, the band's sound, initially linked with Stoner Metal, began taking influences from experimental music as well as Doom Metal. Thus, Anubis made their first appearance as a duet - since Diego had not been able to make it - on a radio show called "El Fraude Del Rock", invited by Mi Propia Necrológica, a fellow band. Upon getting some positive reviews for a band that had been around for less than 3 months, the band continued developing their sound, and in November 2013, they performed live for the very first time at Experimental festival, opening for Ulises Labaronnie and Mi Propia Necrológica, who were the closing act. In December 2013, Diego quit the band due to personal reasons. Thus, Culto De Anubis went back to being a duet for some time. Martín took charge of the backing vocals, and they carried on without a bass player until Sebastián - who had formerly played with Martín - filled the bass position. This resulted in another change in the band's sound, incorporating certain influences from 70's Prog-Rock. This way, the style fusion the band was playing would give birth to what they refer to as "Experimental Stoner / Doom Metal". In May 2014, Sebastián quit the band, and in June of that same year, Juan Manuel Bianciotto, bass player for his one-man solo bass project "Dos Cielos", joined Culto De Anubis.

Culto De Anubis is:

Horacio Sosa - Guitars & Vocals
Martín González Devia - Drums & Backing Vocals
Juan Manuel Bianciotto - Bass Guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Culto+De+Anubis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.