The other site is at www.myspace.com/curbjaw or go to http://www.jamendo.com/en/artist/Curb_Jaw/ and you can download everything together.
     Jay and Garrett started jamming in late 1999 after Jay and GothFvck both moved to Lindenhurst, NY. After a few months GothFvck picked up bass and started playing with them. They wrote and recorded a few songs. At this point Jay and Garrett were singing as we didn't have anyone else. They sounded better than nothing but not great. About a year later in 2001 GothFvck finally found a singer through mutual friends after going through one or two others. Those others only lasted about a week. We settled on James, he was great. This was part-due because his older brother is the singer of Arkham13. With James came many lyrics mostly featured on the Cake or Death album and the yet-to-be-recorded Extinction album. Jay's wife, Larissa, helped write most, if not all of Step Down.
     James quickly learned all of our songs and we started inviting all our friends to come attend practice. This was every Saturday and some people chipped in and ordered pizza. We got invited to a party at some kids house, our set was cut a little short because they all listened to rock/screamo music. After this we played at Looney Tunes and nearly all of the local high school metalheads came and many others. This was the first time that Looney Tunes recorded a live band there. That didn't turn out very well. Curb Jaw has stopped making copies of this album, which was a mix of their two albums.  If you go to Looney Tunes you should be able to find everything
     After Looney Tunes CJ played Open Mic Night at the Downtown in Farmingdale. Ultimately this resulted in meeting Mike from Laceration & El Diablo productions and we started playing shows with them. Many bands were met and CJ became more well known. They played all over Long Island including, Molly Blooms II, The Kozy Kabin or the "Koz Bin" since that's all that the sign lit up as, VP South, Saints & Sinners, Fin's Pub, amongst others.
In the meantime they started their own production company and started booking bands at these venues. In The Pit Productions it is called and has grown very large. Especially in the NY tri-state area.
     In July 2006 GothFvck moved away and explored life. The rest of the band found a replacement bassist, Anthony, and decided to throw in a second guitarist as well. Why not? His name is Karl and he played in Stoic Disruption for a while. Together they wrote 3 new songs. Two years later, GothFvck ends up back in NY in 2008 and re-joins as lead bassist and website manager. 
    The In The Pit Productions site is: www.myspace.com/inthepitproductions if you want updates on us or any other hardcore/metal bands. NY or worldwide. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Curb+Jaw">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.