From bucolic North Carolina surfaces a hard rock band that has achieved the unthinkable. Curse Your Name (formerly known as Cynder) has begun to realize its dream, and has garnished name recognition the world over. CYN is a 5-piece unit that knows no boundaries when it comes to climbing to the top. Formed in 1998, CYN has overcome trials and tribulations as they slowly climbed the ranks in the local music scene. Their unique and inventive musical style, while dark and melancholy, also has a positive undertone of hope and power hidden within. The world of CYN is brought to life in full, vivid color to the listener through the twin guitar team of J.J. Moore and Brian Ingold; the relentless brain-bashing drum work of Brandon Alford; fretboard-encompassing bass lines delivered by Adam West; and the powerful, multi-faceted vocals of Ryan Camp. This is not a band that relies solely on one type of sound; its all over the radar, ranging from slow and psychotically peaceful melodies to fast-paced and aggressive chaos. Over the last few years, the current line up of CYN has been tearing up regional crowds, and released four self-produced CDs, including the seminal Hide the Light (2003), and Curse Your Name (2008), and have sparked rabid fans worldwide (self-proclaimed CYNners). The biggest event for CYN was their selection to take part in the nationwide band competition presented by Ozzy and Sharon Osbourne, MTVs Battle for Ozzfest. The Battle attracted both metal and non-metal fans all over the world each week. The band surpassed 600 others to make it to the final episode, and placed second, receiving 43% of the votes from millions of people worldwide. With the help of the show and their management team Divine Records, CYN has developed an enormous fan base, quickly turning their band from local heroes into a household name. The band has been featured in almost every area newspaper and entertainment mag, Rolling Stone and AP Magazine, MTVs XM radio station, and local and college radio stations throughout the Southeast. The band has also had the honor of sharing the stage with rock legends like Slayer, Shadows Fall, Black Label Society, Dimmu Borgir, Judas Priest, and even Black Sabbath! CYN is already in the process of finishing up a brand new full-length CD "Better Off Dead" and planning U.S. and European tours for late 2010 to kick-start their pursuit of world domination! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Curse+Your+Name">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.