The band was formed in 1997 in Romania (Timişoara).

"Cursed Cemetery was the death/black metal oriented project of Erebus (Argus Megere/Negura Bunget), and it was influenced by bands such as Acheron and by old bands such as Venom. The line-up featured Fulmineos on drums, Alucard on vocals and Bogdan on bass. After the departure of Alucard, Fulmineos took over the vocals part. A rehearsal tape was recorded and a few live appearances were made.

After that nobody knows how the band ceased to exist... until Fulmineos recruited two friends, Dis Pater and Zaerneboch and experimented under some terror/flagellating sessions, ideas and emotions emerged in the desperate nights under the funeral moon of summer and fall of 2006 and past thoughts. "Victor of vicis obduco" resulted as the first official attempt of Cursed Cemetery and was released as a demo tape in 4 pieces by Smell of Stench from Australia.

Of course there is a big difference from the first period this project had in the nineties, the new dimension being sort of a ceremonial suicidal black metal influenced by Abruptum, Shining or Silencer. Now the debut CD "Dead Soul Madness" is ready, Fulmineos doing all the instruments and a new member was added, Alex (Hex Lecter) from the technical death/black band Spectral who is doing the vocals.

Everything is ready now, it is a sick story about death, total alienation, infernal torment inside and outside of the human mind thought out ancient and medieval history, symbols from the ancient Egypt come to torment the inquisition times in the baroque transilvanian bloody and perverse counts hungry for lust, blood and morbid parties, that have also all kinds of bizarre curiosities and a sick infernal spirit of adventure. It is sort of a conceptual material both musical and lyrical that tries to find it’s own way in this modern age of the machines having it’s own universe and dreams..." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cursed+Cemetery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.