Customs is a rock band from Leuven, Belgium, formed in 2008. A combo of four retrofuturists, known for melody, atmosphere and mathematical edge. Influences detected by several journalists include: The House of Love, Echo & The Bunnymen, The Sound, Red Lorry Yellow Lorry and Cocteau Twins.

Customs is known as well for making fame in a rather swift fashion:

In April 2009 Customs became the first ever Artist in Residence at Het Depot. Around the same time Customs' first single, entitled "REX", was released. It stayed at the n°1 spot of De Afrekening for 4 weeks and popped up in the Ultratop Chart as well.

July marks the recording of their first album and the mastering at the legendary Abbey Road Studios by the even more legendary Geoff Pesche (Gorillaz, Basement Jaxx, Simon Webbe, Kylie Minogue, Athlete, Coldplay and Dizzee Rascal).

In the summer of 2009 they were welcomed at the Pukkelpop festival and received raving in reviews in the Dutch magazine Oor as well as in the Flemish weekly Focus Knack.

In September 2009, the band was elected 'Vi.be On Air' Band of the Year 2008-2009 by Studio Brussel. One week later "Justine" was released as the first single of the forthcoming debut album. The band played a concert to remember at the Leffingeleuren Festival and proudly presented a music video for "Justine", shot in Berlin and directed by Joris Rabijns.

On 26th October 2009 "Enter the Characters" found its way to every record store. De Morgen celebrated the release with a four star review “Best Belgian Album Of The Year”. ‘Focus Knack’ put the four retrofuturists on their cover “Belgian Revelation Of The Year” and also ‘Humo’ (Belgian weekly) hails them in their pages.

Customs is:
Kristof Marie August Albert Uittebroek - vocals, guitar
Joan Willy August Govaerts - bass
Jelle Florentius Mark Janse - guitar
Ace Mirko Zec - drums
wikipedia website dutch: https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customs



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Customs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.