So far, there have been at least four bands with the name "Cut Throat".

Cut Throat (Japan)

A long-running thrash metal band out of Japan. Features Sigh mastermind Mirai Kawashima.

http://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Cut_Throat/4275

Cut Throat (Los Angeles, California)

http://www.cutthroatonline.com/

Cut Throat was formed in 1997 by a group of talented, hard-working musicians. Tired of being told what type of music they should play, Cut Throat decided to go against the pervasive Grunge grain to play the hard rock music they love. Their defiance has paid off. After only a short time, they are taking hard rock and metal to a new generation. This all-original band has developed a strong local following, despite the recent lethargy of the L.A. music scene, by delivering its signature hard-hitting, energetic live performances. With the release of their self-titled, debut CD, along with a strong internet presence, Cut Throat has sparked international attention from both fans and magazines, fanzines, labels, and music-based websites.

Cut Throat's current line-up is led by vocalist Sean Okin, whose raw vocal ability contributes to the band's distinctive sound.
The guitar team of Darwin DeVitis and Ken Snyder each bring his own unique guitar style to this hard-driving mix: speedy, yet melodic with a heavy twist. Bassist John Anderson and drummer Ramsay Bisharah provide the solid, rhythmic foundation on which the music is built.


Cut Throat (California RAC band)

There is also the RAC / horror punk band out of Southern California.  They have released one album entitled "American Nightmare", which proved to be immensely popular in nationalist circles.  Their lineup includes members of the band Final War.



Cut Throat (Massachusetts)

Cut Throat was a hardcore punk band from Massachusetts, and signed to Rock Vegas Records. They released such great contributions to hardcore as their Another Day EP released in 2004.

Cut Throat (USA)
There's also a Oi! band from USA from the late 90's with Bohdan of old New York band Vibram 94  on vocals. (This is not the same band as the RAC project of the same name).

Cut Throat is/was a rapper from California,United States. He has released at least one album "The Album" in 1998. It came out from Black Tie Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cut+Throat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.