Victor Lenis, with influences from punk rock, the electric circus, the dancefloor and synthetic music from de 70’s and 80’s starts his musical project using machines (computers, synthesizers) as a technological mean of expression applied to the dancefloor.

He was member and founding member of many punk rock and synthetic rock bands in Bogota. In his music one can appreciate the plastic tone and a robotic concept that interrelate in an inhuman and articulated context.

Cute Heels was created in 2004 thinking also about the lack of proposals where one could appreciate the interaction of the artist with machines to be executed in a presentation 100% live act; oriented to the dancefloor giving an explosive energy blast to the receptor. Cute Heels starts performing in underground places in Bogota and in various clubs in the city showing a savage proposal for what the electronic sound used to be in the city until that year.

Electro as the foundation and old school techno are clear details of his music, also the meaning of italo-disco and electro disco for the dance floor.

Cute Heels has had more than 50 presentation in different clubs and underground events in Bogotá, at a national level and at some South American countries making it one of the most active live acts of Colombia.

Victor Lenis is also the creator of Black Leather Records, which has signed important local and international artists, stimulating the local scene and hosting many important events in Bogotá. In 2009 Black Leather Club opens its doors in Bogotá making it the only nightclub specialized in electro music in Colombia.

His latest work is the digital album “Love and Hate” released by Black Montanas, edited and re-released by Black Leather Records. It Contains 17 tracks of underground electronic music, punk attitude, synth dance, a lot of hardware, and a lyrical content of a very direct and personal nature.

http://www.myspace.com/cuteheels <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cute+Heels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.