There is more than one artist with this name:

1)  Cyanide are a little known English punk band. The group released two singles, "I'm A Boy" & "Mac The Flash," and a self titled LP on Pye Records in 1978, and a final single "Your Old Man" on Pinnacle Records in 1979.

2) Cyanide is an artist from India.

Formed in 2001 and several lineup changes later, Cyanide has come a long way from playing in school assemblies to performing on some of the biggest stages this country has to offer for rock music.
The environment that brought the band together has allowed them to groom a sound that mirrors the best of Modern Rock and at the same time combining elements of a wide spectrum of genres varying from Nu Metal to 80's Rock n' Roll. The band has become popularly known for its signature crunching guitar riffs and pop choruses giving them a solid, melodic and powerful sound with all the right ingredients that define today's modern rock music.

The band recently released their debut EP "Not Over Yet" with 44G Records


Contact us:

Rohan Solomon

+91 9810066721

e-mail: info@cyanidemusic.com

Website: http://www.cyanidemusic.com

3) Cyanide was the name of a Norwegian girl band. They are now called CyaNeed.

4) Cyanide is a Rock/Metal band from Hoofddorp - Noord Holland. The 5 young guys have been playing live shows for about 2 years now, using their package of loud guitars, low tuned bass, energetic drums and agressive screams mixed with eerie singing melodies to bring earaches and whiplashes where-ever they go.

They had played only 3 shows before they were invited to play at Artquake Open Air Festival 2006 with artists like Green Lizard, Nailpin, Opgezwolle, San Andreas and Samaritan and they also won studio time at the Pier K battle of the bands just into their first year. The local Born2bwild festival had invited Cyanide both in 2006 and in 2007 and they played P60 Amstelveen 2 times in 6 months! After winning a band contest they won a place at Artquake Festival for the second time, Playing with artists like Delain, Van Katoen, Relax, The Maple Room and Don Diablo. Certainly off on a promising start, they are getting more eager to play after each show! 

http://www.myspace.com/rainofcyanide

5 Cyanide were a Crossover/Thrash Metal band, formed in 1987 in New Jersey. They released one album, "World Peace Six Feet Under". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cyanide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.