There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Electronic rock from USA
2) Canadian band
3) Danish melodic death metal 

1) Cyanotic (USA) defines aggressive electronic rock, melding elements of classic Wax Trax! Records, coldwave, drum and bass, rhythmic noise, IDM and heavy metal to create a unique sonic assault. The band enjoys a rapidly growing fan base, thanks to strong support via word of mouth and relentless shows with the likes of Skinny Puppy, Front Line Assembly, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Meat Beat Manifesto, Chemlab, 16Volt, Andrew W.K., Acumen Nation, DJ? Acucrack, Stromkern, Dismantled, Bile, Nocturne, Rabbit Junk, Cruciform Injection, Defragmentation and many more.

Sean Payne, Drew Rosander and Brian Blake formed Cyanotic in 2002. The band released its "Mutual Bonding Through Violation" EP in 2003 under its own guise, Glitch Mode Recordings, to critical acclaim despite a limited printing of 1200.

"Transhuman" was released in mid-2005. It was Cyanotic's first full length album, containing 12 tracks and featuring production by Jason Novak of Acumen Nation / DJ? Acucrack and Chris Cozort of iammynewt. The album became an underground hit thanks to strong word of mouth, positive reviews, relentless touring and a rabid internet fanbase.

The original Transhuman sold out as of August 2006. Due to popular demand, Cyanotic began production on a 2-disc deluxe edition, Transhuman 2.0, soon after the "Hail the Glitch 2k6" summer tour. The double album features the original Transhuman, digitally remastered by Chris Cozort of iammynewt, as well a second disc featuring new songs, alternate mixes, bonus tracks and guest appearances from members of Front Line Assembly, 16 Volt, Acumen Nation, DJ? Acucrack, Mind Flux Funeral and fellow Glitch Mode buddies Rabbit Junk. Transhuman 2.0 saw its release via WTII Records and Bit Riot Records in association with Glitch Mode Recordings in July 2007.

Cyanotic has done remixes and production work for many prolific artists, including Pigface, Chemlab, 16 Volt, Acumen Nation, Rabbit Junk and See Colin Slash. Cyanotic has also contributed exclusive tracks to various compilations. 

2010 saw the release of "The Medication Generation," and a follow-up EP entitled the "MedPack Vol. 1" was released in 2011.

2014's "Worst Case Scenario Vol.1" is the band's most current album. It contained 12 original new songs and saw the band promoting the album live across North America and England. 


    * Sean Payne - vocals, programming, samples, loops
    * Chris H-Ski - guitars



OFFICIAL SITES
http://cyanotic.com/
https://twitter.com/cyanotic
https://facebook.com/cyanotic
http://glitchmode.com/
http://bitriotrecords.com/


____________________


2) Formed in early 1999, Cyanotic (Canada) hit the ground running in the Vancouver music scene and hasn't looked back. The sound is best described as a balance of the beautiful with the brutal, the melodic with the dirge. A reviewer recently described the music like this: …this wonderful bit of twisted sickness rammed its way through my speakers, full force. No time to ease into things, they jump straight into it, and never ever stop. Cyanotic believes in the value of a strong song over a good gimmick, an energetic and tight live show over makeup and masks, and integrity and honesty over packaged aggression. Opening for such acts as Disturbed, Mudvayne, Nothingface, Endo, and Strapping Young Lad within months of inception, Cyanotic has gained notoriety quickly and is poised for the next level.

Currently, Cyanotic promoting their first full length CD, Tragedy+Time=Comedy, released in early 2003. The band currently handles its own production, engineering, mixing, mastering, booking, merchandise, promotion, and website. A west coast tour is being planned to coincide with the release of Tragedy+Time= Comedy in 2003. Cyanotic music has appeared in two extreme sports videos and is being spun religiously by local college radio and Internet radio stations around North America.

Cyanotic consists of Conan Freeman - Vocals/Guitar, Cory McBain - Guitar/Keyboards, Lee Jeffers - Bass/Vocals, and Tom Peterson - Drums. Conan and Tom, the core members of Cyanotic, met through a local Vancouver trade magazine in January 1999 and began building the foundation of the band. By November 1999, the lineup had been solidified with the additions of Cory on lead guitar and Lee on bass, both handpicked from other Vancouver bands.

In the near future, members of Cyanotic plan to open their newly constructed studio, Rancho Compresso, to various artists from the West Coast giving them a chance to record their music in a relaxed setting. They also plan to write, record, and release new Cyanotic material as soon as it is completed. Cyanotic relies heavily on the Internet to distribute their new music and create awareness about the band. Several street teams have popped up all over North America as a result of Cyanotic's quick rise on such sites as garageband.com and MP3.com

3) Cyanotic (Denmark) was a Danish Melodic Death Metal band formed in 1992 and released 2 demos, "The Chasm Within" in 1992 and a promo demo in 1995 before releasing their only full-length album "Sapphire Season" on Nordic Records. "Sapphire Season" was recorded at Aabenraa Studiet February-May 1996 and produced and engineered by Jacob Hansen. The band re-united for a short while in 2008 for a radioshow.

Last known line-up:
Jan Rasmussen - Vocals
Jacob Krogholt - Guitar (Withering Surface)
Martin Olsen - Guitar
Claus Larsen - Bass
Niels Jørgenson - Drums (Withering Surface)

Martin Olsen is not the same guy who played in As We Fight.

Claus Larsen is identical with Claus von Schoubye who did the lyrics on Invocator. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cyanotic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.