There are some different bands called Cyclops:

1. Cyclops was a Dunedin, New Zealand, band made up of musicians who had gained fame in the city’s music scene. Nicknamed the “Dunedin Sound”, it was prominent in New Zealand in the 1980s and early 1990s. It was an “incestuous” scene and Martin Phillipps of The Chills stated that the groups “shared equipment, band members, and girlfriends”. Despite this, supergroups were rare. Cyclops were one of them. It featured two members of Trash, André Richardson (vocals, keyboards) and Bruce Blücher (vocals, guitars, keyboards), along with bassist Kathy Bull of Look Blue Go Purple and prolific musician Peter Jefferies on drums. During its existence, the band released three singles, one each in 1989, 1991, and 1993, followed by an album entitled Goat Volume in 1994. The style of the music was experimental, with many attributes of noise rock.

2. Cyclops was a New York City flash rock band in the late 70s and early 80s known for their theatrical shows which included outrageous light and pyrotechnics. The bass player would also spit fire (Until an unfortunate, though spectacular, accident). Even though Cyclops played on stages with bands such as Twisted Sister, they never did attract a record deal. Recently, the old studio tapes were “resurrected” and released to the public through Giraph Works LLC. Singer John Leone went on to fame with the heavy metal band Attacker but died of cancer in 1994.

3. Pre-Man Is The Bastard. Eric Wood on bass. Progressive instrumentals. "Me and Hitler" has been re-recorded by both Man Is The Bastard and The Bastard Noise, and "Pincer's Movement" was also re-recorded by the latter on their latest album "A Culture of Monsters".

4.  Cyclops is a New Jersey based independent rapper who has released a multitude of full length LP's and mixtapes. He has collaborated with Tokyo Cigar amongst others. His most recent album is titled "When Inspiration Hits."

5. Cyclops is a Boston based dubstep and riddim producer. He's had releases on Play Me Records, Bassweight, Hybrid Trap, Exobolt as well as collaborations with artists such as MVRKK, Jiqui, Briden, and Sharps. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cyclops">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.