There is more than one artist named Cycle:

1) Cycle is a Spanish band, Madrid-based, mixing electro music with rock. Originally the band members were the producer David Kano, the guitarist Carlos F. Calderón and two singers, La China Patino and Luke Donovan, but the latter left the group in 2005 and was replaced by El Cíclope. La China Patino is also a well-known actress and dancer in Spain, and currently presents a music program (iPop) in Spanish TV channel La 2. 
Cycle lyrics are in English, and their most famous songs are "Apple Tree" and "Confusion". Their first album is "Weak on the Rocks" (with 12 songs)."Weak on the Rocks" was recorded in Rec Division Studios in Madrid and mastered in Exchange in London (with Simon Davey).
The band has a really good live show, which is very interesting because the two singers do little performance. They have done versions of songs like "More" (Sisters of Mercy). 

2) Cycle is a Japanese metal band made up of Panther, Kenjirou, and Joe, all ex-SEX MACHINEGUNS members. On December, 2006, CYCLE, comprised of Panther(Gt), Joe(Dr), and Kenjirou Murai (Ba), made their debut. On March, 2007, 'D-Tracks'(3 numbers) was released on demo. For short periods, They played instrumental at all while beeing in quest of aggression and melody with Heavy Metal sound. On September, 2007, 'Ambivalence'(4 numbers) was released. The maxi single include 2 vocal numbers tentatively and suggested their direction. On March, 2008, they didn't halt and released 3 vocal numbers in download only . With guest vocal, Tsuyoshi Himura (from 'everset'), they achieved to establish their CYCLE sound that is applied pop sence by Himura's vocal and assimilate industrial side into thier own heavy sound. On August 27th, 2008, they finally released their first Album 'A Total Eclipse Of The Sun' (11 numbers).  They second album 'Metal Circus' released on the 16th of September

3) Cycle is a Japanese drum and bass duo (wize and GOKU) on Fenomono Inc. Their last album, Hyper Frequency, was released in 2006.

4) Cycle was a psychedelic rock band active in the 1960s.

5) Cycle is an ambient artist based in Hobart, Australia.

6) Cycle was a melodic hardcore / emocore band from Richmond, VA with members of Dayspring and Up Front.  They released two albums called The Fall Of A Demi-God in 1995 on Outback Records and Rollercoaster in 1996 on Second Nature Recordings. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cycle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.