There are three artists called Cynic.

1. Formed in Florida, United States in 1987, Cynic is a progressive metal band that recorded a few thrash metal demos before moving to a highly complex form of jazz-fusion influenced experimental/avant-garde death metal, manifested in their seminal album, 1993's Focus, which for over a decade was the band's only official release.

Cynic disbanded in 1994 due to artistic differences while working on their second album, but regrouped in 2007 to perform a series of shows. The reunion was successful, with the group also performing a new song, entitled Evolutionary Sleeper, a composition in the unique style of Focus. This was a harbinger of things to come, as the group recorded two additional tracks, Integral Birth and Adam's Murmur and then signed a contract with Season of Mist for two albums. Their second album, Traced in Air, was released on November 17, 2008 in Europe and November 25, 2008 in North America.

They released Re-Traced, a collection of re-workings of songs off Traced in Air, in 2010. This album features a different style that has been described as "space science fiction prog-folk". The album also includes the new track Wheels Within Wheels, which Cynic felt fit better on this album than Traced in Air.

Cynic's ground-breaking and pioneering footprint on the world of progressive metal continues to influence avant-garde and technical metal bands to these days. Members of Cynic have also participated in the projects Portal, Æon Spoke, Aghora, Exivious, Gordian Knot and Death.

Longtime drummer Sean Reinert died on January 24, 2020. Hank Shteamer of Rolling Stone magazine wrote a tribute to Reinert shortly after his passing commemorating his contributions to Death and Cynic.

Bassist Sean Malone died on December 9, 2020.

Cynic's lineup currently consists of Paul Masvidal (guitars, vocals), and drummer Matt Lynch, who joined the band in 2015.

2. British NWoBHM Cynic was founded in 1980, and still exists. They released two demos, one 2 track 7", one album and one 'best of' compilation. Their page is here: Cynic (UK)

3. The German RAC band Cynic released one album in 2008 called Wach endlich auf. They also released 3 splits in 2006, 2007 and 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cynic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.