Cynosure is a group of 6 musicians between the ages of 18-21 concentrating mainly on the genres of alternative\ slow rock music. They have been in the music industry close to 2 years and have performed in many events and competitions, the highlight of it being Sri Lanka’s premier event for local artists, TNL Onstage.

This group of individuals first formed in school as teenagers and from there on developed into one of Sri Lanka’s well know Alternative bands. Some of the bands highlights are, competing and entering the finals of TNL onstage in the year 2005 and also in 2006.Upto date they have performed in over 50 shows and concerts.

Another major highlight of the band has been the releasing of their first Original    “On a Road” which received   very good reviews from various radio stations here in Colombo and also a large amount of air play. Other than the Usual guitar and drums this band also emphasizes the importance of the piano, be it in the originals or the covers they play. This Fusion of guitar and piano brings out a sound that is unique to the band.

Currently the band has taken up the Endeavour of releasing an Extended Play (EP) better known as a miniature album which will comprise of 5 songs composed and written by the band itself by August 2007.

Cynosure could also refer to a Post Hardcore/Alternative Rock band from Melbourne, Australia, formed in 2008. Having many line-up changes in their not-so short existence, The bands current line-up consists of vocalist Daniel Somers, guitarist Kris Truman, bassist Steven Tarkasis and drummer Stefan Frederic. Recording their debut LP dubbed "A Constant State of Becoming" in early 2010, Cynosure are finally set to launch onto the Australian music scene with debut shows beginning in August 2010, And the album launch to follow shortly after.
For more information and a free download go to http://www.myspace.com/cynosureband



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cynosure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.