Band Members:

Jack Doolan - Vocals/Guitars/Synths
Stuart Deards - Guitars
Carl Dawkins - Bass
Chris Woollams - Drums/Percussion

Cypher16 are a young, talented new organic rock band, who fuse electronic and metal influences with hints of industrial to create their own unique musical mix.

In 2009 the band filmed their debut music video for the lead track off their 2008 EP 'Symphony To End It All (III)' in the incredible Gloucester Cathedral (the location for scenes from the Harry Potter films). The video has so far been received with unanimous praise - 'an epic location for an epic track' say many. The video is now being shown on the major music channels in the UK such as Scuzz television.

Still just in their teens, the band then went out on their first tour of AMERICA, playing with metal heavy-weights MUDVAYNE, as well as IN THIS MOMENT, HEAD P.E. and NONPOINT. The tour was a great success and the band have had numerous invites to return from fans and industry alike. They plan to return later in 2010.

In the autumn of 2009, Cypher16 became one of the first British metal bands to tour in INDIA, playing shows in GOA, BANGALORE, MUMBAI and PUNE. Again the response was huge, especially for such a young group of musicians.

2010 saw the release of 'THE MAN OF THE BLACK ABYSS' MINI-ALBUM, as well as tours around the UK, AMERICA, INDIA and EUROPE, video shoots, and much more. Cypher16 are currently in the studio working with Dan Weller (Sikth/Enter Shikari/Gallows) with new material to be released soon.

Most recently Cypher16 played a sold-out show supporting Swedish metal veterans DARK TRANQUILLITY, before heading out to India, where they played at The Great Indian October Festival, with LACUNA COIL.

As GLENN BUTLER (Powerplay/Metal Hammer) raved upon first hearing and subsequently seeing Cypher16, 'keep an eye on Cypher16 as they are sure to make a big name for themselves in the not too distant future'.

Check out www.facebook.com/cypher16 and www.myspace.com/cypher16 for more information! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Cypher16">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.