Da Capo is a name chosen by a few bands.

1) Da Capo were a part of the South German progressive scene. Taking their name from the second Love album, they were heavy influenced by the laid back American west coast sound of bands like Quicksilver Messenger Service and The Grateful Dead. Their privately recorded (in two days) and released (in a few hundred copies) album, Da Capo included excellent tracks like "Find My Way Home", "Young Man" and "Free" - melodic and tuneful songs that were in no way inferior to those of the American bands mentioned earlier. The long instrumental track "A Day In the Rest of My Life" was a nice twin guitar jam, reflecting their live sound. It is sad that the band never recorded in a studio again, disbanding about a year later. Da Capo's legacy is as one of the best German early seventies private pressings. Thanks to the Little Wing label, it's now available once again, featuring a superior, new sleeve design and also a bonus track.

2) Da Capo is a French indie pop duo of brothers: 
Band created in 1995 by the Paugam brothers (Nicolas and Alexandre). Their first album, "Minor Swing" is released in 1997 on Lithium/Labels. In 2001, "the Fruit" comes out on Autruche Records/Pop Lane. In 2004, they finalise "Da Capo Third" (you can listen to some extracts on their Myspace http://www.myspace.com/alexpaugam). Da Capo' s music is unique because of its wide influences: pop, jazz or experimental music.  
 

3) Da Capo is a small band from the East End of Glasgow. They had their first commercial publicity through the infamous "Sabotage Show" on East End Internet Broadcast, and from there went on to record a 4-track EP at CIN Studios, Glasgow, which was produced by Dave McCauley of Terra Diablo fame.

4) Da Capo was a Hungarian progressive metal band, formed in 1998, and were split up in 2003. Albums were Phaistos (2001) and Senkiföldje (2003), which had an  english version called Nowhere's Land. Band members Tamás Kozó and Róbert Csörnyi formed Wendigo after the split-up, with Zoltán Bátky, ex-singer of Stonehenge <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Da+Capo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.