Steaming from the Soundview section of the Bronx and Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Jay Storm and Sho-Biz are making marks and leaving lasting impressions. Partaking in their musical passion since high school, Da YoungFellaz has reached unbelievable heights that industry leaders admire. From recording with Hip Hop legends including Talib Kweli and Phil the Agony on their “The Underclassmen EP,” to collaborating with other music notables such as George Clinton, Ralph Myerz, Snoop Dogg and Nipsey Hussle, Da YoungFellaz are continuously free-styling, grinding, and hip hoping their way to the top. And by any means necessary

“Not being afraid to be judged on what we say on songs is what sets us apart from other artists,” says Sho-Biz. “I feel if you give 100 percent truth, no one can ever pull your card or test your truths.”

These New Yorkers haven’t just sat around and waited for fame to land in their lap. On the other hand, they dug their way into the industry and learned essential business skills to keep their career above the water. With their former mixtapes “Back 2 Da Basiks” and “The Reflection,” accumulating both more than 100,000 downloads; and landing sponsorships by major brands including Heavy Water Vodka, Prohibited NYC, Filter017 and Moods of Norway, Da YoungFellaz understand music as a business, and not merely a craft. 

Recognized independently under New Rich Entertainment, Da YoungFellaz have gained notable press including mentions in AllHipHop, DJBooth, 2DopeBoyz, YouHeardThatNew, and HipHopEarly to name a few.  This year alone they’ve been full throttle with features on Worldwide Wednesday Vol.1 Mixtape hosted By G-Unit’s own DJ Rob-E-Rob and their own “Underclassmen EP” buzzing all over major sites such as Amazon, iTunes, and Rhapsody. Da YoungFellaz’s latest project, “Sophisticated Ignorance” Mixtape, is building quite a repertoire, as a follow-up from their most recent EP that has caught the attention of Hip-Hop heavyweights. Scheduled to be released September 18th, 2012. This highly anticipated Mixtape is expecting to further launch the duo into commendable prestige.

These strides however are not new to Da YoungFellaz; as of February of 2011, the Hip Hop duo has even hit international appeal when they opened the Nordic World Ski Championship in Olso, Norway. Performing in front of a crowd of 50,000 and over 120 million viewers, the group remains dedicated to providing their growing national and international fanbase with music they can vibe too. “I think that plane ride from New York to Stavanger, Norway to open up for Snoop Dogg, is when it finally hit me that this is my career." says Jay Storm. “It’s been crazy!”

Showing no signs of slowing down, Sho-Biz and Jay Storm credits much of their inspiration to the adversity seen in their childhood.  “Seeing my dad chase the music dream and not getting where he wanted to be, helped me push further to get where I want to be musically, says Sho-Biz. “The day I told my parents I’m giving up school to chase my music dreams, I knew there was no turning back.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Da+Youngfellaz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.