This musical romantic weaves together a true "love-sound" that falls between honeyed melody and all out rave. They take the acoustics further with the partner & wife pairing, The Long Lost.

Once working from a studio in Santa Monica, California. A young Daedelus began noodling Bass Clarinet notes, and soon after attempting Double-Bass. After an ill-fated affair pondering classical and jazz, rave paved the way, and a burgeoning record collection fueled Daedelus’ artistic creativity, preparing the path to their first full length release, Invention. Inspired by '30s, '40s and '70s grooves, and defying genres such as downtempo and hip-hop, Daedelus gradually begins to venture into the L.A. afterdark.

The music on Invention combines multiple instruments, including non-traditional ones such as computer printers, toy pianos, and among other bent and mis-used, the Omnichord. Daedelus invites local MC talents Busdriver and Sach to flow over the masterful bonus versions of "Quiet Now" and "Pursed Lips Reply." Invention unfolds in dynamic ranges of emotion.

Daedelus has also released "Her's Is >" on Phthalo, an e.p. "The Household" on Scott Herren’s Eastern Developments imprint and has produced "The Weather" album for Mush Recordings. Then "Rethinking The Weather", "Meanwhile...", "A Gent Agent", "Of Snowdonia", "Axe Murderation", "Exquisite Corpse", "Denies The Day's Demise", "Fair Weather Friends", "Love To Make Music To" and it's SPs for Ninjatune recordings, "Friends of Friends vol. 1" T-shirt EP along side Jogger, "Bespoke" is their most recent LP. 

Daedelus is now found pouring lighter fluid on the turntables at dublab.com, fretting endlessly over their Monome assisted live sets, and generally thinking in threes and fours.

They have worked with Laura Darling, Busdriver, Frosty, Inara George, Bilal, Baths, MF Doom, Prefuse73, Absract Rude, Madlib, Flying Lotus, Pigeon John, Hrishikesh Hirway,Radioinactive, High Priest (Anti-Pop Consortium), N'fa (1200 Techniques), Taz Arnold and Om'mas Keith(Sa-Ra), Michael Johnson, CYNE, TTC, Carlos Nino(Build an Ark, Amoncontact)+ many more. Their live shows, which utilize Monome, have amazed audiences across the US, Europe, Trans-Tasman, South East Asia, China, Middle East and Japan. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daedelus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.