Rising from the ashes of Uncreated (speed-thrash metal 1992-1995) and Darkside Dimension (1995-1996), DAEMUSINEM officially formed in the beginning of 1999 by Patrick Zavanese and Gianni Abrardi. A year later their first demo “Darkside Dimension”, containing songs that go back ‘till 1995. sees the light; the demo was recorded at “One Voice Studios” with the precious help of Daniele Giordana (Tour staff for Obituary, Agnostic Front, Madball, Hatebreed) . Any months later the Cold Blood Industries of Henry Sattler (God Dethroned) signs Daemusinem for three albums without budget but with a worldwide distribution. After having found the right drummer in the person of Massimo Altomare aka Fog (Black Flame, ex-Mortuary Drape, Discipline, Glorior Belli), Daemusinem hits again the One Voice Studios to record their debut album called “Daemusinem Domine Empire” The sound presents a mixture of fast, melodic black/death metal… Lyrically the band was influenced by darkness, ancient times and macabre. The artwork of Daemusinem Domine Empire was created by Kris Verwinp (Marduk, Absu, Enthroned, Old Man’s Child, Immortal, etc…). About a year later Massimo Altomare leave the band to concentrate all his time for his first band Black Flame; a few week later join the band Summum Algor (Adversam, Nefarium, Natassievila, ex-Rotten Gore) on drums and Ale Gindri (Res Divina) on bass. With this line up the band record the EP called simply “Promo 2003”. Cold Blood Industries split up the contract signed the band and for two years the band stops his work. On spring 2005 the band rise again with a new line-up: Patrick on guitar, D.O.C. (Vinterfrost, ita) on vocals, Diego (Vinterfrost, ita) on bass and Summum Algor on drums. In the summer the band record the “Promo 2005” and in February 2006 F. Vermin join the band on second guitar. The sound of the band change completely, a very fast Death metal, with Swedish Black metal and brutal influences, mixing riffs style of Entombed, Dark Funeral, Vader, Cannibal Corpse, Vomitory; the thematic of the lyrics changes, infact they tract explicit satanic and antichristian themes, degrade and destruction of mankind. After few weeks the band plays live with the legendary band Impaled Nazarene. On winter ’06-’07 Daemusinem come again in One Voice Studio to record their second album called “Diabolical Carnage” and their looking for a new label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daemusinem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.