Daggers Drawn is an original metal band from Plymouth, UK. Formed by Dan and Matt (Epps) from the ashes of popular Plymouth metal veterans Wishlist in 2009, the aim from the outset was to write heavy music that didn't sound like every other band around. 

Fuelled by Dan's love for heavy yet melodic and memorable riffs and Matt's penchant for groove and technical flair, along with a refusal to retread the Deathcore path done to death by many bands at this point, the first songs referenced bands such as Gojira, Meshuggah, Machine Head and She Said Destroy, but with a unique flavour all their own. 

Vocalist Matt (Chapman) joined the band in 2009 bringing a fierce, guttural growl and rich melodic singing, with bassist Rhys joining in early 2010 and both providing the low-end and adding higher register tapped licks that negate the need for a second guitarist. Finally, Daggers Drawn had become the band they had always threatened to be. Blending equal parts high speed thrash riffs, heavy groove-based rhythms and mournful down-tempo musical passages, the end result is a progressive take on metal with no boundaries. 

The debut self-titled EP was recorded and produced by the band themselves in May 2010 (with the exception of the drum tracks) and is available on CD or as a free download. 

The completion of the EP also heralded the start of the band's live performances, with gigs in Plymouth venues throughout the remainder of 2010 and plans to travel further afield in 2011. Already Daggers Drawn has made an impact on Plymouth's live scene, impressing audiences and bands alike with a tight and powerful sound full of inventive twists and turns, and three-way vocals.

With newly written songs progressing the band's sound to new heights of technical prowess and devastating heaviness, Daggers Drawn is set to make a real impact on the UK metal scene...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daggers+Drawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.