here are at least three bands using this band.

1. Dagger was a canadian Hard Rock/Heavy Metal band from the 80s.
They released a album called Not Afraid Of The Night in 1985.

2. Dagger was a mexican metal band. 

There are four bands named Dagger.
None of them is currently active

DAGGER was born during the first months of 2004. Conceived by guitarist and singer Gaby de la O, Dagger's main objective was to attack the lack of girl bands in Mexico and the idea that "girls can't play". Their first show was at a small party in the Bondojo neighborhood, south Mexico City, playing some Metal classics.

For June, with a mix of covers and original material, Dagger performed at the contest "The King of the Metal", promoted by Indie label Nuevos Ricos remaining as the winner band of the night. Since then, Dagger has performed in diverse venues and major festivals in Mexico such as Manifest 2006, Monterrey Metal Fest II, Women's Festival at the Zocalo in Mexico City, Festival del Centro Histórico, Lady Fest Monterey and Plataforma Puebla 06.

Dagger has shared stage with The Delays, Tim "Ripper" Owens, Neil Turbin, Azraels Bane, Ignitor, Los Fancy Free, Las Ultrasonicas, Twin Tones, Yokozuna, among many other bands.

Their first “Dagger Summer Demo” in 2005 secured them immediately great press reviews and interviews in important newspapers, magazines and webzines in Mexico, USA, Canada and The Netherlands.

Dagger is currently preparing their debut EP for 2007 co-produced by Jenny Bombo from legendary all-girl band Las Ultrasonicas.

The band embraces seventies metal guitar riffs with a mix of punk and dark vocals. Dagger’s infectious primitive rock sound is a show not to be missed.

 Discography:

Upcoming Debut EP (2008!)
Libre (2006)
Dagger Summer Demo (2005) 

 www.myspace.com/daggermx


3. Dagger is a Swedish hard-ropck band featuring (former) Dismember, Grave and Sideburn members. They relaeased their first EP, "Mainline Riders", in 2013.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dagger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.