2003 - Dagor Dagorath band was founded by Vorog (guitar/lead vocal), Getman Azach (keyboards/back vocal) Mizgir (bass guitar). After the half year work with the material, the band plays its first live-gig, where DD gets to know with "Psychopatia Sexualis", who joins as a drummer. The band makes more performances together with different bands.

2004/2005 -Two members of the band joins the army, and the artistic life of DD is a little bit frozen. Nevertheless the band records their demo-album "Times of Distress" and continues making live performances.

2006 - "Psychopatia Sexualis" leaves DD for some personal reasons. The band begins to work on creating of the new songs.

2007 - After returning from the army, all the members finish with the material and in august start recording the songs for their debut-album. "Psychopatia Sexualis" takes part in this process as a session-musician.

2008 - DD finishes the recording of the debut-album "Yetzer Ha'Ra". In march the band is supplemented with Larion (lead vocal).

2009 – Finally, our hard work came to an end! Dagor Dagorath finished working on the debut album “Yetzer Ha'Ra”.
Some details about the album: Sound engineering was made by Miko at Metal sound Studios, Graphics were made by the famous graphic designer Seth Siro Anton. After recording and having some shows together, "Psychopatia Sexualis" decided to leave DD, but his place was taken by a new drummer “Molot”. In the new assemble, Dagor Dagorath made live shows and also the presenation of "Yezer Ha'Ra". In the 28th August, the album "Yetzer Ha'Ra" was released through More Hate Productions on the Russian Federation. Dagor Dagorath was featured in some radio shows in Israel, and also in the November issue of Metal Hammer UK.

2010 - The album is planned to be released worldwide by the german label Twilight Vertrieb, at the 23rd of January. The band is now working hard on new material and  lookng for live shows in Europe in summer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dagor+Dagorath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.