Hailed as the Philippines' Kings of Dark Metal. Dahong Palay has been in the Metal and Underground scene in Manila for over 18 years now. The band was founded and managed by Ramon "The Doctor" Zialcita of LA.105 during the reign of the 80's metal era. Dahongpalay released compilation albums under Tone Def and released a Debut Album KAPATIRAN NG BAKAL AT APOY under Ivory records.


DAHONG PALAY, one of the Philippines' prime movers in the underground metal scene is about to unleash it's venom once more via their up-coming album probably this year. Heavy, Aggressive, Dark, Melodic and Intimidating music is what you could expect from this group.


Dahong Palay – pertains to a breed of snake that is considered to be one of the most venomous in the planet. 

Dahong Palay really marked its venom to their audience and listeners during those times. After a few gigs and tons of radio airplay, the group earned the title of The Philippines’ answer to Black Sabbath and was even later christened as “The Philippines’ Kings of Dark Metal.”. The rest as they all say is history.
The band has appeared in almost all of the compilation albums of Tone Def Label and in 1996, Dahong Palay released its debut album “Kapatiran ng Bakal at Apoy” under a major label – Ivory Records. The sales of the album went up to gold.
They also made a rendition of Florante’s “Pinay” and was included in Ivory Record’s Himig Album 1 and gained a lot of airplay in LA105.9 and even other stations as well.

Genre(s): Heavy Metal

Lyrical theme(s): life

Origin: Manila, Philippines
Formed in: 1993 
Current label: Ivory Records
Status: Active
 
Current line-up
Eurd Dela Hostria - Vocals/Bass
Joji Crisologo - Guitars (Descant Gott)
Ramil - Drums

Former/past member(s)
Derrick “The Animal” Periodico - drums (Whiskey Dingoes; Empty Babylon; Temper of the times sessionist)
Booths Oca - guitars (Hayp, Hollowed Ground)
Paul Magat - Drums (Kabaong ni Kamatayan/KNK)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dahong+Palay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.