There is more than one band with this name

1) A DIY hardcore band from Prague and Olomouc, Czech Republic which is no longer together

2) A blackened crust/post-black metal band from Grand Rapids, MI which is active

3) Two-piece hardcore/grindcore band from San Francisco, CA.

4) A black/death metal band from Switzerland.

1. Dakhma was formed in summer 2008 after Lakmé decided to take a break. First few months they worked as a four-piece containing 3 of 4 members of Lakmé. In this line-up they recorded a demo in september 2008 after few rehearsals and played their first show in november 2008.  In December 2008 the other guitarist joined and later he recorded his guitar track for the old demo. The demo with both guitar tracks can be downloaded on http://dakhma.wordpress.com
Their style can be described as dark, undertuned and angry hardcore with some touches of neo-crust. Lyrics deal with social and political issues but still on personal and non-preaching level. 
The band adopts strictly DIY approach and vegan/vegetarian lifestyle.
Members now play in Remek, Gattaca, Kung-Fu Girlz,  and Abstinentia.

2. Dakhma is a two-piece hardcore band formed in 2012, based out of San Francisco, CA. They are heavily influenced by punk, grindcore, powerviolence, noise and doom metal. They can be found at http://dakhmasf.bandcamp.com

3. Dakhma is a three piece band conceived towards the end of 2013, with their first demo released in march of 2014. They play a unique blend of atmospheric black metal mixed with post rock, crust, and grind. Lyrics consist of avant-garde emotion tied to current issues and events. Dakhma is heavily immersed in DIY culture originating from members previous involvement  in Punk.  

Bandcamp

4. Dakhma is a Black/Death band from Zurich Switzerland. They have a release out entitled "Astiwihad​-​Zohr" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dakhma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.