More than one artist exists by the name of Dale Howard:

1. A country musician from Marshall, Texas.

2. An electronic music producer from the UK.

1. Dale Howard was born in Marshall, Texas a small historic town located in the Piney Woods of East Texas.  His adoptive father moved the family to Corpus Christi to accept an employment opportunity performing iron work when Dale was 8 years old.  Dale grew up listening to the “Great Gentleman” Jim Reeves, watching Captain Kangaroo, and attending Garden Dale Baptist Church.  As a young man, Dale was interested in music and magic.   

Mamma (Dale’s grandmother) and his mother would play all of Jim Reeves records, and Dale learned every song by heart at an early age.  Jim Reeves was not only a mentor for Dale, but was also his fourth cousin.  Other family favorites were George Jones, Conway Twitty, and Merle Haggard just to name a few.  Dale sang in the church choir and was awarded Royal Ambassador of the Year.  In elementary school, he won First Place in a talent show performing “Dear Uncle Sam”.  Dale began playing the guitar when his family moved to Fort Worth, Texas at the age of 16 years old.  There he attended Kennedale High School and was the lead singer in a country band named The Pigeons. The band performed for numerous social events including school sponsored Halloween and Christmas parties. 
Dale’s interest in magic began at the age of six when he saw a “Magician Black Stone” episode on Captain Kangaroo.  His Christmas wish was answered when Santa brought him a Magic Kit for beginners. Over the years Dale had the opportunity to meet several illusionists including David Copperfield, where he had the pleasure of exchanging tricks of the trade. Dale’s performances evolved into teaching safety to children through magic.  This has provided extra income for his family while pursuing his singing career.  Dale has performed magic shows for day care, schools, and corporate entities.  He has had the pleasure of performing in a benefit show for Opal Jennings, Officer Scott Monee, and the Grand Opening for Troy Aikmen’s Auto Mall in Fort Worth. 

In 2002, Dale expanded his magic shows to include DJ, Karaoke, and personal performances.  Soon after, he was asked to produce and perform in a show to greet the troops coming home from Iraq.  This was very special to Dale because his son was one of military who experienced his dad’s performance.  Dale has performed Jim Reeves and Neil Diamond songs at several of North Texas venues including River Oaks Texas Opry, Wylie Texas Opry, Stevenville Texas Opry, Cash Opry, Gilmer Opry, Real Country Opry, and Carthage Texas Opry.  He has had the opportunity to participate in the competition for the 2006 Texas Country Music Hall of Fame Showcase and was selected to compete in the final Showcase. 

  In 2006, Dale recorded his first project “Wings”, with his label Pot’O Gold Records This project was recorded in Nashville, and has been released. Dale has just released his single (Fight Naked ) to 2200 radio stations,with his full project to be released shortly. CD ’s may be purchased at www.cdbaby.com , Ernest Tubb Records Ft. Worth, Lawerence Brothers, Nashville Tn., Loretta Lynn’s Gift Shop, Hurricane Mills Tn.

2. Dale Howard first burst onto the scene in 2009 with his debut EP on Neurotraxx Deluxe 'Gotta Be Deep', which topped the Beatport Deep House chart reaching the Number 1 spot. Since then he has been making waves with an array of releases on world renowned labels like Fear Of Flying, Loco Records and many others. As well as having countless top 20's and 50's Dale has also reached Number 2 and Number 3 on the Beatport Deep House Chart with his tracks 'Dropout' and '4 Hour Bang', which also stayed in the Top 10 for 9 weeks. In 2010 Dale launched his own imprint 'Static Audio', which is a hotbed for established and up and coming Deep and Tech House producers alike and features some of the biggest Deep House artists in the world. With his productions having support from artists like Richie Hawtin, Nic Fancuilli, Mark Knight, Florian Meindl, Funkagenda, Karol XVII & MB Valence, Ekkohaus, Robert Owens, Filthy Rich, Ronan Portela, Soul Miniority and a load more, Dale continues to make top notch Deep House and has forthcoming releases on even more of the worlds finest house labels. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dale+Howard">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.