There are multiple artists named Dali:

1) A  Japanese idol group, now defunct
2) A pseudonym of a USA indie / psychedelic folk artist
3) A pseudonym of Israeli trance artist Dalit Eizner
4) A Japanese visual kei band
5) A Bellarusian rock band
6) A British alt rock band

1) A defunct Japanese idol group (sometimes stylised ＤＡＬＩ), which formed in May 1992, with members 高橋美鈴 (Misuzu Takahashi), 西本麻里 (Mari Nishimoto), 石沢晶 (Akira Ishizawa), and 土屋さゆり (Sayuri Tsuchiya). The group performed the first version of ムーンライト伝説 (Moonlight Densetsu), the opening theme song of the first and second seasons of the Sailor Moon anime.

The group was disbanded immediately after its debut with “Moonlight Densetsu,” and Misuzu Takahashi and Mari Nishimoto formed the duo Manish. Manish has, however, been in hiatus since October 2002 and reportedly disbanded, though there has been no official statement. 

2)  Dali is a 23 year old dream-folk singer/songwriter from Western New York where she began performing at the age of 13. In 2011, she moved to Portland, Oregon where she began writing her own music. In between 2 years of coffee, cigarettes, and odd jobs she tinkered with covers until writing a demo tape ("Un-Album") and releasing singles. She is currently back in WNY releasing new tracks ("Easy Fool", "Waking Dream" etc.) and writing her upcoming album "Still Life".

Sites: YouTube, SoundCloud, BandCamp and Twitter

3) A pseudonym of central Israeli trance artist Dalit Eizner. She started to “hit the decks” in 2001 (that’s when she got her nickname). 2003 was her breakthrough year when she started to play in local clubs in Israel. Soon after, she began learning music and sound engineering. With a background as a composer/singer of an Israeli rock band and playing the drums on a late night show on Israeli Cable TV, she got her first exposure when she was asked to write the theme track for ‘Rave-o-lution--the biggest festival held last year in Israel. Her trademark is her onstage performance which charges the electrodes in the crowd and makes the dance floor vibrate in her sound. In her own words she likes trance because it's "power music."

4) A Japanese visual kei band (sometimes stylised Ｄａｌｉ) is a Japanese visual kei band signed with Under Code Production.

5) A Bellarusian rock band which toured all over Belarus and Poland. "Dali" are laureates of "Golden Hit-2005", Music Contest - Tribute to Vladimir Muliavin" and finalists of the national qualifying contest "Eurovision-2006" (with the song Europe Heart's Groove). The band is ready to invite the audience to the journey of fantasies and show the essence of Belarusian character. "Dali" say about themselves that they may be liked and may be adored - subtle insolence and artistic helter-skelter - it is all "Dali". During the qualifying tour of "EuroFest" the band presented "Dream with Me".

6) DALI are a Southampton-based alt-rock band with key influences panning from Biffy Clyro, Mallory Knox and Don Broco. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dali">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.