Damas Biography
Jamaica’s youngest dancehall, reggae sensation Damas also known as Christopher Williams to his friends and family; has been labeled by many as a co pioneer of a new era in reggae and is the epitome of dancehall music. Born and raised in some of Kingston’s toughest communities Harbour View and Craig Town with his mother Tancie Henry Damas strived through life. At an early age he was exposed to music by his neighbor and lifelong companion Freddy Dread, who had a sound called “The Mighty Emperor”. Damas had dreams and aspirations of becoming a Journalist that this era has never seen before. Due to his love of reading and also through the motivational upliftment of his teacher at Jamaica College and St. Andrew College which is located in Kingston Jamaica where he graduated with four subjects at the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) level. He was a great student but later had a change of heart and mind of becoming Journalist after he had realized his true calling and nature which he could not resist any longer. In May of 2007 he entered and won the Digicel Idol - a talent competition for workers at Digicel Jamaica where he was employed at the time. Before entering the competition Damas was always writing not only music but poems and short skits for academic and personal reasons in order to push his life forward and open up new horizons, still he was always a fan of dancehall and reggae music. In high school he use to perform the music of the man who he thought was on the higher echelon of his music at that time and that man was known as Sizzla Kolonji. Damas is a big fan of Sizzla Kalonji; his career has been greatly influenced, impacted and guided by Miguel Collins otherwise known as Sizzla Kalonji. "Sizzla is greatest Dj who ever did it, he is everything, the way he performs on stage, the way he talks on interview all that" said Damas. It was after competing in the Digicel Idol in 2007 where he was introduced to the famed Jahnoi from Flo Factory Music. Jahnoi took him in and groomed him, trained him and taught him a thing or two before recording a commercial track for Digicel. Damas’s career got its first professional boost when he met Kemar Walker (Kwarter Key) from Moshouse Production an empire in music production in Jamaica, with whom he recorded his first single “The Suffering”, aimed at the struggling people in Jamaica who lived in the toughest communities and to people all across the world who needed the right words for them to push on and make better of themselves in life.  Damas went on to work with 8mile Music where he recorded his second single titled "Step Up”. He also describes his style as "reality with catchy melodies and lyrics that are appealing largely to teenagers and young adults across the world". The young star has worked with hit making producers such as “Bulbie” from Anchor Recording Studio the legendary Sly and Robbie and many others. His tracks can be heard on your airwaves daily penetrating that of your mind and impeding beautiful vocals on your ears. Damas is adamant about shaping his career for the international market and beyond. "My goal in my music career is to elevate to the status of Bob Marley, Mavado and beyond of the beyond." It was ordained by God himself for Christopher Williams to reach such heights and unrealistic levels in his music. The crafty young talent is quickly spreading his wings locally. Damas is confident in his career and his ability to interloculate and communicate his message clearly to the people worldwide. According to Damas "THERE IS NO LIMITS".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.