Damaged Justice is a metal band from Germany formed in 1995.
www.damaged-justice.de

Founded in 1995 Damaged Justice started as five man group in Wanne-Eickel. But yet in 1996 guitarist Patrick “Paddy” Schmidt left the band realizing that the guys were playing Metal, not Blues. Thorugh the next years Damaged Justice went on as a four man group and released the first Demo-Tape “Damaged Justice” (It really was a TAPE!!!) in 1997. In this formation also produced the “Bloodred Sunrise”-EP (2000) and rereleased it in 2001. The titlesong of the Output also appeared on the “Sounds of 2000” Sampler. Their first full length Album was recorded in 2004 so that “Unholy fire” was published in 2005. In that year Carsten Jäckel joined the band as a second guitar player, too. Durring the preproduction of the fourth Output “IRIS” Carsten left the band in 2007 in cause of heavy personal problems. That led the band to a phase of reorientierung on aims and interests. As a result the production of the Album had to wait and the band kicked out their old friend and long-year bassplayer Stefan Grill in 2008. The quest for a new guitar player went on without results but with Daniel “JoS” Lucas a new bassplayer was found who borught new inputs in the basswork and filled up the sound with backround vocals. In October and November of this year the band recoreds their new Album at the the deeptone Records studios. The band is looking forward to release “IRIS” in February of 2009 and play a lot of gigs in that and the following years. The band also promisses to present a new Album until the end of 2011 (2012, 2013, 2014 and so on). ‘Cause you know, it’s done when it’s done and it ain’t over until it’s over.

There is also a Metallica tribute band based in Chicago called Damaged Justice.
www.damagedjustice.com

It is also a Dutch Metallica tribute band that was started as a side project by the members of Chain
www.damagedjustice.nl <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damaged+Justice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.