There are 9 artist's that share this name:

1) Damage  was a UK-based boyband who hit their peak in the late 90s.
The band featured Andrez Harriott, Jade Jones, Coreé Richards, Rahsaan J Bromfield and Noel Simpson, and they achieved their first Top 20 UK hit with "Love 2 Love" in 1996, which was swiftly followed by "Forever" that same year.

A self-titled debut album followed in 1997, which spawned two top 10 hits, "Love Guaranteed" and a cover of the classic Eric Claption hit "Wonderful Tonight".

The band then took an extended hiatus following the collapse of their record company, but returned in 2000 with their second album "Since You've Been Gone" which spawned 5 more Top 40 hits.

Harriott and Jones are now members of Cherryblackstone  

2) Trash Metal band from Finland. Formed from the ashes of Finnish hardcore-band  Poliisivaltio.

One of the first Finnish bands to play Speed/Thrash Metal in addition to Vendetta.

3) Damage were an ethically minded, musically refined hardcore band fronted by Robby Redcheeks (Dead By 23 label owner). Their brand of raw hardcore had an old school punk energy that was nothing short of awe inspiring. Kicking and spitting, fast and gruff, they did it the right way, the only way in their opinion. Damage members also had stints in I Hate You, Knives Out, The Boils, American Nightmare, Champion, and many more relevant hardcore/punk bands.

4) Damage are a thrashcore/powerviolence 4 piece from Glasgow, Scotland formed in spring 2008. 

5) Damage is a drum & bass producer based in the UK who frequently contributes to Outbreak Records, Invader Recordings, and collaborates with labelmates such as Dylan and Audio
6) Damage is Gideon Baard (James Copeland was also a member), a psychedelic trance producer from South Africa. Damage was formerly the part of Chemical Crew, but his second album will be released by MMD Records and Yabai Records together. His music can be bestly described as night time full-on psytrance.

7) Damage is a rock cover band from the Netherlands.

8) Damage is a Japanese industrial band. (http://www.damage-web.com)

Albums
Signal Newyork - 2006

9) Damage are/were an ultra fast NYCHC band circa 1983-1988.

Albums
Sins Of Our Fathers (Gnarl) - 1984
Live Off The Board At CBGB (Celluloid) - 1986
Members

*Original members, 1983-1985: Boot (Steve Hudecek), Mike Kirkland, Steve MacAllister, Denny Morrison, Ted Warner.
*Second lineup, 1985-1986: Patrick Blank, Mike Kirkland, Steve MacAllister, Denny Morrison, Ted Warner.
*Third lineup, 1987-1988: Steve MacAllister, Sean McDonough, Virgil Moorefield, Denny Morrison, Ted Warner.

Mike Kirkland became a member of Prong

See http://www.last.fm/music/Damage+(NY) 

10) Damage was a synth hardcore band from Florida circa 1984. LPs included Synthology, Jubilee 'O' Kindness, and Euphoria.

11) Damage is a thrash/groove metal band from Mexico. They released there first album in 2010 called Pure Alcoholic Metal. Check them out on there myspace at 
http://www.myspace.com/metaldamage

12) Damage is a hardcore punk band from Sweden.
They blend 80's US-style hardcore of bands like RKL and Swedish 90's hardcore such as Section 8 mixed with the more modern style of bands like Career Suicide and Psyched To Die. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.