Damh the Bard is British musician Dave Smith based in Brighton. A Druid whose spirituality is expressed through his music, storytelling and poetry, he draws on the Bardic traditions in his performances weaving a tapestry of myth, peace, and Pagan anthems. Leaving academia, Damh works within that world of myth that cannot be proved; where the Faerie really do dance on Midsummer's Eve, where the trees talk, and the Hollow Hills take you into the realms of Annwn. 

Playing  his first live concerts at the age of 11 in pubs on the Isle of Wight, he played in several rock bands during his teens - one of which, Targa, played regularly on the London circuit, finally getting their own headlining concert at London’s prestigious Marquee Club. 

During the 1990s he was trained as a Bard, poet and storyteller in the Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids, and it was during this time that he found his artistic expression within folk music, forming the ‘Mystic Folk’ band Spiral Castle for a support concert with Robin Williamson (founder member of the Incredible String Band). Spiral Castle played regularly during the late 90s at festivals including the Pagan Federation International Conference at Fairfield Halls in Croydon. 

He released his debut solo album, "Herne’s Apprentice", in 2002. He followed this with "The Hills They Are Hollow" in 2003, "Spirit of Albion" in 2006, and "The Cauldron Born" in 2008. In 200, he released "Tales from the Crow Man", an album of mostly traditional folk songs alongside Eric Bogle’s classic anti-war song Green Fields of France. In 2010 he the live album "As Nature Intended" (download only). His album "Antlered Crown and Standing Stone" was released November 2012, and "Sabbat" was released in 2014. 

After the release of Sabbat, Damh began a multi-year project to create the Four Branches of the Mabinogion in audio format, with song, story and film-type scoring. Y Mabinogi – The First Branch was released in 2017 with The Second Branch coming out the following year. The Third Branch was released in 2020. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damh+the+Bard">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.