DAMNATIONS DAY AUSTRALIAN HEAVY METAL

Damnations Day is already proving to be one of the most promising up and coming metal acts around. They have now completed their debut album "Invisible, the Dead" written by Mark Kennedy guided under the professional eye of producer Dean Wells (Teramaze) who also contributed lead guitar on the album. Their sound is an undefinable genre of heavy metal, with elements of thrash, power, and melody lead by the classically trained power, range and aggression of Mark Kennedy on vocals. Shredding guitar solos by guest lead guitarist Dean Wells, and immense power from Dean Kennedy and Luke Vinken on drums and bass. With 9 tracks, varying from the aggressive thrash influenced "I Am" and traditional melodic monster "Lucid Dreaming". Broken up with two beautifully written acoustic tracks in "Ghost in Me" and "A World to Come".

Starting out in 2005 drawing influences from bands such as Metallica, Iron Maiden, System of a Down and many more. The guys quickly gained a following and established a regular headline in Geelong. After recording and releasing their debut EP in 2008/09 they quickly pushed into Melbourne further establishing a loyal fan base and following. Playing with bands such as Sybreed, Black Majesty, LORD, Dreadnaught and Teramaze.

In 2011 and 2012 Damnations Day self-funded their own successful tour throughout Australia and New Zealand with friends Lamort, playing in venues such as Kings Arms, as well as recording their much anticipated debut album.

Early 2012 Damnations Day recruited lead guitarist Jon King from Melbourne. With incredible chops and tasteful feel he adds an even stronger element to an already promising line up.

Elegantly balancing between melodic heavy metal and thrash-influenced power on their debut "Invisible, The Dead", Australian metal act Damnation's Day delivers an earsplitting slab of high quality music for the next generation.

Bandmembers:
Mark Kennedy - Vocals, Guitars
Jon King - Guitars
Dean Kennedy - Drums
Luke Vinken - Bass

Guest Musicians:
Dean Wells - Guitars
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damnations+Day">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.