Damnation Angels is a Symphonic Power Metal band from Doncaster - South Yorkshire, UK. Members: Ignacio Rodriguez - Vocals, Will Graney - Guitars, Nic Southwood - Bass, John Graney - Drums. Formed in late 2006 by Will and John Graney, Damnation Angels set out to create a new benchmark in symphonic metal. After finding their footing playing local shows with numerous members the band eventually found a solid line-up to build their sound upon and decided it was time to take it to the next level.

2009 - Shadow Symphony

In February 2009 the band headed to the Grindstone Studio in Ipswich, home of esteemed producer Scott Atkins (Sylosis, Cradle Of Filth). After many months of hard work, their first EP “Shadow Symphony” was born. Finnish artist Jan Yrlund (Korpiklaani, Turisas, Manowar) brought “Shadow Symphony” to life with the artwork he created. “Shadow Symphony” received rave reviews from critics stating that the band are "the brightest spark to emerge upon the UK scene in a very long time" and are "comparable with mega acts such as Avantasia and Blind Guardian, delivering "symphonic grandiloquence metal with the emphasis on the metal that bands such as Kamelot, Rhapsody Of Fire and Nightwish can’t seem to be able to produce anymore."

2012 - Bringer Of Light

The EP sold well worldwide and after touring it extensively throughout the UK the band decided it was time to make the debut album, “Bringer Of Light”. After many negotiations with record labels worldwide, the band struck a deal with Radtone Music (Japan) and released their debut album in Japan on March 7th, 2012 with the rest of the world to follow. “Bringer Of Light” was once again produced by Scott Atkins, while Jan Yrlund is responsible for the artwork. "Bringer Of Light" was also greeted with rave reviews, downloads and pre-orders topping the Amazon Japan charts and over 100,000 views on the YouTube video Pride (The Warrior's Way).

2013 - Ascending

The band then signed a multi album deal with Massacre Records (Germany) releasing Bringer Of Light worldwide on February 20th 2013. Bringer Of Light gained worldwide acclaim and topped Amazon charts worldwide even breaking into the top 100 download for all music in Germany. The success and reception of Bringer Of Light propelled the band to play outside of the UK for the very first time at the prestigious ProgPower USA festival September 6th. Then in November and December, the band embarked on it's first ever European tour entitled "Europe descends into darkness". The tour was run by Intromental Management/booking who had signed the band before the release of Bringer Of Light.

With 2013 being the bands most successful year so far they decided it was time to brave the follow up album.

2014 - The Valiant Fire

Writing for the album took place between 2012 - 2014 with Will Graney deciding that after Bringer Of Light the band would try to find it's own unique sound. Attempting to create the perfect balance between Guitar riffing and huge Orchestration without either suffering. Simplifying certain elements while enhancing others creating a bigger, more epic and catchier sound. Scott Atkins was again enlisted due to the great working relationship developed on the first two albums and The Valiant Fire was recorded between February - October 2014.

The band wanted the imagery of The Valiant Fire to be just as epic an original. So they set out to find a unique artist and style. Deciding on the art style of hand drawn Chinese Ink the band stumbled upon artist JungShan for Taiwan. The whole album would be hand drawn in Chinese Ink and every song on the album features it's own piece of art that helps tell the story of that song and the trending concept/theme throughout the album.

The Valiant Fire is due out worldwide on 27/03.2015

2020 - Fiber Of Our Being

In 2020 the band returns with their highly anticipated new album "Fiber Of Our Being" which was mixed and mastered by Scott Atkins at Grindstone Studios (Cradle Of filth, Vader, Amon Amarth). The album is the first to feature vocal powerhouse Iggy Rod (Azeroth) and bassist Nic Southwood who joined after the release of the album "The Valiant Fire". Alongside the release will be the bands first ever music video, directed by Sitcom Soldiers (The Darkness, Feeder). 2020 promises to be their biggest year yet.

"With a nifty brand of gothy symphonic metal, I sense that greatness awaits" Bruce Dickinson
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damnation+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.