Damnesia was originally conceived in early 2004 by Miasma, Tandi, and Andrew. Due to illness, Andrew had to move, leaving us with an emptiness in our soul. 

Then in the summer of 2005, in the outskirts of Athens, Georgia. The idea was brought back to life when Miasma approached Vhyle in hopes of looking for a drummer for this outfit. After a few jam sessions, the three quickly discovered a strong chemistry in their musical outlets. The band was, and still is approached with very open minds and new, strange ideas. The listener can experience a very unique approach to metal, crust, ambience, jazz, atmosphere, and anything in between. It is to be ingested with open ears and open minds.

Over the course of the next two or so years, despite numerous line-up changes, Damnesia has played several dozens of live shows, and had a solid set of music written under their belt. The band has played all over Athens, Atlanta and surrounding areas, providing something slightly different than the majority was offering, no matter the genre. In early 2008, Damnesia recorded their first full-length album, and was subsequently given away, free of charge, on their following east coast tour. Damnesia played venues from South Carolina and all the way up to New York City on their tour. The band got much positive reception among these places.

After the tour in mid-2008, each member of the band were dealing with personal issues, which resulted in Vhyle quitting the band to follow other musical ventures. The numerous personal issues that consumed the rest of 2008 and almost all of 2009 finally subsided, and the band reassembled in November of 2009. 

Now, after alot of hard work and time with booking shows, writing new material, and planning a tour, Damnesia is once again broken up....maybe one day we'll get it right!!! 

In the mean-time, we WILL NOT be cancelling any pre-booked shows....we will be filling in Damnesia's slots with other bands that we play in...........

if anyone knows of a good drummer, please hit us up, we want to be working on getting things back together and changing our sound to original crust.......until then........cheers! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damnesia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.