Damned Nation started out in 1993 with guitarist Robert Warnqvist, bassist Magnus Jönsson and drummer Leif Erixon looking for a vocalist for their band; Easy Street.
They found one in Thomas Thorsén, with whom they started to work on the songs for their debut album, to be released in 1995. Before this started however, they changed their name to Damned Nation.

The debutalbum "Just What the Doctor Ordered" was released worldwide in June 1995, and recieved critical acclaim worldwide. A year later, in 1996, the band had been doing alot of gigs in clubs around Sweden, and had started to write material for their next alnum. Due to unknown reasons however, their label ( UFO-Records ) delayed this. They were then promised that it would be recorded after a 10 week promotion tour in 1997 through Thailand. Once again however, this was delayed.

At this point, drummer Leif Erixon was replaced by ''Dead End Street'' drummer Roger Jern, and as another year went by, they decided to break up with UFO-Records.They found a new label in Z-Records, and later that year a pianist entered the band, Anders Andersson. The 5 of them then set out to record their next album ''Road of Desire'', which was released in the early months of 1999.

Shortly after the release, Anders left the band due to other commitments. They continued to write material for the next album, and found a new pianist in local Anders Lindén ( Bloomindays, Wood ).

In January 2000 the recording of  Grand Design started, all keys was done by Anders Lindén who was supposed to join the band but just after the album was finished he had to step back due to personal reasons.




Current Line Up;  Matti Alfonzetti-Vocals
                                Magnus Jönsson-Bass 
                                Robert Warnqvist-Guitars
                                Roger Jern-Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damned+Nation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.