Damned Spirits' Dance is an avant-garde metal band from Budapest, Hungary since 2002.

Discography:
2004 Hide from Daylight demo
2009 The Growing Spirit EP (recorded in 2005)
2009 Weird Constellations LP (recorded in 2008)

Current members:
Sinox - vocals
Vyrn - guitars
Scl - bass guitar
Deimonos - drums
Mr. Macbook Pro - keys


Biography:
Damned Spirits’ Dance came to life at the beginning of 2002, but it was not until 2004 when they recorded their first material: Hide from Daylight demo. It was loosely based on Scandinavian black-death-metal, and the seven tracks – X, Fuck Me Jesus, Satan’s Back, Black Waltzer, Eclectica, All Gone, and Forms – were recorded in a basement within a week, under cheap and simple circumstances. The four permanent members were already together from the start: Sinox – lead vocals / Corun – guitars, vocals / Vyrn – guitars / Sacrun – keyboards. Hellhaller – who played the drums live – since has drifted away to a more extreme style, but Koege – bass – is still in touch with Corun, running the grunge-punk-metal band, dEScADOS.

The sound of DSD was changing soon and a year later – in the summer of 2005 – The Growing Spirit EP was made. The band took this new material to a professional studio and had the chance to work with great sound engineers like Viktor ’Max’ Scheer (Forest Silence, Anima Sound System, Sear Bliss etc.) and Barna Hidasi (Without Face). The crew had to part with their current drummer, Bagira, who couldn’t manage to go through with the recordings, so the three songs – Disorganic Orgasm, Damned, and The Growing Spirit – were played by Bence Kőhegyi, who was a long time member of the well-known Hungarian heavy-metal band, Tűzmadár. Bass lines were done by Father Mary who, afterwards, left DSD, and is inactive ever since. This mini CD received pleasant critics in Hungary and got the band their first international contract at the Dutch Vic Records .

Constant problems with bass players and drummers lengthened the arrival of the first full-length album which was finally recorded in the end of 2007 and mixed in 2008. Once again, working with Viktor Scheer, DSD managed to find the basics of its eclectic sound, and hardships with the rhythm section seemed to have settled by the arrival of Sigan on drums who since has left Sin of Kain, but continues to play with his pagan-black-metal band, Bornholm. Abyss – who has also been a member of Sin of Kain – had to go even before starting the work on the LP, so the bass lines were mostly played by Viktor Scheer who was also the producer of the record. The Weird Constellations LP – tracks: Visioner, Cold Winds, Devil’s on His Way, TSS, Black Savage, Weird Constellations, The Angel and the Dark River, Raven, So much to say... so I rather Tell None, Fake and Guess I’m Dying – brought the attention of the Italian Code666 during the first promotional round and the band signed there in February, 2009.

After years of delay, The Growing Spirit mini cd has seen the light of day at 2nd March, released by Vic Records, and the Weird Constellations LP came out on 20th April, thanks to Code666. The question of the bass player has also finally been settled, so DSD is ready for showing itself to a larger audience throughout Europe. Also demo recordings are due this summer, so the next material – entitled: Where is home? can be finished in the summer of 2010 which can be expected to bear a more melodic, but experimental sound. Some of the new songs will probably be heard on future concerts already.

Past members:
Hellhaller - drums (Hide from Daylight)
Bagira - drums
Bence Kőhegyi - drums (The Growing Spirit)
Samy - drums
Sigan - drums (Weird Constellations)
Köge - bass (Hide from Daylight)
Father Mary - bass (The Growing Spirit)
Abyss - bass

http://www.damnedspirits.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Damned+Spirits%27+Dance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.