Dan Croll (born Daniel Francis Croll, 18 July 1990) is a British singer-songwriter born in Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, England. He moved to Liverpool when he was 18 to attend the Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts (LIPA). While at LIPA, he won the national Songwriter of the Year award from the Musicians Benevolent Fund and was one of eight students picked to have a one-to-one with LIPA founder Sir Paul McCartney. He is currently signed to Turn First Records.

Croll’s first release was as part of the Communion Records' compilation 'New Faces', released on April 23, 2012. Communion have supported Croll both with this release and promoting many of his early live shows.

Croll signed to Turn First Records at the start of 2012. His debut single, "From Nowhere", was released worldwide on September 24, 2012 via Turn First / Racquet Records (Croll’s own imprint) as a digital download and limited 7”. "From Nowhere" spent 3 days at the top of the Hype Machine popular charts, was playlisted in the UK on BBC 6 Music, XFM and Amazing Radio, and received spot plays on BBC Radio 1. Croll was named a Guardian New Band of the Day in November 2012 and described as “Paul Simon jamming with Prince. Very nice”.

Croll released his second single "Compliment Your Soul" in March 2013. This was followed up by the release of "In/Out" in July 2013.

On October 13, 2013, Croll released the song "Home" on his own VEVO channel on YouTube.

On October 29, 2013, during an on-air Virgin Radio interview, Croll confirmed he has finished recording his full length debut album. The LP is expected to be released early next year. Croll told Variance Magazine in October that he is aiming for a "mid-February" release in 2014.

His song "Compliment Your Soul" has also recently made it onto the soundtrack for FIFA 14. As well as FIFA, a remix of From Nowhere, titled From Nowhere (Baardsen Remix), was featured on the soundtrack of Grand Theft Auto V. The song was featured on one of the game's radio stations, Radio Mirror Park.

In November 2013, he announced during a Concert in Camden Town London, that his first album Sweet Disarray, would be released on March 10, 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dan+Croll">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.