The Dan Cray Trio is unique in that it relies on a collaborative effort rather than the singular vision that is more typically found in a piano trio.  This in turn has allowed the group to rise above the pick-up band mentality that has come to dominate the jazz landscape.  Because each musician is equally invested in the development of the music, the Trio is able to match the intensity and clarity of purpose that define the best jazz artists.  Their innovative arrangements and group dynamic have led Cadence Magazine to rate them "as interesting, if not more, than the celebrated Bad Plus." The Trio's music has been featured on the hit television show "Gossip Girl," Michael Keaton's new movie "The Merry Gentleman," and the radio program Eight Forty-Eight with host Steve Edwards on Chicago's NPR station WBEZ.  They've performed at the Chicago Jazz Festival and at venues around the country to critical success, and can be seen regularly around Chicago with the city's top vocalists and instrumentalists.  The Trio has also been able to transfer this focus into tangible success, as their last 2 CDs ("No One" and "Save Us") spent over 10 weeks on the National and College Jazz Charts, while Chicago's NPR station WBEZ named each among the year's best in 2003 and 2005 respectively. 

Dan Cray 

Pianist Dan Cray, a finalist at the 2003 Montreux Jazz Festival Solo Piano Competition and the 2004 American Pianists Association Cole Porter Fellowship Competition, is one of the most dynamic young independent jazz artists working today.  Jazz Radio Berlin has hailed him as a "key figure when it comes to escorting jazz into the new millennium," while the Indianapolis Star enthused that his playing had "both the depth and the playfulness characteristic of jazz piano at its best."  Dan has performed with a number of established jazz musicians and ensembles, including Ira Sullivan, Eddie Johnson, Orbert Davis, Eric Schneider, George Fludas,  Kimberly Gordon, Hinda Hoffman, Kurt Elling, Ari Brown and the Chicago Jazz Orchestra.  While in Chicago, Dan has performed at galas for U.S. Senator Barack Obama, Mayor Richard Daley, and Governor Jim Edgar, and he plays regularly at the city's premier jazz clubs and special events. 

Dan graduated from Northwestern University, where he studied with Donald Isaak and Michael Kocour.  He has released three albums with his trio--Who Cares (2001), No One (Blujazz 2003), and Save Us (Blujazz 2005),  and can also be heard on releases by trumpeter David Young, vocalists Marc Courtney Johnson and Erin McDougald, and saxophonist John Goldman. 

Clark Sommers

Based in Chicago, Clark is a highly in demand bassist who has toured and performed extensively throughout the world. He has performed with Cedar Walton, Kevin Mahogany, Kurt Elling, Ira Sullivan, Frank Wess, Charles McPherson, Von Freeman, Lin Haliday, Maurice Brown, Bobby Broom, Jeff Parker, Ron Perrillo, Jodie Christian, Michael Weiss, George Fludas, Dana Hall, Kimberly Gordon, Ted Sirota's Rebel Souls, and The Chicago Jazz Orchestra.  For two years, Clark performed and toured with Sony Recording Artists “The Mighty Blue Kings,” an internationally recognized rhythm and blues band. Clark was the bassist on their critically acclaimed album “Live from Chicago,” and received significant local and national media exposure.  During his stint with MBK, he also performed at international jazz festivals in the US, Ireland, France and Canada, sharing bills with Tony Bennett, Diana Krall, B.B. King, Dr. John, The Staples Singers, Koko Taylor and Buddy Guy.  Clark's touring experience also extends to Asia.  In Singapore, Hong Kong, and Korea he performed with the Eden Atwood Quartet.  

Clark completed his undergraduate degree in Jazz Studies at California Institute of the Arts, where he studied with bass masters Charlie Haden and Darek Oles.  While living in Los Angeles, Clark performed with Leo Smith, Vinny Golia, the Charlie Haden Liberation Orchestra, Joe La Barbara Sextet, Los Angeles Jazz Quartet, Kris Tiner, Anthony Enns, Jason Mears, and Larry Koonse.

Greg Wyser-Pratte

Drummer Greg Wyser-Pratte has enjoyed a wide variety of musical experiences despite his relatively late start with percussion instruments.  Coming from a musical family, Greg was encouraged to explore his interest in the creative arts.  He started on piano and played trumpet for nine years before discovering his love for jazz drumming at age 18.  Greg enrolled at Northwestern University, where he received a well-rounded musical education and had the opportunity to perform with jazz masters including Ron Blake, Ray Brown, Max Roach, Rufus Reid, and Danilo Perez.  He graduated in 1998 with a Bachelor of Music in Jazz Studies.  

Since then, Greg has worked as a freelance drummer with an ever-expanding list of jazz greats at the area’s major clubs.  He has shared the stage with luminaries Ira Sullivan, John Campbell, Jodie Christian, Ron Perrillo, Judy Roberts, Bobby Broom, Kimberly Gordon, Hinda Hoffman and The Chicago Jazz Orchestra to name just a few.  In addition to his freelance work, Greg can claim membership in several successful groups including the Dan Cray Trio, the Jerry Devivo Band, and the Nia Quintet, Greg has made many recordings with these and other groups.  Greg’s drumming skills have also taken him out of native Chicago on occasion. He toured the United States with the swing band Three Cent Stomp.  He has also toured England, Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands, and Spain with pop-country band Utah Carol.  While back at home, Greg also maintains an active teaching schedule so that he may pass on these great experiences to others. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dan+Cray+Trio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.