Dananananaykroyd were an indie rock band which formed in 2006 in Glasgow, Scotland. The band's final line-up consisted of Calum Gunn (vocals, drums), Duncan Robertson (guitar), David Roy (guitar), Ryan McGinness (bass), John Baillie Jr. (vocals) and Paul Carlin (drums). Original singer Giles Bailey left after the release of the bands first two singles and was replaced by Gunn. Drummer James Hamilton left the band after the release of their debut EP "Sissy Hits". Bassist Laura Hyde left the band in June 2009.

In 2006 Dananananaykroyd released two limited edition 7" singles, "Totally Bone" and "Some Dresses" on Moshi Moshi and Jealous Records respectively. A Japan-only CD EP, collecting both singles, was later released on Kanazawa's Klee/Rallye records. Singer Giles Bailey left the group and was replaced by drummer Calum Gunn while John Baillie Jnr joined the band on drums and additional lead vocals.
Dananananaykroyd released their first EP, Sissy Hits, on London-based Holy Roar Records in June 2008. Shortly after, they introduced ex-Russia drummer Paul Carlin as their new (other) drummer after James Hamilton of Errors left the band. Dananananaykroyd signed to Best Before Records shortly thereafter, and recorded their debut full-length album Hey Everyone! in the US with producer Machine.
The band have toured the UK extensively with bands such as Foals and in 2009 completed a European tour with the Kaiser Chiefs. They played at the Reading and Leeds Festivals in August 2009.
In June 2009, the band announced that bass player Laura Hyde had left, and would be replaced on tour by Ryan McGinness.

In August 2009 during a concert in Sydney, Australia, near the beginning of the band's set, singer John Baillie Junior jumped off stage and broke his arm causing the band to cancel the remainder of their Australian tour, as well as appearances at Pukkelpop and Belladrum festivals. Baillie snapped both bones that run from the wrist to the elbow, shearing a large chunk of bone from his elbow. Emergency surgery was needed in Sydney to fix the injury, leaving four metal screws in his arm permanently. His return show (with Calum and John sharing vocals duties) was Reading Festival only 3 weeks later which the band opened, playing to 10,000+ people on the Radio 1/NME stage. Baillie had said that one day he wanted to return to the venue in Sydney and continue the show from the floor where he fell and from the point in the set where it was cut short. The band were able to do this in July 2011, in which they performed at the Annandale Hotel exactly two years to the date after the accident.

The band announced that they were disbanding on 29th September 2011. Some of the former members of Dananananaykroyd  went on to form Alarm Bells. Gunn joined Her Parents, while Baillie took on production duties in pop project Bossy Love. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dananananaykroyd">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.