Dana can be  different artists: 
Dana Rosemary Scallon; 
Dana (다나) (South Korean singer); 
Dana van Dreven aka DJ Lady Dana; 
Dana L. Stovall, 
Dana the Lebanese singer (change your tags to Dana Halabi please); 
Dana Nalbaru, former singer in Romanian band Hi-q; 
Dana the Spanish singer; 
dANA, an electronic pysche infinity group from brooklyn, a Finnish DJ and 'core musician. 
Dana Al Fardan - a Qatari composer and songwriter and the founder / CEO of DNA Records, the first record label to be established in Qatar
DANA | 다나 (DANA | 다나) , South Korean singer and former member of K-pop group Hot Issue

--==--

1. Dana Rosemary Scallon, is a successful former singer turned Irish politician.

About Dana Rosemary Scallon: Dana Rosemary Scallon, formerly Dana (born August 30, 1951), is a successful former singer turned Irish politician. 

Scallon was born Rosemary Brown in Derry, Northern Ireland. In 1970 as a teenager she represented Ireland in the Eurovision Song Contest, singing "All Kinds of Everything" (written by Derry Lindsay and Jackie Smith), and brought home the country's first victory in the contest. She had some minor hits in the British and Irish music charts subsequently. Always religious, she became more famous for singing religious songs, such as "Totus Tuus", commemorating the visit of Pope John Paul II to Ireland in 1979.

In the 1980s, she moved with her husband, Damien Scallon, and family to the United States, where they were involved with a Christian broadcasting network. She returned to Ireland in 1997 to become a candidate for the office of President of Ireland where, though an independent candidate with no party political organisation behind her, she came in a credible third, ahead of the candidate of the mainstream Labour Party. In 1999, again as an independent, she contested and won a seat in the European Parliament representing the Connacht-Ulster European elections constituency.

She has declined to associate with any political party. She campaigns on "family values," most notably in her opposition to abortion. Her decision in 2001 to oppose a government proposed amendment to the Irish constitution to place some restrictions on abortion, which put her at variance with many pro-life organizations, the mainstream political parties and the Roman Catholic Bishops in Ireland, on the basis that in her eyes the anti-abortion amendment would introduce certain loopholes, lost her much of her original support. The defeat of that amendment was blamed on ultra-conservative elements, who were accused by other anti-abortion campaigners of destroying the likely last chance to impose stricter abortion restrictions in Ireland.

In 2002, Scallon contested a seat in Galway West in the Irish general election, again as an independent. In what was seen as a backlash against her stance in the previous abortion referendum, she lost disastrously, scoring just 3.5% of the vote in her constituency.

Scallon lost her seat in the elections to the European Parliament in June 2004, although her share of the vote on that occasion (13.5%) was somewhat higher than opinion polls had indicated in advance of the election.

In 2004, Scallon again set her sights on the office of President of Ireland, but incumbent Mary McAleese was elected uncontested when Scallon failed to secure a nomination.


2. Dana (다나) (South Korean singer): Dana was born as Hong Sung Mi (홍성미) on July 17, 1986. Initially a solo singer on Shining Entertainment label, she released her first album at age 15 in 2001. Though she was promoted by SM Entertainment, she did not officially became an SMTOWN artist until 2003. After one more solo album in at age 17 (plus a few tracks on SMTOWN winter and summer albums), Dana was placed in a four female dance/A Capella group 천상지희/天上智喜. The group has changed their name in Korea and are now known as 천상지희 the Grace.

Albums
[2001.09.01] First Album
[2003.10.01] 남겨둔 이야기 (Maybe) 

Other
[2002.12.07] 2002 Winter Vacation in SMTOWN.com
[2003.06.02] 2003 Summer Vacation in SMTOWN.com
[2003.12.05] 2003 Winter Vacation in SMTOWN.com
[2004.07.02] 2004 Summer Vacation in SMTOWN.com
장난스런 키스 (Playful Kiss) - Inuyasha 5th Opening/Ending Song (Korean)

3. Dana van Dreven (born July 8, 1974 in Amsterdam, Netherlands) aka DJ Lady Dana, is one of the world's leading Hardstyle DJs.

Dana started playing in 1993. It was never her intention to become a DJ, but she did, and is now the most popular female DJ in the Dutch dance scene.

DJ Lady Dana is without a doubt headliner of the hard dance scene. She is often referred to as the "Queen of Harddance". She has achieved the highest ranking spot as a harddance DJ in the English Mixmag top 100, which she first entered at spot fifty-five.

Albums (Solo)

    * 2002 ID&T Presents Dana [Released: 2002]
    * 2004 Dj Dana [Released: 2004]
    * 2006 Just Dana [Released: 2006]

4. Dana Halabi, is a young Lebanese singer/performer, please change your tags to Dana Halabi to scrobble for her. Often characterized by critics as being the epitome of "everything that is wrong with Arabic pop" and "the video clip culture", Dana's silly lyrics (which she often writes herself), skimpy outfits, and catchy songs overshadow her lacking vocal talent. Her signature silliness, which has quickly become part of Arab pop culture, has been used several times by comedians and even for ads. Melody TV, the company that both launched her and produced her debut album, Inta Min, used her in one of a series of comedic commercials. Dana also sang the jingle for and acted in the commercial for the Sympathique fragrance.

5. Dana L. Stovall has done vocals on various songs related to Hula, K Fingers and Cajmere. Under the name Dana she has had 2 releases on Clubhouse records.

6. Dana Nalbaru former singer in Romanian band Hi-q. She now has her own solo career as Dana.  

7. Dana, Spanish singer, (Dana Woods) made an unique LP in 1991, "Diecisiete" ("Seventeen") produced by Alejo Stivel and with collaborations by Nacho Cano from Mecano.

8. dANA, an electronic pysche infinity group from Brooklyn.

9. Dana Al Fardan is a Qatari composer and songwriter and the founder and CEO of DNA Records, the first record label to be established in Qatar.

10. DANA | 다나 (DANA | 다나), birthname Jang Da-na (장다나 in Korean), is a singer-songwriter and a former member of K-pop girl group Hot Issue, that was active under S2 Entertainment since April 28, 2021, until April 22, 2022. They debuted with the mini album Issue Maker, which included Hide In The Dark, a song written, composed and arranged by her. After the group disbanded, Dana began uploading her solo songs.

11. DANA (Ohio) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dana">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.