Biography

Dangerous Aliens was formed in 2006 by Theo ten Brummelaar and comprises mostly of musicians with PhDs who play mostly songs by dead people whose last names mostly start with 'Z', most notably Frank Zappa. The songs played are mostly cover songs, but they also have several songs of their own. Since 2006 DA has had numerous changes in line up, particularly in the keyboard player department. We've also had numerous people playing Bass, but still like to consider Ivo as our main man, despite the fact that he now lives in the Netherlands.

Balkan Surf Party was written by Tom Schneider, who does not hold a PhD, is not dead, has no 'Z' in his name, but does surf. The song was meant to introduce the band to the surf music genre so aptly defined by the legendary Dick Dale, yet so curiously influenced by Balkan folk music. It's also fun to play.

Members of Dangerous Aliens

Kunio Sayanagi is a post-doc in Planetary Sciences at Caltech/UCLA, and also part of the volunteer actor/crew. He plays Trumpet, Keyboards, Drums and Vocals, but not at the same time.

Kaspar von Braun works at the NASA Exoplanet Science Institute at Caltech and plays Drums, Guitar, Mandolin and Vocals, also not at the same time.

Theo ten Brummelaar is the failed dictator of the band and works up at the Observatory on Mount Wilson, but also has an office at IPAC where he drinks too much coffee with Kaspar and complains about the other band members.

Ivo Labbe plays Bass and used to work at Carnegie Observatories, where he liked to make fun of people at Caltech. He's now in Leiden where he likes to make fun of Americans in general.

Tom Schneider plays Guitar and Saxophone and is not associated with Caltech directly but does the occasional software contract for some of them.

Amy Tumminello plays Keyboards and works at JPL against her better judgment.

Alexis Schneider and Sallie Cruise are the dynamic lead singers and have real lives outside of Caltech. However, they both married nerds so have learned to put up with the rest of the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dangerous+Aliens">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.