In a genre known for its randomness and chaotic structure, Daniel Menche has established himself as a musician with an uncharacteristic sense of focus and determination. Rather than creating "noise," he strives for order and cohesiveness. Aural intensity is not a representation of confusion or the chaotic, but a concerted effort to provoke and stimulate the listener’s imagination by generating intensely powerful sounds and music.

His presentation of sonic structures is similar to the way a writer might depict a story: from the sound source an allegory emerges; through the imaginative process, confusion is tempered into symbol and structure. In creating the most dramatic energy possible with sound -- whether it’s quiet or loud, or whether one views it as music or noise -- the aim will always be drama.

Daniel Menche's work originates from the idea that there is no restriction to potential sound sources, especially in terms of a sound’s potential sonic energy. Self-made recorded sound sources, instruments, and percussion can all be equally harnessed in creating a living and emotional feeling within Daniel Menche's contemporary work. Hunting and Gathering -- Capture and Amplify with sound. Sounds from anywhere and everywhere. Gushing waterfalls, storms, throat, skin, heart, massive drums, kids choirs, acoustic instruments, pianos and organs, junk electronics, high tech electronics, garbage, dirt, gold and diamonds . . . There are no rules. Any and all sounds are possible conduits to music. There are absolutely no barriers or biases in what can be used.

Subtle and patient compositions rely on long, dense layers of droning sounds, while abrasive pieces rely on sounds amplified and processed to extreme levels, pushing the full spectrum of frequencies to the threshold. Intense, percussive sound works resonate a primal chaos while gracefully reaching towards something beyond “noise.” Through this intensity, Menche bridges the gap between sound and listener, a one-on-one, personal impact with pure sound. Intent is the crucial ingredient in creating intensity.

The musical intent is to destroy all rationalized thought processes to make room for the emotional and sensual impulses to take over. This is a direct goal and intent inherent in the work. The greater the intent, the greater the intensity, and intensity is based upon the blood rising in speed and heat through our bodies.

Daniel Menche's craft straddles many hard-to-define boundaries and genres: it is an effort to provoke confusion in order to enhance the mystery of it, an effort to establish each release as its own sonic identity. Indeed, Menche has amassed an ever-growing body of work released through some of the most discerning and respected independent labels in the world.

Today, Menche continues his extensive live performances throughout North America, Europe, and Asia. Characterized as both extremely loud and patiently subtle, as both sonically intense and emotionally powerful, Daniel Menche's performances are works which realize their own sonic presence, entities that give form to an emotional rawness with highly textural and dominating sounds.

This is dedicated music that expresses the undisciplined purity of emotion and intensity. If you want blood...you got it!

Portland, OR, active since 1989.

http://danielmenche.blogspot.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daniel+Menche">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.