Daniel Pemberton (born 3 November 1977) is an English composer.

In 1994, at the age of 16, Pemberton recorded his debut album, Bedroom, on a multitrack cassette recorder, which caught the attention of ambient musician Pete Namlook and was released on the latter’s Fax label as part of its sub-label series.

In 2013, Pemberton completed his breakthrough score of director Ridley Scott's film The Counselor. The score was recorded at Abbey Road Studios in London. He has also scored films for other prominent directors including Danny Boyle's Steve Jobs and Guy Ritchie's The Man From U.N.C.L.E..

In 2014, Pemberton was named the "Discovery of the Year" at the World Soundtrack Awards. and nominated as "Film Composer of the Year" in 2016.

In 2021, he was named "Film Composer Of The Year" by the International Film Music Critics Association.

Pemberton has been nominated four times for a Golden Globe award. In 2016 his score for Steve Jobs was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score. In 2017 he was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song for the song Gold from the film of the same name which he co-wrote with Iggy Pop, Danger Mouse and the director Stephen Gaghan. In 2019 his score for Motherless Brooklyn was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score. In 2021 he was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song for the song Hear My Voice from the film The Trial of the Chicago 7 which was performed and co-written with Celeste.

Pemberton's works include the Oscar-winning animated film Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, directed by Bob Persichetti, Peter Ramsey and Rodney Rothman; The Palme d'Or nominated French film Mal De Pierres starring Marion Cotillard and directed by Nicole Garcia; Aaron Sorkin's directorial debut Molly's Game, starring Jessica Chastain and Idris Elba; The Weinstein Company film Gold starring Matthew McConaughey and directed by Stephen Gaghan; Mark Felt, a political thriller based on the Watergate affair starring Liam Neeson, directed by Peter Landesman and produced by Ridley Scott and Tom Hanks, and the latest film from Guy Ritchie, King Arthur: Legend of the Sword.

Earlier work includes The Awakening starring Rebecca Hall and Dominic West and directed by Nick Murphy; Cuban Fury a British comedy from the producers of Shaun of the Dead starring Nick Frost; the live action short Ghost Recon: Alpha directed by Oscar-winners Francois Alaux and Herve De Crecy and edited by Oscar-winner Pietro Scalia; Blood starring Paul Bettany and Mark Strong, directed by Nick Murphy and produced by Sam Mendes; Film4 feature In Fear starring Alice Englert, directed by Jeremy Lovering and Complicit starring David Oyelowo and directed by Niall MacCormick. Pemberton also scored director Gareth Edwards' breakthrough sci-fi short film Factory Farmed.

He has also composed title tunes and incidental music for several award-winning television series including The Game, Prey, Ambassadors, Peep Show, Desperate Romantics, Space Dive, Occupation, Prisoners' Wives, Black Mirror, My Mad Fat Diary, Suburban Shootout, Hell's Kitchen, Great British Menu, Hiroshima, Bad Lads' Army, That'll Teach 'Em, George Orwell: A Life in Pictures, The Yellow House, Monster Moves, Dirk Gently, Napoleon and the first series of the 2010 revival of Upstairs Downstairs. He also has composed music for video games such as LittleBigPlanet, Kinect Adventures, LittleBigPlanet 2, The Movies and Trackmania Turbo. Using the alias The Daniel Pemberton TV Orchestra, some of his television themes were released on the album TVPOPMUZIK in 2007, while his video game work—primarily that from LittleBigPlanet—was released on the album LittleBIGMusic.

For the 2020 Paralympics documentary film Rising Phoenix as well as working with disabled musicians on the score Pemberton also collaborated with disabled rappers Toni Hickman, Georgetragic and Keith Jones to create the end credits song "Rising Phoenix". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daniel+Pemberton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.