Daniil Trifonov (born March 5, 1991 in Nizhny Novgorod) is a Russian concert pianist.

Biography

Trifonov is a top prize winner of several major international piano competitions, including the International Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw, and the International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow. At the age of 20, he is quickly emerging as one of the most outstanding pianists of his generation, having the potential to build a major international performing career.

At 17, he won Fifth Prize at the 4th International Scriabin Competition in Moscow, and the first prize at the 3rd International Piano Competition of San Marino,where he also received the Special Prize for the best performance of Chick Corea’s composition.

In 2010, Trifonov became a medalist of the distinguished XVI International Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw, where he won Third Prize and the Special Prize of Polish Radio for the best mazurkas performance.

In 2011, Trifonov won the First Prize at the 13th Arthur Rubinstein International Piano Master Competition in Tel-Aviv, winning also the Pnina Salzman Prize for the Best Performer of a Chopin piece, the Prize for the Best Performer of Chamber Music and the Audience Favorite Prize.

A few weeks after winning the Rubinstein Competition, Trifonov was awarded the coveted First Prize, Gold Medal, and Grand Prix at the renowned XIV International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow. Trifonov also won the Audience Award and the Award for the Best Performance of a Chamber Concerto. 

He recently completed studies at the Gnessin Special School of Music in the class of Tatiana Zelikman, and is currently a student of Sergei Babayan at the Cleveland Institute of Music.

Other scholarships and awards received include the Yuri Rozum International Charity Foundation Scholarship, the Scriabin Scholarship, the “New Names” Scholarship, the “Young Talents of Russia” Foundation Scholarship and the Guzik Foundation Award.

Trifonov has performed around the world, including Austria, Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the USA.

Orchestras with which he has performed include the Mariinsky Theatre Orchestra, Russian National Orchestra, London Symphony Orchestra, Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra, Orchestra Sinfonica di Milano Giuseppe Verdi, Vienna Radio Symphony Orchestra, Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, Israel Camerata Orchestra, Israel Sinfonietta Beersheva, Polish Radio Symphony Orchestra, Sinfonia Varsovia, Poznan Philharmonic Orchestra, Sinfonietta de Lausanne, Republic of San Marino Symphony Orchestra, Moscow Chamber Orchestra, Siberian Symphony Orchestra, Nizhniy Novgorod Philharmonic Orchestra, Yaroslavl Philharmonic Orchestra, and the “Musica Viva” Chamber Orchestra.

Trifonov has also participated in numerous music festivals, including Rheingau Musik Festival (Germany), Crescendo (Russia), Arpeggione (Austria), Musica in Villa (Italy), Dame Myra Hess Series (USA), the Round Top Festival Institute (USA), International Keyboard Institute & Festival (USA), Santo Stefano (Italy), Rimini Meeting (Italy), Brighton Festival (UK), Wiener Festwochen (Vienna Festival, Austria), and “Trio di Trieste” Piano Festival (Italy), International Music Festival “Chopin and his Europe” (Poland), International Chopin Piano Festival in Duszniki Zdroj (Poland).

Trifonov played his Carnegie Hall debut in May 2009, and has also performed at other prestigious concert venues like the Auditorium di Milano (Milan, Italy),Teatro la Fenice (Venice, Italy), Warsaw Philharmonic Hall, Barbican Hall (London, UK), as well as the Rathausplatz in Vienna's Town Hall Square, where he was awarded Third Prize representing Russia in the Eurovision Young Musicians Competition 2010. In addition to developing an important performing career, Daniil Trifonov is also active as a composer of piano, chamber and orchestral music.

His first CD was released on Decca in 2011, featuring a selection of Chopin solo piano works. He has also made a number of television recordings in Russia, Poland, Japan, the USA and Italy.

Martha Argerich about Daniil Trifonov (Financial Times): “Last night I listened to him again on YouTube – he has everything and more. What he does with his hands is technically incredible. It’s also his touch – he has tenderness and also the demonic element. I never heard anything like that.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daniil+Trifonov">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.