Danse Macabre is the name for several bands, including: 
1) Danse Macabre was a screamo band from Trier, Germany. 
2) Danse Macabre was a British new wave  band from Liverpool. 
3) Danse Macabre was a New Zealand post-punk band active in the early 80s. 
4) Danse Macabre was a goth-metal/rock band from Diest, Belgium, now called Satyrian. 
5) Danse Macabre was a Gothic/Deathrock band from Germany. 
6) Danse Macabre was a French Goth band. 
7) Danse Macabre is a A psychedelic trance act; 
8) Danse Macabre was a  Japanese metal/hardcore band. 
9) Danse Macabre is one of the many new beat names of Morton, Sherman, Bellucci crew. 
10) Swedish post-punk/new wave band.

1) A screamo band from Trier, Germany (2001 - 2010)
Discography:
• «die kritik ist keine leidenschaft des kopfes» (EP 7'', 2002)
• «Danse Macabre / Killed by Malaise» (Split 7'', 2003)
• «Synkopenleben, Nein Danke» (LP/CD, 2005)
• «Danse Macabre / Her Breath On Glass» (Split 7'', 2006)
• «Danse Macabre / Am I Dead Yet» (Split 7'', 2007)
• «Einerseits Andererseits» (EP 10'', 2009);

2) A new wave  band from Liverpool/UK. They released a 7" named "Angel" in 1983.
Members:
Peter Carroll (vocals) (also at same time in Visual Aids and Dark Continent)
Paul McNeil (guitar)
Karl Anthony (bass) (later Cair Paravel)
Pete Chegwin (keyboards) (ex Ex Post Facto, Oceanic Explorers, Innervision)
Graham Gallant (drums) (left 1983 to Straight Cuts) replaced by Perry Leach (later Dream Theatre);

3) A New Zealand post-punk band in the early 80s whose members were drawn from a variety of groups in the Auckland music scene. Wes Prince (guitar) and Roddy Carlson (drums) had been key members of early Auckland punks The Sloth Creatures; Nigel Russell (vocals/synth) had been in the pop-punk band The Spelling Mistakes; while bass player Ralph Crump came from West Auckland band Buster Keys. With a sound similar to Joy Division and The Cure, they were signed to Reaction Records, and released the 12-inch EP Between The Lines in December 1981, enjoying six weeks in the charts and peaking at #15. The EP was also released in Britain and Australia. Recording sessions for their 1982 mini-album Last Request were fraught with rising tensions within the group and they split two months before its release. The band did reunite for a one-off Auckland show in July 22nd 2005 to support the release of Between The Lines (the CD reissue of the band’s two vinyl releases);

4) A Gothic Metal/Rock band from Diest, Belgium formed by lead singer Gunther Theys of Ancient Rites;. The same band is now called Satyrian;

5) Gothic/Deathrock band from Germany released one known LP in 1991 "Bad But Not Bad";

6) French Goth band released one 12"(1983) "six tracks of mostly improvised experimental sonorities oscillating between Bauhaus, Public Image Limited and Christian Death.";

7) A psychedelic trance act; 

8) A Japanese metal/hardcore band that released their first album in 1991. At first they where very influenced by the sound and image of horror punk bands like The Misfits and Samhain, during that time they released a self-titled EP on 1988. The sound of the band evolved later into a more heavy metal act and finally on their 1995 album release included elements of death metal.

9) One of the many new beat names of Morton, Sherman, Bellucci crew. (http://www.discogs.com/artist/Danse+Macabre)

10)  Motala, Sweden
Marina Krig (song),
Anders Håkanson (guitar)
Johan Lewholt (base)
Erik Håkansson (drums) 

Danse Macabre existed for a short but intense period of time in the middle of the 80’s. Inspired by the wave of beautiful, melodic but also very dark rock music that came from England at this time Marina Krig, Anders Håkanson, Johan Lewholt and Erik Håkansson started in the beginning of 1985 the band Danse Macabre. And in the late fall of 1986 they played their last concert together with Cortex, Camouflage and Jack of all trades at the Folkets Park in Mjölby. The story ended.

During this 1 1/2year Danse Macabre released two cassette tapes. Even though the cassette tape is a medium that has gained som renaissance and retro reputation, it may seem odd today to make the choice of only releasing the music on cassette tapes. But vinyl recordings were expensive, the process of getting a label interested too long for bands that were anxious to get the music out there. The sales of these cassettes were mostly performed in the classified ads section in the music magazine Schlager.

The first, self-titled, cassette was recorded under primitive conditions with a four channel tape recorder at the rehearsal space in the basement of a school. The second cassette, Pickman’s model, consisted of the 10 tunes you can listen to here. It was from this cassette that Lars Aldman, host of influental radio programme Lilla Bommen, picked the tune Höst. This tune then top rated during a couple of weeks at the Spränglistan, a top list where the listeners voted for their best tunes. Together with a number of fun and good concerts this was probably the highest point in the bands short career. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Danse+Macabre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.