1. Dare is a hard rock band from Oldham, England, UK, fronted by Thin Lizzy keyboard player Darren Wharton. 

2. Dare is a straight edge hardcore band from Orange County. 

--==--

1. -  Dare was formed in 1985, and have released 10 albums to date, including the #48 UK single Blood from Stone.

British AOR band formed in 1985 by frontman Darren Wharton, formerly keyboard player for  [artis]Thin Lizzy. Their debut album in 1988 Out of the Silence is considered a true classic from every AOR fan around the world. In 1991 they released Blood from Stone a much heavier hard rock album which is also classic for its genre although it didn't have a great success. After seven years of silence Dare changed their line up , Darren Wharton decided to start producing Dare's albums in his own studio from this point on. In 1998 Calm Before the Storm was released with a new sound of unique classic rock with balanced electric and acoustic gutitars and a multilayered production . In 2001 their next album Belief was released with a major change in the band's sound into more atmospheric classic rock along with celtic inlfluences . Dare established a really unique and trademark sound along with very emotional lyrics . In 2004 Dare released Beneath the Shining Wate" with a darkier and more sentimental laid back sound than Belief which was followed by a live DVD release Power of Nature: Live in Munich.

One of the most famous former members of Dare is Brian Cox in an Episode of Carpool (available on iTunes and Youtube he told Robert Llewellyn he joined because he lived up the road from Darren and left because they had a fight on tour in Berlin.

The band have had four appearances in the UK Singles Chart. These include The Raindance (#62, 1989), Abandon (#71, 1989), We Don't Need a Reason (#52, 1991) and Real Love (#67, 1991).

The latest Dare album, 'Road To Eden was announced by the band on 10 January 2022, with a release date by Legend Records of 1 April 2022. An initial track from the album (the lead track), Born in the Storm was announced at the same time. Line up for the album remains Darren Wharton (vocals and keyboards), Vinny Burns (guitars), Kevin Whitehead (drums), Nigel Clutterbuck (bass) and Marc Roberts (keyboards). Also on the 10 January a 12-date UK headline tour in October 2022 was announced, this kicking off in Leeds on 6 October, and concluding in Newbury on 29 October. Additional dates were later added, these including an appearance at Cambridge Rock Festival.

2. -  Dare is a straight edge hardcore band from Orange County. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dare">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.