Dark Lunacy is an Italian metal band whose genre shifts between symphonic, progressive, gothic and melodic death metal. In an interview Enomy described it as "Dramatic Death Metal". Their themes are mainly gloomy subjects such as mourning, loss, psychology of warfare etc. 
In 2010 the band had a radical change in the line-up, with only Mike staying from the previous one. 

The lineup is as follows:
Mike Lunacy - Vocals
Daniele Galassi - Lead and Rythm guitar
Jacopo Rossi - Bass
Alessandro Vagnoni - Drums

The band was founded in 1997 by singer Mike Lunacy and guitarist Enomys. It was not until 1999, with the addition of drummer Baijkal and bassist Harpad, that the band became complete and released their first official album, Devoid, the following year. While earlier releases were on Metal Blade, the band is currently associated with the label Self Distribuzione. In 2001 bassist Harpad left and was replaced by Imer. In 2003 the band released their second official album, Forget Me Not. In June 2006 Baijkal and Imer left the band for personal reasons, but not before the release of The Diarist. Mary Ann and Mathias entered the band in August 2006; in the Autumn of 2007, Baijkal and Imer returned and Mathias left the band, and Mary Ann went from playing bass to second guitar. In 2009, Enomys left the band due to personal reasons. Simon joined the band officially soon after at the guitar to replace him.

In 2010 the band had a radical change in the line-up, with Mike staying as the only original member from Dark Lunacy.

With this renewed line-up the band recorded in 2012 a live DVD in Mexico City and in the same year it undertook a successful tour in Russia. After the release of the DVD, the band suffered once again the changing of other musicians. Marchini and Cinquegrana left and the band becomes a quartet again, with the addition of Jacopo Rossi on bass. With this personnel Dark Lunacy gave life to the fifth full-length album titled The Day Of Victory, a record that is linked thematically to the events of the Russian Second World War.

http://www.darklunacy.com - Official website <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Lunacy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.