Dark Messiah, an explosive Greek Black metal band founded by Olethros  (lead guitar) and Menippos (drums), made their debut in 2000 (the same year of their creation) with their demo-CD 'Eosforou Risi' (Lucifer's Command), in which Aenaon is doing the vocals. Reviews were very encouraging for the new band's demo which was inspired by such bands as Impaled, Nazarene, Dark Throne, Rotting Christ and Mayhem.  In the summer of the same year, the band gave their first live concert in their hometown of Kozani with bands Faceless God and Night Threat. Later that year, Shadowsoul (bass) joined the group, bringing his experience and style from his former band, Dark Shadow. In September 2002, Dark Messiah played at Larissa with Black Winter, Faceless God, Dark Shadow, Scorn and Fegura Vest. The concert was attended by more than 350 people. 2003 was brought in by the band's performance in Ptolemaida. Other bands included Facelss God, Dark Shadow and Everflow. Mid-year there was a band shake-up when Aenaon left the band and Shadowsoul took over vocals. New member Askaliphos joined the group as the new bass player. With new songs written and ready to be recording, the band began recording their new demo in the winter of '03. The band decided to change recording studios, this time in Thessaloniki, to improve the quality and sound of their demo. The tone of the second recording was a mixture of black, epic and death sounds. Compared to the first demo, the new songs were deemed more melodic but at the same time carrying a heavier, darker and more extreme theme. 
After the release of the the second demo in February of 2004, the band played in concert with Obduction, Ritual of the Black Sun, Ravencult, Faceless God and VIC Royal in Mid-April at Athens. After this appearance Menippos leaves the band and his position took the drummer of Faceless God Ellin. New tracks are written and Dark Messiah gave another live at Athens in Mid-April of 2005 with Faceless God, Astral Aeon, Project Havoc and Eletrorizon. Though the band starts to write one promo with new tracks 
in style of fast Swesish-Black metal with atmosfairic passages and a few influences of Rotting Christ. 
The drums are recorded at Drumworld Studio and the rest parts at Holocaust Studio. Immediately afterwards the circulation the band signs contract for the production of one EP, that will be releshed from the American company FULL MOON PRODUCTIONS, dues of February. Also it follows one still appearance, in Thessalonica, in the means of December with the band Faceless God and Achidna. At last at the end of 2005, Wolfmusic Production releashe -Immortal Battlefield- in a cd format as our first full-length album.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Messiah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.