DARKPHASE

Darkphase was founded in 1989 and gave their first concert in 1991. Recorded Turkey's one of the first multichannel recorded demo "Mortal Visions" 
In 1991 band's songs were chosen for a compilation album in Germany. They invited the Dutch band Swazafix to Turkey and played in two gigs with them. 
"End of Lunacy", the second demo, was released in December 1991 which soon proved to be the first steps of a huge success.
Thanks to the quality of this demo, the band began appearing in many Turkish and International magazines. 
"End of Lunacy" was sent to USA, Europe, and Far Eastern countries, and the band appeared more than 300 magazines and also many radiostations worldwide, with positive reviews. 
Darkphase appeared in "Metal Hammer" and "Kerrang" the world's well-known heavy metal magazines which exposed the certain criterias of the music market of the period. 
"Wild Rags Records" and "Urban Warfare Productions" from USA and "Ragnarok Dist" From Germany began distributing their "end of lunacy" demo, and reached mass amounts of people. 
The band played infront of 2000 people on 13th March 1993 in "Laneth" concert series. 
After various concerts in cities of Turkey, the band recorded their first studio album in 1994. 
The album "Waning Moon Setting Sun"proved great success, selling more than 17.000 copies and printing 4 editions, the latter being in 2001 as a re*release. 
The tour for the album was very successful and the bands each concert was sold-out. The band played infront of 3.000 people at the METU stadium despite the heavy pouring rain. 
The band continued touring and meeting fans in cities like Adana, Eskisehir, Izmir, Istanbul and Bursa. 
During the tour due to an unfortunate accident, the band lost their bass player Ogeda Cenikan. 
After a period of confusion, the band decided to carry on in the memory of Ogeda and, played a memorial concert for him. 
The band was voted as "one the best three bands in Turkey"by Turkey's leading and best selling music magazine Blue Jean's readers. 
Being one of the Pioneers, they had their responsibilities and gave charity concerts. To name the most important ones; for the orphans and also for Ankara Thalassemia Association Funds. 
On 14th December 1996, as another first in Turkish rock music history, the band went to London England, gave a solo concert as the special guest of "Imperial Cancer Research Fund" By this show, they became the first ever Turkish heavy-metal band to play a solo show in England Continuing to take part in large organisations the band played infront of 4.000 people at "Rockhouse"as a special guest of Harley Davidson Motorcycles.. Turkey Introduction. 
Between 1998 and 2001 due to the military obligations of the band members, the activities came to a halt but in 2003 they released a promo cd to celebrate their re-union. 
On 16 March 2003, the band appeared as the honorary guest and headliner of the 6th International Rockstation Festival, in which Tankard (germany) Mourning Caress (germany) and Erkin Koray (Turkey) also appeared. Soon after the band shared stage with well-known Turkish names Vega, Pentagram, Nil Karaibrahimgil at the Metu Spring Festival and played again infront of thousands of fans at the stadium, again gathered for Darkphase. 
On 3rd May 2006 the band played with world famous MSG, and once again proved success on stage. During the show, their fans supported them, and they gave the signals for the second studio album. 
after 13 years from their legendary album, darkphase released a new official album, "darphane" in december 2007 which may be considered as a travel through darkphase history from 1995 to 2005... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darkphase">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.