Darkwell is the name of a gothic metal band from Innsbruck, Austria. Formed in 1999 by bassist Roland Wurzer and guitarist Roman Wienicke.
Solitude drowns our souls – hearts are freezing, longing für warmth – despair covers everything – suddenly: a small red glooming flame breaks through the darkness, awakes us with a kiss and relieves our pain – guides us into the sweet embracement of the night. Darkwell is the celebration of the dark sensualism”

Darkwell was born early 1999, with the aim and motivation to create alive and profound Gothic Metal. All the bandmembers are experienced musicians. They know well how to inspire liveliness in their music, resulting in strong compositions and mature arrangements.

1999 DARKWELL signed a record-deal with the austrian label Napalm Records, and in march 2000 they started the recordings of their debut “Suspiria”. They coupled fragile and though powerful female vocals with pounding guitars and pushing baselines. Shortly after entering the studio the five went on tour with labal-colleagues Tristania and The Sins of Thy Beloved. This tour was crowned with success: They got booked for the Wave Gothic Meeting even before releasing their first record, followed by many shows and a tour with Graveworm and Vintersorg.

In the year of 2002 DARKWELL composed the MCD „Conflict of Interest“. Once again they united the already characteristic dark sound with the angelic and feminine voice of Alexandra Pittracher. The CD contains an expressive cover-version of Tanita Tikaram endless sad “Twist in my Sobriety” and sold far beyond all expected sales-figures. Based on this promising facts a co-headliner-tour with Ashes you leave, a headliner-tour across the Netherlands resulted, as well as Festivals gigs at Eurorock, Skeleton Bash and 666-Festival 

2003 DARKWELL separated from their former singer Alexandra, as personal and musical difficulties occurred, and started to search for a new dark front-beauty. Soon they discovered Stephanie M., emphasising even more Darkwell’s independent musical path. Her expressive and powerful voice will from now on enlighten Darkwell's past, present and future. 

After few rehearsals Stephanie passed her glorious live-debut with the band at the Wave Gothic Meeting. She enchanted the audience with her energetic live-show and bewitched everybody at the Summer Breeze 2003. Thenceforward it was clear: her sex-appeal and hot-tempered show sets the stage on fire, and lights the audience’s eyes and hearts. She’s like a fire-fairy dancing across a sea of oil – suddenly everything is aflame.

DARKWELLs new CD „Metatron“ is a fusion of fire and night. It burns a warming afterglow in the heart of the listener. The strong and womanly voice centers the sweeping compositions and gets affirmed by the rocking guitars, the pushing base and the challenging drum-lines. “Metatron” is a homage to the feminine magic of Gothic Metal and takes the listener into a world of bitter-sweet desire and delicious seduction by the beautiful serene Stephanie.


Line up:
Vocals – Stephanie Luzie
Bass – Roland Wurzer
Drums – Moritz Neuner
Keyboards – Raphael Lepuschitz 
Guitars – Mathias Nussbaum
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darkwell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.