Dark Project is an alternative band from India formed in 2003. 

Dark Project plays Alternative/Progressive music in the English language. This in a layman's language can be termed as “User friendly” Progressive Rock. The main influence of the band’s music comes from bands like Incubus, 3 Doors Down, Pink Floyd as well as progressive rock bands like Opeth, Dream Theater and Porcupine Tree. The sound of the band is unique to its name and is definitely not common with any of the Indian bands that exist or have existed until now on the Independent Circuit. This is the biggest “Selling Point” for the band. 

Dark Project was perceived and conceived in the year 2003 by Sauvik Biswas and Sudipto Biswas. With the initial efforts of the founder members, even before Dark Project was officially formed, they released a self titled EP on their website. This was a total DIY (Do-It-Yourself) effort, right from gathering the instruments with limited money to programming and recording every nuance on the EP. The EP generated quite a bit of buzz on the net with their songs reaching a few places via free download and via Soundclick, an online radio station. Though this was a very nominal achievement, yet they started to garner a lot of interest in their colleges as well as among their peers. This led to the formation of a complete band with Ugyal Tshering Lama on guitars, keyboards and harmonica, Arunava Chakrabarti on drums and Bakaraju Bharath on bass. These guys took on the stage for the first time in the year 2006. This was one of those monumental shows which gave them enough push to take it one notch higher.

Dark Project came out with their first album in January 2007. This album is titled "Chaos Sessions", deriving its name from the Chaos that was produced during their recording sessions at IIT Kharagpur. Chaos Sessions went on to record one of the highest play counts by an Indian contemporary band on CBS' online radio station, last.fm and managed listeners in excess of 4000 and playcounts in excess of 16000. They also managed to sell out a limited pressing of 1000 copies of their album via their website. This was a significant achievement considering the fact that the band had several constraints in achieving this. Lack of funds forced them to record all the songs till date, in a hostel room. Moreover, Dark Project has achieved this popularity without any support or sponsorship. The social networking communities talking about them testifies this fact. With time, Dark Project went through a few line up changes but they have always made a constant vouch of playing Original music - both on and off Stage.

Dark Project is:
Sudipto Biswas - Vocals, Acoustic Guitars
Ugyal Tshering Lama - Guitars, Keyboards, Harmonica
Sauvik Biswas - Guitars, Sequencing, Programming
Daryl Mascarenhas - Bass Guitar
Korak Sarkar - Drums

The official website of the band is darkproject.co.in.

Former Members:
Bakaraju Bharath
Arunava Charavarti
Nachiketa Roy Chowdhury
Nishank Lourembam
Anant Saxena - Bass Guitar

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Project">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.