There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Dark Matter is a dark ambient solo project from Dortmund, Germany, formed by Ann Jachec. For a long time she dealt with making dark ambient movie clips (many of them are on her YouTube channel f1kc1a77) For the love and deep understanding this kind of music, an idea was born in 2012; her own personal dark ambient project. Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/darkmatterdarkambient

2) Dark Matter is an alternative group from New Zealand, its leader being vocalist Stephen Cogle of The Terminals fame.

3) Dark Matter is a hip-hop group from Sydney, Australia, made up of 2 MCs Labyrinth and Ovahand.

4) Dark Matter is electronic side-project by Helios Creed (ex-Chrome).

5) Dark Matter is one man black metal band from Washington, United States.

6) Dark Matter is a progressive metal band from England, UK.

7) Dark Matter is an electronic dance music duo from Reading, UK.

8) Dark Matter is a five-piece heavy metal group from Kansas City, MO, USA. Dark Matter actually began in 1996 when John H. (vocalist) from St. Louis, MO, began writing songs under that moniker. In 1998 the solo act fleshed out into a full blown group upon the addition of Dave (bass), Kevin (drums), Brad (lead guitar), and John C. (rhythm guitar) from Topeka, KS. Each member contributes equally to the crafting of these incredible songs. With a killer bass, one phat guitar, and another doing intensive colorwork the often maddening syncopation of odd time signatures are wrapped up by off-kilter drumwork. And lyrically, Dark Matter goes over the top. The dynamic vocalist sings about an impending mortality, science fact/fiction, and societal misgivings. They released two albums - The Ultimate Killing Machine (2000) and Structure in the Storm (2003) before disbanding in 2005.

9) Dark Matter is an original instrumental progressive metal band from Limerick, Ireland. Formed in 2010 from the remains of previous bands. The original line up consisted of Eoin Crowley (guitars, synths) Dave O’Dowd (drums, programming) and Mick Leonard (bass guitar).

10) Dark Matter is a hardstyle techno producer and DJ from Bellingham, Washington USA <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Matter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.