Dark Elf is an atmospheric, deep, tribal, forestial, psytrance project. This project is the solo project of Dimitri Santas, inspired by old European and early Russian groups like Parasense, Zolod, Neuromotor, Deviant Species, Penta, Xenomorph. His journey into Electronic Music began around '97, when he had already moved to Athens from Paris.

Dimitri had a musical background in classic music, playing trumpet when he was younger and the skills he gained in mixing as a DJ slowly created the need of making his own music. He promotes the project of Dark Elf at several big, well known parties and festivals in Greece and around the Globe on his journeys as a DJ, always looking to gain new musical and social experiences. Dark Elf’s first release comes in late 2005 with “Sauron's Madness”, at DiscoValley Records, a pioneer label of the genre, founded by Greeks and based in Goa, India.

Now, Dark Elf is focusing and finalizing his first solo album called 'Eternity'. The CD is expected for early 2010 at DiscoValley Records. His second album is also to be released at the ending of 2010 at HSS Records, a growing dark label based in Athens, Greece, plus various releases on the way at Lycantrop, MMHR, Morphonic and Shaman Films.

Dark Elf is also responsible and an active member in other psytrance projects, such as “Septagram” (with Darkshire), “Double Trouble” (with Apnea), “Double Core” (with Darkshire & Apnea) and “The Fugitive Factor”, side project of himself. Having finished the Reaction Studios sound engineering course in Athens, he works as a session or live sound engineer, but also takes in charge mastering works for musicians or labels.

Dimitri travels all around the world and has multiple friends amongst other psy-trance artists. He often cooperates with many of them like Detonator, Narcosis, The Dub Wizard, Mee, Kolya Furious, Dominator and Katya-Candy Power, Alex Zik, Nelsun Mind Distortion System, Orestis, Denis Drury N'Evil, Netrosystem, David Crying Orc/Technical Hitch, Dominik Sator Arepo, Vaggelis Fractal Error, Richard Wris (Sequence Theory Project), Stavros Innersound, Looney, Enzo Aeternal and more!

Electro-Dub is his other passion. In 2008 he meets up with Vlastur, a talented and experienced bassist, member of Direct Connection, the well known Dub Laboratory of Athens. In that time Vlastur just finishes his solo album 'Interaxion Dub' and is thinking of creating his own Electro-Dub Live band, so the collaboration with Dimitri begins. They create the band “Vlastur Megadrop”. It's finally a success and their performances start to gain feedback, with their participations in big festivals.

About bookings and performances scheduled for 2009-2010, Dark Elf is presenting his album around Greece and the Globe (New Caledonia, Turkey, France, Germany, Spain and Morocco). More places remains to be confirmed. Among his past experiences, will always remain in his mind, the private parties held like rituals in Olympus Mountain and whole Greece, events he played in Russia and also the nice gathering of Forgotten Ritual in Jura Mountains, Switzerland.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Elf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.