Dark Awake is a martial / neoclassical / neofolk / ritual band from Greece, formed by Shelmerdine.
Their music is inspired by occult subjects and has a strong philosophical and alchemical context. It has been described as "mysticisal medieval and martial avant-garde art with majestic/pompous feeling, exploring the macabre fantasies from the nocturnal macrocosm of imagination".

In 2008 Dark Awake signed to Argentinian label Twilight Records and the debut album "Meseonas" was released.

In January 2013 Dark Awake signed with Polish label Rage in Eden Records and the second album, "Epi Thanaton", was released. Thematically and musically, it is about Typhonian witchcraft, Necronomicon, Sumerian mythology, Runes, Qabalah and others subjects with dark ambient soundscapes, neoclassical arrangements and ritualistic instruments like human bones.

In 2013 Dark Awake signed to Spanish label Great Turf Deluxe Records / In the Morningside Records, and released the third album, titled "Soil, Blood… and the Reaping of Light". It is an album based on the ominous side of the human psyche. Songs about the esoteric Deathcults groups in pre-war Germany like Fraternitas Saturni, Vril and other old mysteries dealing with North witchcraft and the Babylonian dreamcycle of awakening. A spiritual path with neofolk, dark ambient, ritual and old school noise music.

In the last days of 2014 released the 4th album "Anunnaki" from Great Turf Deluxe Records / WolTyr Productions.
An esoteric mystical and spiritual music that must be felt not just heard. There are dark ambient parts without of earth instrumentation, that lead to powerfull martial industrial parts that inspire war and dominion. 
An abysmal orchestration that will send your soul to places beyond. 
The absolute masterpiece of dark music. 
Dark Awake 's brand new opus takes inspiration from the ancient gods of Mesopotamia, Anunnaki. 
Anunnaki are a race of superhumanly powerful humanoid beings who were once worshipped by several of the tribes and cultures of Mesopotamia.

In 2015 released a 7" inch Vinyl EP Vinyl Record from Seventh Crow Records "Absinthe And Nihilism" , including 2 new unreleased songs about Absinthe drink ! ! 
The whole EP gives the feeling of sick tranquility and it's perfect for decadent nights with absinthe!No words to describe the music it's so different and personal.
"Absinthe, mother of all happiness…"

In 2016 released a mini album CD "Imago Typhonis" from Frozen Light Records , including 3 songs ( A cover song on Emperor "I Am The Black Wizards", a 17 minutes song about Typhonian Witchcraft with use of 
human bones instruments and Dark Ambient Soundscapes and a
cover song from Northland Tradition "Herr Mannelig".
The same mini album also released with different artwork and in A5 digipack CD by Wolfmond Productions.

Winter Solace Productions re- released in pro tape format "Soil,Blood …And The Reaping Of Light" ( the third album).
A new mini album "To Chaos Everything Is Permitted " was released on the 21nd of November 2016 ‎through Nox Ov Abraxas Records.
Also the same year , "Anunnaki" (the 4th album) re- released in 12' inch VINYL LP format by Sleaszy Rider Records.

Early on in the year 2017 the 5th full length album "Non Omnis Moriar" released by Barbatos Porductions.
It contains 9 new Magic Anthems and a charming atmosphere of the Middle Ages & poetic visions Anton S. Lavey and Arthur Rimbaud.

Same year , on the 02 May 2017 Baumwurzel Records , re- released "Epi Thanaton" ( the second album) in a special edition limited to 100 copies red pro-tape on a cardboard box with silkscreen artwork & 4 pages insert booklet.

The split album Dark Awake / Hyperborei - "Six, Six, Songs " which was released on the 22nd of May 2017 
by Twilight Records is about a split between the bands HYPERBOREI (Argentina) and DARK AWAKE (Greece) . Is the first collaboration and maybe not the last. 6 songs from each group, each one in its particular musical style.
In regards of HYPERBOREI most is dark folk , some songs taken from the soundtrack of the independent movie “The Hidden Sky” , wich they composed entirelly, but versioned to this split and a cover version of the song “Across the Universe” from THE BEATLES in a martial vein. Instead DARK AWAKE is more martial powerful drums, chants, spiritual wanderings , powerful marches, from mysticism and medieval metaphysics to divine philosophy and strength. Mysterious atmospheres and hypnotic stractures to stimulate the subconcious. Includes a cover version song from “The Moon Lay Hidden Beneath The Cloud”.

Through the years DARK AWAKE have established their own identity and quality.. their next album "Atropos Of Eudaimonia" released through Dornwald Records (Italy) in 23 Oct 2017 and is full of beauty, 
strength and spiritual evolution and the tracks convey and spread the ideas of aestheticism and transcendentalism.
A combination of Martial Industrial and Dark Ambient soundscapes towards a deep and beautiful experience and even a sense of the sacred. 
The artwork pictures are taken by Giordano Bruno (Prince of Agony) from the Italian cult metal band EVOL and between the songs there is a Sol Invictus cover with Wagnerian dramatic and emotional intensity. 
"Atropos Of Eudaimonia" is not music for the entertainment…is a path for the wisdom.




The next year , 2018 released by Cursed Monk Records the split album Dark Awake / Ruairi O'Baoighill ‎– "Between Flesh and Dust".
An album for awakening of the shadow self.The beast self.A taste of things that lie beyond..Also guest vocals in one Dark Awake track 
by Lord Kaiaphas (ex-Ancient, ​Thokkian Vortex) and the album includes Dark Awake cover on Death In June track "Fall Apart".

Same year, released by La Esencia Records on the 21 June 2018 the concept split album Dark Awake + Regard Extrême ‎– "The Odyssey".
Regard Extrême and Dark Awake has managed to create the ultimate mythological concept split album about Ulysses and his adventures, inspired by the Greek Epic poem Homer's Odyssey!!! 
Both bands worked on all tracks together, combining their styles and forces to create this opus. 
An album with a rare quality and class absolutely essential for any fans of Martial Industrial , Neoclassical, Epic, Ethereal, Dark Ambient etc.. 
The key parts of the Ulysses story are unraveled in a magnificent way both in terms of feeling and atmosphere. 



http://darkawake.bandcamp.com
http://www.myspace.com/meseonas
https://www.facebook.com/pages/DARK-AWAKE/189786207738223
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Awake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.