Formed 1992 in Athens, Attica as a one man black metal project, by Necrochrist. (Real name Dimitris Angelina's).
The project was originally titled Ceremony from 1992-1993, under this monicker, Necrochrist released Promo Tape 1993 independently. Shortly after the release of the promo, Necrochrist changed the name of his act to Darkest Oath, and released his split with Invocation in 1993. It was independently distributed on cassette. Later that same year, on October 4th 1993, he released another cassette. This one a single entitled Darkest Oath. The next year, Necro would release his biggest EP, 1994. It was entitled Paradise of the Infernal Torment. Unlike the last few releases it was released on Vinyl and by an actual label, Molon Lave Records. It was an underground success in the Greek Black Metal scene. Necro would leave his label and start searching for another, creating yet another demo for 1996. 2 years later, 1998, he would call the project quits. Trying to focus on his other band Medieval Demon. 2006 arrived when he decided to revisit the project. Creating another demo to showcase how much he had changed in the few years he was gone. It was entitled De Occulta Philosophia. It was independently released via CD. He would remain dormant for another 7 years before he released a compilation, it was a collection of all his previous Demos and EPs. It was entitled Libations to the Ancient Goat, and was released by Cryptia Productions in 2013. 2022 Daemonic Pyre Ov Gnosis. This is the first full length band's album, released by Drakkar Production's. A Symphonic Black Metal masterpiece dedicated to our Guardian Demons which us, mortals, as slaves... denied them under extreme brutal Christian laws. But time has come, Demons with their leader Lucifer and Samael's support with hordes from Princes of Hell will bring the light and freedom through the pyre of gnosis.
Line up:
Necrochrist : Vocals / R. Guitars
Uncanny : R. Guitars
Mutilator : Bass
Achilles A : Keys Orchestration
Anastasia : Vocals
G. Kollias : Drums (Session)
Lyrics by Mutilator.
Mixed and Mastered by G. Bokos at Grindhouse Studio Athens.
Artwork by Romulo Dias <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darkest+Oath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.