Dark Haunters were born in 1999, having as a purpose to offer a symphonic and gothic kind of black metal, inspired by great bands as Cradle of Filth and Dimmu Borgir. The first line-up consists of Mirko Tuttolani (vocals), Piergiorgio Annibale and Sergio Nallira (guitars), Danilo Cantarini (bass), Riccardo Ferretti (keyboards) and Claudio Martella (drums). Dark Haunters immediately demonstrated a good attitude on live shows, and during the first year of activity they opened the show for Stormlord as the supporting band at "La Mostra dei Mostri". In the early 2002 the band entered the studio to record the demo "The Haunter of the Dark", which obtains good reviews from critics and the audience, along with positive reviews on many important webzines and fanzines such as "Metal Wave", "Metal Shock”, "Holy Metal" and so on. 2002 will be a significant year for Dark Haunters, thanks to many relevant exhibitions, including the participation to the “Hatria' n 'Heavy” festival with Kurnalcool, together as the supporting band to Extrema. The next month, after the show with Extrema, the band will be headliner in the first day of "La Mostra dei Mostri Rock", which the next day will see Eldritch playing on stage. At the end of the year the band opened together with Anthenora the clinic of Mr. Nicko McBrain, Iron Maiden’s drummer. In 2005, Dark Haunters begin a very prolific period of songwriting but, due to some musical differences, in the autumn of the same year the singer Mirko Tuttolani left the band, soon replaced by Emanuele “Aramor" Bizzarro which immediately gets along with the band in a very natural way. The new songs are far from the typical cliché of the metal genre, trying to add a more personal touch, with some influences from death metal and a bit of avant-garde. During 2006, together with a second wave of live shows, the band creates a self-producted EP, "Aethernal Wile”, recorded at ACME Recording Studio. Soon the keyboardist Riccardo Ferretti left the band and was replaced by the young Luca "Helsior" Del Re. The reviews from magazines and webzines are great, and this encouraged the band to continue their live activity, which sees them as the supporting band of Gory Blister, Infernal Poetry and Horrid. But still, unfortunately, after a while the band loses the keyboardist Del Re and even two members of the main line up, Piergiorgio Annibale and Danilo Cantarini. Anyway the band doen’t give up, and starts a series of auditions which will finally see the choice of leaving Sergio Nallira as the only axe-man of the band and the entrance of Cristian "Maylord" Di Maria (keyboards) and Davor Milito (bass) as new members. Right now the band is composing new material and moves in the shadows waiting for the right moment to return stronger than before on stage and record the new stuff. ...stay tuned! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Haunters">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.