DISORDER

Darkempire was formed in 1995 by Chi-Xi-Stigma and Ihmisviha. The band released two demo tapes "Ar Thiao Rheibet" and "Symphonies of Deathcalm Landscapes" with very few copies printed. The musical style was back then more symphonic and majestic black metal than on the future releases. In the summer of 1997, the band was joined by Morgion (drums) , Bileam (bass) and Chemosh (guitar) . With this lineup the band started to rehearse for upcoming live assaults. They also wrote new and more brutal material for album to be released as a split CD with Dimentum in the year 1999. Difficulties started to follow the band and they lost their rehearsal place which they shared with Funeral feast because of continuous mindless behavior and (of course) alcohol. The last live gig was performed in the end of year 2000 at the funeral of legendary Baarikaappi bar. And that also marks the end of first Darkempire era...

SILENCE

The band was practically dead and buried, but in the year of 2002 few members tried to wake up the carcass from the grave. They amazingly enough managed to release a self published CD "Satan cometh" in 2003 which actually was a lousy home studio recording featuring drum machines as in those old demo tapes. Chi-Xi-Stigma, Ihmisviha and Morgion were the only members left and the misfortunes around the band seemed not to settle down. Lack of rehearsal place, one member visiting the mental asylum, the other one spending time in drug rehabilitation and so on. Overall nothing interesting happened around the band musically at that time.

ILLUMINATION

Somewhere around the years of 2004 and 2005 Chi-Xi-Stigma started alone to write new songs with newborn enthusiasm and enlightenment in order to take the band to a whole new level of dedication and expression. Chi-Xi-Stigma contacted Bileam (bassist in Darkempire during the first era) and together they begun to rehearse new songs and were planning to push the band to its new limits without permanent deadline for the new release. The new release shall welcome newborn Darkempire with lyrically far more profound thoughts and musically renewed expression. In the end of the year 2006 M.Rosenberg (mastermind behind Chthonian) joined Darkempire as a drummer. Although the new lineup is ready the band probably will not play any live shows in the future because of lack of interest towards such activity.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darkempire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.