More than one band goes by the name "Dark Angels".

1) A symphonic doom metal band from Domažlice, Czechia. Formed in 2004. Formerly known as Dessert Eagle, some members also play in Mysterium.

Discography: Venomous Embrace (2017), Embodiment Of Grief (2014), Bittersweet Devotion (2013), Forever & Ever (EP, 2011), Symphony Of Bridal Veil (2007), Naked In The Rain (split with Janesession, 2008), See You In Hell (demo, 2005)

Lineup 2018: Radek Popel (vocals), Václav Votruba (guitar), Jakub Vondrka (guitar), David Zíka (bass), Petra Votrubová (keyboards), Jan Kapák (drums).

2) Deantoni Parks and Nicci Kasper are Dark Angels

Deantoni Parks is a genre defying now wave/avant-garde experimental drummer, songwriter, film director, actor and record producer born in Newnan, Georgia. 

He is the founder; producer and drummer of the Now Wave Hood/Rock group, KUDU, and one-half of the writing duo, Dark Angels with producer and keyboardist Nicci Kasper, also a member of KUDU. 

Currently based in Brooklyn, New York City. In between writing and performances he has been participating as part-time faculty at Stanford Jazz Workshop, Berklee College of Music and NYC’s Drummers Collective. 

He has written, toured and collaborated with numerous artists including but not limited to The Mars Volta, Meshell Ndegeocello, Sade Adu, John Cale (The Velvet Underground), Alice Smith, Lenny Kravitz, Basement Jaxx and Cody Chesnutt.

Nicci Kasper is today’s answer to an empty void of Psychedelic Rock, Psych Folk, Space Rock and Hood Rock. Nicci provides major musical and stylistic direction much like Syd Barrett, Klaus Schultz, Clare Fischer, Bill Evans, and Freddie Mercury 

Synth bass and effects provide a pulsing undercurrent of danceable, chunky, post-punk grooves and menacing texture to every track he produces.

Nicci’s production efforts combine these rock roots with a dirty, urban-laced undercurrent that owes much to classic “B-Boy” era hip-hop and early ‘80s electro.

The final result is always current and timely, those in the know refer to it as now wave. A series of layered, ethereal and esoteric dreamscapes that consume the listener. Taking us far away from the doldrums of everyday existence and providing the soundtrack to the life we dream about. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.