1) Like punching a T-Rex in the face with a nitroglycerin-soaked boxing glove, Dark Before Dawn has created a signature sound that is just as potent, powerful, and explosive. Juxtaposing the genres of Metal, Hardcore and Punk, with peering elements of Fusion, Noise and Alternative Rock, Dark Before Dawn is reinventing the boundaries of the Hardcore-Metal music scene. Collectively, the band has framed their career by painting pulsing bass lines and relentless riffing, on a rigid canvas. Stroked with manic drumming and vocals reminiscent of a midnight execution, Dark Before Dawn is a whirlwind, roller-coaster ride of aural onslaught. Hailing from Greenville, South Carolina, Dark Before Dawn is comprised of Josh Dosher (Drums), Ryan Sams (Bass), Mitch Fjeran (Vocals), Jason Gravley (Guitar) and Brad Rhinehart (Guitar). Causing an array of massive trauma, with the sonic force that fuels their live showcases and performances, Dark Before Dawn has taken center stage at venues that scale everywhere in and between Upstate, SC and Western, NC. Critically reviewed as delivering raw intensity, and leaving a live impression that lasts longer and feels better than sex, Dark Before Dawn is destined for greatness. As fans eagerly await the highly anticipated debut album from Dark Before Dawn, the band is excited about releasing their new material to their growing, cross-cultured audience. While other mainstream, industry bands aim to leave a mark of achievement on Billboard charts, Dark Before Dawn aims to leave a mark on your face. Ultimately, the band wants to elevate above and beyond the surface of standards and expectations. In the meantime, check your insurance policies and kiss your mothers for the final time. When Dark Before Dawn rocks through your hometown, you may not make it home alive.

2) Dark Before Dawn are an alternative posthardcore pop punk band from East Kilbride, Glasgow. Bringing together elements from various genre's and influences they create something different which is emotional yet refreshing with catchy soaring choruses coupled with powerful guitar licks. Creating a name for themselves over the past few years Dark Before Dawn have begun their climb up the musical ladder.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Before+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.