Dark Dimension was called into life by Grim (ex-drummer) and Emperor (guitar, bass) in anno pestilentia 2007… The unholy passion to the dark music has become a reason for the ungodly alliance with Tyrant who finally joined the band as hellthroat to spread the black propaganda.
In a couple of mounths as the line-up became complete Dark Dimension have recorded their first demo.
Sound sucked as fu*ck but though was cold, dark and hungry. Inspite of all technical problems the goal was reached with pride powerful guitar-riffs and strong evil vokal's. Grim and Emil (giutar) have left the band during the laying down process.

In time when most european so called bm-bands produce their pseudoevil subhuman shit using expensive equipment buyed with the money of their rich christian-conformist parents Dark Dimension have to struggle against the monotheistic islamic order of their motherland and post-sowjet mentality. Tyrant had do leave the school two steps before getting his A-Level because his appearance and constant disagreement with the imitation of life which is given to everyone in usbek rotten society didn’t fit the hidden communist-islamic administration. So he made the only dessision possible for an honest non-subhuman.

In October 2007 miscommunications between two strong individualities Emperor and Tyrant have practically led to the band split-up. But the understanding of the fact that they are the last ones who hold the flag of blasphemy in Navoi and that Emperor’s impulsive and honest music deservs nothing less but ultimative voice of Tyrant, gave a new more powerful evil life to the band.
Many demo songs were re-recorded and more new songs are coming out from the dark abyss right now because Dark Dimension are laying down their first professional produced full-lengh.

Horns up! Hail Satan! Keep the music evil! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Dimension">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.