Genre: Melodic Black Metal
Origin: Switzerland
Formed in: 2002


*Actual Line-Up: 

Nezzar (Lead Guitar)
Akkahr (Guitar)
Shadow (Bass)
Abaddon (Drums) 
Seelenheil ( Vocals)

*Discography:

Demo [2003]  
Human Fear Of Darkness [2006]


Actually working on new material. 

*Biography

Dark Shadow was set up through percussionist Abaddon and guitarist Akkahr in July 2002. Some weeks later singer Typhoon, Lead-guitarist Nezzar and bass player Shadow came to the Band. By chance Abaddon became acquainted the Keyboarder Borenigma in October and short time later the first two songs were ready put. In November the first concert was confirmed for the 25th January 2003 in the Loco-club Biel. In the next weeks songs were written feverishly. In the Loco-club, 5 songs were played. In the spring 2003 still some appearances with which valuable stage experience could be gained followed. Also through a generally positive feedback of the listeners the band was encouraged in the summer 2003 to incorporating a Demo-CD. In August 4 songs were recorded in the studio by Cryptic Voice. Until end 2003 still some concerts were played also outside of the region. In February 2004 Typhoon (voc) left the band, for personal and musical reasons. On what it was good that Reghrav, singer of Bloody Blasphemy, takes over also the song with Dark Shadow. According to an also good feedback of the Demo-CD people decided on incorporating an album in the summer/fall 2004. Then also worse times came in, however. It that came one one new volume room had to search. When one had found this must this also still are arranged. How is to that so also still became Nezzar into the military service Verbannt. when Nezzar had found again from the exile back, as it is also supposed to be, bass player Shadow Beruflich was again and again except for country. It could be ended however not yet too. No, Reghrav decided on dedicating only to still his main project (Bloody Blasphemy). A new Micro "bespucker", shouter or also a Frontman was searched therefore. This was also found in shape by Appolyon. Nevertheless on that one ended it created, in 2005 was the first CD of Dark Shadow in the box. On 8th April 2006 also the release party with Stormlord went then over the stage. After a quiet year, where Dark Shadow as in a blockade was putting, almost no New Songs and almost no Live Performance, decided on one separating from Borenigma. This separation was not simple for Dark Shadow, since nevertheless Borenigma had brought a lot in the Songwriting for Dark Shadow and in the keys really what has on that. A lot thanks to at Borenigma for the zusammenarbeit and a lot of erfolg in the future. Again at the keys now "Hysteria" is. She played formerly at Atritas. Now also Appolyon decided on dedicating to other projects and in the Ramen of their<A[their|her]> study also Hysteria left again the band. Currently Dark Shadow is in the Songwriting Phase for that one of 2 Longplayer, that in the course of the next year is supposed to appear. In May 2008 the new Vocalist bumped furthermore "soul intact" to us and we hope that to withstand this Lineup stays. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Shadow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.