Dark Theory is a Black Metal band, fueled mostly by alcohol and a hate of the general 'music' scene and influenced by bands no one else seems to have heard of. We combine Black/Death/Thrash guitars, crushing blastbeats, gravity blasts and dnb style breaks, furious Blackened shrieks, melodic female vocals, electro and classical influenced keyboards and mix it all up into something you've surely never heard before. Originally formed in September 2006 as a regular 4-piece with a more mainstream influence, the band went through many changes before the unreliablity of members caused founder and bassist Ryan to continue the band alone in late 2007. With Dark Theory's first 'proper' release, "Every Kind of Filth", the genre was rooted firmly in Black Metal and Doom Metal, but had many experimental elements. Although few people heard it at first, reactions were good and the album was noted for being particularly dark and disturbing even in the world of Black Metal. The release of the next demo album, "Disgust for Humanity" was something of a 'breakthrough' for the band, as many more people came in contact causing both demos to be sent to many people from around the world. Within the next few months the band received many encouraging comments, an increase in plays, several highly positive reviews and later became a live band. On January 12th Dark Theory added Olivia on guitar, keyboards and backing vocals, and on May 9th 2010 added Cronje on lead guitar and backing vocals. This line up recorded the demo 'Look in the Mirror' and the 'Bludgeon EP' and started gigging. After a long desperate search, we added Harvey Davey on Drums on November 14th. However, due to 'Creative Differences' and personal conflicts (often referred to as bullshit by the remaining members), Cronje and Harvey left before we were to gig with Sarah Jezebel Deva. On 18th July 2011, Dark Theory added Bob Miller on drums and continued to gig as normal, but he soon quit saying that he could not commit. We are currently searching for a full time drummer. Our three demos are avaliable through Satanica Productions at their website, or just ask us and we'll give you a free copy of any of our demos. EP's can be brought at any of our gigs or from one of the band members for a mere £3. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Theory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.