With the unlikely home base of Nashville, Tennessee, one might wonder just how Dark Hound managed to achieve a heavy metal sound that seems so distinct and distant from the country music heroes spun off of Music Row. "Though we live in the capital of Country music, Nashville really is Music City, USA.  There is such a rich and diverse musical community in this town, you don't have to go too far off Broadway to escape the honky-tonks filled with tourists in boots and cowboy hats and find amazingly talented musicians from all walks of life playing all sorts of great music.  I think where we're from is an important factor as to why we don't sound like the thousands of homogeneous and distinctless metal bands coming out these days", says ET Brown, vocalist and bassist of the decidedly different Nashville act.


Formed in 2009, Dark Hound is comprised of ET Brown, Elliot Gordon (Clorange), Josh Brown (Enfold Darkness, Nashvillbilly) and Evan Hensley (Nightfall). Both the band and their sound were forged out of mutual friendship and respect for the musicianship and song-craft that define top-tier heavy metal music.


"We enjoy taking adventurous melodies and fusing them with classic heavy metal themes," says guitarist Evan Hensley. "The songwriting portion of things comes very naturally. We all love the usual slamming riffs and guitar solos, but we also strive to imbue our sound with that extra flair that comes from a band who also focus on the lyrical and vocal side of things as well. Really, we just aim to develop full sonic textures that all of us enjoy, and we expect that this will translate well to fans of many types of heavier music."


Their debut record, Spiraling to the Heavens, aims for that exact balance of texture and style. Produced and engineered by Kaelin Tauxe (Mannah, Moon Taxi), the album is to be released in 2012.


On what the members of Dark Hound hope to achieve with their music, ET states, "All of us are music fans.  When we hang out, we listen to music and we talk about music.  Metal is of course what keeps our blood pumping, and even in that we have a diverse palate (thrash/prog/black/death/power/glam/etc.), but we're also immersing ourselves in a vast array of other influences, such as Classic Rock, Americana/Roots, Psychedelic, Blues, Pop, Funk, Motown R&B, old-school and new-school, and everything in between.  All of this comes together in our music and I think that makes for an interesting and exciting listen.  When I listen to records, I want the music to take me on a journey.  I want peaks and valleys, I want to feel like I've been taken from my seat to see a large variety of landscapes and witness incredible events, and then placed back in my chair having had an experience.  And this is our mission with Dark Hound.  Take a ride with us, and see where it takes you."  

With a finely-tuned focus and a rock-solid debut record, Dark Hound is poised to become the bright star to watch as it peaks from Nashville's horizon. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Hound">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.