There are dark days ahead. Formed 2005 in Jyväskylä, Finland, Dark Days Ahead perform their very own blend of metal with a groove guaranteed to grind you to the ground. DDA combine elements ranging from rock to death metal in their music, all bound together with a healthy splash of dark intentions. No orchestral arrangements, no sword-and-sorcery theatrics, no custom clothing. Just the riffs, the songs, the people behind them and their love for music. Influenced by one genre only: music.

2008 saw the recording and release of 4 songs for promotional purposes with a different lineup. Due to lineup changes that followed and the search for suitable replacements delayed the release of the next 4-track promotional cd until 2010. This time the release gained more attention and also resulted in the making of ”Chaos Caravan” music video (directed by Anssi Korhonen/Jesterfilms) and the first ever live appearances by the band. Through 2011 the band concentrated in the writing and recording of the upcoming album with a few live appearances on the side.

In March 2012 Dark Days Ahead and Inverse records joined forces resulting in the release of the band's debut album ”The Long Road South” in May 2012. A music video for the track M.M.M. was once again directed by Anssi Korhonen/Jesterfilms.

"The Long Road South" was hailed by finnish metal media as "having a frightening amount of potential (Miasma magazine)" and "really worth checking out (Inferno magazine)." Vertigo.cd praised the album for having "an impressive metallic groove."

After the shows played in support of the album were over the band began to concentrate on the next album. This time the band brought in a wide range of influences and began to broaden its musical horizons yet stayin true to their original riff-driven sound. And so "North Star Blues" was born for 2014 release.

Prepare for the Dark Days Ahead. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Days+Ahead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.