The band was formed in 1987 as Dark Devils.  In 1988, Dark Devils released their first demo titled "Shrinel", a combination of heavy metal and classical music – an influence that is present in their music ever since.
In 1989 with their main core lineup stabilized (Elias – Guitars, Nick Adams – Drums, Shrinel – Bass and Johnny K. – Vocals), they changed their name to Dark Nova and proceeded in making heavy metal history. Their core musical style of progressive power metal develops rapidly and with the addition of Athan – Guitars (ex. Flames) by 1991, Dark Nova get their first contract with famous underground label  "Molon Lave Records".  
Their skills honed and perfected in numerous headline and supporting concerts, they finally get into the studio in 1992 and record their debut album, aptly named "The Dark Rhapsodies". “Dark Rhapsodies” was a concept album (a worldwide first in the power progressive genre for a debut album) that told the story of a young man in a quest for power through magic.  Released in 1993, it received raving reviews from press and fans alike followed by a supporting tour which included an appearance alongside Chuck Mosley’s Cement (ex-Faith No More). In 1994 the band’s song “Back Again” was included in the compilation “Metal Gear” by Soundphaze International Records. 
The years that followed up until 1997 were times of change for the band. With Molon Lave Records now defunct the band was out for a contract once again. The lineup was altered a bit but the core of Elias, Nick and Johnny persisted, producing demos that would be destined to become the epic “1999 – (A Step Beyond?)”.  Those demos sent out as promos, earned excellent marks from the press such as the Japanese "BURN" and the German "THE CIRCLE". Live performances while reduced in number were important, like their appearances with Rage and Gamma Ray in 1995.
1997 was a great year for Dark Nova, as it appeared alongside Megadeth, Bruce Dickinson – Adrian Smith, Grip Inc. and once again Rage and finally got signed by Seven Records. A copious year in the studio ensued that culminated in 1999’s release of their second album titled "1999 (A step beyond...?)".  
A supporting tour followed with in-between supporting gigs for Fates Warning in 1999 and Testament in 2000.
Much needed reflection ensued with a few member changes – Johnny K. left the band after a full 11 years in Dark Nova replaced by Michael H. Also for the first time, the band has a permanent keyboard player found in the classically trained Mary. A world first for a power metal band is the addition of a second permanent female member: The very capable Lara K. – Bass who also participated in the “1999 (A Step Beyond…?)” would leave her mark in the third album that was however a few years away. Only one major concert would happen in that time with Paul DiAnno in 2002. Dark Nova’s bad luck with labels would continue as Seven Records folded in 2001 leaving the band without a recording contract and many new ideas put on hold.
Swift reorganization and much needed stability returned in 2004 were concerts resumed and a new record deal was signed with Black Lotus Records. 2005 brought a new album, the mysteriously named “Sivilla”. In the band’s tradition, “Sivilla” received all positive reviews. Moreover for the first time, Dark Nova has its own music video. “Desperate Act” which aired among others on MTV’s Headbanger’s Ball and Metal Hammer’s own show TV War. As part of the support tour for the new album, Dark Nova appeared alongside the Power Metallers Mystic Prophecy the then band of Ozzy’s axman Gus G.
2005 to 2010 found Dark Nova’s members embarked on several projects, with Elias joining the ranks of Epic metallers Wolfcry who released “Glorious” in 2010 featuring “God of Deception” an Elias composition which was turned into a music video that also received raving reviews featuring his unmistaken classically-infused guitar style. Elias also spent time teaching passing his knowledge to a younger generation. Nick Adams found himself involved with several project spreading from plain old rock’n’roll to blues and classic rock.
This atypical hiatus however was only in respect to the public. Dark Nova was continuously hard at work preparing the next big step in their recording history. Enter Mano an accomplished singer with a powerful voice to replace the departed Michael and Shrinel who returned to the fold once again and once more without a recording contract as Black Lotus had folded earlier, Dark Nova entered Maranis Studios in Stuttgart on their own to record their fourth full length album. Recording and mixing lasted from July 2011 until February 2012. 
In May 2012, Dark Nova entered into discussions and soon thereafter came in agreement with Metal Breed Records USA for re-release of their entire back catalog. Mastered by the world renowned Dr. M. Tselentis of R-Mic studios, the first fruits of their collaboration are the 20th anniversary edition of “The Dark Rhapsodies” and “1999 (A Step Beyond…?)”. “The Dark Rhapsodies” due to the lack of any master tape was painstakingly restored from a vinyl record and then remastered to bring out sound quality not even present in the original 1992 pressing.  The restoration process followed by a complete digital remastering did not escape “1999 (A Step Beyond…?)”. For the first time, the listener can fully understand and enjoy the power and technique present in Dark Nova’s epic compositions. Both albums are set for worldwide release through iTunes, Amazon MP3, eMusic, Zune Marketplace and Google Play on Friday, July 13th, 2012. “Sivilla” although already available on iTunes and Amazon will be released by Metal Breed Records USA as soon as some licensing issues are resolved. 
In November 2012, Dark Nova wanting to continue their successful cooperation with Metal Breed Records, agreed to release their eponymous album with the label making it the first all new release of the band available primarily in America.
Their new album, simply named “Dark Nova” is bigger, better and harder than ever before; pushing once more the limits on musicality, arrangement and melody without losing sight of the bands long and creative history.
Special mention should be made about the album’s cover, realized by South American artist Felipe Machado Franco renowned for his covers for Blind Guardian, Rhapsody of Fire, Gamma Ray etc.

“Dark Nova” will be available starting December 15th, 2012 on digital distribution channels and in January 2013 in physical form (CD/Vinyl). 

Discography

Full Length Albums (As Dark Nova)
“The Dark Rhapsodies” (LP) –  Molon Lave Records, 1993
“1999 (A Step Beyond…?)” (CD) – Seven Records, 1999
“Sivilla” (CD – Digital Download) – Black Lotus Records, 2005
“Dark Nova”(Digital Download – CD – LP) – Metal Breed Records, 2012 
“The Dark Rhapsodies – 20th Anniversary LP Edition” (Digital Download) – Metal Breed Records, 2012
“1999 (A Step Beyond…?) - Remastered” (Digital Download) – Metal Breed Records, 2012
Compilations
“Metal Gear”  (CD) – Soundphaze International Records, 1994
“Salute to the Vikings – A Tribute to Bathory” (CD) – Metal Invader, 1997
“Beast Over Greece – A Tribute to Iron Maiden” (CD) – Heavy Metal /Metal Hammer, 2012

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Nova">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.