Darkness Dynamite was formed in January 2007 by Zack, Alexandre, and Eddie, respectively, guitar player, drummer, and singer. The line-up was later completed by the addition of Chris on bass, and Nelson as lead guitar.
The band recorded their first EP ‘ Through the Ashes of the wolves ‘ in June 2007. This release overhelms both fans and critics, and Darkness Dynamite soon signed a distribution deal with Musicat to reach a broader audience.

Combining a strong musical technique with a delicate sense of image, the band sells out the first pressing of the EP. Touring starts, and Darkness Dynamite shares the stage with bands like Bring Me The Horizon, Maroon, Architects, Job For A Cowboy, Shaped By Fate and The Chariot.

In 2008, Darkness Dynamite decides to take things a step higher, and starts the composition of their first album. As the composition goes, a few artistic feuds begins to rise between the band and Eddie, who is later, asked to leave the band. Darkness Dynamite welcomes in Junior Rodriguez to replace Eddie on the vocals. 

Darkness Dynamite integrates all of the modern metal flavours but takes inspiration from 80’s metal with references such as Metallica, Guns n' roses, Pantera, and Sepultura. Their new vocal signature opens them a brand new horizon : heavy metal, rock, power metal….METAL.
After 5 months of intensive work with composition and pre-production, the recording process can finally start in August 2008.
To make sure the sonic emphasis can reach the level the band expected, a few producers are chosen :
- Stéphane Buriez records the guitars ( Loudblast, Black Bomb A, L’Esprit du Clan)
- Olivier at Elektricbox Studio, Lille, records the drums (Borderline, Aceout, Monroe est Morte)
- The mixing and mastering duties are handled with great talent by Remyboy at Ahddenteam Studio, Lille, (Mats & Morgans, Demians, Syn, Rodrigue)

Some members of the band also play(ed) in Four Question Marks, Sublime Cadaveric Decomposition, Today is the day and Inhatred. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darkness+Dynamite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.