Darkdayrising was a five-piece metal formation from the west of Holland. Their style is probably best described as a mix of Death-, Thrash and Black metal, but other musical influences occasionally pop up. When they first started writing songs their main influences were metalcore acts like All out war and Liar, and bands like Slayer and Cradle of filth. The more recent songs however, were influenced by metal acts like Monstrosity, Immortal, The Crown and God dethroned. Somehow the band managed to evolve from 'thrashmetalcore' to pure (and increasingly technical) metal.

In the end of 1998 Roel, who's old hardcore band Ignorance had just broken up, traded his bass guitar for a normal guitar and started jamming with Boy on drums. They were playing cover songs in the back of their high school, but soon they found themselves a real rehearsal shed where they could practice whenever they wanted. They started experimenting with song writing, starting with old school hardcore, but as their musical skills developed more metal influences popped up.

In April 2000 Roel met Jasper who had just quit his old band. Jasper proved to be the perfect singer for the band, combining Kreator-like vocals with deep deathgrunts.

In November 2000 they recorded the four songs they had written so far in their rehearsal studio and the pre-demo "Apocalyptic visions of undeniable truth" hit the hardcore scene. For only 3 guilders a piece they sold like crazy and about 80 were sold.

In January 2001 the time had come to hit the stage and their friend David of hardcore band Quarterback from De Kwakel offered them a show and he himself would fill the vacant spot of bass player. One week before the first show the Hoofddorp Hardcore band Standard broke up and their guitarist Tobi offered to play second guitar in the band.

Now the line-up was complete and ready to go. They made quite a name for themselves because of their refreshing style and energetic show, playing about 20 shows in their first year. The highlight of this was when they opened for grindcore legends Napalm Death!

They decided it was time to put out a decent recording and in November 2001 they hit the Harrow studio in Losser, the Netherlands, to record their debut MCD Underworld Dreams containing 2 tracks that were also on the old pre-demo and 3 new ones. After 3 recording sessions and some delay the MCD came out in September 2002 and got a lot of very positive reviews.

The band has played almost 50 shows, mostly in the hardcore scene, but since the beginning of 2003 Darkdayrising has had the chance to play more shows in the metal scene. The response there has been overwhelming, despite the fact that the band doesn't look like a metal band (in appearance).

In May Darkdayrising was elected to play at the `Locals Only'-stage of the Fields of Rock festival, alongside bands like Arch Enemy, Nile, Metallica and Opeth.

Early in 2005 the band played their last show before they called it quits. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darkdayrising">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.