Dark Energy = James Pennington

Saying that this man needs no introduction would truly be an understatment. Suburban Knight’s (aka James Pennington) contributions to the world of techno, house and dance music in general are unequivocal. His influence on electronic music can hardly be summed up in a simple biography. Dating back to his early works as a member of Inner City for their two biggest hits Big Fun and Good Life. This came about from his early days as a college party DJ alongside Juan Atkins, Kevin Saunderson, Derrick May and Eddie Fowlkes going as far back as 1982. He also attended the infamous Belleville High School graduating a few years after Juan and Kevin.

He then made his way into the world of techno, forever changing it, with his hit “The Art of Stalking” on the fledgling Transmat Label. The heavy reverbs and abstractly angular synths were best described as musical cubism. His marriage of dark abstraction, melody, and menacingly groovy rhythms proved to have devastating effects on the dance floor. He then went on to join the Underground Resistance camp as a producer and touring DJ. His first vinyl offering for UR was a massive techno hit “Noctorbulus Behavior.” Thus reassuring his status as one of techno music’s truly great pioneers. On UR he also contributed to the “Dark Energy” release and his next EP “By Night.” And his track “Maroon” was undoubtedly one of the highlights of the Underground Resistance compilation album “Interstellar Fugitives.

He has since started his own label DARK PRINT, in which the first release “Tech-hieroglyphics”, was a compilation of Detroit and Belgian artists including GiGi Galaxy, The Sense, Locutus, DJ Tao, Punisher and Twonz. Suburban Knight has chosen to keep his releases less frequent then some of his peers; instead keeping his releases as what he describes as “essential lessons”. His performances as a DJ are no different; rare, much sought after, and not forgotten. Audiences have sought out his DJ “lessons” all over the world including: Tresor Club, Ten Days of Techno, several appearances at Love Parade, Bugged Out, The End, a tour in Japan, a tour in Australia and Israel just to name a few. And he still continues on leaving a wake of smashed barriers and a nothing short of a legacy behind. (taken from the Submerge website) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Energy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.