DARK SECRET LOVE (Love-Metal)
Moscow

A Moscow rock group, called DARK SECRET LOVE (http://darksecretlove.ru/), was found in August 2002 on the initiative of two guitar-players and a drummer, who had found each other through the Internet. After a mutual rehearsal they decided to play a classic technical thrash metal. During the first year of their joint work DARK SECRET LOVE were rehearsing covers on famous foreign groups such as Slayer, Megadeth, Metallica and Anthrax, planning to create their own music in the similar style.

After staffing the group and thinking out the name of the band in summer 2003, the guys had their debut on September 10, 2003 at the presentation of the magazine Rock Oracle and skillfully played their set consisting of 8 songs of SLAYER.

During the season of 2003-2004 the band had a great amount of club-concerts with the program, consisting of covers and took part in traditional big cover festivals.

In addition to thrash – program DARK SECRET LOVE played songs of vivid representatives of light rock such as HIM, The 69 eyes and Charon. Owing to such concerts the band gained rather wide audience among the fans of love metal and gothic culture.

During the season of autumn 2004 - spring 2005 the band had more than 40 concerts in Moscow, St. Petersburg and other cities of Russia presenting programs in various musical genres.

In summer 2005, using their experience and staying loyal to the traditions of heavy music, and at the same time counting on melodic, the musicians began to compose their own songs and at the same time continued their concert activity.

In autumn 2007 the band started to record their debut album (http://darksecretlove.ru/download.htm) on finnish “Astia-Studio”, the producer and sound engineer of which was the famous finnish Guru of heavy music Anssi Kippo. He worked with such bands as Children of Bodom, Terasbetoni, Norther, To-Die-For, Entwine, Hanna Pakarinen. Mastering is being made in finnish studio FINNVOX by the dabster Mika Jussila.

Each concert of DARK SECRET LOVE is an inexpressible splash of emotions and energy, mighty stream of drive and rock’n’roll in the spirit of modern music being moved by the 21st century. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Secret+Love">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.