The origins of Dark Filth Fraternity
In January 2004, Panu Willman (Guitar/Vocals), Heikki Iso-Sipilä (Guitar/Vocals), Riku Willman (Drums) and Henri Räsänen (Bass) stepped into a rehearsal room in southern Finland, and proceeded to be guided by musical forces both good and dubious. They felt that their sound had real potential; slightly dark and melodic, most certainly filthy, and heavy as hell! These guys had the same belief and fanatic approach to writing the heaviest and more importantly, soulful music possible; so the stars were aligned for this crew!


Where does the DFF-sound come from?
It must be said that due to the trios’ previous experience together in various local bands, the pace and ease of the writing process was phenomenal and they had a tight sounding set in no time. The “Cleanse my Soul”-EP (2004) was just that. A bare bones hard rock disc that proved to be an excellent example of what these guys could get up to in a studio. Although it had a limited release it received positive write-ups in all the local rock media.
“The Book of Clear Light” (2006), their debut album, was a natural extension to the “Cleanse My Soul”-EP because they used the same mixer/engineer, Aleksanteri Kuosa, for that project. So the album had a similar feel to the EP, with a much more polished soundscape, of course. A more complex and varied songwriting approach was also used on the Clear Light-album with tracks as diverse as “The Orchid Song” and “A Murderer”, which are powerful in a more ambient and atmospheric way.


The journey continues
After extensive gigging and promotional work for “The Book of Clear Light”, the band decided to hire a personal manager to assist them with matters outside the actual music-making process, to be able to focus more on what they know best. So this new and vital member of the DFF-clan is Mr Jesse Piirainen, who sees to it that the band is always in tune and on time!


Summer of 2007
The recordings for the sophomore album, “Breathe Again”, began in the middle of 2007. During the recordings, which took place on various occasions between July 2007 and June 2008, Panu and Heikki played their primary guitar-tracks simultaneously, as opposed to recording each instrument's track on its own. That's just one of the secrets to the bands' unique guitar sound on this album. Matias Ahonen recorded the drum tracks at DFF's rehearsal room without using a click-track at all. The aim of the whole album was to play the songs, instead of everybody playing their instruments. Although the soundscape for the album is based purely on four instruments and a voice, additional spice was added by Matias, who fell under the spell of a Steinway & Sons concert piano and a Hammond organ on some of the tracks.
"Swans Don't Weep" was the first single from the album, which was released as single / music video in October 2007. It received airplay on local radio stations and on different MTV Nordic-shows.


2008 - Release of the sophomore album
The second single, "The Peacemaker", came out in June 2008 and got positive reactions from both local radio stations and several internet-radio stations around the globe. At the beginning of August a third single “Silence/Beauty” will be released in conjunction with the music video for "The Peacemaker" and the “Breathe Again”-album.

August 27, 2008
"Breathe Again" is released now.

May 13, 2009
Dark Filth Fraternity has changed its name into DFF, due to a press release signed Panu Willman (founder of DFF).

Biography taken (with permission) from the Offcial Myspace-Page

Dark Filth Fraternity - Official Homepage
http://www.darkfilthfraternity.com

Dark Filth Fraternity - Official Myspace-Page
http://www.myspace.com/dffband

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Filth+Fraternity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.