Hard Rock/Heavy Metal band from Stockholm, Sweden. D.I. started out in the early eighties. The boys struggled on for a few years but eventually would call it a day in 1985 after gigging locally and knocking out a few demos.

However, in 2003 Tomas Hultqvist and Niklas Tengblad, two of the original members reunited and began to work on some of Hultqvists songs of which 3 appeared on the 2003 - For Just Another Night - single. It featured Thomas Vikström on splendid vocals and gained good recognition both in Sweden and abroad. The single got air time on Swedish national radio + stations in Germany and Italy.

Inspired by the success D.I. quickly resettled in the studio and began to work on what would become the - Beyond The Shadows - album, containing original songs from the 80s and 90s. The recording took over a year to finish but finally saw its release in late 2005. Once again it featured Thomas Vikström on vocals, and original members Tomas Hultqvist and Niklas Tengblad on guitars + Pontus Egberg on bass and Jonas Östman on drums. Original D.I. 80s B-player Ola Jansson also joined in on 3 tracks. Finally, Fredrik Folkare put a finishing touch on the recording with an awesome mix + adding keyboards on two songs.

Since then the boys have been promoting the album, giving interviews and sent the album to magazines and radio stations all over the world. The recognition has been great. Germany and Japan have proven to be D.I.s strongest markets. Although no gigs has been announced yet the interest for the band is increasing by the hour, so if things continue to go in the right direction it’s only a matter of time.

In the present hour, the news is that after releasing a music video in autumn 2006 of - NIGHT KNIGHT -, D.I. is finally working on new songs. Exactly where and when the recording of a 2nd album will take place is a little bit uncertain at the moment, but the ambition is to start up the recording process in early 2007. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Illusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.