Here's the story of five guys that started a band with one goal: to unite all their interests and influences under one banner. And they would call it
DARK DAY DUNGEON.
Formed in summer 1998 in the heart of Switzerland this band grew stronger and more intense every day and only after a few months of practicing and playing shows the first record was ready to be made. In spring 1999 the self titled 4-song MCD was released on the Swiss label natural high records and the reactions were just overwhelming. With the CD in the trunk the band hit the road for the first time and played shows in Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Belgium and Hungary with bands like Trial, Grade, Buried alive, Madball and The year of our lord.

DARK DAY DUNGEON planned to record their first full-length in early spring 2001 but had to postpone the recording sessions: original singer Fedi left the band. In august 2001 finally a new singer was found, Christian Ebert (ELISION, CATARACT) from Germany was ready to join his Swiss friends. With new gained power and motivation DARK DAY DUNGEON recorded 12 songs in the alpha omega studio in Como Italy and shortly after that they recorded the vocals for 10 of them in Würzburg, Germany. The full-length CD named "know your enemy" was released in June 2002 on the German label "let it burn records". The feedback was breathtaking and above all expectations of the band. This CD brought DARK DAY DUNGEON a big step further. The two songs that were left from the studio sessions were released later on a limited 7inch called "Let the sin begin" on Paperstreet Industries, Switzerland. It was sold out very quick after the release.
Drummer and founding member Brian and bass player Alain quit the band in December 2002 and two new warriors had to be recruited: Martin Hunziker on drums and Piotr Winiarski on the bass. With the new lineup the band went on promoting their releases and hit the road again for another European tour. This time with Americas undying. Once again the tour was a lot of fun and success. After this the band started writing new material. The song writing was interrupted again by another tour New York’s heroes in pro-pain offered DARK DAY DUNGEON to join them on their current tour. For the fist time the band got to travel on a real nightliner.

More than 120 shows were played in over 15 different countries at the time they entered the studio again. With the lineup, consisting of Attila, Monte, Martin, Christian and Piotr, they started the work on the new record. The recordings were done again in Como, Italy. With the new material already
sounding very Swedish, the band flew to Sweden for the mixing and in the holy halls of Studio Fredman in Gothenburg the legend himself, Fredrik Nordström, took care of the eleven songs and made them sound even more intense and brutal. He already helped them all on their way to the top: arch enemy, at the gates, in flames... guess who's gonna be next!

The new death-mosh monster called "By Blood Undone" will be released in September 2005 on LET IT BURN RECORDS. Expect the best of DARK DAY DUNGEON's past trademarks combined with more technical metal, brutal mosh and furious vocals. Expect a limited picture lp version of this masterpieve in November 2005 through SILENT STAGNATION RECORDS.

There will be blood on the dance floor.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dark+Day+Dungeon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.