There are two artists called Darren Tate, A DJ/Producer from London, and an ambient/drone artist, also from the UK.

1. UK DJ / Producer
Darren Tate is an international producer and DJ born in London, England. As a classically trained musician, Darren has earned his reputation as one of Europe's leading producers, having worked with a wide range of international artists and writers. He is also one of the worlds most successful dance producers, having had huge international hits with the likes of Jurgen Vries, Angelic, Orion, Citizen Caned and most recently DT8 Project.  He has also worked with a huge array of top international artists and writers and has enjoyed much success in the areas of television, film and musical theatre.
 
Darren has given the world some of it’s biggest dance floor hits.  He is best known for huge cross over projects such as Angelic (with Judge Jules - 'It's My Turn', 'Can't Keep Me Silent', 'Stay With Me'), Jurgen Vries ('The Theme', 'The Opera Song (Brave New World)', 'Wilderness') and most recently DT8 Project ('The Sun Is Shining (Down On Me)', 'Winter'). However closest to the hearts of the millions of clubbers out there are classics such as 'DT8 - Destination', 'Orion - Eternity', 'Let The Light Shine In (with Jono Grant)', 'Prayer For A God' and most recently his ‘Horizons 01’ album.

This summer will see the full release of the highly anticipated DT8 Project album ‘Perfect World’, which promises to be one of the most inspired and original electronica albums of 2006.  The album will include the massive hits ‘The Sun Is Shining (Down On Me)’ and ‘Winter’, and will feature exclusive performances by many major international artists.

Darren also has an ever growing reputation as one of the worlds premiere DJs, where his blend of trance, hard trance and progressive house has been causing a huge stir in the dance community.  As well as headlining many major events and touring across the globe he finds time to host the weekly ‘Mondo vs Noys Sessions’ with Mike Koglin on Ministry of Sound Radio Monday 10-12pm GMT and the monthly ‘’Mondo Sessions’ which is syndicated across a global international radio station network.  In addition he has received rave reviews for his mix duties on albums such as ‘Beyond Euphoria (MOS)’, ‘Trance Republic (with John Askew and Agnelli & Nelson)’ and the forthcoming ‘Mondo Sessions 001’ with Mike Koglin.  
 
Darren also chairs over Mondo Records Ltd (www.mondorecords.com), Mondo Music Publishing Ltd, Angelic Sounds Ltd and the newly formed Mondo DJ agency (www.mondodjs.com).

2. UK Ambient and Drone artist
Darren Tate has been making drone and ambient music since the 1980's, both under his own name and in collaboration with others as Ora and Monos. Much of his material has been released on his own Fungal label.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darren+Tate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.