The story of DARZAMAT, Polish atmospheric dark metal band, can be traced all the way back to 1995. After a few initial releases (In the Flames of Black Art, Oniriad and the MCD In the Opium of Black Veil), the founding member Flauros (voc) managed to gather musicians who have since been identified as the band’s core: guitar players Chris and Daamr, female vocalist Nera and keyboard player Spectre. The album Semidevilish, released in 2004, established the sound of the newly consolidated band and gave it strength to start appearing more regularly on stage.

The following year saw the release of Transkarpatia, which proved to be a major leap forward. The album, produced by Andy LaRocque, the legendary guitar force behind King Diamond, was given the clarity and force it deserved. As a result, the name DARZAMAT started to be featured on posters for such European festivals as Rock Hard Open, Wave Gothic Treffen, Hard Rock Laager, S-Hammer Festival, Last Night on Earth, Dong Open Festival, Moscow After Midnight and Metal Head Mission. At that time, the band found themselves performing for an ever widening circle of audiences in Balkan states, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Belgium, Holland, Italy, France and Germany. Also around that time DARZAMAT embarked on tours supporting Sabaton in Benelux countries and Moonspell in Poland.

The year 2007 saw the band perform on Winternachtstraum Festival and on the 21st edition of the venerable Polish Metalmania Festival, organized since the 1980s. This performance was documented on the DVD album Live Profanity (Visiting the Graves of the Heretics), released on both sides of the ocean. In the 2009 DARZAMAT landed a worldwide record deal with Massacre Records, a German label, and delivered the fifth album of its career, Solfernus’ Path, also made available in Japan. Solfernus’ Path marked the first time the band ever ventured into a concept album territory. Andy LaRocque moved from the production seat to the guest-musician spot and contributed a solo on ‘The King of the Burning Anthems’. Two songs—'Pain Collector’ and ‘Chimera’—was selected to promote the album and both were made into videos. DARZAMAT toured in Poland, Mexico, France, Czech Republic, Ukraine and Belgium, then returned to Poland to make an appearance at the Castle Party Festival.

In 2011 the band took a long deserved break. Nera used her time away to focus on her solo project, NeraNature, which features gentler, atmospheric rock laced with electronics. She delivered no less than three albums so far, with the latest one, MagJa, released in 2018. Flauros, on the other hand, decided to bring back the black metal beast Mastiphal. In 2011, the fans were teated to Parvzya (Witching Hour), the first new full-length since the 1995 cult classic debut For a Glory of All Evil Spirits…

In 2019 DARZAMAT announced a new album The Burning Kingdom. The fans can expect another concept album, picking up the story right where its predecessor left off. Flauros, the main creative force behind the work, has revealed that this chapter takes place in London and that the lyrics for the album were penned by him and a long-time friend and writer, Jesion Kowal. Musically, the album opens a new era in DARZAMAT’s history—gone are the keyboards, up till now characteristically prominent. In their place the band inserts more diversified and complex guitar sounds.
Pre-production and recording sessions for The Burning Kingdom were overseen by Maurycy ‘Mauser’ Stefanowicz of Vader fame; production and mixing were handled by one of the most talented Polish producers, Jarosław Baran. The record is due for a much anticipated release in 2020. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Darzamat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.