Das Pop is a band founded in 1998 in the Belgian town of Ghent by schoolfriends Reinhard Vanbergen, Niek Meul and Bent Van Looy. They were initially called Things To Come, but changed later their name to Das Pop.  They have a considerable fanbase in Europe.

In 2007 the line-up evolved with the addition of drummer Matt Eccles, a 23 year old from New Zealand. Shortly after Eccles joined the band they played a showcase at Manchester's In The City music industry conference and were then signed by Sony BMG imprint Ugly Truth Records.

In 2007 Das Pop's song "Underground" was included by French dance act Justice on their mix album Fabric Live and in their ‘A-Z of Justice’ mix on Rob Da Bank’s BBC Radio 1 show.

In January 2008 Das Pop released "Fool For Love" on UK independent label Prestel Records. The release featured remixes from French DJ SebastiAn and Yuksek, which the Culture section of UK newspaper The Sunday Times said "the momumental new single from the Belgian electro band".  "Fool For Love" is now available as a free download through the band's MySpace page.

"Underground", the first single from the album is released on 4th August and has received huge support from many top DJs and major radio stations across the UK.  There are also remixes from Van She, Busy P and Kid Gloves.

Das Pop have been touring all over the world at festivals such as Glastonbury, 02 Wireless and Lovebox, plus supporting acts including Gossip, Death Cab For Cutie, and The Kills. Das Pop have a summer full of gigs and a London headline date to follow.

In 2010 the song Never Get Enough was featured in Gossip Girl episode Goodbye, Columbia.

Das Pop's brand new album, "The Game", was offered on March 8th, 2011 with the issue of Humo magazine, with the title track being released on single on February 25th, 2011. The band is currently rehearsing for an extensive tour, with a Brussels date at the Ancienne Belgique planned for April 15th. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Das+Pop">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.