Datum Point is an Christian Southern Thrashcore band from the Cincinnati, Ohio region.
  Dusty Murphy and Donny Combs started the band in 2008 with ex members Will Sharkey and Kevin McDaniel.  Shortly after writing and recording a few demo tracks, Will left the band to pursue a solo project, Significant Brother.  In early 2009, the band recruited veteran industrial metal artist drf to take over on bass guitar.  During this period, the band self-recorded and released a demo entitled "War".  It encluded four tracks and was only available for a short time.
  The remainder of 2009, Datum Point's regional fan base began to grow as they frequented local clubs and festivals.  One of the highlights of 2009 was when the band played alongside several metal acts on the Slave to the Metal Tour, Hosted by Mistress Juliya (formerly of That Metal Show).  During that show, the band recieved several positive reviews from concert attendees despite the bands obvious Christian stance. 
  In March 2010, drummer Kevin McDaniel left the band to form Fall From Sorrow.  The same month bassist drf parted ways and joined forces with Chris May (ex-vocalist Behind the Beheaded, Rooker's Assasins) to resume work on his previous Industrial Death Metal project, Subtorn.  The band then added Steve "SKS" Stratton (Happy The Wicked, 12 Seconds of Rage) to the bass position and Joshua "Sweets" Young (Advocate SeVen) on drums to complete the lineup.
  All of the current and former members of Datum Point with the exception of Will Sharkey have used 
psedonymns throughout the bands history. D. Murphy (Rev Dred), D. Combs (DC Shred), derf (drf), 
K.McDaniel (K. McDee), S.Stratton (SKS) and J. Young (Sweets).  The band is notorious for a 50 gallon drum that Murphy beats with a hammer throughout the band's set.  It has been painted multiple times with different slogans on it and is very much a part of the stage show.
  April of 2010, the band signed to Brutal Roots Records.  April through June 2010, the band recorded their first fully produced release "Wake the Dead" at The Basement Studios in Winston-Salem, NC.  The record was engineered, mixed and mastered by seasoned Sound Engineer Jamie King (Between the Buried and Me, Whitechapel, For Today).  "Wake the Dead" is slated for release on September 7, 2010.
  The band has saw great advancement in 2010, headlining shows at national club The Underground and playing alongside national acts such as Haste the Day, Brian "Head" Welch, Day of Fire, Sleeping Giant, Corpus Christi and others.  The band played on the Ichthus 2010 Deep End Stage as well which included other acts such as The Devil Wears Prada, For Today, Gwen Stacy and Impending Doom.



Current Members:

Dusty Murphy (Rev. Dred)
Donny Combs (DC Shred)
Steve Stratton (SKS)
Josh Young (Sweets)


Previous Members:

Will Sharkey
Kevin McDaniel (K-Mcdee)
Derf Jarvis (drf)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Datum+Point">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.