David 'Rock' Feinstein, a cousin of Ronnie James Dio, had played with his famous relative and recorded with him in RONNIE DIO AND THE PROPHETS as well as the pre RAINBOW outfits THE ELECTRIC ELVES and ELF in the early 70s.
Feinstein had become interested in music at a very early age, taking up the trumpet at 7 years of age and then the drums. By 18 he was in a band called THE CINDELLS playing a mixture of folk and covers from the likes of CREAM, the ROLLING STONES and THE BEATLES, releasing a couple of singles along the way.
The band split in 1967 and he was asked by Ronnie Dio if Feinstein fancied the job of replacing the guitarist in RONNIE DIO AND THE PROPHETS. Feinstein barely played the guitar at the time, but soon learnt, and joined the group, who progressed to becoming the ELECTRIC ELVES, the ELVES and, ultimately, ELF with whom he stayed until they were effectively taken over by Ritchie Blackmore upon his original departure from DEEP PURPLE in the mid 70s.
With 'Rock' now wrestling with his conscience and proclaiming that he wished 'to recover from the sixties' the man retreated into the wilderness- literally. In 1972 he began work for the wildlife conservation department in upstate New York and soon after sold all his possessions to buy a plot of land deep in the forest building his own log cabin which deliberately lacked such amenities as electricity or running water.
The old yearning was still in his heart though and THE RODS sprang from an original idea of Feinstein to collaborate on material with bassist Joey DeMaio and drummer Carl Canedy and see what materialized. Dubbed DAVID FEINSTEIN'S THUNDER, this formative band contributed a track, 'Slippin' And Slidin'', to a BUDDY HOLLY tribute EP. Original songs were put together by this trio, reportedly extremely heavy, the only recorded evidence of which is the scarce "Midnight Lady" 7" single, released on the DMR label in 1978 under the name of Dave Feinstein.
It was whilst playing in DAVID FEINSTEIN'S THUNDER that Joey Demaio's music career nearly went up in smoke quite literally, when, during his bass solo, a row of flash and smoke bombs went off prematurely setting on fire his fringed costume. DeMaio suffered severe burns which put him in hospital for two months, during which time he underwent countless hours of physical therapy before his hands were supple enough to play his bass guitar again. De Maio's style of bass playing was eventually deemed to be at odds with Feinstein's bluesier delivery and the project was extremely short-lived, De Maio eventually finding the perfect vehicle for his talents by forming MANOWAR.
Feinstein & Canedy formed THE RODS with bassist Steve Starmer in 1979.
But that's a whole other story...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dave+Feinstein">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.