There are several artists with the name Dave Stewart:
1) Dave Stewart (prefers David A. Stewart) is most renown as one half of the succesful 80s pop duo Eurythmics
2) Dave Stewart is a British keyboardist and former member of Egg, Hatfield and The North, National Health and Bruford, now works with vocalist Barbara Gaskin
3) Dave Stewart is a British drummer with the group Camel
4) Dave Stewart is a British guitarist and vocalist with Steve Hillage's band

1) David A. Stewart is most renown as a member of the succesful 80s pop duo Eurythmics, together with Annie Lennox. The duo split in the early 1990s and reunited for one album, Peace, and subsequent tour in 1999, as well as for two bonus tracks for the greatest hits compilation Ultimate Collection in 2005.
Even before the Eurythmics split, Stewart worked as a producer and writer with other artists; this work yielded the hit singles Don't come around here no more by Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers and Lily was here by Dutch saxophonist Candy Dulfer. Stewart has also worked on solo records by Mick Jagger, Bob Geldof and others.
His biggest solo success was 1994's album Greetings from the gutter, which spawned the hit single Heart of stone as well as Jealousy, the latter featuring Bootsy Collins.
After another album, Sly-Fi, met with only moderate success in 1998, Stewart again concentrated on soundtrack work, including the 2004 album Alfie, which he recorded with Mick Jagger.
Songfacts says: 
Recorded in Nashville at John and Martina McBride's Blackbird Studio, Dave Stewart's The Blackbird Diaries features a band of studio musicians who include guitarist Tom Bukovac, drummer Chad Cromwell, bassist Michael Rhodes, steel guitarist Dan Dugmore and pianist Mike Rojas. It was released in the summer of 2011.
 Stewart married former Bananarama member Siobhan Fahey in 1987. Fahey went on to found Shakespear's Sister some years later. Stewart and Fahey had two children and divorced in 1996.
Stewart married Dutch photogapher Anoushka Fisz in 2000. The couple have two daughters.

2) Dave Stewart is a British keyboardist and former member of Egg, Hatfield and The North, National Health and Bruford, now works with vocalist Barbara Gaskin

3) Dave Stewart is a British drummer with the group Camel

4) Dave Stewart is a British guitarist and vocalist with Steve Hillage's band <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dave+Stewart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.