Dave Byron was born on November 17, 1963 in Chicago, Illinois.  At the age of 11, Dave started playing guitar.  He took his only guitar lessons from his grade school teacher, who taught him basic chords.  At that time Dave had no guitar at home so the school allowed him to take the guitar from school home; ironically it was a classical guitar.

Within the first year of playing guitar, the school had Dave performing at assembly halls that held 300 -500 people.  Dave then started experiencing on his own advanced chord progressions which took his grade school teacher by surprise.  What contributed to Dave’s advanced ability to learn chord progressions came from his dad, who would play classical music at home. 

At the age of twelve, Dave’s dad bought him his first electric guitar.  One year later his dad, being so impressed with Dave’s playing that he bought him a Les Paul guitar.

Dave took no other guitar lessons after grade school, he studied on his own, teaching himself how to read and write music.  He would spend up to 8 hours a day practicing from albums and teaching himself.

At the age of 14, Dave joined his 1st band and they played at The American Indian Center in Chicago and won 1st place.

At 16, Dave purchased his 1st acoustic guitar and began teaching himself finger picking.  Within less than a year, Dave developed on his own, the tremolo technique that flamenco guitar players use.  On the advice of a friend’s dad, who watched Dave play and said he has the technique of Segovia, suggested that Dave purchase a classical guitar.

At 18, Dave purchases his 1st classical guitar.  At this time Dave has heard Al DiMeola play and knew that was the style he wanted to challenge himself to learn and master.  Within 6 months, Dave had successfully mastered the alternate picking technique and offers to join bands pour in.


In 1982, Dave joins the band, Exit, they play original songs and Rush covers; this band plays the Chicago area.

In 1987, Dave joins the band, Blue Ox, they are a top 40’s band.  Dave had 2 weeks to learn 40 songs and be ready to play 6 nights a week, 5 -6 sets a night, all while working a full-time job.  Dave tours with this band full-time playing venues which included the Holiday Star Theatre.  While at the Holiday Star Theatre the band, Cameo, were also playing and their guitar playing said to Dave, how amazed he was to see Dave play with speed, accuracy, and with a strong sense of melody.

In 1998, Dave joins heavy metal band Shadowlord.  They play cover songs by Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, Black Sabbath and originals.

In 1999, Shadowlord released their self-titled album, and it makes the European charts.  Dave gets married and appoints his wife as his manager.

In 2000, Dave forms his own heavy metal band Legend.  They play Dio, Yngwie, Ozzy, Savatage and originals.  Dave also barks upon his solo career, releasing his debut album, Passionate Fire, which is a Spanish & Flamenco instrumental CD.  Borders Books & Music book Dave to perform at various store locations throughout Illinois.

In 2001, Dave Byron’s Legend releases their 1st album and brings the house down with their CD release party at the PC Lounge in Bolingbrook, packing the club for one awesome night of pure metal.  Dave also releases his 2nd solo album, Autumn, which is a New Age style with a Classical flare.  In this same year Dave performs on Royal Caribbean’s, Voyager of the Seas, talent show and packs in 2500 people for his acoustic guitar performance.  Borders Books & Music continue to book Dave.

In 2003, Dave Byron’s Legend, performs benefit shows at the Leo’s in Romeoville and the PC Lounge in Bolingbrook.  Dave also releases his 3rd solo album, Tropical; this CD is a Jazz style of instrumental music which Dave incorporates the Roland GR33 guitar synthesizer.  In May of 2003, Dave has the honor to perform for Paul Henry (a former student of Andres Segovia), who said, he has the gift of music.  Paul Henry is on the faculty at the Chicago Musical College of Roosevelt University.  Borders Books & Music continue to book Dave adding Indiana locations.

In 2004, Dave releases his 4th solo album, Forgotten Path; this CD is an ambient melodic rock style.  Dave also performs and conducts a seminar for the Conference of Self Employment, hosted by North Central College in Naperville, IL.  Borders Books & Music continue to book Dave adding Wisconsin locations.

In November of 2005, Dave performs a solo show at the Barrington Library in Barrington, IL.  The room is set for 125 people; however, 175 people show up for his performance and extra chairs are rushed in to accommodate all the guests.  Dave receives a standing ovation and cheers for an encore performance.

In 2006, Dave performs on the Italian Cruise Ship, Costa Mediterranea’s, talent show packing the theatre for his performance and receives a standing ovation.  Dave also releases his 5th solo album, Blues & Ballads, which is a blues style of instrumental music.  Dave performs at the Grand Opening for Seattle’s Best coffee at the Borders Books & Music in Oak Park. Dave releases his 5th solo album, Blues & Ballads; this CD is a Blues style of instrumental music.

In 2007, Dave performs at Addison Community Days Festival and for NATO in Belgium. Dave releases his 6th and 7th solo albums; Melia is a Latin style Bossa Nova Jazz CD and Entrance To Paradise is a relaxation CD with nature sounds of waterfalls and chirping birds.



In 2008, Dave releases his 8th CD; Uno, is a Latin Fusion Rock style of music.  Par-A-Dice Casino in East Peoria, IL find Dave’s music on the internet and book him 3 performances for the guests of the casino.  Riding For A Cure, also find Dave’s music on the internet and book him to perform for their cancer research fund raiser.

Dave performs approximately 150 shows a year which include, café’s, clubs, wedding ceremonies/receptions, private parties, colleges, corporate events, retirement parties, dinner parties, cocktails and has sold thousands of CD’s.  

Dave Byron’s music is registered with BMI and is copy written with The Library of Congress Copyright Office. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dave+Byron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.