David Pack (b. July 15, 1952), is an American musician. He is notable for his work with the 1970's band Ambrosia.

David Pack was co-founder, guitarist and main vocalist for the band Ambrosia. Noted hits from the band written by Pack include "Biggest Part Of Me" (1980), "You're The Only Woman" (1980), "How Much I Feel" (1978), as well as co-writer on one of their first hits, "Holdin' On To Yesterday" (1975). He also worked as a producer with many famous musicians in the 1980s, such as James Ingram and Michael McDonald.

David Pack guested on lead vocals on the song "Ground Zero" for Kansas founder Kerry Livgren's 1980 solo album, Seeds of Change. He then performed on Kansas's Vinyl Confessions album in 1982. He would later contribute guest lead vocals on the track "Shine On" off of the album It's A Jungle Out There! by Mastedon, one of two Mastedon albums written and produced by former Kansas lead singer John Elefante and his brother Dino Elefante. Pack's 1985 solo album "Anywhere You Go" spawned the song "Prove Me Wrong" which appeared on the soundtrack of the 1985 film White Nights (film) starring Gregory Hines & Mikhail Baryshnikov. He co-wrote two songs ("The Three of Me" and "I'm Talkin' to You"), sang and played guitar on Alan Parsons' 1993 album, Try Anything Once, and sang and played guitar on the song "You Can Run" on Parsons' 2004 album, A Valid Path (Ambrosia's first album was produced by Alan Parsons, who served as producer for their second; all four members of Ambrosia played on the first Alan Parsons Project album, Tales of Mystery and Imagination.) Pack's 2005 solo album, The Secret of Movin' On included collaborative efforts from musical legends such as Journey's Steve Perry, Heart's Ann Wilson and Timothy B. Schmit from the Eagles. Steve Perry makes his first appearance in mainstream adult contemporary rock in over eight years on the album. The album includes remakes of 2 of his biggest hits with Ambrosia, "Biggest Part Of Me" and "You're The Only Woman". Recently, Pack has been touring with Flannel, with whom he co-wrote and produced the album "Cindysbeentrippin.com". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/David+Pack">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.