David Shankle doesn’t require any introduction in the metal scene. Everybody will remember him as the legendary guitarist of the loudest band on earth, Manowar, in which he was a member from 1988 to 1995. During those years, David’s virtuosic high-speed guitar playing and breathtaking solos thrilled Manowar fans around the world. Furthermore, it was David who co-wrote with Joey DeMaio a song that has since become one of the biggest Manowar classics—“Master Of The Wind”—released on the gold-awarded album The Triumph Of Steel. David Shankle and Manowar formed an excellent liaison, and it is not surprising that leaving Manowar was one of the hardest decisions in David’s life. Contrary to many of his competitors in the music scene, however, David felt there was more to achieve, more to learn, so he went to Roosevelt Music University in Chicago to study jazz and classical guitar. Now, he is regarded as one of the best guitarists in his field, and has more than a hundred students.

A hot project needs the right timing and the perfect combination of people—this became the case when David Shankle formed his new band, the David Shankle Group (DSG). One of the most important partners for David in this new venture was his long-time friend Trace Edward Zaber. David and Trace have known each other for many years and collaborated on numerous projects. 

The other members joining DSG for the 2003 debut album  "Ashes to Ashes" are Brian Gordon on bass, who played in renowned classical and jazz festivals in Europe and North America before his 20th birthday; Eddy “Shreddy” Bethishou, a true genius on keyboards, hitting the keys in breathtaking speed and competing with David on playing the fastest riffs; and Eddie Foltz, who, as legend tells us, was born with drumsticks firmly in hand.

In 2007 the second album "Hellborn" was released. Joining David on "Hellborn" are three handpicked musicians, each with his own unique skills. On lead vocals, Dennis Hirschauer brings a strong, dynamic power metal sound and well-written lyrics to the fold. Drummer Brad Sabathne provides a fast and brutal double bass assault combined with the heart of a true rock and metal drummer. Bassist Jeff Kylloe has played with neoclassical guitarist George Bellas and has the technical prowess and speed to complement the fast-paced music that DSG is known for.

Bandmembers:

2003 - Ashes To Ashes
--------------------------------
    David Shankle - Guitar
    Trace Edward Zaber - Vocals
    Brian Gordon - Bass
    Eddy “Shreddy” Bethishou - Keyboards
    Eddie Foltz - Drums

2007 - Hellborn
----------------------
    David Shankle - Guitar
    Dennis Hirschauer - Vocals
    Brad Sabathne - Drums
    Jeff Kylloe - Bass

    Guests contributing guitar solos:
        TD Clark, Joe Stump, Michael Angelo Batio <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/David+Shankle+Group">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.