David Warren Ellefson (born November 12, 1964 in Jackson, Minnesota) is a bass guitar player who is best known as one of the founding members of American thrash metal band Megadeth. He currently resides in Scottsdale, Arizona. He is also currently a member of Temple of Brutality, F5, Killing Machine, but as of 2010 he has rejoined and made Megadeth his top priority.

Early life

Ellefson started to play bass guitar because of its presence in heavy rock music. He then became an accomplished rhythm guitarist and honed his songwriting skills while leading several of his own bands through the club scene of North America's Midwest region.

The Megadeth years (1983-2002, 2010-present)

Other than vocalist and primary lyricist Dave Mustaine, Ellefson was the only constant member of Megadeth from the time of their establishment in 1983 to the group's dissolution in 2002 (Mustaine subsequently reformed Megadeth but without Ellefson). To differentiate between the two Davids, Mustaine referred to Ellefson as "Dave Junior", which was often shortened to "Junior". He appeared on every album and tour from 1985's thrash record Killing Is My Business... And Business Is Good! up until 2002's Rude Awakening. Ellefson's original playing style involved using his fingers, however, as Megadeth progressed and the music became more complex, he tended to prefer playing with a pick/plectrum. Towards the end of his Megadeth career, Ellefson was not getting some of his material played for the band, which angered him. Ellefson was credited with some Megadeth songs, including "Family Tree" from 1994's Youthanasia (in the 2004 remastered collection of the CD however, the track is credited to Mustaine, Ellefson, Friedman, Menza, but Dave Mustaine credited the Rust in Peace-era line-up with the entire Youthanasia album as a tribute to the band's success at the time of the record's initial release).

On February 8th, 2010, Ellefson was welcomed back into Megadeth.


Feud with Mustaine

Mustaine resurrected Megadeth in 2004 to record the album The System has Failed, though Ellefson and every other former band member with the exception of Chris Poland (lead guitarist from the Killing is My Business-Peace Sells era) declined to partake in the recording process. Ellefson and Mustaine had a severe disagreement over royalties and rights to Megadeth's name and back catalog resulting in Ellefson filing an unsuccessful lawsuit. Though the two once enjoyed a close friendship, considerable animosity developed between Ellefson and Mustaine to the point that on Ellefson's website, Megadeth was not mentioned in his biography, only in the discography.

In a mid-2005 podcast, Ellefson did not mention his past with Megadeth at all, instead concentrating on discussing his current projects. Mustaine felt Ellefson was unfairly using the Megadeth name when advertising for an amplifier for Peavey. On Blabbermouth.net, Mustaine claims to have had dinner with Ellefson at Christmas in 2005 to talk things through; they are on good terms today as Mustaine states they have spoken on the phone numerous times. It should also be noted that as of late, Ellefson has stated (also on Blabbermouth.net) that if Mustaine were to call him tomorrow and ask him to rejoin the band, he would say yes.This has culminated in Ellefson rejoining Megadeth.


Post Megadeth Career (2003-2010)

Ellefson formed F5 following Megadeth's 2002 disbandment. The band features Ellefson on bass, Dale Steele on vocals, Steve Conley on lead guitar, John Davis on rhythm guitar and Jimmy DeGrasso on drums. Their first album, "A Drug for all Seasons" was released in 2005. F5 appeared in support for Disturbed in February 2006 and toured the American Mid-West in the summer of 2006. Ellefson also appeared on the new Killing Machine record "Metalmorphosis" in 2006 alongside former Megadeth drummer Jimmy DeGrasso and has also been working with Temple of Brutality. Ellefson is currently a member of the melodic power metal band Avian which features singer Lance King. He commented in an interview with Alternative-Zine.com that "Megadeth was really just a starting point for me, creatively"[6]

David currently works for Peavey Electronics Corporation as an artist relations representative.

Ellefson played five tracks for the Soulfly album Prophecy and also played on one track on Dark Ages.

He has recently worked with underground emcee/Record producer Necro for his album entitled Death Rap.

Ellefson is also a member of a tribute band called HAIL!. Ellefson, Jimmy DeGrasso (Mike Portnoy currently drumming for them 2010), Tim Ripper Owens and Andreas Kisser from Sepultura formed the band in late 2008.

David participated in the Christmas Rock project Northern Light Orchestra, he performed bass on many of the 17 cuts produced by rock drummer Ken Mary and also at the live show Christmas in April Orpheum Theatre, Phoenix, Arizona.

As of February 8th, 2010 David Ellefson rejoined Megadeth after 8 years. He states in an interview for Classic Rock that Megadeth drummer Shawn Drover contacted him via text and told him that "if ever there was a time for you and Dave to talk, now is it." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/David+Ellefson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.