There is more than one artist by the name of David Oliver:
1) an American soul singer best known for the single "MS" as well as his composition "Friends & Strangers"
2) an Irish musician from Tyrone, Ireland, and leader of the eight-piece band Barba Papa

1) David Oliver (born January 8, 1942, in Orange County, Florida; died June 6, 1982) was a soul singer best known for the single "MS" as well as his composition "Friends & Strangers" which was covered by Ronnie Laws in 1977.

After a stint in the Air Force Oliver relocated to Los Angelesin 1967 and joined a group called Five Days & Three Nights. There were offered a contract with Motown Records but after contract negotiations fell through they disbanded. In 1972, he provided background vocals on Redbone's Already Here album. Signed to the Mercury Records in 1977, Oliver would record four albums with Wayne Henderson of The Crusaders on proudction. In 1978 his song "MS" would chart at number thirteen on the Soul Singles charts.

2) David Oliver is a musician from Tyrone, Ireland and also the  leader of the eight-piece Superband Barba Papa. The band name comes from the French term for ‘Cotton candy’ or ‘Candy Floss’ – a term very befitting of the bearded Oliver himself. The eight-piece ensemble has a collective musical knowledge and experience that spans two decades, and has seen each individual member travel the world performing with some of the biggest names in popular entertainment.

Formed early in 200, Barba Papa presently focus on corporate work, with a view to eventually branching out and creating their own musical landscapes. Their sound is as big as the eclectic musicians and personalities within the band. They specialise in re-creating the sounds from the various golden genres of popular music. A night with Barba Papa is a celebration of classic Motown and Stax, the Show band era and the classic West Coast flavoured Rock and Country music of the past four decades. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/David+Oliver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.