Dawndeath Incinerator is a collaboration of musicians based out of New York and Salt Lake City.  Members include Vomucus Dawndeath (formerly Corpsegrinder Loadz until name was taken up by others), Indur Dawndeath (formerly Spider) and Ben Hate (formerly Sik Demoniac) all previous members of Decrepit Corpse a New York based Thrash metal Band (1984-1996).  The line-up was infused with the technilogical terror of Sinibyte (Rog/Edgey/Deep Fried Clams/Dysfunctional Sound Alliance).  The project incorporated a multi-disciplined approach and incorporation of many different genres to include metal, thrash, grind, death, techno, ambience and hardcore something some listeners found too chaotic to follow.  In this approach Dawndeath Incinerator attempted to provide a departure from the traditional and sometimes stagnant approach some bands have fettered themselves in by become dross.  The project has been on hold for some 6 years but recent relocation of band co-founder Vomucus Dawndeath has allowed for re-awakening of the project.  

The first release of Dawndeath Incinerator was issued by Stench Records under the title of "Tomb of Corporeal Butchery" in 1999.  An extended release under the same name was released two years later with additional tracks.  The line-up consists of Vomucus Dawndeath (Bass, Vocals), Indur Dawndeath (Lead Guitar) Sinibyte (Drums/electronic manipulation), Ben Hate (Vocals).  A guest appearance on "Campaign in Hell" was performed by Decapitor Daubarus (formerly Decrepit Corpse) on guiters;  a song which was the first track ever written by the original members of Decrepit Corpse played under the band name Sanguinary Tyrant.  Two tracks released under the Dawndeath Incinerator project (Sanguinary Tyrant and Campaign in Hell) were performed as a tribute to Decrepit Corpse but have caused problems with former members.  This approach has been unfortunately abandoned.  

Vomucus Dawndeath is a former submarine nuclear operator having served in the first Persian Gulf War.  He holds a BS in Nuclear Engineering; worked in the U.S. chemical weapons program for 6 years and is a Certified Hazardous Materials Manager (CHMM). Currently he serves in the U.S. Army National Guard. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dawndeath+Incinerator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.