There are several groups going by the name Dawn:
1) a melodic black metal band from Sweden;
2) a gothic metal band from Ireland;
3) a US pop group from the 70s featuring Tony Orlando;
4) a goth-hard rock band from Belgrade, Serbia;
5) a progressive rock band from Switzerland;
6) An art-thrash punk band from Nashville, TN, USA;
7) a death metal band from Germany;
8) a Finnish chiptune musician;
9) a heavy/power metal band from the UK;
10) a post-rock band from Okinawa, Japan;
11) a Finnish pop-rock boy-band.
12) a Korean solo artist.
13) a doom band from Sydney, Australia


Dawn, melodic black metal band from Sweden:
The history of Dawn goes back to 1990 when founder and guitarist Fredrik Söderberg left his former band, Obduracy. (Even earlier than that, back in 1985-1986, Fredrik also was a member of CRANIUM, who later changed their name to LEGION). Hailing from Linköping, Sweden and therefore being close friends with death metal cult band SEANCE, it was not long before Patrik Jensen (today in The Haunted and Witchery) recommended  a new guitarist to Fredrik: Andreas Fullmestad (formerly in MORGUE). Fredrik and Andreas got together and the unit was completed by drummer Karsten Larsson and bassist Dennis Karlsson (both ex-MORTIFIED members). The final addition to this early Dawn line-up was Henke Forss (FUNERAL FEAST, IN FLAMES), providing the band with death growls from hell.

For more information, see http://www.dawnband.com


Dawn, Gothic Metal band from Ireland
The current line-up includes: Faye Crawford (vocals), Ian Harper (guitar), Matt Woods (guitar), Robert Bamford (bass) and Niall McGuinness (drums). The band is influenced by bands such as The Gathering, Iced Earth, Paradise Lost, and Alice In Chains.

For more information, see http://www.myspace.com/dawnonline



Dawn (aka Tony Orlando and Dawn), US pop group

Tony Orlando and Dawn was a pop music group that was very popular in the 1970s in the US and UK. They had two #1 hits with "Knock Three Times" and "Tie a Yellow Ribbon 'Round the Ole Oak Tree," and a US television variety show between 1974-1976. Singer Telma Hopkins later went on to a succesful television career.

For more information, see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tony_Orlando_and_Dawn



Dawn, Goth-Hard Rock band from Belgrade, Serbia  
Band came to life in the summer of 2006. Founding members are Ilija who was at first on bass guitar before switching to vocals and Brace Zenith on lead guitar and vocals.

The original lineup consisted of Urosh (vocals), Brace (guitar), Tosha(guitar), Ilija (bass) and Marko (drums).

Following year, band saw numerous lineup changes. First one to leave was Urosh, and soon followed Tosha. In the spring of 2007 Jelena was recruited on bass guitar while ilija switched to vocals. Last one to join the band was Veljko, filling the place of second guitarist. The band is influenced mostly by The Sisters Of Mercy, but also has influence from Guns N' Roses, Alice in Chains, Joy Division, Mizar, Fields of the Nephilim, Diary of Dreams, Nick Cave...

For more information, see www.myspace.com/visdawn

Dawn, Progressive Rock band from Switzerland
Dawn creates its own music with a vintage sound, inspired by great british bands.

Between 2005 and 2006, Dawn played several live performances: opening band for Kansas and Fish, "Montreux Prog Nights" and Progsol festivals.

Recorded in 2007, Loneliness is the first official record of Dawn. The album is about life: dawn and dusk; ups and downs. This record is well balanced with short tracks, like "Dusk" and "Loneliness", as well as longer ones like "The Story of Nobody". Building on its favourite "vintage sound" (mellotron, old Korg ...), the band has found a style of its own, with clear melody, complex rhythms, moods....

Official Website: http://dawnprog.com/
MySpace site: http://www.myspace.com/dawnprog

Dawn, death metal band
Relentless & brutal Death Metal from Germany. Influences from mainly US bands like SUFFOCATION, DEICIDE & MONSTROSITY. Formed in 1990, now - split up. 

http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=8408

Dawn, Finnish pop-rock boy band
http://www.myspace.com/dawnbandfi


Dawn, Doom band
Sydney, Australia 
https://dawn-doomcoven.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.