Dawn of Oblivion was formed in 1992 by singer/guitarplayer Victor Fradera and guitar/keyboard player Per Broberg.

Two drum machine demos and no gigs later a bass playing youngster by the name of Jesper Rydberg and a dazzling hunk of a drummer, Andreas Båge, was recruited to make the band sound more like... a band. Two demos, a few gigs and a talent show later DOO earned their first record deal and recorded the already classic album "A Fervent Prayer". Shortly after the release of the album, in 1994, the band split up due to "difference of opinions". Victor then reformed Dawn of Oblivion and recruited American guitarist Jimmy Lee Lou, bassplayer Jonas Nilsson and again, the dazzling hunk of a drummer, Andreas. Two demos, some gigs and a another record deal later, DOO again parked their buts in the studio, this time to record the 1997 "Yorick" album. After some gig´n and touring , a few child births, divorces and what not , DOO felt it was time to start recording again, so in late 1998, in preparation for their third full length album, they began recordings of the four track EP "Haunted". Shortly before the release of Haunted, guitarist Jimmy informed his fellow band members that he intends to leave the band, Jim wanted to spend more time with his family and other music projects.

DOO hold some auditions to recruit a new guitar player, and after only a month, almost out of the blue, a very potent stallion of a man , Stefan Rosqvist, shows up for rehearsal. Stefan joins the band and the line up is again complete. After much rehearsal DOO embarks on a short tour of Sweden to grind the rock´n roll lifestyle into the brains and bones of the members, all this in preparation for the long and painful process of writing and recording Dawn of Oblivions third full length masterpiece "Mepisto´s Appealing". Recordings started in January 2000 and ended in March 2001.
Stay tuned, more is to come......

http://www.dawnofoblivion.com/1024/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dawn+of+Oblivion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.