There is more than one artist with this name, including:
1) Daylight is an American alt-rock band from Doylestown, PA, that in 2015 changed its name to Superheaven. 
2) Daylight is a Spanish pop punk band from Barcelona. 
3) Daylight is a German emocore band. 
4) Daylight is a Dutch rock band from the Netherlands. 
5)  Daylight is a Korean modern rock singer. 
6)  Daylight is a project by synthdance artist Humphrey Robertson. 
7) Daylight is a Latvian band formed in 1999 in the city of Sigulda. 
8) Daylight was a British folk rock formed in 1971 that featured Chrissie Quayle and Mike Silver. 

1) Daylight is an American alt-rock band from Doylestown, PA, that in 2015 changed its name to Superheaven. Channeling alternative bands from the 90s, punk bands from the 80s and adding their own current attitude, Daylight comes at you with catchy riffs and hooks that will make you want to scream out every word. Pennsylvania keeps churning out amazing young bands and Daylight can be added to the top of the list. Their debut full length Jar LP was released April of 2013.
Daylight are:
Taylor Madison - Guitar / Vocals
Jake Clarke - Guitar / Vocals
Joe Kane - Bass
Zack Robbins - Drums
Discography:
Jar LP released on Run For Cover Records, April 2013
The Difference In Good and Bad Dreams EP released on Run For Cover Records, January 2012
Run For Cover Acoustic Series #3 EP released on Run For Cover Records, May 2011
Dispirit EP released on Six Feet Under Records, July 2010
Sinking EP released on Get This Right Records, July 2009
Demo EP self released, September 2008
http://daylightpa.com/
http://daylightpa.bandcamp.com/

2) Daylight is a Spanish pop punk band from Barcelona. They've released two albums, "Party Assault" and "2 Cool 4 School", an EP and an early demo.
Daylight began in march 2004, when Olek, Will and Wojtek fortunately meet Victor , an experienced drummer, for the very first time.
A year and a half later, they record their first EP called “Daylight”, that contains three songs. It is the beginning of a new period of concerts in which Daylight shared the stage with prestigious national bands like The Unfinished Sympathy and NoWayOut and even some international bands like MXPX or Reel Big Fish among others.
In 2008 they decided to edit their first LP together with Txosse, from Wheel Sound, a hystorical and prestigious studio in Catalonia's punk rock scene. Later on, Eddy Schreyer from Oasis Mastering Studios (CA) produced the master of the album, wich was entitled "Party Assault". This same year provided them a tight schedule of concerts. During April they performed an exclusive Spanish tour all around the country.
The album, and the video-clip for "The One for You", achieved some positive reviews and brought them the chance to appear in some music televisions such as MTV Spain or SOL Música. This good acceptance by the media brought them many interviews and allowed them to appear in some relevant newspapers like La Vanguardia or Avui, and some important magazines like RockZone and Loka Magazine.
Their second CD, 2 Cool 4 School, was released on March 2011, with Summer Season being the first single and My Seventeen the second, released the following year. 2012 Also seen the stard of an Euro tour and a couple shows in China.
http://www.myspace.com/daylight

3) Daylight is a German emocore band. It was formed by Michael and Markus (Vocals), Sascha and Cem (Guitars), Marc (Bass) and Fabian (Drums). This musical cooperation harmonised absolutely perfect and from the beginning the band wrote their own songs.
In 1998 Daylight released their first demo tape (Our Sunshine) that sold very well but a short time later Marc and Cem decided to leave the band. This was just the beginning of several line-up changes to follow. A replacement was found very fast and Albi (Guitar) and Olli (Bass) joined the band. This was one of the most important steps in the band history of Daylight. With the new members a more melodic impact was added to the music and a second demo tape (When Silence Can Be Heard) was released.
In 1999 the first mini CD (When Great People Fall) was released on Incendiary Records and Olli was replaced by Daniel (Bass). Daylight played a lot of shows to promote the release and supported bands like Boy Sets Fire, As Friends Rust, Botch or Trial. The debut CD was sold out really soon.
After the success in 1999 the band tried to record their debut album in 2000 with a befriended sound engineer. The result was everything but satisfying. The sound was awful and the wrong decisions have been made for the track listing. The whole recording process was a mess and this led to conflicts and frustration within the band. The result was the departure of Daniel and personal disputes between some of the other members. Even if Daylight continued to rehearse, the individual members put their main focus on other projects. The band was about to split up.
In 2001 Alan (Bass) joined one of the rare Daylight rehearsals and with his positive charism he brought new energy into the band. The guys wrote new song material and decided to give the recording of the debut album another try. With 80 % finished songs, endless ideas and new motivation, Daylight entered a professional recording studio in 2002. The time in the studio welded all the members back together and created an unbelievable harmony. The result was a powerful and innovative finished album (Vague Pictures of Amazing Moments). The Album was released by Incendiary Records and got phenomenal magazine reviews.
Daylight played lots of shows and released another mini CD (The Dead End Kids EP) along with the repress of the debut Album in 2003. Since then the band played a few shows from time to time. Another line-up change followed and Fabian was replaced by Alex (Drums). The next two members (Michael and Alan) are about to leave Daylight to concentrate on their other band. The outstanding members have written a lot of awesome songs and are currently looking for a new singer and a bass player to come back in 2006 with a new album and a lot of energy driven shows.

4)  Daylight is a Dutch rock band from the Netherlands. The band brings a unique pop/rock meets britrock music style which relies heavy on catchy riffs and multivocals. Based in Amsterdam the band is made up of 4 guys with different musical preferences yet they find a great way of melting their influences into a fresh and unique sound. Think: Oasis, U2, Manics, Coldplay sown together with a healthy dose of indie rock&roll.
Daylight are:
Machiel Hamaker - bass, vocals
Matthijs Ypenburg - guitar, vocals
Bart van Kampen - guitar, vocals
Pascal van Baren - drums

5) Daylight is a Korean modern rock singer.
Name: Yeon-kyeong Kang, 강연경
Birthday: March 22, 1982
Albums: "Daylight" (April 1, 2004)

6) Daylight  is a project by Humphrey Robertson, one of the most famous synthdance artists and producers. 

7) Daylight  is a Latvian band formed in year 1999 in the city of Sigulda. 
Band members: 
Kristaps Rūķītis (vocal)
Jānis Reselis (sax)
Pēteris Jonins (drums)
Uldis Veigulis (bass) 

8) Daylight was a British folk rock formed in 1971 that featured Chrissie Quayle and Mike Silver. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daylight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.