There several artists with the name Daz:

1) Daz (also know as Daz Dillinger), formerly known as Dat Nigga Daz, (born Delmar Arnaud on May 25, 1973 in Long Beach, California), is an African American hip hop producer and rapper mostly known for his work with Death Row Records at the height of West Coast rap's popularity.

He released his first album Dogg Food with Kurupt as Tha Dogg Pound which went double platinum continuing Death Row's force as the most successful hip hop label.  In 1998 he released his first solo-offering, Retaliation, Revenge & Get Back, under the artist name Daz Dillinger, the name Dillinger being an homage to the 1930s outlaw John Dillinger. Around late 1999, Daz left the crumbling Death Row Records and started his own imprint D.P.G. Recordz & Gangsta Advisory Records. In 2000, Daz put out his first independent solo record titled R.A.W.. The albums guest appearances include Tray Deee, Kurupt, Soopafly, Lil' C-Style, Slip Capone, Mac Shawn, Tha Mactress, LaToiya Williams and Mark Morrison. In 2002, Daz and his longtime friend Kurupt parted ways when Kurupt signed a deal with Suge Knight to become the Vice President of Death Row Records. Daz along with Snoop Dogg and other D.P.G. members did not take the news lightly and decided to cut all ties with Kurupt. For almost three years Daz and Kurupt remained separate, with Daz speaking of the D.P.G. never forgiving him for what they viewed as him turning his back on the gang. It wasn't until April 1, 2005 that Kurupt reached out and sent a message to Daz and Snoop, saying he would no longer talk bad about them and that he hoped things could be resolved. Daz and Snoop and the rest of the D.P.G. accepted to take Kurupt back, and said they planned to start making music again. Tha Dogg Pound was now back together and 7 months later they released "Dillinger & Gotti II: Tha Saga Continuez", as well as working on many upcoming projects to be released in late 2006. 

2) Daz is a German eurodance act produced by B. Paul, F. Fischer and Frankies Beathouse. The act was fronted by Darren de Hayes. He recorded the hits What Do I Need? and Everybody's Dancing.

3) Daz is a collective from Guadalajara mexico, a mixture of lounge and general alternative.

4) Daz is a rapper based in Belfast, originally from South Africa. He also has produced a play called "Streetwise" which took place in the "Queens Film Theatre" of Belfast. He claims to be inspired by NaS' album "Hip-Hop is Dead" and some of his lyrics are based on more personal issues than rappers would usually associate with as he claims not to be as influenced by the guns and drug culture that many of today's rap acts would talk about.

5) Daz is a rapper from Ostrava, Czech republic.He is a member of group Ye-den a 1. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Daz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.