De Jeugd van Tegenwoordig ("Today's Youth") is a hip-hop group formed in Amsterdam, The Netherlands in 2005.

The group is a 4-piece made up of Vieze Fur a.k.a. Vieze Freddie (Freddie Tratlehner), P. Fabergé (Pepijn Lanen) a.k.a. Faberyayo, Willie Wartaal a.k.a. WiWa (Ollicio Locadia) and 'de Neger des Heils' (Bas Bron, Majoor Vloshard, Bastian, Seymour Bits). 

They are known most notably for their chart-topping single Watskeburt?!, which then became Dutch slang for "what's up?!". In 2005 they released their debut album named Parels voor de Zwijnen (Pearls before Swine), featuring raps containing rather esoteric lyrics full of (partially made up) street language. With comical lyrics and an attitude telling they do not take themselves too seriously, they gained a unique position in the Dutch rap scene. Their main themes are alcohol, sex and drugs. All tracks on the group's debut album Parels voor de Zwijnen were produced by Bas Bron.

Subsequent single releases include Voorjekijkendoorlopen ("Lookinfrontofyoukeeponwalking") and the Christmas-themed Ho Ho Ho (with Katja Schuurman).

In July 2006, the group was featured on the song Poes in de Playboy of the Dutch reggae/ska band Luie Hond. In May 2007, they released the single Shenkie, for which a video clip contest was issued. The winning video can be seen here. Both singles were never released on album.

Their second album, titled De Machine, was released on April 25, 2008, preceded by the single Hollereer on April 4. The album spawned six more singles: Wopwopwop (de tentbakkers), Datvindjeleukhe ("Youthinkthat'sniceuh"), Applaus, Buma in Mijn Zak, Bertje vs Yayo and Deze Donkere Jongen Komt Zo Hard.

On November 26th 2010 their third album was released: "De Lachende Derde" (The laughing third). The first single of this album was 'Sterrenstof' (Stardust)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/De+Jeugd+van+Tegenwoordig">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.