The musical/lyrical concept hath it's birthday under the season of autumn with a thematic within the black/folk context under the name of Long Winter onto the embodyment of two lone souls(Julio Fachini & Clóvis Roman) working on their musical opus in a passive form when it is found another dying soul (Kleber Fainer) and on it stalks the union of the deepest projects/ideias inside the funeral/doom context basically keeping all the initial ideia and embodying it, balancing it with the arrival of the new dramatic/tragic conception. From the first and original band embodyment only remains until the present era Kleber Fainer, band’s heart, mind and soul, mentor and the remanescent band founder. 

The sonority is based on a classic/arcane and symphonic atmospheres, ultra romantic melodies, extreme beauty ambience with dark/arcane interludes. The band incorporate on it’s music black/folk metal contents working on in a very original way, the harmony is very dense evoking the echoes of autumnal vistas. The lyrical contents(written in archaic english) speaks about ultra romantic poetry, based onto pessimism and melancholic nihilistic resolutions, beauty and faded hope, overloaded inspirated on Schopenhauerian philosophy and ancient poetry in general. 

... 

Hath begun finally the first abstractal manifestations of ideia (rehersals) the yore musical/lyrical excerpts hath taken form and now effectively conceived as a real band. 

For the very first time is coming forth a clear path where shall be spread and fixed the tragic/ ultra romantic concept to all the aware and unaware souls spreading all the fundamentional ideia of the phenomenon clarifying all the the metaphysical death of all illusion mystified by nature throught the human instinct. The forthcoming years would be made of becoming all ideais into lyrical and musical compositions, framing band’s line up and opening ahead the way for the dramatic/tragic play. 

After parting ways with Julio Fachini the band has changed it’s name from Einsamkeit to De Profvndis Clamati. 

Currently the band is working on it's new ep/mcd entitled "In Between Passionate Minnuendos" and now is being part of FunerART Records from Chile, releasing it by FunerART and also into independent way and releasing a Doom Metal Compilation..
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/De+Profvndis+Clamati">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.