De Staat is a Dutch alternative rock band from Nijmegen, The Netherlands, formed in 2006. The band, fronted by songwriter, singer, guitarist and producer, Torre Florim, released four albums: Waiting For Evolution (2009), Machinery (2011), I_Con (2013) and O (2016). 

De Staat have been described by SonicAbuse as "genre-hopping Gremlins of the first order, who take in the eclectic, grand slamming funk of Beck, the dance grooves of Kelis’ Milkshake, the horny soul of QOTSA (...) and the lost, gothic romanticism of Nick Cave often within the same song."

The band's sound gradually evolved from rather heavy, riff-based 'desert rock' in the vein of Queens Of The Stone Age and Kyuss to a more eclectic 'heavy disco' sound with funky synthesizers and bouncing melodies. Typical for this shift in sound is 2014's Vinticious Versions EP, on which - if you wish - the 'new De Staat' interprets songs of the 'old De Staat'. 

November 2021 saw the first release of a possible series of EP's based around the three colors red, yellow and blue. Each color represents the main vibe of a track. Red stands for dark and hard, yellow stands for light-footed, and blue stands for melancholic. De Staat frontman Torre Florim explained that future song releases would fit these vibes and possibly become a series of EP's instead of an album. 

Line-up:
Torre Florim - vocals, guitar
Vedran Mircetic - guitar
Jop van Summeren - bass, vocals 
Rocco Bell - percussion, keyboards, vocals
Tim van Delft – drums

BAND HISTORY

De Staat debuted in 2009 with Wait for Evolution and shortly thereafter performed on all major Dutch stages and festivals such as Lowlands and Pinkpop, and internationally at Sziget and Glastonbury. The album was awarded various prizes, and in 2011 and 2012 the band received a 3FM Award for Best Alternative Act. Second album Machinery was released in 2011. Once again, De Staat toured a large number of European venues and festivals, this time with an extra element added to their live shows: a huge, specially built machine. In 2013 they released I_CON, which was awarded an Edison, Holland’s most prestigious music prize. Late 2013 they played three packed out riotous shows at the Black Heart in London. 

www.destaat.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/De+Staat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.