Dead Beyond Buried were formed in Essex during 1996 and had gigged with bands like Stampin Ground and Enmity at the time.  During a show in 1998 Paul Ryan and Niall (formerly of Cacophonus Records) contacted DBB to put an EP on tape which was recorded in the Enmity drummers home studio.  The band, under the name 'Fallen' at the time recorded a 4 track EP entitled 'Facefucker'

A couple of years later vocalist Oli Marchant had major back surgery and the rest of the band during this 18 month period created a batch of songs, most of which were scrapped.  DBB probably have over 100 songs if they'd kept them all!

After recording a few demos in their local rehearsal and recording studio, Musictek, they decided to compile an album, for no reason but to document their songs, and Condemned To Misery was birthed from this in four days flat.  Mixed and mastered by drummer John Biscomb.

After discovering Myspace around 2004-ish and realising its power the band put their music up and shortly after this were contacted by Siege of Amida Records.  DBB ended up being SOAR's third signing after Chaos Blood and Rose Funeral.

The band went on to release Condemnded To Misery via SOAR and recieved major magazine press and a string of excellent reviews, a 9/10 in Metal Hammer and more in Terrorizer, Zero Tolerance etc.

DBB had their fist UK tour with Zyklon and Blood Tsunami and have also toured with Dark Funeral and Endstille.

DBB opened the stage for Obituary at the underworld for the one off release show for Obituary's new album 'The Executioners Return'

In 2008 DBB went on to play three European festivals, Neurotic Deathfest in Tilburg, NL alongside Hate Eternal, Suffocation, Cryptopsy, Napalm Death, Aborted and many more. They also played the beautiful Metalcamp in Tolmin, Slovenia with Opeth, Carcass, Meshuggah, Arch Enemy, Marduk and many many more.  They ended their festival stint with Obscene Extreme, a grind fest in Czech Republic with Extreme Noice Terror, Impaled Nazarene and Macabre.  They played the Obscene Extreme after show also with Splitter.

Now DBB have nearly completed material for a second album which is planned for release early-mid 2009 via SOAR.  They have also confirmed a 10 date UK tour with Misery Index in Feb 09.  More festivals will surely follow.

DBB are an old school death metal band that are only just getting started, they believe honesty and integrity are the most important factors in death metal and have worked hard for 10 years to build a stance where they are respected in the underground and beginning to see recognition on the large scale.  DBB do not support the use of triggered drums or buy on tours.  DBB maintain an old school mentality to metal.  Friends of DBB include Dawn Of Chaos, Man Must Die, Zyklon, Blood Tsunami, Ingested, Reth, Adastreia, Retrofin, Dam, Infected Disarry, Detrimentum, Theoktony, Corpsing, Ted Maul, Crepitation, Nailed, Trigger The Bloodshed, Cerebral Bore and more.  Sorry if anyone got missed.

Influences are Morbid Angel, Napalm Death, Keep Of Kalessin, Satyricon, Suffocation. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Beyond+Buried">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.