Claustrophobic, visceral, vicious, heavy, psychedelic, unpredictable these are the first adjectives that come in mind if you are trying to describe the North Italy power trio. The loud sonic assault of the band has a whole range of influences that pass through the energy of noise band like Unsane, Cherubs, Jesus Lizard, Colossamite and the psychedelic attitudes of Ash Ra Tempel, Cluster, Neurosis. Trying to go over the stagnant preconceptions of heavy music Dead Elephant speak to the Cerebral and to the Bowels including elements of doom, krautrock, noise, post-hardcore and industrial.

Born in 2004 they received major receipt over the Italy where they have collaborated with Unfortunate Miracle Records (USA - label of Helios Creed, Christpunchers and Lair of the Minotaur) for the release of the debut CD-EP called "Sing the Separation" (2005) followed by gigs (more than 30) shared with a lot of bands. The most famous are Capricorns (UK), Zu (ITA), Lair of the Minotaur (USA), Joe Lally (Fugazi - USA) ecc.

The new record, out the 18th December 2007, is called “Lowest Shared Descent” and was recorded by Maurizio Borgna @ Garage Ermetico Leumann of Turino, mixed by David Lenci @ Red House Recording of Senigallia (AN) and Mastered by Dave Harris @ Studio B Mastering of Charlotte NC – Usa. Two important collaborations on the new stuff: with Luca Mai (sax player in ZU) and Eugene Robinson (singer in Oxbow).

The album will be released in cd format through Forgotten Empire (USA), Robot Radio (Europa), Donna Bavosa (Europa) e in vinyl format (in limited coloured editions) in USA through Knvbi records and in Europa through a coproduction among Gaffer Records(FR), Cynic Lab Records (ITA), Tumorati di Dio Records (ITA), Noisecult Records (ITA) and Holidays Records (ITA).

In August 2007 drummer Flavio Panero leaves the band.

The Dead Elephant current lineup:

Enrico Tauraso - guitar, vocals;
Fulvio Grosso - bass guitar, vocals;
Sandro Serra - drums.

http://www.deadelephantband.com
www.myspace.com/thedeadelephant <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Elephant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.