After completing his music studies in Rome, Save Addario moved to London. Shortly after, he met Paul Igoe who just moved from Ireland, to continue his drumming education, the two instantly sparked up a friendship. Both wanted to create a band that was both against the flow of the mainstream, but also accessible and provoking. The search was on for the remaining members of this yet unnamed collaboration. They searched for almost a year for a bassist that would be both passionate for the music they played. Mike Enort, another music school graduate with sound engineering experience, was discovered through the Internet via an ad he had posted. He left everything behind in Italy and ventured to London to continue his musical aspirations. They looked immediately for a singer. Auditions commenced; rappers, country n’ western singers, choir girls and hundreds more tried out but nothing really worked. Eventually the guys stumbled upon an advert posted by a guy called Adam Grant, looking for a band of their ilk. An audition was arranged, and like the contenders before him the guys weren’t too hopeful of its outcome, especially when an ‘Oliver Twist’ esque fellow walked through the door. Armed without a microphone, Adam, started to improvise with the music, and within a matter of moments they knew that they had found their vocalist. Being the son of well renowned voice-over artist, Gary Martin, Adam’s vocal abilities were not to be taken lightly. In less than a year of their formation they had written their self titled EP, Deadly Circus Fire, a band name the guys felt perfect for their ensemble. Their sound is a best described as a diverse composition of the raw and the melodic, but can be best compared to bands such as Tool, Mastodon and Deftones. So far, Deadly Circus Fire, have released an EP, their debut studio album (The King and the Bishop), which has received high acclaim from the likes of Metal Hammer, Prog Magazine and many other music publications. They’ve played a plethora of shows around the UK including festivals such as Hammerfest, Bloodstock and Camden Rocks Festival. Always playing to their best and leaving audiences shouting for more. DCF are currently writing their 2nd studio album and preparing upcoming tours whilst playing as many shows as they can in the process to keep people wanting more.

Band Members:
Adam Grant - Vocals
Save Addario - Guitars
Mike Enort - Bass Guitar/ Vocals
Paul Igoe - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deadly+Circus+Fire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.