They play Lisbon, the city of the countryside, chimneys and white domes, sceneries of a lost past, the fado, the loiter western, all together in a voodoo of emotions, the Tagus river, misplaced lovers, abandoned angels in the crossroads of destiny, flowers with misplaced colours, saints, burning hot chambers, naked guitars, thrown on the street, double basses on fire, top hats, chickens on the loose and things that roll on the street. 
 
In “Vol.2: Quando a Alma Não é Pequena”, Dead Combo give us also traces of tango, flamenco, the far west as seen by Ennio Morricone, the real Cuba and the one Marc Ribot sighted, the juish klezmer and the Sicilian drama... They tear apart the soundscapes they already had given us in “Vol. 1”, the debut album that received unanimous appraisal by the critics in 2004. Of this album it was written that it was “...one of the most beautiful and touching recordings ever born under the melancholy sign.” or “...a project that is like a UFO in the Portuguese musical world in 2004 – or any other year(...)” 
 
Tó Trips and Pedro Gonçalves form Dead Combo. The group was formed in 2003 by an invitation of Henrique Amaro from Antena 3 radio, to record the track “Paredes Ambience” included in the homage CD to the genius of the Portuguese guitar Carlos Paredes, “Movimentos Perpétuos – Música para Carlos Paredes”. They incarnate two characters that could have come from a comic: a caretaker and a gangster. 
 
Charlie Gillett (BBC) has nominated “Vol.2 – Quando a Alma Não é Pequena” as record of the month in November 2006 and “Vol.1” as one of the best of 2004. The track “Rumbero”, from Dead Combo's debut album “Vol.1”, was also selected by Charlie Gillett to be included in his compilation cd “The Sound of the World - 2005” that “...is the consummate collection of what is happening now in World Music and what is about to happen, compiled by the most respected World Music DJ, Charlie Gillett. As such it is regarded as “The World Music Compilation of the year”...” 
 
“Vol.2 – Quando a Alma Não é Pequena” was selected by all major media in Portugal as record of the year 2006, like the influential newspaper Público, Blitz music magazine, Radar and RUC radios. Tempestade Music Awards in France also selected Dead Combo's second album as record of the year.  
 
The band has played in all major festivals in Portugal and at the Atlantic Waves Festival in London, UK (2005) and the Eurosonic Festival in Gronningen, Netherlands (2007). Dead Combo also played as support act for Howe Gelb during his latest Portuguese tour. 
 
Released in 2009 "Lusitânia Playboys" in a CD/DVD deluxe package contains 14 brand new tracks with such guests as Howe Gelb, Kid Congo Powers and many others. The DVD contains all the music videos, a documentary about the making of the album and a 40 minute live performance of the group in 2008 in Lisbon.
 
In 2009 they released their first live album “Live Hot Clube” recorded at the mythical Jazz club Hot Clube de Portugal. The record featured Alexandre Frazão on drums.

Dead Combo & Royal Orquestra das Caveiras, the live DVD released in 2010 takes the group’s music to another level with the help of the orchestra composed of a piano player, drums and a three horn section.

Released in 2011 “Lisboa Mulata” is the band’s latest studio album. Featuring Marc Ribot, Camané, Sérgio Godinho and Alexandre Frazão, it’s eleven tracks drink from the Cape Verde’s morna, South American deserts to a portuguese tavern.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Combo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.