There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Dead Poets Society is an electronica band from USA. They were formed in 1998. The group is best known for their remixes of artists Nine Inch Nails, Depeche Mode, Madonna, Minefield, Collide, and Hotboxed as well as their original albums The Electric Haze (2001) and Deprogramming (2002), and singles Schoenfeld (2010), Fire Bolt (live)(2010), and Drumeria (2011). Their sound has been labeled goth, electronica, rock, and alternative. 

2) Dead Poets Society is a heavy metal band from Solvakia. was formed at the end of the year 1997 in Bratislava (capital city of Slovakia) under the name Crusader.  

During this first years the band  performed its first concerts. After the consolidation of the band formation, the work on own compositions of music and by September 1999 the first demo "Victims of The Holy Season" was released. This release was critique as melodic power-speed metal and that ensured the band a firm position on Bratislava's scene as well as the appreciation of magazines from all over Europe. 

After some successful concerts, in the rock hit parades of Slovak radio stations confirmed the status of the band on the home scene. During a year more then 250 CDs of the first demo were sold and more then 100 were distributed for promotion purposes. In spite of this relative success the band was aware of the shortages and mistakes it made when preparing the first demo and with this recognition started to work on new material. 

The songs made in the year 2000 have shown to be more mature in composition, deepening and widening the musical expression, which is more complex, heavier and together with the lyrics has a darker mood. This shift caused some personal disagreements that culminated in the change of the singer and guitar player. Through the new members the group gained talented musicians, who immediately showed their skills and added to the current expression the right touch. Giving to all the changes it showed to be the right time to change the band's name. The main reason was the fact that there are a few groups with the same name. 

Under the new name Dead Poets Society the band made a second demo entitled "Fait Accompli" , which fully confirms the move in the musical direction not rejecting, but emerging from the melodious sounds of the first demo. The new named project and its new material is aspiring for the interest of the whole metal scene and is not concealing its ambition to pass the borders of Slovakia. 

3) Dead Poets Society is a rock  band from Finland.





 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Poets+Society">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.