Artist: Dead Eyed Sleeper
Album: In Memory of Mankind
Genre: Death Metal
Origin: Germany


Death Metal insiders and music journalists have ranked south German Dead Eyed Sleeper among the treasures of the scene since the release of “Sickening Foresight”. Not least, it is their staying power which has pitchforked them out of the local underground to festivals like for instance the famous “Fuck the Commerce”. Since 1994 Sam Anetzberger, Peter Eifflaender and Stephan “Norz” Wandernoth have formed the permanent line- up of the band. The last kick to render them outstanding were multi-instrumentalist Corny Althammer and recently Thomas Amann who provided the necessary solid basic framework at the drums and bass for the anyway talented musicians. 
Thus, for the release of “In Memory of Mankind”, the band decided to drop their former name Legacy and continue under the banner of Dead Eyed Sleeper, both due to their new formation and the far-reaching musical development they have undergone. 

What was old-school Death Metal in the beginning, rapidly advanced to complex high-quality and modern Death Metal. Groove and authenticity are of as great importance as virtuosity and innovation. In the meantime, the Germans are notorious for their energetic live concerts (amongst others with Grave, Entombed, Malevolent Creation, Pungent Stench, Vader, Die Apokalyptischen Reiter, Samael, etc.).
They have proved this at more than 200 impressing shows so far. In 2005 at the Bretthart Festival, for instance, they made sure, that after the gig their fans called for a second one, which the band – thanks to the organizers – were allowed to perform.

Their brilliance is also revealed by the fact that they are favored guest – and session- musicians (as e.g. for Fragments of Unbecoming, Ahab) which popularized their main band far beyond their own circle of fans. 

The commitment and the infernal fervor Dead Eyed Sleeper develop at their latest release “In Memory Of Mankind” illustrates their jump ahead towards the next level in their career…
…equipped with a professionally recorded album which was mixed and mastered by (nobody less than) Christoph Brandes (amongst others Necrophagist).

Christian Hector (Metal Hammer Germany)

Line-Up:
Sam – Vocals
Stephan – Guitar
Pete– Guitar
Corny – Drums, Cello
Thomas – Bass

Discography:
Dead Eyed Sleeper - In Memory of Mankind (2007)
Legacy - Sickening Foresight Demo (2003)
Legacy - Pain For The Masses (2001)
Legacy - Art Of Killing (1998)

Sampler:
Only Death Is Real Vol. 3 (1998)
Deathophobia Vol. 7 (2000)
Legacy-Mag-Compilation Vol. 13 (2001)
Eternity-Mag-Compilation Vol. 19 (2001)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Eyed+Sleeper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.