There are multiple artists with the name Deadwood.

1) Deadwood is a noise Duo From Austin, Texas.

2) Deadwood is a noise / ambient project that was created in 2003 by the single band member, Daniel Jansson, under the name Deadwood Murder. A demo was made and sent out to several labels, the response was excellent. Since then Deadwood has released three full-length albums on "Cold Spring Records", namely '8 19', 'Ramblack' and 'Sheolic'.

3) Deadwood was set up in 2005 by Shahar (vocals/acoustic guitar), Hezi (bass), Tal (guitars) and Alon (drums). Playing together in other projects in the past made it easy for DW to bundle the different musical aspects of each member, meet in the center, explore that erea and form an alternative rock band that combine heavy riffs next to mellow acoustic element.

In 2006 the band released their first single "My Sleepy Town" and a demo version of "Winter Again" that made it to the playlist of Cambridge U Radio, UK.

In winter 2007, the band recorded an EP, titled "Penny For Your Thoughts", which exposed the band to a bigger crowd of audience and allowed the band performing more live shows.

4) DEADWOOD is an Atmospheric Post Black Metal band from Germany. Released a demo in 2008 and the full length "Picturing a sense of loss" in 2014.

Summer 2007 - deadwood adds a fith member to the band- Elad Levin on guitar. Elad enrich the band with his sound, style and technique, and allows the band to take more of the studio sound up to the stage.

These days the band is working on new material, so getting a more accurate idea on what the band is truly about, means going to check 'em out live!

4) Deadwood was a studio project that released three singles on the Decca label in the early 1970s. This prog-psych act was the brainchild of Tom Hayes, Steve Wadey and Michelle Grainger, the song writers behind Los Bravos hit 'Black is Black'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deadwood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.