There is more than one artist with this name.

1) DEAD END is a hybrid rock band taking cues from metal, goth, new wave, and glam. The band first formed in  1984  in Tokyo, Japan and disbanded only six years later in  1990 . They had a signing with Metal Blade Records to release their "Ghost of Romance" and "Shambara" albums in the United States, but then reverted back to a Japanese label towards the end of their career.

Although their commercial success was limited, their albums have received positive reviews and their music videos for "Danse Macabre" and "Blue Vices" were airing on MTV's Headbangers Ball television program and their songs had decent airplay on rock radio stations.

They along with X Japan and a handful other bands during that time, were predecessors of today's visual kei and rock movement in Japan, though were more connected to the metal scene, bridging the gap between the KISS worship (聖飢魔II, EZO) and the Japanese bands of the 90's. It was especially the band's vocalist, Morrie, who inspired the visual appearance and vocal style of many prominent singers.

The band reunited almost two decades later in  2009 and released a new album called "Metamorphosis" through Danger Crue Records. Their earlier albums also saw new releases, all with bonus tracks. Having performed many concerts since their reunion, not all of the original members remained. Drummer Minato choose not to participate during many lives, and so the band invited other drummers to take his place. As of now, they seem to consider themselves a three-piece band.

On November 9th 2011, Dead End has released their first single in over twenty years, "Conception" was the first in a three-month series of consecutive releases. The second will be "Final Feast", which is scheduled to be released on December 14th. The band also confirmed a nationwide tour for 2012.

Members:
Motoyuki "Morrie" Ohtsuka – vocalsYuji "You" Adachi  – guitarTadashi "Crazy Cool Joe" Masumoto – bass, backing vocals 
Former members:
Takahiro Kagawa – guitarMasaaki Tano  – drumsMasafumi Minato  – drums 
Live support members:
Shinya Yamada – drums (LUNA SEA)Kei Yamazaki – drums (Venomstrip) 
2) Dead End from Canada is a 80's hardcore punk band. Their 1984 demo 'Youth Now' (released on tape) may be found as mp3's on punktapes.com. Other releases include "Where do We Go from Here?".

3) Dead End was a death/thrash metal band from Sweden, formed in 1989 and releasing two demo tapes in 1991 and 1992 before splitting up.

4) Dead End was a death metal band from Netherlands, formed in 1990 and releasing three demo and one EP, "Wartime In Eden" in 1993.

5) Dead End is a hardcore punk band from Sweden. They have a 7" entitled "Killing the Messenger," were part of a compilation called "4 Corners" which featured Life's Halt, Dead End, Point of Few, Highscore, and Razlog Za, and released a demo cassette.

6) Dead End was a rock band from Watertown, NY that played many shows around NY state.

7) Dead End is a fusion band from Croatia.

8) Dead End started as a 4-piece Hardcore/Metal band, hailing from Erkelenz, Germany. Formed in early 2007 the band began to play local shows and recorded their first EP ,FOR THE BLESSED‘ in 2008. The shows they played got bigger and in March 2009 the band decided to record their new song ,Shred The Bitch‘ for promotional uses. Their bandname and the song got around quickly and the band was booked as support-acts for bigger shows. In 2010 they entered the studio to record their first full-length album ,TREASURES‘ and hooked up their new guitarplayer Yannic to complete the band and to push the live-performance of the band to a new level. 

9) Dead End were a 4-5 piece hardcore band from aberdeen, scotland.

10) Dead End was a rap group from Oakland back in the early 90's.

11) Dead End is a Russian dsbm/depressive rock band. First album released October 2018 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+End">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.