DEADTIDE will drench you in aural beauty and brutality, and drown you in the heavy metal seas. 

Deadtide is a melodic death metal band from NY/NJ, USA, formed by YouTube heavy metal musicians blackened138 and ChromeCelica00, who have a combined following of 25,000+ subscribers.

They are currently in-studio, finishing recording their debut release, "Ephemeral" (EP). Mike (vocalist) and Phil (guitarist) are known to spend a lot of time online, dedicating much of that time to socializing with other metalheads and fans. They post updates on Deadtide's Facebook page frequently, and those who "Like" Deadtide's page get band updates, find out about metal bands they may not have heard of yet, and more. Occasionally, music promotion tips for metal bands and metal music industry news are also shared on the band's Facebook page.

FREE DOWNLOADS of the earlier instrumental mixes of their coming songs, "Stargazer Syndrome" (preview/instrumental version) and "Anthem of the Insomniac" (preview/instrumental version), are available on Last.fm in Deadtide's "Albums" section under the preview album page, "Ephemeral (EP) preview instrumentals."

Band History:
Long before the band was even named, Deadtide was born in the fall of '06 when Mike contacted Phil on Facebook looking to start a metal band. Phil had posted a few metal riff videos on YouTube and encouraged Mike to post his own, too (on YouTube, Phil goes by the username ChromeCelica00, and is often called "Chrome" for short; Mike's username is blackened138). At the time, YouTube was still in its infancy, and they had no idea that--along with a handful of other metal guitarists and musicians--they would pioneer a whole new concept and a community of metal musicians who shared their metal riffs and songs as video clips with metalheads all over the world on what is today one of the top 3 highest-trafficked websites in the world. The rest is metal history... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deadtide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.