The Canadian black metal scene has always been synonymous with spawning some of the most violent and unique artists in the genre.
DEAD OF WINTER, play extreme black metal, in part inspired by the classic 2nd wave of Norwegian black metal (MAYHEM, DARKTHRONE, BURZUM), the war metal genre (CONQUERER, BLASPHEMY, BLACK WITCHERY) and the newly developing collection of post black metal bands (BLUT AUS NORD, XASTHUR, LEVIATHAN).

This combination manifests itself in a psychotic explosion, aiming to mesh severe despondency with violent hatred, with the intent to simply sound as forlorn and depraved as possible.
 
The band spawned from dementia formed in 2000 by SCHIZOID (vocals, bass) and ABYSSIOUS (drums) after their discontent with their previous band's inability to reach new extremes, DEAD OF WINTER would then see the inclusion of TYPHON (guitars), continuing on as a three-piece in relative indifference to the outside world and local scene until the inclusion of KAEHL (bass) who joined in 2004, with SCHIZOID switching to just vocal duties.

From the remnants of their 2004 Abandon All Hope bootleg rehearsal sessions, DEAD OF WINTER finally unleased their debut album, At The Helm Of The Abyss, an album which is guaranteed to spread plague and disease amongst the Canadian underground extreme metal community.

At The Helm Of The Abyss, an artistic, self-reflecting experience of barbaric and violent repetitious hypnosis presented through the band's raw and overwhelming wall of sound. Alongside their insane and much-talked about live show, DEAD OF WINTER have already garnered much attention within Ontario's underground metal community, and with At The Helm Of The Abyss, DEAD OF WINTER are destined to make an impact, through filth, pillage, and war, on the North American black metal scene.

The momentum of releasing this debut CD caused near self-destruction as the band imploded, with the future in question at the end of 2005.  In 2006, the band returns from the abyss, retaining SCHIZOID and ABYSSIOUS, with new guitarist MEPHISTO and bassist HEXENHAMMER, joining the ranks.  The new-lineup will play shows in 2006 and write new material for the 2nd full length CD... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+of+Winter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.