DEAD LABEL is a modern-metalcore band from Celbridge, Co. Kildare who formed in November 2008. All three members had previously been in a band called VX.

The band chose the name DEAD LABEL because they don’t agree with how metal bands are divided into sub genres or labelled as certain types of metal. Although they take influences from all types of metal their overall sound is heavily influenced by the likes of MACHINE HEAD, PANTERA, CALIBAN and SLIPKNOT, so it’s pretty obvious what to expect from them.

They recorded a couple of demos in 2008/2009. But there isn’t a whole lot of info on these that I can find at the moment. And in 2009 they competed in the ‘Crypt Trials’, an all Ireland ‘Metal Battle Of The Bands’ consisting of 47 bands in all which they went on to win outright. On the back of this they hit the live circuit and gigged as often as possible for the next year or so. They have shared the stage with other Irish bands like VILE REGRESSION, FIVE WILL DIE, XENOCIDE and EDENFIRE.

In October 2010 they went to Komodo Studios where they recorded their debut self-titled EP with Alwyn Walker. The EP was briefly pre-released for free download on facebook but they were asked to take it down when it reached facebooks download limits. All physical copies of the EP have also sold out since its release. Press packs were sent off to some labels, and earlier this year they signed a record deal with Rising Records. The band are currently in pre-production for their first album which they are due to record in October this year, again with Alwyn Walker at Westland Studios with a release expected in early 2012. Irish and UK tour dates are expected to follow soon after.

DEAD LABEL also landed the coveted roll as opening support act for MACHINE HEAD for their Dublin and Belfast dates at the end of May 2012, and also arranged some warm-up shows around the country. The timing for all these shows couldn’t have been better as they also released their debut full length ‘Sense Of Slaughter’.

Since then the band has played shows and toured across Ireland, the UK, Europe and the US. They have recorded and released their second full length album “Throne Of Bones” in 2016 as well as several promo videos. And in January 2019 announced the addition Mick Hynes (THIS PLACE HELL, THE DEVIL WANTS HER SWAGGER BACK) as the bands second guitarist.

Dead Label

Facebook: www.facebook.com/DeadLabel?ref=ts&fref=ts
Twitter:      https://twitter.com/DeadLabelIRE

You Tube:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zff1uzm0xGw 
Email:       deadlabelband@gmail.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Label">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.