2. Dead Of Night
UK
Symphonic Power Metal / Female Vocal 
http://deadofnight.eu/the-dead-shall-rise/
https://www.facebook.com/banddeadofnight

1. Dead Of Night is heavy metal band from Lappeenranta, Finland. Band is formed back in 1998. Present line-up is: Mikko Haverinen, Marko Haverinen, (Miika Kokkola) and Petri Laitinen. HISTORY Mikko and Petri started to play together with one other guy somewhere at early-mid 90's. We played mostly some songs of their favourite bands like Metallica and Iron Maiden. Although we also wrote some own songs too. At that time playing was really just a hobby without any big plans about musical carriers or something like that. We were just having a great time by playing music that we liked most. Well, that fun ended at beginning of year '97, when Finnish army so desperately needed us. But when that all army-shit was over, somewhere mid '98, an idea for a band came back again. Mikko's brother Marko was thrilled about that idea and so we started to look for a place to rehearse. Again we started by playing songs from Metallica and Iron Maiden just to see how things would started to roll. Things went just great and so we started to write our own material. We had our first bass player in '99 but that didn..t work out and so after a couple of months we were without a bass player. Back then we wrote songs and in summer 2000 we made a demo-CD within two days in a local Digibone studios. We had a new bass player in autumn '00 and in winter '00-01 we played our first gig. We did couple of more gigs in our hometown and reception was also quite good but still we decided to add little bit more aggression to our music. Well, that aggression took more and more place in our music and after a couple of "intermediate" songs we started to wrote our material from a totally different basis. Quite quickly we abandoned all our old songs. Guitar riffs get much more darker, vocals changed to be less melodic and drums get faster. Because of the totally new music style and a lack of time in '01, our bassist decided to leave the band, and once again we were without the low frequencies. Almost a year and a half we just wrote, rehearsed and recorded our songs and tried to find a new bass player. Finally in beginning of '03 Ville Pelkonen joined the band and once again we fully functional as a band. In summer '03 we played our first gig with that line-up in our hometown's Pallorock festival. During the winter '03-04 we decided to bought a somewhat decent recording equipments to record our first full-length album. With those equipments we recorded and mixed eight songs. Three of them was on our first CD, released at end of '04, titled as "Dead Of Night" Couple of months later we released a CD which included six songs. End of '05 Ville decided to leave the band and we were again in the situation that has became so familiar during these years. But luckily former bass player and founding member of Battlelore, Miika Kokkola, joined the band at spring '06. Miika Kokkola left the band at autumn 2007. Our new, "old" bass player is Ville Pelkonen. He left the band earlier 2005 but he came back to the band again.
MySpace


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+of+Night">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.