Dead Emotions was founded in 1996 as dark/death-metal combo and quickly gained local attention by playing many shows.

1999 saw Gates to the unseen released as Dead Emotions' first self-produced album that grew quite popular in the german underground and received many good reviews in sevaral magazines (Rock Hard, Legacy, Ablaze, Orkus and more).

First contacts to record labels emerged after Gates to the unseen was elected Demo of Month Sept. 2000 in the HAMMER magazine.

After the sellout of Gates to the unseen's first edition in September 2001, Dead Emotions signed a contract with Medusa Productions, who immensly helped to increase the worldwide's underground attention and distribution of the album's second edition.

The 2nd album The Genesis Behind sounds technically more experienced, faster, harder and at the same time much groovier than it's predecessor. In addition to the perfectly produced sound, the new album mainly stands out because of it's powerful riffs, haunting melodies, boosting dynamic parts and musical independance.

In Fall 2003, after signing a distribution contract with MDD Records, together with the outstanding album and the Thrash To Death-tour through Germany & Luxembourg (presented by Legacy Magazine) with Debauchery in 2004, DEAD EMOTIONS got more and more interest in the metal world.

In late 2005, There Is No Dawn-promo-CD was recorded... an intensive mixture of melodic, groove and brutal heaviness! Early 2006 saw DEAD EMOTIONS tour with Debauchery and Commander and they also played at the Walpurgis Metal Days Festival together with Dew Scented, Debauchery, Fleshcrawl, Soul Demise and other well-known bands. In July 2006 they were local support for the Obituary show in Munich.

Since then, DEAD EMOTIONS is working on new material for their next CD to be released in mid 2007.

So all in all, DEAD EMOTIONS are curiously looking for a record company and into an interesting future... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Emotions">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.