Although a relatively "young" band (formed in late 2007), Dead Garden Cult quickly gained attention in the Croatian metal scene, with a "different understanding" of metal music. Formed by Davorin Gerovac, Ljudevit Oresic (as second guitarist at the time) and Luka Sedmak, who have already had tons of experience gathered through various Croatian metal bands and projects, the trio decided to ignore all kinds of style restrictions and simply played music that they liked. One could say that the music DGC plays today is directly inspired by bands that they liked most at the time, first and foremost, bands like Metallica, Slayer, Forbidden, Morbid Angel, Exodus, Death, Nevermore, Strapping Young Lad, Machine Head, Cynic and others alike. 

Taking their time, they've spent hours and hours working on songs that would eventually grow into a sound and style that they could call their own. Of course, various line-up changes were necessary until the band could emerge with something tangible. These were mostly bass and vocal spot changes. 

The first "solid" line-up was formed in mid 2008, when Filip Bartol filled the vocal spot and Petar Makar occupied the bass spot. After that, the band continued work and "fine tuning" the songs (musically and lyrically) that would eventually become their first EP, several months later. 

In the meantime, the band posted some demos online and played a few live shows, which only helped them gain more and more attention, especially with an interesting combination of various styles, like thrash metal, death metal, progressive and hard core. Throughout this period, there were many turmoils and problems, like Petar and Ljudevit leaving the band (Ljudevit returned to the bass spot for the recording process), various recording and financial problems, etc. But even with all the "quakes", the band managed to pull through once again and finish their first EP, called "Obsidian". 

Released in June 2009 ("One year late", as the band members like to point out), "Obsidian" represents the almost-two-year-long musical development of Dead Garden Cult and can (at least) slightly demonstrate what this band is all about, even though the band is currently deep into writing and finishing new material, which should be, as the band claims, "much heavier and a lot crazier, without loosing the essence of the style we tried to create". The band's debut album is in preparations for an early 2010 release.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Garden+Cult">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.