There is more than one artist with this name:  

1) Deadline is a female fronted Punk Rock band from London, England formed in 2000. They have released 5 albums and 2 splits with Brassknuckle Boys, their newest album "We´re Taking Over!" came out in March of 2008. Members consisting of Liz (vocals), Hervé (bass), Ryan (guitar), Pascal (drums) and Doudou(guitar).


2) Deadline was a short-lived American punk band that featured future Fugazi member Brendan Canty. The four piece, composed of Brendan Canty (drums), Christian Caron (guitar), Terry Scanlon (bass) and Ray Hare (vocals), formed in the summer of 1981. They quickly recorded a demo at Inner Ear Studios that September and from those sessions, three tracks were culled for use on the Dischord "FLEX YOUR HEAD" sampler. After playing a number of memorable shows through the following year, including opening for Flipper at the old 9:30 club, the band recorded one more session at Inner Ear in August of 1982 just prior to disbanding. That tape, once one of the great lost gems of DC punk, was eventually released by the Peterbilt label as the one-sided 12" called "8/2/82"

Ray Hare - vocals
Christian Caron - guitar
Terry Scanlon - bass
Brendan Canty - drums


3) Deadline was a rock band from Berlin, Germany, that was founded in 1997. Unfortunately they only published one album, called "Goodlife" in 2003. Deadline won the Berlin rock contest "Emergenza" in 2001 and performed at the festivals "Rock am Ring" and "Rock im Park" in the same year. They were also supporting band for Lifehouse, Mother Tongue and Nickelback. The members were: Marek Jamrozy (vocals & guitar), Fabian Werner (guitar), Moritz Dill (bass) and Dennis Carl (drums)


4) Deadline is an American rock band, formed in 1998.


5) Deadline were a 4 piece Rock band from Yorkshire, England formed in 1999 and disbanded in 2005 by change of name to Crimes of Passion. Members were Kris Hudson-Lee (Bass Guitar), Andy Lindsay (Guitar), Dale Radcliffe (Vocals 2005) and Kev Tonge (Drums 2002-2005).

They were formed from the merging of two bands - Rotherham band Promise and Doncaster band Joe Lazarus. The band secretively changed its name in 2005 to become Crimes of Passion to record a new EP, released under the same name.

Previous members ware Steve Lunn (Vocals 1999-2005) and Christian Hayes (Drums 1999-2002).


6) Deadline  is a Canadian four piece band that originated in Sarnia Ontario and moved to Vancouver BC. The band include twins Tim & Tom Wood on Vocals and drums with Sean Meehan on Guitar. The band released two EP's a self titled one and "So This Is Limbo" which were followed by Tangible Vibe a full length indie album. Before the massive explosion of pop punk Deadline were playing this style and doing a fantastic job. Their biggest success was the single "Freind In Me" which got airplay across Canada. The bands full length album saw them release two singles "Living Proof" and "Kill Me Slowly" both of which failed to ignite at radio. The band toured relentlessly playing clubs but nothing helped them break nation wide. The band have been inactive on the new music scene since their full length album was released in 1996.


7) Deadline was a French based Power/Thrash band with only one album released titled "Capital Punishment" which was released in 1994. The bands' music will appeal to fans of Metal Church and Sanctuary. Very rare and hard to find album.


8) Deadline was a prolific bassist & world music producer Bill Laswell beginning in the mid 1980's and again in the early 1990's for  two projects released under this title. The first, released in 1985 under the title Down By Law saw Laswell collaborating with the drummer Phillip Wilson. Among other notable musicians appearing on this Deadline album were Manu Dibango (saxophone) Bernie Worrell (synthesizer) and Jaco Pastorius (bass guitar). The second Bill Laswell Deadline release appeared in 1991 called Dissident. This album saw Laswell playing with other bassists, Bootsy Collins & Jonas Hellborg. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deadline">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.