Deaf auditorium was formed by Robi (guitar) & Davor (drums) in summer (June/July) 1998, after demise of their former band (Decorator '94-'98). Soon after (in August) Poza (guitar) joins band and later (in October) Lado (vocals), as place of bass player was left empty. In that period was recorded one rehearsal, later called "Blind by Fate demo“. In November Dario (bass) joins the band, but soon after their first concert in April, next year (1999), Dario was fired.

In need for bass player for following concerts they’ve hired Danijel, and it was just for short time terms, later that year (1999) Boris joined band, and that was beginning of more stabile line-up, also they recorded first “serious” demo tape with 2 songs, later called "Lost Soul demo" in fact that was the first of two planned sessions in studio “Sound kitchen” for 5 track demo, second session was recorded but it has never been finished (Blind by fate, Sacrifice & Prey).

Similar to the songs from later period (2000) which never were recorded (Between dusk and dawn, Legion & And skies will bleed), and they were a bridge to a final sound of the band on demo “Season of Evil” recorded in January 2002, real breakpoint was the song “Monody of death” which was firstly recorded in April 2001 for Infaustum projects compilation called “Stormbreed”. “Season of Evil” demo featured 3 more songs and as compilation “Stormbreed” was recorded in “Muha” studio.

In 2002 followed "big" tour, also on the first concert which was presentation of new demo (in club Močvara), was recorded first video clip for song “Forgotten divinations”. But due the difficulties of front man Lado to find time for concerts along the job, he has to leave the band in January 2003, so all 2003 year was lost, just playing few concerts that year (with Poza on lead vocals), and trying to find new front man.

In January 2004, Marko Amižic was new vocalist; band has almost finished all songs for next demo. But now long time bass player Boris decided that it is time to leave the band, in March, new bass guitarist become an old friend, Igor Šprajcer. So in September band steps again in studio “Muha” to record their third demo "Agony of Fallen Angels" with 7 songs, but during the recordings the argues starts to develop between band members, in the end the demo was finished but Davor, one of the founders of the band has left, leaving place behind drums empty, so after few auditions in attempt to find new drumer, band broke up (winter 2004).

In May 2005 band was again alive, last line up was there, except on vocals was again Lado. Band has played few concert from than, yet again in 2005 on concert with Vital Remains in club Močvara was recorded a new video clip for song “Eternal dark”, also Davor has made video clip in 2006 for song “From ancient times”. Both demos Agony and Season of evil were again reprinted, with video clips as extra material. During summer 2007 one rehearsal were recorded with 4 new songs. Also song Eternal dark appears on Oluja fest VIII promotion cd, but after canceling that concert, at the end of 2007, Deaf auditorium is disband, after 10 years of existence… 

Last known line-up:
Ladislav Pezdevšek - vocals
Tomislav Pozaic - guitar & vocals
Robert Veljaca - guitar
Igor Šprajcer - bass
Davor Radovec - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deaf+Auditorium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.