Kwon Hyuk (권혁; born November 10, 1992), better known by his stage name DEAN (styled as DΞΔN), is a South Korean alternative R&B singer-songwriter, record producer. DEAN began his musical journey as a hip-hop artist at age 16, beginning his career as part of a crew with Korean rapper Keith Ape (whose single 'It G Ma' boasts over 18 million YouTube views), but by the age of 18, DEAN discovered his talent for singing and his gift of creating infectious melodies. Now having written chart toppers for K-Pop boy bands such as VIXX and EXO, DEAN has already proven himself as a successful hit maker. DEAN has written 'Unfair' for EXO, 'World Tour' for Lee Hi, and ‘Bingle Bingle’ for Block B in 2016.

DEAN is committed to becoming one of the greatest cross-over acts to break onto the music scene both in Korea and the U.S. DEAN has worked with several in-demand artists and producers such as Mr. Camack, DJ esta of Soulection, Anderson .Paak, Eric Bellinger, EXO, Crush, ZICO, Syd and more.

In July of 2015, DEAN released his first English single, 'I'm Not Sorry', featuring Grammy Award-winning singer-songwriter/producer Eric Bellinger. To-date, the video has racked up over 3.3M views on YouTube.

With his second Korean single "Pour Up (feat. ZICO)" he received the Best R&B/Soul Song of the Year at the Korean Music Awards, one of the most recognized and respected awards in Korea.

His Korean single "What 2 Do (feat. Jeff Bernat, Crush)", released on 28th Jan 2016, ranked amongst the top 11 on the MELON chart (No.1 digital retailer’s chart in Korea) putting him in the Top 20 along with other well-established Korean superstars.

130 mood : TRBL is DEAN’s very first EP including three previously-released tracks, "I Love It (feat. Dok2)", "Pour Up (feat. ZICO)", and "What 2 Do (feat. Jeff Bernat, Crush) with four new tracks: "And You? (Outro)", "Bonnie & Clyde", "D (Half Moon) (feat. Gaeko)", and "21". ‘130’ is a symbol of James Dean as he put the number 130 on his car. It is revealed that DEAN has been inspired by James Dean. 'TRBL' stands for ‘trouble’, and it’s from DEAN’s nickname 'DEAN TRBL'.

He has shown his talent at many of the industry’s major events and festivals including SXSW — Spotify House and Hypetrak.

Official Instagram: instagram.com/deantrbl/
Official Twitter: twitter.com/deantheofficial <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DEAN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.