Death By Stereo can refer to either one of the following bands:

1) Death By Stereo is a hardcore band. They were formed in 1996 in Orange County, California, with 5 members. Of these original members, only Efrem Schulz still plays with the band. Death By Stereo is well known for their energetic performances, and intricate guitar work.

The band was formed by Ian Fowles, Jarrod Alexander, Efrem Schulz, Paul Miner and Jim Miner out of were the remnants of Clint, CleanX and the D-Cons (their former bands). They practiced in Jarrod's garage for a few months and then decided to record a demo. They recorded five songs at For The Record Studios, where Paul worked. Out of the five songs, four of them went on to be included on the album If Looks Could Kill, I'd Watch You Die. On March 5, 1998, they played their first show, and soon after began playing more shows around Southern California.

In 1998, Death By Stereo was signed to Indecision Records, and released their first album in the following year. Shortly after Jarrod moved to Boston to pursue music full time at the Berklee School Of Music, and was replaced by Tim Bender. Keith also left the band, to pursue his other bands Throwdown and Eighteen Visions. He was replaced by Dan Palmer, formely of the band Eyelid.  Ian also left the band fairly early on, going on tour with the likes of Sense Field and Further Seems Forever, and as of summer 2006 serving as The Aquabats' full-time guitarist under the psuedonym Eagle "Bones" Falconhawk. They toured for the rest of the year.

Death By Stereo spent almost all of 2001, touring North America, with bands such as Sick Of It All, BoySetsFire, The Hope Conspiracy, AFI, Rise Against, Nicotine and The Planet Smashers. At this time, Tim decided to leave the band and was replaced by Todd Hennig from 'Heckle' and 'Seven Years War'.

Death By Stereo's guitarist Tito left the band in mid-2005. Death By Stereo is now playing as a four-piece band until a replacement guitarist is found. The band has recently commented that they are in no hurry to find a replacement, and that they may even play as a four piece for a long time. Former guitarist Jim Miner recently returned to the band to play two shows with the band in December, but he did not return to the band fulltime.

The name Death By Stereo was taken from a scene in the movie The Lost Boys.

Death By Stereo website: http://www.deathbystereo.com/

2) Death by Stereo is a thrash/groove metal band with some progressive elements based in the Philippines. It was formed back in the early 90's by Jerome Abalos, their first album being a self-titled release from 1994. They released their last album in 1997. Vocalist Jerome Abalos pursued a solo career in mainstream mediocre pop music, but the tide changed sometime 2003/2004 when Jerome Abalos decided to reform Death By Stereo. The band released their first album since the reformation, titled "Resureksyon", with only Jerome Abalos the lone member from the original group left.

The current line-up consists of:
Jerome Abalos - Vocals
Armand Aquino - Guitars
Xzander Leonen - Bass
Paolo Manuel - Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+By+Stereo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.