4/14/10
Deathamphetamine started in 2000 when Cristian, Asaf, and Scott tried to start a new band after their first high school metal band, "Buried dreams" dissolved. That was when they wrote the first songs that eventually became "Death Machine," "The Curse,"  "Submerged In Frequency," and some others that never made it. The next year or two was spent trying to cement a line up, but this was not easy in Needham MA, a basically shit town. Then Cristian and Asaf went to Umass Amherst  basically giving up on music like a couple of chumps. Scott couldn't get into Umass right away because of his constant drinking and drug abuse and therefore lack of any motivation. When he couldn't get another band started he started actually trying and got into community college and then got into Umass all just so he could start the band up with them again. ( I don't really know if I have ever told them that.) Then a year of busting his ass to get them to play music again later, the band had its first line up and was sort of getting shit done. Our first bass player Nick Flanagan quit early on and this dude guy named Chris Paulfrey joined the band who was actually into lots of metal and helped the band write some stuff like the songs "Politics of Horror,"(he wrote all of that one)  "The Taste of Sleep," "Vengeance Nacht," "First in the world." and many others that I can't remember right now. I will continue this later when I get my facts together.
4/15/10
Ok so I think some of this out of order, but here are the corrections: Nick Flanagan was in the band up until close to the end of 2002 because I vaguely remember him being at a couple practices during the summer I was living out of my car and an overnight security guard. OH YEAH he was also there when we came up with the name Deathamphetamine. The way this name happened was pretty dumb I guess. I brought over a list of band names to x-tian's weird windowless room where we practiced, which was taken out of this chapter in the Illuminati trilogy where they are describing the biggest concert ever and for some reason listing all of these imaginary band's names. I think I wanted to call it "Iron Curtain" which would continue off of the my other high school band's name "Cuban Missile Crisis" which Asaf and Cristian had both done stints in. However nobody liked that and Cristian was coming up with lots of stupid names and saying unhelpful things but then he sort of hit on something which, while very simple, turned out good. He said something like "We all like the band Death, but we are playing speed metal more like slayer, so it should be Speed Death or something." I thought that was dumb but from that came from Nick F the name "Crystal Death" which was getting there and then I think I made the obvious jump to "Deathamphetamine" also thinking of the contents of all the Adderall pills I was buying or taking from my girlfriend that summer to stay awake to go to band practice to get the band going. It just seemed appropriate to me at the time that the band should be related to that somehow. Everyone else thought it was cheezy, but hey we are still using it so whatever I don't fucking know. No body liked the new names I came up with last year before the new EP came out. The rest of this incredibly long winded history that no body gives a shit about will have to wait untill another day. Or until they make me take this down because I didn't write it in the third person. But you know what? THIRD PERSON IS FOR LAME BAND BIOS. 
 And then I took this massive poop all over my girlfriend's collection of Charles Heston films and decided to write nu-wave folk songs about it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deathamphetamine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.