DEATHFALL 
Biography

In 1994 five guys got together to play some tunes in the drummers basement and soon Rimmshot was born. Starting out with some own written material and some metal/hardcore covers they started doing some shows in Holland. Not so long after they developed their own distinguished sound.

Due to their gigs the band got picked up by Theo Coumans(The Noizz & Gangstyle Records).
He made sure their first demo was recorded in 1996 called “Get out of my way”. After selling quite a few of these ripping demo’s Theo thought it was time to record their debute cd in 1997 called “Denial of  Truth”. Throughout the years Rimmshot wrecked some stages with bands like Blood For Blood, Cold As Life, 25 Ta Life, Biohazard, Crowbar, All Out War, Kickback, Warzone, Tech 9, Discipline, Right Direction, Backfire and more, the band got an offer from the Belgian “I Scream Records” to record five songs for a compilation cd with five other bands in 1999. It was called “The New League of Hardcore Volume 1”. A few thousand copies of these were sold in Europe and a tour through Holland, Belgium and a small part of Germany was done together with Born From Pain(NL) and Cold as Life(USA).

In 2000 it got a bit quiet around the band due to lead guitarist/vocalist Ramon’s work abroad. After coming back in 2002 the band picked up their gear again to start working on new material. After being away for 2 years the band realized it was hard to gain the trust of their fans again. But not wanting to give up on music they rehearsed like hell and played gigs where ever possible to let them selves be heard.

Not being under Theo’s management anymore they decided to record the next album self financed. This album was called “The Darkness in Me” and was released in 2003. The band got positive reactions on the album from everywhere. The musical style has always been leaning more towards metal then hardcore, but on this album you could hear the mature growth of the band throughout the years. Sounding more technical and groovier then ever.
Because Rimmshot always played with hardcore bands they were “pushed” into a hardcore cubicle. It was hard for the band to get gigs with other metal bands.
Seen this last fact Ramon thought it was time for a new name for the band in 2005. A name that would be compatible with hardcore, metal and even death metal. A name easy to remember. This name would be: DEATHFALL.
2006 was the year DEATHFALL signed a record deal with Burning Star Records from Greece. The crown on their work so far is baptized in blood called “ REBORN ” and will be officially released in 2007.

Because Roel (drummer) is on tour a lot with Born From Pain, Deathfall found trust in the mighty fast blasts of Sylvy Notermans. She is the helping hand when Roel is gone.
So still alive and breathing DEATHFALL hopes they can bring the hardcore and metal crowd closer together and to spread their music around the world.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deathfall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.