Death Warrant. THIS SONG IS FROM THE DERRY BAND!!!



2. ACTIVE Northern Ireland band from Derry; Death Warrant formed early 2007 but gradually grew into a band once its founding members finally found the musicians they had their sights settled. Main influences from popular metal acts such as Fear Factory, At the Gates and Arch Enemy to name a few, Death Warrant mix brutal riffs, distinctive melody and pure aggression into a sound that is fresh, memorably listenable, but most of all their own.  Official Site
The band was formed by brothers Kev and Paul Sandy. After numerous musical difficulties and what seemed like an ever changing line up, guitarist Paul decided to add long time friend Johnny to the equation. Unknown to Johnny, singing in a metal band was something new to him, and with a chance he gave it a shot and outshined previous vocalist’s attempts. Now with Johnny's ear bleeding vocals the band thought all problems were solved. That was far from the truth. Still experiencing musical problems with a number of bassists and drummers, the line up began to change again until Steve Caldwell and Darren Rodgers jumped aboard. Steve and Darren had played in a previous band together and knew each other quite well. Coming into a new band was thought to be difficult, but each piece fitted correctly and was finally on its way to becoming a metal band.

Within the first few practices, Death Warrant started to write songs in Johnny’s tight spaced, damp, dark and grimy garage, that generally looked like Edd Gein’s work shed, the perfect place to start writing their style of music. Drummer Steve who lived near by transported his drum gear within a trolley from a local supermarket because it was just plain easy. Although at the time this seemed funny.

By 2008, Death Warrant had a busy schedule gigging in venues from the Nerve Centre in Derry to the Rosetta Bar in Belfast and supporting such bands as Sworn Amongst and Malifice on their Irish tours.

They’ve professionally recorded in studio their first EP ‘Hate Infected Mind’ with 6 tracks of material which they’ve written over the first year. Already hearing great feedback from local fans, and raved reviews from the likes of Metal Ireland, Death Warrant has their minds set to greater things and hopes to achieve a successful career.

At the moment Death Warrant are back in the studio recording their new and first album ‘While The World Sleeps’ which will have some tasty treats on it. Keep an ear close to the ground and watch out for this one!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+Warrant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.