http://www.deathofademon.com/

The new DARK ROCK Monument
(featuring Ex-Members of the Spook & Heartbreak Engines)

The deepest abyss of the human soul, the corroded line between good and evil, the approaching apocalypse.

DEATH OF A DEMON deliver the perfect soundtrack to this dark end time scenario.

Musically, there is a deep darkness to be found in the songs, but also sheer anger and aggression are strong elements of the D.O.A.D sound, brought to life by mighty riffs, brilliant, straightforward songwriting with balls and an omnipresent, immense power.

In late 2008, Lou, founder and singer of the legendary horrorpunk band „The Spook“ and the Punkabilly cult-combo „Heartbreak Engines“ decided, that the time has come to bring his vision of an uncompromising, heavy dark-rock band to life.

In 2009, after a couple of line-up changes, the perfect line up for this wicked dark-rock monster of a band was finally complete: Jack Ill, original member and drummer of „The Spook“ joined the band, as well as Lester Vail („The Spook“) on bass guitar. Syd from the „Heartbreak Engines“ and Lou's long time musical counterpart and friend became D.O.A.D.'s lead guitarist, and cover-artist Jan Meininghaus took over rhythm guitar duties and is also responsible for the visual realization of the dark Band-concept.

The DEATH OF A DEMON sound is reminiscent of band like „Black Label Society“, „Down“ or early „Danzig“ - heavy riffing, tasteful lead guitar playing and variable vocals create a perfect mixture of melody and uncompromising heaviness.

Pounding drums with doublebass attacks, huge walls of guitar riffs and catchy songwriting are the ingredients of the DEATH OF A DEMON sound – timeless rocksongs, highly energetic and right in your face.

The experienced band members' various musical backgrounds and influences provide for a powerful combination of Metal, Punkrock and Dark Rock – which makes them an unstoppable force in today's music world.

DEATH OF A DEMON's impressive first live appearances were instantly hailed and praised by the audience and lead straight to a record-deal with FIENDFORCE REC. - after the very first show…

The band has just recorded their debut album
„DOOMSDAY EUPHORIA“
for Fiendforce Records, hitting stores
29. October 2010

Death of a Demon – Official Website  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+Of+A+Demon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.