Aggressive Finnish deathrash act Deathchain was formed in winter 1997, under the name of Winterwolf. Winterwolf released two demo-cd's with old line-up, named "Death…will come your way" (January 2000) and "Blood for Death" (January 2001). After these two demos founding member Corpse was disappointed in current state of the band. The autumn 2001 started a new era for the group. After relocating the band to Kuopio new members were found. The new line-up soon took over including founding member Corpse in guitar and vocals, Bobby in guitar, Kuolio in bass and Kassara in drums. Soon after band's name changed to Deathchain.

In the beginning of the year 2002 Deathchain entered the S. Jämsen's Studio Perkele and recorded a demo called "Poltergeist" containing four tracks of aggressive deathrash metal . Even though the demo got mainly good reviews, the band wanted to strenghten the vocal department. A new vocalist Rotten was found in summer 2002 and Corpse started consentrating in guitarplaying only. Nevertheless, "Poltergeist" gave Deathchain what they were looking for - a recording deal with a Finnish label, Dynamic Arts Records.

Soon after Deathchain started writing new material for the upcoming deathrash attack. It was hotter than hell in summer 2003 when Deathchain entered once again S.Jämsén's Studio Perkele in order to record their debut album. After insane nights in the studio and with the mastering assintance of Minerva Pappi at the Finnvox Studios, on fall 2003 Deathchain delivered the goods with their fiery debut album titled "DEADMEAT DISCIPLES". Containing 9 songs of the bursting deathrash metal, album came out October 1st and started getting great reviews in Finnish media. Soon after the album came out in Europe and Russia receiving stunning reviews all around.

Deathchain started to play lots of gigs in order to promote the album. Shows in Finland, Germany, Austria, Belgium and Netherlands gave the band what they were looking for - publicity. Especially in Finland Deathchain pushed their name to the metal scene hard and strong. The aftermaths of DEADMEAT DISCIPLES". reached its climax in summer 2005 when Deathchain played brutal show on the main stage in Tuska Open Air metal festival in Helsinki.

The summer of 2005 was pretty busy for the band in other respects too. In June the band entered the studio in order to record a follower for their succesful debut album. Once again teamed up with Sami Jämsén the band played their asses off for three weeks and recorded their second album "DEATHRASH ASSAULT". Soon after the album was mastered in Finnvox Studios by Minerva Pappi. To be released in the October 2005 in Europe and Finland, containing 9 songs of brutal deathrash metal, the album will be a mighty hit on your face! Fast, strong, brutal, insane....you name it. But you must hear it for yourself!

Band with five metalheads believing in what they do. Digging the power of metal music. Heavy, fast, thrashing and bounding riffs played with tough attitude. That's Deathchain.

Deathchain's third album 'CULT OF DEATH' comes out 23.5.07 and bears 8 massacre-filled deathrash warheads ready to be unleashed upon the unsuspecting world. The band's lineup also changed a bit in the side of 2006. The vocalist Rotten had motivation problems and stepped aside from the new lung-pounding bulldozer, K.J Khaos from Deathbound. A coming death-filled year is waiting for the fans of Deathchain as the serpents of the deep hold two releasing gigs in Kuopio and unleash the fury of the Deathammer!

04.02.2008 Deathchain announced they are working on a new album what goes by the title "Death Eternal". Also they announced they're long-time guitarist Bobby is leaving the band due to having problems fitting both Deathchain, and his dayjob into his life.

Deathchain announced in the same post, that they have found 'Cult' to take bobby's spot as the guitarist. They also claim that they don't have to prove his good enough for the job, as he will show he's the right man in future gigs. If you want to hear his own production, you should check Forgotten Horror

In the year 2010 Deathchain released their fifth album, which goes by the title "Death Gods". The album was mixed and mastered at the legendary Necromorbus Studio (Watain, Deströyer 666) by Tore Stjerna. The album reached position 19 in the official finnish charts. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deathchain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.