There are several bands using this name.

1. Death Dealer was a speedmetal band from Canada.
After recording their legendary demo in 1983, they changed their name to Deaf Dealer and released their first album Keeper of the Flame in 1986. Their second album Journey into Fear was recorded in 1987 but never officially released.


2. Death Dealer is an American  power metal band founded in 2012.

         It's hard to argue with the pedigree of a band that includes members that worked with Manowar, the Dictators, Halford, Lizzy Borden, U.D.O., and Cage. And that's exactly who the members of the newly launched Death Dealer were previously associated with - vocalist Sean Peck, guitarists Ross the Boss and Stu Marshall, bassist Mike Davis, and drummer Rhino.

         As evidenced by their debut album, 'Warmaster,' Death Dealer's mastery of authentic metal has been put to use straight away. "The Death Dealer sound is a mighty combination of five very talented, seasoned musicians," explains Ross. "It's classic power metal with the brutal edge of thrash, speed, and precision."

          In an era where computer technology is king, it was through the internet that Death Dealer was formed. Ross: "Death Dealer formed early 2012 when Stu Marshall and Sean Peck who had collaborated previously, met Mike Davis and Rhino when on tour in California. Stu was blown away by Sean's vocal abilities and a bond was formed. Around February, Sean would send me messages on Facebook now and then, and Stu started talking to me as well. The conversation quickly went to, 'Hey Ross, would you like to play on some songs we've done?' I said sure, not knowing what it would sound like."

         "Well, after they sent the first tune over, I was blown away, then Stu and Sean tell me they want me to join this band, called Death Dealer. I say, 'Who else is in the band? They say, 'Rhino on drums.' I'm in! Stu goes, 'It was either you or we would have approached KK Downing to be on guitar.' Wow!"

          As heard on such tunes as "Death Dealer," "Never to Kneel," and "The Devil's Mile," for fans of authentic, no-holds-barred, manly heavy metal, 'Warmaster' is an absolute godsend. And soon, Death Dealer will be converting metalheads worldwide to their cause. "Our future plans? Obviously to put Death Dealer on the worldwide metal map, and to engage large crowds and render them shocked and satisfied."

          And according to Ross, fans attending Death Dealer performances can expect a set list that will draw upon more than just material from 'Warmaster.' "Death Dealer will play other tunes - especially some classic Manowar tunes that I have written. Also, you never know what cool rock n' roll tune we could deliver. This band is deadly serious, but humor and fun are a big part of our makeup."

          Make no mistake about it, Ross the Boss has returned with a vengeance, as heard throughout the killer debut release from Death Dealer, 'Warmaster.'

With the debut slated for an early 2013 release, these five will forever be known as 
Death Dealer!

Death Dealer is:

Ross The Boss: Does this legend require an introduction? While with Manowar, Ross not only influenced legions of aspiring musicians, but he was also part of classic albums that have sold more than four million copies worldwide. In addition to releasing two acclaimed albums with the Ross The Boss band, New Metal Leader and Hailstorm, he recently toured with ex-Dictator band mates as a member of Manitoba.

Rhino: This one-man wrecking crew built his reputation as the drummer for Manowar, Holy Hell and most recently Angels of Babylon. Rhino is also an acclaimed singer, songwriter, guitarist and producer.

Stu Marshall: The Sydney, Australia guitarist/producer achieved fame as the lead guitarist for Dungeon. He is also the mastermind behind Empires of Eden, which led to his working such metal heroes as Udo, Rob Rock, Mike Dimeo, Steve Grimmett, Zak Stevens and many more.

Mike Davis: Making a name for himself as the ‘go to guy’ in his days with Lizzy Borden, so when the Metal God himself, Rob Halford, put out a call for bassists, producer Roy Z knew Mike was the perfect fit. Known for both his abilities and killer live stage presence, Mike was also Death Dealer’s first and only choice.

Sean Peck: One of metal’s most illustrious voices, Peck recently celebrated his band Cage’s 20th anniversary. Referred to as “The man of a thousand voices,” he has been compared to such names as Halford and Dickinson, and this assemblage of talent allows him to show off every part of his God-given instrument.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+Dealer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.