Death on Demand was originally started in October 2009 by Lee, Phil & Locker. Locker left shortly after to follow another path but returned in 2011 to take up his original spot on the drum kit.
Stu was a very good friend who had left his band in early 2010 and was offered the role of Bass player.
Lee then spoke with his old vocalist from Blood Retch & Temple Mortuary, Graham Cleary who jumped into doing vocals during the summer of 2010, however after recording the very first version of Face of Hate Graham’s life changed direction and he could not commit to the band.
After Graham’s departure Stu decided that he was going to take over the vocalist duties and it was the right decision, him and Lee sat down and worked on the lyrics for a few days until the band were happy with the final versions.
Within just a few weeks the band was back in the Studio with good friend and studio Engineer Andy Harper to get the first EP done regardless.
What we have now is the Tree of Woe EP in all its glory; it’s been a long road with many twists and turns along the way.
The name Death on Demand is born from the idea that in our digital age almost everything is available on the internet with exceptions to Death, however with the breakdown of sociable acceptability we believe it’s only a matter of time before the art of death in any form will be at the click of a button.
Films like Gamer, Condemned, Battle Royale & Deathrace portray this and act as an influence for the bands material.
Since recording and making preparations for the EP release D.o.D have secured a Guitar String Endorsement with Dovetail Strings UK, have signed a record deal with Satanica Productions NZ, have entered the Digital Download World via CD Baby & over 20 different Digital Download Sites which include iTunes, Amazon MP3, Spotify, LastFM & many more.
Tree of Woe was released on the 31st march 2011.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+On+Demand">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.