Death Aura is a side-project of Claustrophobist (ex-WS) from Tomb Of.... The music is similar, but it's more haunting and less noisy. 

The project was born the 3rd of March 2007, when it wrote and recorded its first demo, "Winds Of Mortal Hope".

According to Claustrophobist, the first demo was written in a 'trance', induced by hypothermia, insomnia, depression and anorexia. It was conceived, written and recorded in 3 days and nights. When the final result was produced, he could not remember parts of the writing or recording process. He has went on to state that if the music was to be lost, he could not possibly replicate it.

Musically, the project strives to be bold in its approach of black metal, incorporating elements of minimalist ambient, and an ethereal atmosphere. Claustrophobist has named some of his influences being Silencer, Burzum, Evoken, Leviathan, The Third & The Mortal, Dead Can Dance, Daemonia Nymphe, but he tries to replicate none of them.

Death Aura was originally planning a conceptual trilogy of demos titled, in order, "Winds Of Mortal Hope", "Vie Passe" and "Noble Brevity". There were also plans for a self-titled full-length.

However, as of 2010, the project has entered a long term hiatus. With the second demo planned for 2007 but subsequently delayed for over 3 years, the future of this project is in turmoil.

Because of the way the first demo was conceived, Claustrophobist has had a very hard task of re-creating and enhancing the sound of the project in order to make a second demo that will be a worthy successor to the first:

In a recent interview from 2009, Claustrophobist announced that the second demo has indeed been completed and re-written several times during its 3 year long delay, but that it is not ready. According to him, 2010 is a likely year for its release, but it might never be released if it is not up to par to the debut demo or the standards set by it. Turns out that fan expectations and anticipation for the release may be placing their toll on Death Aura.

If that is to be the case, then Death Aura might split-up without ever releasing another work. In a way, a fitting end for a project that no one had no expectations of, but rightfully earned its place among the 'best' of DSBM projects. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+Aura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.