DEATH CROWNED KING is an unstoppable Death Metal band from the reclusive South Florida Music scene. Formed in the latter months of 08, the band rose from the ashes of two of South Floridas most uncompromising metal acts: DECEIVER and MOLECH. Edgar Gaitan (Vocals, Ex-Molech) and Carlos Delgado (Drums, Ex-Deceiver) met during one of Molechs devastating live shows in 07. Sharing a vast affinity for music and alcohol, the individuals (who ironically share Central American roots of Nicaraguan decent) immediately began discussing the possibility of a future side project.

Tension, strife and frustration followed both musical camps within the next few months. Amongst many set-backs, it became clear the ending was imminent for both perspective bands. Carlos quit DECEIVER in April 08. MOLECH, suffering a lower blow had their guitarist and principal songwriter relocate to Canada for political reasons. The unfortunate circumstance did however appear at perfect timing. The idea of joining the distinctive styles of previous efforts was now a reality. Thus began a partnership and the birth of what would soon become DEATH CROWNED
KING.

Joining forces with Edgar and Carlos would be Marvin Benitez, hailing from El Salvador. Marvin, also sharing a common trade with Edgar (as former California residents) brings in a spark that quickly ignites the group to capitalize on a wealth of music made available by a true fan of the Brutal Genre.

After several months of writing, practicing and even performing selected shows as a trio, DEATH CROWNED KING acquired the talents of Andres Hurtado on bass guitar. Andres went on to perform on the bands full length debut while also assisting in the engineering of it. He decided to pursue other full time musical ventures while maintaining a studio member status with the band.

Enter Oscar Valdez on second guitar. Oscar is yet another California Alumni who, running within the same circle of musicians found his way into the bands practice space and never left. A sharp prodigy of the instrument, he shares many traits and musical tastes with Marvin, Oscar complements the already brutal yet subtlety melodic style the band wields. Intensifying live performances and fortifying an already devastating sound. HAIL THE ORDER! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+Crowned+King">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.