In 2008 diverse conditions made the world susceptible to a joint venture that has been prophesied since the beginning of time.  The wheels of destiny were set in motion and a deadly weapon came to life, Death Arrangement.  The deadliest contract killers the world has ever known joined forces to begin the cataclysmic movement the world has been dreading. Mrs. Legion, Mr. Drágon, Mr. Kromm and Mr. Krusnik have begun the ramble that will lead the change.  Using influences from the thrash, progressive, death metal, black metal, metal core and many variations of the underground metal scene as main weaponry, Death Arrangement’s scope is the deadliest.

Before releasing their first album and after a series of events on their home country Puerto Rico, they quickly became popular in the underground scene, and the fan base grew awesomely fast. In short months they shared stage with important bands and including international death metal icons Deicide. All the while “Nex Pactum”, the masterpiece EP, is being formed to its perfection. Produced by Drágon Rodríguez and Death Arrangement and mixed by Kanky Lora (Straight Line Stitch, Cavalera Conspiracy, Marc Rizzo). On February 2010 it was released. In a few short weeks, the first edition runs out, and a second edition was needed. The acceptance: overwhelming.

On the maybe short life of this four piece “Experimental-Thrash/Death” metal band, they have been dubbed “Best Local Band”, “Best New Band”, “Best Recording”, “Band of the Year” and many other distinctions by local and international metal media.

On October 2010, they where the Direct Support of international metal gods Lamb of God. They performed in front of a packed Tito Puente Amphitheater, and led the perfect atmosphere for the evening. After that performance, many publications gained interest on the metal movement and Death Arrangement became an ambassador.

January 2011 arrived with the “Assassins” in the studio. Sculpting the new release and already widely awaited full album. Produced and Engineered by Kanky Lora (Straight Line Stitch, Cavalera Conspiracy, Marc Rizzo), it’s one of the most promising metal albums in Latin America. Soon to be released and titled “The Ultimate Act of Retaliation”, it’s said to contain 10 masterpieces, that will bang your head from beginning to end.

With the release of the new album, Death Arrangement has ambitious touring plans. A second music video release; following up the video of the first promo track, “A Simple Homicidal Aggression”, released in May 2011. Also supporting slots with National Acts, these are some of the movements D.A. will be making on 2011. But always focused in the musical aspect of a non-stop aggression, this quartet promises to give you a trip of a lifetime.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Death+Arrangement">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.