Deathbox is a metal-band from the south of the Netherlands (Limburg and Brabant). 
The band defines its music as metal, because holding to any subgenre within metal would only limit the band in developing its music. At this moment the band’s style contains various influences ranging from deathmetal to various core-genres. 

Deathbox was formed in Venlo in the summer of 2005 by Rick (guitar), Joep (bass) and Ruud (drums). They started writing songs right away and a few months later Robbie (vocals) joined the band. After a year of writing songs and playing various live shows Ruud left the band and got replaced by Pierre. The band recorded a 5 song EP in 2006 and played a lot of shows across the Netherlands and Belgium. 
The music got better and the shows got more energetic but there were struggles with the current drummer. Again the band was searching for a drummer and after a while Jens was added to their line-up. Jens’ drum-skills were far more diverse and tighter in comparison to the previous drummers. New songs were made and stages were torn apart but the band still felt like there was something missing; an extra guitar-player. 
Besides playing bass, Joep played guitar and the band decided that he should play the second guitar. Short after Nico joined the band on bassguitar. 

Now in 2010 Deathbox proudly unleashes their new cd entitled A BITTER EPILOGUE. The disc is being released through CROSSFIRECULT RECORDS and it contains half an hour of earth trembling metal packed into seven very diverse songs with twisted structures and relentless riffage. In contrary to what the title of the new cd seems to suggest A BITTER EPILOGUE is the start of a new era for Deathbox. It’s their first release after they evolved from a powerful four-piece to an even stronger quintet and it shows how the Deathbox-sound has gotten even better with the addition of an extra guitarplayer.

Again, DEATHBOX is ready to tear up stages everywhere with their savage live-performance full of energy and sweat. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deathbox">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.