There are several bands with the name Debt of Nature: 

1. Influencial avant-improv group featuring many members of L.A.F.M.S: Brad Laner, Rick Potts, Tom Recchion, Joseph Hammer, etc. -

"Once described by Brad Laner to me as being his "garage band AMM", it's an amusing capsulization of the aesthetic of this improv squad he founded as a precocious teen, albeit one that fails to note just how exemplary D.O.N.'s sound was of the overarching L.A. Free Music Society sensibility (strong overtones of Le Forte Four's improv shenanigans circa "Spin 'n' Grin"), but then Laner's work of the era has always been mysteriously absent from both discographies and discussions of LA.F.M.S., despite his heading up the finest of all L.A.F.M.S. ensembles (read: Steaming Coils). These two lengthy cuts were cherry picked and re-arranged by Laner from the D.O.N. archives and according to him represent a composite of several different shows originating from performances at The Anticlub, Galleria Ocaso, Mission Furniture Co., Oranges/Sardines gallery, Cheap Racist gallery and Olio. Try this on for a cast of characters (in addition to Brad): Spencer Savage (Steaming Coils, Stay Home), James Grigsby (The Motor Totemist Guild), Rick Potts (Steaming Coils, Le Forte Four, Dinosaurs With Horns, Solid Eye) , Joseph Hammer (Steaming Coils, Dinosaurs With Horns, Solid Eye) , Tom Recchion (Doo-Dooettes, B-People), Jac Zinder (Stay Home), David Chrisman (Steaming Coils, Three Day Stubble), Lucija Kordic (To Nije Sala, What Makes Donna Twirl?), Jim Goodall (Severed Head In A Bag, Jon Wayne, Medicine), Earnest Beauvine (Jon Wayne) , Kraig Grady (Laner collaborator on Music From The Island Of Anaphoria), Cynthia Skovlin (part-time Steaming Coils contributor), Leo Vishmid, Greg Lloyd, David Van Brink, Mariska Leyysius and Greg McCourt."

2. A death metal band from Düsseldorf, Germany who describe their style as 'Thrashing Death Grind'. 

Biography:
What would happen if Napalm Death, Children Of Bodom and Dying Fetus decided to join an extreme dirty threesome? Yeah, on the one hand the result could be called obscene but on the other it would make you cum and cum again.
 
When Marc Göhring (ex-Legacy Of Darkness), Marcus Italiani, Stavros Kamari (ex-Round The Void), Simon Lukassek and Dennis Hofmann started the Düsseldorf, Germany based band DEBT OF NATURE to create their visions of extreme musical brutality, everybody felt that due to the rich variations in influences (Grind, Death, Thrash, Hardcore and Crust) things either had to lead to something special or Debt Of Nature was to be aborted shortly after it had formed.
 
It soon became obvious that this special twin guitar-melody flavored mixture deserved more than a chance to stand the test of time. Debt Of Nature released its first EP (title?) in June of 2007, followed by the skull crushing album "Dreams Kill On Command" in 2008 which blew critics all over Europe away.
 
The band played great festivals like Fuck The Commerce and Protzen Open Air and continually spread their filth, and shared the stage with bands like MASSACRE, HAIL OF BULLETS, LAY DOWN ROTTEN, ILLDISPOSED, SOUL DEMISE, DENIAL FIEND, HOUWITSER, GRIND INC., PURGATORY, SPAWN, DEADBORN, BY BRUTE FORCE, INHUME, GOLEM, GRAILKNIGHTS, MY COLD EMBRACE, TENDENCIA and many more.
 
In 2009 female growl vocalist Masae Dausend (Temple) joined the fold, thus enabling Debt Of Nature the advantage of dual vocals. Drummer Dennis Hofmann was replaced with Kevin Siepmann.
 
In January of 2010 Debt Of Nature signed with Dutch underground label Deity Down Records. At the moment the band is working on their second album, a record set to be released in spring 2010. Horns Up for NRW-Rhein-Area-Death-Metal! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Debt+Of+Nature">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.