Decahedron was formed from the ashes of Frodus in 2002 when Frodus's Shelby Cinca and Jason Hamacher decided to continue playing together. At the time they recruited Fugazi bassist Joe Lally to play bass. They weren't sure on if the musical endeavor would go beyond just playing music, and In February of 2002 Hamacher left for a 3 month excursion to Eastern Europe and Turkey after recording drum tracks for the pair. Cinca and Lally then put together songs to the drums and decide that there's more to this than just a 'fun project'. Meanwhile, Hamacher, while in the Syrian plains, suggests the name The Black Sea.

In July, under the name The Black Sea, they record 3 songs and later release an EP on Lovitt Records. The three ended up taking an extended vacation in the beginning of the year and returned to America and recorded a copious amount of material. The Black Sea finished a majority of their full length album DISCONNECTION_IMMINENT when they received emails stating that the band name The Black Sea was protected under the ASCAP and if they didn't change their name, legal action would be taken.

Soon afterwards, Joe Lally moved west (location unspecified) and the band changed its name to Decahedron. According to Cinca and their website, they changed their name to Dechahedron based on this statement: "Decahedron - a ten-sided solid geometric shape... a monolithic force appearing in the minute details of nature and primordial universal mass." Johnathon Ford of Unwed Sailor (who's previous band Roadside Monument recorded a split ep with Frodus on Tooth and Nail Records) filled in on bass.

Decahedron toured for three weeks in January and February of 2004 with Engine Down, Statistics, and Moments in Grace. In March, Dillinger Escape Plan, a mathcore band, invited Decahedron to play at their South by Southwest Showcase in Austin, TX. In April, the release of DISCONNECTION_IMMINENT on Lovitt Records. Decahedron sets out shortly afterwards on their first full US tour on the Plea for Peace Tour with Mike Park from Asian Man Records (also founder of the tour), Darkest Hour, and Cursive after Denali broke up while being booked for the entire tour. Johnathan Ford soon left Decahedron after the tour was over. Cinca and Hamacher began working on a new album and recruited Jake Brown from Moments in Grace to play bass on the album. The album, called 2005 was recorded in 3 days at Inner Ear Studios (notable for being the same studio that Minor Threat recorded their first album) in Arlington, VA and recorded six songs. The album was later released on Lovitt records.

Without a permanent bassist, they adopted this philosophy. "As of 2005, the founding Decahedron members decided to continue the band in an unconventional manner as a band without a permanent bass player. Sanctioning the tradition of jazz music and having session folk to sit in for creative explorations on recordings and in live situations." 

During the month of June, Decahedron "[...]temporarily and indefinitely suspends all operations...".

Shelby Cinca currently is in Frantic Mantis and The Cassettes. He also does IDM/8-Bit Electronica Music as a side project.

Jason Hamacher is a world traveler/photographer who often visits Syria. He is now a massage therapist.

Jake Brown started a new band called The Eastern Wave and runs Computer Club Records.

Cinca, Hamacher and Brown have reunited in 2009 to play Frodus reunion shows.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Decahedron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.