Hardcore / Crossover act formed in December 1984 DECADENCE WITHIN have had a string of releases and toured across Europe extensively. The band's first line-up consisted of vocalists Kevin Brookes and Andrea Edwards, guitarist Chris Edwards, bassist Ian Glasper and drummer Andy Mowbray and this quintet recorded three tracks 'High And Mighty', 'Where's A Solution?' and 'Bloodlust Of The Wealthy' for the Meantime Records compilation album 'Shall We Dance?'. The band's next recording was the 'Speed Hippy' EP on Floating Gerbil Records.

 Changes ensued before the band settled on guitarist Giovanni Guigliamoni and, by now having dispensed with Edwards; the new quartet recorded the track 'Component' to the 'Apathy? Never! Volume 2' compilation album, but this was never released. The same line-up also recorded four tracks for a proposed EP which, again, never saw the light of day!

 The band enjoyed greater fortune by having two tracks on other compilation albums. 'We Could Be' appeared on an American album 'Airstrip One' on Mystic Records and the song 'Crushing Of The Intellect' featured on 'A Vile Peace' on Peaceville Records.

 Guigliamoni was replaced by guitarist Keith Bluemal as the band yet again submitted tracks to a Peaceville Records compilation. This time 'Ruins' and 'Self respect' appeared on the 'Hiatus' album. The momentum gained with Peaceville Records culminated in the band's debut album in 1989 'This Lunacy'. 

Having toured Europe with Americans YOUTH OF TODAY in 1989, vocalist Richard White was recruited for the recording of the 'Soulwound' album. Further EPs followed, including a Japanese split EP with FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS and a cover of the CRASS track 'Mother Earth' on the 'You've Heard It All Before' compilation album on Ruptured Ambition Records.

 Another projected three tracks EP, to be titled 'Get a Life', on Dragnet Records was recorded but never released. DECADENCE WITHIN also added their rendition of the SUBHUMANS track 'Joe Public' to a Ruptured Ambitions Records tribute album. However, things came to a halt when DECADENCE WITHIN split in July 1995 with White, Glasper and Mowbray forming BURNSIDE in 1996. Guitarist Joey Blueman formed BABY STRANGE.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Decadence+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.