Decapitated Christ was formed back in September 2005 by founding members BlastHagel (drums), Ghorth (guitars) and Lutt (bass & vocals) with the only aim to resurrect the spirit of the True Old School Metal of the early 90’s, and as a revolt against trendy, money-focused, so called “new” and “modern” metal.

Since the beginning, the music of Decapitated Christ had a definitive Old School vibe to it, having its main influences in such legendary bands as Possessed, early Sodom, Celtic Frost, Venom, Hellhammer, Kreator, Destruction, Sepultura, Slayer, the Swedish masters Carnage, Nihilist, Merciless, Necrophobic, Dissection, Dismember, Desultory or Grave up to the Death Metal classics Morbid Angel, Obituary, Asphyx, Bolt Thrower, Master, Morgoth, Death, Carcass, Deicide, Immolation, Suffocation & Cannibal Corpse, among many more. Decapitated Christ was also trying to find its connection with extreme contemporary bands, also with that unique old school vibe such as the masters Bloodbath, Vomitory, Demonical, Tormented, Zyklon, etc…

It was quite clear since the beginning that Decapitated Christ should be a band without any pretention and/or pretentiousness other than delivering extreme metal the True Old School way, as it should be. This band isn’t about speed-for-the-sake-of-speed, noise-for-the-sake-of-noise, nor is it trying to be the most fast, extreme, underground, grind, porn-gore fucking shit or whatever, but to deliver honest and straight from the depths of our putrid souls fucking METAL as it should have always been.

During 2006, Decapitated Christ was on hold due some personal reasons, and later that year our brother Lutt quit the band. Struggling through tough and hard times, BlastHagel and Ghorth kept the flame alive, waiting for the day of the band’s rise.

2008 saw the birth of the resurrected Decapitated Christ. First of all with the stepping in of Intestinal Shouter Paingrinder with its unique trademark style growls, and later on with Battledemon Cesar Cold on the Earthquake Bass.

Having its most creative time ever, the band rehearsed full machine ahead in order to prepare for the recording of their first cd “Antikristian Extreme Dekapitation”, a call to arms to all those True Old Metal Demons waiting for The Golden Age to rise again. The only intention behind this record is to shake the ground beneath all those trend-metal, hobby bands and drown them on the seas of mediocrity.

After several gigs which followed to the release of “Antikristian Extreme Dekapitation”, and an overall good response, the four Beheaders of the Christ return with their sophomore album “The Vanishment and Extermination of the Deities”, recorded again at the Moontower Studios and mastered by Mr. Dan Swanö himself! Not only Christianity is to blame on this record, but also Islamism, Buddhism and all organized religions, being crushed to the ground with very explicit songs like “Antichristian Desecration”, “Hell’s Everything” or “The Thousand Faces of One Same Lie”.

Beware of the followers of the White Light, just follow the Left Hand Path.
NO TRENDS, NO COMPROMISE. JUST PURE FUCKING METAL!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Decapitated+Christ">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.