1- Polish death metal band.

BIOGRAPHY

1998 DECEPTION is created by Aggareth (git.) and August (drums). The band's inspiration are death metal gods Morbid Angel, Obituary, Nocturnus, Death and Incantation.
2001 The band records its first demo, "Age of Suffering", in Hertz Studio. Deather (bass/vox) joins the band.
2002 Second demo - "Holy Deception" is recorded in Hertz Studio.
2003 Permanent Torment, a compilation CD consisting of two previous demos, is released through Czech's Nice To Eat Your Rec.
2004 First album "Nuclear Wind" is recorded in Screw Factory Studio. Released by RedRum666 Rec. from Poland. In november an „EXTREME BLAST ATTACK TOUR” with Effect Murder and Saamath Naur
2005 The performance at Merciless East Festival II in Chelm , Poland. Next demo "Prying To Liar" is recorded in Chinook Studio
2006 The band starts to work on its second studio album . By the end of a year "Nails Sticking Offensive" is being recorded in Chinook Studio.
2007 "Nails Sticking Offensive" is released through Old Temple Rec. from Poland. Servared Rec. & Burtchered Rec. take on releasing the latest stuff in USA. Touring with AZARATH and STILLBORN at LEGIONS OF DEATH ATTACK 2007 .
DISCOGRAPHY 
Age of Suffering —-(2001) Demo
Holy Deception—-(2002) Demo
Permanent Torment—-(2003) LP
Deception/Putridity—-(2003) Split
Nuclear Wind—-(2004) LP
Praying to Liar—-(2005) Demo
Nails Sticking Offensive—-(2007) LP
CHECK : www.myspace.com/deception667
 

2- Spanish Melodic Death Metal/Gothic Metal band.
"Cult Of Silence" - EP (2007)
www.myspace.com/deceptionlg
http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=101226

DECEPTION is a group atypical. Both the musical aspect and in letters, have their own identity and follow their own path. It was in 2000 when Mark and Ritu met to give life to training slowly emerging from darkness called Brutal Demency. His early compositions were a clear-thrash death metal. At the end of 2005 recorded a model with 7 items themselves and a version of the Slave new world of Sepultura and then decide when to change its name to DECEPTION. Download your direct different points of La Rioja and in all kinds of environments and change their formation on several occasions. Given the good reception of the people and the madness that caused the theme The Lie decide to record it with a better sound. Despite the difficulties in having a training stable composing still looking ahead with its maverick spirit and believe in what they do. In 2007 enters Yécora in the banda and in April of that year decided to enter the studies Track 6 Logrono where they recorded their Ep CULT of silence with the production of Ten Dan (who was a member of the excellent group of Heavy Metal Rioja red wine, sadly disappeared). The result of this Ep surprised both friends and strangers for his aura as staff and the torrent of emotions that involves listening to this opera prima. Shortly after the departure of record on the drums that burn (Arka) decides to stop entering Sesma la banda en la banda and beginning to introduce the disk scenarios around the north of the peninsula. After fulfilled the first year of the recording of the Ep Ivan leaves the band and Mark's going to sing while continuing with the work of bassist. DECEPTION currently registered to new topics in the studio with his new formation and continue to present her work on stage.

3-  early 80's American Hardcore punk band featured on the Hell Comes to Your House compilation

4- German heavy/thrash metal band.

5- American Modern rock band

Deception is one of Atlanta’s newest and most exciting hard rock bands yet. They bring to the table a heavy sound, melodic choruses, and profound lyrics. The band was brought to life when lead vocalist A.J. Sams and bass player Ross Huels teamed up with guitarist Lance Reed and drummer Zac Sweat in April of 2007. The band quickly went into the practice studio in order to produce songs for their upcoming album “Bring Into Being”, which was produced by Matt Washburn of Led Belly Sound Studios. Their album was released in April 2008.

http://www.myspace.com/deceptionunderground

7 - Canadian progressive metal band.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deception">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.