Atsiaktonkie, Terry Terrance, Darman Terrance, Randy Furnia, Donald A. Sharrow

December Wind plays driving acoustic folk-rock infused with their Akwesasne Mohawk culture. Their songs are filled with stories of love, hope, the struggles of native peoples and the beauty of their heritage. Their music inspires those on the Red Road as well as all peoples. 
-
-
DECEMBER WIND BIOGRAPHY

Hailing from Akwesasne Mohawk Nation,  December Wind carries messages of peace, healing, traditional values that are diviningly inspired through their “folk with feathers” genre that has touched people’s hearts around the world.

“I love the messages in your songs! Bless you in many words as you lift the spirits of many with yours in reverence of all that is!”
-Tammy Holl

Look for their New CD,”Without Answers” to be coming out in the Fall of 2019!  Blending the Native American spirit of December Wind with the Missing and Murdered Women and Children of Native People. We are in the talks with legend Keith Secola on being the producer for this upcoming CD!!

Embarking on their upcoming East Coast Tour with their strong influence of Native American Culture addressing spirit issues and strength of the Native Peoples of today! With over 2000 songs to his credit this 2-time Multi nominated Award winning Folk artist and his band has shared the stage with Meryl Haggard, George Jones,Aerosmith, Foreigner, Carrie Underwood and many other great artists! This prolific songwriter has touched so many with the beauty of his songs, and in fact saved the life of a woman from Pittsburgh,PA who sought him out to thank him in person, about a time she stood in her kitchen, on a chair, with a rope around her neck and their music came on the radio. And she sought out help. A group of inmates at San Diego State Prison sent them hawk feathers and said that their music had set them free! We can find their upcoming release at CD Baby and many online stores to be announced.

“No matter what they say, No matter what they do, we will still survive!” – Where are my People lyrics summarize December Wind’s statement for the rejuvenating of the Native American Spirit!-Shane Wilder, Trans American Broadcast Corp- once wrote of their past releases, “They don’t come better than this. Grab it. Every cut a gem. Five Stars!”
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/December+Wind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.