Decimation, technical brutal death metal band from Ankara, Turkey.

Decimation was founded in 1999. In 2004, demo "Helpless Souls (demo)" was released and it received many positive reviews from fanzines & webzines worldwide. The line-up of Helpless Souls was: Emre ÜREN and Erkin ÖZTÜRK - Guitars, Mustafa KARAKUŞ - Vocals, Mert TARTAÇ - Bass and Semih ÖRNEK - Drums.

Soon after the demo members Mustafa and Semih replaced with Volkan CEYHAN (Vox) and Kaya Özgen YALÇIN (Drums). Around autumn 2006, the band recorded their debut album entitled "Entering the Celestial Ruins" at Midas'ın Kulaklığı Studios in Ankara with Erkan TATOĞLU [[artist]Suicide (Tur)]. With the artwork made by Phlegeton (Wormed), "Entering the Celestial Ruins" was released by İstanbul based label Hammer Müzik in early 2007 and it captured the attention of its audience. After the album, Kaya left the band and legendary Turkish extreme metal drummer Goremaster joined to the band .

Decimation worked hard on their new songs in 2008 and as a result, a promo song "Nocturnal Chaos" was recorded and shared with listeners on the Internet in July'08 under the name "Promo 2008".

The band was looking for a new label since the expiration of the contract with Hammer Müzik. When a brand new song titled "Peripheral Profligacy of Transcendental Lower World" from highly anticipated upcoming album "Anthems of an Empyreal Dominion" (which mastered at Imperial Mastering Studio in the U.S.A. by Colin DAVIS of Vile) unleashed in early 2010, it aroused interest at the U.S.A. based label Comatose Music and the band signed a deal for the release of the new album.

The album will take in re-recorded versions of the songs "Entering the Celestial Ruins" from 2007 full-length and the 2008 Promo "Nocturnal Chaos".

Also, cover artwork for the new album is done by none other than Japanese artist Toshihiro Egawa and booklet/layout design is done by Turkish artist Ozan Yıldırım.

"Anthems of an Empyreal Dominion" will hit the stores on August 17th, 2010 and now can be pre-ordered through Comatose Music at: comatosemusic.com

Decimation Official MySpace
Decimation @ Twitter
Decimation @ ReverbNation
Decimation @ Facebook
Decimation @ Bebo
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Decimation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.