8 Different Bands:

1) Decoy are ex-jazz musicians Ian Chaplin and Philip Rex, who hail from Melbourne, Australia and play progressive psytrance. Being trained musicians their music also consists of real instruments -- contrabass, saxophone, piano, drums, bass guitar and percussion.

In addition to two albums and tracks on numerous compilations they have also collaborated with Son Kite's side-project Minilogue.


2) Decoy is a metal band. Call Of The Wild is the debut album by a great new Swedish Melodic Rock outfit, Decoy. Initiated as a collaboration between songwriter and guitarist Torben Enevoldsen (Section A, Fatal Force) and vocalist Peter Sundell (Grand Illusion), after Peter felt the urge for a change and left Grand Illusion in May 2005 to team up with Torben for this new and exciting project. Torben commenced with the compositions for this album in December 2005, which are best described as fitting the Melodic Rock genre with a slight touch of Progressive Hard Rock.

3) Decoy is a finnish alternative/rock/metal band formed in 1995.

4) Decoy is a 4-piece aggressive post-hardcore band based out of southern CT. They formed in August of 2001 and have released 4 independent cd's. They have shared the stage with personal favorites and national acts such as BigWig, Near Miss, Over It, Agent Felix, the Goodwill, In Pieces, Kill Hannah (Atlantic Records), Fallout Boy (Island Records), Beautiful Mistake, the Skeptics, Prevent Falls, Bayside (Victory Records), the Pennyroyals, and many more.

5) Progressive Psytrance project.

6) Decoy are a jazz trio consisting of Alexander Hawkins on Hammond Organ, John Edwards on Double Bass and Steve Noble on Percussion.

7) Dhanya Pilo (aka Decoy) is a visual artist from Mumbai, combining film making and photographic skills with her signature digital art and video projections ( http://myspace.com/dhanyapilo and www.dhanyapilo.com)

8) A swiss rock band, with a 1990 release, 'Somewhere.

Bass – Thomas Graf
Drums – Martin Kutter
Guitar – Richard Eigenheer
Keyboards – Thomas Wälti <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Decoy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.