From The Oficcial Site:
4th November 2000: Andi (guit) and Polsi (voc) founded the band on an underground concert. Shortly after this we started to practice and released our first demo CD “Graceless Cruel Noise” in January 2001. The CD is total shit and we received tons of bad reviews! We didn’t have a drummer at this time, so we used a simple drum computer. The sound was really awfull and the songs didn’t have good structures at all.

In May 2001 Polsi joined Exterior, a raw and aggressive Death Metal band (http://come.to/exterior) and did some gigs. Decomposed Cranium did a short break at this time.

Some months later: Peter, which is today a good friend of us, joined the band in late August 2001 as drummer. With him we recorded a free promo CD called “Ignorance is worse than hatred” and played our very first gig in Völkermarkt on 31th December. We played as support band for At Lilith’s Court, a local Black Metal band.

In July 2002 Peter left the band because of a lack of time and musical differences, but he was immediately replaced by Tomi (drummer of Exterior). We started to write songs at motorspeed and recorded another demo CD called “Fucked Up But Alive”. The reactions of press and fans were really cool and we did some further gigs. The CD has got a much better sound and is much faster than all our old shit. For this CD we also recorded a coverversion of Impaled Nazarene’s “I am the killer of trolls”, which is always a highligth at live gigs. We still haven’t found a bassist, but we don’t care anymore. The advantage is, that there is much more room on the stage without a bassist, haha.

In February 2003 we started to record our new full length album "Diagnosis:Sick", which is available for € 7,-. For booking or orders please visit the Contact-Site.

In October 2003 we finally found a very cool bass-player and he fits perfectly to the band. His name is Harry and he is also bass-player in the local underground band Stud. With him we did some more shows, e.g. as support of The Crown in Innsbruck. Currently we plan to record the follower of "Diagnosis:Sick". The album title will be "Caged in Chaos" and it will be released in February 2004.

Today our line up is: Andi - guitar, Polsi - vocals, Tomi - drums, Harry - bass. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Decomposed+Cranium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.