Decomposed God aims to promote the destruction of sacred icons through their dangerous and extreme music.
Founded in 1991, as Decomposed, one of the most important bands in the Brazilian Death Metal scene, Decomposed God built a substantial underground following over the course of the '90s with a powerful based sound.
In 1992 issued their debut demo-tape “Key of Immortality”. In 1993 joined the cast of the compilation “Noise Core – Death is Just the End…”, released by Tarkus Records. In 1994, the band issued “Dawn of Celestial Shadows”, not only a more consistent and technically accomplished record, but also a much more original one.
In 1995 joined the cast of another compilation “Omnisciens – Tributo ao Dorsal Atlantica, released by Rock Shop Records. Was very important integrate this compilation. Therefore, it was a tribute to one of the most influential bands of Brazilian Metal. Were present also HeadHunter DC, Genocídio, Restless, No Return and many others.
In 2000, finally was released the first Decomposed God’s full length, "The Last Prayer". While “The Last Prayer” slipped through the cracks in some Death Metal headquarters, enough underground worshippers heaped praise on the record to build Decomposed God following.
Decomposed God braved 17 years through many lineup changes and tours, sharing the stage with bands of world-wide success like Sepultura, Krisiun, Incantation, Iconoclasm, Sadistic Intent, Possessed and Brazilian underground bands like Dorsal Atlântica, Overdose, Torture Squad, Subtera, Headhunter DC, The Ordher, Vulcano, Hibria, Queiron and many others.
The Northeast Death Metal Institution has returned to obliterate the holy with its newest release, “Bestiality”. A solid record, that sets a standard of quality and production for all others to meet.
Chaos reigns…

current line-up:
Jean Marcel - bass
Marco Antônio - guitar
Ricardo Moraes - vocal
Wagner Oliveira - drums

source: Band's MySpace Profile <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Decomposed+God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.