Why? is available on the free compilation album city of screaming spires: vol 1

DEDLOK was originally formed in March 2006 looking to strike out at the dwindling metal scene with some fast riffing, fret wizardry and double bass action. The line-up first consisted of a dual vocal assault featuring Mark Wells and Joe Samuels; Jason Porter (Drums) and Adrian Irving (Rhythm/Lead Guitar) regimented the first back-line arrangement.

Shortly after the first line-up was formed conflicts in musical direction quickly arose, this resulted in Mark leaving to form Stack of Hamsters. Following Mark's exit, John Rainnie was recruited late April 2006 following the break-up of Suffer the Fall. At this point, the band turned itself around and started to focus on it's own material with new recruit John leading the way. The new incarnation quickly lead to the first track Realise.

Later that year Joel Wheeler (Bass) completed what is now the current line-up, following his departure from De Profundis, this was a logical choice for the band as John had worked closely with Joel in Suffer the Fall previously.

Towads October '06 the first Demo session was recorded, featuring 'Dedlok', 'Protest' and 'Realise'. This received acclaim from the local music magazine Night Shift, "The name screams METAL! So it does indeed come to pass!" and built up the initial ranks of our current fan base.

The first gig with Chokehold in High Wycombe was a success and has paved the way for a consistent line of gig dates there after.

Following the road more recently, the Premonitions E.P was released as a self-financed project in February '08, introducing some of the bands most challenging material yet, demonstrating that the DEDLOK juggernaut is starting to gather significant pace. Tim Turan was chosen to master the E.P following his well recognised work in the field. Shortly after this release, the band completed their first music video based on the track Why?.

As of 25th of July 2009 DEDLOK parted ways with drummer Jason Porter and The Crushing's, Peter Penos Bougourd was drafted in as a temporary drummer for the rest of 2009. 2009 was a very long and disheartening year for DEDLOK and as of 19th of January Joel Wheeler parted ways with DEDLOK just as new drummer Dave Rickett had joined. The search for bass player did not take long and as of the 6th of February 2010 Retribution's "Farmboy" joined the ranks.

In all, DEDLOK carries the likes of many 'old' and 'Nu' school influences on it's shoulders, the new alliance in sound forged by these genres, injects some new life into old guitars. 

http://www.dedlok.co.uk
https://www.reverbnation.com/dedlok <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dedlok">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.