Dee Goodz was born on June 5, 1987 in the streets of Baltimore, Maryland. One can honestly say that a Star was born on this day. It was obvious when Dee was a child that he was a natural born entertainer. Growing up he never settled for anything less than great, having the attributes of a go getter and a competitor. Whether he achieved in sports or school, he was going to be acknowledged as the best, which is the same as his drive within the music industry. 
Many of Dee’s ambitious skills were influenced by his mother, Bennetta Goode who was a school teacher. She greatly enforced education, which was a must in her household. School seemed to be the safe haven for the inner city youth of Baltimore City though, tragedy occurred for Dee while he was in the eighth grade. It is here when Dee witnessed the murder of his close friend. One would think that this could have deterred him from his dreams; however, this only made him have bigger dreams. He refused to be a young black male statistic, and made up in his mind that he would attend college and make something of himself. The tragic murder of his friend led his family to depart to Nashville, Tennessee where Dee finished out high school. You could call this a fresh start for Donald. It was a huge transition, coming from “Charm City” to the home of Country Music, but he adapted to it. 
Dee even went further south when he later attended Alabama A&M University. Even here the hardships still continued to roll in. While in college, Donald developed the love for music and started taking it serious. It is here where Dee tried to incorporate his rapper “swag” and inner city style with his school boy qualities. 
At the peak of Dee finally understanding what his purpose was, and months away from graduation, Dee became a father. After becoming a father, Dee realized that he wasn’t alone in the world anymore and began to go full force with his career. He refers to this as his confirmation from God of what his true purpose was. 
He is currently working on a mix tape entitled “College Kids & Dropouts”, which tells the story of a college kid who could have allowed his mistakes to push him to drop out; however, he understood the bigger purpose and stood tall. This is exactly what Dee did, though many obstacles were thrown his way, he caught every last one of them. Unlike many rappers today, Donald did not allow poverty, sex, drugs, alcohol, or jealousies affect his situation.
His own personal journey to his dreams, distinguishes Dee from many others within the industry. This is only the beginning to what will be known as the “Dee Goodz” story. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dee+Goodz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.