A Brutal Death Metal/ Deathcore concept formed at the beginning of  November 2003 at first with "Vincent" the first Guitarist and "Nicolas" the drummer.

Little time afterwards, "Stephan" the Bass player was grafted with the group like "Julien" the 1st singer.

After several tests of guitarists, 4 to be precise, "Gordon" the second final guitarist came to join  the adventure.

The final line-up was born about Mars 2004, meanwhile the first titles of
 "Deep in Hate" were built and the group was consolidated in friendship. 

The majority of the members of the group did not know themselves before joinning  ‘Deep in Hate’,  a fact that did not facilitate the task to obtain a good general agreement. 

Each member of the group comes from a different musical current: of Death Metal, of Black Metal, Hard-Core, and ska/jazz. Thus came to this diversity which makes the force and the originality of the group. 

The spirit of "Deep in Hate" is based on an intelligent mixing of various currents of extreme Metal. 
An upright formation, without stereotypes of appearance, without politics, only with the desire for spreading the style "New School" on the extreme Metal scene. 

Why "New school", because it acts to deliver a rough music of dismantling while being modern in its composition and its interpretation, without fitting into a definite pre mould as it is the case for many groups of Metal. 

The entity of "Deep in Hate" is found as well in the riffs Metal/Machine as in the verses " Hard Core" or in the passages of "Death-Metal". 
This unit makes it possible to obtain a great force of exploitation and a pure brutality, musicalewise. 

Even if we do not claim to revolutionize the extreme Metal Music, we provide all the same a key of freshness and innovation in the mixture of the styles. 

March 2005 : After one year spent within Deep In Hate "Julien" comes to be replaced by "Sebastien" (ex-Slavery) who from now on will continue the road with us.

August 2005 :
After a little more than one year spent within the group "Gordon" the second guitarist does not make any more part of Deep in Hate because of primarily musical divergences.
  We wish him good continuation for its other musical projects, and let us greet we it for his bit of a walk among us. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deep+In+Hate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.