The man behind Deetron is Sam Geiser (1978) born and still living in Bern. He first got into contact with music during his early childhood, for his father is a Jazz musician. His big youth passion, however, was HipHop. He was fascinated by the likes of Gang Starr, A Tribe Called Quest, Prince Paul but also by Todd Terry?s early HipHouse tunes or Detroit techno originators Juan Atkins and Kevin Saunderson. After having bought two turntables and a mixer, he began deejayin? Hip Hop in 1992.

The deejay culture of the Hip Hop movement was his link to electronic music. He started deejaying at different clubs all around Switzerland and became resident at the world famous Club Trax @ Rohstofflager in Zürich and got well known for his 3-deck mixing skills and sets blurring the lines between Techno, House- and Detroit-classics.

He made his first sound experiments with a sampler in 1994 and from then on continuously built up his own studio because of his avid interest in electronic sounds. An introduction to Stefan Riesen from Phont Music in 1997 led to his first release as Soul Mate on Phont Music. He then travelled to Japan for deejaying in 1999 and recorded the ?Double Exposure Vol. 1? EP with DJ Shufflemaster in Tokyo, again for Phont Music.

In the year 2000 he was contacted for an EP by In-tec records where he released the very successful ?Alien Entertainment EP? which was hammered by the likes of Jay Denham, Claude Young, Jeff Mills and Laurent Garnier and attracted attention from press and listeners worldwide.

In 2001 ?Dolls for a diva? was released on the highly acclaimed Music Man label in January, the start of a strong relationship with this label from Belgium. New EP?s followed on Dave Angel?s Rotation (Vertigo EP), Jay Denham?s Black Nation/Sector 616 (Dancing manual EP), Steve Bicknell?s Cosmic (as Karakter), Ongaku (Lorraine EP) and Phont Music (Cut Back EP). Sam remixed Samuel L. Session, Ben Sims, Damon Wild, Steve Bicknell (as Karakter), K-Alexy Shelby, Orlando Voorn, Paul Mac and others. His energetic DJ- sets reached clubs in Holland, Belgium, England, Germany, Austria and a promotional DJ-tour in Australia took place in July 2001.

After the Outerworld EP on Music Man and several remixes in early 2002 the highly acclaimed debut Mix-Compilation by Deetron has been released in June by Music Man, which gained a lot of praise from press worldwide and gave his worldwide DJ-Schedule a boost by making it as hectic as never before. He travelled to Spain, Croatia, France, Belgium, Holland, Australia, Singapore, Japan, China, Czech Republic, Poland, Macedonia and more places all around the globe. The anticipated cooperation with Samuel L. Session released in July on SLS, remixes for Ben Sims, Damon Wild and Gary Martin amongst others highlighted his production work. Deetron will start the new year with a brand new single coming out on Music Man in February, including the tracks ?Body Language? and ?Uncutfunk?. Furthermore he is preparing his Debut Album for Music Man to be released in 2003 and remixes for Vince Watson and Mark Broom. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deetron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.