There are a few bands with the name Defenestration:

Defenestration were a UK metal band from 2000 to 2004, based in Kettering.

They were fronted by female singer Gen Tasker and other members include Jamie Thompson on guitar, Scott Warner (bass), Rob Reeves (guitar) and Kieran Brain (drums). Former members include Stuart Bruce, Stacey Maher & Ben Gordelier. Jamie Thompson has since joined Raging Speedhorn. Gen Tasker has gone on to become lead singer of a new band called Thracia

The band's first two albums were released on Dreamcatcher Records. Their final release, the mini-album For Us It Ends When We Drown was released on Rising Records.


The other Defenestration was born in Norman, Oklahoma: a college town whose other '80s musical export is the astoundingly strange Flaming Lips along with 90s indie darlings Starlight Mints. Defenestration had an approach to complement their odd name (it means "the throwing out of a person or thing through a window"). Lead singer Tyson Meade was weaned on B-movies, Janis Joplin and the Birthday Party; the rest of the band combined influences from T. Rex and Cheap Trick to the Byrds. 

Defenestration released two albums:Defenestration EP (Slow Iguana) 1986 and Dali Does Windows (Relativity) 1987. Cross-dressing singer Tyson Todd Meade crawled from the wreckage of Norman, Oklahoma's Defenestration to form Chainsaw Kittens. 


The other other Defenestration is an industrial band currently residing in Phoenix, Arizona. Their biggest hit, "Robot Attack", definitely shows influence from a post-industrial-grunge-shred world.

The other other other Defenestration was an influential punk band (also punk metal, or petal) from Columbia, Maryland. 

There was also an Australian post punk band called Defenestration active in the 1980s who release a single entitled "Kill Kennedy again." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Defenestration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.