There are more than one band with this name: 

1. Black Death metal band from Croatia

DEFIANT was originally formed Požega, Croatia in 2005, by Beretz (guitars, vox) & Kris (guitars). With much musical experience from the past they began writing material with lots of melodies, harmonies and dark lyrics. The main idea from the beginning was to play melodic death metal with Swedish influences. When Bole (bass) and File (drums) joined the band, line-up was finished. Defiant have developed their own and more commercial form of Death metal with groovy rhythms, melodic riffs, well played guitar solos and an aggressive vocal in focus. 
After lot of concerts and festivals, played with high-energy performance, the band made their debut album "The End of Beginning" in the autumn 2006. Debut is loaded with killer riffs, dueling guitars and neck breaking tunes. "The End of Beginning" was produced by File at Studio Depth with Defiant crew. The general feedback, was very positive. The energy that Defiant transmit live is captured on this high quality recording. 
Between 2006 and 2008 Defiant have played around 100 shows and had three European tours.
In 2008 new promo stuff called "Promo 2008" was recorded for the upcoming album "Without Religion There Is No Fear", but because of some problems the band was forced to split-up.
After the band split-up in 2009, while everything was on hiatus, Defiant's founder worked on some new music, more brutal than the previous stuff.
The year 2011 marked a new beginning for this band; they recruited new blood and after a few shows, Defiant’s new line-up was ready to record a new album "Era of Substitution", which was more extreme than the previous work of the band.
In 2012 Defiant signed for Grom Records.
In 2015 Defiant recorded their third album "Morbid Spiritual Illness" with their new line-up following a two-year break. The album was recorded in Studio Armageddon and Defiant signed with Swiss based label "Miner Recordings".
This January, Defiant recorded material for their upcoming new album "Insurrection Icon" in Hellsound Studio in Czech Republic with the new vocalist and lyricist Tomislav Debelić.

2. Heavy Metal band from USA with a female vocalist.
3. A metallic hardcore band from H8000 scene Belgium.
4. XVX Hardcore band from Helsinki, Finland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Defiant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.