DEFLORE is an explosive mix of electronic grooves, heavy'n'distorted instruments and psychadelic-noise atmospheres. A style the band use to call: "human indu(b)strial". The industrial instrumental duo project DEFLORE, represented by master-minds Christian Ceccarelli and Emiliano Di Lodovico, start in 1999, and suddenly receive a big feedback from the local and european underground scene.

The quality, originality and power of their live shows as well as the great feedback demonstrated by magazines, webzines and load of radio plays, suddenly catch the interest of Independent record label Subsound Records, that sign them during 2004 to produce and release their next album.

Recorded and mixed at Subsound Studio (Rome, Italy) and mastered by Mika Jussila at Finnvox Studios (Helsinki, Finland), "Human Indu(b)strial" is their explosive debut album. Released on November 2005 the album received a big feedback from European press and especially from Germany with top scoring reviews, features and articles.

During December 2005 the band performs in Rome as opening-act to the show of Alexander Hacke (charter member of Einstürzende Neubauten) and in April 2006 the song “Experiment C-Low” was featured on Sonic Seducer Magazine’s free covermonth cd and for EDEL's digital compilation “I-ndipendente” on i-Tunes.

Between 2006 and 2007 DEFLORE’s music appears on several independent compilations: “The Kill Compilation” vol. 1 and 2 (USA), “Bad Acid Magazine” dvd compilation (UK), Neuroprison compilation “Stones from the sky” vol. 1 (IT). In 2007 KNVBI Records produces a limited double vinyl version of "Human Indu(b)strial" (with two exclusive bonus tracks) for the USA audience.

At the end of Summer 2007 DEFLORE come back to Subsound Studio to work on new material with sound engineer Andrea Secchi. Mastered by John Golden (Neurosis, Primus) at Golden Mastering Studios (California,USA), Egodrive has been released on March 2008. With the participation of Erol Unala (Apollyon Sun, Celtic Frost) and the graphic concept work of the video artist Petulia Mattioli, DEFLORE’s new album is the dark, powerful and evocative demonstration of their innovative approach to the music: twelve new songs for twelve different states of mind!!

DEFLORE line up:

Christo: bass, programming
Emilionero: guitar, noises <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deflore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.