Deflagration was Formed in 1996 by four drunk chaps who loved metal. Ten years later and countless hangovers nothing has changed. Their combination of hardcore and old school style metal has kept them at the forefront of the metal scene throughout the Ohio and surrounding areas. 'Gration has had the privilege of throwing down with some of today's finest metal supremes including: Fear Factory, Chimaira, Six Feet Under, Pissing Razors and Dog Fashion Disco, to name some of their favorites. (They are still waiting on a callback from Slayer......fucking bush league voicemails.) In 2002 Deflagration released their debut album The Pain They Can't Forget. The album was received mightily by metal fans everywhere and was awarded a handful of excellent reviews regarding the songs and its production. Since then the band has gigged extensively in support of it and continues to try and reach a new audience and meet new fans everywhere. In 2005, the Gration had a lineup and brought in a new lead guitar player and a new bass player. As usual with new things, the Gration are very excited about this new group and are looking forward to bringing this "fuck machine" to the fans. With new songs being written and a new album almost ready to record, things are have never looked better for the sons a' bitches. Their message and motivations are simple: to deliver the most bone shattering, rawest, girthy, in-ze-face heavy metal that we are capable of, and we will do this with more respect and honesty than any other metal band out there. We take care of ourselves and our fans. We play music for ourselves - we play in this band for the fans. We love to play for them and will always strive to deliver the best packaged metal brutality we can conjure up. After all, it's what the Outlaws require us to do ... and we cant let our fans down.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deflagration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.