Defleshuary is a death metal band from Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  The band was formed in 2004.   It was formed by Rick Shirk (vocals, guitars).  Shirk says that Defleshuary started off as a ripoff of Mortician.  Shirk is currently the only member in the band.  Past members of Defleshuary are George Fava (guitars), Kerm (guitars), John L. (bass), Tim Ashley (bass, drums), David B. (drums) and Steve Fales (drums).  Defleshuary's lyrical themes include horror, brutality and gore.   The first demo Feasting on Torso was released in 2004 and everything was recorded by Shrik.  It was limited to 100 copies.  It is not known which past members were present on the releases after the first demo.  

In 2006, Defleshuary released their first EP entitled Mutilated and Skinned Alive.  It was released independently.  In December 2006, the 2nd demo You Could Wake up Dead Tomorrow was released.  It was released by a record label called Homicide Watch.  On January 23, 2007, they released their 2nd EP Zombie Plague, Rampant Horror.  It was also released by Homicide Watch.  The 2nd EP has all songs from the first EP and two new songs.  It was released as a CD-R.  In 2008, Promo 2008 was released independently.  It consisted of three songs that were going to be released on an upcoming split CD.  

In 2009, Defleshuary was included on a five-way  split with Decrepit Womb, Cumbeast, Down from the Wound and Heinous Killings.  It is entitled Fermenting in Five-Way Filth and it was released through Pathologically Explicit Recordings.  Shirk wrote a status on the Defleshuary Facebook page on February 12, 2012 stating the band is on an indefinite hiatus.  On July 18, 2012, From Feast to Filth was released by Sevared Records.  It is a compilation that contains Defleshuary's full discography.

Facebook
MySpace
Official website @ Archive.org <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Defleshuary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.