Deichkind is a German band from Hamburg, which was founded in 1999 and originally consisted of MC Malte, Philipp, Buddy and the producer Sebi who died in february 2009. DJ Phono supports the band at their live shows. Their lyrics are often humourous.

The band first burst onto the German music scene in 2000 with their hip hop album "Bitte ziehen Sie durch". 
"Noch fünf Minuten, Mutti" followed in 2002. 

In 2005, Deichkind represented the German state Mecklenburg-West Pomerania in the Bundesvision Song Contest, a Eurovision Song Contest rip-off for German bands. They finished 14th from 15 entries.

MC Malte left the band in the summer of 2005, whereafter the group focused more on a style of music which they describe themselves as techrap (techno/rap).

In 2006 the album "Aufstand in Schlaraffenland" was released and Deichkind made a row of legendary performances at open air festivals in costumes fashioned out of duct tape, foil, flashing lights and inflatable toys. The song "Remmidemmi (Yippie! Yippie! Yeah!)" describes a house party that gets out of control and has become an urban hymn among German party-goers.

One of their most scandalous performances was at the Melt! festival in 2006 where the band spontaneously invited fans to join them on stage. Over 400 people jumped at the chance to party with the band to the song "Remmidemmi" (->youtube).
As of april 2008, Buddy has left the band to embark on a solo career and has been replaced by Ferris Hilton, perhaps better known as Ferris MC.
After the death of band member and producer Sebastian "Sebi" Hackert  on Febuary 21st 2009, Deichkind was not sure if they will be able to continue working together. He died at the young age of 32. 
But they came back in 2012 with a new release "Befehl Von Ganz Unten". Songs like "Leider Geil (Leider Geil)" und "Bück Dich Hoch" became german chart hits. 3 years later the band released their latest album "Niveau Weshalb Warum" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deichkind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.