There are currently at least 8 bands named Deimos:

1. DEIMOS 
Peruvian music band techno pop, electronica, synth-pop, new wave. 

influences 
Depeche Mode, Kraftwerk, OMD, The Cure, New Order, Celebrate the nun, Soda Stereo, etc.. 

history 
It started in 1994 as a small musical project between friends Salamanca (middle-class neighborhood of Lima, Peru); Jaime Ochoa, Rodolfo Delgado, Guillermo Ballardo, after years of listening to music New wave, they decide to materialize all the musical ideas they had in mind, which would begin to gather in the house of Jaime Ochoa who using a Yamaha PSR-680 Keyboard Rodolfo Delgado and voice would start in the composition of many experimental subjects, a few months after Joseph Fernandez admitted during this stage startup named after Deimos and create some of the emblematic songs of the group through its history "blue Gray "," Al Lying "" Mirror of your Love ". 
For 1996 joined the group and Toledo Aldo Cesar Tirado, whereby the training and the 1st big step in which Deimos disclosed in Lima underground circuits would be worth highlighting a feature of the group was to have 5 members on stage, which broke the prototype of 3 members at most between groups related to synthpop genre, is that all members of Deimos touched absolutely everything live. 
By then Deimos was composed by Rodolfo Delgado: Vocals, Aldo Toledo: Keyboard only; Cesar Tirado Keyboards and Bass; Jose Fernandez: high keyboards and programming, Jaime Ochoa; Vocals, Programming and Sampler. 
During this stage the group had 5 members, many of the iconic songs like mirror of your love, Watch and Hold you, A Eden, etc. were created. 
From 1996 to 1998 Deimos was becoming known in the underground scene in Lima mainly playing covers of artists who had influenced life, such as: Depeche Mode, Red Flag, Virus, Kraftwerk, Cause And Effect, The Smiths , Camouflage, Simple Minds, etc ... gradually begin to touch each presenting their own themes to stand out and Al Grey Blue Lie. 
For 1998 the Group members begin to lose for different reasons, Cesar Tirado leaves the group to move to New Zealand shortly after Toledo Aldo would go part of Leuzemia 
For 1999, Deimos reduced to 3 members continue appearing before their fans, and at this stage would be born subjects, continually, Moments, Darkness 
In 2001, again one more member would leave, this time Jaime Ochoa, founded member can go to USA to live, so the group is reduced to a duet between Jose and Rodolfo, during this transitional stage the two members who had left a series of presentations. 
For the year 2002 would enter Julio Garcia, who is given the 2nd training this time in voice Rodolfo Delgado, Jose Fernandez on keyboards and programming and Julio Garcia Keyboards, Deimos live during this stage of its richest stages during this year would publish a demo which would be sold illegally and why the group did not get any benefit, this demo had collection issues between 1996 and 2002, which contained the following issues: Blue Gray, Al Lying, a Eden, continually, Moments, Darkness, Maybe at dawn, Let me, Watch and Hold you, this demo was well received, which I take to be considered for new events. 
Par 2003 have their 1st major test of fire to be the opening act of the famous German group Melotron 1st Synth festival organized in Peru, this presentation by Deimos received rave reviews by the large audience. Also during that year would go to the city of La Oroya and before a full house would give their first concert, begin a very close relationship with the people of La Oroya (central Peru). 
Gradually Deimos would appear before a larger and larger public festivals, and being the topics "Perhaps at dawn" and "Let" the main issues and wing date remain the emblematic songs. 
Between 2004 and 2005 the vocalist Rodolfo Delgado is temporarily removed due to the birth of his son, the group is back together in late 2005. 
For this stage Deimos be presented in many festivals among which group participation as guest at the concert of the Swedish band Elegant Machinery, for this event would meet its published his new material among which the new single "Take My Hand" theme entirely in English and which has been considered a success among the public, and is fear "and" wherever you will go "
Between 2006 and 2007, Deimos would have a series of concerts among which may be mentioned the two festivals in the city of La Oroya in which share the stage with national and foreign groups before thousands of spectators, and would also be appearing as the opening act of the Historical Camouflage group. 
In late 2007 vocalist Rodolfo Delgado definitely makes the decision to leave the group to attend to personal matters. 
So in 2008 the two remaining members form a side project called Reaktor opening for Dro in his presentation in Peru, so the end of that year decided to continue with Deimos and have called for a new vocalist, and Enrique Huerta joins Deimos, thus begins the work of composition and remastering of classic and new songs for upcoming shows again. 

Active members: 
José Fernández (MF): Keyboards, composition, programming, vocals. 
Julio Garcia: Keyboards, lyrics, vocals. 
Enrique Huerta: Voice. 
Guillermo Ballardo (MF): logistics and IT support 

Inactive members: 
Rodolfo Delgado (M. F.): Vocals and lyrics. 
Jaime Ochoa (MF): Keyboards, composition, strings and choirs. 
Cesar Tirado: Keyboards, bass and vocals 
Aldo Toledo: Keyboards, vocals 

(M. F.: founding member) 

singles: 
Al Lying (1996) 
Grey Blue (1996) 
Mirror of your love (1997) 
Look at you and Hold you (1997) 
Continuously (1997) 
Time (1998) 
Darkness (1999) 
Maybe Al Alba (2002) 
Let (2002) 
Take My Hand (2005) 
Is Fear (2006) 
Secret Garden (2006) 
Where you go (2006) 
Buscándote (2008)

2. Producer and remixer, real name Igor Ceranic. Born in the capitol of Croatia, Zagreb, in 1988. His first interest in music (production) came at the age of around 13, when he assembled his first loops in cool edit and pro tracker. Few years later he was introduced to his still all time favorite sequencer and production tool - FL studio (or, back then, Fruity Loops 3).
After a year of learning basics of production, arrangement, songwriting and mixing, he eventually produced (in late 2004) his first track that wasn't immediately scrapped to recycle bin. Although his first productions were mainly trance tracks, he eventually moved away from standard 4/4 beat and started to deal more with downtempo and chillout tracks, and always with a certain experimental touch.

http://www.myspace.com/deimosyeahwoo

3. Deimos is a death metal band from Deva, Romania formed in 1994. The band released two albums: Insane in 1997 and Death Squad in 2001 on tapes.

4. Deimos is a Norwegian metal band, located in Jørpeland.  
Their influence is Manowar, Hammerfall, Metallica and Slayer.
They got very famous for the demo they released called"warrior of earth". This band had a great future, but they sadly disbanded a few years ago. Rip- Deimos!
Line-up:
Natt (bass, lyrics, banjo)
Blodbad (Rythm-guitar, vocal)
Grimskalle (Lead-guitar, whispering)
Steinkald (Drums, Cowbells)

5. Deimos is a thrash/death metal band from San Antonio, Texas. They released the album "Dead::Set::Soul" in 2006.
http://www.deimos-metal.com

6. Deimos is a Progressive Grindcore band from Oslo.
www.myspace.com/hypothermiadeimos

7. Deimos is also a mexican rock band formed 8 years ago by Diablo, Peluso and Ana.
http://www.deimos.com.mx

8. Deimos is a progressive/experimental metal band formed in 1999 in Moscow, Russia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deimos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.