The story of Deineltan begins in 1996 in Wedding, a district of Berlin, famous for its astonishingly high crime rate and cultural and social problems, when founding members Bozblind (German), JOD (Turkish) and Nicklas (Ghanese) find together. First beats, that were never released though, being made on an old Playstation one marked their first steps in experimenting with rap. In 1998 Taboe (or Tamas, Hungarian) joined the group and in 2000 they would start calling themselves "Deineltan" a name which just "came to our head" as one of the members said. South american rap influences can already be clearly heard in a time where this niche of rap music is rather unknown and infamous in Rap-Germany.

It takes two more years until they finally release their first, very anticipated, tape "Auf Kopf", which spreads their name far over the Berlin borders, because of its rather new approach to german rap with tripple-timed, stop-and-go lyrics and traditional "chopped and screwed" beats. "Killakinda" would lead them to even more streetfame, being used on a sampler from Berlin rap affiliates "Kaosloge", called"Einblicke 2". The tape "Auf Kopf" is considered as totally sold out and is a very rare and hard to get item for collectors / fans.

In 2004 the follower "Hals über Kopf" was released, including many live performances in and outside of Berlin, such as the Splash! event near Chemnitz, Europes biggest rap & hiphop festival.

2006 marked another milestone for the band as they released their third album entitled "Kopfschuss" and were featured on a DVD "Rap City Berlin" focussing only on the rap scene in Berlin. Deineltan quickly gained fame with their tracks "L-Bogen raus" and "Good job", both being featured on the sampler of the DVD which is included in the package. Lyrical themes are mostly everyday life, hustlin', any kind of drugs and social problems, be it the cops or enemy gangs in Wedding.
65 4 life!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deineltan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.