Deja-Vu, the Turkish hard rock band was formed in October of 1999 by Cenk Sönmez (Guitars), Kerem İşeri (Vocals), Ahmet Türk (Drums) and Mansur Asrar (Bass). 

The band started their carrier by covering widely-known songs. They soon started working on their own compositions. Their first composition was named "Hope". After Mansur Asrar's accident and his surgery the band had to account for a pause in their carrier. In the March of 2000, they began working on their own songs. Because of their foremost priority was making their own songs than covering songs, they began concentrating on their own compositions. With a common liking, they added a violist to the band. Later on, Darbuka ("Tomtom", Kerem Öktem) and Bağlama ("A Turkish folk music instrument with three double strings", Kıvanç Şenol) was incorporated to the band.

Deja-Vu performed their first concert in November of 2000. Afterwards they began arrangement for their recordings of first Demo CD. They recorded two tracks called "Star" and "Nothing" but these songs was never released.

In March of 2001, they showed up as the supporting band of the famous and significant Turkish rock group, Kurban, at Saklıkent (Ankara/TURKEY). That was an appreciable experiment for the band. After that concert Kerem İşeri (Vocals) left the band for his personal reasons.

After the summer holiday, their continued their labor with some member changes. The drummer Güntaç Özdemir was substituted for Ahmet Türk. The new bassist was Erce Tümerk (former vocals of PNF) and the new vocalist was Mansur Asrar. The violist Ceren had to quit the band for her education. 

The band performed their first concert with their new members in January of 2002 at Saklıkent. The favorable response of the audience drove the band for major goals. However the group had an another break by the reason of the guitarist Cenk Sönmez's health problems. In meantime, other members of the band were getting along with their individual projects and the "Bağlama" player Kıvanç Şenol was called for duty.

In the Summer of 2002, Cenk Sönmez and Mansur Asrar claimed for the band's reassembling but they failed because of other members' occupation and education issues.

Cenk Sönmez has founded two new members for bass and drums. Barış Bilgen was the new drummer and Tolga Nemrutlu was the new replacement for bass. Deja-Vu was covering three songs a week and in meantime they continued intensifying on their own composings. They achieved a repertoire including 26 covers and 12 compositions. With Mansur Asrar's recommendation, Görkem Karabudak (now Çilekeş's vocals) was appointed to the band.

Following three months, they performed three concerts. The new members and songs earned a significant interest by the audience. Later on they began working a new Demo CD. The band recorded their own song "Are You Ready?", "Yeter Artık", and Shaggy's "Hey Sexy Lady" cover was included in this Demo. This demo cd sold almost 100 in the first week after its release. Dream TV has introduced the band in their Rock Magazine tv show called: "YUXEXES" and their first video clip "Are You Ready" was aired few times.

Afterwards, the band has appeared on some organisations like Bilkent MayFest, Armada 1. Gençlik Festivali (The 1st Armada Youth Festival) and Saklıkent Corefest. In August of 2003, Kıvanç Şenol (Bağlama) has returned from army and rejoined to the band. In September, Mansur Asrar has left the band for his personal reasons. Cenk Sönmez took his vocalist title and Barış Orhan was the new guitarist, incorporating to the band. Along With their ultimate establishment, Deja-Vu has recorded a new demo called "Kendin Coş" (Entertain-Self) but the album has came up with copyright issues and its release was cancelled. 

After achieving the victory in a musical-competition in Turkey called: "9. Efes Roxy Müzik Günleri (9th Efes Roxy Music Days)" the band has made an agreement with Elec-trip Records, recording company in the 15th of January, 2005. They began recording of their debut "Kendin Coş" with the producer Oğuz Kaplangı, on 8th of January, 2005. 

The album has released on 27th of June, 2005 under the Elec-trip Records label.

Deja-vu & Parabol Productions Proudly Presents;

The Second Album' Sinir Ötesi Operasyon' is Out Now!
The First Video Clip 'Sahte Gözyaşı' on Tv's!!

Current Members:

Cenk Sönmez (Vocals)
Barış Orhan (Guitars)
Mert Tom Başarır (Bass)
Oktay Fıstık (Drums)
Dogan Yilmaz (Ethnic İnstruments) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deja-Vu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.