There is more than one artist with this name: 1) Without a doubt, one of Almighty’s biggest acts, with a string of club smashes to their credit, is Deja Vu Featuring Tasmin. The band who’ve been together for less than two years have already scored four Pop-Tip top 20 hits and have recently, rather fantastically, enjoyed their first American single in the US Billboard Top 75!

DJs and clubbers first heard Tasmin’s strong yet emotive vocal with the release of their first single, a dance version of Toni Braxton’s ‘Un-break My Heart’ which has been one of Almighty’s best sellers in the last two years. Their second single ‘Don’t Speak’ went one further being not only a Pop-Tip No.1 but also crossing over in both commercial recognition, with impressive sales in major retail outlets, plus getting a fair amount of radio airplay too.

In 1997, Deja Vu Featuring Tasmin chose a lesser known song to revise with Bette Midler’s classic anthem ‘To Deserve You’. On both sides of the Atlantic, Almighty supporters congratulated the team for taking this ‘hard-to-find’ song and making it a true crossover success — and the DJs loved it.

In 1998, with the mega-movie ‘Titanic’ taking the world by storm, Deja Vu again enjoyed a big acclaim with what is probably their best track. ‘My Heart Will Go On’ not only became a UK chart breaker but also hit the US Top 75. Licensed to US label Interhit, Deja Vu (minus Tasmin, as they are credited in the States), have given this new dance label (and indeed Almighty), their biggest hit to date.

In 1998 they were again back at the top of the league with a brilliant, pumped up version of Aerosmith’s hit ‘I Don’t Want To Miss A Thing’. In 1999, another 2 quality pop covers followed — ‘When You Say Nothing At All’ (the Ronan Keating song) and ‘If I Could Turn Back The Hands Of Time’ (the R Kelly chart hit).

Deja Vu also scored another club sensation with the Phil Collins masterpiece ‘Against All Odds’ plus the non-cover title ‘No Rhyme No Reason’ — both taken from their debut album. That 2xCD set album, entitled ‘Get To You’, includes both original tunes and the group’s better known remakes as well. 

2) Deja Vu was formed back in September 2000. In 2003 the band placed 2nd in the prestigous music competition Prix Føroyar in the Faroe Islands. From here on they started working on material, which was to result in their first CD - called ‘A Place To Stand On’.

The music is pop/rock with a twist of acid... Deja Vu aim to please with beatiful acoustic guitar and keyboard based melodies by luring the listener into a world of their own. There are two lead vocalists and songwriters in the band which makes the soundscape a bit schizophrenic, but it's always Deja Vu. They have played several concerts in the Faroe Islands and a few in Denmark.

Their debut album: 'A Place To Stand On' contains 13 songs and has a 156 page booklet inside with mostly pictures in it – taken by the band members themselves. The songs are simple and spacy with emphasis on little details and a "whole" listening experience.

3) German Epic Metal band with a similar sound to Judas Priest.

4) Deja-Vu is a Japanese progressive rock band that was formed at the Meiji University of Tokyo in 1984 under the name of Clashed Ice (Soon changed) by the talented keyboardist Motoi Sakuraba, the bass player and vocalist Tetsuya Nagatsuma and the drummer, backing vocalist Genta Kudoh (who also played in Vermillion Sands)

As most respectable Power Trios, DEJA-VU has a clear influence of ELP but also some leanings towards Italian bands as Balletto di Bronzo and the Japanese Gerard. During the next three years they toured and recorded their own material gaining fame and international recognition, but it’s not until 1988 when they were able to release “Baroque in the Future” their only album.

“Baroque in the Future” was recorded in 1988 but the Musea 1998 re-issue contains two bonus tracks recorded during a 1989 concert where they played with the French iconic band Atoll.

In 1988 Tetsuya Nagatsuma leaves the band and after a few moths of inactivity Tomoki Ueno and Ken Ishita join the band but during the recording sessions of a second album, DEJA-VU members split due to disagreements with the musical direction of the band.

In 1990 Motoi Sakuraba and his style clearly inspired in Keith Emerson and Eddie Jobson gain him a place in the excellent compilation album “King’s Board” album that boost his prolific career as soloist and allows him to release his first album “Gikyokuonsou” in 1991. He has since gone on to great prominence in composing and performing soundtracks for movies and games.

5) A progrock band from Moss, Norway. Active in the 1970s.

6) A melodic rock/ hard-rock band from Argentina. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deja+Vu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.