There are more than one artist called Dekadens:
1) The band described below.
2) Hungarian 80's punk band.

1) Dekadens first started with Becky (UK) and Janin (former AB4 and Zebre).

The two started composing their first songs with Bogdan Crucianu (former AB4) on bass, and Cristi Chirodea (Travka) on drums.
Shortly after, Mihai (previously in Nociv and Crize) joined on bass and Forin Dinu on drums.

During November through to December 2006, Dekadens produced and released their demo online, entitled "A Dekadens State of Mind", which was produced at Vita de Vie's production studio.

Dekadens played their first gig in February 2007. Since then, they have played a huge number of shows around the country in clubs, bars and festivals.

In June 2007, Dekadens released their first music video for "Midnight Star" on youtube, and played at Stufstock in August 2007.

As of April 2008, Bogdan Alexandrescu (Boddy) has been playing with Dekadens on drums.

The four released their debut album, "Kill and Tell" under the independent label "Roadrunner Music" on 6th June 2008, together with the help of New Folder, Next Dog Studio and Scrap Art Design.

In May 2009, Becky Elian decides to leave the band and moves to Canada, where she  continues her music career with the electro-indie outfit What She Said. Dekadens recruit Roxana Mocanu as their new lead singer and play the first show with her on June 20th 2009.

In October 2009, after conflicts between band members, Mihai, Boddy and Roxana decide to leave Dekadens and Janin remains the only member. In early 2010 he announces the new Dekadens line-up: Andreea Lupescu (vocals) and Florin Dinu (drums). Mihai is invited to re-join the band, but he denies the offer and Janin decides to use a sampler instead. The band's sound departs from the punk rock roots and becomes more electro.

Shortly after the come-back, drummer Florin Dinu leaves the band for the second time, being replaced by Andrei Petrila. This (Andreea Lupescu - vocals, Janin Pasniciuc - guitar and sampler, Andrei Petrila - drums) is the line-up that goes on to record Dekadens' second album, entitled "City Of Paper" and released on October 22th 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dekadens">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.