A few bands called Deliverance:

1) Deliverance is a band from Los Angeles, CA, USA. One of the more prolific Christian bands in the metal world, Deliverance spent their early days playing speed metal/thrash metal, quite similar to then-labelmates Vengeance Rising, before moving on to a more melodic/progressive metal style around the time of 1994's River Disturbance. They broke up in 1995, reformed in 2000, and after a few releases, broke up again in September of 2002. Deliverance recently reformed with a and is currently looking for a drummer to complete the lineup for an upcoming album and tour dates to commence in 2007.

Their official MySpace site is www.myspace.com/thebigdlives.


2) A heavy metal band with an old school black metal touch, formed in '86, UK
Discography:
Devils Meat 1987
Metalworks Personal Sampler 1988
Evil Friendship 1989
The Book Of Lies 1989
Ultimate Revenge 1993

3) A heavy metal band with elements of Death 'N' Roll originating from Boston, UK. They started up in late 2009 with the creation of their first song Shadow of Redemption, then later producing Defiance and Legion. They currently have plans to release an EP and start tours in Lincolnshire with the aim of "Bringing metal back to Lincolnshire". Their official site is: www.myspace.com/deliverancednr

4) Deliverance was a German-Canadian Christian pop and rock music band that was active in the 1970s until 1981. Danny Janz, Ken Janz, and Paul Janz formed Deliverance in Lorrach, Germany though the three were from Alberta, Canada. All three were raised in Basel, Switzerland and attended Black Forest Academy. Danny and Paul Janz had already performed together as "Danny and Paul" but joined with Ken in 1974 to form Deliverance — combining the "Janz Team Singers" with "Danny, Paul & Wayne" and created a dynamic new band. Guy Roellinger and Dave McSparran also joined the band during its history. The band released four albums before Paul Janz embarked on a solo career.
The group had a minor hit in 1979 with "Leaving L.A.", which reached #56 on the Billboard Hot 100.
After legal troubles concerning the band's name and a copyright suit the band named itself Janz and recorded a single in 1981 titled Steine which went #1 in German Charts. Still they were advised by their attorney not to record a full-length album yet.[1] The band parted shortly after that when Paul Janz left Germany to go back to Canada.

5) Deliverance is a sludge/post-metal/black metal band from Paris, France. First EP "Doomsday, please" available in vinyl only. limited to 300 copies. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deliverance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.