1) Thrash Metal band from Germany. They fromed in 1996 by  Christian Lindner -(Vocals), Christian Brehm (Guitars) , Ralf Enskat (Bass), Andreas Vonmetz (Guitars, left 1996/97) and Roberto Schmitt (Drums, left 1996).

2) Punk Rock band from Motriku (Basque Country) started in 1986 and disbanded in 1991. They released one demo tape, two albums and a live concert CD / DVD in 1991. They composed several popular songs like "Ezin Leike", "Ikusi eta ikasi" or "Boga boga". http://artxiboa.badok.info/artista.php?id_artista=26

3) Folk Noir band from London (listed on Last.fm as The DTs); with their debut album Thirst out in April  

4) Rock band from Belfast, Ireland. Although, they are listed in Last.fm as Delirium Tremens Rock.

5) Punk Rock band from Kutina, Croatia.

6) Raw hardcore punk band from Basque Country, released a demo "Que Se Vayan Ya!!!"  in 1984, which was reissued in 2008 titled "Presagio De Muerte"

1) Thrash Metal band from Germany.   The band released their debut "Violent Mosh Ground" after several line up changes with Schmit leaving for Andreas Schley and Vonmetz leaving for Patrick Weinstein in 1999. The band on this album featured choatic 80's inspired german thrash metal with a hint of progressive groove in the riffing. The next album was not released without any line up changes either with Schley departing for Jochen Steger (Absorb, Dryrot, Cronos Titan) and with that the band released a 2 track promo "Rot in Hell". After this the band began working on their follow up album "Thrashing Warthogs" which was released later in 2004. This album progressed the ideas from the first and was still holding to their roots thus the albumw as very well recieved by the fans and critics alike. Soon after this they ran into trouble with their label and self-released the EP "Drink, Kill, Fuck, Die - The Rock'n'Roll" in 2006 which caused a signing to  Merciless Records for future releases. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Delirium+Tremens">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.