Delinquent Habits (a.k.a. Los Delinquentes) is a Chicano hip-hop group. Formed in Los Angeles in 1991, they are known for their Latin-tinged rap, which is both melodic and hardcore. Their first album was executive produced by Cypress Hill member Sen Dog and featured guest appearances by Sen himself as well as Puerto Rican New York City rapper Hurricane G. Their second album, Here Come The Horns, again featured Sen Dog as well as Sen's brother, pioneering Latin rapper Mellow Man Ace. The melodic "Merry Go Round" featured the female singer Michelle. The group chose to focus more on hardcore rap on their fourth offering, "Freedom Band".

The group itself originally consisted of two MCs, Ives and Kemo, and O.G. Style as the DJ. Thus the group was often called "Los Tres Delinquentes" (In English: "The Three Delinquents"). In 1996, the group garnered international success with their first single "Tres Delinquentes" selling over one million copies. The success of the song pushed the group's self-titled album to nearly the same figure. Kemo soon left after the completion of their album Freedom Band to pursue a solo career with some substantial success. He was replaced by female vocalist Michelle, who had been previously featured in their songs

Rapper Ives makes one thing clear right from the start: "Delinquent Habits is no Old-School-Band, we are fresh and constantly looking for something new." On their new album "The Common Man" (09.10.2009) Delinquent Habits appear fresh for the first time in ages. The vibrant beats, the hot groove and the catchy lyrics make it clear: Someone knows how to rock the stage.

In the latter half of the 90's, Delinquent Habits along with Cypress Hill made it to the very top of Latin-Hip Hop. Rapper Ives and Kemo as well as DJ O.G Style combined Hip Hop beats with Funk and Miriachi trumpets and rapped in a mixture of Spanish and English called "Spanglish".

In 1996 they achieved a world-wide hit with "Tres Delinquentes". Their debut "Delinquent Habits" sold over 1 million copies and has achieved "hip hop classic" status the success of which is noticeable until this day. Sold-out tours in Europe and in the USA and four album releases, amongst these on their own label "Station 13, are testament to this impressive feat. Delinquent Habits live the crossover and show no reservation. The Matiachi-Rappers shared stages with different acts such as Beck, Korn and The Fugees. Their songs were used in various soundtracks, as well as computer games, not to mention sportswear giant Nike added the DelHab-Song "Return Of The Tres" to its TV advert which was broadcast world-wide.

After Kemo und O.G. Style pulled out, Ives is the last remaining member of the original band and now head and songwriter of Delinquent Habits. But this is no reason for Ives to mope: "Now I am able to have an input in all aspects of our music, beginning with the lyrics to the beats to the point of who I want to work with. This way "The Common Man" emerged, in collaboration with different producers such as Sick Jacken (Psycho Realm), Andre Horstmann (Pet Shop Boys, All Saints) or the Superstar DJs, which injected new life and ideas into the typical Delinquent Habits sound.

Ives finds his inspiration for his lyrics on the streets of his barrio and so on his new album "The Common Man", there is no mistaking - more critical and harsh tones next to the typical party tunes. This is reflected perfectly in the debut track, in which Ives denounces in a wonderful play on words society’s increasing egotism and the thieving mentality of the big bosses: "They livin high on the hog but they really just all swine''.
Nevertheless Delinquent Habits still know that there is also room for the light-hearted side to life, which is best celebrated with hot parties. Affiliated with phat vibes and hot rhythms like on "I Like It", girls dancing on the tables with free flowing tequila: Delinquent Habits are in the house! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Delinquent+Habits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.