If man weren’t a beast craving for power and supremacy…if man weren’t what it is becoming now, if the events weren’t the modern ones, the Delirium X Tremens would’ve never existed. Born in 1998, they bear many line up change finding a solid structure only in 2002.

The founding member of the band, Alberto “Ciardo” Da Rech and Matteo “Pondro” De Mori are joined by Fabio “Med” Della Lucia and Lorenzo Baldan on the guitars and Giorgio Murer on the drums. With this line up they give life in 2003 to mcd “CyberHuman”, recorded and mixed at Majestic Studios in Scorzè (Venice/Italy) under producer Marino De Angeli’s supervision. The sound moves around mid-tempo death metal territories, with an eye on modern sound; the lyrics are focused on science and human will annihilation. After the recording ,Thomas Lorenzi enters the band as a drummer and with a stable line up and positive album reviews the band begins an intense live activity that make them share the scene with bands like NECRODEATH, BELPHEGOR, ANCIENT, HYPNOS, GRAVEWORM, NOVEMBRE , ENSOPH, THE HAUNTED, THE VISION BLEAK and MASSACRE.

The Mcd has been re-printed by the Mexican label Asenath Records (www.asenathrecords.com) and is distributed all over central America allowing the band to increase the number of fans also abroad.

During Summer 2005 the band record the first full length “CreHated from No_Thing”, natural evolution of CyberHuman, with increased speed and violent rhythms making the whole work even more oppressive and obsessive. The advanced melodic lines give the record a malignant aura that melts morbidly with the lyrics. This time hate will be driven and made real in the distorted, sick personality of a scientist obsessed by the secret of eternal life and annihilation of human will. In 2007 the record is published under Italian label Punishment 18 Records (www.punishment18records.com).

.::L'uomo vuole spingersi oltre , attraversando confini pericolosi , confini proibiti dalla natura.. ..l'uomo sarà la causa della sua stessa distruzione::.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Delirium+X+Tremens">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.