There are two artist known as Delia:
1) Delia Matache alias Delia is a Romanian singer. She was born on February 7th, 1982. The genre of her music is dance and all of its derivates. We can notice some influences of R'n'B on a few songs from her latest album. Prior her solo-carrier (2003) while she was singing with Nick their genre was a fine mix of house and eurodance. She continued on the dance path.

She started to sign from early ages as soon as her talent was discovered. She graduated from the High School of Art "Dinu Lipatti" from Bucharest, Romania. This is the place where she studied piano and flute. She was thoroughly encouraged by her mother to follow her dreams on becoming a star.

Her music career started when she was in 11th grade on the duo-band called N&D together with Nick - basically, a duette; the name of the band came from the first letter of their names (Nick & Delia). They have launched 2 albums together (in 2000 and 2002), out of which more than a few songs were "hit-machines" and dominated the charts over the years. 

Her favorite artists: Café del Mar, Nelly Furtado, Gwen Stefani, Beyonce, etc.

Hobbies and things that she loves to do: small walks through malls, traveling to the mountains, watching movies (especially horror genres). She loves to drive and she has got her driving license since she was 18 (legal age when one is first eligible for the license in Romania). She drives a red Audi A4 and looks forward purchasing an SUV (almost surely BMW X3), though, that's just a plan for the future. 

In 2003 she decided to start her solo career and left the band. She released 2 albums until now and some of her songs were instant-hits and occupied pole position on local charts and radio stations each and every week. Some of her hits are the following: "Parfum de fericire," "Imi dai fiori," "Doar un joc" from her first album (2003) and "Listen-Up," "Secretul Mariei," and "Baby" from her last album (2007).

Right now she ranks between one of the highest rated stars in Romania. She's clearly one of the most desired divas. Certain local "men magazines" offered more than €10,000 for a photoshoot of her getting naked, although, she refused the offer. Her talent and voice is impecable coupled with a style and attitude that's unique. She gives off a vibe of confidence that's very impressive. 

"Parfum de Fericire" (2003) - translated: "Fragrance of Happiness"

Tracks: 
01. Parfum de fericire (Fragrance of happiness)
02. Ce vor de la mine (What they want from me)
03. Imi dai fiori (You are awe-inspiring)
04. Aprind, sting (Light up, blow out)
05. Da-mi dragostea ta (Give me your love)
06. Timpul nu poate fi oprit (Time can't be stopped)
07. Doar un joc (Just a game)
08. Make it last 
09. Vreau sa te simt aproape (I want to feel you close)
10. Simt (I feel)

"Listen-Up" (2007)

Tracks: 
01. Listen-Up
02. Ziua ta (Your [birth]day)
03. Secretul Mariei (Secret of Maria - theme song for a soap-opera) - featuring Smiley
04. Lacrimi pentru tine (Tears for you)
05. Vara asta (This summer)
06. Atat de fericita (So happy)
07. Tipa (Yell)
08. Baby
09. Prea high (Too high)
10. No No No
11. Ochii tai (Your eyes)
12. Sufletul meu (My soul)

2) Ukrainian band Delia exists from September 2005. Initially the group consisted of four participants: Anastasia (vocal), Sergey (guitar), Dmitry (bass) and Vitaliy (drums). In March 2006 keyboardist Lidia joined the band. She entered the group very promptly, easily and harmonically. Five of the musicians together began to realize their creative ideas seriously. Writing of the songs and arrangements occupies practically all free time. Beautiful lyrical female vocal, keyboard with the symphonic slope and rocking beats – key elements, on which the music of Delia is based.

Musicians of the band consider that trifles and details are the most important. That’s why besides the writing of arrangements Delia has a serious approach to the rehearsal process and musicians spend much time working off details and nuances.

The group records the lump of demo materials. Songs that had been spread out at the Internet were welcomed by positive references, comments and discussions of the creation of the band at different music forums.

At the end of December 2007 bass-guitarist Dmitry Bykov informed about his leaving from the group. The main reason – impossibility of the further combination of his professional activity in the field of chemistry with the music. From January 2008 Delia began to rehearse with the new bassist Mikhail Gudzenko and a month later restarted their concert activity. 

With the updated staff the band performed at the festival “Rock-Swallows” (Delia took first place and was invited to the final gala-concert), participated in the twin concert action “Razmorozka” (Kherson – Kahovka), played in Cherkassy. For the performance on the Tribute to Within Temptation the group prepared special program with a choir which consisted of both compositions of WT and own. In Summer 2008 Delia got Grand Prix of the festival “Rock-Swallows” and performed at the festival “Pro Rock”. In Autumn the band participated in an international festivals “Children Of The Night” and “The Global Battle of the Bands”.

Now Delia is preparing for making the first video and for recording an album.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Delia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.