There are 2 artists that share the name Dellamorte.





1: a disbanded hardcore/metal band from the west midlands UK



2: Swedish crust/death metal band

The Dellamorte Story

1986-90
The members of Dellamorte participates in creating the Swedish Death Metal scene in bands like Hatred, Uncanny, Beyond, Asocial and Uncurbed. The devastating machine of Dellamorte is starting to grow...

1990-93
Johan turns down an offer to join Dismember, to concentrate on the band who would later become Dellamorte - Interment. The focus was brutal, fast and crushing Death Metal. Two incredible brutal demos is the legacy of this fantastic band. But still better thing was yet to come...

1993-94
After a short period under the name Moondark, Interment is transformed into Dellamorte. The formerly style was preserved, with a good dose of raw riffing in the Motörhead-school added to their masterplan. Now the march was on... Johan was also guitarist in Fulmination '94, but beside he started to make the first Dellamorte songs.

1995
The demo "Drunk In The Abyss" is recorded in Studio Abyss, and it immediately leads to a contract with Finn Records. This "impossible to find" release stirred up quite a fuss in the underground scene in Sweden and recieved very good revievs everywhere. Their is a feeling in the air that something big is going to happen...

1996
Dellamorte enters the Abyss Studio again, and records their blistering debut "Everything You Hate" in just 4 days! This adrenaline-full record really sat the standard for brutal music to come, and blew some life into the sleepy Swedish Death Metal scene. Dellamorte takes their position as the most important underground band in sweden, and a bigger record deal is just around the corner...

1997
The 7" single "Dirty" was released on Yellow Dog, and soon led to a contract with Osmose Productions. Immediately Dellamorte hit the Studio Abyss again to put on tape the "Uglier & More Disgusting" album. This massive release was followed by loads of top-reviews and interviews, as well as participating on the mighty "World Domination Tour" together with Enslaved and Dark Tranquillity. This mighty tour proved that Dellamorte was indeed as brutal and dirty live as on record!

1998
Dellamorte can be seen and heard on the live-CD and Video "World Domination Live", and bring their Death Metal rocking mayhem into your livingroom! Dellamorte also performs regularly in Sweden with bands like Dismember and Edge Of Sanity. In August the now familiar Studio Abyss is taken in posession again, and the album "Home Sweet Hell" was finished.

1999
And now the gates to your own personal hell is about to open again, because Dellamorte is back to tear your soul apart! "Home Sweet Hell" is by far their most agressive and brutal release to date and is surely to please any follower of brutal music. Still the album contains an amazing amount of catchy riffing and grooviness. In short: if you consider yourself to be raw and brutal, this album is a must have!!!

2000
After "Home Sweet Hell" is was time for us to leave Osmose and looking for a new label. Dellamorte has already recorded a 4 track promo CD in Jonas own studio Blacklounge for sending it to other labels. It was be released as a 7" for Elderberry Rec (Swe). Kennet was back behind the drums this time and we decided to let Sonny go from the band.

Danny was in the famous competition and tv-soap "Baren" where Dellamorte also did a great performance. Daniel was one of the two finalists in the final, sadly he didn't won.

2001
Dellamorte goes on the slowengine. The "Fuck Me Satan" Ep was released. Still out of a label and hard to rehearsal. In March Dellamorte played in Karlstad with Vomitory.

2002
Nothing happened this year.

2003
The website was updated in August and with a new address: www.dellamorte.tk Waiting for a new recording and release!

2004
We did a reunion-gig in August for a friend on his 30years anniversary party.

2005
Still drinking...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dellamorte">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.