Before Delta Cepheid became a band, it was just a project by Michael Gasch and Christian Kucka. They jammed together and traded some ideas and techniques in playing guitar. After a while, they had collected enough material to write the first songs. Thus, the project turned into a band.
The challenge started to find skilled musicians, who should complete Delta Cepheid.
First of all, Ronny Garz (also in “Arche:Havoc”) was asked to play drums. At this time he was the drummer of several local bands and draw Delta Cepheid’s attention with his incredible way of drumming. After a short session together, everybody fully agreed that Ronny has to join Delta Cepheid.
At this time Michael was still playing for the band “Death Reality” and after they broke up in 2007 their singer Juergen Naumann was vacant, too. He was well known to the band through the local scene and after some trials, the band decided that he should take part in Delta Cepheid. Right know a competent bass player is still outstanding, but with Christiane Müller, Delta Cepheid obtained a great vocalist for backing and additional vocals. So the current line up was complete.
The band started with transcribing all the ideas they had collected over the time into songs. Rather quickly it turned out that this band found its extraordinary own style. It’s a mixture of brutal death metal and progressive elements, enriched with overwhelming emotional guitar solos, representing the bands trademarks. With the aggregation of the incomparable sound of the guitars, the unique drumming and the distinctive vocals, Delta Cepheid is outstanding compared to common Death Metal bands.
Join this band to immerse in the widths of the universe’s secrets.

Christian Kucka - Git (ex-Mortal Scum)
Michael Gasch - Git (ex-Death Reality)
Ronny Garz - Drums (ex-Fatal Embrace, ex-Arche:Havoc, ex-Blastard, The Last Hangmen)
Friedrich Beyer - Bass (Eternal Destiny)
Jürgen Naumann - Voc (ex-Death Reality) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Delta+Cepheid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.