There are several bands calling themselves Delusion. Quite a trademark controversy exists over this band name in the whole of the world. For those who did their research ...

The first band Delusion existed in the late 1970's through early 1980's and had at least one album release from the Australia (UK) region. This band stopped distribution of its products in the 80's and its trademark rights lapsed after approximately five years, depending on region.

The second band Delusion was established in 1995 after having conducted name searches and establishing the name as a business in Maryland-USA. Their right to trademark of Delusion was established through first-use commercial distribution of products bearing the name Delusion in over 28 countries worldwide through CD releases, magazine reviews, radio airplay, and more. The Official site for Delusion : www.delusiononline.com. This band is the progressive metal band with music from the the following releases : Delusion Sampler (1996), Powerquest: The Awakening (1997- KMI Records), Powermad Festival Compilation '98 (1998-Siegen Records),  Children of the Damned: A Tribute to Iron Maiden (1999- Adrenaline Records), and Tragedy of Regret (2004- Ravenhurst Records). The band features Phil Carnes (Desolate Angel), Keith Menser (Mystic-Force), Walt Downey (Surreal), and Doug Readmond (Unbroken). In 2003,  Delusion filed opposition to the use of the name Dillusion in case # 76417901 with the United States Trademark and Patent Office (USPTO). This led to a a four-year opposition proceeding which ended with Dillusion having to abandon their name and the Maryland-USA band Delusion winning right to file for official US Trademark which they have under Serial No. 77606378 (see www.uspto.gov). Through their distribution in a multitude of countries their trademark rights extend among North America, Europe, parts of Asia and parts of South America. Delusion are signed to Ravenhurst Records and their music is published through Mindwerx Publishing (BMI). Their 2004 release The Tragedy of Regret was distributed under license to Nightmare Records, earned honorable mention by Billboard for sales, and guitarist and songwriter Phil Carnes earned endorsement by Seymour Duncan pickups. Delusion are produced by Phil Carnes exclusively mixed by Drew Mazurek (Highview Studios) whose credits include Gwar, Linkin' Park, Nothingface, and more ... Delusion have been in studio since 2006 recording tracks for their upcoming 12 song CD Temple of the Divine, scheduled for international release 2010 through Ravenhurst Records.www.ravenhurstrecords.us

Now the trademark controversies ..... All the rest of the bands calling themselves Delusion, most have failed to respond to multiple requests to make challenge over trademark or cede use of the name to Delusion - Maryland USA. They are alleged infringors.

There is a hardcore punk band from Czech Republic formed in 1995.
www.bandzone.cz/delusion 
www.myspace.com/delusioncz 

There  was a reggae-punk band Delusion that melded their sound into the group now know as Living Dred in 2003. Possibly they ceded use to Delusion - Maryland USA ? The year is suspicious 2003, when Delusion-Maryland USA filed its US trademark opposition.

There is a polish progressive rock / prog metal group Delusion founded in Stalowa Wola, which changed name to Jellosea. They combine traditional metal riffs with charming vocals and influences of electronic music. Official site - www.delusion.art.pl. This band actually ceded use of the name Delusion to the Maryland-USA band and became Jellosea.

There are many others too many to list ... a controversy growing exponentially with the growth of online community music websites and the lack of trademark enforcement.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Delusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.