With an intense love and enthusiasm for every aspect of the music business – from producing to songwriting to deejaying to engineering – Demarco has his fingers on the pulse of almost every genre of the infectious rhythms of the world. Whether it’s reggae, dancehall, hip-hop, R&B, Demarco has written and produced for the best of them. Top names like Olivia, Styles P and Sean Paul have experienced his producing skills, while Bounty Killer and others have put vocals to his lyrics…and in between all that Demarco still finds time to do combinations with other artistes and record his own songs! Born in Portmore, St. Catherine in 1982, Demarco is a protégé of Ardenne High School. Growing up, he used to ‘play around’ on a sound he and his friends created called Future Disco. It was during that time that he found out he had a great love of music. That soon led to his performing on almost every community event in his Portmore area. At age 15 he would go to Cactus nightclub and perform every chance he got. In 1998, Demarco migrated to the United States…New York to be exact. But he never lost his desire to be involved in the music business. He soon moved to Baltimore where he hooked up with a friend who taught him the intricacies of creating music by showing him how to mix, use the keyboard, sequence…and all that complicated stuff. Demarco was so excited about learning about this other aspect of the music business that he was determined to someday produce music. But with no funds and just a dream, Demarco started doing whatever jobs he could get in order to buy the needed equipment, one piece at a time, to set up his own studio. Soon he had all the equipment he needed to build rhythms. And that he did…night and day, in between jobs, not getting any sleep, or food for that matter…sustaining himself with only the prospect of creating a wicked riddim. When he was through with each masterpiece, he would sell the beat to rap and dancehall artistes and at other times he gave them away in a bid to promote his talent. It worked! It really did! All that long, hard, sleepless, foodless hours in his customized home studio began to pay off. Demarco started to get attention from artistes and managers who wanted him to build rhythms for them. But with limited cash resources, it was challenging to take his talent to that other level. Little did he know that his luck was about to change. A friend who was quite impressed with his talent introduced him to Star Kutt Music. The principals behind the company checked out his work and immediately decided that he was worth the investment. Demarco has not looked back since. Demarco and Star Kutt became synonymous. As impossible as it sounds, he began working harder than before, putting out a lot of boom rhythms in keeping up with his full calendar of commissions. He created rhythms for Styles P and Free from 106 & Park, as well as having two rhythms on Elephant Man’s ‘Good 2 Go’ album. He also made numerous beats alongside The Soul Diggaz who are signed to Missy Elliot and were involved in the production of her last three albums. In between creating rhythms, Demarco found the time to pen lyrics for other artistes including Bounty Killer (‘Warlord Reloaded’ and ‘Hey Sexy Baby’). He also lent his vocals on a combination with Bounty Killer titled ‘Chap’, as well as Sizzla titled ‘Kings and Queens’. The talented young man has also done combinations with Olivia of G-Unit and Jabba of Hot 97 titled ‘ Lighters ’, and Styles P from the Lox titled ‘Tell Them Again’. But for all his impressive inroads into the rapping arena, Demarco has yet to make a strong impact on the dancehall scene, especially in his homeland of Jamaica. That’s why he is now in Jamaica…and will be here for a while…doing all it takes to ‘buss out’ big time on the scene. While in the tropical paradise he will be focusing on performing on quite a few events, putting out some music videos and, of course, still doing what he loves best – building rhythms. Presently he has three songs on the Star Kutt label, which are currently in heavy rotation on the airwaves – ‘Kings and Queens’, ‘Da Look Deh’ and ‘Lighters’. Also on the streets are the singles ‘In Da Streetz’ (Mikey Bennet’s Grafton label), ‘Get Behind Me Satan’ (Clive Hunt’s Fusion Island Production) and ‘More Life’ on Scatta’s Inevitable riddim which will be released on the Kings of Kings label. As his Star Kutt management states, Demarco is a young man with exceptional inborn talent. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demarco">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.