Formed in South Africa in 1994 by Brett Morgan, the band has undergone numerous face-lifts. Jamie, Lee and Chris joined in ‘95 after leaving own band “Bludgeon”. After many drummers the band delved into samplers and computers and started experimenting with the death metal sound and crossed it with hardcore techno beats to create Industrial Death Metal.

Demacretia started the recorded process with 2 demo CD’s, the first in 1997 entitled “Ebola” and the second in 1998 entitled “Formula For Fear” neither for release.1999 saw the release of Demacretia’s
first full length CD entitled “Core Hammer” on their self owned record label “Mental Echo Records” which is available through indy music distributors and the internet.

1999 also saw the release of 2 compilations featuring Demacretia: A Canadian compilation “The Alliance” featuring two tracks, and a South African compilation by Witchdoctor Records, “New Breed 1” as well as “New Breed 2” in 2000. A Demacretia track also appeared on the Canadian compilation, “Music4FreeCD” in 2000.

2001 was a quite year for releases, because the band was busy playing numerous gigs throughout South Africa and writing new material with new drummer Etienne Kruger, Ex-Metalmorphosis, changing the style by returning to a human drummer, but still using samples in the songs.

More compilations came in 2002 with another in the New Breed Trilogy by Witchdoctor Records and “Recorded History” from Emperor Multimedia. Demacretia went into the studios again and recorded 7 new tracks, including one previously unreleased track for the as yet unreleased album “Burning Away”. Also joining the band, with Lee’s departure to New Zealand, is Dean van Niekerk, also Ex-Metalmorphosis, on Guitar. Etienne left the band in late 2002, and the band is now looking for suitable candidates.

Mental Echo Records has completed the process of building a studio, for recording new Demacretia tracks, as well as local bands, and will be looking into releasing a new Demacretia full length album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demacretia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.