Thirteen bands with the name Dementia:

1) Japanese heavy metal / speed metal / thrash metal band formed in Tokyo in 1984. Change tags to Ｄｅｍｅｎｔｉａ please. The latest lineup consists of
Yoshifumi 'Hally' Yoshida - Guitar (United, X Japan)
Shigeru 'Giisu' Kosugi (founder of the record label Howling Bull Records) - Vocals
Takashi 'U.D.A.' Udagawa - Drums (Rommel, Tokyo Yankees)
Omii - Guitar
Toki - Bass (Rommel, Yokosuka SAVER TIGER)
and former member - Yasushi 'Taiji' Sawada - Bass (X Japan, Loudness, Kings, Dirty Trashroad, Otokaze, Cloud Nine)

Their back-catalogue includes
Dementia - Single, 1984
Struggle for Rebel - Single, 1985
Dementia Live! - Live album, 1985
Terror'll Come Tonight - Demo, 1987
Bang HardEP, 1987

2) Progressive melodic death metal band from Germany. It was formed in the year 1989.

3) Greek Uplifting melodic Trance project.

4)The now defunct Wisconsin based power/thrash metal band who did 2 demos and 1 full length CD titled "Recuperate From Reality" which was released in 1991.

5) German drum&bass producer from Berlin. Rouven Fehr is a producer of electronic music, most notably drum&bass. Since 2006 he released numerous tracks, many alongside Rregula from Australia.

6) Metal band from Finland, featuring among others Roope Latvala currently of Children of Bodom on guitar and HIM drummer Gas Lipstick on vocals(!). 

7) Polish death/black metal band Dementia was formed in Cracow, in 1999 by the following +
members: Sentinel - guitar, Hoffman - guitar, Sinnus - keyboards and Dysh-L - vocals.
Nearly three years later, after completing the whole Dementia staff, the group managed to record its debut demo "Dreams Of Forgotten Time". This recording has immediately gathered numerous positive and enthusiastic reviews not only in Poland but also abroad. The band has played many gigs at that time, mostly in Cracow, and the audience have always responded greatly to our sound.
However, the initial success of our music and the promising prospects for the recording of a new LP with even more demented sound and faster, heavier, more perverse and energetic compositions (which were almost ready at that time) did not protect our formation from the crisis that has finally led to its complete collapse in the year 2003.
Many personal changes that Dementia has suffered have broken our lines at the moment when the new LP was at the stage of recording in a studio...
The end of year 2007 brings forth the idea of the band..s rebirth and comeback on the musical arena. Sinnus,Dysh-L and Sentinel have gathered their forces to construct new and rearrange the older compositions. Dementia is alive and kicking in its nearly original form. The work of these musicians has been crowned with ten compositions that are already waiting for being recorded at the band..s own Demented Home Studio.
We hope for finishing the recording session as soon as possible and then concentrate all our efforts on the promotion of this wickedly heavy and aggressive product, which, let us hope, will reanimate the metal scene that seems to be going through a serious crisis lately...

8) French Technical Death Metal band, formed in 1992. They released two full-lengths: "In Core of the Dark Ages" (1996) and "Answer" (1998).

9) Australian Blues Band from Sydney.

10) Dementia are a fresh great old school metal band with a brand new sound from the Wolverhampton area.

11) Dementia is an icelandic melodic Metalcore band currently working on their debut album, they are age 15-17 and they are strongly influenced by bands such as Avenged Sevenfold, Metallica, Anthrax, Lordi and The Devil Wears Prada,

Current Members:

Eyþór: Lead Guitar
Kristófer: Drums
Finnsi: Rhythm Guitar/Screaming Backing Vocals

12) Dementia is a Heavy/Groove Metal band from Pakistan. It was formed in 2007.

13) dementia : uk82 punk band  from wallasey england .
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dementia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.