There is more than one artist named "Dementia 13":

1) Dementia 13 is a Death Metal project that pays tribute to Old School bands from that genre and also to classic cult Horror cinema. Each and every song and lyrics are inspired in a particular movie.

Three musicians from several Underground Portuguese Metal bands (Pitch Black, Holocausto Canibal, Biolence and Grunt) represent the main line-up while others help out as special guests (from Raw Decimating Brutality, Switchtense, Mindsnare -RIP-, Scarificare, Web and Antivoid).

Founded by Alvaro F., all work started around December 2010, when the process of composing and recording several songs for the band began. Later, four tracks were chosen to be featured on the debut EP called “Tales For the Carnivorous” released on Portuguese label Escaravelho Recs.

Christophe Szpajdel, better known as “The Lord of the Logos” was chosen to create the band’s logo, making the perfect fusion between Death Metal and old Horror cinema art. Other design works of Christophe include bands like Emperor, Corpus Christii, Desaster, Filii Nigrantium Infernalium, Diabolic, Enthroned, Moonspell, Covenant, Arcturus, Old Man’s Child, Borknagar, Melechesh among many others.

By the end of December 2012 a video teaser was released to the public which included scenes from the first official video-clip for the song “There Are Those Who Kill Violently” (taken from the debut EP). The video is inspired on Abel Ferrara’s 1979 classic movie “The Driller Killer” and tells the tale of a deranged killer that goes out on a killing spree that ends in bloodbath at a band’s club show.

LINE-UP:
Álvaro F. (Pitch Black): rhythm guitar
Marco S. (Biolence, Pitch Black): lead guitar
Z.Pedro (Holocausto Canibal, Grunt): bass

GUESTS:
N. Lima: vocals (live, EP & video-clip)
João R. (Raw Decimating Brutality): drums (live & video-clip)
Xinês (Switchtense): drums (EP)
Hugo S. (Antivoid, Scarificare, Unfleshed): drums (live)
R. Danin (Mindsnare): drums (live)

“Tales For the Carnivorous” EP is available on CD (23.03.13) and tape (TBC), although all music is available for FREE download at:

http://www.mediafire.com/?zzqbi7abzs1c496

“Tales for the Carnivorous” EP has been available for free download since 13.01.13. We believe our music is made for anyone who may enjoy it. We support bands, honest labels and everyone into Metal, music in general or other forms of art that deserve a chance. Buying this CD will help us in a lot of ways and will make sure we’ll be around for a few more years, delivering more music to you! We’re not in favour of internet piracy but we support everyone’s right to freely share music with whomever they want. Nevertheless, we encourage everyone to BUY the CD’s from the band’s you like and help Underground musicians to survive. We do that too!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dementia+13">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.