The story begins in June 2002 when Damjan Deurić (keyboards and vocal) and Darko Visković (guitars and vocal) started working on a couple of songs in characteristically gothic and acoustic manner (acoustic guitar, Hammond organ and deep male vocal). Damjan's sister Dunja helped them by singing back vocal in undefined voice.

With a couple of gigs and a few recorded demo songs, it seemed that everything will stay that way... In the winter of that year, Momir Tabački (guitar) and Vlada Mucalov (bass) joined the band and the work on the songs that would mark the following routh of DEMETHER started.

The problem of the drummer was solved just before the recording of the first single scheduled for January 2003 when Attila Benk (drums) joined the band.

The songs on the first single were publicly broadcasted for the first time on Radio 202 in April 2003 when the band was officially presented to the public, while the songs on the second single were presented in June 2003. DEMETHER works at speed and is getting ready!

The first gig was held in Zrenjanin in July. The performances at Refuse/Resist Fest in Kikinda and Hard'n'Heavy Festival in Belgrade followed.

In November 2003 the bassist was changed, and Nebojša Marinkov, the new bassist, joined the band. On their repertoire, besides their own songs, there are also a couple of cover songs.

The promo CD was also completed containing six songs: Sound of a Horn, Fairy Ring, Diving, Last Night, Silence and Ragnaröck.

In 2004, though the lead guitarist was in the army, DEMETHER won a couple of important rewards as the best demo band - Demo Masters Tournament in April and Zajecarska Gitarijada, the greatest rock fest in Serbia, in August. After that, songs for their debut WITHIN THE MIRROR were finished and recorded at Berar and Alpha studios in Novi Sad, during October and November. The album contains 12 songs, including 2 bonus tracks.

The band signed a deal with ONE RECORDS. Boris Cvetković, the new rhythm guitarist, and Branislav Kolarski, growl vocal, joined the band during the production of the album.

Debut album "Within The Mirror" is re-released in Mexico by Moon Records, during 2005 and it's reviewed on many websites and magazines including the MetalHammer, Powermetal, Legacy...

Demether released their second album "Beautiful" in 2007, but have been on hiatus since then. Their website is now defunct, leading to speculation that they have split-up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demether">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.