There are multiple artists with this name:



1) Demise is a Hardcore formed in 1987 from California.
      Myspace


2) Demise is a Black/Death metal band from the city of Elblag - Poland.

DEMISE was formed in early 1995, by L.Rambo (drums) and Sin (guitar). After a few months, Ozz (guitar & vocals) and Kons (bass) joined. With this line up, they started working on their music and style. In August of 96', DEMISE recorded the first demo, "Outcome of....." Professional sound, aggresive melodic songs and a lot of emotions, in black/deathmetal style. "Outcome of...", had great reviews in the underground scene, in Europe. DEMISE published this material by Immortal Records (also: Lividity, Corpse Vomit, Damnable...) at the beginning of 97'. Later, the band played several shows in Poland, from small gigs to large festivals.
Their first album-"Like a Thorn", was released in September of 97', by Metal Mind Productions (biggest Polish label), and shows DEMISE worth and talent. Many magazines called it the album of the year.
DEMISE has performed with the following bands: Vader, Dark Funeral, Gardenian, Hate, Christ Agony, Decapitated, Lux Occulta, Yattering and more.
At this time, L. Rambo, joined the band Moon, and did, "Satan's Wept" album on Pagan/Impact Records. After this time, it was a first line-up change for Demise. B-Low became the new bass player in DEMISE. In December of 99', the band recorded a second album-"God Insect" issued by Koch International/Demonic. After playing numerous shows, and doing interviews, the band started having problems with the manager and label. They were not able to do good promotion and distribution of "God Insect" . At this time L Rambo, started to play with another band, " Damnation". Thus, playing two Europeon tours with Krsiun, Hell-born and Spawn. On Sept. 11, 2001- DEMISE, recorded a two-song promo CD
and said "Good-bye" to the manager.
Now, Demise is looking for a new honest label all around the world.
In June 02', L. Rambo and Ozz came to the United States to find a "new future" for DEMISE. Before their departure they took part in a project called, "ENTER CHAOS" (With a well known Polish musician and female death metalvocalist-Martex). They did the album,"Dreamworker", on Metal Mind Productions and they played with DEMISE, at the biggest concert with Polish metal legends-"Acid Drinkers" (8000 spectators). In the United Stated, Ozz and L.Rambo met Sandi (Metal Mom) Newton.
She has been very helpful. Thanks alot !!
DEMISE is ready to show its power everywhere. Be ready

Full length albums:
1997 - Like a Thorn
1999 - God Insect
2005 - Torture Garden

Official Website

3) Demise was a short-lived thrash trio from London,Uk.

4) Demise is also a death metal band from Caracas, Venezuela and have been together since the early 90's. their sound is strongly influenced by old school bands such as Pestilence, Malevolent Creation, Grave and Unleashed. At the moment, Demise is still active and touring constantly. The band consists of five members:

Alvaro Parra - Vocals
Bernardo Konig - Guitars
Andres Buitrago - Guitars
Santiago Aquino, Bass
Keny Godoy - Drums

Discography:

Demo (2006)
Mode:Terror (2009)

http://www.myspace.com/demiseofficial

5) Demise was an old school death-metal band from Portland, Oregon. They formed in 1988 and released only a demo tape and an EP in early 90's.

Demise on Metal-archives

6) Demise was a death metal band from New Zealand, formed in 1991. They released one demo and one EP. The date of their split-up is unknown.

7) Demise was a sludge metal/death metal band from New Orleans, Louisiana. 

Begun in 1998 in the hellish confines of New Orleans, Louisiana, Demise immediately sought to write original music.  After a six-month search for members who combined musicianship with a dismal artistic vision, the band concentrated on creating a unique musical landscape to enunciate their dark vision.  Each member's singular influences began to blend the extreme styles of death metal with overtly melodic vocals and precision harmonies to create a unique style that paid homage to its New Orleans' roots while adding scathing elements of abuse and torment.  The style begins with a guitar tandem whose schizophrenic riffs set the basis, while the manic rhythm section adds the blast-beat and low end elements.  Vocal styles range from the ultra-low to a beautifully melodic approach, underlying the sinister lyrics focused around the underbelly of human existence.  Focused on the negativity of life, drug abuse, murder, mental torment. Demise encapsulates a fictional essence with a stark reality.  The band sets themselves apart by painting the actuality of the world rather than a picture simply for purposes of being unequivocally evil.  These facets were never more apparent than on the band's first demo, The Thirteenth Table.  Recorded at Festival Studios in Kenner, Louisiana (Acid Bath, Goatwhore, Soilent Green) by Scott Campbell, this first recording combined older material with a newer musical direction evident of the band's future.  After this release, Demise returned to its hurried schedule of writing music and playing shows, pushing the demo while continuing to debut new material.  In late 2001, Demise signed to Incision Records, who repressed the demo with new artwork.  The demo serves as a teaser until the band enters Balance Studios with Dave Fortman (Soilent Green, Superjoint Ritual, EYEHATEGOD, Crowbar) in May to lay down their first full-length album, Obscure Mold of a World, for Incision Records. Sure to lambast listeners with its intense technicality and broad musical 
range, the new album derives elements of everything from death and black metal to down-home sludge, showcasing Demise's dedication to musical progression and destroying all limits.  Odd time signatures enhanced by down-tuned aggression and a penchant for melody evoke startling images that only elaborate the multi-faciteded vocal approach, which can be as equally melodic and mournful as it is brutal and chaotic.  As a listener, should you thrilled to hear such ability or frightened that the best is yet to come???
Demise on Metal-archives <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.