Demons of Guillotine is a russian black metal band from Moscow -founded in 1997.
The group was founded by guitarist and Proteus bassist Pan. Some time later they were joined by drummer Kroc, and then the vocalist Zodiac.
The group is known for its extraordinary behavior on stage, brilliant show. In the entire history of the group has undergone many changes and by 2010 the original structure remained two musicians. The first studio album Demons of Guillotine Sweet Rosemary was released in September 2001 on the label Irond Records. In 2004 saw the release of second album Beastiary, released on the Art Music Group. In autumn 2010, is planned out their third album.

Beginning (1997-2001)
Demons of Guillotine - one of the oldest Moscow bands playing black metal. The origins of the group took in 1997 when guitarist Proteus and bassist left the band Pan MOR and decided to form his team. Later they were joined by drummer who left THRON Kroc and the Zodiac (while skald), who left the project Orthank. The group produces short demo recording of "Son of Dawn" and begins work on a full-format plate.
The following year the band played the opening act before the Russian concerts Cradle Of Filth, Impaled Nazarene and Children Of Bodom.
The first studio album called «Sweet Rosemary» was released in 2001 on the label Irond Records. The album was a creative experiment, was released called The Demons and contain elements of glam rock. The song "eternal slavery" from the album was shot clip.

Ups and Downs (2004-2008)
In 2004, the label Art Music Group has released its second studiynik, «Beastiary».
After the release of their second album the band has undergone many changes.
First, for personal reasons, left the band drummer Kroc. He managed to find a replacement in the person of Anatoly Alcothron. Then gradually lost interest in the Proteus group, and more and more like to focus on his new project, pop-rock group New Model. As a result, he decided to leave the team and find a replacement. What happened in 2005. In place of Proteus comes the new guitarist Lord Ash (ex-Despair, Tilaris)
The Group continues an active concert and begins to prepare the new material. However, it was never recorded. The complexity of the music and everyday life lead to the collapse of a decent team, interest in the work gradually decreases.
In 2007, Lord Ash left the band. Then starts the long-term reshuffle in the composition and enhanced creative crisis team.

Revival (2008-2010)
2008 saw the Demons of Guillotine for a new change of composition. In connection with the birth of the child and other family and household difficulties leaving bassist Pulse. Just left the band and Alcothron.
However, Guillotine Demons do not die - the drummer again Kroc, a job and guitarist and bassist occupy two new musicians - Coon (guitar) and Inkubus (bass). In this part of the band started to rehearse intensively and prepare new material.
The result of intensive work the group was black metal concert, held October 11, 2008 in the Moscow club of CW, which the group introduced several songs from the new concert program.
2010 began with a group of changes. Coon came to the place of guitarist Lord Ash (ex-Moray Eel, Tilaris), formerly of the group from 2005 to 2007.
In a new line-up (Zodiak, Lord Ash, Incubus, Krock) in June 2010 the band recorded a new single, "Demons of Guillotine," which was a big step toward a new album.
September 2010 marked a change of composition. Kroc left the band. Place was filled with Igor Shambler (Exortum, Abracsas, ex-Entente, Kenaz).
In the autumn the group celebrated his thirteenth birthday, and finished recording their third studio album, tentatively due in May 2011.

Discography

Son of the morning (demo) (1997) (as Demons Of Guillotine)
Sweet Rosemary (2001) (as The Demons)
Beastiary (2004) (as Demons Of Guillotine)
Guillotine Demons (single) (2010) (as Demons Of Guillotine)

This text was copied from lastfm.ru and Google translated. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demons+of+Guillotine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.