Former guitarist for Immortal, now its lyricist/manager. Also involved in other projects such as I (lyricist for Between Two Worlds) and Perfect Visions (vocalist).

Harald Nævdal, born 6 July 1970, known as Demonaz Doom Occulta, or most widely known simply as Demonaz, is most recognized as the once-guitarist and chief lyricist for the Norwegian black metal band Immortal.
 
In Immortal, he is known for his lyrics which, unconventionally for black metal, focus on icy landscapes and a fictional land called Blashyrkh. The story of Blashyrkh is gradually told throughout Immortal's albums. When writing lyrics he often takes long walks in the Norwegian countryside near his hometown of Bergen for inspiration. He was known for his simplistic but extremely fast guitar parts which were always based around power chords. With Abbath, he formed the core of Immortal until 1997, with members fluctuating otherwise and little stability until Horgh joined the band in 1997.
 
Demonaz played guitar on the albums Diabolical Fullmoon Mysticism, Pure Holocaust and Battles in the North, with his last musical contribution to Immortal being the 1997 album Blizzard Beasts. That same year, he was diagnosed with acute tendinopathy, and could no longer play guitar at the speed required for Immortal. Instead, he continues to write lyrics for Immortal and often takes the role of manager. He often accompanies the band on tour and is still seen by Abbath, Horgh and Apollyon as a member of the band even though it is unlikely he will ever be able to play guitar as part of the band.
 
Demonaz has appeared in all of Immortals music videos, including the music video for All Shall Fall, which was released in September 2010.
 
Demonaz has started a band called DEMONAZ where he is the vocalist. The band also includes most of the members of the band I. He wrote the lyrics for the I album Between Two Worlds. He will release his debut solo album. “March Of The Norse” , in April this year.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demonaz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.