After a year and half away from the music industry, it was time to unleash one more metal assault, so in December of 2007, J.C.B.(vocals) and T.C.(lead guitarist) founding members of the Cleveland band BAPTIZED IN BLOOD, started to put the core of their new project together. 
With a couple of weeks of talking and planning gone by, there was only one guitarist that would be willing and able to kick Cleveland in the ass with them, and the only one they would consider sharing the stage with that was DARK SECLUSION. they gave him a call and the first thing he asked "when and where", so with DARK SECLUSION on board the next mission was to find a drummer. 

they needed a drummer that could handle music with intense double kick, odd time signatures and many changes throughout. So the search began and it wasn't until Feburary, with all options exhausted, J.C.B. called Bongo from Clevelands own THIRD UNION, and it so happened their original drummer was back in the line up. So he made a call and with in a week CHAOS was our new drummer. 

With one void in the line up to fill, Deomns Within needed a solid and versatile bassist, J.C.B. made a call to a multi-instrumentalist he knew, and asked ADDIKT if he would consider playing bass in their new project. ADDIKT replied as long as we were creating music that was evil and destroying Christianity, he was in... So by mid Feburary 2008, the band was complete and ready to rise from the bowels of HELL and kick the music scene right in the face. So after a very successful start they ran into our first roadblock, the bassist ADDIKT told us he was moving to CA., so July of 2008, the start for a new bassist began not knowing there was one right in front of them. The head of the DEMON CREW and lighting tech, DEMIZE, wanted the gig, so he jumped right in and went out and bought a Dean 5 string bass, and Hartke 4x10 cabinet, and a Behringer amp, and he was ready to go by Friday August 22nd his debut show at The Cleveland Agora and solidified our lineup once again...... 

After our August 22nd show, the band decided to take some time off, to write some new material. During this time our original drummer CHAOS and DEMONS WITIHN have parted ways. So we started the search for our new drummer, they ran across a drummer who had worked with Clevelands own PKS and he had seen DEMONS WITHIN at our debut show back in May at The Agora and said " fuck yeah " I would like to drum for the DEMONS, with that being said, RETRIBUTION, has been working very hard on our exsiting songs and we have wrote a new song along the way, with a couple more that are in the first stages. They will be back in early 2009 with the new drummer, new material, a new photo shoot and Demons have one more twisted and evil plan up their tattooed sleeves, so be ready Cleveland this will kick your ass. ''HORNS HIGH and we will be back stronger and heavier than before.'' 

Their 2009 started off with a bang they booked three shows: Saturday January 31st at Skully Jaxx. Saturday February 28th at The Roc Bar, and Saturday March 28th at The Cove. My twisted evil change to the line up was the addition of SARRIS a female death metal vocalist, SARRIS made her debut at the Demons January 31st show and it was awesome, so now that the lineup is complete, the Chaos and Carnage will continue in 2009, with more local and out of state shows, new merch and a full length CD from the DEMONS...... 


Influences: 
Slayer
Dark Funeral 
Marilyn Manson
Black Sabbath
BLS
Lamb Of God
Megadeth
Devildriver
Strapping Young Lad
King Diamond
Meshuggah
Tool
Rush
(Old) Metallica
Iron Maiden
Cradle of Filth
Between the Buried and Me
Red Hot Chili Peppers
Otep
Testament
Arch Enemy
Rob Zombie
Fear Factory
Kiss
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demons+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.