Young De aka Demrick is a Recording Artist / Songwriter currently residing in Los Angeles, California. He has a unique style of music, both raw and soulful. “The songs I write are about my life, friends, family and people I’ve met along the way, most of my inspiration comes from my everyday experiences.” He is best known for his collaborations with high profile artists such as Xzibit, Kurupt, Snoop Dogg, Too $hort, B-Real and Cypress Hill. He is also recognized as a protege of B-Real & Xzibit.

The beginning of his career started in 2005 when he met Kurupt in Philadelphia. At the time he was in a group and Kurupt urged them to move to California. They took him up on the suggestion and in 2007 they released an album with Kurupt titled “Philly 2 Cali”. 

In 2008 Young De released his solo debut mixtape titled “Audio Hustlaz Vol. 1”, it was presented by DJ Skee. B-Real contributed to the mixtape as a producer and featured on several tracks. Later that year Young De released the “Homeland Security” mixtape which was a collaboration project with Shady/Interscopes’ artist Ca$his. Homeland Security was hosted by DJ Whoo Kid and featured tracks with Royce Da 5’9, Crooked I and Freeway among others. 

Young De was also featured on B-Real’s 2009 solo album “Smoke N Mirrors”, appearing on 5 of the 15 songs including the single Don’t Ya Dare Laugh. With that album B-Real and Young De spent a lot of time touring overseas. In the middle of 09’, Young De’s appearance on DJ Muggs “Souls Assassins Intermissions” albumlanded 2,000,000+ hits on YouTube for it’s 1st single Figure It Out. Due to the success of that song he has spent the past 2 years touring with Xzibit.

In 2010 Cypress Hill released their 8th studio album titled “Rise Up” on EMI’s Priority Records. Young De was featured on the street single It Ain’t Nothin . The video for this single received rotation on all television outlets and landed him on the Carson Daily Show. He also went on tour with Cypress, performing at festivals like Rock am Ring and Rockin Rio. At the end of the year Young De teamed up with DJ Fingaz, for yet another mixtape titled “De is for Demrick”.

In 2011 Xzibit and Young created a music catalog for the company Extreme Music/Sony ATV titled “Urban Ammo”. From that catalog they chose two digital singles; Man On The Moon & What It Is. These videos were shot by director Matt Alonzo and led to rotation on MTV. 
In mid 2011, Young De released an EP titled “Neva Look Back” produced solely by Scoop DeVille. The EP had three singles What’s Good, Ready 2 Go & What’s Good Remix. 

Young De just released his early 2012 mixtape “#Heads Up”. The 17 song project includes the singles Money & Weed & Burn Out (Produced By Jim Jonsin). After being noticed by South Florida’s Grammy winning producer Jim Jonsin in a studio session with Cypress Hill. The two have started working on music for his debut LP which has yet to be titled. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Demrick">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.