1. An American indie band.

2. A Politcal rapper from New Hampshire. (http://www.reverbnation.com/denalih1)

1.Denali was an American indie  band that formed in April 2000 in Richmond, Virginia. The group disbanded in 2004, but reunited in 2008-09 for several performances. 

Denali began in Richmond, Virginia in 2000 when Maura Davis approached her older brother Keeley Davis (then singer/guitarist withEngine Down with the idea of fleshing out some songs she had been working on. Keeley enlisted the help of Engine Down bandmate and former Sleepytime Trio drummer Jonathan Fuller and was followed slightly thereafter by Cam DiNunzio, longstanding member of Richmond's music community. Together these three gentlemen would help realize Maura's musical ideas into what eventually became Denali.

The name Denali (meaning "the great one") is taken from the Athabascan name for Alaska's Mount McKinley, the highest mountain in North America. The meaning is fairly obvious: Cold, remotely desolate, permanent...   something the band felt pertained rather well to the sound they were stumbling upon. After recording and selling a five-song demo at live shows, Denali caught the ear of record label Jade Tree.

Denali released their debut album denali in the spring of 2002. In August 2003, they released their second album the Instinct. Shortly after the release, Jonathan Fuller and Keeley Davis left the band to focus their attention on Engine Down. Davis was replaced by bassist Stephen Howard and Ryan Rapsys replaced Fuller. Despite (or because of) these changes, Denali broke up in April 2004.

Denali performed a reunion show on July 5, 2008 at The National Theater in Richmond. This was followed by two further shows in New York City in September. In June 2009, two additional shows were performed in Philadelphia and Washington, D.C..
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Denali">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.