Every band has a story, this is Dendura’s: 
Called “Moody, powerful, unique and seductive” by fans and reviewers, Dendura’s sound has elements of Egyptian/Middle Eastern (Aziza is Egyptian and Lebanese) along with a haunting feel. Their music is mostly written in minor scales and draws from the progressive and technical side of metal. Originally formed in February of 2004, Dendura played in Detroit, Kalamazoo, and Grand Rapids before loosing their original drummer and going on a 1 ½ year hiatus. During their down time from playing live, the band released a 3 song demo titled “I Have A Gun” in July of 2005 and was approached by a few filmmakers to use the songs in their independent films. On April 22nd, 2006, the band was reborn and released their debut album “New Life” for a “Movie and Music Show” for the film “Cycle of Fear” (2 songs of Dendura’s are featured in the film). Since then, they've had their music in 6 other independent films including “Broken”, and “Perception”. This started a media buzz getting them a featured article in “Michigan Vue” Magazine. More attention was drawn to them on the release of “New Life” in 2007 with the use of Egyptian mythology in some of their songs and lyrics causing a buzz in Egypt, Brazil, The Netherlands, Germany, Italy as well as in the U.S. 

The bands live show is powerful, energetic and hypnotic. Dendura has since added a drummer and guitarist duo that were looking for a progressive metal band. The band has called this meeting ironic or even kismet. The new members influences, goals, musical backgrounds and personalities continue to exceed expectations. With influences from progressive metal leaders such as “Dream Theater”, "Orphaned Land”, “Queensryche”, “Nevermore”, and “Evergrey”, "Aghora" Dendura is on a mission to keep you guessing and capture your ears. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dendura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.