There are five bands and a singer with the name Deneb:

1) The Catalan one: 
With four recordings since the nineties, the band started with a clear skill to create effective songs as it can be seen in "I", published in 1993, and "No Pueden Ser Pocas Luces" done in1996.  

"Nub", their third work is introspective and dens. It was a very important recording of that year at the indie scene in Spain and abroad. 

In 2001 they made "Hitech-Lowlife", their last studio recording, an excelent ejercicise of reflection, looking at the electronic whith complicity and even admiration beyond the time context, tendences or opinions. The best of this band is it magnificent, surrounding, dark and exciting sound bundle. 


2) The Czech one:
The music of this world music band has been inspired predominantly by the folk music of Balkan countries. In their repertoire they have also Czech and Hungarian songs and a few escapes to seemingly remote genres.

The band draws inspiration not only from old collections of folk songs, but also from meetings with musical friends from various regions. That's why you can find some lively surprises among the Macedonian and Bulgarian ballads.

The band has been performing since 2005. Its members have had a musical past in other bands as well, usually oriented to world music. In 2006 Deneb was one of the four bands in the finals of Colours Talents national competition, held by Indies publishing house together with the festival Colours of Ostrava. 

http://www.denebmusic.cz/en_odkazy.html
http://www.myspace.com/denebcz


3) The Polish one:
The Deneb from Poland is a metal band that proposes a death/black metal music with thrash elements and a mix of deep growls with a screamed voice (which sometimes may make think of some kind of black metal voice)

In 2005 they recorded their first album called "A Path Without Destination"

http://www.myspace.com/deneb1


4) The Mexican one:
In 2000 Martha Herrera starts the work of a rock group called The Electric Blue until the year 2002 when they change their name to Deneb. They are from Torreón Coahuila and after some musicians change, they are now:

Martha Herrera: Composer, Vocalist and Bass.
Cesar Secundino Mendez: Guitar
Jose Luis Mendez: Drums

5) The Italian one:

They are an item of the italian dark wave.
Album: "Assenza"

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fulGbglpmJk&feature=related


6) The singer:
Lenny Deneb, a St. Lucian born singer/songwriter, has been described by the British music press as exciting, impressive and intelligent in his writing.

Lenny's brand of reggae music is termed reggae-rock, bringing together the styles of Bob Marley, Steel Pulse, Peter Tosh and the rock influences of U2, Bruce Springsteen, The Police, Radiohead, Ocean Colour Scene, Maroon 5, Lenny Kravitz and R.E.M.

Having spent the period between 1998 to the present residing, traveling and working between St. Lucia and London, releasing his debut album 'From The Sanctuary', as well as nurturing a number of young St. Lucian talents namely PCL Krew and One 2 One. He was nominated for Producer of the Year at the first annual St. Lucia Music Awards. In November 2008 W.O.A International signed him to a management and marketing deal for India and the Middle East.

http://www.lennydeneb.com/



(the original DENEB:
Deneb (α Cyg / α Cygni / Alpha Cygni) is the brightest star in the constellation Cygnus and one of the vertices of the Summer Triangle. It is the 19th brightest star in the night sky, with an apparent magnitude of 1.25. A white supergiant, Deneb is also one of the most luminous nearby stars)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deneb">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.