Smooth like smoke from the tip of a Cuban cigar, and as sensuous as morning love, electro-soul duo Denitia an Sene not only exude sexy through their music, they invent it. The Brooklyn, New York-based musicians came together a year ago with a shared vision to bring truth and ingenuity to stylistic music, and they’ve held their ambitions high ever since. Simple. Rare. Sumptuous. Bold. They’ve been influenced by a range of sonic proclivities. Thus, their work is distinguished not by genre, but attention to free verse, and the magic that transpires between darkness and light. It’s film noir for audiophiles – chic, hip and alluring – and together, they have broken down personal limits to forge a bond surpassing all expectations.

In true Brooklyn custom, the two artists met while attending a party one night at a spot they refer to as the “The Clubhouse,” an old Victorian home serving as a residence, community space, and recording studio for a collective of local artists. Sene, a rapper, was looking for someone to sing hooks on his new album, and Denitia, a singer-songwriter, welcomed the challenge. He gave her the scratch vocals; she nailed it and then some; and suddenly, they were part of the New York fairytale so many artists call a dream. It’s Brooklyn at its finest – it’s serendipity. It’s Denitia and Sene.

After their initial collaboration went better than expected, Denitia and Sene decided to take it one step further and form a twosome, allowing Sene, a Brooklyn native, to tap into his musical skills beyond hip hop, and denitia to explore a more sultry, theatrical side of her character. Both were inspired by a variety of artists and backgrounds, listing Sade, The Fugees, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, The Beatles, and Janet Jackson as a few of their shared favorites. Such diversity is reflected in the dynamism of their own sound, from smooth bass lines and reverberating vocals to synth-laden blues and abbreviated narratives. It’s kind of like nothing else out there, and that is the intention.

Denitia and Sene’s first EP, Blah Blah Blah was released in August 2012, and presented by OkayPlayer.com, a three-track assortment blending definitive soul with electronic bebop. Their track "Casanova", won the attention of many music tastemasters, with Fader magazine calling it “an effortless, snuggly gem primed for late Saturday mornings tangled in rumpled covers.” Because their partnership has been effortless and magical from the get, they intend to continue down the same track, aiming to create authentic and intuitive music that is accessible to a wide variety of people. No fronts and no concessions – it follows only the rules they set for themselves, compromising nothing that might contradict their signature sweet panache.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Denitia+and+Sene">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.