Three different bands.

1. A brutal death metal/goregrind band from Bogotá, Colombia. 

2. A Swedish Metal band: http://www.deniedworld.com/

3. American Hardcore band:

Formed at a time when changes began to surface in how the broad music community embraced Hardcore and vice versa, DENIED put out a straight-up flavor truly representing their roots as a Queens/NYC Hardcore band.
Together since 1995, they have had changes in both line-up and sound. Today DENIED consists of Jared (vocals), Melissa (Guitar), Anthony (Bass) and Nick (Drums). Their brutal guitars, aggressive vocals and tight power drums is a mix of the New School Metal Hardcore style with the traditional NYHC. Their style is straight-up, with lyrics that reflect reality and personal experience.

Currently they have released a debut 7 song MCD on Kevone
BULLDOZEs own label, TIME SERVED Records and 5 songs included on the THORNZ Records compilation called "Step to the Plate" together with STRENGTH FOR A REASON (USA), FULL COURT PRESS (B) and DOWN MY THROAT (Fin).

…DENIED have played all over the East Coast focusing mainly in the NY/NJ/CT/PA area in clubs ranging from small local bars to New York City's "Coney Island High" and "CBGB's", Jersey's own "Pipeline" and CT's "Hannover House". They have also played the UK and Wales and have a full European tour scheduled in 2004…

…What they strive for is sincerity in both sound and message. Their
influences range from total underground Hardcore along the lines of BULLDOZE to major label bands just like SLAYER. They are part of a rapidly growing underground scene in New York City that has produced such bands as AGNOSTIC FRONT, MADBALL and BIOHAZARD…

…The band's motivation stems from a desire to create music that not only
represents them but allows others to relate a piece of themselves to the music. Their goal is to reach out to as wide an audience as they can… But never deterring from their main focus... The music they work so hard to keep true <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Denied">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.