There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Denial is a band inspired in the 90’s death metal, formed lately at 2006 with the urge to create dark and real metal of death by not amateur musicians but from ex and actual formerly band members from some finest Mexican acts, like Oscar Clorio, ex- drummer from the legendary band Cenotaph (also drummer in Shub Niggurath at the last recording), Marko Guevara bass player and vocals from Pulverized (playing guitar in Denial) and Ivan “Bloodhunter” ex-vocalist for UMS and Dew of Nothing.
Finally at 2007 founding a new guitar player on Roberto Granados, just before know him was making the recording for their first 7” called Immense Carnage Vortex with the collaboration of Luis Ramos on the bass, which was launched through Swedish death metal cult label Blood Harvest Recs.

Finding a definitive bass player in Ricardo Gil, who was in the very beginnings of the band and finally comes back to devastate together with live gigs and new recordings of that almost forgotten real primal death metal essence...
And now signed for the debut album with the young but mighty Asphyxiate Recordings for the upcomming album "Catacombs of the Grotesque" (release date to be announced soon).

MEMBERS:
Oscar Clorio - Drums (Shub Niggurath, Damned Cross, Cenotaph)
Roberto Granados - Guitar (Pulverized)
Ivan Bloodhunter - Vocals (Foeticide, Cenotaph, Dew of Nothing)
Marko Guevara - Guitar (Prohibitory, Pulverized)
Ricardo Gil - Bass (Trono de Huesos, As Light Fades, The Suffering)

LINKS:
http://www.myspace.com/denialmex
http://www.asphyxiaterecordings.com


2) Denial is a Russian drum and bass band.


3) Denial is a death/black metal band, Euskadi, Spain.
Formed by:
Alex (guitar), Ibai (guitar), Roma (vocals), Luis (keyboard), Manex (bass) & Rober (drum)


4) Denial is an Australian twin-bass-and-drum-machine hardcore.

5) Denial is a Croatian thrash / hardcore band from Rijeka.

6) Denial is an early 80s Australian synthpop / dreampop band that also recorded as Aural Indifference.

7) Denial was a thrash metal band from Kannapolis, North Carolina that formed in 1987. They released an EP in 1990 called "No Comment" and one LP entitled "Antichrist President" in 1991. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Denial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.