Denis Vlachiotis began his musical studies at age 10 after receiving his first acoustic guitar. Soon after he progressed to his first electric and took some lessons where he was shown theory, technique and accuracy. It wasn't long before he was playing along with his favourite Kiss, Guns 'n Roses, Metallica and Megadeth tunes.

    He soon expanded his musical influences to include blues and jazz. Listening to great guitarists like Stevie Ray Vaughn inspired Vlachiotis to broaden his repertoire even further. He would later expand these influences to include flamenco and classical styles, especially after seeing how different elements of both could be incorporated into metal.

    After growing as a musician and song writer, he started to play music with school friends where he would gain much performance experience. These experiences would prove invaluable when he began playing live and session gigs with various rock and Latin rock bands, laying down his first recording aged only 16.

    As his writing skills improved with his performance abilities, Vlachiotis invested in his own 8 track recording device. He began tracking projects and was soon recording material for what became his first major original band - DRED.

    After some fairly major upgrades to his home studio, Vlachiotis recorded DRED's first EP "A Path To Extinction" in 2006. During a rigorous schedule of practice and touring to support this release he began to write material for a new project.

    This project was to become his first solo instrumental release "Imperishable Ferocity". The idea of which was to fuse together the energy of DRED together with his love for Metal, Flamenco and Classical styles. He then combined this with and his long standing interest in classical mythology to produce something truly unique.

    At age only 21, it is Vlachiotis' goal to take his guitar playing to new heights. With his life dedicated to producing music, expect much more to come in the near future.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Denis+Vlachiotis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.