There are (at least) 5 bands with the name Departed:

1) Electronic Pop band from Malmö, (Sweden)
2) Metalcore band from Warsaw (Poland)
3) Death metal group from Alhambra, California (USA)
4) Brutal Death Metal band from East Java (Indonesia)
5) Death Metal/ Deathcore band from Bosna i Hercegovina
6) Rock band from Devon (England)

1 - Valdi Solemo (last 1,5 yrs  also touring with S.P.O.C.K) & Magnus Johnsson (also lead singer in Quelles Paroles) decided to form the band Departed during the summer of 2011. Their first release was the song "Until The Moment Comes" on the Swedish Label Electric Fantastic Sounds album - Electric Fantastic Sound No. 7 2011 (released 19/9-2011). New own releases to come during autumn and winter of 2011. 
Their music can be described as electronic pop based on melodies, harmonies & inspiration from the electronic music that arrised in the 80's. This combined with serious lyrics & pumping beats. 

Greatest influences ought to be their favorite artists that popped up in the 80's, like Depeche Mode, Yazoo & Howard Jones. But also modern young bands like Hurts, Chromeo & Mirrors are big favorites of the guys in Departed.

You can listen to them & learn more about them on:
www.facebook.com/departedpop www.soundcloud.com/departedpop & www.listn.to/departedpop

2 - Departed was initially founded back in 2005 by Maciek (guitar), Blaszak (bass), and Vipold (drums). Through the next year, due to various circumstances crew has changed - since fall of 2005 the line-up remains still: Vipold (drums), Pavel (guitar), Qba (guitar) and Morwin (bass). Throughout whole next year Departed tirelessly tested hordes of vocalist-wannabes, until Rob (former band: Vaintroth) joined in during november of 2006. From then our music changed a lot - songs got slightly faster and more technical, vocal parts have given more agression to the music. After uncountable rehearsals, we recorded our first demo* in may 2007. Now we prepare for our first concerts - in Pretekst and Progresja clubs, and then - during the summer - in rest of (hopefully not only) local clubs. 

Main thing that links us is metalcore indeed, but in fact every of us likes another kind of music - from core scene, through old school thrash/death/black to progressive music. We consider our music as a part of huge nowadays metalcore community, and with such variety of influences, Departed is trying to make something new in metalcore scheme. We hope you'll enjoy the time while listening to us, and we hope to see anyone of you on our concerts! 

*quite poor record quality, we need to mix it again, but you can listen to some track until we finish the next mix. 

Official website: www.departed.prv.pl
MySpace: www.myspace.com/departedband

3 - They formed in 2003, and released a demo in 2004. MySpace: www.myspace.com/departed

4 - Indonesian Brutal Death Metal band formed in 2009. They released their first full-length "Oblation of Heaven Suffering" in 2012. 
http://www.facebook.com/departedbrutal

6 - Back in September 2013 Mark Pascall (Vocalist for  Empire of Fools) auditioned for a new project to be started by the manager of The Treatment/Roadstar/Airrace. 

Marks audition process included rehearsing along with the band The Treatment (who toured the globe with Motley Crue, Kiss, Status Quo, Slash, Steel Panther) and was the first proper introduction to their lead guitarist, Ben Brookland.

The new project failed to launch, around the time Ben announced his departure from The Treatment. He left due to personal reasons and a family bereavement, subsequently, he returned home to Cornwall. 

Mark and Ben stayed in touch during this difficult time. Empire of Fools were slowly creeping up the ladder of success at the time but Mark could see massive potential in working with Ben, so started his campaign to convince Ben come out of early retirement. 

As Ben was warming to the idea of returning to the music industry, an opportunity came up. EofF needed a guitarist to fill in for a show opening for The Answer. Ben jumped at the chance and got back on stage in Exeter, March 12th 2014.

This show kick-started a flurry of inspiration and song-writing began with a sense of creative freedom and equal input. Over the course of the next 7 months, the songs grew stronger and plentiful. It was time to put a band together. 

After an initial bassist search, Mark decided to take on this role to get the band off the ground. In November 2014, Howie Spring auditioned on drums and after weeks of hard work, the bones of the band had been formed. 

2015 proved to be an extremely difficult year. Life seemed to present challenge after challenge with yet again family bereavements and life changing circumstances but Mark and Ben persevered and recorded a couple of tracks in their own studio. 

“Steal Your Crown” and “All I Want” were the first tracks recorded. On March 28th Mark and Ben headed to Red City Studios to record drums with Chris Rivers (Heavens Basement) proceeded by mixing the two tracks with Jonny Rocker (formally of HB). The tracks were then mastered by Ade Emsley (Iron Maiden, Voodoo Six, The Treatment).

2016 was the year targeted to launch the band and finally get out playing live. January 24th saw DEPARTED opening for American rock band Aiden in Bristol to a fantastic reception. Over the next couple of months the band played some low key shows whilst also opening for Graham Bonnet (Rainbow) and heading to play in London. 

Throughout February another 5 tracks were written/recorded by Mark and Ben which completed what would become their debut mini-album.
Straight after the show opening for Graham Bonnet, it was time to head back to Manchester where again Chris Rivers guested on drums, recorded by Jonny Rocker. The tracks were again mixed by Jonny and mastered by Ade Emsley. 

Following a successful show in the capital, Mark and Ben decided to improve the dynamic of the band with the addition of Connor Spring (Howie’s brother) on drums. Mark stepped away from bass duties and handed these to Howie (this is actually his main instrument) to concentrate solely on vocals. 

The energy found in this line up was incredibly exciting and mirrored the vibe and feel that had been achieved when recording the mini-album. At the end of March, the band had its first outing and trial at a small venue in Plymouth before hitting the main stage at Frankfest, Ivybridge, where the response was incredible. 

Following on from the fantastic reception from the media and hard work playing live, Mark received a call inviting the band to open for the legendary Status Quo at their stadium show in Llanelli, south Wales.

the mini-album was available for pre-sale 18th May and following an amazing reaction from the media, it was officially released on 18th June. 

The next couple of months saw DEPARTED heading back to London, playing in front of key industry representatives as well as opening for Phil Campbell (Motorhead), John Coghlans Quo (Status Quo). August 27th came around very quickly and DEPARTED headed to their biggest show yet opening for Status Quo. This show set the bar and what a reaction was received! A standing ovation from the grand stand for an opening band is quite an achievement!

Another busy month followed, playing live and promoting the mini-album as well as a main stage appearance at Looe Music Festival playing before Wilko Johnson. DEPARTED performed inLondon again, opening for Mitch Malloy (Van Halen). As well as opening for Chuck Mosely (Faith No More) and Romeo’s Daughter during Sep/Oct, DEPARTED headlined a festival in The Netherlands and made their debut in Europe.

November saw the band heading back to London and north Wales to play at the prestigious Hard Rock Hell festival along side such bands as Ugly Kid Joe, Ratt, Ginger Wildheart, The Treatment, Graham Bonnet. Following on from the festival, DEPARTED performed an acoustic set opening for Dave Mcpherson of InMe, travelled to Cardiff to perform a well received show opening for Big Country and joined the line up with Bad Touch/Massive.
Departed Facebook page

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Departed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.