BIOGRAPHY

Dephosphorus were formed in Athens, Greece in the summer of 2008 by guitarist/songwriter Thanos Mantas and vocalist/lyricist Panos Agoros, when both have decided to move on after their previous band Straighthate came to a dead end.

Their mission statement is to create intense, aggressive music  with a allegorical, cosmic concept. After a first year spent doing home demos, crafting their style, the band decided to opt for a more visceral and organic approach. That’s how fellow scenester and drummer/vocalist of local black/death comrades Injekting Khaos, Nikos Megariotis has been recruited.

The first 7 tracks written as a trio were recorded in the summer of 2010 as a debut demonstration of Dephoshorus’ potential and became the “Axiom” session. Rounded up with mindblowing artwork by Viral Graphics, “Axiom” has been shipped to record labels in order to secure its official release as a mini-album.

In the meanwhile, during the fall of the same year 2010, Dephosphorus have recorded 14 new tracks for their debut album “Night Sky TransformNight Sky Transform”, as well as for two split-EP’s. Ryan Lipynsky (Unearthly Trance, Thralldom (R.I.P.), The Howling Wind) has collaborated with the band for the song “Unconscious Excursion”, writing the lyrics, recording the vocals and a stellar guitar solo in his compound at Brooklyn, NY.

7 Degrees Records from Germany released “Axiom” in June 2011 as a glorious gatefold 12″MLP. 

The spring of 2012 saw the release of two split-7″EP’s: one with labelmates WAKE (Canada) once again through 7 Degrees Records and the 2nd one with GREAT FALLS (USA). The latter is part of the Hell Comes Home subscription series vol.1.

Bundling all things extreme and heavy into a unique, coherent music style known as astrogrind, and endorsing a cosmic, mind expanding concept with the associated aesthetics, Dephosphorus are a creative force on the edge of the contemporary music scene.

Maintaining since 2011 and the now classic “Axiom” mini-LP high standards and a consistent discographic presence, they have been graced with the enthusiastic support of a cult following comprised of eclectic music lovers from all over the globe.

“Ravenous Solemnity”, the 2nd full-length album succeeding to 2012’s critically and fan acclaimed “Night Sky Transform”, marks a milestone for the band. The addition behind the drum kit of John Votsis, one the most talented and dedicated musicians of the local Greek scene, has been instrumental in making of this dense, 43-minute-long odyssey Dephosphorus’ most intense and majestic effort to date.

Illustrated once again with stunning artwork by analog visionaries and friends Viral Graphics, packaged as a glorious gatefold double LP pressed on 180g heavy wax by the good care of the band’s allies and vinyl specialists 7 Degrees Records in cooperation with Handshake Inc., the latter providing for the first time North American distribution for the band, “Ravenous Solemnity” is destined to be a
classic gem in any extreme audiophile’s record collection. A digital version is
available for a reasonable fee from the band’s Bandcamp page, while a cassette
and possibly a CD edition will follow at some point.

With Dephosphorus’ personnel being split between Greece and Sweden, the band
is still not planning any live shows but it remains more dedicated than ever in
challenging themselves and the underground audience. A collaborative split-LP
effort with excellent Finnish comrades Haapoja approaches completion and will
be released later this year.

DEPHOSPHORUS Discography:

2011: “Axiom” mini-LP @ 7 Degrees Records
2012: split-7”EP with WAKE (CA) @ 7 Degrees Records
2012: split-7”EP with GREAT FALLS (US) @ Hell Comes Home
2012: “Night Sky Transform” LP @ 7 Degrees Records
2013: V/A “Monomaniac vol.2/3” @ Blastbeat Mailmurder - contributed
exclusive track “Unknown To Thee”
2014: V/A “The CVLT Nation Sessions: DISCHARGE’s seminal album Hear
Nothing See Nothing Say Nothing” - contributed “The Blood Runs Red”
2014: “Ravenous Solemnity” 2xLP @ 7 Degrees Records/Handshake Inc.

www.dephosphorus.com 

http://dephosphorus.bandcamp.com

www.myspace.com/7degreesrecords

http://7degreesrecords.bandcamp.com

www.handshakeinc.com

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dephosphorus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.