There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Depression is a German underground Death/Grind Band.
Website: http://depression-grind.de

2) Depression is a doom/death band from Russia that was formed in 1993. Released the demo "Венок печали" in 1995 and "Распятье Богов" in 1996. Apparently, they recorded two new tracks (presumably live) from 2007-2008, and played a concert in Moscow during this time. Monstrously huge, expansive Doom/Death Metal, with a heavy emphasis on the Doom. The tracks are quite lengthy, often extending past the ten minute mark, with an average of about 9 minutes each, allowing for multitudes of varying degrees of experimentation and gripping melodies. There's a little bit for everybody; often melodic, but at the same time crushingly heavy and suffocating, aided by the overpowering vocals. Evoking nostalgic and eye-opening atmosphere, I sit here stunned, mouth open, entirely at the mercy of this hypnotic and haunting obscurity. Long, winding instrumental passages saturate throughout, thick with melody and entrancement.

3) Depression is an hardcore band from Atlanta , featuring ex-members of Instilled, Love Is Red, and Harsh Fact. Released their debut EP in 2006 which features a remake of an old Instilled song entitled Ghost Of Cabbage Town.

4) Depression is an Hardcore punk band, Melbourne, Australia, 1981-1988. Fast & ferociously raw, influenced by Discharge, Disorder, Crass. Caught Jello Biafra's attention in 1983 who got them on Maximum Rock and Roll's Welcome to 1984 compilation. The now-classic 26-track debut LP Depression (1985) followed, plus much-lauded EP Australia Australia (1985). Singer Spike then left and Depression gravitated to thrash/metal, releasing Ultra Hard Core Mega Heavy Punk Metal Thrash (1987) and Thrash Till Death (1988).
Website: http://www.myspace.com/depressionhardcorepunk

5) Depression is a Greek Power/Doom Metal band. They have released two full length cds. Their first cd was named Daymare and was released on 1997. Their latest cd, Legions of the Sick was released in 2006 by Sleaszy Rider Records. They have performed live in many gigs, including performing as a support band for power metallers Rage, Gravedigger and Death Metal bands like Rotting Christ, Nightfall in front of thousands of metalheads. Website: http://depressionclan.atspace.com

6) Depression was a KBD punk band from France

7) Youtube musician https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5CdJVad3FxiC68h3zoZccg <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Depression">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.