Derdian is a power metal band from Milan, Italy.

'Henry Pistolese' and Marco Covelli founded the band in 1998 and initially intended it to be a thrash metal style. The two founders were joined in this project by Luigi Trapani (vocals/guitar) and Samuele Carrari (bass). They began by covering bands like Metallica and Megadeth. However, at some point they began writing original songs with more of a power metal sound, a change which influenced Luigi and Samuele to leave the band. The new band was completed by the addition of Max Raineri (bass), Luca Aversa (lead guitar), Federico Bonetti (keyboards) and Andrea Figus(vocals).

Derdian released their first self-produced demo CD called Revenge in 2001. Distributed just in Italy, it was very well reviewed by main local power metal-focused magazines and websites like Power Zone Magazine and Orion Magazine. After the recording of the demo, new line-up changes occurred because lack of time and some disagreements caused Federico and Max to leave the band. They were replaced by Marco Garau (keyboards) and Alessandro Colombo (bass), both of them ex-members of the already defunct Eternal Glory. The band went on writing new songs and doing live shows. In January 2002, Luca Aversa(lead guitar) left the band for time reasons, being replaced by Massimo Sangiorgi who disagreed with the other members of the band and was consequently replaced.

In February of the same year Derdian played a live show at the Indian’s Saloon in Bresso (Mi) and in March at the Transilvania in Milan. In April the band took part in a contest at the Madigans in Osnago (Lc), but without the vocalist Andrea Figus who decided to leave the band because of some disagreements. It was Enrico who replaced him on vocals the evening of the contest. After this long and difficult period, the band went on writing new songs and finally the line-up reached a period of stability with the addition of Danny Glick (already member of SILENCE) on vocals and of Massimiliano Pitaro(lead guitar). Starting with December 2002, Derdian passed through a tough period and Danny Glick (vocals), Marco Covelli (drums), Massimiliano Pitaro (lead guitar) and Alessandro Colombo (bass) decided to leave the band. Nevertheless, they were willing to give the band a hand in looking for new members and for some time Derdian was joined by Marco Sivo, the singer from the Valas. Massimo Sangiorgi, the lead guitar came back to the band. Around the same time, Joe joined on vocals. But the rhythm parts remained unmanned, bass and drums. He was replaced by “Cristo” who became a member of the band. The new drummer, Salvatore, completed the present band.

A new demo in 2003 was released called Incitement. After recording “Incitement” Derdian decided to interrupt the collaboration with “Cristo” for musical divergences. November 2003 Fulvio officially took over Bass. In the meantime, the band managed to play a lot of concerts in Italy. Derdian then was signed under Steelheart Records and recorded in March 2004. Their debut CD New Era Part 1 was released in February–March 2005. The debut album sold many copies around the world, especially in Japan, Korea, Canada, and the USA. Derdian decided with regret to separate from the guitarist Flash for personal reasons.

After a promotion by Myspace, Derdian was contacted by the American label Magna Carta Records, who offered a deal to the band. Derdian signed the deal and their new album New Era pt 2 War of the Gods was released in 2007. The album had the power metal theme about a mythological world filled with heroes and villains.

Their new album "New Era Pt. 3 - The Apocalypse" was released on March 2, 2010 by Magna Carta Records.

On 13.03.2013, they released 'Limbo'. It's the first album with new lead singer Ivan Giannini.
The production of 'Limbo' is in the hands of the band themselves. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Derdian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.