There are 6 artists by the name of Derelict:

1. A death metal band hailing from Montreal, Derelict strives to unite as many aspects of metal as possible into one commanding package. Although comparisons to various death and thrash metal bands have arisen (Death, Strapping Young Lad, Martyr), it is obvious upon the first listen that Derelict incorporates the brutal and progressive elements of the Quebec scene with listenable structures and melody, resulting in an unforgiving yet accessible package.

With the help of their cross-country tour in May 2008, various mini-tours through Quebec and Ontario, and support for major acts such as Ion Dissonance (Century Media), Threat Signal (Nuclear Blast), and The Agonist (Century Media), the band has covered most of Canada, all of which was done through independent self-booking and promotion.

With 2006’s Ideological Prey and 2008’s Carry the Flame, Derelict have been tirelessly seeking promotional and distribution avenues to get themselves heard. Be it through their compelling live shows, or through exposure on shows such as CHOM 97.7 FM's "The Metal File", the word is getting around that Derelict is a force to be reckoned with.

Fast forward to Fall 2008: Derelict is on the verge of releasing their new full-length, Unspoken Words. Having been mixed by Chris Donaldson (Cryptopsy, The Agonist), the disc is an aural weapon. The violent attacks and schizophrenic changes the band has always counted in their arsenal are present, as are new elements from far-ranging styles of music, proving that Derelict are constantly willing to step outside of their comfort zone.


2. DeRelict aka Michal Derengowski (born in 1984) is a trance/progressive producer that hails from Bydgoszcz in Poland. Inspired by artists such as 4Strings, Armin Van Buuren & Ferry Corsten, he began producing in 2001. 

His music has been supported by DJ’s like Paul van Dyk, Markus Schulz, Sean Tyas, Solar Stone, Agneli & Nelson, Pedro Del Mar Mike Shiver, Jon O’Bir, Suzy Solar and more…

3. Derelict is a solo project fronted by multi-instrumentalist Jesse Ditson. His songs are influenced by artists like Elliott Smith, Erlen Oye, Thom Yorke, Belle and Sebastian, Wilco, and Jeff Mangum, creating a sound ranging from pop to industrial. Instruments used in recording include Cello, Mandolin, Recorder, Tambourine, Omni Chord, and a plethora of other instruments, in addition to the standard Kit, Guitar, Keys, and Bass.

Jesse Ditson was born in Provo, Utah and started playing cello at the age of 4. By the age of 12, he was writing and recording songs with his younger brother (Bim Ditson), both of which now play in Fire Truck.

4. Dubstep artist Sam Lynch, based in Bath & Bristol.

5. Hip-hop artist Simar Samuel, based in Seattle, Washington, and signed to upstart Elevada Records.

6. Alternative rock band from the Czech Republic (exactly from Prague and Vsetin) formed in 2007. The group is consisted from Jan Steiniger, called "Štoky" (lead vocals, guitar), Ondřej Štrba (lead guitar), Petr Bechyňák (bass guitar) and Adam Obr (drums). Their first performance was in the gym of Gymnazium Opatov in Prague.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DeRelict">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.