"Derisions driving groove-centred thrash, upped the aggression with panache" Metal Hammer 8/10 

DERISION are Tony Smith (Vocals), Eddie White (Guitars), John Mellor (Drums), Kirsten Slater (Guitars) and Seddy (Bass). 


They are an intense and energetic metal band from the north west of England."Ancient" their debut album, released in November 2011,recorded and mixed at Urbansound Studios and mastered at the famous Parlour Studios is 9 tracks of metal from a band in full flow.


Receiving rave reviews all round, including Terrorizer magazine "Armed with TESTAMENT riffs and VIO-LENCE tone go straight for the jugular" and Planetmosh's 9.5/10 " Quite simply,as debut albums go, the quality of material here is on a par with Burn My Eyes by Machine Head.


"The video for the song "The Ancients" taken from the album, aired on SCUZZ tv, gives you a prime example of what this band is capable of! It has also be aired on Kerrang radio along with many other stations world wide.Derision were personally asked by BLOODSTOCK director, Vicky Gregory, to play in 2012 on the SOPHIE LANCASTER STAGE, a great honour for the band,Metal Hammer's 8/10 review for

 their performance raved "Derisions driving, groove-centred thrash upped the aggression with panache" thus promted Hammers chief editor Alexander MIlas to specifically mention Derision on the Hammer podcast"I saw Derisions Bloodstock set, and they were Phenomenal"


They played alongside such luminaries as ALICE COOPER, TESTAMENT & MACHINE HEAD,SEPULTURA, In 2012 they were asked to support mighty UK thrashers EVILE on a leg of their 'five serpents teeth tour'2013 sees the recruitment of a second guitarist, giving Derision a whole new added dimension to their sound and live performance. April/May will see derision release a 5 track EP including 3 new songs & a DVD of their acclaimed Bloodstock set. It will also see the release of their second, as yet untitled album, scheduled for release in November. 


Description"The quartet ,armed with their testament riffs and vio-lence tone, "The Ancients"a barrage of early 80,s thrash riffs coupled with the borderline death metal sound that gave the teutonic bands their edge.As far as modern thrash goes this is rather a promising start,shying away from the pastiche and going for the jugular.



Website
www.derisionband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Derision">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.