Des Mitchell. DJ & Music Producer
                                                    
                                                     TMP (the mitchell project)
                                                       www.desmitchell.co.uk
                                       http://www.ilike.com/artist/Des+Mitchell 
                  “Welcome to the dance”      “Heart of Asia”    “The World is Yours”
                                                 'Lets stay together'     'Alive'

Not many DJ's can claim to have a top 5 hit record
“welcome to the dance” and a top 3 remix ”Heart of Asia” in the official UK charts and add to that a number 1 dance record worldwide, plus his tracks covering the globe on over 70 compilations..... Being a father of 4 keeps his well adjusted mind and his feet on the ground add to that he's an all round nice guy to go with it    :)

Well step forward  Des Mitchell.                  The short biog is this :)

A seasoned DJ in Mallorca at BCM Planet Dance (18 summer years) and has had the pleasure to work alongside some of the best names in the dj world,
Tiesto, Judge Jules, Carl Cox, Oaki, Danny Tenaglia, Eric Morillo, Roger Sanchez, Tall Paul, Anne Savage, Paul Taylor, George Morel, Armand van helden, Laurent Garnier, Pete tong and the list goes on, These star DJ's also hold Des in the highest esteem which is high praise indeed.
When not traveling the world working clubs during the winter you find him at home in Mallorca in the Balearic islands.
The last 4 years he's been a regular resident dj for Ministry of sound in Thailand Taiwan and Singapore. The first two have sadly closed but Singapore marches on opening up new doors for new breed of DJ's coming through in ASIA.
Last winter 06/07 Des opened a luxury club for Sheraton on the Maldive island of Fesdu & the W Hotel was born. Des said "its probably the easiest and most beautiful winter for me ever"

This winter 08 into 09 he'll be working on new music with
Christian Davies who Des says is going to be the producer for a new generation ☺

Music projects that are happening for Des right now are in the list below, There is also a plan ahead to create a cool house music night.

Desire started in Ibiza 2002/3 @ Eden superclub in IBIZA while Des was resident there alongside the female dancefloor destroyer Sara (ninja girl) G and also miss Vicky Devine.
Des wants to take it a stage further by putting the night DESIRE into clubs around Europe.

Small edits of these tracks    -    DESIRE,  ALIVE,  EVERYBODY LOVES GOOD MUSIC,               WICKED & WILD,  CALL ME and other great Des Mitchell club tracks can be heard on the ilike.com site along with other productions and songs written by Des  & his
TMP (the mitchell project) partners. studio partner Christian Davies & singers Bobby Alexander, Sarangati & Sara (devine inspiration) Scott.

New music out right now is "ALIVE" (you make me feel) -  featuring the vocal talents of Sara Scott, check it out on BIG IN IBIZA LABEL there are 4 mixes in all. INDEMAND MUSIC.COM

         Released on SOULHEAT RECORDS NOW is Des Mitchell feat SARANAGATI
                                     "LETS STAY TOGETHER" in full mix package.

                                       Find it on Beatport & all other download shops. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Des+Mitchell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.