There is currently more than one artist with this name:

1. DESCENDER is an American hardcore/metal band based in Brooklyn, NY. Formed in mid 2007. 
Taking their name from an obscure typographic term, Descender is a Brooklyn-based band made up of four graphic designers. Drawing on influences ranging from early '90s indie and punk rock to hardcore and new progressive metal, Descender effortlessly fuses together a sound that defies easy classification. Often sidestepping traditional verse/chorus conventions, their songs are short and to the point, but also richly textured. Try to imagine a hint of Sonic Youth's wall of guitars, Snapcase's brutal breakdowns and Fugazi's anthemic energy mixed with Slayer's unrelenting metal riffs and you'll have a reference point for Descender. 

Over the last year Descender has been making a name for itself playing regularly in NYC-area clubs, basement venues and DIY loft spaces. The band just finished recording their debut self-titled EP in Greenpoint, and are releasing it initially in limited edition hand-numbered silkscreened packaging. A short tour of the Southeast begins July 29th, including dates at the 40Watt in Athens, and the Jinx in Savannah. As three of the four band members attended design school in Georgia, it's no surprise that they share a kinship with the new wave of heavy music coming from the Empire State of the South. It must be something in the water.  

2. Descender is also a Croatian thrash metal band formed in Zagreb.
Playing since 2008.
Influences are many, some of them are Slayer, Sepultura, Kreator, Exodus, Testament...

3. Descender is *also* a Texas rock band comprised of guitarist and vocalist Casey Hess (Doosu, Burden Brothers), bassist Zack Busby (Slow Roosevelt, Burden Brothers), guitarist Jeff Gruber, and drummer Duncan Black (ICBM, 3faced). Descender's first album, Army of Elephants, was released in May 2010.

In Descender, Hess has become the anchor of a veteran quartet.  Their live show is an onslaught of power when they want it to be.  The buzzsaw guitars of Little Power, Busby's pounding bass on the title track, and the power of Black's massive kick drum and talent throughout the set establish Descender as one of the heaviest rock bands in DFW right now. Descender is not limited to the heavy stuff, however.  Barely a Move and What Was Missing show Hess's ability to draw a listener in with lyrics that raise just as many questions as rock fists.

Work has already begun on their second album. (August 2010)


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Descender">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.