1) Descent is the isolationist ambient side project of Chris Coccia from Monotremata.

2) West London based DESCENT are a 4 piece death-thrash-core metal band originally started in 2000, but evolved into the current wrecking machine (line up since mid 2003).The album “This Violent Reality” was released through Corellian records in Autumn 2007.

3) Brazilian ambient/noise/drone one-man project.
http://descent.bandcamp.com

4) Descent (Eyal Federman) has made a huge impact with his many 12" productions and memorable DJ sets across the states and abroad. After a slew of best selling releases, Descent continues to extend his worldwide profile with remixes for heavyweight labels such as Lost Language & Baroque. Descent's groundbreaking productions and remixes are regulars in the sets of Paul Oakenfold, Sasha, Seb Fontaine, Satoshi Tommie, Hernan Cattaneo, James Zabiela, Paul Van Dyk, D:Fuse, Max Graham, Taylor, and Dave Ralph. Descent's productions top the world's most prestigious charts on a regular basis, are played on the most respected radio shows including John Digweed's Kiss FM Show, BBC Radio One's Essential Mix and Descent is also one of only three US artists chosen to remix the classic Energy 52 "Cafe Del Mar". In addition to his original production work. Descent is also available as a fully-fledged sound designer. Descent has crafted his own unique and cutting edge sound that is well suited to today's multimedia applications. While dance music is his primary focus, he has also produced an original piece for television, created his own Sample CD and produced various pop artists. Most recently, Descent was scouted to create the music and sound for a Nike commercial. Descent also produced the accompanying scores for pioneering graphics houses AlphaChannel, and 2advanced. Here he gives a two tracker for highly regarded new Portuguese label Open Up. "Lost Feeling" is a brooding but energetic journey through, house tech & even a touch of trance, which has found favour with the likes of John Digweed, Sasha, Hernan Cattaneo and Anthony Pappa to name a few. "Caged" is a rougher diamond, and while keeping the quality strong it gets a bit dirtier & driving! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Descent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.