Curently there are two bands with this name:
1) A melodic death metal band from Sweden (formed in 2005)
2) A melodic death/thrash metal band from Greece (formed in 2007)

----
1)
Descending were formed from the former members of the band Scenskräck (Stagefright) in the summer of 2005. The lineup back then was Rickard Apelstav on leadguitar, Anders Lundvall on the rythmguitar aswell as Alexandra Andersson on the drums. The same Summer the bassplayer Michael Skalenius joined the band aswell as a temporary vocalist who after a few months chosed to quit.

In the Autumn the same year the band creative spirit was nearly to none and all energy was focused on finding a new vocalist and several were tried but no one was fit for the role. But in November Kristofer Boström joined the crew and his crude, though strong voice were going to change the music of Descending forever.

In the Spring of 2006 the next hard blow struck the band when their drummer Alexandra announced that she was moving to the US for a year and the search for a new drummer began, resulting in a temporary drummer by the name Rasti. Though to personal reasons he was forced to leave the band in the Summer and his place was filled by Simon Zachrisson, a experienced black-metal drummer and old friend of Kristofer.

In the Autumn the band recorded their first EP, End of Eternity, which was to represent the future sound of Descending. Thouh so far not developed entirely. The EP was, due to lack of studio time, not exactly what the band had hoped for but all good for a first record with two relativly new members in Simon and Kristofer.

Shortly after End of Eternity Michael left the band to focus on his athletic career and that is where we are today, in search of a new member but constantly writing new material and new songs comin up in Beyond Silence, Ode to the Winter's Eve, Basks in Twilight, Post Scriptum and Dawn of a New Era.
----
2)
Hailing straight from Athens, Greece, ''DESCENDING'' a totally new modern death/thrash metal band combining both bombastic aggressive metal riffage and melodic hook lines in their songs.

Their debut album ''ENTER ANNIHILATION'' is going to shake the foundations of modern metal community! This modern metal masterpiece features astonishing belting vocals by Jon Simvonis giving a deadly touch with his wide range of vocal palette, from deep growls-to ecstatic emotional screams.

Also blazing rhythm/lead guitar work by a new guitar hero Constantine(ex-Nightrage) who combines his fast and furious solo pyrotechnics along with his strong melodic phrasing giving to the album a unique flavour of his own shredcore fashion. ''DESCENDING" consist their powerful line-up with Antony, a great drummer and student of George Kollias (Nile), intense rhythm guitar player Theo and bass violator Noir.

Their debut album features compositions from aggressive and machine gun guitar riffage such as "Enter Annihilation", "Horror Show", ''Day To Die=Die Today" up to more melodic and hook-line tunes like "Your Valentine" ''Killer Instict'', ''Raging Cold Blood'' that are definetely going to establish their presence in the metal scene and draw fans of Arch Enemy, The Haunted ,Trivium, At The Gates and more modern metal bands.

Keep an eye on "ENTER ANNIHILATION" for mid summer release of 2008 by Massacre Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Descending">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.