Descenery (formerly Equalusion) is the main musical project of Slava «Hadfes Oblivion», a musician from Nakhodka. Early in 2014, with ready material to work with, Slava decides to get down to recording a debut full-length album and begins to form his studio lineup. Egor Karasev was invited to do the bass duties, Stephan Kobiakin (Finding Sanity, ex-Summoned Hell, ex-A Dream of Poe) took responsibility for keyboards, and the guitar parts were distributed between Igor «EinarSnow» Plotnikov, who is Slava’s good friend and co-member in an international project «The World Within», and Slava himself. The recording began, but the geographical distance between the musicians made for the slow pace of the process, eventually leading to a temporary stop in the project's development.
The group’s lineup suffered some changes in early 2015: Igor was replaced by Leon «Relentless» from Erase the Edge, and Phil Romeo (Countless Skies) from UK took over bass. They continued to work on the release and decided to tell the world about the project by releasing the first single. Mikhail Myshalov (Nosorog Records) was involved to help with the mixing.
The single was out in March 2016; the vocals for the song, titled «No Way», were done by Sebastian Najder from HellHaven, a Polish band. Inspired by the listeners’ positive feedback, the musicians went on working on the full-length album. Sebastian being busy in his main band, they offered Mick Armstrong (Atma Weapon) to join the project. Upon Mick's agreement the ensemble opted to release another single - «Divided». Soon Slava joined Leon’s main band Erase the Edge as a bass guitarist. They played a show in Vladivostok's BSB Club, and then decided to concentrate on studio work with both musical projects. Apart from that, Slava comes back to recording an LP for his other band — The World Within.
In spring 2017 the lengthy creation of Descenery’s debut album was over, and it was scheduled for release later in summer.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Descenery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.