In the spring of 2002 the Danish Melo-death/Black-metal band "Descensus" was formed in Ribe. Bass player/lead singer Asbjørn Steffensen and guitar player Mads Gath had been wanting to make some brutal melo-metal for a long time. They hooked up with drummer Mikkel Carlsson and guitar player Kristian Bjerg, and the foundation to the band was hereby formed. However, the band members wanted to add some new elements to their Swedish-inspired death metal. Therefore they decided to bring keyboard player Esben Michelsen into the band. This provided the music with a touch of symphonic black metal. The band soon realized that it wasn´t expedient having Asbjørn doing both the bass playing and the singing (screaming). Therefore they brought in Thomas Callesen to be the new bass player in Descensus. The five guys quickly composed some flesh-ripping tracks which combined Swedish death metal-riffs with a vicious black metal-atmosphere.  In the spring of 2003 Descensus had its live-debute, when the band attended a local band contest. They didn´t win, but they managed to impress both the judges and the audience with their original combination of melo-death and black metal.   Shortly after participating in the contest, Descensus decided to record three of their songs in the RIAMUF Studios with producer Jan Lauridtsen (former guitar player in "Into Dementia"). The songs in that session were: "Winter Breeze", "Solitary Disbelief" and "Pang". The demo that was named "Winterbreeze ´03", was a rather primitive mix of Swedish death metal and symphonic black metal. In spite of the primitive music and sound on the demo, it was well recieved by the audience and got some pretty good reviews. The band was complimented for their originality and their ability to unite melody and brutality.  In the time following Winterbreeze ´03, Descensus was opening act for such bands as Sacrificial, Hatesphere, Slugs and Mevadio. These gigs developed the band´s live-experience, but also the band itself. In the fall of 2003, Descensus returned to RIAMUF Studios to record what was to be the demo called "As Darkness Descends". This demo was also produced by Jan Lauridtsen. The music still consisted of elements from both Swedish death metal and symphonic black metal, but this time the band felt that everything was much better written. Shortly after As Darkness Descends was recorded, bass player Thomas Callesen decided to leave the band. The gap that Thomas had left was hard to fill, but after a while using various bass players from other local metal bands, Descensus found guitar player Bjarke Tornbjerg (former member of "Into Dementia"). Bjarke took over Kristians job handeling the guitar, and Kristian started playing bass. Bjarkes prescence in Descensus gave the band some new inspiration, and soon they had a whole bunch of new songs ready. About the same time, Esben went away to attend a new school, and therefore he left the band as well. In the spring of 2004, Descensus attended the same band contest, as they had been in the year before. This time they won third place out of 30 bands. Descensus has just finished recording the band´s third demo, which will be named "Bewildered Existence". The demo was produced by Asmus Thomsen (Sacrificial, Slugs), and Joakim Eskildsen played keyboard on the recordings. In winter 2005, Descensus released their latest promo, Exploited Innocence. In the beginning of 2006, the drummer, Mikkel Carlsson, decided to take a break. The current line-up is Asbjørn Steffensen, vocals, Mads Gath, guitar, Bjarke Tornbjerg, guitar, Kristian Bjerg, bass, and Steen (?), drums. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Descensus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.