There are multiple artists with the name:

1) Desecration is  a brutal death metal band from Wales. The band have been causing controversy since 1995 when their "Gore & Perversion" album was infamously seized and incinerated by the police due to its offensive content. The band was told to “tone right down”, but the band continued.

Since then the band have gone from strength to strength with "Murder In Mind" in 1998, "Inhuman" in 2000 and "Pathway To Deviance" in 2002, all by the label Copro Records. "Gore & PerVersion 2" (a re-recording of the original album) which enabled better production and distribution than the original.

Now, with over ten years of experience, six studio albums and countless live performances with the likes of Vader, Decapitated, Morbid Angel and Deicide. The band released "Process of Decay" in 2005 on Copro records and set on the rampage with tours around United States and Europe. This is a concept album, dealing with the complete decomposition of a corpse from the moment of the murder through to the burial. Their albums are regarded as one of the most brutal yet catchy bands around at this time.

2) Desecration was a thrash-inflected hardcore punk band from Arizona,USA. The band fromed around 1980 and were very prominant around those days. They had a sound very similar to grindcore forerunners like Siege and Repulsion though with more audible thrash metal influences. They released one demo, the 'Who's in Control?' 12" EP in 1986 and a split LP with Subverse on Manic Ears Records in 1987 and participated on a couple of compilations before its members encountered a difference of musical direction within the band. The singer wanted to continue playing in their original style, whereas the others wanted a more goth/dark-wave sound. Since this was such an extreme polarization in stylistic ambition, The band split up. 

3) Desecration is a grindcore band from Brazil, formed in 1991. They have participated on a split called "Grindattack!" with Groinchurn, Parental Advisory and others.

4) Desecration was a Death/Thrash metal band from San Francisco, California. Between 1985 and 1989 they released a number of demo, rehearsal and live cassettes.And in 2012 split with POSSESSED The Martyr's Wake / Cowboys in Bondage, 2015 compilation Dead... Yet, Not Forgotten.    Their singer Bob Yost briefly played with legendary death metal band Possessed, and Chris Reifert of Autopsy once played a gig with them.

5) Desecration is a  black metal band from Sweden.

6) Desecration is a death metal band from Poland.

7) Desecration is a death metal band from Italy

8) Desecration is a black/death metal band from Indonesia

9) Desecration is a black metal band from Germany

10) Desecration is a black metal band from Illinois, USA.

11) Desecration is a  speed metal band from Maryland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Desecration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.