Beneath the cracks thrives an endless pursuit of a promised land.
The journey consumes the soul..lost in a spiritual stranglehold .
One dimension revels in indulgence, another starves for another breath. 

Two worlds collide. .

The rage of duality comes screaming from the wombs of god

The Design.. Chaos 

The massive sound of D.O.C has moved from strength to strength, spitting in the face of adversity for the last two years. 
Designs of Chaos delivers a brand of dynamic, textured and infectious metal with influences of thrash and rock, best described as "Huge metal music with longevity."
Swaying between melodic passages, memorable choruses and blasts of brutal energy, this bands unique sound is a direct product of its member’s wealth of experience, commitment and most of all, passion. 

REVIEWS OF COHESION http://playlouder.com/content/17573/album-review-designs-of-chaos-cohesion 

Metal experienced something of a renaissance period around 2006 when Bring Me The Horizon led a new wave of british bands away from pop punk sugary sweetness and Nu Metal macho bullshit in to a far darker, deeper, place, effectively combining Metal, Hardcore, drop B tuning, and black metal-style vocals. Partly due to the terrible wave of bands (aside from Architects) who tried to copy them, and partly due to the fact that their straightened hair, skinny jeans and adolescent look made sure most true metal fans wouldn't take them seriously, the scene has gone back underground.
When metal goes underground it tends to re-invent itself as something much darker, and so here is where Designs Of Chaos step in with an album, more of a statement of intent, a primal band angry and desperate with the world they see around them. Vocalist Mark Campbell is unapologetically bleak throughout the ten brutal tracks, lines like: "Forty-seven ways I'm gonna hurt you, forty-seven ways I'm gonna make you die" puts him toe-to-toe with anything Hatebreed have produced thusfar. His range loops from James Hetfield style lead on "Destination Chaos" and the aforementioned BMTH Death Metal style on "Forsaken," and everything inbetween.
I remember one year at Ozzfest the pit at Cradle Of Filth opened up during an actual hailstorm (seriously) and a group of guys in viking hats were literally headbutting each other during their last song. I could see Designs Of Chaos having a similar effect on a festival crowd.
It's early days of DOC just now, but after just one listen through of this terrifying record, you wouldn't wanna be the one to try and stop them. Don't forget-Forty Seven different ways! 


" Designs of Chaos were something of a revelation tonight. I'd heard a copy of their debut album 'Cohesion' and been largley unimpressed but on the underworld stage I was blown away by the improvements they have made since that lacklustre offering. Their opening couple of songs in particular were quite brilliant hard metal anthems. The big snarling riffs were topped off by some excellent powerful vocals and I actually felt quite excited by what this band might be capable of."
 

"Chris Kee - Power play"



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Designs+of+Chaos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.