Desolate Ways is a Gothic Metal band from Brazil.

The Desolate Ways’ story began in 1998, in a South-Brazilian city called Torres, when four childhood friends decided to make up a band to blend heavy metal and the gothic rock from the 80’. Two years later, after building up its own style, the band had its first and only demo tape released. This self-titled work, including four tracks, was responsible for the first band’s contract signed with the Brazilian label Avernus Records.

The first album, called Eternal Dreams, set the band among the most significant Brazilian bands on the style. Acclaimed by the specialized media, the work of Desolate Ways had achieved a singular sonority, using gothic nuances without losing sight of its real purpose: to be a heavy metal band. Such approach could be labeled as introspective metal.

In the second album, entitled Tearful, Desolate Ways impressed once again. It was visible the band evolution and the successful work on building its own musical identity. The album was heavier and also had a better production when compared to the debut. This record brought new opportunities to the band that was invited to big festivals in the south of Brazil, like the River Rock Festival and the Orquídea Negra Festival. They also had the chance to appear in numerous websites in countries like Norway and Poland and set the band’s name known around the globe. The single Drowned in Tears originated a new video that was largely broadcasted in Europe through a Czech TV channel.

The next chapter to the band’s career was going to be written - the deal signed with the Brazilian label Die Hard Records. The new album, called Last Moons, comes to show a darker and heavier side of Desolate Ways. The mix of gothic rock and heavy metal is intensified in this new work. The members locked themselves in the Nitro Sounds Solutions studio, located in Caxias do Sul, to record ten brand new tracks. The band counted with Earth (Seduced by Suicide) to produce the new album and the result was far better than the previous works. The sad melodies are still present, paying tribute to the gothic side of the band influences. The cover art was made by Anderson L.A. and once again impresses for its quality. The new single, called Regret, is available to download on the Internet. The goth metallers are back.

The band split up in 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Desolate+Ways">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.