Hengelo (gld), The Netherlands. (2012 - )

In the cold wintery months of December 2012, in a house surrounded by industrialized buildings. The members of Desolate Fields first meet each other, and it is said to be good, for then it was decided that there should be a new band. The name wasn’t important at the time, it was the music that mattered!

Growing up in Rijssen, Gerben had strong musical influences of the sinister sounding church organs, but then he got introduced to the art of black and death metal, and other genres followed shortly. Armed with this wide musical flavour; Gerben started writing his own songs, trying to combine both parts of his life into the music. After some time Gerben, and his fellow student Mark, decided to try and form a band, and after a seemingly coincidental meeting between Mark and Alex, the basic line up was formed.

While the months got warmer, work got done on the music that Gerben had been writing for the past years, rewriting and rearranging the songs. An additional member was found in Jochem, who would show to be very versatile as he switches between keys guitar and bass. With the lack of a singer, Alex started off doing the vocals on a cover song and turned out to be quite capable of playing guitar while producing a lot of noise with his mouth, which motivated Jochem to try the same. 

More music has been created and in June 2013 the first demo song Grey was released, some more practicing to complete the live performance was done before hitting the stage for the first time in September. On stage, however, it became clear that doing vocals while playing guitar limited Alex in his guitar play. The decision was made to put Jochem in the front, as he is more than capable to scream/grunt and do clean vocals. This opened up space for a bass player, who was found in Martijn, and the music was taken to a new level.

Just after the line-up change the second demo was released, called Heeding the Call, which features two songs recorded and produced by Gerben.

The songs themselves range from black metal up to progressive death, but it will always be ambient and full of different emotions and colours. We are influenced by bands like: 
Swallow the Sun, Achallog, Dimmu Borgir, Opeth, Textures, Gojira, Alcest, Solstafír, In Mourning. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Desolate+Fields">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.