Despondent Chants was formed in mid 2002 by Carlos and Miguel Medina , initially as a personal project because at that time both were part of Slowdeath (Heavy Thrash), driven by the desire to develop a sound that is identified more with their influences and musical tastes, led to the composition of several songs sound heavily influenced by the Doom Metal.

For a short period songs were rehearsed, but due to unavailability of other instruments required on issues which prevented a more steady progress was necessary to include support from some musician friends: Miguel Vergara , (ex Slow Death ) on bass and Cevallos Adler on guitar. So many songs were completed while the search began for a drummer and that's how they contacted Emmerson Macedo in the first months of 2003.

The band performs for the first time in mid-2003 in the concert called " The Lament Of The Gods ", getting a good response from the audience, then on various events in Cuzco as well as in other provinces.

With this lineup the band starts working on the first songs to shape their first demo, which was achieved record 2004, the first show was titled Despondent Chants and contains 6 tracks: 

1. Whispers (Intro) 
2. Forest of Burning Souls 
3. Silent Fields 
4. Through These Dreams 
5. Forgotten Roses on my Grave 
6. In the Arms of Death (outro) 

These issues were warmly welcomed by the national metal scene and especially for fans of Doom Metal, obtaining very good reviews despite the fact that there was no adequate dissemination of the material. When the recording ended Emmerson decided to leave the band for personal study and was replaced by Harold Farfan . After a few months Cevallos Adler left the band, taking their place in the band Blake Apaza . With this new lineup the band played in different parts of Peru to positive reviews from the audience, which gave the band a lot more confidence.

They were also invited to a festival in the city of Iquique Chile, but for a number of problems could not be present. After this Harold Farfan leaves the band, which is why the band was forced to cancel many shows. Then since August 2006, after several months of writing and rehearsals, the band enters the studio to record what is the second demo in which you get better sound and production conditions. Parallel to this and after a long search the band found a new drummer, Yuri Mena , whom he held several presentations, but after a while because of personal situations and Yuri left the band. The continuing problem of instability with the drummers led to a dramatic shift in the alignment of the band, passing Carlos on drums and with the inclusion of Irrarazabal Victor on guitar, with training already conducted several presentations in Cusco and in other cities.

Having overcome many problems is continuing with the second edition of the demo which is expected to be removed in the coming months of this year. 
The current alignment of Despondent Chants is: 

- Miguel Medina (vocals) 
- Blake Apaza (Guitars) 
- Miguel Vergara (bass) 
- Victor Irrarazabal (Guitar) 
- Carlos Medina (drums) 

To appreciate some of the first demo tracks and a preview of the new, visit:

http:// www.myspace.com / despondentchants 
http://www.despondentchants.tk/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Despondent+Chants">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.