Desperado is one of several artists:

1) Desperado is a UK grime MC popular to underground MC's www.myspace.com/desperado0001
Born in Dagenham Essex, and then moved to notorious Peckham South London at the age of three after his parents separated. His love for music started at a very tender age, as his mother’s partner (who had worked with the late great Bob Marley, soul 2 soul along with many other artists) had a studio at home, so he grew up in a very musically orientated household.

2) Petri Hietikko alias Desperado is Finnish guitarist from Kuopio, born in November, 9. Petri have had some music projects in the past like;  Refrain  and other heavy metal projects. Nowdays he plays in band called  Project Silence . ( http://www.projectsilence.info/ & http://www.refrain.dy.fi/ )

3) Desperado is the premier Eagles tribute band comprised of Aaron Broering, Kevin O'Connell, Brad Zapper, and John Morrison. ( http://www.desperadolive.com/about/index.html )

4) Desperado is a country-rock band based in Cluj-Napoca, Romania, formed in 1998.
They now play with Tony Poptamas as Desperado & Tony Poptamas

5) Desperado is  Hungarian popgroup of 3 members formed in 1993. They have released five albums so far: Kívánhatsz bármit (2000), Gyere és álmodj (2002),  Csak egy perc (2004), Táncolj (2006) and Érezd a zenét (2008).

6) Desperado is an Alternative band from Russia.

7) Desperado is a hardcore band from Trondheim, Norway.

8) Desperado is a Korean metal band. Their actual last.fm page is 데스페라도.

9) The most mysterious Dee Snider project started in 1988. The first and only concert they played was in Birmingham's "International Club" in 1988. They debut album was recorded in 88-89 for Elektra Records contract and planned for release in may 1990. The band split shortly after the label decision not to release the record. Currently album distributing as bootleg under the title "Bloodied, But Unbowed" and as official release under the title "Ace".

Line-up:
vocals - Dee Snider
guitar - Bernie Torme (ex-Gillan, ex-Ozzy Osbourne, ex-Mammoth)
drums - Clive Burr (ex-Gogmagog, ex-Alcatrazz, ex-Elixir, ex-Iron Maiden, ex-Trust, ex-Samson)
bass guitar - Marc Russell
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Desperado">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.