diy hardcore band from upper-austria, r.i.p.

One of the most outstanding hardcore-bands from austria. with a heavy heavy-metal background they were founded in 1994 and developed to a hardcore-band which has it’s influences not so much from the hyped bands from overseas but in the austrian/german diy-hardcore–scene. no surprise as bands like KURORT and DEADZIBEL had a big impact in the mid-90ies in this area in upper-austria from where DC come from. they showed the kids there how to act autonomous and self-confident and of course also influenced the music-scene there in a political way. as KURORT and DEADZIBEL DESPERATE CRY are also have a lot of metal-influences in their hardcorepunk but also always this special “austro-core”-sound. they also remind to the GRAUEN ZELLE at times of their “voran ins gestern”-record, just more rough and aggressive.
since ever DC wanted to write serious lyrics in their native language german. the lyrics are always political but in a very personal way, and mainly they are sad. 
in 1997 they released their first single „PURPURROTE TRÄUME“, the next 2 7“s finalised the trilogy, „DESPERADO“ in 1999 and „MONSTER 2XXX“, the split-7“ with BBS PARANOICOS from chile in 2000. it took them very long to make their full-length debut. but as all good things... this record is more varying then anything DC did till then. beside the - as usually - very charismatic vocals between hysterical screaming and emotional „talking“, groovy-metallic hardcore and high-speed-punk-attacks they also have some classic rock influences like BLACK SABBATH, AC/DC, KYUSS or UNIDA. they also put in some noisy-experimental stull like the MELVINS could have done it. 
DC made some diy-tours through autonomous centres in austria, germany, switzerland, czech republic and belgium. simon (the vocalist) also plays bass in APPEND:X, also a highly energetic rocking hardcore-band from upper-austria like we miss them since the 90ies. unfortunately DC split up in 2005. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Desperate+Cry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.