Destruktor was formed in Bendigo, Victoria, Australia in 1995 by Glenn and Jarro, out of the ashes of their previous band "Aphasia" their genre can be catagorised with death metal, black metal and thrash metal, Making it Blackened Deathrash!

the first Destruktor demo “the holy trinity… denied” (1997) consisted of 3 tracks of high energy black metal, with much higher pitched shrieking vocals as opposed to the more typical death metal growls of their latter material. Shortly after the release of this demo the band would recruit Regan on bass duties.

In 2002 “Brutal Desecration” saw the band take a more black/death metal approach, pumping out 4 tunes of raw, simplistic, yet still pounding and brutal tracks… Chris Volcano (Abominator) stepped in for session drumming duties on this EP.
another track titled “unholy victory massacre” would be recorded during this session, and released on a 12” compilation called “Barbaric Onslaught - Australian metal assault” through Decius productions

after the release of brutal desecration the band would play a couple of live shows around the country, with Jarro stepping back in on drumming duties… a live show in Melbourne would be recorded for the split 7”ep with Nunslaughter put out on Jarro’s own Apocalyptor Records

at the end of 2002 the band would enter the studio again to record their MLP “Nuclear Storm”
a whirlwind of blackened death/war metal that would live up to its aptly named title and get the band recognized on a much more international scale, “Nuclear Storm” would see the band take their songwriting skills further yet another step (without straying from their unique sound defined in the brutal desecration EP) and would arguably their strongest material yet.
( unfortunately due to issues with the mastering of this beast and finding a record label to release it, the actual release of this EP would be delayed until 2004, the LP version coming out even later in 2007)

Shortly after the Recording of “Nuclear Storm”, disaster would strike with the drummer Jarro leaving the band in order to focus on his own band “Nocturnal Graves”, leaving Destruktor without a drummer and bringing the machine to a standstill…

the following year or 2 would see the re-release of the Brutal Desecration on Cassette and Destruktor would finally find a new drummer, Jahred to get the band rolling again… 

with the addition of the new drummer, Destruktor would play several live shows in 2004-2005 and bring the band back to what seemed to be their most active stage yet. The band would enter the studio in 2006 to finally record some new material for a split with Bestial Mockery which would see the light of day in early 2007.

Metal of Death would consist of 1 brand new track (Meccademon) and 1 old track (Hail the Black Goat) which was previously only ever played live. The addition of Jahred on drums would allow the band to yet again make a progression in their music, yet still keeping the typical Destruktor sound alive.

Shortly after the release of metal of death, Regan would leave bass duties and cause the band to come to another hiccup. fortunately the band had most of the tracks for a full length release pretty much ready when this happened and Glenn - after having trouble finding a new bassist, would eventually go into the studio and record Guitar, vocals and bass for what will be the band’s debut full length “Nailed”
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Destruktor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.