Dethklok is both a virtual band featured in the Adult Swim animated program Metalocalypse, as well as a real band created in 2006 to perform the band's melodic death metal music in live shows. Both bands were created by Brendon Small and Tommy Blacha. The music heard on Metalocalypse is performed by Brendon Small, with others as needed.

In the Metalocalypse series, Dethklok is depicted as an extremely popular and successful death metal band. The band's fan base includes billions of metal fanatics, who frequently endanger themselves to watch the band perform live. With their widespread commercial success and lucrative sponsorship contracts, Dethklok is ranked as the world's seventh largest economy by the end of the second season.

The members of Dethklok are often portrayed as incompetent at almost everything not related to their profession. The band struggles to perform everyday tasks, including shopping for groceries, preparing food, and maintaining proper social relationships. They are often assisted by their manager and lawyer, Charles Foster Ofdensen, who frequently attempts to prevent the band from making poor decisions. The band's actions and uncanny misfortune have caught the attention of an Illuminati-style council, known as The Tribunal. The Tribunal is portrayed as Dethklok's antagonist throughout the series, and secretly monitors their actions in almost every episode. They describe Dethklok as the "world's greatest cultural force." The leader of The Tribunal (Mr. Selatcia), however, frequently instructs the other members to allow Dethklok to do as they will.

The on show members of Dethklok are:
Nathan Explosion - Vocals
Skwisgaar Skwigelf - Lead Guitar
Toki Wartooth - Rhythm Guitar
William Murderface - Bass
Pickles - The Drummer

Magnus Hammersmith - Original rhythm guitarist

The real life performers
Brendon Small – vocals, guitar, bass, keyboards
Gene Hoglan – drums (2007–present)
Bryan Beller – bass (2012–present)

Live - with addition to / replace of  
Mike Keneally – guitar, backing vocals
Pete Griffin – bass (2012)
Nili Brosh - guitar (2019)

Mordhaus, United States <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dethklok">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.