2004 
Band formed by Iiro Kosonen & Jaakko Riihimäki. Soon after the decision of forming the band they found a drummer, Vesa Kankaanpää. 
2005 
First own songs created, second guitarist Joona Rauhamäki joined the band early in the spring. Somewhere around September Joona was replaced by Olli Hurme. With this setup the band was supposed to record their first demo in November, but 2 days before the studio Vesa left the band. 
2006 
In the beginning of the year the band had a sessiondrummer, Lauri Itälä (from Gladenfold) for a few months and they recorded the first demo "Struggle" in April. Soon after the recording band found a regular drummer, Tommi Ilmanen. First gig played in July with this setup. After the gig band made a lot of new songs and entered studio to record second demo "Disorder" in September and had more gigs, including a 5-gig minitour with Sinister Creation and Gladenfold. 
2007 
More gigs around Finland and studio in the summer to record a 3-song promo. Pre-production, mixing and making the layout took so much time that band had the actual promo "Arts of the insane" in its physical form out in the next year. 
2008 
In January band played with Dismember and Demonical, as a warmup band on their tour in Finland. A few days after the tour the Promo was released. In March Iiro, Tommi and Jaakko decided to kick Olli Hurme out from the band for personal issues and played their first (and last) gig as a trio in April. After the gig Markus Vainio joined the band to replace Olli Hurme and first gig with Markus was played in July. Later in the year after long discussions with Jaakko we decided that he would left the band because he wanted to focus more on playing different kind of music. 
2009 
Ville Vesalainen joins the band to replace Jaakko in January. In late August Dethera started to work for a new release, which will be released later this year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dethera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.