Dethlehem... a band of warriors on a quest for one of two things: achieving maximum XP or delivering face-melting melodic-metal, whichever comes first. When their home realm, Ghorusalem (Pittsburgh, PA), fell to an ancient evil, the group of heroes rose together to do battle under the cursed sky! Influenced by melodic metal, progressive rock, maidens in distress, epic solos, RPGs, and delicious ale, Dethlehem brings a unique, tongue-in-cheek stage show to each realm they visit. Huge inflatable sword battles in the crowd, an 8' tall fog-breathing stage dragon, treasure goblins, and beautiful maidens are not at all uncommon. Dethlehem's light show, harnessed by studying ancient spell-books known today as "Manuals For Operation," adds to the intensity.

Lyrically, Dethlehem tell their mythos linearly across a series of albums known as "The Ghorusalem Codex", with each song telling of their journey to save their land. "Volume I: Enthroned Upon A Spire" (2009) explained the origin of a treasure-hungry, shapeshifting goblin-dragon named Yagolith and his rise to power over the land of Ghorusalem. Residing in the capital city, Dethlehem (the band's namesake), Yagolith commanded undead armies, ancient dragons, soul-hags and frost giants to do his bidding. Out of this tyranny, the realm's only defense were the warriors of Dethlehem, banded together from across the land to defeat the evil plaguing their land. Returning home after their victory against Yagolith, "The Ghorusalem Codex, Volume II: Of Magick & Tyranny" (2011) finds the warriors learning that their villages had been destroyed by a new evil. Dregmour, a powerful warlock, is opening ancient portals to an unknown shadow realm to unleash chaotic evil upon Ghorusalem. The warriors of Dethlehem once again band together and quest to completion.

Since 2008, Dethlehem has been leveling up, combining metal, comedy, partying, and fun into an entertaining stage show. Since being selected as a finalist in Metal Insider & Scion's Top 20 "No Label Needed" unsigned metal band contest in 2010, Dethlehem has picked up momentum with plans to increase their already busy touring schedule. These RPG-Metal warriors have shared the stage with the likes of GWAR, Gojira, Protest the Hero, Powerglove, Alestorm, The Protomen, Last Chance to Reason, Dio Disciples, 3 Inches of Blood, and more! Plans to release a third album and continue The Ghorusalem Codex's story are in the works for 2013. Make sure to see Dethlehem in a city near you!

Current Members:

Brutalitus the BloodBeard - Battle Cry
Hildor - Axe
Bovice - Lead Axe
Overlord Brom - War Drums
Hank the Guy - Lead Bass 




There was also another band named Dethlehem formed in Plymouth (United Kingdom) in 2005. They have since disbanded.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dethlehem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.