There are multiple bands with the name DETONATOR:

1)The most famous, also known as Detonator e as Musas do Metal (Detonator and the metal muses), is a comedy metal band, an off-shot of the Brazilian band Massacration. After the successful first album Metal Folclore: The Zoeira Never Ends the band dropped the "Musas do Metal" (which was used to refer (to) the fact that the band is formed by women, being the only male Detonator (  Bruno Sutter who also sung in Massacration and the classic underground death metal band Morbid Death . Alumni from Detonator include Paulitchas Carregosa (ex- Panndora) and Fernanda Lira from the Thrash Metal phenomenon Nervosa . As of 2016, the band includes, apart from Sutter, Attilio Negri (Aclla) , Gabi Suyama , Iza Molinari and Juliana Farias.

2) Detonator is a melodic punk rock band from New York, NY that started in 2011.

3) Detonator are a four piece rock band formed in 2005 from Edinburgh, Scotland.
They have previously played under the names The Flaw and Trick Shot but discarded them and finally decided on Detonator.

They recently had a very successful recording session at The Chambers Recording Studio where they were able to get a few songs recorded professionally.
According to their website, they "like to write songs with catchy riffs and lyrics really just about anything we can get a few verses and a gd chorus out of."

The lineup consists of Andrew Taylor (Vocals/Rhythm Guitar), Mike Parr-Burman (Lead Guitar), Shaun MacLeod (Bass Guitar) and Richard Neill (Drums).

They claim to have been influenced by many great bands like Led Zeppelin, AC/DC, Guns n' Roses, The Beatles and Metallica just to name a few. 

Their official MySpace is at http://www.myspace.com/detonator01, where you can download some of their songs and see the band members in action.

4) Detonator was a Slovenian alternative rock band, created in 2001, the same year it was splitted and recorded the only album Detonator. It was consisted of Rottnest and Actoon and was corporating the elements of grunge, alter rock and post-punk, with the dark shade of lyrics.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Detonator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.