Several bands have used the name Detroit. Please note that the French band, featuring Bertrand Cantat of Noir Désir, was called Détroit, not Detroit. Please scrobble correctly.

1. Detroit (colloquially known as 'The Band Detroit', was an American rock band of the early 1970s, fronted by Mitch Ryder. Detroit was a spin-off of rock group The Detroit Wheels. This revised version of that band was established in 1970. The only original Wheel in the group was the drummer Johnny "Bee" Badanjek; other members were guitarists Steve Hunter and Brett Tuggle, organist Harry Phillips and bassists W.R. Cooke and John Sauter. A single album was released by this grouping, a 1971 self-titled LP issued on Paramount Records (US #176 in 1972). They had a hit with their version of the Lou Reed-penned song 'Rock & Roll' (originally recorded by The Velvet Underground, which Reed liked enough to ask Steve Hunter to join his backing band. Ryder quit the group because of voice problems in 1972. Detroit vocalist Rusty Day (formerly of the American Amboy Dukes and Cactus) took over his spot; without Ryder, the group floundered, and eventually broke up in 1974. There were some reunions in later years, for example in 2005, in a different line-up.

2. Detroit is a grindcore band from Edmonton, AB, Canada.  First release, 'Pusher', came out on Grindcore Karaoke. 

3.  Detroit was also a rock band from Minneapolis, MN who gained a cult following for their over the top stage show and catchy pop-rock songs.  Detroit put out three records, the self-titled "Detroit", the double album "A Brand New Testament" and "3".  Detroit also released the "Group Fight EP" and "Senior Suitcase EP".  Detroit plays infrequent reunion shows which are not to be missed.  After the end of Detroit, Jeff Ham went on to front Manplanet with the support of Detroit Guitarist HUTCH (aka Grant Eull). Jeff is now a member of E.L.nO. www.myspace.com/detroitfleshrock

4.  In the summer of 2008 while on a SMALL tour across Ontario members of Lion Ride and The Labour Of... decided to collaberate and create what they deemed to be the ultimate in a "pre-post punk rock" experiment. Featuring the crushing guitars of Curtis Faux, the head banging bass of Mark Rand, the human battering ram that is Mikey Hawdon on drums and the one man mosh pit Brenton Ellis on vocals DETROIT was formed and the stage was set (ablaze). Over the course of the next few months the experiment has mutated into an 11 song E.P. entitled "Let the Hammers Fly" available early 2009, a must have for any enthusiest of loud, fast, ballsout punk rock! Now ready to also be a must see, DETROIT is embraking on the third phase of their evergrowing experiment and will be booking shows wherever and whenever in 2009. DETROIT, This isn't meant to hurt...This is meant to KILL!!! 

5. Detroit was also a Japanese mid-1980s hardcore punk band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Detroit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.