Deus Ex Machina were formed in 1989 by Dimitris Spyropoulos and Dimitris Manthos in Athens, Greece. Spyropoulos and current drummer Yiannis Venardis were veterans of the local punk scene of the early 80's. The band eventually gained the overwhelming acceptance of the alternative crowds. In the years to come, this resulted in over 500 concerts with increasing success, establishing DXM as a predominantly kicking l ive band in spite of their limited discography.

In the course of their history DXM have suffered several setbacks including a number of serious car accidents and repeated personnel changes. So far, not only did they persevere, but on top of every adversity, they seem to come out on a limb with added stamina each time. Nowadays, DXM are considered as one of the major established acts of the Greek alternative scene.

Some of the highlights of their history include their appearance in landmark anti-Bosnian war concerts in Skopje, FYROM in 1994. In1995, at the height of the Bosnian war, they toured Serbia. Year 1996 finds them appearing in major festivals in the cause of peace in the Balkans. Year 2000 was marked, among other things, by their memorable appearances at the Biennale 2000 in Torino, Italy. During their long history DXM have opened with remarkable success for acclaimed international alternative acts such as "the Dubrovniks", "New Model Army", "Madball" and most recently Public Enemy".

Over the years DXM have performed in a large number of events promoting social consciousness, which is also reflected on the lyrics and the overall attitude of the band. More notably, in the last two years, they have appeared at several benefit concerts supporting the cause of the Zapatista native insurgents of the Chiapas region in Mexico. A respectable sum has been raised for the erection of a school for Zapatista children which was completed in the year 2004.

As active supporters of the peace movement, they participated in several protest activities against the war in IRAQ. Suffice to say that this last war came as if anticipated by the band's grimly prophetic Iraq 'n' Roll". The song was written back in 1991 inspired by the then recent Gulf War.

February 2003 marked a major step in the evolution of the band as their latest release "Signs" hit the market. With accomplished producer Hardy S. Party (Giant Sand, The Style Lab) in charge of the project, it sums up the final result of the last three years of hard work and experimentation. "Signs" constitutes a power pack of kick - in - the - butt energy with unexpected lyrical bursts, shifting the band to a phase of novel expectations and wider goals.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Deus+X+Machina">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.