Hailing from the greater Atlanta, GA area.  Deus Invictus was formed in early 2005 by friends David Hopper and Jeff Carter (ex The Chariot), Deus Invictus was a concept well thought up. Jeff Carter, having been frustrated that the spiritual music scene was devoid of anything “metal enough” answered a call from David wanting to form an extreme metal band. Merging what seemed to be polar opposites of the musical spectrum, a truly unique amalgamation of sound was born: with the sighted predominance of metal.

Upon speaking with mutual friends of theirs, Damien Chason/Jay Sexton, the band found its’ founding guitarists. Later adding bassists Matthew Lee and afterwards, Jeff Watt; the band toured the southeast gaining rave reviews by both fans and critics. Guitarist Damien Chason was replaced by Nicholas Shacklette, who more than filled in the role of 2nd guitarist.

By the end of 2006, the band parted ways with founding vocalist David Hopper and gained Joseph Calleiro on vocal duties. This brought forth more of the band’s raw potential and eventually they gained shows with Dragonforce, The Faceless, Arsis, All Shall Perish, With Blood Comes Cleansing, and many many others, still leaving those at each venue to much good response in regards to what some would say, "defined the band as limitless as their name suggests".

Eventually Calleiro decided to part ways with the band to pursue other projects, and guitarist Jay Sexton decided to take a break from band responsibilities.  This left Jeff Carter and Nich Shacklette in charge of keeping things alive.  They came to the decision to take the time to write.

By 2008, the band (only 2 members) decided to work on their first full length album. Carter and Shacklette began writing the whole album from the ground up for all of 2008. January of 2009 saw the first recording sessions for the new album coming to fruition, and around then, Jay Sexton and  new bassist Brad Wood came back to help.  And after recording over the span of a year at Charles Clifton's Redroom 104 studios in Marietta, GA, they decided to have Brian Elliot of Mana Studios fame mix/master their album. (Mana Recording Studios being the place where many other metal bands have sought sonic refuge, and being run by Erik Rutan of Hate Eternal/Morbid Angel fame)

At last, Deus Invictus' debut album, "Staged in Awaiting", has been unleashed worldwide as of August 2010.  The band is set to resume playing shows and touring in early 2011.  It is a clear sign that for Deus, things have just gotten started, and much more is to come.  As far as influences go, think of a cross between Atheist, Extol, Amporphis, Necrophagist, and Hate Eternal.  Now realize that none of these descriptions will fully nail the band's sound, and you're golden!

“Staged in Awaiting” (2010)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deus+Invictus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.