dEUS is an alternative/experimental rock band based and formed in Antwerp, Belgium. dEUS’s lineup has changed frequently, with only singer and guitarist Tom Barman and multi-instrumentalist Klaas Janzoons remaining from the original setting. The other current members are guitarist and vocalist Mauro Pawlowski, bassist Alan Gevaert and drummer Stephane Misseghers.

The Band, whose songs are primarily sung in English, performed their first concert on November 20th, 1989. The band displayed a bewildering array of influences, including Can, Captain Beefheart, Mingus-styled jazz, J.J. Cale, Leonard Cohen and Velvet Underground. Consequently, they incorporate a wide variety of styles into their work. dEUS have become one of the most successful (and influential) Belgian rock bands.

Many musicians became well-known after having been members of dEUS: Stef-Kamil Carlens (Moondog Jr., Zita Swoon), Rudy Trouvé (Kiss My Jazz), Danny Mommens (Vive La Fête), Craig Ward (The Love Substitutes), Jules de Borgher and Tim Vanhamel (Millionaire, solo). The current line-up (as from the album Pocket Revolution) includes Mauro Pawlowski (who became famous as solo artist and before with the band Evil Superstars) on guitars and vocals, Alan Gevaert on bass and Stephane Misseghers on drums. 
Erik Drew Feldman and David Bottrill have acted as producers. 

dEUS has made 7 studio albums up to now: 
Worst Case Scenario (1994), 
In A Bar, Under The Sea (1996),
The Ideal Crash (1999) 
Pocket Revolution (2005)
Vantage Point (April 21st 2008)
Keep You Close (September 20st 2011)
Following Sea (June 1st 2012)

Other releases include:
My Sister = My Clock (1995) and
No More Loud Music - The Singles (2001), a best-of compilation.

Before Pocket Revolution (2005), dEUS took a "sabbatical" for over 6 years. In these years, Barman was busy with his second passion: film. He wrote and directed Anyway The Wind Blows, a movie received well by critics in Belgium. The key-song of the soundtrack for the film was Summer's Here by Magnus, a project by Tom Barman together with CJ Bolland. 

More info can be found on their official website, www.deus.be <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/dEUS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.