Deuteronomium history in short:

1993 The band is founded by Manu Lehtinen and his brother Jarno Lehtinen. Very soon Miika Partala joined them and eventually Tapio Laakso completed the lineup as a fourth member. Deuteronomium played its very first show with this lineup and recorded their first demo "Paths of Righteousness".

1994 It was either in the late 1993 or early 1994 when Tapio deciced to leave the band and Kalle Paju replaced him. Year 1994 was very difficult for the band. They lost their rehearsal place and everyone was quite fed up with the situation so the band was buried for a while.

1995 Manu, Jarno and Miika decided to put the band back together and they recorded the second demo "Crosshope".

1996 "Crosshope" demo released. Deuteronomium played a few shows with new guitarist Jari Mantour and session drummer Johnny Pesonen. Jari left the band and the rest of the guys played a few shows. At the end of 1996 they recorded their first EP "Tribal Eagle".

1997 "Tribal Eagle" is released and the feedback was very positive. J-J Kontoniemi joins the band and at the same time Kalle Paju re-joins. Deuteronomium plays many shows and rehearses material for their debute album.

1998 "Street Corner Queen", Deuteronomium's first album, is released and people either loved it or hated it. Anyhow, it was a success and many more people became aware of the band. Deuteronomium played many shows and rehearsed new material.

1999 The release year of "To Die and Gain" -single and "Here to Stay" -album. And again the feedback was either positive or negative. Many didn't like the change in music style but it also gave the band new fans.

Deuteronomium played their first concerts in other countries. They spent one week in Holland and played two shows there, plus many more in Finland.

Cover version of One Bad Pig's "Red River" was recorded and a digipack re-release of Street Corner Queen (which included "Red River" and brand new artwork) was released.

The band had difficulties again. There were disagreements in certain things. It caused pressure, and eventually...

2000 ...Miika Partala decided to leave the band, which was a shock to everyone. The band was in a really difficult situation. It would have been nearly impossible to find anyone like him. Six months later J-J Kontoniemi decided to leave. Both of the guys were very kind and played all the remaining shows with the band. Great shows in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Holland and Germany.

Markus Vainionpää wins the air guitar world championships, the song was "Crosshope".

2001 The band is officially split up.

2006 In June, Deuteronomium plays one live show at OHM-Fest '06.

2007 Deuteronomium is back!
The band played a couple of shows here and there and released "Spelled Alive" DVD.

2008 Band signed a record deal with Bullroser Records and entered the studio at March to record a brand new studio album titled "From the Midst of the Battle". Band played as co-headliner at Elements of Rock festival in Switzerland with Seventh Avenue and Drottnar.

"From the Midst of the Battle" was released on August 13th as a 500x limited special edition CD+DVD box as well as a regular jewel case version. After a week of its release it reached #11 on the finnish official TOP 40 -chart.

Later that year Deuteronomium did a tour with Immortal Souls called Wintertour 2008, playing in 9 different countries.

2009 After "some" troubles with the factory that printed it, Deuteronomium's latest effort Retaliatory Strike was released in the format of a 12" vinyl in August. The EP was titled after the cover song (originally) recorded (by The Betrayal) exclusively for this release. The 3 other songs were b-sides from the FtMotB -sessions.

In November, yet another version of Street Corner Queen is released, this time as a 2-CD edition with  the long out-of-print second album Here To Stay plus the Tribal Eagle EP and a bunch of previously unreleased bonus tracks.

Official site: www.deuteronomium.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deuteronomium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.