Devastations was an Australian indie rock band from Melbourne that was active from 2002 to 2010. The band's solemn music earned comparisons to artists such as Nick Cave and Tindersticks. Originally called The Devastations (to mimic the style of bands such as The Temptations), "The" was later dropped. 

They were the first band signed to Brassland on the strength of an unsolicited demo. Their self-titled debut brought them invitations to open for artists like Black Heart Procession, the Dirty Three, Cat Power, and the Tindersticks -- the latter of whom they supported extensively in both Australia and Europe.

Formed in late 2002, Devastations choose to follow the likes of the Go-Betweens and the Dirty Three, and make their way in the larger world. They moved to Berlin in 2003, and played their first European show in September as part of 'Bada Bing', a concert series organized by Einsturzende Neubauten's Alexander Hacke. Devastations toured extensively in their new home, and recorded backing tracks for Berlin duo Cobra Killer's third album '76/77.' Vocalist/bassist Conrad Standish contributed three songs and guested on the Liars album. (Standish is childhood friends with that band's leader, Angus Andrew.)

Devastations came to the attention of Brassland in late 2004 when they crossed paths with labelmates, Clogs, first sharing a stage during a festival in Belgium, then meeting again a few days later in Paris. The Brassland braintrust had already expressed their admiration for Devastations music, and encouraged them to meet Padma Newsome, a fellow Australian who plays violin/viola in both Clogs and The National. The group decided to join the extended Brassland family.

Devastations was Conrad Standish (vocals/bass), Hugo Cran (drums), Tom Carlyon (guitars/vocals), and Kiernan Box (keyboards). 

On 19 September 2005, the band released their second studio album, Coal. The album was nominated for the 2005 Australian Music Prize. 

On 17 September 2007, the band released their third studio album, Yes, U. The album was also nominated for The Australian Music Prize. Yes, U, was also nominated for Best Album at the EG Awards of 2007. 

In 2008, Devastations recorded a cover of the Cure's 1981 song "All Cats Are Grey" for Perfect as Cats: A Tribute to the Cure, a charity record released in October 2008 by Los Angeles indie label Manimal Vinyl. 

In 2009, Devastations collaborated with New York City-based band Blonde Redhead to record "When the Road Runs Out" for the AIDS benefit album Dark Was the Night produced by the Red Hot Organization. 

By 2010, Devastations had disbanded, although Carlyon and Standish later reunited as an electronic music duo, Standish/Carlyon, releasing the album Deleted Scenes in 2013. 

Devastations homepage: http://www.devastations.net/
Brassland homepage: http://brassland.org <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devastations">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.