Devanic is a band from Vienna, Austria and was formed in May 2004 by Nikolaus Vuckovic and Andreas Danzer, with the goal playing ambitious, catchy, multifarious and blasting Melodic Death Metal. Niki was searching for some people to realise his compositions, especially for someone to do the vocals – with Andy the right man was found. The songwriting of Niki and the lyrics and vocal-arrangement of Andy seemed to be the perfect combination.
While recording and arranging more songs Niki and Andy were searching musicians to establish a band, that also would be able to perform live. Within only a month Devanic with Christian (Guitar), Peter (Bass) and Mike (Drums) - all experienced musicians and motivated to make music on a professional level - was complete.
The music of  Devanic is mainly influenced by the sound of traditional "gothenburg-bands" like In Flames, Soilwork, At the Gates, Dark Tranquillity and also by newer artists of this genre like Arch Enemy, Kalmah, Nightrage, The Haunted, Dissection (Reinkaos), ...  but also different, more modern influences can be found in the music of Devanic. 
There isn't really an official day of foundation, but it was in May 2004 or something, when Devanic was the first time in the rehearsal room. Everything was going very fast. The band was within a very short time capable of playing the songs, Niki and Andy had arranged so far. It was amazing, how perfectly things were going. Only a few months later, in September (which is possibly record-breaking) Devanic released the promo 2004 Mask Installed, which included 8 tracks and was only meant for promotion and not for the public. The resonance was very positive and the popularity of Devanic raised enormous - radios worldwide played songs of Mask Installed. Some magazines made Mask Installed to the promo of the month and some made Devanic to the band, newcomer or whatever of the month. A newcomer - still underground - was born.
As more and more people asked how they can get a copy of Mask Installed the 5 guys from Devanic decided to produce a kind of "continuation" of the promo, that should include the 8 tracks (newly recorded) but also new songs.
While playing concerts with international acts like Dismember, Satanic Slaughter, Ensiferium, Morbid Angel, Sodom and many more, Devanic started working on new material for the debut-album.
Finally April 2006 the release of Mask Industries was done. All together 16 tracks with a playtime of about an hour - including the 8 songs from the Promo 2004 Mask Installed, newly recorded.
Multifarious, hard and aggressive Melodic Death Metal from Austria is the result - just tune in and listen to Mask Industries.
In August 2007 Christian left the Devanic and for him Stefan Potesil took place in the band. Peter changed from bass to guitar and Stefan took over the bass. Another big change happened in October 2008: Niki, the componist, producer and co-founder of Devanic has left the band or the band decided to go on without him - however you like to see it. What will happen the next weeks and months is unclear, clear is that Devanic is alive and still on the road...
With Erik Bay the Line-up is complete again and Devanic is allready working on new material and on getting asap on stage again! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devanic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.