DEVAR

Devar is a Norwegian metal band influenced by extreme / black / avantgarde metal
and 70's prog-rock. Highly unconventional in how they write and approach
their music and their unique sound. Their lyrical concepts revolve around
the decline of man, thoroughly examining the paths of fear, insanity, darkness and death.

Originally formed by mainman Devar in 2002 as a solo project, it quicky became apparent that he needed a full band to fulfill his vision. In 2003, Håkon Berntsen and ottoegil joined on guitar and bass. With Sjalg Otto Unnison (Blood Command, Leadsledge, Hellish Outcast) on drums,
the band soon started to evolve - playing local gigs, writing material and recording demos.

During the first few years the line-up changed regularly, until mainstays
obdsaija (66crusher, drums), and aadland (guitars) joined in 2006.

In 2009 the band released their debut album Alternate Endings on the Italian label Code66.
The album was well recieved by the music press, applauded for both being daringly unconventional & original, and having interesting, well crafted songs. It was also further established that Devar was kind of a love/hate band, due to their eccentric style. 
Labeled by the label and some music outlets as being 50's black metal, Devar themselves and others would dissagree. Devar themselves prefer to distance themselves from labeling their own music.

After a European tour with legendary Master in 2010, the band dissapeared - and it would seem like the end.
Citing personal issues and the ever revolving line-up changes, the band kept silent for over half a decade. They quickly regrouped, though – and started work on new songs in silence.

Early 2017, set for a return, Devar relased a teaser single for the fall release of their 2nd album «Mausoleum». They played a short gig at the release party for the Norsk Urskog metal sampler,
to show that they've returned from hibernation.

«MAUSOLEUM»

«Mausoleum» was recorded by Bjørnar E. Nilsen (Vulture Industries, Taake, Helheim) at Conclave & Earshot Studios, by Devar at Alternate End studios, and by ottoegil at Internasjonalt Farvann.
Mixed and mastered by Herbrand Larsen (Enslaved) at Conclave & Earshot Studios.

Release date: September 29th 2017
to be released as Digipak CD w/16 page booklet
and double LP w/ gatefold cover, printed inner sleeves & download code.

Tracklist
Mausoleum
House of Bones
Dead End Moon
Shadow Straggler
Cold black Rain
Narcissa Oriane
Ashes
Dead Wounds


The lyrics on «Mausoleum» are conceptionalized around standing on the edge of the end, as a lifetime flashes through a fractured & declining mind.
Music-wise, the album shows a more mature and reflected band than on «Alternate Endings» - with longer, but more focused songs, and more progressive elements.

Current lineup:
Devar – Vocals
Obdsaija – Drums & percussion
Aadland – Guitars
Ottoegil – Bass & keys <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/devar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.