Devenir (Argentina)
Devenir es un trío que se formó en el año 2000 luego de que su cantante y líder Mario Ian dejara al grupo Rata Blanca y se uniera al baterista Naydon y el ex - Mate Cosido: el guitarrista Montesi.
.
Mario Ian es un cantante y compositor con un largo camino recorrido dentro del heavy nacional Argentino, formó parte de míticas bandas del genero entre ellas: Hellion, Alakran y Rata Blanca. Luego de estas experiencias grupales, formó su propio grupo al que llamó Devenir cuyo primer registro fue un EP, como una especie de adelanto de lo que seria su primer larga duración al que llamó Red hipnótica y que fuese editado en el 2003 con la incorporación de Cosenza en guitarra en lugar de Montesi. El disco refleja un sonido duro, áspero, trabajado con claras influencias del rock de los setenta, y 90's. Así mismo intercambia momentos de calma con otros de furia en que la voz de Ian toma el protagonismo.
.
Integrantes:
Mario Ian: voces y guitarras
Pablo Naydon: batería y voces
Yani Glinatsis: bajo
Fernando Cosenza: guitarra
.
Discografía:
Devenir (ep). 2000
Red Hipnótica. 2003

Devenir(???)
Devenir broke up in Feb. of 2003. Since then most of us joined different bands in search of something new. Eddie (Lead Vocals) has gone solo and performs in the Long beach area and since then we have lost touch with him. Steve ( Guitar stage right ) has lost touch with us and we have no idea what he is up to in life. Pablo plays bass for a band called "RESA" (www.myspace.com/resamusic) and is doing well for himself. Josh ( Drums ) Also plays drums in "RESA" and he too is doing well. As for me Luis ( Guitar Stage Left ), took a long needed break from the music scene for the last four and a half years. But in 2007 decided to give music another chance and I've started a new musical project that also involves Josh and is yet to be named. I'll release all the info once we are ready and have a few songs recorded.

Devenir broke up while recording our second release. We wrote a bunch of songs but rushed into the studio with out working out all of the kinks and ran out of money in the process. We let Eddie go soon after and searched for a new singer for about five months before we finally gave up the dream.

From us to you, to all who came to the shows and supported our music...

Thank You. 

(www.myspace.com/devenir) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devenir">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.