Devious was founded in 2000 by Guido de Jongh (guitar) and Frank Schilperoort (drums). With a predilection for thrash metal, the band immediately started building up a live reputation in The Netherlands. With the release of their first full length album “Acts of Rage”, by Spitzenburg Records in 2003, Devious gained a definitive place within the Dutch metal scene.

In the following years, Devious shared stages with bands like Cannibal Corpse, Suffocation, Vader, Crowbar and The Dillinger Escape Plan. In 2006 the band toured Europe with Brasilian death machine Krisiun.

With the release of “Domain” (Deity Down Records, 2007), Devious proved to have become a top class act in the extreme metal genre. Besides 12 grooving death metal tracks, the album features a professionally shot video of the song “Room 302” (directed by Robin van
Belzen).

Devious’ third full length album “Vision” was released on August 31, 2009. The album was mixed by producer Jochem Jacobs (Textures / Split Second Sound Studio) and produced by founding member and main song writer Guido de Jongh. The release was followed by an European tour with Entombed and Merauder.

On Devious' long awaited most recent release “Wolfhagen” new singer Dennis Lusseveld makes his first appearance, as well as the brutal bass thunders of Alwin Zuur (Asphyx). The result is a heavy portion of grooving and melodic 2012 metal, supplemented with some classical influences. The limited edition, a hand numbered metal case, features 5 new tracks and 2 previously unreleased bonus tracks. 

Releases:
Devious (2002) – demo / self published
Acts of Rage (2003) – Spitzenburg/Zomba/BMG
Domain (2007) – Deity Down Records
Vision (2009) – Deity Down Records
Wolfhagen (2012)

Line-up:
Dennis Lusseveld – vocals
Wouter Huitema – guitar
Guido de Jongh – guitar
Frank Schilperoort – drums

“Wolfhagen” recording line-up also features:
Alwin Zuur – bass
Carsten Altena – synths & samplers <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devious">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.