In late 2005 four heavy drinkers, childhood friends and headbangers like no other found themselves in a musical crisis. Having played together for ten years in the black metal band Tunrida, the split-up of the band in question left the guys unemployed when it comes to music. It seemed obvious that a new band has to be established. And since the main songwriters of Tunrida were not in the infamous quartet that were left, the boys decided it was time to start from scratch when it comes to music style and image. Early death metal bands have always had a special place in their black hearts, so the decision was easy to make and the guys unanimously chose to start making simple but quality death metal with a rock n’ roll attitude. Devil’s Advocates was born! 

Guitarist Pera took the leading role in the band and started to compose striking metal tracks with effective lyrics. The band shared a common hatred against all forms of religion and a serious interest in a satanic lifestyle, so the basis for the message of Devil’s Advocates was clear: To promote all kinds of blasphemy and to indulge in all known carnal pleasures. To put it simply, they liked to drink, smoke, fuck, overeat, spit on religious people and to do everything that’s simply fun. But there was still one problem: No vocalist! But the problem was solved easily, a close friend of the band, Yuppi, who already was the vocalist of the dark metal band Darcasis, was asked to join the posse. He accepted gladly, and through time became an irreplaceable member of the group.

The next couple of years went by and great songs were created together with the whole band from Pera’s crude compositions, despite (or because) of excessive alcohol abuse by some members of the band. In fact, Pera pulled inspiration to his lyrics from his ever-growing alcoholism, dealing with his problems through the art of making music. During this time the band kept very little noise about themselves, preparing silently to make an album that would shake, rattle and roll the metal scene. The time to start making their debut album was right in autumn 2008, and they started to work with Mikko Suuronen of Zetaworks The record sessions were over in January 2009 and mixing took place in February. The album entitled ‘Merchant of Death’ was mastered in late April of 2009 at Chartmakers in Helsinki by Svante Forsbäck. 

After a year of promotion, hassle with record companies, a couple of gigs, Pera's rehab and other shit that the band had to deal with, the guys were fed up with the waiting and decided to release the album themselves. 
But finally, the album is out! 

Official release date of Merchant of Death: 24.4.2010.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devil%27s+Advocates">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.