Established in Belfast in Autumn 2002, when founding member Marty Robinson invited Paul Duffy and Dave McCallum to jam on a few tracks he'd been working on .. after just one practice, the guys knew they were onto something special and the trio locked themselves in a practice room and perfected six songs. Three songs from these demo recordings were then released -"Caution: Will Cause Neck Injury" to worldwide critical acclaim.

To bring the Devilmakesthree experience to a live audience the band were aided initially by Honey for Christ guitarist Andy Clarke until a full time member was found in the man-mountain that is Gavin Coulter. Now with a steady live line up and new material continuously being written, the band focused on an active future.

With a second demo CD released - "Voice of the Undergound", the bands writing showed a growth and maturity uncommon to bands so early in their career. Again this was received to great acclaim throughout the local scene and beyond, and coupled with the bands pro-active nature of gigs, promotion and merchandising, the band were now known throughout the land. As Devilmakesthree nailed their live show, they continued to demo new tracks, some of which were available on download from their website. The quality of these tracks have lead to the decision to record and release their first EP independently. Recording will begin in early August 2004 for the EP which is to be titled "Vacuum Tube Rapture"

March 2005 Marty Robinson left the band to pursue other interests. While leaving a void in the band, it has not stopped the devilmakesthree machine turning. In the interim Steve Moore Of Condemned fame stepped up to the plate learned a bunch of songs and hit the gigging circuit with the remaining three members with Dave now on vocals and Gav on Backing vocals. Fortunately this turned to be positive move and the response from the metal loving public has been overwhelming. Coming to the tail end of 2005 the guys have retired to their respective caves to work on new music and intend to come back with a new guitarist and more brutal material to torture people in 2006. You have been warned.2008 has rolled round and another shift in personnel, the band parted company with Steve Hobson early 08 and now have Jay Rogers ex Altus Astrum and current Vomitous drummer on board. The band are now ready to record very soon and a release should be expected over the coming months with plenty of live dates to accompany the release.

Taken from www.myspace.com/devilmakesthree <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devilmakesthree">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.