There is more than one artist with this name:

1) A dark and heavy prog band from Italy & Slovenia whose music is inspired by old silent horror movies. Devil Doll’s music has been described as “an elaborate and bombastic collision of styles” and “a perverse, yet brilliant soundscape of some forbidden netherworld”. Bands like Jacula can be pointed as an influence to this (at least) very different band. Mario Panciera, the brains behind Devil Doll, was anonymously known as Mr Doctor for 20 years following the project's inception. His name was made public with the release of his  2007 book, "45 Revolutions (A definitive discography of UK punk, mod, powerpop, new wave, NWOBHM, and indie singles 1976–1979, Volume I)."

Devil Doll’s albums are a journey into the unknown theatres of the unexplored soul and mind, they are like a sick cabaret of unsuspecting and, at times, soul-possessing opera. “The Girl Who Was… Death” is an interesting modern symphonic sound with a pervading air of menace. “Eliogabalus” is like a prog-metal symphony, a grandiose, overarching structure that works like a suite. I certainly didn’t take a trip to heaven when I for the first time became familiar with Devil Doll’s many masterpieces. The music is not for everybody, but recommended to those who like their singers dominant. Recommended to fans of Silent horror movies.

www.devildoll.nl

---

2) Devil Doll is the stage name (and band name) of Colleen Duffy, an American singer. Colleen started using the name Devil Doll in the late 80's, inspired by the Roy Orbison song, and her first recording was released in 1995.

Colleen Duffy has a voice that has been described as Jessica Rabbit meets Joan Jett. She blends jazz, rockabilly and swing on a pop punk palate and affects a classic pin-up look.

You are instantly transported into a timeless, silk-lined speakeasy. You close your eyes and your ears begin to weave a sonic tale upon the folds of your brain. It’s a tale of seduction and strength…agony and ecstasy. Rose petals that cut like razor blades. As the first notes slide into your ear, you are under the spell that is Devil Doll. Your mind starts to intertwine around her aural strip tease. As the frost off of your martini fades, it becomes clear: spice that hybrids musical genres, and it’s all stirred up by a woman that creates trends, not follows them. The essence as heard through hotel walls on hot, humid summer’s nights.

As Devil Doll slides into “St. Christopher”, she beckons you to follow. She’s talking to you… yeah you… With a vice-like grip from a satin cocktail glove, she grabs you by the reproductives. She appears vulnerable, yet obviously never a victim. With a Latin flavor served over brutal honesty, Devil doll tears into “You are the best thing, and the worst thing”. Your heart pounds deep within your chest to the rock solid of “heart sized crush”. As she continues to weave her tale so intimately, you can feel the warmth of her sultry tones penetrating the base of your skull. Devil doll is pure sex with a sorrow chaser. She eases into the haunting lament that is “Walk with me”. Track after track after track, like the angelic opera of a Tommy Gun. With her last ounce of energy, Devil Doll peels away her final layer of harmonic lingerie on “If I died in your arms”…. You don’t know what has happened. . You look up to see only the barrel as it retreats, leaving the milky smoke rings that spell Devil Doll. 

www.devil-doll.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devil+Doll">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.