George Shchelbanin - vocals, lead & rhythm guitars
Eugene Sibirskiy - lead & rhythm guitars
Olga Orekhova - keyboards
Nikita Kharitonov - bass
Konstantin Kalkatinov - drums

Deviant Syndrome is original band from Moscow, Russia. Band’s musical direction is a prominent mix of different genres, giving the band modern and unusual sound that is considered to have epic, melodic and technical death metal influences in it. Every song is a remarkable example of how high-technique melodic death in traditions of Children of Bodom and Kalmah meets speed thrash riffs of Slayer and symphonic black of Dimmu Borgir, as long as epic tunes lessens brutal tension of death.

The band started in late 2005 and since that time have received critical acclaims for their first demo-tape “Pictures of Declared Extinction”. The album was warmly met by critics in Dark City (headliner magazine for extreme metal) in 2008 and Rock Oracle in 2010, along with known musical portal Headbanger that regarded the band as the Best newcomer of 2009.

List of band’s achievements leaves musicians to be proud of themselves:
- opening act before Finnish bands Kalmah, Eternal Tears of Sorrow and Before the Dawn as well as Norwegian Pantheon I
- participation in Global East Open Air 2010, one of the biggest festivals held in Kiev, Ukraine, where the band shared the stage with historically acclaimed bands from all over the world
- participation in Hub & Heuy festival in Roermond and Heidens Geweld festival in Eindhoven (both Netherlands) in January and April, 2011.

Band’s discography consist of self-released demo “Pictures of Declared Extinction” in 2007 and full-length debut album “Inflicted Deviations” released in 28 January 2011 by Mazzar Records in Russia, Ukraine and Belarus and to be released 24 June 2011 in Germany, Benelux, Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, France and Japan by MDD Records.

Currently the band is working on their second album and plans recording sessions in the second half of 2011.

E-Mail:
nammtharicon@devsyn.ru

Homepage:
http://www.deviant-syndrome.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deviant+Syndrome">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.