There are multiple artists called Deviate:

1)  In the dark, desecrated underworld where thrash meets hardcore, lives Deviate. Equally appealing to hardcore kids and metal/thrash consumers, DV8 will appeal to fans of Soulfly, Pantera, Sick Of It All, Madball, Earth Crisis, H2O, ...
Deviate... in the summer of 1991 Deviate was founded from the ashes of Belgian thrash band Sixty Nine and hardcore band Mental Disturbance.
Deviate recorded their debut mini-CD called "Small Traces Of Life" in November and December 1992. This CD was released in March 1993, recorded at the Ace Studio's in Aartselaar, Belgium and is produced and engineered by Frank Van Bogaert.
After a Dutch Tour with Fear Factory, in May and June, and a very succesfull European Tour with Excel in September and October 1993, they released their second album in Januari 1994. This second album, "Crisis Of Confidence", contains 53 minutes of non-stop raging hardcore-crossover music. "Crisis Of Confidence" was recorded in November at the Hautregard Studio's in Herve, Belgium, mixed in December 1993 at the Bullet Sound Studio's in Hilversum, Holland, and was produced by André Gielen.
During a year of gigs with amongst others Leeway, Only Living Witness, B-Thong, Biohazard, Motorhead and their buddy's Dog Eat Dog, Deviate prepared their new album.
So I Scream Records was proud to present the second full-lenght Deviate album "Wreck Style", in May 1995, wich broke them into a level of popularity enjoyed by only a couple of European Hardcore bands.
Deviate had created a 12-song explosion of sound with songs like "Spread a Threat", "Crack-Down" and "Fearless State".
"Wreck Style" was recorded, once again in the Hautregard Studio's in Herve, in March 1995 and is produced by André Gielen and Deviate for I Scream Records.
After popular demand Deviate recorded a new EP in December 1995 called "Cold Prejudice", this limited edition, only for the Belgian marked, was sold out after 2 weeks.
In August 1996 Deviate was joined by a second guitar player and in September 1996 they were on the first European Vans Warped Tour.
In December 1996 Deviate started recording their third full length album, "Thorn Of The Living". Produced and mixed by Jamie Locke (Cro-Mags, Leeway, Madball, VOD and Obituary). "Thorn Of The Living" contains amazing songs like "Last Judgement" (featuring Freddie Cricien from Madball), "Surge To Victory" and the title track and first single "Thorn Of The Living".
Right after the European release in March 1997 Deviate toured Europe with Integrity to promote "Thorn Of The Living" and in the summer of 1997 they played the important European festivals like Dynamo Open Air, Graspop and the Dour Festival.
In December 1997 they joined the MAD X-Mas tour with Backfire! across Europe and during this time the Deviate albums were released in Japan where they went on tour in Sepetember 1999 and recorded the live album One By One.
In March 1999 they recorded there new album State of Grace which was released on June 7th 1999. Deviate played some of the finest festival in the Benelux that summer before their Belgian club tour in September and their second Japanese tour in January 2000. Later that year "State Of Grace" was released in the USA through Too Damn Hype while the sales in Japan are getting bigger every week.
While preparing their new record, due for release in February 2002, Deviate played the Beast Feast Festival in the Yokohama Arena in Japan, on the 24th of August 2001, together with bands like Slayer, Pantera, Sepultura and 40.000 kids.
In 2002 Deviate celebrated their 10th anniversary with a new record and shows all around the globe.
On the 5th of December 2003 Deviate played the last show in the Amcienne Belgique in Brussels, Belgium.

2)  Deviate are a South African death metal/hardcore band.

3)  Deviate are an Inverness, Scotland based metal band.

4)  Deviate were a South Bay, California based punk band.

5) A French Prog/Experimental Rock band formed in Nice in 2018. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deviate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.