1) A Swedish stoner act that can be found at http://www.deville.nu.
2) An electronic/industrial project released one track with Christian Olde Wolbers (Fear Factory) on Mischief Invasion Soundtrack.
3) A crunk/dirty south-styled rapper.
4) A Canadian punk band described here:

The story dates back to the high school years of Rich (vocals), and brothers Rob (drums) and Sean (guitar). The three friends spent all their spare time playing their favorite metal cover songs together in their parent’s basements. Inevitably though, that would only last for a short time. With the high point of the band being a stellar three-song performance at an annual school dance, the three musicians called it quits and spent the next few years pursuing other interests as music was put to the side. Then in 1998 Rich introduced Dave to Rob and Sean. Rich and Dave had already co-written some material together and it inspired both Rob and Sean, and rejuvenated everyone’s interest in playing music again. They all joined forces and engaged in the process of devising their own signature style and sound as a group.  As time went on, the foursome had created a few of their own songs and started to progress very rapidly, but they still needed a bass player. Rich filled in for a while, but he constantly expressed his true desire to concentrate his energy on his lyrics and vocals.

In the summer of 1999, Deville was officially formed and they started to play shows around their hometown. After playing a few shows and recording a couple demos, the band started to earn some recognition around their local scene. They caught the eye of a local independent record label and soon after signed a one-record deal. In July of 2000 Deville headed west to Vancouver, Canada and recorded their first full-length album, “Pleasure to Burn”, with renowned producer / engineer, Blair Calibaba. As the CD was completed, they got themselves a van and were introduced to the world of touring. On the road is where they’ve spent the majority of their time since. They have done 6 major tours, including one supporting punk-rock legends, Good Riddance. Plans for heavy touring to support “A Step from Forever” are in the works as well. During the course of their tours Deville has earned the respect of many, including everyone at their American label, Jumpstart Records. (www.jumpstartrecords.com ). Jumpstart is now licensing “Pleasure to Burn” in the U.S.

           February of 2003 marks the release of the bands sophomore effort entitled “A Step from Forever”. The album contains ten catchy yet technical tunes, which has proven to be the some of the bands best work. The album is recorded and released entirely independently with no label support at all.

           Though fairly new to the music scene, Deville has proven they can hold their own with the more established bands. Also, aside from a great amount of support from their fans, friends, and families, Deville has done everything on their own and still managed to stay focused and keep their creative edge.

More: http://www.devillepunk.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deville">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.