Devin Tracy, a very talented soul/nujazz and popular music singer/songwriter and military brat was born in Miami, Florida. His father retired from the Air Force in 1996, and then moved to Jacksonville, Florida. Devin’s talent was discovered while in Jacksonville at the tender age of six. As a teenager Devin developed a special appreciation for jazz music.

While most youngsters his age had a musical appetite for hip hop and other mainstream genres, he was influenced by artists like John Coltrane, Miles Davis, Norman Brown, Herbie Hancock, Phyllis Hyman, Sarah Vaughn, Ella Fitzgerald etc.

While in middle school he performed with a live band at talent shows, churches and other local competitions. During his High School years, Devin Tracy was recognized as “a small guy with a big voice”.

He attended Bethune Cookman University majoring in music technology. He then met producer William (Chase) Neckles in Music Tech class, who is a counterpart of Roderick Whyte and production team called “The Radicals”.

The Radicals introduced Devin Tracy’s music to Lamar Coaston who in turn introduced Devin to multi platinum producer Herb Middleton.

Together the two are creating a synergy around the young new rising star, now known as “Mr. Devin Tracy”. The “Mr.” in Devin’s stage name prophetically signifies the level of respect that   “Mr. Devin Tracy” will be eventually receiving from his peers. This young man is a musical mission and he’s about his business. His knowledge of legendary jazz greats surpasses those in his age group.

“Mr. Devin Tracy” is destined to blow the minds of the music industry and music lovers all over the world. He’s a breath of fresh air that over time will eventually expand into one of the more popular artists of our time. With his unique look, sound and live performance, he’s guaranteed to make a difference in the music world. Ladies and Gentleman…”Mr. Devin Tracy” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devin+Tracy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.