There are several bands using this name:

1) Device was an industrial metal band started by David Draiman, frontman of the hard rock group Disturbed. Draiman was approached by Geno Lenardo, former guitarist of Filter, and together they started to work on new material. The two started work on a debut album in June 2012. The result of those sessions, "Device", is scheduled for release on April 9, 2013. The first single "Vilify" was released to radio ahead of the album on February 19, 2013.

In a 2015 interview, Draiman stated that he has no intention on making another Device album.

2) Device was the brainchild of 80s songwriter wunderkind Holly Knight. Knight was a prolific songwriter in the United States’ 80s, penning hits for Pat Benatar (Love is a Battlefield and Invincible), Animotion (Obsession and I Engineer), Tina Turner (The Best and Better Be Good To Me) and Aerosmith (Rag Doll).

Holly Knight (vocals, keyboards and bass) founded the band in 1986 with Paul Engemann (lead vocals) and Gene Black (guitar). They released their one and only album 22B3 in the spring of 1986. It produced a Top 40 single in the U.S. with Hanging On a Heart Attack, which peaked at #35. The band's second single Who Says peaked at #79. Both of these songs were promoted by music videos which garnered MTV rotation and both were released as 12" singles with remix and dub versions which received club play. A third and final single When Love is Good was released while the album peaked at #73 on the Billboard Top 200 Albums chart. Mike Chapman produced the album.

After their split in 1987 Knight went on with her solo project, whilst successfully writing songs for celebrated artists, while Engemann joined Animotion as their new male lead vocalist.

3) Device is also a latvian band formed in year 1998 in Liepāja. Band members: Marats Ogļezņevs (Marathons) and Ruslans Kuksinovičs (Rus-L).  Device first single is called " Find A Point".  They  are playing Hip-Hop and R'n'B.
Discography:
2002.  - "Better Days/Labākas Dienas"
2003. - 18 Touchez
2006. - 2 Hot 4 LV

4) An italian post-hardcore band formed in 2010.

One year ago,2010 November 8th,our guitarist Dario with our ex bass guitarist Alessio,entered for the first time on Skie Studio with Becko and Daniele,to do something new,something different than their old bands (Flash Before My Eyes,Tidal Wave ecc.).
So,riff after riff,session after session,member after member,were born Device…currently a five piece,with Emanuele Agazzi on vocals,Dario Morgia on guitar/vocals,Marco Cisterna on bass/spoken word,Emanuele Piepoli on guitar,and finally,we can announce Alessio Cappelletto on our drums!
One year of work,of difficulties,of hours spent in our box.The result of this year is now in our hands,and it’s called THE BIRTH! 9 killer songs to express clearly what we are…soon in your hands,in your ears,everywhere you want…you can download The Birth for free going to their fb profile, www.facebook.com/devicerocks !
We have some physical copies of it,if you want to order one of them write us to devicerocks@gmail.com !

5) A heavy metal band from Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They are currently a three piece.
Lloyd Agar - Guitar
Marc LeBlanc - Bass / Vocals
Kyle Harcott - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Device">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.