There is more than one artist with this name:

1) electro-rock
2) death metal

1)DEVIANT from Denver, CO USA. The meshing of rock guitar riffs, electronic melodies, and driving industrial drums were the initial factors behind the building of the electro-rock trio, Deviant.

Formed in 2002 by vocalist/lyricist London, multi-talented musicians D' MacKinnon and Marcus "Daisho" Wilkerson, Deviant immediately garnered a local following in Denver after their first live performances and album release. Deviant successfully merged the modern sounds of electronic music with accessable songwriting and emotional lyrical content. Their first release, Absenta, received critical praise from the national underground scene, college radio, and club DJs. Deviant won three awards at the 2003 Colorado Underground Music Awards including "Best New Band". Tracks off have Absenta have also been featured in films such as Throttle and on several compilation albums. In 2006 Deviant was nominated for the Westword Music Showcase.

Deviant spent most of 2003 performing shows to support the release of Absenta. In 2004 the members focused their efforts on side projects, remixing and production work.

Deviant returned to the recording studio in early 2005 to write a new material. In 2006 the Westword nominated Deviant for their annual awards in the "Gothic/Industrial" category.

3) DEVIANT was formed in early 2002 by Johan, EB and Magnus in Uppsala, Sweden. The band's goal musical-wise from the very start was to play furious, hateful death metal with elements from old school swedish death, "new school" death metal and grindcore. The local madman Alx joined the band to do the vokills and a bassplayer joined shortly before being 'lifted from duties'. Some live shows were executed before the debut demo was recorded in August of 2003.

The debut demo, simply entitled Deviant was unleashed in November 2003 and led to a deal with the Italian label The Spew Records in early 2004. During 2004, the band spent the first half of the year playing shows and planning the debut album. Erik joined on bass in January. The second half of the year was spent writing material for what was to become Larvaeon. Erik left the band in October. The debut album, "Larvaeon", was recorded during December and early January '04/'05 in EAR Studios (where also the demo was recorded). Fredrik filled in on the bass spot after the recording and was publicly announced in March of '05. The band continued spreading their hate in 2005 by doing various live shows and recording a MCD called "Apathyphus" with three new songs and a cover of Nasum's "Inhale/Exhale".

Alx - Vox
Johan - Lead Guitars
Magnus - Guitars
Fredrik - Bass
EB - Drums


4) Deviant is a Black Metal band from France formed in 1995.


5) Deviant is a progressive house DJ, producer, and remixer. He is also the owner of Toes in the Sand Recordings and HeadRush Music. He hosts a show on Proton Radio, and has opened and closed for many of the world's top DJs.


6) Deviant was a UK (North Walsham, Norfolk) Thrash Metal band formed in 1987 and assumed to have split up in the early 90s. Released a series of demos '87 - '90, and the In Pursuit of Happiness EP in 1991, all of which were self-released. 

7) Straight Edge hardcore band from Kiev, Ukraine.

8) Death Metal band from Bucharest, Romania.
Last known line-up
Ţtefan "Fane" Panea - Guitar, Vocals (Avskild, Insepultus (Rou), Irkalla, Schtephan)
Simion Florin - Bass (Dust (Rou))
Mihai "Tase" Tănăsescu - Drums (Avskild, Kratos (Rou), Sphera Noctis, Onderah)

9) Deviant are a downbeat American Hardcore band who recently released 'Scapegoat'. For Fan's Of: Sworn In, Villains, Barrier, Victims, Demolisher.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Deviant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.