Devotion refers to a number of groups. 

1.  Devotion is the latest musical project from Mark Palm, the creative mind behind Go It Alone.  This project finds Palm moving even further in the direction that was becoming evident in the final Go It Alone recordings; slow, dark, rock oriented hardcore.  In the fall of 2008 a ten song LP entitled Bastard Son Of Affluence Blues was recorded with Jesse Gander at The Hive Creative Labs in Burnaby British Columbia.  In addition to Palm’s vocals and guitar playing, drum and percussion performances were handled by Aaron O’Neil of ON.    
Drawing influence from hardcore, rock, and beyond, Bastard Son Of Affluence Blues is a forty minute monolith of heavy, yet tuneful, hard volume.

www.rivalryrecords.com
http://thesearemoderntimes.blogspot.com/    
  
2. Probably the most well known is an international singing group, consisting of Orange County, Southern California natives Richmond Andal, Eric Cruz, Rodney Hidalgo, Ian Pesigan, and John-Paul Riturban. The group has composed many original ballads such as "When I", "Girl Its You", and "My Prayer" and have grown in familiarity among the Asian-American community.

3. Devotion is a eurodance group from Norway
Fadin' Away was released in Germany under Edel Records. It was produced by The Universe Team (among them, the famous DJ Deep).

4. Devotion is (was) a praise and worship band from the Netherlands (Apeldoorn). They will do a farewell-concert in october 2008. They released one demo-CD called 'Promises' in 2005 containing 5 songs.
Bandmembers:
• John Edens: Gitaar & zang.
• Daniël van Dommele: Saxofoon & zang.
• Risja van Leeuwen: Toetsen.
• Johannes den Boer: Basgitaar.
• Wout Wubs: Drums & zang.

5. Devotion was a solo project by Glenn Norman of Melbourne band Volvox. He was later joined by Jim Mackay, and they became a live act. 

6.Devotion is a talented and dynamic duo from the UK, comprised of brother and sister, Daniel and Peace Oluwatobi.

Daniel and Peace began their singing career at the age of 9 years old when they would travel with their mother locally, performing at gospel conferences and various events. This sparked a passion and desire in their hearts for music.

In 2005, Daniel became the youth Praise and Worship Leader in his church, he then went on to be the bassist for the church Praise and Worship team.  One of Daniel's hobbies is video and audio production, which he loves to do in his spare time. He is the Co-founder and Senior Video Editor for Motive Driven Media.

Peace joined the youth Praise and Worship team in 2006.  She then went on to join the choir for the main Praise and Worship team.  Peace loves playing the piano and enjoys composing songs, she is currently studying and hopes to be an Events Manager in the future.

Their journey as Devotion started in 2008, where they began to write their own songs and travel all over the UK and internationally, performing to both big and small audiences.

In only a short space of time, Devotion have managed to share the gospel message through their music worldwide, including the UK, USA, Spain, Italy, Germany, Nigeria, Puerto Rico and Jamaica.

In January 2012, Devotion released their first official mixtape, R.E.D: the beginning, as a free download. It received rave reviews from all over the UK & USA.

Devotion have a lot in store, as they plan to release their EP in the fall of 2012. They are currently touring the UK, including Manchester, Stockport, Liverpool and Hackney, and has also recently performed at Starbucks in Woolwich and Canary Wharf. They plan to release their debut album in 2013.

Devotion would like to thank all those who support their music, and hope you will continue to follow them on their journey. 

7. Devotion is a  Neofolk /Experimental band from Wisconsin, United States.

Troy Schafer (of Kinit Her, Wreathes, Rain Drinkers, et al.) and frequent collaborator Dani Schafer began this recording project, a musical work to celebrate their relationship together, just after moving in with each other in 2009. Over the course of the following years they continued to develop and deepen the content of this musical project just as they have their personal relations. Now married and living far from where they began, they have finally turned in the result of their efforts, a beautiful record under the banner of the aptly christened Devotion. Those already familiar with the Schafers' musical forays into the hidden recesses of folkish trance and the moving cadence of ancient melodies, as is well documented in their work with Kinit Her and Wreathes, will be thrilled to hear them sink all the more deep within these sounds of their shared atmosphere and to stretch out within the music of their own hearth. Maidenly vocals soar, with glorious harmonies twisting over a stirring rush of stringed and brass instruments and propulsive percussion, with Dani's voice drawing familiar timbres from the memories of classic 1960's acid folk goddesses. Despite the haunting inherent in this and all music born of those with their roots deep in the soil of Wisconsin, Devotion is able to safely make their prayers within the sanctuary of the each others loving grace, and this feeling weaves itself with warm reassurance throughout the entire album.

First album In Love We Stand Alone out via Brave Mysteries.

https://www.facebook.com/devotionmusicwisconsin
http://bravemysteries.storenvy.com/products/1817874-myst011-devotion-in-love-we-stand-alone-cd <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devotion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.