There are 7 artists with this name:

1) Devoid are a British death metal band. Formed in 1987, the band went through various line-up changes before finally recording their "Human Plague" demo in 1990. The band then went on to release their "Blackened Empire" LP the following year on Skysaw Records. In 1992, shortly after the release of the LP, original vocalist Loui Fellows decided to leave and was replaced by Tony Glover. The band continued to gig and write songs (tasters of which can be found on this page) with a view to releasing a further record. Sometime during the latter part of 1992 apathy set in and the group decided to take a break. A break that they never recovered from. The following year Carlo Regadas joined local band Carcass.

2) Devoid is a 4 piece Extreme Thrash Metal band from Mumbai, India. Their current line up is as follows :
Arun - Vocals/Guitar
Keshav kumar - Lead Guitar
Frank pawar- Bass
Shubham - Drums

The band derives influences from metal greats like Slayer and Death. They have many songs like "Black Fortress", "Kali" and "Possessed" with many more in the pipeline. Their music has taken the Indian Rock/Metal scene by storm; their single, "black fortress" has appeared on the Absolute Indian Metal Compilation.

3) deVOID is a Swedish synth-rock band, which has been active from the year 2000, playing music inspired by Depeche Mode, Nine Inch Nails, The Cure, Sigur Rós and more. The website of deVOID is www.devoid.se.

4) devoid is an artist based in Russia, which released records in the 90s.

5) DevoidSwedish electronic/EBM/industrial band active in the early 90s.

6) Devoid is also a brutal death metal band from Bandung, Indonesia. Their myspace page: http://www.myspace.com/devoidbandung

7) Devoid is a sludge metal trio from San Francisco, California. They changed their name to Body Void in 2016.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devoid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.