1) Death Metal band from Canada
2) Death/ Thrash Metal band from Wakefield, England
3) Brutal death metal/deathgrind from Yogyakarta, Indonesia formed in 1998

1)  Originally formed as a three piece in 2002, Devoured began to impress the GTA combining brutal death metal, shitcore noise, hardcore punk, and an in your face live show which pushes the boundries of human morality further with each intense live performance. In the summer of 2003 with the addition of a bassist , Devoured began recording multiple demos and was added to various compelations including the as of yet released Crush Your Canadian Idols which includes the talent of 50 bands from across Canada. After opening for acts such as Cryptopsy, Fuck the Facts, Mesrine, The Legendary Klopeks, and Deamon, Devoured continue to flaunt their disgusting sense of humour towards the metal underground. Devoured will be releasing their first full length CD, The American Dream, in early 2006, and will be setting out to play numerous supporting shows across Canada. 

Devoured Discography

- Fucktards on Ice EP (2003)

- Live From the Four Pape (2004) 4-way split w/ Devoured, F.A.T.O., Vomigod, and Lapidate

- Fucktards on Ice (full-length re-issue) (Aug 2006)

FOR BAND INFORMATION, CONTACT GOREGRINDER OR DEVOURED AT THEIR MYSPACE PAGE:  DEVOURED

This band and self named label was produced by  Goregrinder to exploit the well developed and heavy blasts produced in Durham County, Ontario, CANADA.


2)  "Get the gore out. Drop out of school. Don't get a job. Watch horror films. Do it old school. Do not feed after midnight. Do death like Devoured, who like it gnarly, raw, and with shades of Britain's most overlooked but finest DM bands, like ever"
- Terrorizer Magazine

Devoured are a Death/Thrash metal band from Wakefield, UK, formed in December 2009.
An EP entitled 'Minds of the Tortured' was released in June 2010, soon to be followed by a second EP; 'Where's your God now?' in the very near future.
Devoured are now playing a number of live shows around the UK, so please come watch us!
Gig listings are on our myspace page. 
www.myspace.com/Devoureduk


3) Devoured is known as death metal band from Yogyakarta, East Java, Indonesia. Although their music is mixed between death metal and grindcore in such brutal touch. This band was formed in 1998 and has at least three albums: Infested / Devoured / Despondency (Split, 2005), Devoured (Demo, 2005), Atrocities Five-Way Split (Split, 2006). Current line-up: I Nyoman Sastrawan - Vocals, Safik Rosad - Guitars, Sri Mulyadi Akmal - Bass, Roy Agus - Drums. Former/past member(s): Anthony Topaz Danang Subandono - Drums (Drosophila, Nocturn Project). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DEVOURED">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.