1) DEVolution are a garage/dub duo consisting of Pete Devereux (formally part of the music duo Artful Dodger - the other being Mark Hill, now known as Artful) and former Size Records artist Tom Devos.  The DEVolution duo are writing, producing and playing music which can generally be described as in the dubstep genre, but which they call "Embrace the Bass". 

DEVolution write on their Facebook page [http://www.facebook.com/wearedevolution?sk=info] the following:

"DEVolution is a natural progression for Pete Devereux, whose work with Artful Dodger helped to define the UK Garage scene as a major mainstream genre. As one-half of Artful Dodger, Devereux scored five Top 10 hits (including ‘Re-Rewind’ and ‘Movin’ Too Fast’), an Ivor Novello award and helped to launch the career of Craig David. Collectively, the duo sold over 1.5 million singles and 500,000 copies of their debut album ‘It’s All About The Stragglers’."

Joining Devereux in DEVolution is fellow Southampton-based producer Tom Devos. Devos was one of the first artists to be signed to Steve Angello’s Size Records and recorded an album with Angello and his future Swedish House Mafia collaborator Sebastian Ingrosso. Devos also worked under the name The Dawn who produced the cult downtempo hit ‘Wonderful’ for Onephatdeepa."

Their webpage can be found at http://wearedevolution.com/

2) Devolution is an American death metal band.

3) Devolution is an Austrian indie rock band.

4) dEvolution are an Irish blend of myriad influences, infused to create a churning cauldron of noise and heft. 

5) Devolution is an alternative hardrock band from Bergen op Zoom, the Netherlands. This three-headed rocktrio was formed by Pim Lohmeijer (guitar), Vincent Kil (drums and vocals) and Laurens Kil (bass and vocals). After its foundation in 2004, the band had been plagued by guitarists joining and leaving the band, by recording problems and by disease. The recording and release of their first self-recorded album in 2006, More Than A Name, concluded this chaotic period. This album received many positive reviews, and eventually the song ‘Pendant’ found its way into the Indie Advice List of the Dutch chart ‘Free40’.

This unexpected but welcome success encouraged the band to plan recording sessions during the autumn/winter of 2006; their second self-recorded album De Profundis was released in early 2007. More positive reviews followed and in April of 2007 Devolution was even elected “Grolsch Talent of the month”. The band spent the remainder of the year performing regularly on local festivals and made a few (acoustic) radio appearances on LocalFM (Etten-Leur).

An acoustic download-only single featuring “Instead” and “Orpheus” was released in May 2009. However, due to the name Devolution being claimed already the band’s name was changed to Simius. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DEVolution">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.