Devonté "Dev" Hynes, also known as Blood Orange and formerly Lightspeed Champion, is a British singer, composer, songwriter, producer and author. 
He has written for artists such as Florence and the Machine, Diana Vickers and The Chemical Brothers on their 2007 Grammy award winning album We Are the Night. He is currently signed to Domino Records.

The name 'Lightspeed Champion' comes from a series of comic strips Hynes drew as a teenager in his school mathematics books.[4] Hynes was voted the 49th 'coolest person in rock' in NME's 2007 Cool List,[5] jumping to position 20 in the following year's list.[6] From their formation in 2004 until their break-up in 2006, Hynes was a member of the band Test Icicles, playing guitar, synth, and occasionally performing vocals. They released only one full-length album (For Screening Purposes Only) in 2005.

Hynes released his fourth studio album in November 2013 under his 'Blood Orange' moniker entitled Cupid Deluxe. Currently Hynes has been working with Mutya Keisha Siobhan on their forthcoming album.

In December 2008, Hynes was asked on behalf of The British Film Institute to perform the Soundtrack of the cult Hal Ashby film Harold And Maude after a screening of the performance. Hynes then had to cancel this due to an operation he had to undergo on his throat. The event was rescheduled for May 2009. In July 2009 Hynes reprised the soundtrack and performed at Latitude Festival.

In June 2009 Hynes performed at The Barbican in London in commemoration of the composer Moondog. Singing renditions along with London Saxophonic of songs from the Moondog Album "Sax Pax for a Sax". He also sung "Fujiyama part 2" backed by The Britten Sinfonia conducted by André De Ridder and Andi Toma (Mouse on Mars).

In April 2010 Hynes returned to The Barbican to perform with The Triffids for a special concert in honour of their singer Dave McComb along with Warren Ellis, Tindersticks and members of The Brian Jonestown Massacre.

In December an EP titled "Bye Bye" was released in collaboration with composer Van Dyke Parks.

Hynes scored the 2013 film Palo Alto, directed by Gia Coppola.
~ wikipedia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Devonte+Hynes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.