1. Dewfall (듀폴) is a Korean indie pop rock band formed in 2006.

Discography:
2007.08.27 - Nostalgia (ep)
2008.11.11 - Fly (ep)
2009.07.28 - 기억하니 (ep)

2. DewFall is an Italian Metal band born in the musical cradle of Bari (Italy-2003) with Flavio Paterno, Giuseppe Carnimeo (the two guitar players of the band) and Valerio Lorè (bass guitar). Simone Simplicio (vocals) and Guido Penta (drums) later joined.
A first Demo was released in March 2004: "Legacy Of Soul..." which is mostly NWOBHM oriented, but ranging among the several metal influences.

Dewfall have taken part in the 3rd South’s Cheyenne Bike Show & Rock- Metal Festival on 5-6-7-8-August 2004 where they played with special guests Natron and Virgin Steele. The Festival offered 20 minutes per band and DewFall performed pleasing the headbangers and the jury composed by journalists of metal reviews, who assigned to DewFall the 3rd position among the 15 metal bands. The contest at the Bikers’ Festival was won by the band in December 2005.
In September 2004 DewFall received a Credit Diploma from Radio West, the Italian radio-station in Kosovo that assigned to DewFall this diploma with a symbolic shield for the success obtained among the Italian and the German troops (in this case together with the German band “Majesty”…) and the Serbian and Kosovo radio-stations. During that period some of DewFall’s songs were broadcasted by the Yogoslavian Radio Tuzla station in the section: “The Jeans Generation”.
The first 2004’s demo "Legacy Of Soul..." has had a very good feedback from press and webzines too (you can read about this on our web site at the voice “press”…): review on Metal Shock italian metal magazine, and on Rock Hard (7,5/10). “Legacy Of Soul…” appeared with two “top demos” on the main Italian portals www.eutk.net (8/10) and www.defendersofsteel.net (8/10 where an interview has been also published) together with the review on the German web site www.powermetal.de , the Austrian one www.metal-news-austria.com , the Croatian www.cmar-net.org and www.barikada.com (an ex-yugoslavian web site)… “Legacy Of Soul…” interested the greek label “Secret Port Records” but the band didn’t accept the deal for several reasons.

Since 2006 DewFall have been composing the new songs which have filled their first full length “V.I.T.R.I.O.L.”, this is a very innovative period that is marked by sonority changes. The band has performed in several shows and metal contests. In September 2006 we took part in Total Metal Festival (Bari – ITA) with Necrodeath, Highlord, DGM, Rain and many others.
In November 2006, the singer Simone Simplicio and the guitarist Giuseppe Carnimeo left, and were replaced by Matteo Capasso, who plays both roles. With the new line up the band performed on May 2007 in Bari with the stoner-metal band The Sovran, and at the opening of the new metal contest Welcome To The Pit, in Bari on September 2007 with Motherly Sin and Deliria at Target Club.
Their most recent shows has taken place in Bari at Target Club on 16th Jan. 2009 with ROSAE CRUCIS from Rome, one of the greatest epic metal bands in Italy, and in Taranto at Lucky Moment Pub on 6th Feb. 2009 with Blind Faith RMP.

The new full length “V.I.T.R.I.O.L.” has been recorded and mixed at Pro Hearing Studio (Capurso, Bari –ITALY) in the months of June/July/November/December 2007. The release has 9 songs, the influences are Heavy-Death-Thrash Metal sometimes with Epic and Acoustic/Ambient sonorities and Progressive accents… keeping a constant melodic matrix mostly for what concerns guitars’ harmonization. The lyrics are mostly linked with esotherics, gothic literature and mythology, regarding realistic existential themes. The concept originates from a sort of spiritualistic path, belonging to the alchemic/ masonic world: V.I.T.R.I.O.L. stands for “Visita Interiora Terrae Rectificandoque Invenies Occultum Lapidem”, a latin inscription that endevours to focus human attention on its realistic condition with the purpose of ameliorate it (parallelism with the discovery of the brimstone –occultum lapidem- symbol of the alchemic purification…).
The Artwork for “V.I.T.R.I.O.L.” has been realized by Claudio Grilli/ Cool Graphics (concept by Flavio Paterno). It recreates, both in the cover symbols and in the inner details, the lyrics contents and the ancient alchemic book aspect.
The present line up (average age 23) is Flavio Paterno (26- Rhythm and lead guitar), Matteo Capasso (17- Lead guitar and Melodic Vocals/ Studio Keyboards), Valerio Lorè (23- Bass guitar and Extreme Vocals) and Andrea Puzo (26- Drums). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DewFall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.