In April 2003, the band previously known as Dexys Midnight Runners, re-emerged in a new six-piece incarnation with their name shortened to Dexys.

In February 2012, band leader Kevin Rowland officially confirmed the release of a fourth studio album for the band, with the name still shortened to Dexys.

The album entitled One Day I'm Going To Soar was released on 4 June 2012.

Dexys first ever live album, Nowhere Is Home - Live at Duke Of York's Theatre, recorded during their performances at the Duke Of York theatre in London in 2013 was released in a variety of different versions on 20 October 2014. 

Let The Record Show: Dexys Do Irish and Country Soul was released by Rhino on 3 June 2016.  The album is a body of work which sees Dexys putting their heart and soul into every track that Kevin Rowland has wanted to do since the mid-1980s. Drawing on Rowland and co-producer/core band member Sean Read’s Irish roots, the album is a combination of their interpretations of Irish songs and other select compositions. Each song has been given at least the same level of attention and care as any of their own songs would be. This record is not a stop gap, or a fill in album. It is not a covers album.

“We had the idea to do this album in 1984 or 1985,” says Rowland. “It was to be called Irish and was to feature songs like ‘Carrickfergus’, ‘Curragh of Kildare’ and ‘Women Of Ireland’ – all of which are featured here. Dexys broke up not too long afterwards, so it didn’t happen.”
 
“Over the years, I would often think about it,” he continues. “The idea of it never went away. I can recall 10 or 12 years ago thinking, for example, ‘If I do ‘Carrickfergus’, I can try this or that.’ Or maybe we can do 'You Wear it Well’, as the brief had expanded from solely consisting of Irish songs, to songs I’ve always loved and wanted to record. The album was always at the back of my mind.  Then just as we were getting ready to record ‘One Day I'm Going To Soar’, I had an inspirational bolt from the blue, a strong clear feeling that this album should be our next project.'
 
Birmingham, England <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dexys">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.