Diabolic Intent was founded in 1998 and quickly recorded and released a four song cassette demo. By 2000 a long two and a half year tour schedule would follow with DI playing headline support for Cannibal Corpse, Mastodon, Hate Eternal, Monstrosity, Dying Fetus, Killswitch Engage, Chimaira, Diecast, Lamb Of God and many more great bands. In between all the touring in 2001, Diabolic Intent released their official full length debut, Reborn. The album has sold out with a limited print of 2100 copies. It can be found in every continent from South Africa to Europe to the USA. Reborn was distributed by Relapse Records and direct from the band at all shows.

DI releases Live, Demos and Rarities in spring 2003. Giving to the fans and making a stand against the whole music downloading lawsuits, DI offered the entire album for free download. This marked the first ever full album released for free download, legally, on the entire internet world at that time in cyber space.

In winter 2004, Diabolic Intent recorded 3 new songs and released it as the FCC (Forcing Censored Content) EP. This album was also offered for free download. To date, this release has gained over 15,250 unique downloads. Diabolic Intent continued to tour in support of FCC well into the end of 2005, sharing the stage with many more great signed bands like Origin, Misery Index, F*ck the Facts and many others.

The free music DI offered over the years caught the ear of a predominant producer from Johannesburg, South Africa by the name of Ankha of Dark Angel Studios. In 2006, she offered DI a production deal and they quickly hopped onto the 23 hour plane flight to South Africa and spent 3 weeks 24/7 recording their 2007 album, The Cold Path Of Man. When the band got back to the states, they again gave the album away for free download, as this is something they have become known for. At press time, over 64,000 unique downloads have been registered. DI toured in support of Cold Path well into the end of 2007.

In 2008 they began writing their next full length, Neurotic Bloodworks. But by 2009 with nearly the entire album completed, DI upgraded their sound to a whole new level. Chris adapted the 8 string guitar into the last few tracks and broke the metal boundaries by tuning his new axe to the lowest possible E tuning. To bring everything into an even more uncharted realm, Ant added a 6 string fretless bass into the mesmerizing sound the band was now crafting. With the new sound, The guys decided while they built up their recording studio, they would continue writing... Bionomenclature was written during 2010 and is a step beyond Neurotic Bloodworks. Now with two full albums worth of material ready for tracking, the studio is now complete and recording begins in the first few months of 2011. To speed the process, the guys decided to split the albums into EPs. Bionomenclature is being recorded now. Neurotic Bloodworks will be started in Sept 2011 and Architects of Mayhem will be recorded Nov 2011. All the new albums will be offered for free digital download, as they have always done... The future is evolving… and Diabolic Intent is leading the revolution.

DI plans many shows in support of Neurotic Bloodworks and Bionomenclature. Stay updated at the main portal for all Diabolic Intent networks at http://diabolicintent.com/ 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diabolic+Intent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.