DIACHRONIA (from Greek dia = through / chronos = time) was formed by Konik Northbert in Bielsko-Biala (Poland) in 1997. In the same year they were signed to Millenium Records from Warsaw, with whom they released their first official demo called "Hymn to the fate." Reviews described it as "Thrash/Death metal with melodies". Lots of gigs and line-up changes shortly followed, where Konik became the only original member and songwriter for years to come.

In 2001, the band recorded its first full-length album entitled "XX Decline" which was produced and released by Great White North from Canada. The album embraced Black Metal, not forgetting about the band's Death/Thrash roots. The reviews were raving. The band played loads of festivals in Poland, Czech Republic supporting Vader, Kat and others as well as making occasional trips abroad.

A few line-up changes later, an entirely new cast of members recorded album number two "Absolute Time" in 2006. By this point Diachronia had finally crystallized their own unique musical style, mixing brutality of Black and Death metal with melodic lines of somewhat classical origin. The album's reviews were again very good, but lack of promotion (the album was self-released) and musical differences within the band forced Konik to pursue his dream elsewhere… … and he chose London.

The end of 2007 proved to be very promising when Konik found new members and rehearsals of the new Diachronia began. The newborn but experienced musicianship allowed the band to revisit old compositions anew, imparting a fresh creativity and also helped to speed up the writing of the new material. Diachronia started gigging in London, soon after playing a gig with KAT in Poland.

Between September and November 2008, the band recorded a third full-length album called "Chaos Eternal". The track-list includes the 3-song "Evilution Trilogy" and a new version of the title track from Diachronia’s very first demo, now renamed "Anthem of Fate". Currently Diachronia's got new crazy members Castor - bass and Michal - voc and Cagri - keyboard.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diachronia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.