Dialect began rhyming at the tender age of 12, inspired by his eldest brothers collection of classic 80’s/90’s era Hip Hop. Entering his first freestyle battle at the age of 13 Dialect took it out and went on to win countless more battles making him a force to be reckoned with on the mic at an early age.

Well renown for his remarkable freestyle ability and live show performance Dialect became a stalwart in the live hip hop circuit in Adelaide. He then released his debut EP The Sound of Change in 2006 featuring hip hop heavyweight Delta on the now classic Freestyle Jam, Freestyle Exodus. The EP received positive reviews and topped the South Australian Music Charts for consecutive weeks.

After the success of his first EP Dialect continued touring Australia and has played support for some of the Biggest International acts hip hop has to offer; including Ghostface Killah, The Beatnuts, Lord Finesse, DJ Premier Grandmaster Flash, Jeru Tha Damaja, RZA, MOP, Pharoahe Monch, Masta Ace, Kool Keith & Lupe Fiasco at 2009’s Big Day Out.

In 2008, Dialect released his long awaited debut LP Rugged Uncut to wide critical Acclaim. The album featured cuts and production from Australia’s finest and appearances from Prince Po of legendary 90’s New York outfit Organized Konfusion & Louisville Sluggah (NY) of the Boot Camp Click.

Dialect recently featured on 2 tracks off celebrated undergorund New York lyricist C Rayz Walz latest album. Dialect was elected as a Triple J Unearthed Artist Spotlight in March last year giving him nationwide attention.

in 2010 Dialect joined with Adelaide producer Despair to release the album "The Vortex", featuring Delta, Motion & Social Change.

During legendary New York Crew EPMD’s tour of Australia, member & multi platinum producer Erick Sermon visited the studio where Dialect & Despair had been producing their new album, The Vortex, listened to the demo of the forthcoming album and labeled Dialect & Despair as the future of hip hop in Australia.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dialect+And+Despair">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.