1) - Venturing on the scopes of rampant styles like punk and garage rock, Sweden's Diamond Dogs formed in the late '90s, with an extended lineup consisting of Anders Lindstrom (guitar), Stefan Björk (bass), Stevie Klasson (guitar), Sulo Karlsson (vocals), Henrik Widen (piano, keyboards), Jesper Karlsson (drums), and Matthias Helberg (harp). Shortly after forming, the crew started playing numerous live shows, easily gathering a loyal fan base within the local alternative and punk rock scene. 

The EPs Among the Non-Believers and Shortplayer were the band's first releases via the Feedback Boogie label, and solidified even more their recognition, not only in Sweden, but also in the neighboring northern European countries. Diamond Dogs continued with their presentation of flammable rock & roll, and, in 2000, offered As Your Greens Turn Burn, their first full-length disc. Two years later, Too Much Is Always Better Than Enough, the group's second album, hit the record stores, before the band entered an extended European tour.

2) - Diamond Dogs is a Wolverhampton based heavy rock band that was formed in 1984 out of the ashes of the disbanded Montreaux. The band line up consisted of former Montreaux members Andy Harper on drums, Paul Hodson on bass guitar, Rob Byrne lead vocals and former Reddy Eddies member Jeff Bowden on lead guitar. Like Montreaux before them Diamond Dogs quickly became an active band in the local area gaining a cult following and reputation as fine live performers. Though not reaching the heights expected, disappointment set in and the band split in 1985.

3) - Diamond Dogs is an Oi Punk band from The Netherlands, formed in 2020.

4) - Diamond Dogs is a David Bowie tribute band from Norway.

5) - For the South African rock band, see The Diamond Dogs.

6) - Diamond Dogs is a Swiss band with a 1995 release, 'Libido'.

Bass, Backing Vocals – Marino (9)
Drums – Üsé Meyer
Guitar – Pat Barrett (5)
Vocals, Guitar – Mike Widmer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diamond+Dogs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.