Diamond Rexx was an outrageous band that came bursting onto the scene amid a flurry of hair spray and cutting edge glam. Despite the look, their brand of music (similar to a sleazy version of Alice Cooper mixed with some early Motley Crue) easily separated them from the majority of pop friendly hair bands that were hitting it big in the 80's. 
  The band was formed in Chicago, Illinois by vocalist Nasty Habits and guitarist S. St. Lust in mid 1986. Four short months after their first live show the band got signed to Island records, and with the addition of bassist Andre and drummer Johnny Cottone they unleashed the debut platter Land Of The Damned. The video for "Wish I Was Rich" got limited play, but it wasn't enough for Island, which dropped the band in 1988. 
  In early 1989 both Lust (opting to join D'Molls, going by the name S.S. Priest) and Andre decided to leave the band. Habits vowed to continue with a harder sound and recruited guitarist Johnny L. Angel and bassist Chrissy Salem for the follow-up album. Cottone left the band just prior to the release of Rated Rexx (later appearing with Eric Steel) and Tim Tully appeared on the cover of the album. However the tour for this album saw the return of Lust as well as the addition of drummer Billy Nychay, but only one more album was released before the band broke up in 1993. 
  With the resurgence of hard rock in the late 90's, Diamond Rexx decided to reform in 2001 with Habits, Lust, Andre and Nychay. But a short month later Andre decided to pursue school, and was temporarily replaced by Basil Cooper (Daisey Chain and Mind Bomb), before Tommy Hanus rounded out the reformed band. Rexx Erected, a previously record but unreleased album, showed that the band still had the magic that set them apart so many years ago. Nychay (who would later form Kicking K8) then departed to be replaced by Bill Schmidt for the group's latest offering. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diamond+Rexx">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.