A common passion, inspiration and way of seeing the world led, in June 2008, two friends - guitarist Janek Niedzielski and vocalist Filip Zielinski - to join forces on a project called Dianoya. Their musical pathways had previously crossed many times, but it was not until Dianoya that they began to compose together. Before long they assembled a full band: longtime friend and drummer Łukasz Chmielinski; bassist Adam Pierzchała; and at the end of the year guitarist Maciej Papalski.
The collaboration of these five young, creative, and educated musicians, who had years of experience from previous music projects, resulted in some very sophisticated musical ideas. Determination and hard work enabled them to succeed in recording, registering and releasing the band's ambitious debut material on the album "Obscurity Divine", which has been available since 8th March 2010 in Poland.
Although Dianoya has not been long on the domestic market, it has already met with many positive opinions and reviews on the most prestigious sites in the field of rock music in Poland: www.progrock.org.pl , www.rockarea.pl, and www.artrock.pl . The creators of the album have also received awards at several nationwide rock festivals. All this has meant that Dianoya's music has become a permanent fixture on the playlists of many Polish radio stations.
Meanwhile, Polish audiences have had the opportunity to get to know the band and its music during their tour promoting their album, which took place in March 2010. Further contact with fans and listeners is ongoing, provided by a large number of concerts and interviews.
The number of people listening to Dianoya has significantly increased not only in Poland but also abroad - evidenced by entries on myspace, and emails from foreign supporters of progressive music. Thus the musicians of Dianoya dream to meet with their foreign fans and give them more direct contact with their music.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dianoya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.