Diarrhea Planet was a six-piece rock and roll band from Nashville, TN. Their sound has often been described as The Ramones holding Van Halen hostage with an arsenal of fireworks and explosives. Diarrhea Planet's four guitarists provide enough riffs to make Jack Black squeal like a schoolgirl, while lead singer Hodan delivers enough hooks to straighten the curl out of Justin Timberlake's hair. In a world of unintelligible lo-fi recording, reverb drenched vocals, and tuneless guitars, Diarrhea Planet aims to put the backbone back into rock and roll.
            The band initially formed in the Spring of 2009 with drummer Casey, and two guitarists Jordan Smith and Evan P. Donohue. That fall the band decided to flesh out their sound with bass and a third guitar, adding Mike Boyle and Brent Toler. They self-released the five song EP, Aloha, in November. The album sounded like a mix between an uncontrollable college party and a gut-wrenching Tae Bo workout. With the Mediafire link popping up on a variety of blogs, Aloha became a sleeper online sensation. Perhaps due to the unusual band name, the EP garnered around 1,500 downloads in its first week online. By the time the band took down the Mediafire link early the next year, The EP had collected over 10,000 downloads.
            In the summer of 2010, Evan P. Donohue decided to focus on his own music and left Diarrhea Planet. The band quickly adopted shredders Evan Bird and Emmett Miller, generating Diarrhea Planet's most empowering line-up. The band shifted some of their focus from delinquent party rock to slightly more sophisticated songwriting and guitar theatrics that will make every living guitar hero cry out of joy and/or despair. After this change-up, the band played an exhausting amount of local shows. They have opened for acts such as Wavves, Fucked Up, Jeff the Brotherhood, Andrew Jackson Jihad, Defiance OH, Jacuzzi Boys, The Spits, and The Coathangers. They have also played a variety of basements, warehouses, frat bars, and dorm rooms. The overwhelming volume and sheer brutality of their live onslaught satiates those who crave power and thunder, while the meek grovel on the beer-soaked floor. The wall of heavy riffage and intricate shredding infuses audiences with enough electrical energy to stave off sleep for the rest of the weekend. Despite their leanings towards punk and heavy metal, Diarrhea Planet swears by the Bible of pop. With a distinct emphasis on vocal hooks and harmonies, their shows often morph into massive, drunken sing-alongs.
            Diarrhea Planet put out their first physical release in the spring of 2011, when Philadelphia's Evil Weevil label released Aloha on 7" vinyl. That summer, the band signed to Nashville's Infinity Cat Recordings (home of Jeff the Brotherhood, Heavy Cream, Natural Child, Pujol, and more) and released the 7" Yama-Uba as part of Infinity Cat's Econoline series. The band has traveled throughout the East coast on extensive self-booked tours in support of their two releases. This fall, the band will continue to tour in support of their full-length album, Loose Jewels, which comes out September 20th on Infinity Cat Recordings.

                                                - Thomas “Brent Tommy Tollroad Dallas” Toler

http://diarrheaplanet.blogspot.com

"Shred till you're dead, or go to hell." - Diarrhea Planet <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diarrhea+Planet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.