DIASCORIUM - Technical death / black / extreme metal with occasional hints of grind, doom, thrash and slam, from Leeds.

Listen to all our music (download EP, stream the Split Roast) here:- http://www.diascorium.bandcamp.com

We are made up of experienced musicians who have all played and recorded a lot over the years. Bond (ex-Morkret) and Paul (ex-Reth, Narcosis, Tangaroa, Canvas) started writing songs December 2009. Gaz (ex-Citadel, current A Forest Of Stars) and Bernard (current Revokation) joined February 2010. Our first EP 'Abstractions of the Absolute' has had in excess of 60,000 free downloads from various sources, and our second recording was part of the highly acclaimed 'Split Roast' album brought out on Condate Records. We'll be recording a full album during 2012.

We played our first gig in May 2010, supporting Desecration, and since then we've had the fortune of playing with some amazing touring bands (Origin, Leng tch'e, Psycroptic, 1349, Keelhaul, Knut, The Ocean, Magrudergrind, Bloody Phoenix, Prostitute Disfigurement, Warbringer to name a few). We've also been involved in some huge all dayers and festivals, including Damnation Festival 2010, as well as sharing a stage with a lot of the cream of the UK's metal bands (including Wodensthrone, Winterfylleth, Ingested, Desecration, Man Must Die, Astrohenge amongst others).

Alongside all this, our grammar is general perfect, our musical equipment is usually a major talking point and we relentlessly shout about the gigs and things we are involved with. Have van, will travel, will bring backline if required, and shall no doubt abuse your audiences wherever we are with Yorkshire slang, dangerous behaviour, swearing and ridiculous riffs.

FOR ANY INFO, GIG OFFERS, INTERVIEW / PHOTO SHOOT REQUESTS OR OFFERS OF PROMOTION ETC., PLEASE GET IN TOUCH AT:- DIASCORIUM@GMAIL.COM

General info and previous / upcoming gigs here:- http://www.diascorium.webs.com

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diascorium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.