There are more than one bands going by the name Diavolo.  

1. Conceived on a humid summer night in 2005 Diavolo came together when Claude came to Steve and discussed starting a grind core side project. Claude said he knew a bass player and drummer named Mitch so they started jamming. As they jammed that day they all clicked musically like they never had before. It was raw, pissed and fast as hell. They knew they were on to something three of them at least. After a while they started growing apart from their bass player because of personal issues only he could face they decided to part ways with him. After tiring a few bass players they finally got a call From Benjobadass and they invited him to come down and Jam. They realized that they had the Players needed to make a mark. Diavolo had become their religion and music their food they strived on making the best music possible. They started playing show after show in towns all over. But they weren’t satisfied they wanted more so they started hunting for a second guitar player and felt like everyone had been tapped in the area. Then John started jamming with them and they knew they found the right person for the job With their lineup complete they are never looking back and ready to take it to the next level. 

2. This was Mick Bynes' first ever project that started in Pomona, NY (located in Rockland County, NY).  It was just electric guitar recordings from 2002-2004. In 2004, the project was named Diavolo. During that year, only two demos were recorded.  A split with Vonal-Ksz was released the same year and it is extremely rare.  Diavolo's side of the split is called Death of a Pedarist.  The song Bruce Springsteen Sucks got airplay on an internet radio station. The project ended in late 2004.  

As time went by, Death of a Pedarist was re-released by an Italian based record label called End of Music.  This time it was released with Bodily Waste Concoction in 2008.  The label released it without the permission of Bynes and it is unclear why.  Bynes was never told about this and he was unaware of it until around the late 2010's.  At first, Bynes was unhappy with this.  However, he has now stated that he does not mind it as of 2020. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diavolo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.