Dichotic - Sturgeon Bay, WI, United States

Forming in 2005, DICHOTIC spent most of their time writing and finding the style they wanted to persue. From then until early 2007, they cultivated a local following in their home town of Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin. Together, they have over 70 years of combined experience and professionalism.

In June 2007, that experience and professionalism was recognized as they were requested to perform and host one of eight stages at the Steel Bridge SongFest, in Sturgeon Bay, WI. When asked to perform by organizer pat mAcdonald (best known from Timbuk3), DICHOTIC could not refuse the chance to perform at a festival which included the names like Jackson Browne, Jane Weidlin (Go-Gos), and of course, pat mAcdonald.

accept the invitation they did, knowing there wasn’t another artist performing as heavy and hard hitting as “The Mighty DICHOTIC”, as referred to by other local musicians. DICHOTIC was truly the odd man out.

Since DICHOTIC’s appearance at the 2007 Steel Bridge SongFest the festival organizers have given DICHOTIC the newly created “Hard Rock” stage, to host all three nights in 2008. The only band in the festival’s history to be given the honor of hosting all nights. Additionally, they remain booked at least 4 nights per month since the festival.

Come May, 2008, DICHOTIC signed with Indie-Label Psycho Drive Studios LLC. Psycho Drive has been instrumental in furthering the success of DICHOTIC with their marketing and promotional pursuits.

DICHOTIC’s style is heavily influenced by a variety of aggressive metal flavors and true to the name DICHOTIC. Which they’ve evolved to mean any one thing perceived through multiple perceptions.

Musically, Dichotic sidesteps the metal sounds so prominent in today’s metal arena while remaining loyal to the aggressive side of the musical spectrum. As well as incorporating classic metal flavors.

Innovative, powerful, crushing, and intelligent is the signature style that is DICHOTIC. The guitar sounds leap forward from the seasoned hands of Aaron and Ace with a killer sense of urgency. Their rhythm/lead trade-off style will grip you while never overpowering the percussive groove provided by Jake and the masterful bass tones of Bron. The musicianship is simply superb, provides a solid foundation for the searing vocals of Jester Exodus; Whose commanding presence can be felt both on disc and on stage.

Dichotic is influenced by a variety of artists and genres. To name a few: Beethoven, Judas Priest, Black Sabbath, Pantera, Dio, Iron Maiden, Lamb of God, Slaughter, Arch Enemy, and many more.

Lyrically, the music is driven by many years of living. Experiences such as heart break, drugs, war, friendships, love, success, failures, life, and death.

National Artists DICHOTIC Has Supported:
Megadeth, In Flames, Children of Bodom, Job for a Cowboy, High on Fire, Opeth, Powerman 5000, Bleed The Sky, The Destro, and Gigan. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dichotic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.