1)Founded in 2007 by guitarist Jeff Hirt, the band has endured a few member changes to arrive at the current incarnation. Now close friends, all members of the band initially met for the sole purpose of playing and performing this music. Singer Brent Kozlowski brings his vocal range from aggressive deep growls to catchy clean hooks, and everything in between; guitarist Jeff Hirt rips through insane riffs with conviction;bassist Dan Murtha fills in the low end with parts that demand to be heard rather than merely blend into the background; and drummer Rob Cappello has the fast chops that will get your heart pounding.

The music has a way of existing comfortably between technical and accessible. While the intricate rhythms will make musicians take notice, there is just as much well written material here for all other listeners to appreciate as well. In a way, Dichotomy hearkens back to the former days of metal - and all music for that matter; bad-ass and powerful, there is feeling to the words being sung and the notes being played. It is raw and it is real.

This band loves their fans. They thrive on getting on the stage to put on a damn good show for everyone in attendance. Dichotomy seems to win over crowds every show they play. To them, nothing is better than to bring all their fans, friends, and strangers in the crowd together to just go absolutely crazy while also forming a certain comradery that more and more people are starting to understand. Lately, the group has started opening for nationally known acts. With their sights set on the next level, they urge you to join the movement...if they have it their way, its going to be one hell of a ride!

2) Dichotomy is a hardcore band from Vancouver, CA

3) The Dichotomy project was formally created by John Thibault, on Walpurgisnacht, April 30th, 2003 with the idea of fusing His own industrial influence with an electro/electronica core.

After being in numerous groups, as well as sneaking around the local DJ scene, Dichotomy became a solo project and he became experienced in sequencing and hardcore audio after years of experimentation.

4) Dichotomy is a Technical Death Metal band from Dublin, Ireland
https://www.facebook.com/DichotomyIreland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dichotomy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.