What was started off as a side-project grew into more than just that after the music started coming together. Bobby and Robert of Allthesame decided to start a temporary project to pass the time while they went through drummers. Everytime they found a drummer, it never worked out. So then came Diebomb, Death metal with a twist. Originally started with just the idea of "Hey, wouldn't Diebomb be an awesome band name?" The writing began. Being fed up with drummers, the band decided to use programmed drums. Without ever having to worry about a drummer being late for pratice, or being a jerk, more time was spent on the band. With the combined efforts of both bandmates, writing and recording new songs started only a couple days from the starting point of the band. They would never settle for mediocre, so all songs had to be good. Sadly, some of the first recordings had poor quality so they were dropped. Learning the basics of recording and doing it themselves, Bobby and Robert managed to get an EP and a full cd finished in about 2 and a half months of being a band. The EP was only released to the public only online, and for free but the full length, "A Theme of Murder", was released to buy on CD-R's, but with professional cases, for only $8. The cd was released on their self-made record label called "ATS Recordings". The band still considers themselves as unsigned though. With being a beginning label and having no bands but their own, promotion was hard. Shortly after the full length was released, the band started getting positive reviews by many people online. Seeing the good feedback, and loving the fact that they did it all themselves, Bobby and Robert decided to make Diebomb their priority. Not needing a third leg in the band was something good, far less arguments, and no different views for the direction of the music. Hoping to inspire the music community, and to get label support, Diebomb continues to write and record music as often as possible. The band doesn't look to be popular, they just want to show everyone that if you're different, you can still be just as good as all the other bands that sound alike.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diebomb">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.