Diesel Boy are an American punk rock band from Santa Rosa, California since 1993, who were signed to indie punk label Honest Don's, a sub-division of Fat Wreck Chords. Their latest CD was released in 2001, titled "Rode Hard And Put Away Wet".

In their 8 or so years together, Diesel Boy released four full-length albums: "Cock Rock” (1996), "Venus Envy” (1998), "Sofa King Cool” (1999) and “Rode Hard and Put Away Wet” (2001). All four were issued by Honest Don’s, an imprint of Fat Wreck Chords, and all four are still in print. They also released a split EP with Divit titled “Double Letter Score,” as well as two seven inches, one on Fat (“Strap on Seven Inch”) and the other, a self-released split with Josh’s Bike.

During their time together, the band logged thousands of miles in their Ford Econline van. They crisscrossed North America countless times, Europe a bunch, and even made it to the sunny shores of Australia where they fed kangaroos and ate Vegemite. Their biggest regret was never making it to Japan.

Over the years they were lucky enough to play The Vans Warped Tour a couple of times, as well as share the stage with tons of bands they loved: NOFX, Strung Out, Goober Patrol, blink-182, Alkaline Trio, Bigwig, Good Riddance, Unwritten Law, Guttermouth, Bracket, SNFU, Bouncing Souls, All, Satanic Surfers, The Offspring, Snapcase, MXPX, Less Than Jake, Swingin' Utters, GOB, The Vandals, No Use For A Name The Ataris and on and on and on. Sum 41 once opened for them, but that was long before any of them were married to (and then divorced from) Avril Lavigne. The weirdest bill they ever appeared on? It’s a tie between their gig with Biohazard and the time they opened for The Sugar Hill Gang in Colorado.

The band is also proud of their appearance in the "Noshing and Moshing” episode of the short-lived but well-loved NBC TV series Freaks and Geeks, where they played the band opening for Puss (though sadly, Puss never appeared). They got to wear leather pants and lots of eye makeup, and stuntmen crowd surfed while they performed to a packed crowd of punk rock extras.

Though Diesel Boy never officially broke up, they haven’t played a show or rehearsed together since sometime in 2002. Talks of a reunion tour have surfaced on occasion, but were quickly stalled by the realization that lots people would have to actually give a shit to warrant talks of a reunion.


But... you never know. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diesel+Boy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.