From Tooting, South West London, Dignan Porch started as the home recording project of Joe Walsh. After signing to Captured Tracks they put out the first single On a Ride, the ninety second psyche-pop mini anthem. The single was followed swiftly by the release of Joe’s home made LP Tendrils, also on Captured Tracks. These releases garnered acclaim from the likes of Pitchfork, Vice, Rough Trade and many more.
 
The now 5-piece Dignan have recently toured the UK with Times New Viking and gigged with the likes of Tickley Feather, The Intelligence, Lovvers, Lets Wrestle, Veronica Falls, Blank Dogs, Yuck, Smith Westerns and Ty Segall. Dignan Porch have been praised for their explosive live shows by The Fly and Drowned in Sound: ‘fuzz-infused lo-fi punk that gives many of their US contemporaries a serious run for the money’
 
For their latest Captured Tracks EP Deluded Dignan Porch stepped into a studio with the full band, plus Henry Withers from Lovvers working the desk. The EP caused excitement on the blogosphere, gaining much praise from sites such as The Line of Best Fit: ‘Joe Walsh and the gang manage to capture a truly thrilling ride without letting up on the honesty. It is effortless for them. It's real. It's a pure crystallised idea’
 
Dignan Porch are now writing and recording their next LP which promises to be a culmination of their journey through home brewed jangle pop songs to pulsing psychedelic punk.
 
Dignan Porch are Joe Walsh on guitar and vocals, younger brother Sam Walsh on lead guitar, Hayley Akins on keyboard and vocals, Ben Goodwin on bass and Stephen Keane on drums.
 
“Dignan Porch are several matches made in heaven. all the way from exotic tooting, the group touch down into the effects-heavy shoegaze/dream pop world with some lovely vocals and harmonics but they really fly when they unashamedly let loose on the slacker guitar-hero stuff. Bursting with coolness and melodies to kill or die for.” - Rough Trade
 
www.dignanporch.bandcamp.com

https://www.facebook.com/dignanporchmusic
 
www.myspace.com/dignanporch
 
http://twitter.com/DignanPorch
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dignan+Porch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.