Dignity can be:
1.A melodic power metal band.
2.A Dutch R&B girlgroup
3.A South-Korea boygroup

Dignity is a melodic power metal band which also have roots in classical hardrock from Austria and Sweden.

Dignity was founded in fall 2006 by drummer Roland Navratil and keyboarder Frank Pitters. At that time Roland was member of the band Edenbridge with whom he recorded five studio albums and one live album. Martin Mayr and John Boy Bastard completed the Dignity line up. Martin and Frank knew each other for years. They both played in the band Invictus and recorded a demo in 1999. In winter the band began working on the songs and finally recorded the first demos.

In April 2007 the songs for the album Project Destiny were selected and the band started to search a matching vocalist. Roland quit Edenbridge to focus on Dignity. In May the band started by recording drums, bass, and guitars at the WildOneStudio in Vienna. In the meantime they were rehearsing different vocalists but none of them seemed to fit the songs. At the end of the summer Martin finished his guitar studies at the university and focused on the band. The Columbian artist Felipe Machado Franco took care of the script, the cover, and the artwork for Project Destiny. In October, the band found in the Swedish singer Jake E the perfect vocalist. While Jake worked on the lyrics and the vocal lines, Frank improved the keyboard sounds.

In late January 2008, early February Jake E came to Vienna and recorded the vocals. In the end of February Roland and Frank went to Sweden to get the CD mixed by Jonas Kjellgren at the Black Lounge Studios. The mastering was done by Mika Jussila at the Finnvox Studio. In summer Dignity signed with Napalm a worldwide deal. The album Project Destiny was released at the end of August in Europe. North America and Japan followed in September and October the same year.

DIGNITY (디그니티) is a five member pre-debut boy group under PCS ENTERTAINMENT. The group consists of: Luo, Luke, Minseok, On and Hyeongjin. Their debut date is currently unknown.

www.dignityband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dignity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.