D.D.F was first formed through Martin and Nic culminating various ideas in 2003. Soon after this Mevs was asked to join the band and the first couple of songs were written with Hywel Williams on drums. During that year the original line-up was formed, then consisting of the two previous members (Mike Drew & Johnny Gardener). In early 2004 the band embarked on the first few gigs and a U.K tour took place shortly after the first record had been roughly written. Recording for the E.P started after these dates were completed, with the finished product being released through Cardiff-based label Staunch Records later that year.

After the departure of Mike in the summer of 2005 Dave Harries joined the band on bass, bringing a new, more technical playing element to the table. Since this time D.D.F have been working towards the release of a full-length album, which is now looking to reach fruition in late 2006. We recently parted ways with drummer Johnny Gardener after a discussion regarding the direction of the band. Due to already experiencing various setbacks with the album writing it was in our best interest to fill the position almost immediately. After trying out a few potentials we had in mind, it became certain that the drum-stool was to be filled by Luke Welsby. Writing is now back on track and the band are more focused than ever on releasing the new record.

Musically the aim of this band has, and will always be the same......to concentrate on a few elements, mainly technicality and diversity. We want to create music that can progress through many different sections within each song, while also being able to experiment with many different sounds and styles. As with any band we cite influences from various different areas, not only musically, but also most importantly on an ethical level. Independence is the key word. A mutual disrespect for corporate culture and a total appreciation for self control means that D.D.F is a D.I.Y band. Knowing that every goal was created through hard work and sincerity allows us to appreciate everything tenfold, and drives us forward as a band, as we believe that anything is achievable through perseverance and self belief.

Dignity Dies First have shared the stage with the likes of:

Sworn Enemy
Razor Crusade
100 Demons
Shai Hulud
Modern Life Is War
Comeback Kid
Bane
Necrophagist
Suicide File
Knuckledust
Cephalic Carnage
Darkest Hour
Throwdown
Caliban
Fear My Thoughts
Settle The Score
Liar
Stretch Armstrong
Walls Of Jericho
Terror
The Black Dahlia Murder
Donnybrook
Blacklisted
Chimaera
Parkway Drive
Job For a Cowboy
Deadlock
Converge
Send More Paramedics
Undying
Deadsoil
Dead To Fall
Rise and Fall
No Turning Back <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dignity+Dies+First">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.