There are 10 bands, 1 rapper, and 2 producers that go by the name Dilemma:

1) Dilemma is a Dutch/British alternative progressive rock band founded in the early 1990's. For several years the band disappeared from the public eye. But behind the scenes they have been working hard on their new studio album ‘Random Acts Of Liberation’. This gem has been mixed by Rich Mouser (Spock’s Beard, Transatlantic, Neal Morse) and was released in November 2018 via Butler Records/Music On Vinyl.

Dilemma consists of founder and keyboardist Robin Z, drummer Collin Leijenaar ( Neal Morse, Dave Bainbridge, Affector, Kayak)guitarist Paul Crezee and bass player Erik van der Vlis, who all where part of Dilemma since right after the release of debut album Imbroccata in 1995. Last but not least, British guitarist/vocalist/front man Dec Burke (Frost*, Audioplastik, Darwin’s Radio) joined Dilemma in 2017 to finish the recordings of the new album.   

2) Dilemma is a now-defunct Russian hardcore/metalcore band from Moscow.

3) Dilemma was founded in 10.09.1981 in Pforzheim. The Band was composed
of Diethelm Kröhl (git, voc), Bernd Kehle (git, voc), Hans-Jörg Faas
(dr, voc) and Tom Handtmann (synth, voc).

4) Dilemma was a thrash metal band formed in Adelaide, South Australia in 1989 and played numerous gigs, mainly at the New Century Hotel. Original line-up consisted of Jut & Damo Kalinowski, Alun  L & Lee D. Line-up changes were made over the years, and demo's recorded in a tin shed at Salisbury East, mainly Never Mind The Excuses featuring TV Game, Home Brand and Face Of Insanity. After a relocation down the road, Dilemma recruited Shane S  to add some technical precision to the tracks and recorded the demo Human Sickness. The band disbanded in 1993 as their current drummer couldnt commit so the decision was made to leave it be....Reunion shows are planned for 2010

5) .Dilemma is an EBM / hard minimalist electro group originally from Viersen, Germany, started in 1986 by Klaus Hahn and Christoph Schaller. http://www.myspace.com/dilemmaebm

6) Dilemma is a Danish rapper living in the city Nyborg.

Dilemma was irony, minimalistic tales about those little, nasty
abysses in everydays life.

7) Dilemma is also a band from Tain near Inverness in Scotland who has just released their album "Seasons Of Excess". Band members are Jason Riddell, Calum Hart and Lewis MacKenzie.
Visit their Myspace on http://www.myspace.com/dilemmamusic1  

8) Dilemma is Slovak alternative rock band from Košice. more details on www.dilemma.sk where it is also possible to download latest album for free

9) Dilemma is a chip tunes artist on the Irdial label.

10) Dilemma is a darkwave band from Athens, Greece. The band formed at 16th of August 2002, by long time musical partners Sotiris and Poppy.

Their common themes are urban alienation, self-journey, love-and-loss, metaphysics, irrational violence of the modern world, dreams, nothingness and nature's violation. But in a way that make sense.

DILEMMA presents their own angle through their musical stories, their condensed musical fiction. 
(taken from http://www.myspace.com/thedilemmaband)

11) Dilemma is a Turkish rock band, which released their first album "Nereye Kadar" in 2006.

12) DiLEMMA is a "rock-hop-electro" band formed in Los Angeles, California signed to Interscope/Rock Mafia. They are currently working on their debut project. More information can be found at http://www.facebook.com/DiLEMMAmusic

13) Dilemma is a Brighton-based Drum & Bass producer by the name of Piper Hewitt-Dudding. Her most recent EP, "Exit Stage Left" was released on July 17, 2020 on Soulvent Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dilemma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.