Dim Vision was formed in 2000 in Debrecen (under the name Dust) by Bence Suta, Máté Lukács, Goyo, Sebestyén Varga and Lajos Ványi. Their music can be defined best as death metal, but their influences include many other genres as well.

The band started writing songs already in the early periods, though they neither recorded nor published any of these first ideas. Their first demo, From Dust was recorded in December 2002 and received many pleasing reviews. Shortly thereafter, Ványi left the band and later became a member of Raventor, while the remaining four members of Dim Vision continued playing at full stretch with both Suta and Lukács assisting in Neochrome till the summer of 2005.

In 2004 the band started performing regularly all around Hungary with the support of Choose Your Path and thus, both bands set foot in the underground metal music scene of Hungary. Nevertheless, the most important event for the band in 2004 was the release of their long-awaited second demo, Aether. The three-song single shows the new path taken, the songs are much more complex and fast compared to the ones on From Dust, but despite the numerous promising reviews the band only made and gave away 150 copies of Aether (mostly for promotional purposes).

The year 2005 was even more significant for Dim Vision than the previous years, because it meant possibilities to take the bands reputation one step further. In practice this meant supporting Watch My Dying on their Klausztrofónia-tour and whats more, after a long term of preparation the recording of their first full-length album, The Epidermis. The recording period of the album lasted till December 2005 after which the tracks were edited by Goyo, engineered by Vee (Neochrome) and mastered by Attila Csatáry at Track Master Studio. In 2006 Dim Vision keeps on working, playing, touring with their debut full-lenght, "Epidermis". "Epidermis" released at 16th december in hungary."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dim+Vision">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.