Dim The Lights is the name of two bands:
1. A two piece indie/acoustic/rock band from UK.
http://www.myspace.com/dimthelightsdtl  
2. A four piece death metal/metal/experimental band from Lebanon, Pennsylvania, United States.
http://www.myspace.com/dimthelights

Dim The Lights (Lebanon, Pennsylvania, United States) played their last gig on Saturday June 7th 2008.

de – ter – mined [di-tur-mind] – adjective
1. inflexible; unfaltering; unwavering
2. decided; resolute; staunch
3. best describes the process that is, Dim the Lights

The process of Dim the Lights is one that began in early 2003 by founding members Damien Longenecker (vocals) and Ryan Schaeffer (bass). During that first year, they saw more members come and go than most other bands. What kept them going, however, was their desire to create original, uncompromising music.

After recruiting George Fava to fill lead-guitar duties in late 2004, they began to embark on their most ambitious musical exploration yet. Over the next six months, they went through multiple drummers before finding the right man, Tim Seifarth, to fill the rhythm section. Soon after, they released their demo, Destroy Everything, in 2005, which received many positive reviews for its “ranging vocals” (Metal Mayhem UK), “quick finger work” (Harm Magazine) and “creativity and complexity of tunes” (Kicked in the Face). As a result of many weekends on the road to promote their demo, the group developed a growing fan base throughout the Northeast. Things were going well for the group, but despite their early successes, one final bump in the road lie ahead. In January of 2006, just six months after creating a solid lineup, long time rhythm-guitarist, Dave Minnich quit the band. The loss turned out to be a blessing in disguise, for the group, because it made room for good friend, James Cox, to take over the needed guitar duties and allowed the band time to write even more original material for their upcoming, self-titled release.

The style of Dim the Light’s music has developed tremendously since its conception by constantly implementing new techniques and ideas while at the same time staying true to its metal roots. The result: highly structured and original music that pushes new boundaries and stands out among the mediocrity in metal today. Each member has very different influences ranging from Bob Dylan to At the Gates and it is those diverse influences that play a significant role in the writing process. One thing this band is not afraid to do is experiment, and that is apparent in their self-titled release.

This is a new beginning for the band and with it comes some of the best material to date- reason why the band chose a self-titled release. The six songs were recorded in April of 2006 at Aurora Studios in Lancaster, PA, by Carson Slovak, mixed by James Cox and mastered at Studio 4 in Philadelphia, PA by Grammy Award winning engineer Phil Nicolo. Despite the lengthy process of creating this EP, the payoff is superb audio, quality musicianship, and a guest vocal performance by Jonathan Hunt (Dead to Fall). Some call it power metal, thrash, progressive, death metal but rather than try to label it, the band encourages the listener to form his or her own opinion.

It seems as though all the pieces have finally come into place. Now, with their solid foundation, the machine known as Dim the Lights will spend the next few months touring and promoting themselves relentlessly, in hopes of being a new light in the metal world for all to hear. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dim+the+Lights">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.