1)  Robert Etheridge aka Dimension is a London-based drum & bass DJ/producer  who also co-owns Regal Records. Always musical, Etheridge learnt to play the piano from a young age and picked it up easily. Soon becoming bored of having lessons and learning other people's music, Robert soon started write his own songs instead of attending lessons.

However, it was at the age of 15 when Rob was first introduced to Fruity Loops that he began to understand what producing music involved. His first ever proper composition was a remix of 'The Prodigy - Voodoo People'. He had no idea what to call himself so he looked down at the name of his computer and it was a Dell Dimension - so he wrote it down as a Dimension remix and the name stuck.

After receiving Logic Pro as a gift, Robert has never looked back and with support from the likes of Danny Byrd, Stanza, UKF and releases lined up on labels such a TalkinBeatz, as well as BBC Radio 1 airplay, Dimension is ready to explode.

You can follow Dimension on Twitter and SoundCloud.

2) Dimension is a Japanese electric jazz group formed in Tokyo in 1992. The group comprises Takashi Masuzaki(Guitar), Akira Onozuka(Keyboards), Kazuki Katsuta(saxophone). DIMENSION released their first album, Le Mans, as TV Program for the 24 Hours of Le Mans soundtrack, in 1992.Then they has over 25 albums of original work in past 20 years, and performed at Tokyo Jazz Festival, Seoul Jazz Festival and more music festivals. All albums are highly regarded and win best jazz prize of Japanese jazz music magazine "ADLIB" many times. Also, they has played a lot of recordings and sessions as solo musician for other artists.
In November 2012, they released a compilation album, "Ballad", as 20th Anniversary. 

http://dimension-tokyo.jp/index.html



3) A trance producer named Borja, born in 1988 in Spain. Dimension has signed tracks on Armada, Vandit, Discover and Enhanced Recordings. http://www.myspace.com/trancedimension

4) Dimension is based in Denver, CO. founded by David Quicho & Mane Cabrales. 
The debut opus “UNIVERSAL” was released in 2002, being distributed worldwide by Nightmare Records, 
by 2007 the band released their second album called “EGO”, this one had a great success on the Prog/Metal scene making the band to step higher in it's career, sharing the stage with bands such as Evergrey, Anthrax, Pagan's Mind, Dokken, Shining, among others...
Actually, Dimension is about to release a double album, this being their 3rd one and called "REVOLUTION" to be released this fall 2014 through Nightmare Records.
https://www.facebook.com/Dimensionband
http://www.dimensionband.com/


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dimension">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.