There are two musical groups which go by Dimentia, a metal band and an experimental electronic musician based in the bay area of California, who can be found at www.myspace.com/dimentia23.  The following information refers to the metal band.

Formed in 2004, Dimentia is a brand new beginning for three former band mates: JF (Vocal – Lead Guitar), Rick (Rhythm and Lead Guitar) and Justin (Bass and Vocal), that already have worked together under the same roof, being part of Montreal’s industrial-metal band ‘’First Version’’. Over the following year songwriting would see this trio write new material that demanded a more technical and experienced drummer. Through a very clever add found online, Sam would become the fourth member this band was looking for. Now officially complete, the writing for the E.P. ‘’The Shadow’’ can begin. The first wave of song rapidly became obsolete because of the expertise of Sam that would give JF the freedom to bring the best riffs and strongest lead guitar this band had ever seen. The new material would be a whole lot more hard hitting and determined than ever. Along the same path, Dimentia would find its way toward a style they could call their own. You will find different influences from top metal song writer like Chuck Schuldiner (Death - R.I.P.), and many more that made metal as it is today: Dave Mustain, Dimebag Darrell (R.I.P.), Micheal Amott etc. We will see this band evolve into a fine tuned machine by having JF inspire himself by the most influential band contemporary metal would bring: Megadeth, Metallica, Pantera, Lamb of God, Slayer, Fear Factory … it is easy to feel the European influences from great metal acts like Arch enemy, In Flames and Nightwish. Using strong vocals and a Fear Factory rhythm like drum line; the performances of these guys will never leave any heavy-metal hardcore fan on their appetite and will surely make them call the encore. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dimentia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.