Dimentianon was created in January of 2002. The lineup included two founding members of The Forgotten .. vocalist, M and M. Weisbaum on drums. In addition to The Forgotten members J. Mroz (bass), G. Dominus (guitar), and J. Fogarazzo (of Rigor Sardonicous) (guitar). Their goal was to create a unique mixture of chaotic Black/Death,and Doom.

They started to work on material, and in the summer of 2002, put out a three-song rehearsal promo for their new album. This was strictly limited to 1,000 copies and sold out in weeks. Throughout the year, the band played high-profile shows with such acts as Arch Enemy, Enslaved, Hate Eternal, Incantation, Kreator, Cannibal Corpse, Dying Fetus.

During this time, M. Weisbaum decided to part ways with the band to pursue other interests but not before he helped the band finish recording Seven Suicides, which was released through Paragon Records on September 23, 2003. After much searching the band acquired new drummer R. Bohlman(Embracing Carpathian Mourning), whose debut show with the band was opening for Arch Enemy in August 2003.

After the 3rd full length cd Hossanas Novus Ordo Seclurum and split cd with Rigor Sardonicous came out, J. Fogarazzo (guitar) left the band to pursue other interests and keep on full time with Rigor Sardonicous. Some months later J. Mroz [bass] followed and played one last show with the band as his farewell show. The next day after the show R. Bohlman [drums] decided to leave. The live promo just released is the actual last live show with both Ryan and Jim. It also features 2 new tracks that will be on the next full length.

All three former members have already been re-pleaced. Salty Z. who is an ex-member of Frost from Hungary and is in a death metal band that he formed called Sectioned which also features M [Dimentianon] on vocals now handles the second guitar duties. Salty Z. plays on the live promo just released and it was his second live show with the band. Maureen Murphy who played bass with the band for quite awhile some years back and played on the bands first cd L'Aldila when they were still called The Forgotten returned on bass . And the line-up is rounded out with Pete Christopher on drums.

The band at this time would like to thank joe, jim, and ryan for the hard work they put into the band. It a was great ride [for the most part Golem]. Best of luck with your future endeavors. The Dawn still continues to approach as the pact has yet to be broken. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dimentianon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.