Dimholt was formed by Woundheir (vocals) and Asen (guitars) in 2003 in Burgas, Bulgaria. Together they start working on songs which later appear in the “Aegri Somnia” demo CD, released in 2007.

The band remains a duo until 2005 but then plans change as they start looking for full-time members in order to continue. Soon after that Rumen (guitars) joins the band and Dimholt finishes two new songs. A few months later the band finds a full time bass player, Yavor. In the fall of 2006 Dimholt starts actual rehearsing with the drums being overtaken by Stanimir who later becomes the band's drummer.

In 2007 the band finishes the recording of the “Aegri Somnia” demo. The CD is released in a limited number of copies – all of them sold out by now. Three years later, in 2010, the EP “Live Somnia” is released. The CD contains 2 old songs and live versions of 2 new songs.

Dimholt announces its first gig in 2009 as they are invited to join Serpentine Creation and Drevna.

In the following years the band plays alongside Vrani Volosa, Diabless (ex-Frozen Shit), Azzrakgar, The Revenge Project, Claymore, Eufobia, Dark Inversion, Prokyon, Act Of Grotesque, Alcophilia, Unhumanity, Necromancer, Envolter, Shambless, Belgarath, Bloodlines, Enthrallment, Impenitence, Mass Grave, Coprostasis, O.H., Savage Ravage and Feudistes. In 2010 Dimholt has the honor to be the opening act for the Spanish avantgard act Kathaarsys and in 2011 they play alongside Erevos from Greece. The same year also marks a visit to Serbia with 3 gigs there including local acts Bane, Tales Of Dark, Dream Epic, Toxic Trace and Defilement. 

The visit to Serbia comes as a result of an invitation from Zlabog Promotions who, after formal “negotiations” between the band and Nikola Vukobratovic, become the official management of Dimholt.

The band enters "SubZero Studio" in Sofia in the winter of 2012 to start recording their debut album entitled "Liberation Funeral". The work on the album takes more than a year and for the additional sound shaping and sound engineering the band falls back on the services of Thomas "TT" Tannenberger - guitar player, drummer and mastermind of Austrian black metal legends Abigor.

During the summer of 2013 the band hits their most important live event as they are selected as an opening act for British veterans Cradle Of Filth for a gig in Sofia.

In April 2014 the band was chosen to be supporting act for Rotting Christ visit in Sofia.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dimholt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.