BIO:
 DIMINISHMENT (Noun)
a. To make smaller or less or to cause to appear so. b. To detract from the authority, reputation, or prestige of. C. To detract from the authority, reputation of light, so that only the horrors and utter darkness is realized and felt by the music evoking dread, mystery and despair through the movements of each piece.

DIMINISHMENT was formed in mid 2008 in the Tri-state Area USA, and as a 4 piece set out to record an black metal masterwork in the old school tradition.
At the formation DIMINISHMENT Consisted of: Heretic on Vocals (earlier in What Weapons Bring War, Angelus Infernus, Phasmatis, Noktorn), Ixion on Vocals (earlier in NatterVrede as Vocalist which released several EP’s, and albums in US, and compilation on Soyuz Records, Russia.) Cathaoir on Guitars, Drums, Effects (Earlier in Noktorn, Phasmatis, NatterVrede whom released EPs, Albums on Ferox Inc, UK, Ancient Records USA, and Soyuz Records Russia.) Tichondrius (earlier as Bassist/ Vocalist in Tyrant, Ipsissimus whom released EPs, and Albums.) ,All whom have received reviews and constant radio play worldwide in the underground.

Cathaoir recorded and released the first EP Entitled “Diminishment” in the winter of 2008 as a strict limited edition, which favored well and garnished the listeners with their first dose of eternal Diminishment.

Later on in the fall of 2008, the four went forth in blasphemy into infernal masquerades of the long process of recording the debut album “Brimstone Demise.” Half way through the recording this debut album, both Ixion and Heretic opted to end their diminishment and pursue another path. With Tichondrius covering all the bass guitars and vocals, and Cathaoir handling all the rhythm and lead guitars, ambient effects and drums, the long invocation finally took place.

“Brimstone Demise” consisting of 8 tracks of Enigmatic Infernal Ambiance was released on Ancient Records USA. with the distribution being through the likes of Cdbaby. Napster, Rhapsody, Itunes, Tradebit, Shockhound and more in May of 2009 as mp3s.

But the story does not end here! Leaving the wake of brooding diminishment the two-piece with ambitions realized now continued. The favorite track of Mallus Ater will be  used on several compilations in Canada, and in South America. With reviews and interview requests pouring into the well of human destitution, the rise of eternal diminishment now continues with greater force.

DIMINISHMENT is first and foremost a studio band/project whom has currently released their debut album entitled “Brimstone Demise.”
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Diminishment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.