Dingir Xul started a cold weekend in Norway when Christoffer N. (Gothic Cthulhu) and Tommy N. (Death Cthulhu, now known as Lord Capricorn) needed to create something different because their drummer in Håvamål never had the oppertunity to practice at this time. So it all started with a song created with Håvamål firstly just by jamming. The song was named "Cthulhu Arise" for several reasons. They were quite tierd of waiting and waiting for the drummer for practice, and the prosess there were going quite slow. But they both wants to continue it because they really want to have it more or less as a side project. Dingir Xul was original going to be a side project for them, but due to Håvamål's name it could not be followed up with a second cd.

Dingir Xul are supposed to play all kind of music. They've already done much different, but they have been quite stuck with Gothic metal and Black Metal and so you'll hear when you listen to the songs. But they are really just a band that wants to experiment with different types of music.

After finishing "Cthulhu Arise", which were more or less finished with Håvamål, they continued on a song called "The Red Tear" which they both had worked on long before Håvamål and they really felt like continuing this song because of it's content and nice lyric. And then continued with 5 other songs with titles like "Tåkelandet"(Fog Country), "Nothing" and "Trollfest" they are continuing to do different things in both their main language and in English.

In the beginning of 2003 they released their first demo called "Cthulhu Arise". It got very well reviews from net magazines and other people who listened to it. It contained 9 tracks with their own unique "trollish" sound.

At this moment Dingir Xul is working on material for a new demo which hopefully will be released around the same time as their first demo was. Let's just wait and see... if we dare... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dingir+Xul">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.