Alejandra Iglesias aka Dinky was born in Santiago de Chile
Her family named her "Dinky"(which has no meaning in Spanish) before she even saw the light of the world. Thanks to her mother and a very musical family she grew up playing the piano and was exposed to a lot of music. Since an early age she has explored several art forms and for many years trained as a professional dancer and choreographer. She danced for Peter Gabriels' concert when she was only 16 and always felt comfortable on stage. As a teenager, Dinky grew up listening to bands like Cocteau Twins, DepecheMode, Prince and The Cramps as well as classical and contemporary composers like Brian Eno and Eric Satie. She always found herself attracted to dissonance in music composition and today many of her pieces are based on that. In the mid nineties she was introduced to electronic music, thanks to her sister who was living in Berlin. Artists like Plastikman, Aphex Twin and Carl Craig where the first ones to fill her record collection.

It was round 1994 in Santiago that Dinky met Ricardo Villalobos, Dandy Jack, Atom heart, Luciano and other musicians that where related to Chile. Listening to them she got deeply fascinated by this movement and decided to do something about it. She was only a teenager when she first learned how to mix records but nevertheless, was soon being exposed to big crowds in Chile sharing line ups with the musicians mentioned above. Her first visit to Berlin in 1994 gave her the chance to experience clubs like E werk and Tresor and also to listen to great djs like Jeff Mills, Hell and Stacey Pullen. This gave her great inspiration from the start. In the late nineties, Dinky moved from Santiago to Manhattan to join the Martha Graham School of Contemporary dance. As well as being involved in the Dance scene she also got into the NY Club scene, discovering American house and Detroit techno, polishing her DJing and making a name in the underground scene. She was a regular at the famous Body and Soul house parties as well as Nasa techno raves and Twilo. In 1996 Dinky made her first visit to a recording studio where she composed a track together with her friend Jorge Gonzales, a Chilean pop star with whom she is still working now. A couple of years after that, she decided to write her own music. Whilst only 23 and with just an MPC 2000 she composed her first tracks and soon after was signed to the label Traum Schaallplatten from Cologne for whom she recorded many singles and an album. Her music, minimalist and hypnotic received a warm welcome from the German press, reaching charts of De Bug and Groove.
.
In 2003 dinky finished her second concept album Black Cabaret, around the same time she was forced to leave the US due to the post 9/11 visa regulations.
Soon after and with a 6-month tour offer in hand she made the decision to move to Berlin. 

In 2005 Dinky signed to Sven Vaeth's imprint Cocoon records, with her massive hit "Acid in my Fridge" burning dance floors all over the world. The single became a top seller and was rapidly signed to international compilations like Ministry of Sound and Fabric and featured in dozens of mix compilations 

Due to this success Vaeth asked Dinky to be part of the Amnesia Ibiza campaign alongside himself, Miss Kittin, and Villalobos and also asked her to record the Cocoon Mix CD for the 6th season; a mix that for many is considered timeless.
That year, Dinky played the opening party with Vaeth and remained a resident for the season, achieving great popularity and respect worldwide.
:
Dinky is not only a DJ but she also played Live for many years.
She has played Live at international festivals like Sonar, Ten days off, Sonne Mond Stern, Mutek and has DJed in clubs like The End, Cocoon, Dc10 and Amnesia to name a few. Dinky is also supported by the Circo Loco crew and has a large fan base in Italy and Ibiza. She currently has a residency at the famous Berlin club "Panorama Bar" and has recently founded her label Horizontal that has been getting lots of fans and has been licensed by top labels and Djs.
Dinky in the mix can move underground clubs to massive arenas, she is gifted with musicality, fine mixing skills and great sensitivity. Her style remains fresh and exciting without limiting herself to only one genre. Forget minimal, techno or house, she just plays quality underground music.

2007 was Dinky's busiest year till date, traveling to places as far flung as Japan, Russia, Scandinavia and even Indonesia. One of the highlights of hers from last year was her set for the closing night at DC10 for Circo Loco in Ibiza, where she and Luciano played the last set. Last year Dinky also mixed the "Get Lost 3" mix CD for Crosstown Rebels (UK) which got massive attention from the media and excellent reviews all over.

And some news…..
Dinky has just finished mixing a compilation for the Japanese imprint P -vine which will be out only in Japan this August.
The compilation features exclusive tracks from her label Horizontal as well as some of her upcoming album material..
She has also finally finished recording her 3d album artist which will be out this October in the amazing Vakant Label (Berlin),home of Onur Ozur , Mathias Kaden and Alex Smoke amongst others.
A single 12" featuring Big Bully will introduce her mysterious album to the public this coming June 2008.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dinky">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.