There are seven bands called Dirge :  

1. Dirge is a French band formed in 1994 in Paris, France. From the industrial metal genre that exploded in the first part of the 90s, the band slowly evolved toward a more atmospheric and progressive form of metal, related to post-metal bands such as Neurosis, Isis, and Cult of Luna.

Bandcamp | Website

2. Five piece riff worshippers from Pune, India. Formed in January 2014, strongly influenced by doom metal with the likes of sludge and stoner. Bands like Candlemass, Black Sabbath, Eyehategod, Trouble, Sleep, Melvins, Autopsy, Acid bath etc heavily influence the band's sound. This makes the music of Dirge to be maddeningly sludge driven doom with ‘10000 ton’ heavy riffs, fuzzed out basslines with screaming angst-ridden vocals.
Recently released their début album, the lyrics are based on a Historic-myth-fiction about the resurgence of the violent Maya written by their bass distorter.
The band's current lineup consists of Tabish Khidir on vocals, Ashish Dharkar and Varun Patil on guitars, Harshad Bhagwat on bass and Prathamesh Lele on drums. 
They played their debut gig on 12th July at 'Dawn of the legion', Pune which was followed by a couple of home gigs and their first outstation gig in the city of Bangalore as a part of their first mini-tour 'Worship the Riff'.

Bandcamp

3. Dirge was a crossover, thrash metal and hardcore punk band in the late 80's from New Jersey.     

4. Dirge was formed in September 2001 by Yann Lafosse (guitars, vocals), Benjamin Daubeuf (drums, programming) and Mirjam Tautz (violin, cello). Their music is influenced by the post-rock of Mogwaï and Godspeed You! Black Emperor, by the lo-fi of Arab Strap and the lyricism of Tinderticks.

http://strangesilence.free.fr

5. Dirge is a progressive rock band from Cairo, Egypt. 

6. Dirge was a four-piece band from Vienna, Austria. The most recent formation includes Lars Dankert on the drums and Thierry Letouze on the bass and vocals. Their single This Is My Fashion Statement (Now Show Me Yours) was released in October 2006. As of 2008, they have changed their name to Heroes for a Night.

7. Dirge was formed in early 1983 in Leicester, United Kingdom from the remains of two local bands - Vile Bodies and Rotting Corpse.

The band have reformed on a couple of occasions in the 90's and even more recently by Gilb and Mick which took in a few concerts with Drongos for Europe, and Icons of Filth in Birmingham, Nottingham, and Leicester, United Kingdom.

http://www.myspace.com/dirgeleicesteruk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dirge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.