Forming in 2007 by Shaun Glass and vocalist Jeremy “Jerms” Genske, Dirge Within immediately began their domination of the competitive heavy music scene, making a name for themselves through extensive touring, earning rave reviews from the press and public alike, while hitting the road with metal luminaries like Trivium, Fear Factory, Static X, Devildriver, Whitechapel, Gwar, Kittie, 36 Crazyfists, and Nonpoint, and appearing on the Chicago stop of the 2009 MAYHEM tour. 
Following up their acclaimed debut Force Fed Lies, which drew rave reviews in the pages of Revolver, AP, Rocksound and Metal Hammer (UK), and features the singles “Forever The Martyr”, and “Confession”, which became staples on Sirius XM and various hard music radio outlets, and even made their way as playable tracks for the popular video game Rock Band. Dirge issued a three song EP titled Absolution, in August, giving fans a taste of what’s to come from their forthcoming sophomore release.
In stores April 10 via THC/Rocket Science/RED, There Will Be Blood showcases what fans of Dirge Within are already familiar with; powerful grooves, strong hooks and punishing guitar riffs, with an evolved songwriting and technical prowess far beyond its predecessor .
Says vocalist Genske, “The songs are heavier, smarter, and more melodic in parts. Some are even a little slower! There were no rules when we were writing.. at all. No holds barred. Whatever came out, came out. And I think it's gonna make a really good, well-rounded Metal album."
Produced by the band, with Destrophy frontman Ari Mihalopoulos, Blood delivers as promised, with standout tracks like “Memories”, “As We Prey”, “Vultures”, and “There Will Be Blood”, building on the rock solid foundation Dirge has already laid. With the recent addition of drummer Frankie Harchut and guitarist Chuck Wepfer, Blood is set to pick up where their debut left off, as a pummeling slab of melodic, modern Metal. 
Dirge will hit the road in Spring to support Blood, and the first single “Memories” has already started to work its way onto Hard Rock playlists throughout the country
. 
“I’ve seen these guys live and they kill! The new tracks I’ve heard are awesome and will not disappoint!!! HELLYEAH!!” - Vinnie Paul (Hellyeah, Pantera)


Dirge Within Is:
Jeremy "Jerms" Genske - Vocals
Shaun Glass - Guitar 
Chuck Wepfer Lead Guitar
Jeff Paulick-Bass
Frankie Harchut- Drums 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dirge+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.