Artist: Dirty Black" 
Birthplace: Hickory N.C. (Catawba County) 
Raised: Morningside Homes, Greensboro, N.C. 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Dirty Black writes and arranges all lyrics and featured vocals. 
He has recorded with individuals such as (producer) "Ski" from Roc-A-Bloc/Now City and MC Kwiss (North Carolina). 
Holds six years of mic/stage experience and has performed before crowds in excess of 15 thousand patrons. 


Performed on stages with Jay Z (Jam FM Concert, Cologne, Germany), Outkast and Goddie Mobb (Stuttgart Germany), 
Naughty by Nature, O.C. and Camp Lo (Songhai 
Street Festival), Blahzay Blahzay, Group Home and Diamond Dee along with a host of top trusted names in the German 
Hip Hop industry. 
Partially responsible for shaping the German Hip Hop underground, destroying artists in numerous MC battles. 


Additional Information: 

Dirty Black is a one-man army. C.E.O, club owner, rapper, producer, graphic designer, and a shrewd businessman. Dirty has a knack for surrounding himself with and using the energy around him. Taking a bad situation and making something good out of it, now that’s Dirty.

Since he was little growing up in the hood many troubles plagued him and his family being themselves victims of poverty and the discrimination that blacks face daily in the south. But being the warrior that he is that never stopped dirty from pursuing his dream. He was always a musical child beating on pots and pans and making up his own songs. He took an early interest in the guitar and learned to play on his own since he couldn’t afford lessons. After his High School graduation, Dirty Black served in the US Army where he did a tour on the front line in Iraq not only serve his country but to get make a better life for himself. For which he received two bronze stars for meritorious service. After going to war and deciding that life was too precious to waste not doing what you like. His life was changed forever. Since that day the true essence of Dirty Black was born. Dirty belongs to the world. When you listen to his music you can feel the hurt, pain and suffering of the hood. But you can also hear the lighter side of things because laughter and family is what gets us all through at the end of the day. Take no shorts from no one because his life was now worth so much to so many. So he was now on a mission to be heard and to be the mouth peace for injustice and mistreatment of minorities. Having several confrontations with the skinheads and various other hate groups’ violence began to spread throughout Dirty’s life. This was a dark period of music for him. Very violent and rage driven but true and it spoke to the hearts of its listeners. This unique sound changed the way German and other euro rappers produced their music as well as what they spoke about on it. After the Germans decided that the nazi driven skinheads were not the image that they wanted to portray as a country. They changed their tune about accepting American artists into their country and began to extend dirty the same courtesies that they gave the other artists. Radio interviews, opening spots at concert halls, news and magazine coverage. All of witch didn’t exist for him in the early years. Having fought the long hard fight and enjoying the outcome dirty let his guard down and fell in love with the mother of his first child. Now with new insight and a new reason for pursuing his career dirty set off again to continue to make history. 
Now that he had his head back in the game his lyrics were much sharper and more vivid than ever but the violent undertones had settled. Having a child had humbled Dirty to the point of needing to give more back. 
But this time not just power to the people but more power to god. This eased his heart and he felt free to peruse the responsibilities of a multi million-dollar company. It was time to start a legacy for his children and family. To break the cycle of poverty dirty remained in Europe to raise his family and pursue his empire.


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Dirty Black is what you would call a true entrepreneur he has traveled to over 19 different countries and has Preformed through out Europe 
in 2006 he released his guns and butta mix tape. It was one of the hottest mix tapes in the street at that time. He also released his album/dvd young gifted and black simultaneously.

In 2007 Dirty formed the label Intelec Records with partners. He is currently the C.E.O of Crash and Burn 
Entertainment with new partner D boy of empty stomax, and currently runs his own nightclub called Club Cappo in Stuttgart Germany. Every week he personally MCs and mingles with all his customers / Fans. Always playing the hottest cuts and keeping it hood by passing out bottles of champagne like real ballers do its no wonder why dirty is loved by so many. Need less to say Cappo is one of the hottest spots in Southern Germany. 

The Crash and Burn Entertainment Company provides top of the line production, full studio with Mixing and mastering capabilities and state of the art graphic design. It also includes a fierce team of recording Artists ranging from Hip Hop to Rock.


To best describe Dirty Black music, Picture if you will a hot summer night. Police sirens wailing in the 
Distance, Lil man on the corner trying to make a living Pushin weight, the smell of piss in a dark alleyway. That is the best way to sum up Dirty Blacks music. It is a true representation of the urban American street Experience

Currently Black is about to release his fuck you pay me series of mix tapes starting of course with Vol 1 Coming this spring. 
Many say that gangster rap is negative music however dirty provides a safe looking glass into the life of urban Youth if you close your eyes and 
Listen you can actually smell the kush as it burn ever so slowly as the yellow smoke fills your brain Dirty is the street and the streets are dirty 

Quote “success comes from your own effort you can’t shoot the messenger for reporting the daily activities as 
African Americans living in the hood “

Look out in fall of 2008 Dirty Blacks new album absolute power.


And look out for Dirty Black in a theater, magazine or television near you.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dirty+Black">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.