There are multiple artists called Dis, including a Milwaukee trio, a Japanese Visual Kei band, a Bulgarian hip hop duo, several metal bands and an experimental/dark ambient trio from New Zealand. 

1. The Bulgarian DiS was formed in  2007 by rappers DenYo & Sensei. 

2. Milwaukee's Dis began in 1992 and continued to make math rock til 1996. They released the album Small Fry Session 1&2 (in 1992) and M 386 .D57 1994 (in 1994). The band blew up in the studio during the sessions for "The Historically Troubled Third Album" making that record's title very appropriate.

3. The Japanese Visual Kei band was formed in summer 2006 and had the first live at Takadanobaba AREA where their first CD was distributed. The band consists of vocal 幻希 (genki), first guitarist 躯 (mukuro), second guitarist 百 (momo) and drummer 鈴音 (suzune). For more information please visit their official HOMEPAGE 

4. Dis is a Dutch progressive Metal band from Utrecht. The music of the band can be described as progressive, symphonic metal with a characteristic violin sound.  Because of a broad musical interest in the group, Dis often experiments with elements from different styles of music. Dis was founded in early 2000 by brothers Ben (violin, vocals) and Daniël Mathot (guitar). After a year of collaborating with several musicians the perfect drummer was found in Remco Menting in March 2001. His bass-playing brother Roel joined in September that year but decided to leave in October 2003. Tim Numan took his place in 2004.

5. DiS is a hip-hop side project of the Japanese alternative idol group BiS. 

6. DIS from the USA is a one-man band by Aaron Schilling. The music can be described as high-speed progressive black/death metal. More info here.

7. DiS were the Christchurch-based trio of Justine Sharp, David Khan and Peter Wright. DiS de-emphasized the rock overtones and use of rhythm associated with their previous projects, in favour of dense, drifting soundscapes concerned with the nature of elemental force, metamorphosis & human ritual. They released two albums, Earth/Clasm (1999) and Inferno (2000), on the kRkRkRk label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.