1)   ‘Disconsolate’ was formed by a couple of friends back in 1998 and started as a doomband. After a few changes in personnel they played a couple of local gigs and recorded a demo called ‘Dreaming Longing Dying’. On this demo ‘Disconsolate’ combined slow doom parts with faster death metal parts. This demo got them some new gigs with bands like ‘Reborn’, ‘Orphanage’ and German ‘Dew-Scented’. During these gigs they recorded some live material which they released on a live demo called ‘Live @ Your Own Risk’. During this period the band gained a lot of experience and started to play a bit faster and more technical. The style of the band shifted a little from doom metal to doom/death metal.

In 2003 the band came into contact with manager Erik Prins of MAM Agency and he put together a package called ‘Metal Blast’. This package contained ‘Disconsolate’, ‘Constant Paranoia’ and ‘Nepenthe’. During 2003 and 2004 these bands played all over Holland including the venues ‘013 – Tilburg’ and ‘Baroeg – Rotterdam’

May 2004 ‘Disconsolate’ presented their new MCD ‘Crimson Pleasure’. This MCD contains 5 old school death metal songs and give a good idea of the type of music ‘Disconsolate’ now plays. The MCD was praised by national and international e-zines. Below some excerpts of reviews can be read.
Zwaremetalen.com: “This band has a lot of talent and it shows on this demo”
Birkhoffblast.nl: “This is one of the best demo’s i’ve heard this year”
Lord of Metal: “This release demonstrates that the Netherlands still holds enough talent to provide those old school-death addicts with bands they can enjoy.”
Vampire Magazine: “It's catchy, it has groove, sometimes it's even a bit technical and most important it makes my head bang.”

Early 2005 the song ‘Promised Land’ of the MCD was selected for the compilation CD ‘Blown To Pieces 3’ by Fearsome Records. This compilation CD contains 20 unsigned underground metal bands from all over the world. In january the band also won the band contest ‘Metal Massacre’ which allows them to play at a small festival in june 2005.

Now, ‘Disconsolate’ plays as much as the can in small venues, large venues and festivals. This way they hope to reach a bigger audience. ‘Disconsolate’ is influenced by bands like Carcass, My Dying Bride, Obituary and Suffocation.

2)   'Disconsolate' - melodic death-metal band from Slovakia founded in 2008 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disconsolate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.