DISCERN arrived in the death metal underground in 1999, shocking new listeners and seasoned death veterans alike, with the blunt force trauma of a surprisingly huge sounding project-band with the independently released, “ Revive And Rebuke.”. The huge sound of DISCERN is led by drummer, vocalist, guitarist, bassist, songwriter, and founder Billy Fraser, a one-man instrument machine. DISCERN is known for blasting drumbeats, blood-curdling vocals, huge guitar tone, and thunderous bass that define their blues-laced, pure death metal sound. . “Revive and Rebuke” was met with praises and favoritism: “ how inventive he ( DISCERN ) is with writing trendless death metal,”-Worm Gear “DISCERN is living proof, steamrolling over your weak s**t with more brutality and biting peril than any signed American DM band you could think of!”-Promethean Crusade With the new DISCERN release, “To Praise With Persecution”, all lovers of pure and unadulterated extreme metal will be reminded that DISCERN is worthy of all praise for pure death. The new full length of 11 tracks of metallic destruction, combine once again, songs dripping with catchiness and substance, with the blues laced death/thrash attack that DISCERN is known for. 

 DISCERN borders onto a different realm than conventional death metal bands cease to enter or strive to go against concerning the lyrical tyranny. The lyrical message of DISCERN focuses on Christ and the goodness of Him and God’s Word, quite different than the usual spewing of killing, torture, and blasphemy found in other bands. “ Being a believer, I can only think of telling of the fullness of Christ and the power and salvation that comes from a relationship with Him thru the music I create.” The lead guitar work on “To Praise With Persecution” is handled by Rick Hunter-Martinez. (SOLDIER, REGIME) He is currently fronting his own band, the melodic metal wonder WALK THE SKY. Hunter-Martinez’s neoclassical lead work, influenced by Yngwie Malmsteen, Uli Roth, and Randy Rhoads is skillfully executed throughout the brutal attack of DISCERN’S music. This creative songwriting advancement from the previous album to the massive production on “To Praise With Persecution” was captured by the use of two of the top recording studios in Texas: Maximedia and Nomad Studios Mixing and mastering for this death metal work of art was graced by Sterling Winfield ( PANTERA, KING DIAMOND, DAMAGEPLAN ), showing that “ To Praise With Persecution “ will distance itself from all other underground releases and rise to the top, being placed alongside the death metal elite.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DISCERN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.