Based out of Dedham, MA, Discreate is a metal band incorporating elements from classic thrash into a modern based sound. Their new full-length CD, Absent of Light, is out and available now.

The seeds of Discreate were planted back in the fall of 2000 when Alex Baldman and Jon Morency got together to jam while both were in other bands. That first jam produced all of the music of the song that would become “System Soul”. Over the next few weeks, their collaboration resulted in the framework of future songs, with Jon then laying down drums for each. Realizing that they shared a vision of everything they wanted to hear in a modern metal band, one that combined all of the elements of the metal music they grew up listening to, the “project” became a full-time reality. Guitarist Steve Fry (of Blistered Earth, Alex’s other band) agreed to play drums, and Peter Rutcho (Graveheart/Frozen/Vomitron/Crotalus) joined on to play bass. Vocalist Kenny Benda, who had previously laid down some vocals for Alex over a school recording project version of “System Soul”, was added to the group to compliment the music with power and melodic vocals.

Now completely formed, Discreate set out to make a name for themselves. In 2002, a self-titled 4-song demo was recorded and released. The band played a few shows and started to build a buzz as their demo made its way around the area. Unfortunately, despite positive reviews and a growing fanbase, the band could not ride the momentum for too long. Steve left to concentrate on guitar duties in his main band, leaving the drummer seat vacant. The demo stayed in circulation but the band was at a standstill while they looked for someone who could fill the role. In the spring of 2004, after a year of relative inactivity, the band chose to temporarily alter their lineup in hopes that more shows to support the demo would aid them in their search of a drummer. Jon took over drumming duties, leaving Alex to be the band’s sole guitarist. With Peter Rutcho tied up in various other musical projects, Eric Wolfenden joined the fold to play bass. The newly reformed quartet then proceeded to reclaim their place as one of Massachusetts’ up-and-coming metal bands. Though missing the two-guitar attack that the group was formed on, the live performances were still able to showcase the power and fury that lay at the core of Discreate. Having felt that their 2002 demo had done all it could do for them, the band decided to return to the studio and record a full-length CD. Still without a permanent drummer, Jon laid down all the drums on the CD as well as provided his normal guitar duties. After a year and a half of time spent, the result is Absent of Light, a 14-track thrash metal assault with the four original songs from their 2002 demo re-recorded and ten “new” songs. If you have seen Discreate live before, you will recognize most, if not all, of the songs. If you haven’t, then get ready, because now fully armed with their album, Discreate is planning on making their name known in the Massachusetts and world metal community. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Discreate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.