The progressive rock-metal band Disenchant was formed in 2000 and broke up in 2007.

The band went through many substitutions and the line up before the break up was,

M. Serkan Bilgi – Drums
Ali Ozen – Guitars & Vocals
Ilker Tekbasaran – Keyboards & Vocals
Ozgur Turkekul – Guitars
Armagan Umut – Bass

The other notable former members are

Burç Benli (Bass)
Anıl Yiğit Filiz (Bass)
Aykut Bozalan (Vocals)
Sercan Şay (Bass)
Burak Ordu (Vocals)

They published their first EP, Dilemma, in 2004. Until that time the band had covered the classics of Progressive Metal giants like Dream Theater, Tool, Pain of Salvation etc. The band still counts as the most technically skilled and successfull band in Turkiye, when it comes to these names.

After the positive reactions coming to their EP Dilemma, the band had speed up the composing the new songs for the debut album. 

They entered the studio for recording the first album in September 2006. They recorded “Minds Corrupted” in ATM Studios, one of the best studios in Turkiye with Alp Turaç (who is also the official representer of Sterling Sound Mastering )  and Erim Arkman. After recording the album and mixing sessions, the recordings mastered in New York City, Sterling Sound by Leon Zervos. We can remember Mr. Zervos’ name from mastering highly known records like, Dream Theater’s Once in a LiveTime, again Dream Theater’s Falling into Infinity, Liquid Tension Experiment’s LTE I, Avril Lavigne’s Under My Skin etc.

The albums’s artwork is made by GroundFrost (Shelley Bergen and Antti Isosomppi) who worked in design projects for popular names like Black Eyed Peas, John Legend, The Killers, Kanye West and more unpopular ones like God Forbid, Coil of Sihn, Symbiontic, Unwrap, Fragments of Unbecoming etc.

Band broke up in late 2007 due to personal problems, the recorded album was never released officially, although the promotional copy can be found on the internet. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disenchant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.