1. Disgusted is a brutal death band from Vietnam.

In the middle of 2007, Hoang took part in a local melodic death metal band in which Trung had been playing the role of an accord guitarist. Everything was fine until the drummer was messed up and left the band in the summer. Then, Trung and all other members began seeking a new drummer and finally he found An, a crazy man had just got out of the mental hospital for 1 year ! After recovering his health and spirit, that fucking old man reminded himself of the golden years when he still rocked and played metal ! Then the invitation was accepted and An also joined that melodic metal band. 

It's so amazing, that the two new members and Trung didn’t feel satisfied with the music style of the band. They thought that it's so weak and not strong enough to make them crazy. So they all left and formed a new band. Simply, DISGUSTED was born.
At first, the band started with 3 members only: An - drum, Trung - Vocal/guitar, Hoang - bass. Later, Trung remembered a fucking guy who had told him about his self-recorded death metal demo. Next, Trung began paying attention to that demo and hearing it again and again. After that, Trung told the band about all this stuff and they decided to invite Toan to join their DISGUSTED. Toan was very happy when he received the invitation to play in a death metal band, so very simply, Toan agreed to joined DISGUSTED ! 

After a few months focus on composing, practicing, playing, covering, recording,…DISGUSTED introduced their debut-album named Chapter I : In The Name Of The Death. They're now considered the most crazy and potential brutal death metal band in Vietnam.

With the kindly invitation and support from Mulligore, DISGUSTED have signed up into Mulligore Record on 13th November, 2007.

After that, DISGUSTED released a new split album which gets the presence of the 3 underground metal bands along the country. With this split album, we want to create a close relationship between those young metal bands and looking forward to an unprecedented stuff. This split album would include : BLACK WOLF (Da Nang City), DISGUSTED (Ho Chi Minh City), BLACK INFINITY (HCMC-USA). In this split album, each band will present their 2 new songs, especially, it will provide you with a bonus video track from BLACK INFINITY.

2. Punk band from France. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disgusted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.