There are 14 artists with the name Disgust:

1) Disgust was a d-beat punk band from Oxford U.K. who was heavily influenced by Discharge. The band featured ex-members of Extreme Noise Terror and guitarist Würzel from Motörhead. Their songs displayed extreme leftist and anarchist views and their artwork was often highly graphic photographs of war, massacres or the destitute effects of poverty. They've put out three albums, Brutality Of War on Earache Records (1993), A World Of No Beauty on Nuclear Blast (1996), and Horror Of It All on Crimes Against Humanity (2002)

2) Disgust is a raw Crust / D-Beat band from Japan. They have released several cd's, 7' , participated on Agathocles tribute album and still continue to do what they know best, play brutal and catchy crust punk. Latest release was split cd with UK based political d beat crust band Meinhof on infamous MCR Company. 

3) Disgust is a Brutal death metal band from Cambridge, Ontario, Canada.
They have 5 releases in total; Hear the Bones Crack (demo, 2004), Years of Torment (Full-length, 2004), Bleed the Gemini (split with Inveigh), 2005, Slicing and Bleeding Until the Bones Crack (compilation, 2006).
The band released their latest album, "Infinite Obliteration," December 3rd, 2011; featuring artwork by the legendary artist, Tony Koehl.
Vocalist Brian Figueiredo is also guitarist in slam metal band Sewer.

4) Disgust is a thrashy hardcore punk band from Holland. They released one EP and two demo tapes in the 80s & a full length entitled "Flashback To Trash Back..." on Noise and Distortion Records in 2006. Official Myspace

5) Disgust is a recent noise / power electronics unit headed by Mack Chami (Koufar).

6) Disgust was a Death metal band from Poland.

7) Disgust is a Mexican Death Metal band.

8) Disgust  is a Deathgrind band from Japan.

9) Disgust  was a German death metal band.

10) Disgust is a death metal band from France.

11) Disgust is a Death Metal band from Toledo, Ohio, USA. They formed in 1991 and released a demo in 1993 called "Ancient Hatred." They later changed their name to  Ahriman .

12) Disgust Is the name of a British Dubstep producer (aka Dubskank) with a unique sound of extremely heavy basses and chilled out, trippy beats and vibes.

13) Disgust Detroit had a skinner band called Disgust in the late 80s.

14) Disgust is an experimental/blackened noise project from Grand Rapids, MI. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disgust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.