Hard, melodic and straight to the point! Disintegrate, from the north of Holland, has a definite preference for well-balanced arrangements and raw, energetic vocal lines, nicely served with a feisty death metal-sauce. Every musician in Disintegrate has the freedom to develop his skills and show his musical prowess, thus creating a grooving mixture of aggression and melody.

The gentlemen of Disintegrate are no strangers to metal! Co-founders Jos Hindriks and Leo van Leijen worked together in the thrash metal band The Conjuring, while bass player Rob Knol supplied the low end to several bands, like e.g. Morblast. Danny Boonstra used to be the drummer for the progressive band Equation, but uses his aggressive vocals and plays the keyboard for Disintegrate.

Disintegrate was founded mid-June 2005 by Leo van Leijen, Danny Boonstra and Jos Hindriks after the split of the band The Conjuring. Immediately, the three musicians started to write new music. During this time Leo van Leijen played bass guitar, as this was the instrument he played with The Conjuring. After adding Rob Knol to the collective, Leo switched instruments and now fully focuses his talent on the guitar. In the second half of 2006, Disintegrate was strengthened even more with the addition of drummer Henk ter Heegde.

In early 2007, Henk ter Heegde left Disintegrate for personal reasons. With several confirmed shows, this presented a problem. Drumming duties during those shows were handled by Adriaan Groffen of Escadron, who did an excellent job. In 2008, drummer Douwe Talma of Enraged stepped in for a couple of shows, and showed his excellent skills on stage. Soon after, devout Iron Maiden-fan Joran Dijkstra became the new drummer for Disintegrate.

In February 2009, Disintegrate and Rob Knol parted ways shortly before the release of the MCD Destructive Capacity. After doing a couple of shows with the band as a temporary replacement, Sander Stegeman (Posthuman) joined Disintegrate and brought them back to full strength and played at the prestigious Wâldrock festival! Disintegrate continues to work on a full length CD, which will be released in early 2010.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disintegrate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.