Following the success of Lindstrøm and Prins Thomas comes diskJokke, a.k.a. Joachim Dyrdahl the latest in a string of exciting and innovative artists hailing from the respected Oslo electronica scene.

diskJokke was discovered by Oslo-Disco luminary Prins Thomas, who immediately signed three tunes to his Full Pupp label (released on two 12” singles). Almost simultaneously in Germany, M.A.N.D.Y and the Get Physical gang signed diskJokke for five other tunes (spread on two 12” singles) to their new Get Physical sub label, Kindisch. Following these releases, word quickly spread about diskJokke’s quirky, spaced-out and dubby mixture of house, Italo and disco, and he was soon asked to remix tunes for a number of artists, including Lindstrøm, Foals, Lykke Li and Bloc Party.

For years diskJokke has been closely connected to Norway’s premiere club night, Sunkissed, where he is resident DJ with G-HA, Olanskii and VinnyVillbass. He is part of the Oslo scene that has evolved around Sunkissed, as well as smaller hotspots Nomaden and The Villa, with Rune Lindbæk, Linstrøm, Prins Thomas and Todd Terje. Smalltown Supersound picked up diskJokke when he appeared on the Sunkissed compilation in 2008. They immediately knew that his music was a perfect match for the label.

diskJokke’s debut release, Staying In, was a tripped out mastodon of an album. It was the sound of Norwegian disco taken to its farthest, futuristic limits. It’s epic, groovy, cinematic, poppy and most of all melodic. But at the same time, it is melancholic, and as the title suggests, staying inside the dark winter and autumn nights to make music certainly reflects the mood of the record.

Roll on twelve months and diskJokke is also working with the revered Moshi Moshi label, which launched the careers of Bloc Party, Friendly Fires and Hot Chip. Jokke released his first 7” for them at the end of the summer 2010. In the pipeline there are remixes for Donkeyboy, The XX, Charlotte Gainsbourg and Little Dragon, as well as 12” releases with Full Pupp, Kindisch and Young Turks.

Since his debut album was released, Jokke has played all over the world entertaining crowds in Beijing, New York, Jakarta, Moscow and Istanbul. He’s appeared at industry showpiece South By Southwest in Austin Texas, helped Diesel celebrate their 30th birthday in Milan and rocked London’s prestigious Fabric club. Last year diskJokke featured at major festivals both at home (Hove / Öya) and abroad (Dour) and played the Iberian behemoth that is Benicassim this past summer.

After remixing The xx, Charlotte Gainsbourg, Apparatjik, Crystal Castles, Music Go Music and more throughout Autumn / Winter 2009 into 2010 Jokke now releases album number 2 – En Fin Tid.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/diskJokke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.