Dismember is a Swedish death metal band formed in 1988 in Stockholm, Sweden. They released eight full length albums, three EPs, two live DVDs, a demo compilation, and a single. They stopped in 2011. They are known for having a distinctive "chainsaw" guitar tone courtesy of the Boss HM-2 Pedal and recording and mastering at Tomas Skogsberg's Sunlight Studios. 

In 1991, Dismember made headlining news in the UK for having a song called "Skin Her Alive" on their "Like An Ever Flowing Stream" debut. Accordingly, while authorities were inspecting Nuclear Blast packages for any "obscene" material under the newly passed Obscene Publications Act. In short, this was taken to court and Plastic Head (the company responsible for distributing their CD's) won the court case and was awarded money where the Dismember record was deemed neither "pornographic, obscene or indecent".

Richard Cabeza was removed from the band due to distance issues. Richard went down to Texas during the recording of "Where Ironcrosses Grow" because that is where his wife lives and she was pregnant at the time. Cabeza and his wife planned on moving back to Sweden and having the baby born there. For some reason, Swedish immigration would not allow it. The distance became an issue for the band, and Richard Cabeza was replaced by Johan Bergeb채ck.

According an interview, the band had originally used multiple band names, one of them was Asphyxiator; Nicke Andersson came up with the name Dismemberizer, but as the name didn't fit on the first demo, the band settled on Dismember.

The band's logo was created by Nicke Andersson, drummer of Entombed and Nihilist.

Past Members:
Drums - Fred Estby
Guitar - Robert Senneb채ck (Vocals 1988-1989)
Bass - Richard Cabeza
Guitar - Magnus Sahlgren
Bass - Johan Bergeb채ck
Bass - Erik Gustafsson

Line-up at time of split:
Drums - Thomas Daun
Bass - Tobias Cristiansson
Rhythm Guitar - Martin Persson
Lead Guitar - David Blomqvist (Bass from 1989-1990)
Vocals - Matti K채rki <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dismember">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.