There is more than one artist by this name.

1. An electronic dance music producer from Brighton, UK. Signed to Digital Soundboy. 

Brighton based Will Knighton is regarded as one of the most hotly tipped young producers and DJ’s to emerge from the UK Bass scene. Blurring the lines between house, dubstep and Dutch techno, Dismantle was catapulted into the limelight after his massive ‘Computation’ track, getting hammered by the likes of Annie Mac, Diplo, Skream, Zane Lowe, Mista Jam, Toddla T and all the key tastes makers. Since then he continues to run his own label ‘Gangoon Dubz’ and has released on Gold Rush, Wheel N Deal and Caspa’s Dub Police imprint.

2012 saw Dismantle sign to Shy FX’s Digital Soundboy label and release his critically acclaimed ‘Warp EP’ in July. Will also turned out massive remixes for Toddla T on Ninja Tune and more recently his brilliant re-work of A-Trak & Zinc’s ‘Like The Dancefloor’ on Fools Gold/Rinse, not to mention cementing himself as a firm festival favorite with killer performances at Ibiza Rocks, Outlook, Lovebox, Hideout, ADE & Global Gathering to name a few.

Oct 2012 saw Will host a 4 week residency on BBC 1Xtra as part of the BBC’s Xtra Talent program and he also guested on Radio 1’s Diplo & Friends show.

Already a firm favorite with the likes of Skrillex, Diplo, Annie Mac and Skream, Will is now busy working on his next EP and eventually his debut album for Digital Soundboy, due for release in 2013.

2. A thrash metal band form Rosemead, California, USA. Formed in 2006.

Line up:

Relentless Warrior (Adam) - Vocals, Bass
Morbid Reaper (Frank) - Guitar
Unholy Molester (Gio) - Drums

3. A hardcore band from Bowling Green, Ohio.

Dismantle is a four piece hardcore group formed in 2012 as part of the thriving NW Ohio hardcore scene. Their music displays a dedication to the sounds of the pioneers of hardcore from the 1980s. They play a stripped down, no-frills, in your face brand of hardcore that stands out amongst the current trend of "dark" hardcore. 

Through numerous DIY house shows they've become a sharp, focused unit that displays a real sense of aggression and dissatisfaction with trends in both society and the current hardcore scene. Their first release was a set of demos posted to their Bandcamp, followed by 2013's "In Stride" which was released as both a digital download and a limited-run cassette. The band's next release will be the "Complaints" 7" which is coming in late 2013. All of their music has been posted to their Bandcamp.

Line-up:
Zack- Guitar
Matt- Vocals
Sean- Bass
Jake- Drums



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dismantle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.