There are 15 bands that go by the name Disorder:

www.complete-disorder.info

1) Disorder is a legendary UK82 punk band that started in the Bristol area of the United Kingdom in 1980. They were part of the protest punk movement. The BBC DJ John Peel described their early singles as sounding like Triumph Bonneville motorbikes. The band has gone through numerous line-up changes in almost 30 years but rumours of their demise have always been premature. The longest standing member of the band Taf (bassist/guitarist) normally assembles other musicians to record albums or go on tour. Recent tours have seen the band perform with the line-up consisting of Taf , Nick , Ben 

2) Disorder, from the US, were a power/thrash metal band who released one demo in 1989. Reminiscent of Watchtower with quirky high pitched vocals and thrashy guitars.

3) Disorder, currently active dark wave band from London, England

4) Disorder was one of many aliases used by techno producer Joey Beltram.

5) Disorder, from El Salvador, are a death metal band formed in 1996 under the name "Noserfer". In 2002, they released a re-worked demo with the title "Voces de la Tumba". 

6) Disorder, from the Netherlands, are a doom-influenced metal band who also incorporate elements of gothic metal into their music. Their earlier releases, Manifestation of Imagination (1995) and A Gothic Dream (1997) were much heavier. For their 2000 release, The Sign of Horus, a female vocalist, Mirjam Blom, was added to the lineup.

7) Disorder, from Germany, are a German DnB collective that used to feature releases on Position Chrome and one joint release on a label called Don Q. One half of Disorder is the german artist Panacea and the other half is Problem Child.

8) Disorder, was the solo project of Zac Richards, Melbourne, Australia; before a name change to Adonikam. Current homepage is: www.myspace.com/adonikam - please look here for further info.

9) Disorder, from the U.S., was a traditional heavy metal band in the vein of Mercyful Fate that released a short 4-song album in 1984 and quickly disbanded. Tracks included "Warmonger", "Ending Is Near", "Six Feet Under", and "Fightin' For Life."

10) Disorder, Yperse Deathcore

11) Disorder, currently split-up thrash/heavy metal band from Ankara, Turkey. They released two demos in 1995 (entitled "Infection") and in 1997 (entitled "Dead").

12)  Disorder was a Dutch punk group from IJsselstein which released a 7" EP, referred to as "Fake Heads EP", with six songs in 1981. Band members were: Harold Sangers (vocals), Riks Ozinga (guitar), Marcel Knijff (bass) and Ron Bertens (drums).Nederpunk.punt.nl (Dutch language site).

13)  uk82, Street Punk Band from Sunderland.  Releases two EP's:

AIR RAID 7" (Ace, 1980)

REALITY CRISIS 7" (1981)

14) Disorder is a thrash metal band from Guadalajara, Mexico. They released on 5 track demo in 2009 called Thrashin' Nightmare. 
http://www.myspace.com/disorderthrash

15) Disorder, German goth/darkwave band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disorder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.