1. A hardcore-punk band from Salt Lake City, Utah.
http://www.myspace.com/disownedhc

2. Disowned’s first project was born in the year 2000, when Tommaso(Tom-ace,guitarist) and Raffaele(Pigna,drummer),classmates,decided to start playing together.
With them, Elena(ex-bassist) ,Andrea(ex-singer) and Federico(viv,bassist),completed the line-up of our first band ,”Headup” (we decided this name because of a great Deftones’song...).
We playied with 2 basses for a period of 10 months and then Elena,for obvious reasons, went out of the band and Elia(Skikkio) took the place of Andrea and became our actual singer.
The real moment ,in which Disowned was born,was when the owner of the rooms we were playing in,for silly reasons,decided to throw us out of the house.
We spent five or six months looking for a room,and then we found it in the top of Tommy’s parents shop. We took up almost 1 month to make order and clean it up but then it’s become the place where thoughts go away and leave the scene to vibes and melody.
There we really started playing hard,we made several concerts in Tuscany and we took part of EmergenzaRock,arriving in the final act with bands like No Radical Change,Taster’s Choice,Egon etc..
In a rainy day of November 2003 Tommy met Andrea Sartini(our producer) and born a great friendship.
He made us recording our first demo in 2004 which contained the songs Walls,Enigma,Hard253,Hillness,Cruel and Like you.
With the demo in our hands,we reached the final of the festival “Suoninellanotte”,which selected us beetween more than 100 demo and cds.
There we won the prize of the public ,consisting in a mini-tour of 5 dates in the best Rock clubs of Tuscany. In the year 2004 Ivanoe (keyboardist), great friend and supporter of the band, started playing with us making our music sound richer.
From his arrival to now, we stopped playing concerts and we concentrated on adjust our songs for taking them in studio.
Our debut album “Emotionally involved” has been registered at the studio24 of Andrea Sartini, located in Fornacette(Pisa), by Marco Ribecai and Alessandro Gori and has been masterized at “Precision Mastering”studios at Hollywood CA by Tom Baker(Deftones,NIN,Sevendust,Taproot...).
Support us buying our debut album!

3. A melodic Death-Metal band from Arica, Chile. 
https://www.facebook.com/Disownedcl/info <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disowned">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.