There are many (at least 3) artists with the name of "Disruption"

1) Disruption is a Korean Melodic Death Metal band. In 2017 the first full-length release "Entombed in Reveries" was released.

2) Disruption is a Producer/DJ from Oxnard, California.
He started off as a Battle DJ in 2001.
In 2003 he laced down his first CD Mix-tapes.
In 2006 he moved forward with his own production and now shares the fun on stage with live sets.
He has many Pod Casts on iTunes with more to come!

3) Disruption was formed 1999 in Karlskrona, Sweden by Danny, Mike, Jonte, Tom and Jonas, with the intention of composing aggressive metal.

They recorded two demos entitled A Soul Full Of Hate EP and Bitch On The Cross in the year following. The demos were very well received by the local audience and a number of various gigs throughout Sweden followed.

These recordings also brought Disruption together with producer Magnus Sedenberg (The Bones, Spawn of Possession, Crucified Barbara) and a full-length album, “Behind the Trigger” was recorded at Pama studio 1 in Kristianopel, Sweden. The album was never released though, due to problems with different record-labels but Disruption still lived on in the Swedish underground. 

At this point guitar-player Tom Persson had lost interest in the band and the music-industry as well, so he decided to leave the band.

Peter Eriksson (Unchained) was asked to fill his shoes and accepted. They continued to do shows and were actually appointed the best live act of the region in some corny contest. 
  A couple of years later Magnus Sedenberg founded Blakk records as a sub label to Pama records and decided to start working with Disruption again. The band put together a compilation cd called “Demolisher pack” stuffed with live video tracks and some of the best songs from the unreleased debut album and started to send it out to selected labels. 

A license deal was linked with Copro productions and Disruption entered the studio in Kristianopel again. They recorded a new full-length album called “Face the Wall” and released it all over Europe in June 2005 through Copro and Blakk records. “Face the wall” was received well by the critics.

Disruption are continuously writing new songs for the follow-up album and are plotting for a late 2006 release. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disruption">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.