There are multiple bands called Dissection:

1) Dissection was a Melodic Death/Black Metal band from Strömstad, Sweden. The 2006 album "Reinkaos" is Conceptual Melodic Thrash/Death Metal or as Jon himself called it "The Metal Of Death". The band was formed in 1989 by Jon Nödtveidt (vocals / lead, rhythm & acoustic guitars). Other members were Ole Öhman (drums), Peter Palmdahl (bass), and John Zwetsloot (rhythm & classic acoustic guitars).

In 1990, Dissection played their first live show with death metal act Entombed. In the same year, they recorded and released their first demo titled "The Grief Prophecy".  A year later the first EP "Into Infinite Obscurity" was released. In 1992, Dissection began work on a full-length album, "The Somberlain", which was released by the now-defunct Swedish label No Fashion Records.

During November 1994, Dissection signed a record deal with the German record label Nuclear Blast. Because he didn't take the band as seriously as the other members did, John Zwetsloot was replaced by Johan Norman on rhythm guitars. In 1995, the band's second full-length album, "Storm of the Light's Bane", was released, after which Öhman left the band to be replaced by Tobias Kellgren. The following year, Dissection also released a short EP titled "Where Dead Angels Lie". It was compiled from previous rare and import releases, and contained only cover songs and demo tracks.

In 1997, a compilation album featuring almost all old Dissection demo songs was issued, titled "The Past Is Alive (The Early Mischief)". That same year, Jon Nödtveidt was convicted of helping murder a 38-year old homosexual man in Gothenburg and the band disbanded. Jon was serving time in prison until early 2004 and then reactivated the band. Nödtveidt formed an entirely new line-up, consisting of Set Teitan (rhythm guitars & backing vocals; also in Watain) and Tomas Asklund (drums; also in Gorgoroth).

In 2006, Dissection released their third full-length album "Reinkaos" through their own label, in association with The End Records. The lyrics on "Reinkaos" contain magical formulae, based on the teachings of the book "Misanthropic Luciferian Order".
The band played its final European concert in Stockholm on Midsummer, 24 June 2006. Jon Nödtveidt (aged 31) shot himself somewhere between August 14th and 16th. Swedish police found him in his apartment the 16th of August 2006. He killed himself because he felt he had achieved all that he could and was meant to in this life. According to some who actually knew him this was probably planned ever since he got out of jail.

2) Dissection is a Canadian thrash metal band from Quebec City, Quebec formed in 1986 under the name Genocide. They released two demos under that name ("Chain Saw Slaughter" and "Black List") before changing their name to Dissection in 1987. Dissection released their debut album in 1988 titled "Final Genocide" through Fringe Product. In 1991 they released a cassette called "Garden of Stone" and split up soon after. Members of Dissection had previously played in the heavy metal band Outbreak and some Outbreak riffs were recycled for Dissection songs.

3) Dissection is a death/thrash metal band from Croatia, but changed their name to Aeon and split up in 1996.

4) Dissection is a death metal band from Lithuania. They split up in 1993, but in 2006 a compilation album called "Dissected Tapes" was released.

5) Dissection is a black metal band from Germany. Changed name after two demo tapes and released several albums as Tsatthoggua.

6) Dissection is a death/grind band from Poland, and split up a year after forming in 1990.

7) Dissection is a thrash metal band from Czech Republic that formed in 1985 and they are still around. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dissection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.