1) Dutch Death Metal Band from Alphen aan den Rijn. Formed in 1990, released their debut album "Swallowing Swouming Mass" in 1993 after two demo tapes.

2) Dissect is a serialized music podcast that breaks long form musical analysis into short, digestible episodes. Season 1 is dedicated entirely to To Pimp a Butterfly by Kendrick Lamar. Over nearly 20 episodes, we'll dissect this Grammy-award winning record measure-by-measure, word-by-word, until we reach a complete understanding of this modern masterpiece.

3) Dissect from Turku, Finland: (Disbanded in 2010)

The end of spring 2002 meant beginning for Dissect. Tommi and Aaro had long planned on starting a hc-band. Biggest problem seemed to be in finding the right guys. During the Turun Tauti -tour in April -02 Tommi talked with Belette, and things started to happen. Now the only thing missing was the guitarist. After list of possible candidates, they thought about Janne. He was interested and now they were all set.

Practice sessions were held at A-Panimo. The band consisted of four members back then, but one night a call from Belet changed all that. Veikki from Selkkaus was interested in joining the band. Soon Dissect had its fifth member.

In autumn -02 Dissect was at studio and recorded its first demo “Bare Crust”, that had 12 tracks. Veikki sent demos around and couple of songs went to various compilations. Around Spring -03 Veikki told that a German company Power It Up and a French one called Undislessed were interested in releasing a 7″ from Dissect. The band went to studio to record seven new tracks. There were also talks about a split 7″ with a Peruvian band named Los Rezios and about contributing a song to a compilation album made by a Swedish organization Antifa.

Since then, time has passed and what has happened? The planned split 7″ with Los Rezios became reality afterwards Dissect released EP called Todellista Todellisuutta. The EP was released early 2004 and is pretty much sold out nowadays. The gig count? Past 40 and still going strong. As for now, Dissect is writing new material and playing gigs. You’ll be hearing from them.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dissect">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.