There is more than one artist with this name:

1.) A melodic death metal band from Winnipeg, Canada.

2.) A thrash metal band from Christchurch, New Zealand.

3.) A Death Metal band from the Czech Republic.

1.) Dissolution is based in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and was formed in late 2003 by Ryan Forsyth and Dennis Mott, with Graeme Martin joining in mid-2004. After putting together a demo and a set list, the three started playing a number of surprisingly successful shows with a drum machine (affectionately dubbed Robot Drummer), including an opening slot for Quebec underground heroes Quo Vadis and Augury. In mid-2005, Scott Patterson, also of Brandon, Manitoba-based instrumental metalcore band Beyond Betrayal moved to Winnipeg, and joined Dissolution, to solidify the lineup.

Dissolution play a blend of Melodic Death Metal, with heavy doses of Thrash, Progressive, Black Metal, and whatever else may catch their ears at the time. In mid-2007, Dissolution released their long in-the-works debut LP "Dying. Dead. Undead." and soon after parted ways with Graeme Martin.

Jean-Louis Wittinger (formerly of Fuck The Facts and currently of Winnipeg grindcore act Putrescence) was recruited in late-2007 to handle bass duties. In mid-2008, Dissolution began writing the follow-up to 2007's "Dying. Dead. Undead.", and in the process of doing so released a 3-song demo. Due to scheduling conflicts, Jean-Louis Wittinger had to part ways with Dissolution in Early 2009.

Dissolution is currently working on their sophomore album (as-of-yet untitled), and is working with their new bass player, Matt Stanicky. MySpace.

2.) Dissolution is a thrash metal band from Christchurch, New Zealand. They have just released their debut full-length album, Plague of Violence and will embark on small national tours during 2010 to promote the album and raise their national profile. Plague of Violence was recorded at Nightshift studios in Christchurch, and the entire production, including mixing, mastering and CD package design, was completed by band members Jake Skinner and Brett McKersey.

Dissolution formed in March 2006 and they have played regularly in Christchurch, including supports for the likes of Australia’s Lord, and Frankenbok, as well as NZ acts such as Subtract, Malevolence and Tainted. They have also played a handful of shows in Auckland and Whangarei, including a slot at 2009’s Audience With The Devil. Their songs reflect a love of classic 80s thrash, and are inspired by bands like Kreator, Destruction, Exodus and Death. The dynamic twin-guitar interplay between the two guitarists gives their songs memorable hooks, while melodic interludes provide a refreshing balance to the ferocity of the riffs.

Dissolution are: Brett McKersey (bass/vocals), Jake Skinner (lead guitars), Courtney Marr (lead guitars), Mike Tobin (drums). MySpace.

3.) The band was formed in 2003. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dissolution">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.