There are 3 artists named Disturbance.

1. Industrial / noise artist from Russia.
2. Old-skool Punk Band from Holland. 
3. Early '90s hard rock band from United States

[1] You can download tracks from here.

[2] In the mid-nineties, four blokes decided to form a band under the smog veil of Rotterdam, Punk capital of Holland. They played their Punk the old fashioned way, with a lot of spitting and cursing at anything that society thinks of as alright, which is not. They done a lot of gigs in the Rotterdam area and expanded their territory throughout the Netherlands. Somewhere back in 98, the unfortunate (and probably rainy) day came the drummer left the band. Disturbance wasnt planning to give up, and sought out a new drummer. The drummer they found originated, as up to this day, from the Cenobites, a psychobilly band from the Dutch underground scene.

Now Disturbance is a four-man formation consisting out of Rob (vocals) Dim (guitar) Joz (bass) and Kiel (drums), who still believe in the traditional values of punk, in a similar way the punks did at the end of the 70s in England. In 2001 Disturbance brought out their first EP live on to decline on Tocado records (www.tocado.com) that had air play on the Belgian radio Donna and the also Belgian Studio Brussel. The first press (Dutch market only / white vinyl) is sold out by now, as well is the second press (worldwide / brown vinyl).

In the not so distant future there will be a Disturbance live tape brought out , from the first 5 years of the Disturbance-existence. Locations played are very different, from Nighttown to the Stubnitz freight ship. In nightown Disturbance played a fair amount of the Heel erg punk festivals, which brought out 2 live cds with among others Disturbance. Since may 2003 the debut album Malice in Slumberland is out on Streetmusic Berlin <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disturbance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.