Distorted Reality is the name of more than one artist:
1) electronic
2) Greek hip-hop

Distorted Reality was formed by Martha M. Arce from Miami, FL, United States and Christian Kobusch from Berlin, Germany. Martha is the former lead singer of Deep Red, the American Electro-Goth formation. While on tour in Germany with Deep Red, as the support for Project Pitchfork, a chance meeting would occur.

After a concert in Herford, Germany, Martha and Christian met and discussed their ideas. Via e-mail they kept in touch and formed Distorted Reality in 1997. Because of the distance the production took a long time. However, as a result of good studio conditions, a mutual desire, and willingness to make this project work, a collection of innovative and unique songs were created.

Since their formation, Distorted Reality have appeared on numerous CD compilations and radio shows, mainly across North America and Europe. An array of European and American music magazines have featured Distorted Reality, hailing their talents. Among these are the German magazines Zillo, Sonic Seducer and Orkus, the Belgium/American Sideline, and the Russian Rockcity. In addition, Distorted Reality was ranked No. 4 in the "Best Newcomer 2002" category in the Grenzwellen.de online poll.

Distorted Reality's debut album, "The Fine Line Between Love and Hate," was produced with Bruno Kramm (Das Ich) and released on May 17, 2002 on Accession Records. The album contains remixes by Propaganda, Sabotage, and Noyce™.

On May 13, 2003 "The fine Line..." was re-released on the American record label Nilaihah Records. The North American version contains additional remixes by Assemblage 23, Forma Tadre, cut.rate.box, and Null Device.

Besides smaller stage appearances, Distorted Reality performed live at the 12th Wave Gotik Treffen in Leipzig (Germany) and supported a Psyche concert in Tampa (Florida, USA). As a part of the "Electronic Pleasures" Festival Tour in November 2004, Distorted Reality played in Berlin, Hanover, and Augsburg (Germany). Distorted Reality eventually signed an agreement with booking agency RGKP to increase the stage presence of the band.

Martha and Christian completed their second album "Daydreams and Nightmares" together with Andreas Meyer (Forma Tadre, Newt). The album was released on March 21, 2006 on Nilaihah Records in the U.S. and Scanner Records of Dark Dimensions in Europe. Artists like Bruno Kramm (Das Ich), Daniel Myer (Haujobb), In Strict Confidence, Dust of Basement, and Chris L. (Agonoize) contributed remixes to this album. One highlight of this album is a cover version of Billy Idol's "Rebel Yell".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Distorted+Reality">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.