The (hi)story so far….

Disturbing Foresights was one of the first Dutch bands around that managed to blend hardcore and metal music with a punk attitude. The band existed from 1989 to 1996, spending most of the time writing, recording and playing shows locally and abroad. During the years of its existence, D.F. has undergone several line-up changes (which are too numerous to mention here), but all these modifications have made the band stronger and shaped it into what can be heard on their posthumously released CD “De-Grunged”.

The album was originally recorded in 1993, when D.F. went to the famed Excess Studio (in Rotterdam, Holland) with renowned producer Pieter Kloos (Beef, Peter Pan Speedrock, Anarcrust, Motorpsycho to namedrop only a few) to record their debut CD “De-Grunged”. Unfortunately their dated record label GAP Records fucked things up severely, so the CD was never released. In 2008 former D.F. members Iwan (vocals), Koen (bass and backing vox), Cor (drums and backing vox) and Bas (guitars) inked a deal with Deity Down Records. They finally see the aforementioned recordings (which were recently remastered by Pieter Kloos at The Void Studio in Eindhoven, Holland) released.

Don’t let the first melodic hardcore song “Work It Out” mislead you. The following songs are pretty harsh and will rock your socks off and blow your mind. There's cool music to be discovered here and anyone interested in a large variety of styles will be in seventh heaven with this band. The lyrical content of this album is alarmingly painful and hasn’t lost any of its relevance in the present day. The brilliant artwork was created by the Dutch artist Robert “Lämmy” Lammerding who was a world champion in graphic design in the early nineties.

Let’s go back to the original story now. The band was fairly known for its energetic stage performances, which have won over thousands of fans on an international scale. D.F. shared the stages in Holland, Germany, Denmark, Belgium, Spain and the Czech Republic with Millions Of Dead Cops, Osdorp Posse, Youth Brigade, Brutal Obscenity, N.R.A., Orphanage, Seein’ Red among others. While its fan base continued to grow at a rapid pace due to word of mouth, each and every D.F. release sold out within a matter of weeks.

In case you’re wondering about the current whereabouts of the former Disturbing Foresights members: most of them are retired from the music business now. Singer Iwan plays guitars in Possible Suspect at the moment and drummer Cor has been and is involved in various musical projects like Trespassers W., Stanislaw and AA Kismet. This completes the history of Disturbing Foresights so far…or does it?


 
D.F. discography:

1989: “Struggle To Speak” (self released demo tape);
1991: “Tegenwind” (vinyl compilation album on WRF with Vietzpadde, Unaccepted and Tribez Of Idiotz);
1991: “Live In Madrid” (live video recorded at Sala Argentina, Madrid, Spain);
1992: “Couch Potatoes” (vinyl split EP on WRF with Antic Hay, 1992);
1992: “Welcome To Our Scene” (vinyl compilation album on WRF with a vast amount of bands);
1992: “1992” (self released vinyl EP);
1993: “De-Grunged” (non-released CD album);
1993: “Walking Violations Of The Laws Of Nature” (demo, contains 4 “De-Grunged” tracks);
1995: “Come On Baby” (4 track vinyl EP on Smart Records);
1995: “Bits Of Noise 2” (compilation CD on WRF with the likes of Radical Retard, Travoltas a.o.);
2008: “The Harder, The Better Volume 14” (compilation CD on Turkey Vulture Records featuring the 1993 version of “This 1’s 4 U”).
2008: “Down For The Core Vol. 8” (compilation CD on Back Ta Basics Records containing the 2008 version of “Chemical Century”);
2008: “De-Grunged” (CD album on Deity Down Records). 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Disturbing+Foresights">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.