There are 2 artists known called Divination.

1. Divination is one of the many projects of bassist, producer and record laber owner Bill Laswell. Two albums were released under this moniker in 1993 and 1994, respectively: Ambient Dub Vol. I and Divination: Ambient Dub, Volume Two - Dead Slow.

The two albums are similar in their ideals, though different in execution. Vol. I is woven more around textured guitars, dark synths and electronics and Laswell's own groovy bass. Volume Two tends more towards the "ambient" - in the electronic sense of the genre - than the "dub", featuring swirling pads, looped percussion, little or no vocals (or guitars) and little in the way of the Carribean roots of dub.  

2.   Divination is a Death/Black Metal band from Reading PA. Divination was formed in 1994 in Reading, PA. Divination was originally conceived as a death metal band influenced by early Death Metal acts such as Deicide, Suffocation, and Malevolent Creation, but massive turnover and lineup changes eventually introduced unexpected influences from outside the strict Death Metal confines. The most recent guitar duo brought with them an arsenal of riffing ranging from more diverse styles including hardcore, thrash and progressive metal. Breaking out of their own self-imposed mold allowed them trim the fat from the “cookie cutter” death metal traditions. While keeping the speed and brutality of death metal, Divination was free to explore such things as melodic phrasing as well as sprinkles of hardcore breakdowns and black metal ferocity.

1999 saw the release of the self-produced Obsessed EP which met with limited local success and paved the way for opening spots with acts such as Pro Pain and Six Feet Under. Appearing on the Gimme the Medicine compilation CD and constantly pummeling audiences in the local club scene eventually attracted the attention of fledgling label DRP Records who signed the band in 2003. The new relationship provided the means to record and release the band’s first full length album, Three Nails of Fate, later in the same year. DRP Records later developed a relationship with Sky Records and inked a deal to include two tracks from Three Nails of Fate on From the Shadows...Metal for the Modern Era featuring Anthrax, Dillinger Escape Plan, and Mastodon. Since the release of Three Nails of Fate, Divination has shared the stage with a throng of national acts including the likes of Black Dahlia Murder, Cannibal Corpse, God Forbid, Into Eternity, and most recently the legendary Exodus.

Applying the lessons learned from the previous releases, and having a fresh vocal perspective provided a rebirth for the band allowing them to approach songwriting open to any and all ideas. The new material represented a risk for the band, unsure if their core fan base would embrace the new direction. Performing the new songs live before they were recorded proved that the risk was worth taking. Fans and peers alike expressed resounding enthusiasm for the band pushing themselves to the next level which fueled the band’s ambition to record The Age of Man. The freedom this album provides exposes the mere tip of the iceberg of what Divination has in store for their fans and future fans.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Divination">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.