Dividing Light was formed in November of the year 2000, when college mates Josh Block (Guitar) and Dan Malloy (Vocals) had met. Through a mutual interest in crushingly heavy, transcendent melodic music, the two had decided to join forces and create an ideal project. An addition to the line up was shortly made by long time friend, Stew Pettit (Bass). The newly formed group worked in convoluted harmony, writing songs in masses that would quickly form demos to full length CDs. It was here; the sound of Dividing Light began to take shape.

After two years of writing, recording, gigging and line up changes, the band had concluded its search for the 4th official member, as drummer Frank Godla joined the band. It was then the name Dividing Light was born, and in many ways when the band itself truly came to fruition. Continuing the same busy manor, Dividing Light set forth a vigorous schedule in gigging, and writing while finishing off their first full length LP entitled Re-conception.

Dividing Lights concept LP, ReConception was released in September of 2004 to rave reviews and a wildly spreading fan base across the NY scene. Self produced and engineered by vocalist Dan Malloy, the LP continues to be a proud accomplishment both musically and constructively for each member in the band.

Progressing at technical speed, the band moved along 2005 with pure accomplishment. Writing, rehearsing and tracking the much-anticipated EP Instruments of Conquest proved to be a fluent task, while ascertaining a much-sophisticated approach to their music writing.

With the addition of Allen Shoikhetbrod (Guitar) easing into the bands formation, Dividing Light continuously proves themselves thicker and tighter than ever. With the upcoming release Instruments of Conquest the band is looking forward to a year of continuous growth. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dividing+Light">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.