With the release of The Burning Passion on Listenable Records, Divine Rapture has cemented its position as a leader in the new wave of death metal. Powered by J.J. Hrubovcak, Mike Hrubovcak, Babak Davodian and Ryan Moll, the band is continually exploring new ways to grow artistically, expand the genre musically and culturally and establish dominance.

The band's history is accented by numerous accomplishments such as The Burning Passion tracked and engineered at Ron Vento's (Aurora Borealis) Nightsky Studios, MD and mixed and mastered by Divine Rapture's own Babak Davodian at Transcend Studios, NY. This album is the follow-up to a 3 song promotional cd recorded by Erik Rutan (Morbid Angel, Hate Eternal) at Dimensional Sound Studios in Tampa, Florida. Divine Rapture has been featured on numerous split cds and compilations including a feature alongside Zyklon, Vader, Krisiun and others on the Tyrants from the Abyss - Morbid Angel tribute released by Hammerheart Records in Europe (licensed from Hellspawn Records) and Necropolis Records in the U.S. Their debut record was available through Relapse Records and Nuclear Blast America. They have performed in a variety of venues and festivals including Milwaukee Metalfests, Metal Meltdowns and other festivals and they have performed in support with such names as Deicide, In Flames, Dying Fetus, Monstrosity and others. Major press releases, reviews and interviews in such magazines as Metal Maniacs, Rock Hard France, Hard n Heavy, Explicitly Intense, Unrestrained, Brave Words and Bloody Knuckles, Ancient Ceremonies, Pit Magazine, Vampiria, etc have contributed to the rapidly enlarging Sons of the Harvest DR fan base.

With the new record in the works Divine Rapture looks to expand the genre even further. This record promises to be a real treat of new wave metal emotion exploring new avenues in thought and song construction. The musical material is much more open, airy, atmospheric and relaxed than The Burning Passion and a mixture of black metal and new age elements can be more readily heard as well as DR death metal elements. The lyrics and album concept are based on a subject never before touched upon by any metal band. Be prepared for a new powerful metal masterpiece! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Divine+Rapture">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.