Divine Silence was founded in 1996 by three individuals who shared a common goal. We started out under the heavy influence of the doom/death metal movement that was around at the time. Bands like Anathema, My Dying Bride, Katatonia, and Paradise Lost were among the most influential. After kicking around a few ideas, the songs for the first demo Tranquil Sorrows were written and recorded. Although the production of this demo was mediocre, it received some good feedback from the underground metal community. Songs from this demo were featured on WSOU's Monday Night Mayhem and The Grimoire of Exalted Deeds fanzine compilation. Numerous shows were set up with local bands like Evoken and Abazagorath as Divine Silence strove to get their name out to as many people who were willing to listen. Shortly after the release of Tranquil Sorrows, Divine Silence was approached by Alabaster Records to be part of their "So Mote It Be" compilation. It was with this that a 2 song promo was released featuring the songs "Shadowmoon" and "Dark Blood." This is what lead up to concerts in support of bands like My Dying Bride, Dark Funeral, and Ancient. The momentum of the band seemed to be unstoppable, but constant line up changes and creative differences put a halt to any progress Divine Silence hoped to make. Putting the aforementioned obstacles behind them, Divine Silence carried on. With a complete line up once again, the band stated to set up shows with Grey Skies Fallen, Evoken, October Thorns, and Unearthly Trance to name a few. It was around this time they were asked to play the first ever March Metal Meltdown. More and more shows came around with bands like The Gathering, Moonspell, and Lacuna Coil. Following these events, Divine Silence decided to self-release their first CD "Promise You." Shortly after its release, Divine Silence was approached by the now defunct Crestfallen Records for a record deal. Once again, line up changes and creative differences plagued the band. After a while, they decided to call it quits. Fortunately, the end of Divine Silence would not last long. Although much has changed over the years, the band's common goal remains the same. Be on the lookout for Divine Silence!

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/thedivinepath
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Divine+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.