There are three bands/projects called Divinity.
1) Divinity is a metal band from Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
2) Project Divinity, an ambient solo project.
3) Divinity was a progressive/melodic black metal band from Saguenay, Quebec, Canada.

1) It’s said that given the right conditions, ANYTHING can happen. It’s no wonder that seemingly small coincidences coalesced within a very specific time window at a very specific geographical location in western Canada to give rise to the sonic phenomenon known as DIVINITY.

While singer/guitarist Sean Jenkins was still in high school jamming in a basement with friends in Calgary, Alberta, his life path crossed with guitarist James Duncan, creating the solid foundation DIVINITY would later come to rest on. Leaving the comforts of their rehearsal space to test their skills in a live setting, the Canadian natives made their on-stage debut by playing live “Battle of the Bands” shows in Calgary. Several years and several line-up changes later, the chemistry created by the addition of drummer Brett Duncan prompted the band to record their five-song Intensify EP. Deciding on a dual guitar approach, Sacha Laskow was recruited into the band’s ranks, and when Nick Foster was enlisted to handle bass duties, DIVINITY had at last found their missing fifth element.

Brought together by serendipity and gifted with the sight to see the necessity of and place for variety, a surging creativity has always fueled these talented, similarly-minded musicians. Armed with his own arsenal of growls, high-pitched screams, and melodic clean vocals, founding DIVINITY member and lead singer Sean Jenkins has successfully overseen the amalgamation of multiple genres: a crushing thrash attitude with complex progressive metal arrangements and brutal death metal overtones. The resulting compositions are devastating. The poise of each song’s shifting time signatures and their unpredictable rhythmic insanities alone will easily qualify DIVINITY’s new album as one of the more memorable aural assaults of 2009.

Featuring guest death & harmony vocals by Greg Musgrave & Jerrod Maxwell-Lyster, The Singularity’s intricate riffs, plunging grooves, and melodic passages can carry you through the expansive landscape of the soul. Lyrically tackling the themes of substance abuse, the turmoil of relationships, survival in the midst of adversity, the chaos of existence and humanity’s battle against technology, Jenkins explores the parameters of the human voice while capable shredders James Duncan & Sacha Laskow weave their unyielding riffs & solos throughout as the rhythm section of Brett Duncan & Nick Foster aptly demonstrates a very feral meticulousness. ‘Abiogenesis’, ‘Beg to Consume’, and ‘Emergent’ all exhibit DIVINITY’s dynamic and ferocious range.

A damned-with-talent band sure to please fans of Into Eternity, Strapping Young Lad, and Soilwork, keep DIVINITY on your radar. With a long & healthy future ahead of them, the auditory diversity of DIVINITY’s The Singularity makes it a serious contender for one ofthe most solid sophomore releases in a mixed genre and will surely propel these musicians out of their native homeland and into the rest of the metal world.

2)Project Divinity, an ambient project of Matti Paalanen (Last.fm user Michikawa) was known as Divinity for some time.

3)They released a demo in 1999 entitled Gods of Darkness. Their first album, Les fleurs du mal, came out in 2003. They changed their name to Divinité in 2006 to avoid confusion with other bands of the same name. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Divinity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.