After going through a few unstable line-ups, the founding members Filipe Gonçalves (vocals and guitar) and João Costa (drums) managed to get Divine Lust for the first time on stage on May 29th 1998, in a year when the group began to gather some experience on that field.

About one year later, the demo-cd "Terceiro Pecado" (Third Sin = Lust) was released. It was responsible for spreading the band's name throughout the Portuguese metal scene. The band started to be invited to some more notorious stages, such as Paradise Garage, Incrível Almadense, Armazéns Abel Pereira da Fonseca (Feira Mix), Marquês Rock Club or Ritz Club.

Eventually, Divine Lust started to see their efforts recognized by the Press, calling them a group "owning a very unique sonority in our country (a crossing between Gothic Doom and traditional Heavy Metal)" (in "Blitz" newspaper). "Loud!" magazine considered that "a possible definition for the sound they make could be My Dying Bride playing Heavy Metal".

Encouraged by the good reactions amongst the critics and the public, believers of what they had in hands, the Lisbon, Portugal based group headed into their first full-length album. Before that, a new bass player (Jorge Fonte) joined Filipe and João (who also recorded the keyboard parts), completing the trio responsible for the recordings.

2001 was a studio-working year. Even so, Divine Lust had the honor to play as support act for Anathema concerts in Portugal (Paradise Garage - Lisbon and Hard Club - Porto). A few months later, it was time to share stage with My Dying Bride, in the sold-out Lisbon show.

2002 is marked as the year of the long-awaited debut "Divine Lust", a 10-track melancholic melodic metal album, self-released by the band. And so a new chapter began…

In 2004 a promo CD called "Harvest 2004" has been released and keyboarder António Capote made a quartet out of the trio.

A video-clip from the track “Morrigan” (also included on the CD) was air-played in several TV channels and the band appeared as guest on TV Shows at SIC Radical and NTV. The feed-back on the album was quite encouraging worldwide.

In 2006 Divine Lust focused their efforts on writing new material. Even though, the band was invited to perform a mini Iberian tour with To/Die/For (Finland) and Beseech (Sweden), on June 2006. While Jorge Fonte left the band, Ricardo Pinhal on guitars joined Divine Lust.
The second album "The Bitterest Flavours", containing 11 tracks, has been released in 2008. For the recordings producer/mixer Dikk played the bass.

Their website is www.divinelust.com.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Divine+Lust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.