Divine Eve was formed on a bleak, late winter day in February 1992 by Michael A. Sleavin (rhythm guitar & vocals) and Matthew Killen, (drums & backing vocals) both of whom were in a band called Catharsis. They were soon joined by Xan Hammack (lead guitar & vocals) and Tyson Lueck (bass & backing vocals) and were preparing for their debut recording, “The Last of the Sunset Faded,” in October 1992. Just before the studio sessions took place, Tyson quit the band and all bass tracks were recorded by Hammack. Tyson rejoined the fold six months later in May 1993 and remained a full-time member until their disintegration nearly two years later. 500 cassette copies of “The Last of the Sunset Faded” sold rapidly and by November 1993, Divine Eve was instantly signed to Nuclear Blast Records for Europe and Nuclear Blast America (Relapse) for the US.

A new promotional EP was recorded in the winter of 1993/94 titled “Essence of Dawn,” which was supposed to be released by both Gothic Records (US) and Candlelight Records (UK) but never happened. One of the EP’s tracks, “Velvet of the Godless” appeared on the Nuclear Blast compilation “Death…Is Just the Beginning III” and impressed the label enough to sign them for a debut full-length recording and extensive worldwide touring. However, things did not turn out for the best.

In August 1994, the bands toured the West Coast and Mexico supporting their two releases and were preparing songs for their first album. By April 1995, the conflictions amongst the members of Divine Eve were so hostile, they disbanded immediately. Hammack instantly relocated to California and recorded the debut Divine Eve album under a new banner calling it Crimson Relic. He was accompanied by drummer Rhett Davis of Morgion and signed to the Nuclear Blast subsidiary Radiation Records. However, with poor sales and reviews, Crimson Relic’s future was halted due to not holding up the capacity of what Divine Eve songs held.

Sleavin and Killen went on to form Infernal Oak in 1995 with Geoffrey Sawicky and later Rape, Pillage & Burn in 2002 featuring Richard Cabeza (Dismember, Dark Funeral, Murder Squad, Etc) handling bass duties.

Tarot Productions is proud to release this anthology of one of the most crushing death metal bands to ever emerge out of Texas and the United States at that. In the day, Divine Eve’s musical influences included Celtic Frost, Hellhammer, Sodom, Venom, Bathory, Entombed, as well as Cathedral’s “Forest of Equilibrium” album. Lyrically, the band drew inspiration from pure visions of ancient, Pagan history, novel heretical ideologies and dismal shrouded dreams.

Divine Eve has played select shows with the following bands: Absu, Acid Bath, Autopsy, Azathoth, Brutal Truth, Imprecation, Incantation, Morgue, Pungent Stench, Sadistic Intent, Solitude Aeternus, Vital Remains and numerous local acts from the Texas area.

Source: http://www.myspace.com/divineeve <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Divine+Eve">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.