Divlje jagode (trans. "Wild Strawberries") is an ex-Yugoslav and Bosnian and Herzegovinian hard rock / heavy metal band formed in 1977. The band is widely considered to be regional pioneers of the heavy metal genre and one of the most popular and enduring icons of rock music in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region. After 36 years of existence, 12 studio albums and sales of over 4 million records, the band is still performing.

Divlje jagode were formed in 1977 in Bihać by guitarist Sead Zele Lipovača (a former Biseri, Selekcija and Zenit member). The first Divlje jagode lineup featured vocalist Ante Toni Janković, bass guitarist Nihad Jusufhodžić (a former Zenit member), keyboardist Mustafa "Muc" Ismailovski (a former Grešnici member) and drummer Adonis Dokuzović (a former Novi Akordi member). The band achieved high popularity with their first singles: hard rock ballads Jedina moja and Patkica and a cover of Bosnian folk song Moj dilbere. In 1978 they released their debut self-titled album Divlje jagode, which featured a new version of Jedina moja and ballad Krivo je more, among others. After the album was released the band made a break because part of the band's members' army obligations. Ismailovski joined Srebrna Krila, and Lipovača, alongside Marina Tucaković became spiritus movens of a disco band Mirzino Jato.

In 1980 Divlje jagode continued their activity with the new lineup: Janković, Lipovača, drummer Nasko Budimlić and bass guitarist Alen Islamović. This lineup recorded the album Stakleni hotel ("Glass Hotel") which marked their shift towards heavier sound. Songs lyrics were written by Elvis J. Kurtovich & His Meteors vocalist Goran Petranović, Marina Tucaković and Islamović. Album's biggest hits were Autostop and ballads Dodirni me, skloni bol and Potraži put. On the tour that followed the album release Divlje jagode played around one hundred concerts. At this time Lipovača took over Angus Young's schoolboy image.

In 1981 Janković started his solo career, and Divlje jagode released Motori ("Motorcycles") with Islamović on vocals. The title track became huge hit, and songs Šejla, Zagrizi Rock'n'Roll and ballads Nasmiješi se and Ne želiš kraj were well accepted. On the part of the tour that followed Motori release they were joined by Janković. Two following albums Čarobnjaci ("Wizards"), which featured hits Morison and Čarobnjaci, and Vatra ("Fire"), which featured hits Ciganka, Let na drugi svijet and Moja si..., were both well accepted, and the band signed a contract with British record company Logo Records under the name Wild Strawberries.

In 1986 they started recording the album with the new bass guitarist Zlatan Čehić. Eight of their old songs were re-recorded with lyrics in English and the album also featured two new songs, Fire on the Water and Wild Boys. Album featured keyboardist Don Airey as a guest musician. At this time, Lipovača was approached to join Whitesnake as a lead guitarist, but refused, focusing on Wild Strawberries career instead. Adopting a glam metal outlook, the band performed at The Marquee and a number of English clubs. The pilot single with song Shayla was released, but being suspicious about Wild Strawberries' success in Great Britain, Islamović accepted Goran Bregović's invitation and joined Bijelo Dugme, and Wild Strawberries' debut release was delayed. Album Wild Strawberries appeared in 1987, but the band did not have any live performances following the album release. Wild Strawberries was soon released in Sweden, Germany, Italy and Netherlands.

The same year Budimlić temporarily retired. Stevie Doherty, vocalist of the band Zero Zero from Glasgow was approached to join the band, but eventually Mladen "Tifa" Vojičić, the former Bijelo Dugme singer, joined the band as the new frontman. The album Konji was recorded by Lipovača, Tifa, Čehić, keyboardist Vladimir Podany (a former Armija B member) and drummer Edin Šehović (a former Country Carma, Bandoleros and Tusk member). It featured re-recorded version of the song Divlje jagode from their first album and a cover of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Turkish March. This lineup did not last long either: in the middle of 1988, during a tour, Tifa, Podany and Šehović left the band. Čehić took over the vocals and the drums were played by Dragan "Điđi" Jankelić. In 1989 the former Osmi Putnik frontman Zlatan Stipišić Gibonni became the new Divlje Jagode vocalist. This lineup recorded demos, helping Lipovača sign a five-year contract in the United States, but that project was never realised, and Divlje jagode disbaned.

During the war Lipovača lived in London and Zagreb. After releasing his solo album, Magic Love, Lipovača reformed Divlje jagode. In 1994 they released the album Labude kad rata ne bude ("Swan, when there Is no more War"). In 1996 Lipovača, Budimlić, bass guitarist Sanin Karić and vocalists Žanil "Žak" Tataj and recorded a softer, ballad-oriented album Sto vjekova ("Hundred Centuries").

At the end of 1990s Lipovača, Budimlić, drummer Thomas Balaz, bassist Dejan Orešković and vocalist Pero Galić (Opća Opasnost) recorded Od neba do neba ("From Sky to Sky") which was released in 2003. The first Divlje jagode singer Ante Janković, as well as other former members Žanil Tataj and Emir Cerić joined the band on their live performances on several occasions. In 2006 the band released the single Piramida. 
In 2008 Marko Osmanović, from the band Cota G4, became the new lead singer in Divlje jagode.
On January 25, 2012, the band released a new single Ne nisam ja. The music video was shot in Sarajevo. In February and March 2012, Divlje jagode went on tour in Australia, performing three concerts in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane on "On the Road Again" tour.
At the end of January 2013, after 5 years, Marko Osmanović left the band and was soon replaced by Livio Berak, with whom Divlje jagode recorded their latest album, Biodinamička ljubav, released on December 16 2013..
The album was preceded by two singles accompanied by music videos; the re-recorded version od the song Đavolji grad (originally released on the album Čarobnjaci from 1983) and Kad te netko spomene.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Divlje+Jagode">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.