La'Reonte Wright (born November 26, 1990) is an American rapper better known by his stage name Dizzy Wright. In December 2011 he signed to rapper Hopsin's independent record label Funk Volume. After signing he released his debut studio album SmokeOut Conversations in April 2012. He followed that with The First Agreement in December of that year, and then a mixtape The Golden Age in August 2013. All three projects managed to chart in the top 50 of the Billboard Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.

Fresh off of his breakthrough performance on BET's 106&Park where he captured the nations attention with "Top Knotch Steez" 19 year old Dizzy D Flashy is a lyrical phenomenon and one of the hottest up and coming HipHop talents to anticipate. Based in Las Vegas, the entertainment capital of the world, Dizzy has managed to use the city as a platform to launch his career and has already been stirring up all sorts of action. 

No stranger to entertainment, Dizzy began his career at the age of ten as a youth reporter interviewing major celebrities such as Nelly, Jessica Simpson, Magic Johnson, & Boys II Men with his younger brother K.J. The young brothers began recording songs and before they knew it were asked to perform at high profile events such as Magic Johnson's Mid Summer Nights Mardi Gras where they made their first performance on the same stage as B2K. Not long after, R & B singer turned actor, Tyrese called them up on the stage during a photo OP at the 3rd Annual BET Awards in Los Angeles and introduced them to the media as DaFuture. The brothers really liked that name and decided that’s what they would be called from that point on. 

Under the direction and guidance of their Uncle Layzie Bone, of the multi-platinum rap group Bone thugs-n-harmony the two brothers recorded many songs including one featuring Cassidy while working in the studio with Swizz Beatz. However, reality was beginning to set in as their mom simply could not afford to put anymore money into their young careers. As a result of Dizzy’s family financial problems, the teenagers of a single mom were forced to focus on school and give music a temporary rest. Dizzy calls this his inspiration for the song “Dreams on Hold”. In total DaFuture won three awards in three years (2005, 2006 & 2007) at the annual Las Vegas Music Awards including "Best Hip-Hop Group". 

Now, almost two years later Dizzy has stepped out on his own as a solo performer. He’s been grinding in the studio almost everyday after school working on songs for his debut album. While in pursuit of the right major situation he plans to spread positive energy through his music. Hopefully allowing people to not only groove to his songs but be able to understand his young perception of life through his eyes with his dynamic and crystal clear ability to flow in a variety of styles to a variety of speaker bumping beats. “I’ve learned the hard way that you can be the coolest kid on the block and still have a good head on your shoulders; education is the key to the future, it’s important no matter what career you are pursuing,” exclaims the young entertainer. 

Over the years Dizzy has been in the studio with many major recording artist and producers and has had the pleasure to work with many. Even though he is a hip-hop artist, he’s worked with R & B producers that have produced hit records for Missy Elliott, Alicia Keys, Destiny's Child, Mario and many, many more. Dizzy is sure to be right there among some of today’s hottest young entertainers that go straight for the top. He has his own swag and he prolifically displays this on his debut single "Swagg It Out" which is beginning to create a major buzz in his hometown of Las Vegas.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dizzy+Wright">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.