To some he is the champion of the underground. Others see him for the first time and ask the person dancing like crazy next to them, "Where did THIS guy come from?"

Think of Detroit Techno and DJ Bone might not be high on your list of luminaries because he is 100% independent and does things on his terms and on his terms only. He won't tap dance or bend to fit the "popular" dj mold. Those who recognize Bone know him for his uncompromising and innovative ways.

It's no accident that two letters always precede Bone's name whenever he's on the bill. First and foremost, Bone is a DJ---in the truest sense. When he spins, it's as if the turntables and the mixer become a physical extension of his body. He employs every possible technique in the disc jockey arsenal masterfully: blending, scratching, backspinning, no monitors or headphones; unrivaled in his use of the fader switch and he incorporates them all into every set. From his standing room only residency performances to after-hours spots, he rocks every show as if it's his last.

What the general public and far too many DJs don't realize is that Bone spins as much for his own enjoyment as he does for the audience. It's a compulsion that only those who live for what they do possess and those who don't can never understand: Bone lives to spin-it's a necessary part of his existence. His dedication to the art of dance music and DJing is so untainted and intense that the tales of his confrontational encounters with flashy booking agents and "big name" djs are already the stuff of legend. No hype or trends, just a relentless drive and passion to take the party to another level. That's why he's one of the few spin masters other DJs hate to follow.

DJ Bone is one of Detroit's most coveted underground vinyl technicians. This very talented and highly sought after artist plays events and clubs worldwide, has held a residency at four of Detroit's top clubs and produces music inspired by the city in which he hales from, Detroit. His record label Subject Detroit is futuristic and unearthly while still displaying the true essence of Detroit's Techno Soul.

Bone experienced the emotion, passion and energy of Detroit Techno first hand at the infamous Music Institute. What he witnessed there, along with the eclectic mix of music filling Detroit's airwaves by the legendary Electrifyin' Mojo and The Wizard, would serve to be Bone's main influences.

Bone began his DJ career spinning groundbreaking sets weekly at The Love Club (The Shelter). From there he gained a dedicated following which eventually led to him playing at three different clubs five nights a week, as well as several underground parties in Detroit. An invitation to provide fortnightly, live mixes for the Deep Space Radio show on 107.5 in Detroit was also extended.

After hearing Bone in Detroit (1996 Love Club Anniversary Party), Laurent Garnier booked him to headline at the Rex Club in Paris. Soon after word spread and Bone was invited to play events all over Europe.

A lack of electronic music which fit his style led Bone to produce his own original songs to incorporate into his funky and eclectic sets. He took it a step further and started his label Subject Detroit focusing on true Sonic Soul.

In late 1997, Bone began his residency at the Motor Lounge in Hamtramck (bordering Detroit on all sides) pioneering an underground Detroit Techno night. Within a month, the number of Bone's weekly session attendees topped 1,000 as well as tens of thousands of others tuning in to his live set broadcast on the radio every Friday from midnight until 2 am (87.9 FM). Always looking to expand minds and move bodies, Bone took on the challenge avoided by so many DJs before him familiar with Detroit by name only. For nearly three years, he amazed his crowds, which included out-of-towners from as far as Japan and Australia alongside his Detroit faithful. Unfortunately, due to Motor's attempt to exploit what Bone had founded and loved, he decided to depart from the club and his residency.

Bone's observation of the trend to book producers to spin, as opposed to actual DJs, prompted him to go against the grain and establish himself as a DJ first and foremost. He believes that an individual's talent should speak for itself and not be overshadowed or misconstrued by hype.

DJ Bone describes himself as "an uncompromising, hype hating, 100% independent, real Detroit native come auditory striker and soul controller that cannot be bought".

"If the gig is set-up with the music as the main focus (as it should be), then I have total control over the vibe. That's my duty. I'm not worried about having a Hollywood production going on or special effects with video images, smoke, etc. Just playing the best possible music as well as I can. I feel the need to constantly progress skill-wise and I feel my 3 deck sets are truly unique. Many DJs have 3 decks in front of them but how often do they actually have 3 records playing all at once (with the levels up)?” – DJ BONE  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Bone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.