DJ Dean (born as Martin Schmidt October 25, 1975 in Hamburg, Germany) is a German Euro-Trance/Hard Trance DJ, producer, and current, longtime resident DJ of the Tunnel dance club in Hamburg, Germany. He is also the founder of the German trance label Tunnel Records, which has released successful trance/hard trance compilations under the Tunnel Trance Force and DJ Networx franchises.

DJ Dean started playing music at an early age. He began his professional career in 1992, making inroads on the Hamburg club-scene, originally playing hardcore, but soon switching to Trance. In 1995 Dean became Resident DJ of Hamburg's famous Club "Tunnel".

DJ Dean's first LP, "Play It Hard," met with success on the dance charts of Europe and and jump started his trance production career.

He has many aliases, each with a distinctive sound, though he is best known for his "Tunnel Trance Force" and "DJ Networx" compilation CDs, which have been well received by Trance fans. The Tunnel Trance Force and "DJ Networx" series are released under the Tunnel Records record label (a subsidiary group of the Sony BMG Music Entertainment Group of Germany).  These popular mixes are double CD compilation discs that are released every other month and they include the latest trance productions and remixes from many of the well known artists within the trance community. There are currently 70 volumes of the Tunnel Trance Force compilation CDs available and 53 volumes of the DJ Networx compilation CDs.

Other well known DJ Dean side projects and mix series include Tunnel Goes Ibiza (Volumes 1-5), Dream Trance compilations, and Hard Trance compilations.

Other DJ Dean side projects include: Angel Beats, BallaNation, Barbarez, Bettnässer, Dynamic D's, Energy Flash, Impegement Syndrom, Martin Schmidt, Marty Schmidt, Martynes, Power Play, Silver Liquid, Star Burst, The Fall, Treibbeat, Van Nilson. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Dean">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.