DJ Envy (born RaaShaun Casey ) is a mixtape DJ from New York. He is known as New York's leading mixtape gardener.[1] He currently serves as the President & CEO of BLOK Entertainment, his own management and production company that has already produced tracks for such artist like DMX, Murderers, Funkmaster Flex, Foxy Brown, Juvenile, Petey Pablo, Fabolous and many more. He is also an MTV2 VJ for Sucker Free Countdown.

A native of Queens, New York, DJ Envy was tutored by neighborhood acquaintance DJ Clue?,[2] who introduced him to the mixtape circuit in the mid-90's. He quickly climbed up the ranks, and by the early 2000 he was peddling the latest freestyles and exclusives for big-name rappers like Jay-Z, 50 Cent and The L.O.X.. Since his reputation was so esteemed Sony sign him to their affiliate label Desert Storm Records. In 2003, he released his commercial debut album entitled The Desert Storm Mixtape: Blok Party, Vol. 1.

Envy's big break on the radio came when he mixed once a month for Hot 97's show called "Takin' it to the Streets", hosted by Angie Martinez from 12 a.m.-4 a.m., but later filled in when Angie Martinez got pregnant.[3] He then co-host Hot 97's morning show with Miss Jones from 6 a.m.-10 a.m. daily. His run on the morning show ended in July 2008 when Miss Jones moved to Philadelphia. Envy spinned on his own mixshows on Hot 97 called "The People's Mix" on Saturdays from 12pm to 2pm and "The People's Choice Hit List" on Sundays 5pm to 8pm. He had a segment on Hot 97 titled "New at 2", where he played the newest hits from 2 to 2:30 p.m. He currently hosts Hip-Hop Nation's afternoon show on Sirius XM Radio on weekdays 5 pm – 10 pm EST and on weekends he does a show from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Power 105.

On Monday December 6, 2010, DJ Envy, Angela Yee and Charlamagne Tha God began hosting the morning show on Power 105 as The Breakfast Club.

Envy has made appearances on various television shows like 106 & Park, Entourage and Tha Corner, which he hosts on the Music Choice channel.[3] He was featured in the 2006 film Blood of a Champion, credited as Shadow's enemy friend. and Lil Mama WSHH video as well[4]

On March 21, 2010, DJ Envy took over as host of MTV2's Sucker Free Countdown. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Envy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.