There are two artists named DJ Friction:

#1: Friction is a drum and bass DJ and producer named Ed Keeling.  Hailing from Brighton, UK, Friction broke onto the dnb dj’ing scene in 1999 and was quickly recognised as one of the scene’s rising stars.

Friction is now established as one of the world’s top dnb Djs and is in high demand on the international circuit, as well as making regular appearances on BBC's 1Xtra radio shows.  In addition to his accomplishments as a DJ, he has had considerable success in the studio, with over 70 releases to his name since his first release, Critical Mass (with Stakka), in 1999.

Friction also heads up his own record label, Shogun Audio.  Artists within the Shogun stable include State of Mind, Klute, Teebee, Noisia, Baron, and many more world class producers.

#2: DJ Friction is also an german HipHop-DJ. Together with an MC and a singer, he formed his first hip-hop band called Raw Diamenz.
Raw Diamenz soon broke up due to musical differences of opinion. But by this time Friction's skills as a producer were so far advanced that he not only supplied Stuttgart's entire young cats with beats and passed his skills on to them, but also experimented with other styles. He conquered British dancefloors with a jungle version of James Brown's "I feel Good" (Eastwest), the "Pulp Friction" EP (Gap Rec.) caused a stir with its instrumental hip-hop beats, for the first time he produced a house track for the EP "The Difference" (Continuemusic) and together with Don Philippe (Freundeskreis) and Thommy Wittinger released the electro track "Rock the Most" under the project name "DJ FK" in 1998.

Since the mid-1990s, DJ Friction has been storming the German, Swiss, Austrian charts with Freundeskreis. Following two studio albums, a live LP and two gold records, DJ Friction set to work on his own baby, "Science Friction," – a strictly hip-hop album including feature contributions from Germany's main MCs which he also produced.

DJ Friction's latest creation – which stands on its own with virtually no features – is simply called "Friction", a mix of his musical roots blended with fresh new sounds. On this record DJ Friction is more prominent as a DJ and producer than ever before. He likes to regard this as his actual first album. Whether it's disco, electro, big beat, instrumental hip-hop, funk, soul or hip-hop, Friction makes his mark as a universal beatmaker of the first order, creating another benchmark in DJ culture. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Friction">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.