“Let’s make a MOVIE!” These are the words exclaimed by DJ Holiday as he describes the experience his fans will engage in while partying at one of his events or listening to his mixtapes. It’s monumental, effervescent and completely experiential, enhancing your senses to visualize the arrangement of the music in your ears as it captivates your mind.

Robert Avery was born in Germany and raised in the East Atlanta neighborhood of Decatur. While pursuing his education at Southwest Dekalb High School and later attending Fort Valley State University, Avery spent his spare time as a DJ for various parties, often receiving little-to -no compensation to build his credibility. In order to further push his name recognition, DJ Holiday formed the party promotion collective, Plush Blue Entertainment with his current business partners Plush Blue is responsible for some of the hottest parties in Atlanta with notable celebrities, music industry tastemakers and droves of young twenty-something partygoers.

As co — owner , host & Dj for Plush Blue Entertainment parties Holidays  buzz  grew  quickly, gaining him the attention of DJ Drama (The Aphilliates ). Holiday joined the dj crew and started the mixtape series ‘Holiday Season dropping his first classic mixtape Gucci Mane’s Ea Sportcenter among others. In , 2009 DJ Holiday  worked with Gorilla Zoe on his Feeding Time mixtape as a promotional tool for the artist’s sophomore release, Don’t Feed Da Animals, Gucci Mane’s Writings on the Wall (recorded the day of  Gucci’s highly anticipated prison release) and Nicki Minaj’s (Lil Wayne-Young Money Records signee) Beam Me Up Scotty mixtape. Gaining Holiday  national network exposure by being featured numerous times on MTV’s Mixtape Daily with Gucci Mane, OJ the Juiceman and Nicki Minaj respectively. Amongst the southern hip hop community, DJ Holiday has been recognized as the Radio One Inc. Dirty Award’s Mixtape DJ of the Year, TJs DJs Mixtape DJ of the Year, MTV’s Breathrough DJ of the Year and national feature profiles in XXL, Hip Hop Weekly and Ozone Magazine. Holiday lives by the acumen, “I live and die by working harder than the next man, pushing myself to the end …not thinking about who’s behind me or in front of me…I’ll see you at the top!”

In  2010  DJ Holiday released Holiday Season 3 which produced 1.5 million downloads in 24 hours, Burrprint 2.0 HD which was a number one  selling hip hop album according to soundscan ,he released his first single Trapped Out off his upcoming ep “we working” ,was the house DJ for the B.E.T hip hop music awards and was named 2010 DJ of the year by MTV. DJ Holiday recently started the imprint Commission Music Group with his manager Stix Malone & co manager KD, the company  is already gaining alot of buzz with the signing of its  first artist 15 year old Raz Fresco from Toronto Canada . In the next five years, DJ Holiday will  sure have his hand in everything from phone apps, music, film , endorsements the sky’s the limit . It is certain that DJ Holiday is laying the foundation to be one of the most respected DJs in music…WE WORKING <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Holiday">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.