Over the past decade, the hip-hop turntablist has gained immense popularity and mainstream recognition. No doubt, one deejay at the forefront of this movement is Queens-born JS-1. One half of the infamous team with Rahzel, ex-beatboxer of The Roots, JS-1 has released 3 albums, “Ground Original,” “Claimstake,” & “Audio Technician” through Fatbeats Distribution, Bomb Records and Studio Distribution. All three albums feature a bevy of hip-hop heavy-hitters, including Common,KRS-1, Kool G Rap, Big Daddy Kane, Royce Da 5’9”, OC, Masta Ace, Casual, Evidence of Dilated Peoples, Jeru Da Damaja, Dice Raw of The Roots, Prince Poetry of Organized Konfusion, Planet Asia, Tragedy Khadafi, Ill Bill of Non-Phixion, J-Live, C-Rayz Walz, and Supernatural to name just a few.

Over the past decade, the hip-hop turntablist has gained immense popularity and mainstream recognition. No doubt, one deejay at the forefront of this movement is Queens-born JS-1. One half of the infamous team with Rahzel, ex-beatboxer of The Roots, JS-1 has released 3 albums, “Ground Original,” “Claimstake,” & “Audio Technician” through Fatbeats Distribution, Bomb Records and Studio Distribution. All three albums feature a bevy of hip-hop heavy-hitters, including Common,KRS-1, Kool G Rap, Big Daddy Kane, Royce Da 5’9”, OC, Masta Ace, Casual, Evidence of Dilated Peoples, Jeru Da Damaja, Dice Raw of The Roots, Prince Poetry of Organized Konfusion, Planet Asia, Tragedy Khadafi, Ill Bill of Non-Phixion, J-Live, C-Rayz Walz, and Supernatural to name just a few.


 

For JS, the road to making these records has been a long, but eventful one. In 2001, JS set himself apart from all the other turntablists by working with some of the biggest names in hip-hop and releasing many unforgettable singles. Just take, “Essentials,” the (2001) track featuring KRS-ONE and Rahzel and “Take A Loss” (2001) featuring Kool G Rap. In 2002, he dropped “Beyond”, featuring OC, “Licensed 2 Ill” featuring Ill Bill of Non-Phixion, and “While I’m Dancin” featuring Common. In 2003, his cuts “Guess” featuring Rahzel and “Won’t Stop” featuring Jeru Da Damaja were guaranteed underground classics. In 2004, The Audio Technician 12” single with Immortal Technique dropped on Bomb records. In the same year, JS-1 also mixed and co-produced Rahzel’s first all-beatbox mix cd on Sureshot records. That mix cd featured FunkMaster Flex, RZA, Everlast, Black thought and many more. In total, JS has released over 8 singles, 3 albums, and 5 break records, and countless classic mix cd’s, all between 2000 and 2006. In 2005, DJ JS-1 has used his time in between making new albums and touring, to go back to his mixtape roots. In 2005 JS-1 released “Mashed Potatoes”, an all-mash-up mix cd, and “In Da Tunk”, which made the SOURCE magazine top 5 mix cd’s. Now, in 2006, JS has released “THE COMMON COLLECTION” hosted by COMMON, and his latest break record, Scratch Roulette 2. The first Scratch Roulette is one of the best selling DJ sound fx records ever! In 2007 JS has released the first-ever “all mp3 battle record” through fatbeats distribution.

Born and raised in Queens, NY, the 30 year old beat maker has been spinning since the golden era of the late 80’s. Throughout the 90s, JS honed his craft by challenging (and beating) other deejays in local battles, releasing some of the underground’s hottest mix-tapes, and appearing on scratch albums like the Return of the DJ series on Bomb Records.

In 1999, JS got the opportunity of a lifetime: MTV’s DJ Skribble asked him to appear on the acclaimed show “Deejay Day” during the high profile “Hip Hop Week.” Soon after, the network asked JS to spin for their “Campus Invasion Tour ’99.” Most notably, the next year JS performed live from Times Square on the “MTV New Years Eve Millenium Special” for millions of tv viewers. JS was the first DJ to scratch for 2 minutes straight on live tv, and then perform a 3 man dj routine at 11:45pm LIVE in Times Square in front of hundreds of thousands of people, and aired on MTV around the globe simultaneously!!!

But “Deejay Day” proved even more telling for JS-1. While filming for MTV, JS met his partner Rahzel, the legendary beat boxer, who was also filming for MTV that day. The chemistry was undeniable and the two have worked together ever since, performing at over 700 shows worldwide, in  5 continents, and more than 30 countries. Their show is the only two-man, beatbox-DJ group in the world. You must see DJ JS-1 scratch records with his feet to believe it’s real! Now in 2007, Rahzel & JS1 have included MC Supernatural and they have formed a side-group called ”The Magnificents.” Performing an “all freestyle / all improvised show”, THE MAGNIFICENTS (Rahzel * JS1 * Supernatural) have already toured around the planet.

JS-1’s MTV time led to more small screen gigs. In 2000, he did commercials for BET’s video show ‘Rap City’. Later, JS was able to spin on 5 different episodes on BET, including shows with the HOT BOYS, RASS KASS, RAHZEL, KILLAH PRIEST, DEAD PREZ, and others. In addition, JS worked with TWIX, MIXWELL, REDBULl, ADIDAS,MOSSIMO, HBO, TNN, KOOL CIGARETTES,  and more. Throughout the years of touring, JS has also performed and appeared on countless foreign television shows in Germany,Italy, Japan, UK, The Netherlands, and more. In 2007 JS-1 was approached with another major opportunity to be on live TV. He was the first ever DJ to perform and be interviewed on the “REGIS & KELLY” morning show to millions of live viewers. This TV appearance in July of 2007 has already lead to other opportunities, such as JS-1 being considered for the co-host/dj for the ELLEN show on NBC.

In 2002, DJ JS-1 was initiated into the World Famous, Legendary ROCK STEADY CREW. This is one of the biggest honors a true school hip-hopper can be given. Along with his Rocksteady membership, and long list of touring and recording credits, DJ JS-1 is also a major figure in the graffiti scene. JS has been doing graff since the late 80’s and is one of the best graff artists to ever come from Queens, NY. He has done hundreds of pieces at every hall of fame, and even in other countries like Australia, Italy, and Holland. JS has been in several graff magazines, including a recent 4-page layout in Elemental Magazine, featuring over 50 of his master-pieces. Some of his newer graff was the main feature in the recently released hit video “Peanutbutter N Jelly” now in heavy rotation on all major video shows.

Today, JS is regarded as the hardest working and one of the most gifted (and fiercest) turntablist / producer in the game. Besides his own albums, “GROUND ORIGNAL”, “Claimstake”, and “Audio Technician”, JS has two new albums coming in 2007/08. The new “GROUND ORIGINAL 2” features guest appearances by Ultramagnetic MCs, KRS-ONE, Soulive, Masta Ace, Jedi Mind Tricks’ Vinnie Paz, Aesop Rock, C-Rayz Walz, QN5, Rakaa of Dilated Peoples, Termanology, Punchline, Wordsworth, Supastishun, CL Smooth, Edo G, Craig G, Sadat X of Brand Nubians, AG, J-Live, Vast Aire of Cannibal Ox, Akrobatik, Rahzel, and many more. JS will also release a full length DVD, “What the F*ck did U do?”,  showing tons of never before scene show footage, graffiti, and touring footage, etc.

 Along with producing songs, JS has also dropped a Mash-up remix record with AV8 Records. AV8 is known world-wide to be the leader in party breaks. JS has released the first official mash-up record with them in 2005. It features tracks with Busta Rhymes, Eminem, Missy, Usher and more.

 Also, JS has recently began releasing more classic mix cd’s. He has already been in SOURCE (hottest mixtape of the month), SCRATCH (hottest mix of the month), MTV.com (mixtape Mondays mixtape of the week), TABLIST (best mix cd’s of all-time), and many more. Look out for more classic mix cd’s to add on to his already impressive list (flashbacks, mashed-potatoes, cold cutz remixes, brainwashed, east coast invasion, in da trunk, greatest knockouts, etc…)The most recent CD was the “official rock steady crew 30th anniversary cd.”

 Touring has always been the major part of JS-1’s acclaim, and 2006/07 was another show-packed year. For 6 months straight DJ JS-1 has toured Europe twice, The entire United States (with John Legend, Common, & De La Soul), and then all of Australia with Redman, Methodman, and DJ Premier. We have opened for the Beastie Boys and Snoop Dogg on tour as well, and headlined at SONAR Festival in Spain (one the largest festivals in the world) all in the past year only.
 With the new releases on the way, 2007/08, looks to be another year of touring the world. This time around look out for new Rahzel material along with DJ JS-1 unveiling his “turntable guitar” and live MPC battle vs. Rahzel!

It is safe to say, that DJ JS-1 (rock steady crew), is one of the only djays to ever release and produce his own albums, 12” singles, mix cd’s, sound fx records, party break records, and maintain a schedule that keeps him touring more than half of the year.
Be on the look-out for one of the last few remaining “true” djays to be spinning in your hometown this year!!!!!!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dj+JS-1">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.