Dj Mangoo / Mangoo is Swedish songwriter & producer Mattias Brånn from Orbyhus, middle Sweden.

Mattias Brånn started his career 16 years old, reaching over 10.000.000 downloads with the solo dance-act Dj Mangoo. 
In the early 2000 the popular song “Eurodancer” grew into a culture dance classic. In the scandinavian areas he appeared on countless radio and tv shows. 
Mattias Brånn also outbeat Madonna, Linkin' Park and other top artists on the biggest mp3 site of its time - mp3.com. 

In 2005 Mattias started to work together with the italian superstar Paolo Meneguzzi and italian songwriter Dino Melotti to compose a new album. The album “Musica” (Music) was released in marts 2007 and have sold Platina!!
The first single written by Mattias Brånn, has topped the italian radiocharts and was also performed infront of 20.000.000 tv viewers at italys biggest music-festival Sanremo. 

During the recording of “Musica” Mattias Brånn Worked together with Grammy Award winner Matt Howe (Westlife, Boyzone, Rolling Stones, Lauryn Hill) who did the soundengineering. In the middle of the summer of 2007 Musica got re-released as a Duet together with the english soul-star Nate James(nominated for best soul-act at 2007 years Urban music awards). 

In 2008 Mattias Brann was once again back to Italy/Switzerland to work with the popstar and great friend Paolo Meneguzzi. 
The new album "Corro Via" was released with new tracks by the team Mattias Brånn, Paolo Meneguzzi, Dino Melotti and the new lyrics-writer Gatto Panceri.

----------------------------
"I imagine that many of you out there wonders: "What happend? Where did you go?". To make a long story short: 
I started to write my Mangoo songs back around 1999/2001 and published them for free on mp3.com.     

During my years on that website i got over 10.000.000 downloads, wich also generated a buck or 2.. Back then i was 16 years old and all i could think of was to invest the money in studiogear, wich i did. 

My dream for many years was to write pop and rnb music and i have done so and with many various projects. Now i am, after 7 years.. Putting a new Mangoo album together! 
Thanks for supporting my songs! Warmest regards // Mattias Brånn (Mattias Brånn_2007)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dj+Mangoo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.