Sven Greiner aka DJ Shog was born in Hamburg, Germany in 1976. In the middle of the nineties he began to develop his interest for electronic music and deejaying. After the usual first steps at school- and private-parties DJ Shog entered several DJ-Contests, which took him to his first residency jobs in the north of Germany.

His breakthrough into the world’s music scene came with the start of his own double-cd compilation-series "Technics-DJ-Set". Therefore one CD was mixed by himself and the other one by well-known guests like Cosmic Gate, Dumonde, Talla 2XLC, Green Court and many others.

The 14th edition of this series now offers something completely new. Both cds are mixed by DJ Shog himself. The reason for this lies in his two-faced musical creativity. The "DJ Shog face" shows the more mainstream orientated trance/hardtrance sound while the "2Faces face" goes more into a progressive trance direction.

Back in summer 2004 the mix-cd "Trance Visions" already showed these two faces. With CD1 he presented the so called Main-Floor and with CD2 the Trance-Floor.

For his single "Running Water" an official 2Faces mix was released for the first time, which was made to be an alternative to the more mainstream original. And this idea seemed to be great. The original mix became a real top seller in Germany and the 2Faces mix went right into the cases of some major players like Paul van Dyk or DJ Tiesto.

Besides the 2Faces mix of "Kindervater Sternenweg 5", which also got as much international dj-plays, another mix for Paul van Dyks Vandit Rec. will see the light during the next days (Kuffdam&Plant Dreammakers).

The man behind DJ Shog is involved and leading in many other projects. Together with the E-Cutz team he has made three anthems for Nature One, the biggest German open-air dance event (Summer Sound System 2002, Alive&Kickin 2003 and The Golden 10 2004).

Beside others he is also responsible for the new started project "Dream Dance Alliance", which will produce the anthems for the most successful and senior Dream Dance compilations. The first tunes "Bells of Heaven" and "Ayers Rock" already became true club anthems.

DJ Shog is a demanded remixer as well and so he became a solid part of the dance-scene through his work for DJ Sammy, Cappella, CJ Stone, Three Drives, AYU, DJ Tatana, Ian van Dahl, Lasgo, Ernesto vs. Bastian and Filo&Peri. But what really made him big in the scene were his countless gigs at the big events and festivals like Nature One, Streetparade, Love Parade, G-Move, Energy, Nautilus, Goliath, MDR Sputnik Turntabledays and Airbeat One. There DJ Shog had proven true international standard. There he had spun his international network. And that's the reason he is now always on the run to present his sound to the people around the globe.

In the middle of 2005 restless Sven Greiner set up his own imprint called 7th Sense Records. This label is now the platform for his own productions with producer companions and also in the near future for releases of talented newcomers.

Under the significant title "My Sound" the long awaited DJ Shog debut album was released in the beginning of 2006. The teaser-single "Jelousy" was a download single release only for the first time and is only available on the album and on the "Technics-DJ-Set 14" compilation also.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Shog">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.