Since 1990, DJ Sakin has been turning vinyls. He was a DJ in the most popular Clubs Resident, among others in the Wartburg (Wiesbaden/1990) and later until 1993 in the MusicHall (Frankfurt). That is where some other well-known DJs such as Michael Münzing (Snap), Taucher or Mark Spoon also started their career.
At the age of 16, Sakin began with DJing, he had always wanted to play music and DJing was his biggest dream! His sets comprise trancy sounds and hard beat. In his private life, Saking likes listening to hits from Depeche Mode - especially after long nights of playing. Meanwhile, Sakin is one of the most popular DJs and he also often puts on Raves. With their first single hit "Protect Your Mind (Braveheart), DJ Sakin & Friends even succeeded to come third in the Charts. With this place in the Charts, "Protect Your Mind (Braveheart)" is the most successful trance hymn of the year 1998 and even reached gold level.
That was an excellent start of the new Intercord-owned dance-label CLUB TUNES, which led DJ Sakin & Friends together with the team of Overdose Productions into the German Charts.
Van Bellen & AYLA set to work and gave the hit single a face-lift. The Planet-Radio-Mix made the remix-package perfect.
After a small private gold party for "Protect Your Mind (Braveheart)", DJ Sakin and his friends - eager to work - felt drawn back to their recording studio. DJ SAKIN & FRIENDS "Nomansland (David's Song)" was born.
"Nomansland (David's Song)" was visually transformed into a romantic desert video clip and was immediately convincing with VIVA-Voriage. DJ Sakin & Friends were also able to delight the TV audience with their massive presence on TV, e.g. in "Top Of The Pops" - "Clubrotation" - "Interaktiv" - "Chart Attack" and many more.
A cooperation with Vanessa Mae and Run DMC brought a similar success for DJ Sakin.
Until today, DJ Sakin has been a steady member of the Overdose Family and tours the whole globe. Sakin has some more projects with different artists on the starting line, e.g. With Mason & Shepherd - Schwarze Puppen -Three Kings- Dj Shah -S2 or "2OU-DJ Gabriel Nourai" etc.    2006  Sakin & Friends goes to Kontor Rec. !!!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Sakin+&+Friends">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.