Coming up from nothing to something is a hell of an accomplishment, that's why when it comes to DJ SPINN that feat is highly attainable. Starting out at the early age of 14, SPINN already had his mind set on future goals when it came to music. Whether writing, dj'ing, dancing or producing SPINN always stayed on top of his game. In 1997 while dancing with Chicago's infamous "House-O-Matics", Spinn gained a honorable rep dj'ing for one of Chicago's number 1 dance groups. Also in the same year obtained dj gigs for the biggest teen parties in Chicago including: Club Cavilini's in Harvey, Dolton Expo, Markham Roller Rink, The Rink on 87th and numerous house parties and school events. So by 1998, SPINN had a following that loved the style of house tracks he and long time buddy DJ RASHAD were creating so SPINN got an opportunity to drop one of his house tracks(Bout It Bout It Mix) to vinyl(aka a 12" record) with Ray Barney's "Dance Mania Records" on a DJ THADZ album and co-produced(Kick That Shit Off) on the same album. SPINN was also featured("Muthafuka" a Paul Johnson Remake) on Chi-Town's cult house mix "Bang Bang Bang, Skeet Skeet Skeet" album which also featured DJ RASHAD(Child Abuse Track). Gaining more production credits on local mixtapes and dj credit at the parties it was only a matter of time before SPINN & RASHAD got their chance to grace Chicago's number 1 dance music distributor but in late 1999, early 2000 "Dance Mania Records" had stopped distribution of the 20 years plus company which was responsible for blowing up dj's & producers like Traxman, DJ Funk, Jammin Gerald, Paul Johnson, DJ Deeon, DJ Milton, DJ Slugo, DJ Nephets, DJ PJ & DJ Gantman to name a few. Since 2000 Chicago's house scene has evolved into what is now know as "JUKE MUSIC" and the "JUKE" movement is growing day by day, city by city and at the front of the line are DJ SPINN, DJ RASHAD, DJ Clent, GANT-MAN & DJ Nephets bringing the style & flavor of the ol'school mixed with the energy & emotion of the new school. You can tune into Power92.3 to check out our latest tracks and check out our web-sites and purchase our cd's. So all you guys out there that think "house music" is dead think twice because these guys got now, you'll see what's next.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJ+Spinn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.