"DJ Smash" is the name of 2 respective DJs.

(1.) DJ Smash (Russian musician)

*Andrey Leonidovich Shirman (Russian: Андрей Леонидович Ширман; born 23 May 1982), better known by his stage name DJ Smash, is a Russian DJ who writes electronic music.
Shirman started his career at the age of 14 when he graduated from musical school while taking computer lessons. After a year, he released his debut album and released his second album two years later in 1999.
In 2005, Shirman took the name DJ Smash and started working as a resident DJ in the "Zima Project" club in Irkutsk. Later, he became a resident DJ in the following Moscow clubs: "Лето", "Осень", "First", "Дяgilev" and "Movida" in London.
He gained great popularity with the release of single Moscow Never Sleeps in 2007, which got into the rotation of Russia's largest radio station Europa Plus and music channels - Muz-TV and MTV. In 2008, a new version of the hit was recorded in collaboration with Timati. The song was performed on the Muz-TV Awards, together with 30 Seconds To Mars, Morandi, Jennifer Lopez and stars of the Russian pop scene.
In 2008, the most widely known single Волна (Volna, Wave) was released following a music video of a remixed version by DJ Antoine & Yoko.
DJ Smash's first music video in 2009, Лучшие песни (Luchshye pesni, Best songs) was from the album IDDQD. It is noteworthy that in this composition, vocals of DJ Smash were used. rapper Сява also took part in the video. As before, the director of video was Pavel Khudyakov.
In June 2009 DJ Smash together with Alex Gaudino and Dhany recorded a new version of Moscow Never Sleeps with Alex Gaudino and Dhany.
Many of DJ Smash's tracks feature his project, Fast Food.

**DJ Smash, the resident DJ of the most popular Moscow VIP night clubs, such as "Shambala", "Zima Project", "Leto", "Osen`". The author and ideological inspirer of Shambala-Ensemble, he also wrote the hymn of Night Life Awards 2005 ceremony. Hits such as "Pasha face-control" and "Doctor Shoo" are also his works.
This year - DJ Smash was awarded as the best Russian club DJ on the Night Life Awards 2006. 
Composer, remixer and producer he has recorded more then 40 remixes on the songs of A.Pugacheva, F.Kirkorov, S.Rotaroo, "Discoteka Avaria", "Mirage", I.Dubcova, Y.Shatunov, I.Nikolaev and others.
In 2005 DJ Smash was the leading DJ on the Hottest Parties In Moscow, he also played in Paris ("La Suite"), Kurshavel ("La Grange", "Purple"), London ("Elvisium", "VIP Room", "Nikky Beach"(St.Tropez)) and in many Russian clubs.

(2.) DJ Smash aka Smash Hunter (born Wayne Allen Hunter, December 1, 1961 in Manhattan, New York) is an internationally-respected DJ, music producer, remixer and project consultant. His first records were released in 1989 as Transphonic by defunct indie dance label Nu Groove Records founded by Karen and Frank Mendez along with R&B/Dance producers Burrell. 
He co-founded New York indie dance label Eightball Records (1990) producing 4 releasess (Jazzy Grooves Vol. 1&2, Jazz Not Jazz and Transphonix) for the imprint. In 1992 he co-founded New Breed Records with partner Asia Love. As A&R and creative director of the imprint, he signed artists, compiled singles, EPs and full length releases. And as a producer/artist released over 30 of his own titles under various production aliases such as Jazz Not Jazz Massive, Yardboy, 2Much, JB, Cubian and Transphonix. 
He's compiled and remixed internationally released projects for labels such as Blue Note Records and Instinct/Acid Jazz Records. Remix credits include works by Stevie Wonder, Marvin Gaye, Bobby McFerrin, Medeski Martin & Wood,Roy Ayers, Herbie Hancock, Guru's Jazzmatazz, Donald Byrd, Bob Belden Project feat. Cassandra Wilson and Dianne Reeves, Groove Collective and many others. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dj+Smash">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.