There are multiple artists named Djinn:

1) Djinn is an industrial / dark ambient solo project from Venice, Italy, founded in 1999 by Alex Vintras. His music combines the atmospheric layers and reverberations prominent in dark ambient music, and combines it with the experimentation and rhythmic qualities of second-wave industrial music. His work is known to commonly use samples from multiple sources, be it field recordings of Gregorian chants, audio clips from famous films, or even snippets of classical compositions.

2) Djinn is a group based in Brooklyn, NY, Unites States. Their style, described as "East Coast Tribal", ranges from traditional Middle Eastern to an experimental blending of traditional instruments with electronics and human beatbox. Their first album, titled "The Middle East Side", was released in 2006. The follow-up, titled "The Silent D", was released in 2009, continuing with the theme of contemporary interpretation of traditional sounds. Official site: http://www.djinnnyc.com

3) DJINN  Not unlike the supernatural deities from which they take their name, DJINN - the Swedish collective featuring members of Hills and GOAT in their ranks - have proven themselves a potent and mysterious force. Their first release for Rocket Recordings was a portrait of open-minded explorers foraying into the realms of free and cosmic jazz, but never overly reverential or in thrall to their own influences.
Following the ‘Avant De Servir’ tape which was released on Swedish label Zeon Light last year, ‘Transmission’ is a still more intrepid step into new terrain for DJINN - the mantric rhythms are hypnotic here, the freeform extrapolations hit new peaks of vivid abandon, and the moments of calm are blissfully meditative. Yet their sound palette extends into refreshing collisions of intent and metaphysical intensity that echo across the psychic landscapes of Sunburned Hand Of The Man-style freak-folk, as well as the polylingual fusion of jazz, European and Asian music that Don Cherry essayed on 1969’s ‘Eternal Rhythm’ and 1973’s ‘Organic Music Society’.
Amidst these intoxicating and richly eclectic soundworlds, the band are just as comfortable invoking Popol Vuh (as on the mellotron- abetted title track) Art Ensemble Of Chicago and the lineage of Swedish underground music that found epiphanies in the radical folk-psych of Arbete Och Fritid whilst also sounding - crucially - like no-one but themselves.
For all the far-reaching explorations of altered states by which DJINN set out their stall, this collection of mystical headspaces - in all its fearless and feral glory - is proof positive that the band’s journey has only just begun. This transmission is set to ring out across dimensions unknown. 

4) Djinn is a UK dubstep / drum n bass / jungle DJ and producer, established 2004. Having held two previous long-standing radio shows (Dubterrain / KM) a monthly residency on Swiss radio SRF Virus in 2012, she has played at countless events across the UK; reaching Europe since 2007, headlining & supporting in countries such as the Czech Republic, Belgium, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Spain and most recently Croatia. She has released tracks on Subdepth Records and Mindstep Music. Official site: http://www.djdjinn.com

5) Djinn is a solo UK-based singer, songwriter producer and composer who found acclaim after featuring on the hit charity single, Donasian, alongside A.R Rahman and Mukhtar Sahota.. This was later followed but the release of his debut album Just A Thought, also featured on mainstream media such as Channel 4, Sky and others. Official sites: http://www.djinnmusic.co.uk and http://www.myspace.com/djinnmusic

6) Djinn is a thrash / speed / black metal band. Originally founded in Split, Croatia under the name Evil Blood. They relocated to London, England and changed name to Lord of Darkness.
They changed named to Djinn and relocated to Glenrothes, Scotland in 1995. In 2007 the former Venom drummer Abaddon joined the band. In August 2009 they changed their name back to Evil Blood.

7) Djinn is a band from Groningen, Netherlands, active in the late 1970s / early 1980s. They released one full-length album titled "Tip-Toe Through the Backdoor" in 1979. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Djinn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.