DJs@Work - those are the three DJs and maker Herby F, Lenny McDustin and Ole van Dansk.  

Ole and Lenny already knew each other from school time and had worked together for productions for Area and its Label Vinyl Vibes Records.  A year later they became acquainted with Herby F, who luckily at that time also already was a producer for tunnel Records and its Label trance formation Records and, additionally, worked as event and graduation manager!  

Only a short time later the three got together and the DJs@caused were born!  Success came soon.  Immediately the first Single "Rhythm & Drums 2001" was placed in the Media Control Sales Charts, first under the project name and later in collaboration with "DJ speech 5".  This lay the foundation for a rocket fast ascent to success. 

In the same year, a large breakthrough followed with the Single "Someday" –  their own interpretation of Nena's mega hit "Somehow, Somewhere, Sometime". The surprise successes appeared in the Top 5 the charts and since then they have been going from strength to strength.  

The third Single "Times 2 Wonder" "Teamwork" climbed to place 8 and their first album to position 11 on the sales charts. Even the third tie-in of album, the song "Fly With Me"  was able to conquer the sales charts.  

Thus, the DJs managed to establish themselves in the worldwide Dance scene!  Consequently they successfully toured throughout the entire world and became much sought after remixers. As a reward for the hard work, in 2002 they were nominated for the Echo and the much desired VIVA ZDF COMET award in the Dance category.  

Yet they did not rest on their laurels. They diligently kept producing and in the beginning of 2004 published their second album, "Past What's Yesterday".  The single tie-ins "Past What's Yesterday" and "Some Years Ago" made it again into the sales charts of Media Control. To the big suprise of everyone, van Danks then declard that he wanted to focus on his own projects White Style, Pointguard, Pure Pressure.  

After that a creative break was announced after four yours full of action and they concentrated on other projects, e.g. e.g. Fox Force Five, Partick Bunton, Herbert Fred Miller. 

In May 2005 they then revealed their latest suprise: They secretly had started cooperating again, and published a new single. During their separation and in their different solo projects, the three producers had significantly expanded their musical horizons- something that is clearly noticable with their new single "Your Love" with the 4 mixing House, Electrohouse and Progressive Trance!  

In their fifth year, they released the second single.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DJs+@+Work">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.