In 1985, Malikov performed two songs at the Soundtrack Concert (звуковая дорожка / Zvukovaya Dorozhka) organized by the popular Russian newspaper Moskovsky Komsomolets(Московский Комсомолец), which was his first major performance. He was a big hit with the audience and soon after the concert his songs hit the charts. In 1989, he performed the song "Until Tomorrow" (До завтра / Do Zavtra), which was his first huge success. He also played at a pop music festival in Poland. Later that year, he signed a ten-year contract.

In 1994, Malikov released his first album, Until Tomorrow (До завтра / Do Zavtra), which had been released twice previously, once in 1993 as With You (С тобой / S Toboj) and in 1992, as Searching Soul (Поиски Душа / Poiski Dusha). This was a compilation of his early hits, and the albums were nearly identical. He also released a second album in 1994, titled Come to Me (Иди ко мне / Idi Ko Mne). In 1996, Malikov released an album called Fear of Flying (Страх полета / Strah Polyeta). This was an experimental, instrumental album in the New Age vein, which turned out more successful than anticipated.

The 1998 release of My Distant Star (Звезда моя далекая / Zvezda Moya Dalokaya) saw one of his most successful singles, "You're the Only One" (Ты одна, ты такая / Ti Odna, Ti Takaya). In the video his image changed drastically, appearing with much shorter hair than previously seen, in nothing but his underwear, with a bottle of whiskey and a cigarette. His new image attracted media attention, and the album spent a significant amount of time in the Russian charts.

2000's Beads (Бисер / Biser) continued Malikov's progression as an artist, with the inclusion of several hard-hitting tracks (including the title track) favoring harder synth sounds. A first for Malikov was two sampled/remixed versions of his own songs: one from the same album, morphed into a full-on club mix; another from his prior album, My Distant Star.

A compilation of instrumentals, 2001's Game (Игра / Igra), showcased Malikov's creativity. The album contained many ethereal arrangements reminiscent of Fear of Flying. While all songs showcased his pianistic prowess, one in particular, "Wanderer" (Странник / Strannik) ends with a chilling classical climax. Perhaps the most innovative song is the 1955 standard, "Moscow Nights" (Подмосковные вечера / Podmoskovnye Vechera), backed by jazz drums and a chorus of crickets chirping in time.

2002 saw a return to Malikov's thoroughly-enjoyable pop songwriting with Love Story. A surprise at the end is a sampled/mixed dance/rap version of his early hit, "You're the Only One". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dmitry+Malikov">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.