There is more than one artist that goes by the name Dmize:

1) NYHC band from the late 80's & early 90's that had Hoya Roc (Madball) on bass.  Also the first band associated with the DMS Crew.

2) Dmize, (like batman, he hides his name), was born and raised in the city of Santa Fe, NM to a single mother, and 3 other siblings. Out of the 3, He decided to pursue his dreams, and his passions; starting at a young age. By the age of 16, he had done enough dirt most do by the time they 21, from b and e to 211 on an allsup's gas station with a watergun, just to get what he wanted. Never a man of violence, but of humbleness, he did what he had to do to eat. Or so his brain thought, was the right way to eat when backed into a corner. He grew up in the streets, his friends; common hoodlums and street kids. He experienced alot of things wrong and fucked up in the world to where he felt there was a need to let it out and do stuff with his life that was about living. 
In Jr. High, Dmize found the outlet of music. Since elementry, he had wanted to play in a band, or learn how to play the basic of instruments, the piano. He was and is still so dedicated to music, he even signed up for choir. After learning how to read music, Dmize went out and bought a keyboard, and began composing his own music. Soft melodies, to dark powerful chords. 
Rap was a big influence on Dmize. He grew up in the days of NWA, and Dr. Dre's "The Chronic era", and experienced the entire generation of Gangsta Rap. He gained influences from those artists, to Ice T, to DMX, to Spice 1, to KRS-1, Eazy E brought Bone Thugs. He even picked up into some East Coast. He got influenced by, Big L, Notorious BIG, the Beatnuts, The Alkoholiks. 2pac (he was in brooklyn at the time) Overall, he began to like rap that had meaning. One day, in 1993, a kid moved from detroit with his family to the area, we became freinds. He showed Dmize ICP and He Loved IT. So they became an influence as well. The other area of music that got Dmize's interest was Death Metal. HE LOVES THAT SHIT. He gained a few freinds in that scene and would even go to shows just to mosh in the pit and get drunk afterwards. One day, Dmize and some freinds said fuck it, and decided to make a tape. He went by the name of Blaze One. They went out and bought a radio that had a Karaoke style feature with it, and stole a microphone. they hung it from a ceiling, and jacked some instrumentals from popular artists who were putting out singles with insturmentals. in the midst of bullshit. In of 1996 , his brother, and neighbor hood friend, recorded their very first song "My Crib" to the beat of "Bow Down" by West Side Connection when they stole the single when it dropped, before the actual album came out. 4 tapes pursued. (yes cassettes. do you know what that is?? lol.) Dmize dropped the name "Blaze One" upon discovery, it was a widely popular name, quite to his contrary. 
Shit took a dark path, and Dmize had to conquer some demon's in his life. The millenium was approaching and his life was on a path to "hell" like no other. Faced with the option to move to the East Mountain area, of Albuquerque, or stay on the demon path in Santa Fe. Weighing his options he moved. He got back into school, and met some people there. 3 of them became real good friends with Dmize. Dmize showed his friends his tape and he liked it. They too wanted to make music, and were interested in either joining a band or rappin. Dmize showed him how he made music, and a new course was made. THE SEDIZTIK JEZTERZ were born. They made a tape and began to show other people at school. They grew a little following and. One fateful evening. One of the members was murdered in cold blood at a park in Albuquerque. Dmize and the remaining member, made another tape, but gave up with the entire project after a while. it just wasn't right to them. They did however. Get into the performing arts, and started doing concerts. 
During this time, we met IllNickell and Smallz One. They too were rappers, but were not into horrorcore as much as we were. They were into comedy style rappin, and crackin jokes all the time. Like IllNickell took a Chingy beat and made a song about chillin at Pizza Hut with a bunch of sluts. They quickly became friends and they started making music together. They went all out and made a group The Morbid Elements. Around the time of the Morbid Elements, everyone they knew became all about M.E. They built a stage in the backyard of a friends in Edgewood, NM and would proceed to have a few sold out shows there. They built a scene in the Albuquerque area. The 505 Underground Scene was TRULY born. They put out 2 albums as the supergroup, then disbanded as careers began to develop and take change individually. They are still friends to this day, and still make music together. Ill Format Records was a force to be reckoned with in the state of New Mexico. With many changes on the roster over a period of time, IFR put out several albums which have been great regional successes. 
Over the years, Dmize learned how to market himself, from being in the streets. His drive and his passion are unmatched to the common underground artist. Everyday, Dmize finds a way to promote himself or get himself heard in a new place. Things began to open up for him and he took into promotions, and began booking shows himself, and showcasing local talent that didnt get the chance to do show's or we're never heard of , yet just beginning. He even teamed up with other promoters to get larger named acts in, and would help promote on the streets and sell tickets. 
Watched by other promoters and talent scouts, they saw Dmize's impeccable grind mode and began booking him on major show's with acts like Tech N9ne, Prozak, Twiztid, Kottonmouth Kings, Potluck, Boondox, Hed - P.E, Dmize continues to this day to grind hard. Out of state shows under his belt. 2 Gathering of the Juggalos performances on 2nd stage, even advertised in the event program. 
Dmize has his roots in the music game, from being a fan, to being a self made entrepreneur. He knows his roots and gives respect when respect is due. He gives credit when credit is due. Even with all the crazy shit that goes on in his life, he still finds a way to remain humble. Even when his style of music is not accepted. 
Dmize is the very essence of a true artist with a passion to be heard. The state of New Mexico is proud to have him as a representative and apart of the local underground. 





















ONE OF NEW MEXICO'S MOST HATED RAPPERS, HANDS DOWN. AND BY HATED I MEAN YOU EITHER LOVE ME, OR YOU LOVE TO HATE ME........PARTICULARLY MY FRIENEMIES.
DUKE CITY DEATH CAMP FOUNDING MEMBER
ALL ABOUT THAT 505 KILLA SHIT
DESIGNER/ARTIST/PROMOTER/PRODUCER/BOOKER/AGENT
ONE OF NEW MEXICO'S HARDEST GRINDER IN THE THE GAME <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dmize">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.