Sonia Kreitzer (born September 19, 1984 in Syracuse, New York, United States), known by her stage name Doe Paoro, is an American singer-songwriter based in Los Angeles, California, United States, whose ethereal sound blends elements of pop, dubstep, soul, and R&B and bears strong influence of Lhamo, a vocally acrobatic, centuries-old Tibetan folk opera tradition. Her debut album, Slow to Love, which Paoro composed while isolated in a cabin near her hometown of Syracuse, New York, was released on February 14, 2012. She was named an artist to watch by Stereogum shortly thereafter.

Her second album, After, was released through ANTI- on September 25, 2015 to critical acclaim.
Transforming pain into transcendence is the genius of many  pop artists, but Doe Paoro  brings an entirely ne depth to that process.  On  her  third  album Soft  Power,  the  L.A.-based  singer/songwriter digs  into  her  own frustration  and  anguish,  and  ultimately  comes  away  with  a  newfound  strength  that’s  profoundly  inspiring.

A self-taught pianist and vocalist, Paoro trained in Lhamo while traveling alone through the Himalayas. During this period, she also spent several weeks practicing silent meditation, which allowed her to reflect on the "space between silence and sound." Her cover of Baltimore synthpop band Future Islands' "Little Dreamer" was released in December 2011; original singles "Can't Leave You" and "Born Whole" followed in January 2012. In 2013, Paoro released two songs on a 7" through White Iris Records.

Paoro has performed at SXSW, Osheaga, and CMJ, as well as numerous venues throughout the U.S. She often opens her live performances with an a cappella Tibetan prayer, and credits Vipassanā meditation with having a strong influence over the themes explored in her work, which include attachment, detachment, compassion, and disconnection from the human experience.

"Hypotheticals," Paoro's first track released through ANTI-, was featured on Season 4 of Girls. NPR's All Songs Considered listed Paoro on their Six Musical Discoveries You Can't Miss list.

She has been compared to Fiona Apple, James Blake, Adele, and Lykke Li, among others.

http://www.facebook.com/doepaoro
http://doepaoro.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doe+Paoro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.