Dogs Die in Hot Cars are an indie rock band from St. Andrews, Scotland consisting of members Craig Macintosh (vocals, guitar), Gary Smith (vocals, guitar), Ruth Quigley (vocals, keyboards, French horn), Lee Worrall (bass and glockenspiel) and Laurence Davey (drums and percussion).

Macintosh, Smith, Worrall and Davey all met at Madras College and began playing together in 1993 at the age of 14. After having performed under various names they settled on "Dogs Die In Hot Cars" in 1997. In 1999 they moved to Glasgow where they met Ruth Quigley to complete the line up.

In 2003 they released their Man Bites Man EP under the Radiate Records. Later that year they signed to V2 Records.

In July 2004 they released their debut album Please Describe Yourself (Produced by Clive Langer and Alan Winstanley), which included the tracks "I Love You 'Cause I Have To", "Godhopping" and "Lounger". "Godhopping" peaked at #24 on the UK Singles Chart and remains the band's biggest hit. "I Love You 'Cause I Have To" peaked at #32 on the UK Singles Chart and narrowly missed the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart in the United States. 

A song of the band's, entitled 'Nobody Teaches Life Anything' (found on 2004 release Man Bites Man EP) was used in a lengthy television advertising campaign in the UK by Boots.

In 2006, whilst recording their second album, the band announced they had disbanded

Around April 2008 the band began to release their second album demos along with their individual track files, free to download from their website for people to use to make their own versions of the songs and then send those versions back to the band. The band would then later announce a closing date, after which they are going to compile the second album using ideas from the submitted versions from their fans, and share 50% of the royalties that come from its release with everyone who has contributed towards making it. The project was called "Dogs Die In Hot Cars is making Pop Nonsense". The closing date was announced for 1 May 2009 - no information has yet been given as to how long the compiling process may take, or an estimated date of release. Although the original aim was supposed to be 2009 it is now 2010 with no release yet; however, "Demos of the as yet unreleased second album" can be streamed from their official website.

In 2010, frontman Craig Macintosh, performing under the name Moy, released his first solo album, The Lie

www.dogsdieinhotcars.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dogs+Die+in+Hot+Cars">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.