It all began in the early nineties in Sremska Kamenica, Serbia, ex YU, when the group of kids, who all went to the same Primary school, got together to make a band. Ivan Djuranin (Nasty D) on the rhythm guitar, Sasa Chuchkovic (Jimmy Danger) on solo guitar, Ivan Berklovic (Gunslinger), on the bass, Boris Popov (Mr. Rock) on the drums and Marko Trivan (Three) a vocalist. The surroundings they lived in, at the time, made them to use their music to show their discontent and to say out loud all they were thinking about. Finally after the years spent in playing and just hanging out together in the garage, with no serious intent to make this any more professional, in 2001 first invitations came from their older colleges DMT and KOROZIJA and their first live performances. The band finally got a name MIGHTY DOGZ!!! After the few gigs, the band has a real repertoire, mostly made out of author compositions and of those bands they most frequently loved to play to themselves. KOMANDANT ADAM, who was following their work from the beginning, is taking them to his studio, in November of the same year, where their first demo recordings are made. The band successfully continues working, now already independent, having solo gigs all over Serbia, as well as playing at few music festivals in Serbia, DEMO TAXIRAT in Skopje (Macedonia) and are becoming a regular performer at the EXIT music festival in Novi Sad. The band is still actively participating in concerts and to this day the only obstacle in performing outside the country was their commitment to their homeland (aka a year of Military). In 2007 instead of Marko Trivan Tri comes Aleksandar Tepic (Alex Lestat), also their schoolmate and a fan of the band. Beside the singer, the band changed a name as well into THE DOGZ. Untill now they’ve recorded: "POSITIVELY SICK" a tribute to the Humpers On the streets of Serbia (2007.) With NEW Singer. Compilaton "ROCK ’EM BACK" + 3 Live Bonus tracks! - Published for "Basement Blues Records" ( 2006.) "SERBIAN GUITAR ATTACK!" Published for "Basement Blues Records" ( 2006.) Compilation. "10. Bombardiranje New Yorka" Slusaj Najglasnije, CRO 2004. Only for former YU. Compilation. The album "ROCK ’EM BACK" was recorded at Komandant Adam during the spring 2003. Produced, engineered & mixed by Adam & Mica. Rock City Novi Sad (2002) Compilation. Published for SLUSAJ NAJGLASNIJE RECORDS (CRO) At this moment they are rehearsing for a new album with a new singer, which they will record at the STUDIO ADAM, Sremska Kamenica, which will be produced in cooperation of KOMANDANT ADAM and THE DOGZ. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dogz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.