A pun for a band name might not be novel thing in the growing world of indie rock, but then again, that was never really something that mattered to Michael Eliran.  When Michael first designated “Dolly Spartans” as the namesake of his current songwriting vehicle, he had one goal in mind.  He did not want to blow away the critics with pretentious, avant-garde, “art”, but rather to make something he could enjoy with his friends, something all of the other people going through that same awkward transitional phase in life could get lost in and relate to.  So Michael stepped away from his piano, picked up his jazzmaster, and Dolly Spartans began.
After releasing their first, self-titled EP, made up of tracks indebted to the gritty, and garage-heavy sounds of his childhood home of New York City (see: who else but the Strokes obviously), tragedy struck the band.  Dolly’s lead guitarist, and one of Michael’s closest friends, Christopher Elmer, passed away.  Taking some time off to cope with this lose, Michael slowly began to come to terms with it the only way he knew how, through music.  Having been an active participant in the New York music scene from a young age, centered around the creative community of Laguardia High School, Michael had written a fully-developed folk album by the time he was fourteen and even managed to snag a spot on the Howard Stern Show.  Music runs in Eliran’s blood.  Who introduced him first to music but his own father, legendary singer Ran Eliran, the man considered by many to be the Middle Eastern “Ambassador of Song”.  Michael spent many nights in childhood performing with his father, both at home and abroad.
Armed with a new five-song EP, dedicated to and written for Chris, and a powerful new live lineup rounded out by new lead guitarist Jesse Barovick and the always steady rhythm section of Max Beirne-Shafer and Steven Bartoshev, Michael brought Dolly back, shining and brand new.  The new tracks deal with how to memorialize and appreciate a friend while still living one’s own life, and finding it in oneself to take advantage of their own youth.  Combine this personal message with Eliran’s almost unnatural ability to churn out perfectly singable melodies backed up by cathartic, guitar-driven instrumentals and Dolly Spartans have found themselves reborn as quite a force to reckon with. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dolly+Spartans">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.