There are multiple artists named Dolmen:

1) Dolmen is a folk metal band from Wilde, Argentina. They Released their first full-length in 2011, titled "Anhelos Ancestrales". Their lyrical themes are about Irish history and tales.

2) Dolmen is an ambient project from the United States, born as a collaboration between Skean Dhu label founder Steven K. Smith and SloBor Media label co-founder Jason Sloan. Sloan who is based in Baltimore, and Smith who is based in Cleveland, work in a long distance collaborative effort with the Dolmen project.
Dolmen receives its warm, dark and dense organic sound by using a variety of traditional instrumentation. Many experimental electronic analog and digital elements are implemented post production to enhance the sound complexity. Since Ritual Awakening was released in April 2002, it has received critical acclaim for its forging of new territory in the dark-tribal-ambient field. Dolmen is a sonic experience of dense sound walls, minimal ambiance, and tribal fury. Varied and diverse, Dolmen have created their own dark etnho ambient world. The duo have progressed and expanded the sound worlds of Dolmen with their follow up release titled "Terra Firma". Beautiful sound elegance is coupled with dark, punishing ceremonial overtones. Smith and Sloan have set their sights with Terra Firma to redefine the tribal ambient landscape forever. The third and final Dolmen album is expected to be released 2008.

3) Dolmen is a folk rock band from Czech Repubblic. They relased only one album so far, titled "Rock". Members include: Tomáš Trapl (vocals), Tomáš Valášek (guitar, pan flute), Miky Nop (drums), Prokop Saidl (bass), Tomáš Pavelka (guitar) and Vladimír Zelenka (violin)

4) Dolmen is a medieval folk rock band from Weymouth, Dorset, UK. They incorporate elements of Celtic, folk, pagan-themed, and historically based musical works into their largely original repertoire. Group members are: singer-songwriter and founder Tony "Taloch" Jameson, flautist and vocalist Keri Pinney, guitarist / vocalist / lyricist Josh Elliott, bassist / vocalist Kayleigh Marchant, drummer Chris Jones, and occasional percussionist Chris Pinney. In 2012, the band was enhanced with the addition of a second flautist and backup vocalist, Ellie Goldsack.
Essential, but non-musician members of the band are lyric contributor and collaborator, Mark Vine; sound engineer Kirsty Kelly, Richard Edwards, Tour Manager and Marloes Visser, General Manager.
The majority of the band's songs and music are composed and produced by multi-instrumentalist Jameson. Guitarist Josh Elliott has collaborated with Jameson on the most recent albums, contributing lyrics, musical composition and production assistance.

5) Dolmen was the original name of black metal / thrash metal band ABSU. They formed in 1989 and changed their name to ABSU in 1991. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dolmen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.