Hailing from East Hartford, Connecticut, Dom McLennon provides a fresh, unique sound. His optimistic hip hop exudes brilliance, taking a postmodern approach to rapping, writing, and producing. 19-year-old McLennon’s first full-length mixtape LIVN is a pastiche of sounds, combining the styles that inspired him with those of his environment to create a new, all-inclusive experience in the hip hop world. 
With influences ranging from Pharrell, Kid Cudi, and the early works of Nas to Bob Marley, Bob Dylan, and the poetry of Duke Ellington, diversity is key in McLennon’s music. His vocal skill, writing, and production directly reference Eminem, Tech N9ne and Kendrick Lamar while reflecting what’s popular in the mainstream by Mac Miller and Wiz Khalifa – all wrapped up with the wit of Asher Roth to deliver an effortless flow. At times breaching into the pop world, other times relying on his underground roots, McLennon keeps all of his influences alive in his music, hoping to connect to his listeners and stay relevant. 
Dom has also seen quite a few accolades in his short span as a hip-hop artist as well, garnering the 2011 New England Music Seminar Showcase title in Production, as well as being a features producer in the iStandardProducers website. He was also a part of the 2011 and 2012 Trinity International hipHop Festival held in Hartford and did an improv set with local Hip-Hop Pioneer Self-Suffice. He's also been featured on various hip-hop blogs around the country and the world for all of his talents, and has only just begun to show his prowess and versatility as an artist. 
His debut mixtape, LIVN, quickly began to pick up steam and currently, since it’s May 6th release, it's already gained over 1000 plays with little promotion and marketing and has shot him to the top of the charts for his city via Bandcamp.com as well as the state of Connecticut for all genres, rather than solely hip-hop.
Though success has always been a motive of his, Dom's main goal as an artist is to make timeless music and set a path for future generations to follow and base their own path upon, because according to him, his music “has to mean something to [the listeners] . . . it doesn’t necessarily have to inspire . . . if you can just enjoy it, an unlimited amount of times, that’s what’s the most important.”
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dom+McLennon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.