Dom is an American pop / electronic solo musical project by Dominic Cournoyer originating from Worcester, Massachusetts. With warped vocals, fuzzy lo-fi distortion, and broken Casio keyboard lines, Dom filters a DIY aesthetic through the upbeat, sunny rhythms of pop music.

There are other artissts with the ame name:

2) A quartet formed by a multinational musical collective (with members from Germany, Poland & Hungary). Their unique album called “edge of time” was released in a relative discretion in 1970. The music reaches the listener into a space, acoustic “trip” dominated by guitars and percussion. Introspective electric organs parts, bass “drones”, simplistic “weird” electronic effects are added to the mix in order to deliver an unforgettable psychedelic “voyage”. The concept of the album is based upon a bad “trip”, its consequences on mind and perception of time (introduced on the cover of the album and by the plaintive recitation of the title track). A group which has similarities with a few experimental krautrock recordings (notably a few curiosities released on the ohr label) but it put a large stress on acoustic, folk musical ideas. An avant-garde, dreamy and poetic album that can easily convince every fan of the genre.

3) A mysterious Sydney, Australia, based art-rock/experimental pop music maker.

4) A dubstep producer, with releases on Clandestine Cultivations & Faisty Records.

5) Aka Dom McQue, a member of Edinburgh based rock band Charybdis. Bassist & songwriter.

6) Aka Wolfgang Voigt

7) One of Domingo Alemán's aliases.

8) DOM (HOME) is an effect of the cooperation of SPASO with a singer NATALIA GROSIAK (Mikromusic, Digit All Love), a double base player JU-GHAN (Matplaneta) and Vj SPECTTRIBE (Meloopa). The album which is being made is based on the idea of using recorded sounds from the houses of people involved in the project, as a background for the music made by SPASO, NATALIA and JU-GHAN. The concept of the album is minimalistic, but the outcome can turn out being something completely unexpected since it’s an experiment and is still waiting for its final shape. The idea is to make DOM also a visual art project. Vj Spectribe is responsible for the scenic outcome of this idea. SPASO - leader and producer of the project, electronics, turntables NATALIA - vocal JU-GHAN - double base SPECTTRIBE - Vj

9) Iván “Belial” Manzano’s one-man Funeral Doom Metal band that originates from Spain. Dom released his debut album in 2010 entitled I. in 2012 the successor Dom II End saw the light of day. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.