Domino may refer to at least 6 artists:

1) Domino is an American rapper born Shawn Antoine Ivy in St. Louis, Missouri and raised in Long Beach, California.

Being a Crip himself, he auditioned for the Bloods & Crips project in the early 1990s. He is the first rapper, in order of appearance, in the title track Bangin' on Wax on the album of the same name.

His debut album Domino spawned two major hits in the United States, including the Top 10 hit Getto Jam, which reached #7 on the Billboard Hot 100. Several further albums were released, and Domino continued to score hits on the R&B charts into the 2000s.

However, while his debut album was critically well received, Domino was thought to have stolen then up-and-coming rapper Snoop Doggy Dogg's style and therefore boycotted. Three years later, Domino released his second album, Physical Funk, which failed to become as successful as its predecessor.

2) Domino is a pop/rock band from New York City, formed in 2006. As of 2007 band members are: Domino Kirke (Vocals), Jordan Galland (Guitar), David Muller (Bass guitar), Sam Koppelman (Drums).

3) DOMINO (or ＤＯＭＩＮＯ is a Japanese Pop/Hip-Hop trio formed in 2000 and debuted as indie artists in February 2009 with their mini-album JK riot!!!. Only five months later, in July 2009, they re-debuted as major artists under Ki/oon Records, a sub-label of Sony Music Entertainment, with their single "DON'T STOP DA MUSIC!!!".

4) Domino is a Quebecois folk-dance quartet; their 1998 album "Domino" featured Sabin Jacques (diatonic accordion), Richard Forest (fiddle), Rejean Brunet (piano and string bass), and Luc Laroche (vocals and foot tapping).

5) Domino is an alias for popular Eurobeat singer Alessandra Maka Gatti.  She's also a songwriter and producer on her own Eurobeat label Go Go's Music (co-fonded with Sandro Oliva).  She sang many Eurobeat hits such has "Tora Tora Tora", "Euroboy", "Gotcha", "I Wanna Dance", "Mickey Mouse March (Eurobeat Version)", "Play With The Numbers", and many more.

6) Domino is a Dutch Hip Hop act consisting of All Star Fresh (King Bee), Rudeboy Remington (Urban Dance Squad), D.J. Know How and The Missing Link.
They made only one single: "Up the par". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Domino">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.