Dominik Hauser is a Swiss composer.

Originally from Switzerland, Hauser received his education at the Jazz School St. Gallen in Switzerland, earning a masters degree in music. His talent extends from composition and arrangement to instrumental performance, including bass work for jazz-funkers The Ruleless. He is the recipient of the coveted Prix Walo and has taken the stage at the Montreux Jazz Festival. In 1996 Hauser relocated to Los Angeles, where he re-entered the education arena. His studies took him to UCLA where he delved deeply into film scoring. Subsequently he took his skills to the realm of indie cinema and began composing for film. Hauser was a privileged participant in the ASCAP film-scoring workshop in 2000 and elevated to semifinalist status at the Young Film Composer Competition in 2002. Hauser has worked on films featuring such superstars as Vin Diesel ( “The Chronicles of Riddick”) and Charlize Theron (“Aeon Flux”). He teaches at the Musicians Institute in Hollywood and has recently published his third book, Beginning Jazz Bass. His work involves him in a variety of projects, including cinema, theater and video games.

Dominik Hauser’s talent brings cinema to life and can provide lush musical backing for any artistic endeavor. His beautifully evocative instrumental compositions support the mood of every scene for the audience.

Hauser says his secret to effective music is simple – you've got to make contact with the listener. “I am trying to write music that connects with and touches people. I like them to have an emotional response to what I write.” That quest for emotional potency brings terrific focus to his creative process. Hauser's music invariably elicits powerful reactions. His inspirations range from revered classical composers to modern musical geniuses, though his work is uniquely his own and derivative of none. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dominik+Hauser">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.