Domine is an epic power metal band started in the mid-1980s in Florence, Italy. Founded by the Paoli brothers, Enrico and Riccardo, the band recorded four demo tapes, and had many reviews and interviews in a lot of fanzines and magazines around the world before they released their first full-length album, Champion Eternal. Upon the release, the band was compared by mags and fanzines to Manowar, Queensryche, Warlord, Omen, Helstar, Candlemass, and Iron Maiden. The band was voted among the best Italian bands and best newcomers in all Italian metal magazines, and got the third place as new band on the Greek Metal Hammer readers' poll (just after Hammerfall and Rhapsody). After the release of the album, Domine played some gigs, the best being the one at the Italian Gods Of Metal Festival in Milan, and the one as support for Rip and Grave Digger during their Italian tour.


With the first album, the band established its personal style with epic metal songs like "Stormbringer (The Black Sword)" and "Army of The Dead", and power metal assaults like "The Mass Of Chaos" and "The Midnight Meat Train", while also creating progressive structures like the epic title track, "The Eternal Champion", a 12-minutes-long suite divided into seven parts. Domine is particular amongst power metal bands in that almost all of their albums are inspired by the Eternal Champion novels by Michael Moorcock, especially the Elric of Melniboné saga, and/or Conan the Barbarian by Robert E. Howard.

Current line-up:

Adolfo "Morby" Morbiducci - vocals
Enrico Paoli - guitars
Riccardo Paoli - bass
Stefano Bonini - drums
Riccardo Iacono - keyboards

Discography:

1. Champion Eternal (1997)
2. Dragonlord (Tales of the Noble Steel) - (1999)
3. Stormbringer Ruler - The Legend of the Power Supreme (2001)
4. Emperor of the Black Runes (2004)
5. Ancient Spirit Rising (2007) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Domine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.