28-year-old NYC-based jazz trumpeter Dominick Farinacci, recipient of the International New Star Award (along with Diana Krall & Christian McBride), the Disney New Star Award, and first place honors in the Carmine Caruso International Trumpet Competition, is touring in support of his 2nd U.S. release, Dawn of Goodbye (Eone Music), following 7 critically acclaimed CD’s as a leader in Japan.

Quincy Jones said “this kid is 360 degrees” after Dominick performed for him in Bel Air, and upon releasing his first U.S. CD (Lovers, Tales & Dances) he was invited to perform at the 02 in London opening for British stars Jamie Cullum and Jeff Beck.  In response to selections recorded with strings on his last release, he appeared at Severance Hall with the Cleveland Orchestra for their 2010 Gala.  When he was just 17, Wynton Marsalis asked Dominick to perform with him on a PBS Special at Lincoln Center, and shortly after, he was selected as one of 18 musicians worldwide to be part of the inaugural class of the Jazz Studies Program at The Juilliard School. 

While gaining recognition from luminaries spanning such a wide and diverse musical genre, Dominick has been newly appointed as the 2011-2012 Artist in Residence at the Creative Center for the Arts in Cleveland, a new state-of-the-art educational facility that houses the Tri-C Jazz Studies Program and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Archives.  Here he will continue to develop and implement his new educational outreach program around the region and further establish partnerships with prestigious organizations such as the National Jazz Museum in Harlem.

Dominick has headlined at many major festivals and clubs both nationally and internationally including Dizzy’s Club Coca Cola, Birdland, Yoshi’s, Scullers, the Monterey Jazz Festival, the Detroit International Jazz Festival, the Tri-C JazzFest and both the Toronto and Montreal Jazz Festivals in Canada.  He has toured Japan regularly since 2003, and has performed in Korea, Switzerland, Italy and the United Kingdom.
He has performed and/or recorded with the likes of Wynton Marsalis, Kenny Barron, Mulgrew Miller, Lewis Nash, Ron Carter, Joe Lovano, Jimmy Heath and Benny Golson.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dominick+Farinacci">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.