The roots of Dominia are in the backyards of imperial St. Petersburg in 1999. The different combos preceding Dominia where formed by singer Anton Rosa and his mate Daniel, guitarist and co-lyricist. Anton Rosa has been the main songwriter from the start.

After a few years of building up a new band they made a significant addition. Violinist and keyboard player Casper became a new member and gave a definitive and clear direction of style to the outfit. The band was named Dominia and the style formed itself to a fusion of different influences. These where especially gothic metal and classical music. The combination of diverse elements did not become a mechanical combination of styles, but a character thatto this day defines the music of Dominia.

Besides working with the band, which now also included Papa, a former street fighter, on drums, did the individual skills of Rosa and Casper develop in other areas. Rosa graduated as an actor from St.Petersburg's Academy of theatrical art. Casper finished his classes at the Rimsky-Korsakov State Conservatoire.

The growing interest in Dominia in the metal clubs of St.Petersburg was accelerated by Casper joining forces with a second violinist, the experienced musician Kat. They both played at that time in the symphony orchestra of the State Capella of St.Petersburg. Kat joined Dominia after a split up with a previous metal band.

Konsta Byleev of the metal management agency Big Brother Entertainment met Dominia at a live venue. He liked their specific style and he liked the band members. They started their cooperation. At this time in the fall of 2004 did Dominias style go through a change from an alternative “doom metal” mode to a more melodic, but rough and heavy music.

The first recordings of Dominia where done in Oulu, in northern Finland in August 2005. The two-track cds was released in November 2005 by UHO Production in Finland. Dominia signed with UHO for future cooperation.
In February of 2006 Dominia started to record their debut album at the Sound Supreme studio in Hämeenlinna. Produced by Janne Saksa the forthcoming album, named “Divine Revolution”, was recorded during February-June. The album release is in mid-September of 2006.It will be preceded by a cds with two tracks from the album: “The Darkness of Bright Life” and “With Pain into Eternity” and an additional bonus track “Cellar Door”.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dominia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.