There are (at least) three artist using the name Domination. A Pantera cover band (now Domination 101), a thrash metal band from Athens, Greece, an american rapper, a death metal band (now Dark Domination).

1) Based out of Los Angeles, Domination 101 is Southern California's tribute to one of the most succesful and influential American metal bands of all time, Pantera. The band - vocalist Shawn Perry, guitarist Mark Lannin, bassist Thomas LeBlanc and drummer Jeff McCune - are taking Pantera's music somewhere it has not been for a while... back on stage where it should be! Domination 101's shows are truly a spectacle, where anything can and does happen. To all of you who miss the Pantera experience - the energy, the raw, aggressive power of what Pantera represents, Domination 101 brings it all back for you live and on the stage. Domination 101 would like to extend an invitation to anyone out there who has never been blessed with the opportunity to see Pantera live to see for yourself why Pantera carry the title "The Kings of Heavy Metal."

2) Domination is a thrash metal band from Athens, Greece. Domination was formed in late 2011 by guitarist Kostas Evangeliou, vocalist Theo Papadopoulos, guitarist Ares Karatzas, drummer Angel Karatzas and former bassist Kostas G. who left a few months later and was replaced by also former bassist Nick Kontos. "Realm of Crisis" was awarded the title "Demo of the month" by Metal Hammer GR with a score of 9/10. (issue #335)
"The Sacred Matrix" received critical acclaim scoring over 8 in all greek metal zines. In August 2015 the long awaited debut album "Infants of Thrash" was released. The album was recieved well from the thrash community world wide positioning Domination among the most promiment young thrash bands in Greece. In 2017, they won the Wacken Open Air Metal Battle and will perform at Wacken.

3) DominatioN [ST] 

We are a death metal band from Split (Croatia). The story of DominatioN starts in summer of 2006 when a group of kids got together to play metal. In the beginning we played only covers of well known thrash and death metal bands such as Venom, Death, Sepultura, Kreator etc. Soon after our first live performances in spring of 2007 we've managed to create our own songs inspired by our influences.

In late 2008 the band had a first line up change (guitar players Ciky and Aljoša joined the band) and this change lasted until march 2009.

In 2008 we recorded our first demo with no title, just 6 tracks to serve as some kind of promo even though its quality is questionable. From 2006 to present time we've had several line up changes (just guitar players) but despite that we have worked our way through lots of shows, demo recordings and we've kept the band working.

Our musical genre is death metal with various admixtures, and we're currently preparing our second demo album. But in the meantime we're free for doing gigs so if you want to book us, just contact us : 


E-Mail : domination.cro@gmail.com

Facebook : http://www.facebook.com/pages/DominatioN-st/86022893773

MySpace : http://www.myspace.com/domination_cro

YouTube Channel : http://www.youtube.com/user/AcridPlacidityCRO

www.myspace.com/domination_cro

4) Domination is an American rapper that is currently signed to Koch Entertainment. He was born and raised in South Jamaica, Queens New York. He was also one of the first members of the rap group, G-Unit. In early 2003, while 50 Cent’s Get Rich or Die Tryin' performed gymnastics on the Billboard charts, G-Unit’s general and highest ranking member, Bang Em Smurf, caught an ill-timed weapons charge over some local drama in his South Jamaica, Queens neighborhood while he was home from touring. He reached out to 50 for help with bail money, but was surprisingly ignored.

“Son left me for dead,” explains the 25-year-old Bang Em, who’s currently incarcerated in upstate New York’s Sing Sing Correctional Facility on that same weapons charge. “He didn’t send me nothing, and didn’t holler back at my peoples.” With help from his family, Bang ‘Em made bail, and upon release, used his keen business sense and street savvy marketing tactics to bolster his own movement- the newly-minted GF Records (Gangsta Flip). He quickly created a deafening buzz by flooding the streets with mixtape freestyles and scorching G-Unit diss records courtesy of an untapped well of talent named Domination — a younger cousin of deceased Lost Boyz hypeman Freaky Tah whom Bang ‘Em had been grooming since a teen — and who by this time had become the GF Records flagship artist.


5) Domination was a death metal band from Latvia, formed in 1997. Year later they changed playing style to black metal and name to Dark Domination.

6) Domination is a Pantera cover band from Romania. Cezar Popescu (guitar, Vita de Vie), Cristi Dumitrescu (drums, Voodoo), Adi (bass, Lotul National de Hardcore), Fane (vocals, Kistvaen, Dwarf Planet). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Domination">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.