Dominique is 
(1) a NYC based electronic pop artist & producer 
(2) a Berlin based music formation, 
(3) a Hindi singer, 
(4) a US-American musician/actor,
(5) a Belgian/Italian singer,  
(6) a Lebanese singer, 
(7) a Martinican/French singer,
(8) as well as a Taiwanese singer, 
(9) a Australian singer, 
(10) a Romanian singer

There are some tracks associated with 'Dominique' that should be filed under 'Dominique A', a French singer and songwriter (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominique_A).

(1) Dominique is an electronic pop artist & producer based in NYC. She has received support on Spotify with over 4 million combined streams and support from the likes of Beats 1/Apple Music, BBC Radio 1, NME, Clash & BuzzFeed.  New York City based artist Dominique began writing and singing from the early age of five years old. Born and raised in St. Petersburg, Florida, she crafted rough productions of her original music on GarageBand while in high school, performing these at coffee shops and local talent shows. At age 18, Dominique moved to New York City to pursue a degree in Biology at NYU, choosing to keep her music as a hobby. However, the thriving NYC music scene eventually inspired her to take writing and producing more seriously and she began learning how to use the production software Ableton Live.

In the fall of 2014, Dominique released her debut single, “It’s Only You” which she co-produced and recorded with fellow NYU student ZeniF. The track was discovered by her current management The Undscvrd just a few weeks later and was subsequently featured on numerous blogs, thus leading to it charting on Hype Machine’s Popular chart. After finishing her degree at NYU, Dominique embarked on her music career full-time and chose to become the sole producer behind her music. Her debut, self-titled EP was released in December 2016, singles from which were featured on Spotify’s New Music Friday playlist, Huw Stephen’s BBC Radio 1 show, Entertainment Weekly, and many other playlists and online blog articles.

2017 initiated new endeavors for Dominique, as she began writing and producing for other artists alongside working on her own artist project. July 2017 saw the release of “Use Me,” which CLASH magazine claimed “an outrageous return, all lyrical suggestion and rolling beats that recall Lorde or Grime's more overtly pop statements.” The track shot to number 3 on Hype Machine’s Popular chart and received praise from NME, The Line of Best Fit, and Kick Kick Snare, alongside numerous others.

Her single “Use Me” was the beginning of a shift in artistic direction for Dominique, and she is now working on a second upcoming EP that showcases similar sounds and ideas. Dominique is also currently meticulously crafting her live show, expecting to make her live debut sometime in 2019.

(2) The Berlin based band Dominique (http://www.dominiquetheband.com) started informally around 1999 with producer, singer and bassist Richard Davis, conceptual artist and guitarist Dave Allen and vocalist and keyboarder Dominic Eichler getting together in a Kreuzberg lounge-room with borrowed instruments and a four-track cassette recorder. The idea was to make a record for the not yet existent indie record label of author Ingo Niermann. Ingo had bought a record at a flea market - the single ‘Money I want More’ and found lots of bank notes inside it. He thought it was a good idea to reinvest that money into music and asked Dominic if he’d like to make a record. Artist Antje Majewski undusted off her cello, Ben Clark taped his drum-kit ‘Cactus’ together and Ninon Liotet stepped up to the mike for the first time. Many others guests also came to the project including a naked Krylon Superstar. Their efforts eventually resulted in the cultish and celebrated debut album ‘Speak to Me’ (2002). The record was first released on a limited edition CD by Berlin indie-labels Touch Me and Tête-à-Tête. A couple of years later Dominique got a small stipendium to make their more or less live, indie, guitar pop orientated album ‘The Same You’ (2004) which was released by SueMi and Tête-à-Tête. Meanwhile cellist Anna Stark and artist and guitarist Michael Lapuks joined the band. In 2005 Dial re-released the debut album on vinyl to great acclaim. Around then guitarist Simon Olivier joined the band. Dominique's third album ‘More Love Now’ was released on Dial/Kompakt/Rough Trade in January 2008.

Dominique is a band that makes ‘minimal pop in the best sense’ (Hartmann/Spex), their words and music emerge from encounters with things like quiet males who finds it hard to express feelings (Speak to Me), admiration of a generous elderly and slightly hung over grande dame (Sun Goddess), being touched as you like to be (Massage), and a magazine absorbed stranger in a train (Cruising Queen).

Speak to me (2002), their nine track debut was released on CD by tête-à-tête and Touchme Music. A remastered re-release on vinyl was published on the Dial label in 2005.
The same you (2005) was released as a CD on tête-à-tête.
More love now (2008) released on CD and LP by Dial.

Dominique are: Ben Clark, Paul Davis (aka Richard Davis), Dominic Eichler, Thomas Goldhahn, Michael Lapuks, Ninon Liotet, Anna Stark, Oliver Schlüter + Guests 

(3) Dominique, or Dominique Cerejo is a Hindi singer.

(4) Dominique, or Dominique Davalos is a US-American musician/actor. She is part of the band called Drag (http://www.myspace.com/draglosangeles)

(5) Dominique, or Dominique Fidanza is a Belgian born Italian based singer (http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominique_Fidanza).

(6) Dominique, or Dominique Hourani is a Lebanese singer. (www.dominiquehourani.com).

(7) Dominique, or Dominique Michalon, or Miss Dominique is a Martinican born, French based singer.

(8) Dominique is a Taiwanese singer (www.alfamusic.com.tw/Dominique).

(9) Dominique is an Australian singer, based in Melbourne. She released (in September 2012) her debut album, a 4 tracks EP called "Dominique" (http://decibelsrecords.bandcamp.com/album/dominique-2)

(10) A Romanian singer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dominique">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.