Donny Benét is a Sydney based solo recording artist. He is notable for his anachronistic musical style, borrowing heavily from outdated 80s post-disco sounds but producing and performing the music in a modern context. In 2011, he released his first full length solo album Don't Hold Back through indie label Rice is Nice.

Donny was born as the son of Antonio Giacomelli Benet, the famous Italian accordionist who made his name recording popular disco songs of the 1970's. Antonio called Australia his new home after falling in love with the daughter of an accordion repairer and after eloping to Leichhardt they were soon parents to Donny. Donny grew up following his father's footsteps but changed his mind at the age of 15 and began to play the electric bass as he soon realised that nobody wanted to hear disco accordion anymore. Donny still plays accordion for the old people at the Scalabrini Retirement village but for the moment is focusing on becoming top bassist and hopefully one day being a television personality. 2009 has heralded the new era of Donny Benét. Due to the apparent lack of interest in disco accordian and Jazz bass playing Donny has taken the plunge and recorded his debut album in the famous DonnyLand Studios. Armed with a Drum Machine, Fender Rhodes and a Moog Synthesizer with a pitch bender that won't stop Donny has worked hard to create an album that will hopefully make him the most famous disco accordian/jazz bassist of the 21st century

He returned to Australia in 2010 and played in Jack Ladder's band The Dreamlanders and began recording his own songs in his father's home studio Donnyland Studios. In 2011 he signed with Rice is Nice records and released Don't Hold Back, which was received with interest from Australian music media, publications praising Benét's sincere take on 80's pop music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Donny+Ben%C3%A9t">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.