Doomocracy is a doom metal band from Heraklion, Greece.

The band was created by Minas Vasilakis on drums, Angelos Tzanis on guitar and Michael Stavrakakis on vocals. The three of them have been good friends and band mates for almost a lifetime.

They started rehearsing together during the summer of 2011 to pay tribute to the doom metal scene and bands like Candlemass, Black Sabbath, Memento Mori and Solitude Aeturnus. After a few months they were joined by good friends and musicians, Manolis Sx on bass and Harry Dokos on guitar.

Having completed the band’s line up and full of energy and inspiration, they rehearsed intensively to compose doom metal music from the heart.

The ideas were floating and the first 4 songs were composed in less than 3 months. The band continued rehearsing while searching for a band name. They decided to call themselves Doomocracy.

By the end of 2012 Doomocracy had completed composing the tracks for their new album "The End is Written" and started pre-production. At the same time they started looking for suitable places to record and mix their album.

The band entered "Mad Hat Music" studio in Heraklion Greece on July 2013 and finished recording on September 2013. Nikos Vogiatzakis was the sound engineer and his help and advice was a great asset to the final result.

After many conversations with European studios and sound engineers, Doomocracy came to the decision to work with Daniel Bergstrand at "Dug Out Productions" in Uppsala Sweden, for the mixing of "The End is Written". Daniel Bergstrand is an established metal producer that has worked with many great metal bands, such as Meshuggah, In Flames, Dimmu Borgir and Evergrey. The band and Daniel had very good communication and worked together in great spirit, to bring the best result possible for the mix. The mixing process was complete on the 15th of October 2013, giving Doomocracy that raw, powerful and heavy sound they were looking for.

Tailor Maid music production and Peter In De Betou was Doomocracy's 1st choice for the Mastering of "The End is Written". Peter is an expert when it comes to Mastering. He has worked with countless metal bands such as Morgana Lefay, Memento Mori, Entombed and so many more. Peter did a fantastic job, giving Doomocracy's debut album, a production worthy of the effort and passion the band has given to produce this album.

Doomocracy is currently looking for a record label while rehearsing to bring their music to the public.

Doom on!

Doomocracy <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doomocracy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.