There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Doom/Death/Punk from California formed in 1991 (On hold)
2) Experimental Death/Doom from Slovakia (Zilina), formed in 1996 (split-up)
3) Death Metal from Slovenia, formed in 2010 (active) - Changed name to VERMINATE
4) Death/Doom band from Germany, Formed in 2011 (active)

1)Doom/Death/Hardcore band from California featuring members of Autopsy, Death, The Ravenous, etc. They released a couple of EP's in the early 90's. 
In 2010, Aphelion Records released a compilation of their EP's called "Doomed to Death and Damned in Hell" The band status is currently on hold.

2) The band was founded in 1996 by guitarist and singer Paul together with a second guitarist Dan Jr. After a long search, the band was finally formed: 
Paul-guitasrs, vocals, Dan Jr.-guitars, Alex-bass, Angie-female vocals, Marek-drums and Kubo-keyboards. This lineup recorded a demo in 1998, "Black Masses The Unholy Altars", which includes 5 songs of an experimental death/doom metal.
Gigs were played across the whole Slovakia and later in Czech Repulic, too.
Breaking the years 1999-2000 a major changes happened in the band. As a cause of very bad attitude, Marek was fired out, next Alex left because of the band stagnation and finally Dan Jr. left due to a music style the band played (he founded his HC/Trash band). However the frontman and band leader Paul didn´t give up. He searched for new band members, which finally became: keyboard player Edith and drum player Mellow.
In this format a new songs were created for an upcoming CD called "Fate Of Suffering". 20.9.2001 the band went into the studio. During this time Marty comes in band , first as a guitarist, then as a bass player. Recordings ends on 12.october. The sending of this CD began to all across the world, in order to advertise the band. Many gigs followed through the Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. In a half of 2002, the band distributed the record Fate Of Suffering by its own and prepared new songs for next record. In the beginning of the year 2003 next lineup changes are done. Next guitarist became Damian and to the bass player post returned old band member Alex. The band plays in this format till the next studio record Downfall, which began to be recorded in March 2004 with this band members: Paul-lead guitars, vocals, Damian-rhythm guitars, Edith-keyboards, vocals, Alex-bass guitars and Mellow-drums. The recording draged out up to a half of year and till the recording is done, the whole lineup is changed. Alex and Edith went for their work and school to Bratislava and drummer Mellow was fired because of his attitude.
14.11.2004 the record was finished and mastered. New members entered the band. Paul's brother Michael behimd the drums and Mike on bass guitar.
18.12.2004 the band performed the new lineup at the concert. Soon after this performance, Damian was fired 'cause of total slacker standpoint and Brian substituted him, and he helped the band playing the gigs. So after the half of the new year gigs can be played again. So the music style that the band wanted to play was formed and it can be marked as a Technical black/death metal with an influence of the progressive style. Till the end of the year the lineup is still of 3 members: Paul-all guitars, vocals, Mike-bass, Michael-drums.
Year 2006 means a lot of plans for the band and already from March the band begins playing the concerts again and plans the re-make of the record Downfall through the year.The day february 4th, 2007 band finishing new album and make your videoclip.... We are looking for new label....
2009 Recording new single "Suffer In Desire"

2010 Broke Up !!!

..It is with heavy hearts but clear minds that we announce that this is the end of DOOMED.
There's no big dramatic story to tell, but after 14 years of putting everything we had into this band, we've simply all moved on and are taking our musical creativity into new and exciting projects:

Michael Watchmaker and Brian Dobish are taking the progressive rock/metal to a whole new level with their new The Tree Of Life project - this is some proper serious stuff.

Paul King is continuing full time with  DEMENTOR - the new album and some killer European tours are coming up this fall, so make sure you keep yourselves updated: http://www.myspace.com/dementorsk also he prepare yourself solo project Paul King, you can check out the filth here: http://www.myspace.com/paulkingmetal and the end he accede to The Tree Of Life too.

Brian Wonder has been busy working on his own project, the Increasing Passion, you can check it out here: http://www.bandzone.cz/increasingpassion 

3) 
Doomed was born after Mraz left MORA in March of 2010 and decided to follow his true passion, Death Metal. After not being able to find any members he decided to work on a new band alone and started writing songs for Doomed. 

In early June 2010, Uroš Eršte on guitar and Galena Jordanova on bass joined. Recording for their first EP: "From The Crypt" started in late June 2010 and was released on the 13th of September 2010. Matej Štefanič joined as a session drummer later on.Matej left in the beginning of October due to his student duties and Gorazd Ledinek joined Doomed as a permanent member. A series of very successful gigs followed. After the Metal Camp 2011 festival gig, Doomed decided to part with their drummer Gorazd due to the differences in interest. And so Žiga Zupanc stepped into his place. In Spring of 2012 the basist Galena had to leave the band due to school obligations and lack of time, Miha Ozvaldič filled her place. The Band is currently preparing for the upcoming gigs and writing new material for their upcoming LP.

http://doomedcrypt.blogspot.com/
http://www.facebook.com/DoomedDM

4)
A solo project by multi-instrumentalist Pierre Laube, from east Germany, who is also a member of P.H.A.I.L.
He started working on his debut "An Ancient Path" in 2011, and released it in 2012.
Laube is currently working on his second album "In My Own Abyss" which is going to be released soon.

http://www.facebook.com/doomedband
http://www.doomed-band.de/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doomed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.