Doomshade is a metal band from Kansas City currently smashing their way through clubs in the Midwest to promote their forthcoming CD entitled "Doomshade". The band formed in January of 2006 and began writing music that would showcase the Pantera / CoC style vocals of lead singer Jay Stadler. Their first live performance was to a packed house at the Grand Emporium in late May 2006. Their gig schedule was been busy throughout 2006 and remains so in 2007, and the audience response is typically loud and energetic

Doomshade live performances are tight and the music is often compared to Pantera, Rob Zombie, and Godsmack. Most of the songs are between three and five minutes in length and are very crowd friendly. The riffs are catchy and easy to grasp, and the tone is heavy, heavy, heavy. The core members Oliver, Haupt, and Christopher have written and performed together for 12 years. Dead stops, grinding rhythms, powerful drum riffs, and clear gravel vocals highlight the musical interplay they bring to the stage. The polished guitar solos of Haupt and Christopher continue to wow audiences in a club scene over crowded with strictly rhythm guitar bands, and front-man Stadler's stage presence is infectious.

The inspiration for Doomshade came about during a hiatus from performing with the band Graven Image which Oliver, Haupt, and Christopher formed in 1995. Jay Stadler, a long time friend, saw an opportunity to enlist the group to work on a side project to record music for his vocals. Once composition and recording had begun the project took on a life of its own, and they decided to officially form a new band. Preparation for live performances went fast due to the twin guitar team of Haupt and Christopher, paired with drummer Oliver, who had worked together on all three of the indie records released by Graven Image between 1995 and 2003. The addition of Sean Jamison on the bass completed their live lineup and they have been constantly booked throughout the Midwest to promote the forthcoming new record.

The band is currently working with several production companies in the Midwest to expand their audience base by performing in an ever-widening geographical area. Doomshade has signed a distribution deal for the new record with Open Grave Records for a June 2007 release date. They will continue to promote the new release throughout 2007 with live performances including the Whisky a GoGo in Los Angeles tentatively set for June, and negotiations are under way for a national tour in the fall. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doomshade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.