Doom Lit Sky begun as a two-piece, formed in 2001, by members Justin Ray (Guitar, Vocals), and Cameron Olson (Drums). Only one show was played with this line-up. Doom Lit Sky later acquired bass player Kyle Ewegen who had been playing in another local band (that shall remain nameless) to add earth shattering low end tones and back-up vocals to help complete the sound. Many shows were played with these members. Second guitar player, Jason Griffith was then added. Their sound then transformed from gritty black grinding death, to a more polished and brutal onslaught of violent and cruel metal. 

DLS recorded a demo entitled- "At war with hardcore" which was recorded with long time friends; Bobby Hattenberg, and Bill Nieman. This recording was never massively released. While playing mostly local shows, and some tour dates, DLS then recorded "In Ruin" which was their first full length DIY album; released shortly after. This album contained 9 hymns, all of which were inspired by the relentless abomination of man upon earth and our shared disgust for Christianity. In Ruin was also recorded by Bill Nieman. 

Nearly a year after this recording, Jason Griffith disbanded from Doom Lit Sky to fight some personal demons. His replacement; Jeff Huttenmaier was stolen from another local band called Everything Beautiful. This has been the only line-up change in the history of DLS. Doom Lit Sky has played many shows with this like-up; both local and touring in the Northwest. 

Recently, DLS recorded another full-length album entitled "Archaic Immolation" which was released in March of 2009 with Bill Nieman. This album contains 7 tracks of blackened grindcore. Archaic Immolation is a good display of musical evolution that Doom Lit Sky has to offer. DLS has played many shows and toured after the debut of this album. 

February of 2010, Doom Lit Sky once again returned to the studio of Bill Nieman to record 2 final songs. These songs; Ogar Seed, and Disgust will later be pressed as a split with another local Spokane band. The details are yet to be determined. Since the disbanding of DLS January 22, 2010, another project has formed form it's members. Known as Snake Tornado; they have performed 2 shows and 1 house party. The short lived band was merely an attempt occupy time and continue playing metal until the band bids farewell to drummer Cameron Olson. Sake Tornado recorded 6 songs which can be heard on their myspace- myspace.com/snaketornado. 

Doom Lit Sky's influences range from modern death, and black metal to old school hardcore punk rock. They wrote songs that contain important elements they thought were important- composition, variety, speed, mild technicality, and also keeping metal BRUTAL! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doom+Lit+Sky">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.