There are four artists with the name Dopamine.

1) Dopamine is a black metal/shoegaze/depressive rock project from China founded by Deng & Jiang in 2008, the vocalist, Zhao (from Be Persecuted) joined later in 2009. They released a self-titled EP in March 2010, as well as contributing the song "Melting" to a split with Heretoir and Dernier Martyr before splitting up on April 6th, 2010. A compilation entitled "Dying Away in the Deep Fall" was released by one of Deng's record labels in 2011, Pest Productions which featured both songs from their self-titled EP and three previously unreleased tracks. 

Dopamine came out with their full length Dying Away in the Deep Fall 2 in 2019

Deng is also the owner of Midnight Productions and Weary Bird Records.

2) Dopamine are an alt rock outfit from Caerphilly, South Wales. Mixing infectious melodies with crunching guitars, they have rightfully gained a large following. They have toured with the likes of Underoath, Funeral for a Friend, Silverstein, Lostprophets and The Hurt Process.

They have released 3 e.p’s (one for Japan) and two albums. On the 25th of September 2006, the second album entitled “Experiments With Truth” was released on the emotion sickness label to mixed reviews including in Kerrang! and RockSound.


3) Dopamine is one of Australia's most internationally respected producers. With huge amounts of support from John Acquaviva, Chris Liebing, Oliver Giacomotto, Meat Katie, Elite Force, The Plump DJ's, Bass Kleph and many more. Dopamine is writing and remixing some of the hottest tunes and playing in some of the hottest clubs around the globe with regular visits to Fabric and The End in London, Chinese Laundry in Sydney, China, Russia, Hungary, New Zealand and Spain - the list goes on and on. Matt 'Dopamine' Goddard is a man in demand.... and in more than just one genre too....

4) Dopamine are a five-piece indie rock band. With a sound ranging from post-punk to britpop, the band have been performing their distinct sound around their local stomping ground of Brisbane, Australia. Having an affinity for 60's pop and 90's alternative, the group melds chiming guitar lines with swirling harmonies and a groove-heavy rhythm section. They're debut EP 'Outlaw' is OUT NOW on all platforms.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dopamine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.