There are several artists/bands with the name Dorian:

1) Dorian is a Spanish electro-pop band. They were born in 2002 in Barcelona, Spain with the common necessity to develop a sound that conjugated the tradition of the Spanish pop with contemporary electronic music.
The members are: Mark (voice, guitar, programmings) Belly (piano, keyboard, programmings) Bart (bass) Jordi (drums).

Up to 2007 they published 2 albums: "10.000 Metrópolis"(2004) and "El futuro no es de nadie"(2006).

www.webdorian.net

2) Dorian is a rock/pop band from Stavanger, Norway.
The band dorian was formed in Jørpeland/Stavanger, Norway in 1998. Today the band consists of Reimund "Jack Black" Voll (drums), Rune "Skin" Vestø¸ (guitar/vocals), Svein Kaare Aakre (keyboards) and Alf J. "Affi" Middelthon (bass). Most of the songs are by Rune Vestbø¸, while the band has worked together to create what is widely recognised as "the dorian sound". 
The band's music has been played different places in the world, but still they have only played their concerts in Norway. 

In 2002 the band released their first four-track CD-EP, "Falling Down" which included 'My Wine', a track which has become a solid favourite with fans. In 2005 the band produced a second EP - "Guide" - which further strengthened their position in the music scene, and in 2006 the band's song "Whatever I Please" was included on a local compilation CD, featuring as album's opening track. In the beginning of April 2008 they finally released their fullenght album "Whatever I please".

www.dorian.no

3) The Turkish band Dorian was found in 2000 in Istanbul/Turkey and found its final cast in 2002. After working with several professional musicians, step by step they found their own identity.

Different festivals and concerts gave them the possibility to present their own songs and covers to a faster growing fan-crowd.

When they started to work on their first album Yeniden Hayata they continued to give concerts in bars until they finally concentrated totally on their album production. A strong influence of drum&bass, acid jazz, anatolian and islamic mysticism can be recognized instead.

Dorian took part in the " 9. Efes Dark Roxy Muzik Gunleri (famous musical contest in Turkey) and won the special jury award with 20 000 votes in the internet with their song Ruyadan. Between 2002 and 2005 they just worked on their album which led into an agreement with EMI Music in march 2005.

In april 2005, they started to record their album at ATM studios and decided to publish Bakma Yuzume as their first single of their album, which was released in september 2005.

4) Dorian is also czech gothic rock band originating from Jihlava. Was born in 1992 with name "Missale". Since 1995 is known as "Dorian Gray". The original band split up in 1998. The singer and main person in band - Martin Soukup joined XIII. století. In 2001 is band back with new material and shortened name "Dorian". In 2003 is issued their only official CD (next to demos) named "Haleluja". The band seems to be inactive since 2005.

5) Dorian is also an Indie/Alternative Rock band from]Melbourne, Australia, formed in 2006. They consist of: Christian Gelder, the lead guitarist and vocalist, Alex McLeod, rhythm guitarist and backing vocalist, Jake Ramnac bassist and keyboardist,Jacob Evans, drummer.

They have released (as of December 2007) two EPs: "The White Lights", and "1991". They can be found on their MySpace page: http://www.myspace.com/dorianaustralia.

6) A glam rock Dorian from the mid-70s New York scene.

7) German Power/Heavy metal band from Braunschweig, Lower Saxony. Formed in 1992 ,they released one demo release "Running Scared" in 1994 before disbanding.

Lineup:
Wolfgang Sammer - Vocals
Peter Brenner - Guitar
Volker Mönch - Bass
Boris Koch - Drums
Michael Röhl - Keyboards

8) Dorian (Horst Schaefer) is also a German/Austrian Blues-, Rock- and Folk Musician. Born in 1952, he started his musical career in the late 60ies in northern Germany, being a part of Bands like Merlin Retard & H2S+E. After moving to Austria, he mostly played solo. Free Downloads and links to CDs at his Website, http://www.wortwerkstatt.at/dorian/

9) Dorian is a project name of Polish musician Dorian Przystalski working in the field of Berlin School of electronic music. Albums to date: Antimatter (2003), Industrial Love (2007), Contaminated Area (2009) - available for free from http://www.dorian.art.pl.

10) Dorian are a three peice rock band from Glasgow, Scotland, and have supported bands like The Futureheads

11) Czech rapper and singer. Member of Blakkwood label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dorian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.