Dornfall is a French progressive rock/metal band from Paris.

Dornfall was born from the meeting between Christopher Mouron and Florian Sliwa (guitar) at the eve of 2002. Originally called Scarecrow, the band after working on different songs is joined by Armando Da Silva (guitar), Michel Lamrani (vocals) and Florian Gargaro (drums) at that time student in the MAI. Its the beginning of a long period of hard work. January 2003 is a crossroad. After a first show, Michel left the band due to professional priorities and is immediately replaced by Seb (ex Scavengours, Voodoo Smile). His voice, totally in opposition with Michels one brought power and melody to the band which was renamed to act it. Dornfall was born. Then came a lot of concerts with some shows at La Loco and at the Elysee Montmartre. Motivated as ever to pass a step, the band decided to separate ways with Armando in September 2003. The coming months vocation focus on composition, maturation, the research of their own touch and stability in the band. Frederic Charpentier, himself issued from the MAI joined Dornfall in January 2004. Seb is replaced by Stephane Molino in april 2004 and by himself brought the biggest revolution the band ever known. The vocals are totally refunded, the lyrics will now be written in French and all these things together brought an emotional dimension, accessibility and undeniable melody. Unity is at least found and naturally the bands music evolves to a more precise and personnal style after the release of their first record. Dornfall is tainted of progressive rock music from Rush, Tool, Porcupine Tree, Opeth to King Crimson and more... Late april 2007 Fred Charpentier left the band and was replaced by the astonishing guitarist Sam Smith. The band's new album "Precieux Secret" will be released on the 07th may 2007.
 

Official Website: http://www.dornfall.com/.
Check their myspace profile here: http://www.myspace.com/dornfall. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dornfall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.