Adam Drucker (doseone) was born in Nampa, Idaho. A product of two well intentioned hippie parents whose extremely imagined relationship was unfortunately a half fusion of everything they had feared in their own mothers and fathers respectively. Needless to say the couple did not last, but the son of a one-time glass-blower managed with his ten-mile-a-minute wit, one of a kind voice, humor and imagination. His coming-of-age years were spent bouncing around Philadelphia and New Jersey perfecting his MC-battling skills. By the time he moved to Cincinnati in his late teens, he'd developed a unique style and approach that has been unmatched in that circuit since. Even though his talent landed him in a few final-round showdowns with freestyle legends like Eminem, JUICE, and members of Freestyle Fellowship in Cincinnati's annual "Scribble Jam," dose found battling ultimately unsatisfying. Sitting in his college classes, he no longer found himself daydreaming about battle comebacks, instead he started focusing more on poetry and began applying it to musical form.

dose became familiar with jel through jel's radio partner, Kevin Beacham. But it wasn't until 1998 when some tapes were exchanged through mutual friend, Mr. Dibbs, that the two realized their potential together. Soon after a few phone conversations, jel started making frequent sojourns from Chicago to Cincinnati to record with dose. The duo's first couple of tracks ended up on dose's first self-released record Hemispheres (1998). Then from April of 1998 to January 1999 they solidified their chemistry, putting the tracks together that would end up on Themselves's Them. That same Spring dose and jel, along with Slug of Atmosphere and sole and alias of Live Poets began recording Deep Puddle Dynamics's The Taste of Rain... Why Kneel? Out of that record, the concept of anticon was somewhere born - whose founding dose and jel would become an integral part of, later bringing them both to the Bay Area.

dose has been involved with numerous other projects such as collaborations with Boom Bip, John Herndon, prefuse 73, Buck 65, Aesop Rock, sole, and HOOD. He's also the front man in the band Subtle and is an essential ingredient in cLOUDDEAD with why? and odd nosdam. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doseone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.