The Doughboyz Cashout are a rap group from Detroit, Michigan.  Their core members consist of Payroll Giovanni, HBK, Doughboy Roc, Doughboy Scooch, Doughboy Wee, Big Quis, Doughboy Dre, Doughboy Clay & Chaz Bling.

In 2009 the Doughboyz Cashout debuted with their first mixtape "We Run The City Vol. 1" which was a double disc.  The only major local artist to appear on the album was Lodge Boy Woe of the Lodge Boyz.  The album was accepted with a positive response especially with the street singles "Shake Dat Ass 4 A Rich Nigga" & "State Yo Name".

By time the second mixtape was released in early 2010 the Doughboyz Cashout started to make their name known in the city of Detroit.  "We Run The City Vol. 2 Flood Zone" instantly became a hood classic with the many street singles that spawned off the album.  "Chain On My Dresser" & "Hutch Did Da Chain" were some of the biggest ones.  The album also featured only on major local artist which was Mack Nickels who is the other half of the Lodge Boyz with Lodge Boy Woe.

In the second half of 2010 the group released "We Run the City, Vol. 3 Chances Make Champions" which solidified the group as one of Detroit rap's major players.  The lead single off the album titled "I Dog Hoes" was the streets talking which made quick easy sales when the album was released.  This album also had more features from major local artists such as Helluva of Made West Entertainment & Mack Nickels for the single "Ten In My Trues" & Tax Holloway of the Eastside Chedda Boyz for the single "Make Time 4 Me".

In fall of 2011 the album "No Deal On Chill" was released and featured Street Lord'z members Cashout, Street Lord Brickk & Street Lord O-Dolla along with Helluva & Teairra Mari

In the 2012-2013 years the group released the mixtape "Free Roc" while Doughboy Roc was in jail.  The mixtape featured major artist Young Dro as well as Detroit legends Helluva & Cashout.  It also let the members Crispy Quis & Doughboy Dre shine and have more influences throughout the songs.  Before the Summer Jamz concert happened in Detroit, Michigan.  The group announced that they signed with Young Jeezy's CTE Label. In fall of 2013 they released two mixtapes under the name "Boss Yo Life Up Gang" which featured Young Jeezy as well as other label mates YG & Jefe.  The year also produced two solo albums within the group such as Doughboy Scooch - A Bronx Tale & Doughboy Roc - Ghetto Testimony.

The year of 2014 brought the release of "We Run The City Vol. 4".  In the summer of 2014 Doughboyz Cashout released their first mixtape under the BYLUG banner titled "Gold Rush" which featured Charlie Baltimore, Kook The Kashcow, StuntHard HotBoyz & many others.  Also group member HBK aka Kiddo is planning to release his debut solo album "Breaking All The Rules" & Crispy/Big Quis released the single "Star Wars". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doughboyz+Cashout">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.