Emerging as one of today's elite Hip Hop performers, Doujah Raze offers a distinct and refreshing blend of rhymes and beats - raw and powerful lyrics delivered with ease over soulful melodies, thick bass lines, and pounding drums. Though he hails from Alexandria, VA and represents Washington, DC to the fullest, he credits much of his recent success to his relocation to New York City in 2002.  "I'll always rep DC and Virginia, but moving to New York has opened so many doors for me that I would have never discovered had I lived anywhere else in the world.  It was essential to my development." Since Doujah's move he has continued to put out music, performe worldwide, and work with Hip Hop veterans. Most notably he has cultivated a relationship with Japanese video game developer Platinum Games, who he helped with their soundtracks for the video games Madworld and Anarchy Reigns, where his most popular tracks are found.

Trilogy Records, Inc., Doujah's own independent label, began releasing his singles in 2001.  Each single experienced incredible success, gaining national and international airplay, achieving peak chart positions, and creating a strong buzz across the globe.  From his debut 12", "Hard Times," to his latest offering, the album Past Presence Features, Doujah's records have impacted the scene, receiving praise from DJs, critics, and urban music magazines such as Elemental, XLR8R, URB, and Okayplayer.com.  While dominating the college music scene, Doujah has also tallied up several hundred BDS spins, gracing commercial radio airways in key markets across America.

Through the success of his music, Doujah has had the opportunity to work with established artists such as Da Beatminerz, O.C. and A.G. (DITC), Sean Price (Bootcamp Clik) and DMC Champion Mista Sinista on his recent projects.  He is currently working with other popular artists and producers in the hip hop world, many of which will be featured on his sophomore album in 2007.

In addition to releasing music, Doujah has spent the last four years rocking venues in the U.S., Canada, and throughout Europe.  He has performed at several high profile conferences and festivals including CMJ (NYC), SXSW (Austin), NXNE (Toronto), A3C (Atlanta), Splash (Germany), L'Original (France) and Hip Hop Kemp (Czech Republic).  Doujah has perfected his live show and proves himself with inherent stage presence, wowing crowds and tearing down stages night after night.  Through the course of his travels, Doujah has shared the stage with Hip Hop acts such as Busta Rhymes, Mobb Deep, Raekwon, CL Smooth, Dilated Peoples, Brand Nubian, The Bootcamp Clik, Non Phixion, Little Brother, Masta Ace, Mr. Lif, and many other established acts. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Doujah+Raze">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.