Down From The Wound Is A Brutal Death Metal Band From Philippines

DOWN FROM THE WOUND Started late 2001 and it all began in a small town called San Marcelino in the province of Zambales located at the Northern part of the Luzon Island Philippines. Originally formed by Jeff and Randyl, the band had undergone a lot of member changes until the line up was completed in October 2004 and fortunately gained stability. Tristan Dela Cruz (vocals) Jeff Compañero (guitars) and Randyl Manglicmot (drums) aims to spread a massive brutality through their music. The band quickly began writing new materials heavily influenced by Disgorge USA and Devourment USA. Shortly after, the first self titled demo was recorded and released early 2005 and it got a lot of good feedback. After a little over a year of practicing, an old friend of the band Rust Honra joined the group filling for bass but unfortunately, he was then kicked out off the band due to some schedule conflicts. The band again decided to enter the studio to record their follow up demo “Piercing Through the veil of lies” and was released October of 2005. The follow-up demo got a much better feedback than the previous one. It reached the attention of local and international fanzines, webzines andlabels as well. The tracks from the follow-up demo was re-mastered and came out in the 2-way split with Pus Vomit titled Split Disembowelment (mid 2006) under Berdugo Records and Condemned Records. October 2006, the band recorded ten tracks and planned to release it as a Full CD. Early 2007 they started to send promo CD’s to labels. Finally, February of 2007 the band officially received a great record deal from one of the most brutal labels in the Underground Death Metal scene, SEVARED RECORDS. The debut CD “AGONY THROUGH RITUALS OF SELF PURIFICATION” was released November the same year. After a couple of months playing shows, Jayquinn joined the group filling on the bass section adding thickness in the sound most especially on live performances. The band is now heavily equipped with massive brutality and continued playing all local shows available down town Olongapo City as well as Manila and other near provinces around. July 2008 the band was invited to play in Hymns Of Disembowelment II, a metal show held in Bangkok, Thailand wherein Disgorge (USA) was set to play on the Debut show of this death fest in 2006. This was the first show of the band overseas. After Hymns of Disembowelment II, Tristan temporarily parted ways with the band to put more priorities with his job. The band conducted an open audition for a session vocalist. Jeryk Sebastian was chosen to fill in the slot. He was given the chance to perform with the band for four consecutive shows. October 2008, Tristan came back to the band. The band is now ready to enter the studio again as soon as all the materials for the Promo 09 are completed.

Official Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Down+From+the+Wound">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.