There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) Download is a Canadian electronic music group formed in 1995. 
2) Download is a Brazilian drum & bass artist from Sao Paulo. 
3) DOWNLOAD is an alias of Emma Essex.

1) Download is a Canadian electronic music group formed by Dwayne Goettel and cEvin Key of Skinny Puppy in 1994. The initial lineup also included Off & Gone's Phil Western and Mark Spybey of Dead Voices on Air, but has since been particularly fluid, with Key and Western being the only constant members following Goettel's death. Download's music has been described as post-industrial, drawing from the band's genesis as part of Skinny Puppy but also sharing common stylistic ground with such artists as Aphex Twin and Autechre. The primary instrumentation common throughout their albums is a blend of synthesizers and sampled instruments; the music is particularly centered on elements of percussion and rhythm.
As industrial and industrial metal band, Download was originally begun by Skinny Puppy's cEvin Key and Rudolph Dwayne Goettel in 1995 as a side project from their rapidly disintegrating full-time interest. Also a part of Download were Skinny Puppy contributors Anthony Valcic and Ken Marshall, plus Philth and Mark Spybey (from Dead Voices on Air). The debut album Furnace was issued on their own SubConscious Records (and distributed by Cleopatra) in late 1995; several months earlier, however, Goettel had died from a heroin overdose.
Skinny Puppy disbanded in 1996 after the release of  (The Process), and Download continued with two EPs early in the year. The first, (Microscopic) included remixed tracks from Furnace, while the second (Sidewinder) was the group's first release for Nettwerk Records (though not for Key, who had released many on Nettwerk through Skinny Puppy). Second album The Eyes of Stanley Pain followed in mid-1996, and began to show the effect of the electronic dance music which Skinny Puppy had influenced a full decade before. The film soundtrack Charlie's Family appeared on Metropolis Records in 1997, followed by Download's third proper album (III) in October 1997. Effector was released three years later.

2) Download is a Brazilian drum & bass artist from Sao Paulo. 

3) DOWNLOAD (formerly stylized as ⇩LOAD) is an alias of Emma Essex under the Halley Labs label. They are a hellbat that produces compilations of noise music.
They were originally separate from Halley Labs and their releases were on a separate Bandcamp page, which is no longer available.
DOWNLOAD's name was taken from the duology of PC Engine and CD games and a shmup of the name. Their design from 2013 was made as a way to personify and sexualize Emma's own fears to lessen their effect on her. As such, the decision to make them a bat was based on stereotypical personality traits. As time passed, DOWNLOAD's design was toned down significantly and more effeminate, making them Emma's "casual" fursona.
On December 10, 2019, Emma announced on Twitter that the character of DOWNLOAD would have a 'real name' (deuteronomy) attached to them to reflect less harsh noise tracks, but the character was later entirely rebranded to this new name. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Download">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.