Three acts are known as Dozer

1) A stoner rock/metal band from Borlänge, Sweden.
2) A hardstyle DJ.
3) An alternative group from Seattle.



1) The band was founded in 1995. In the late 90's they began sending out their demo, although not really expecting anything big to happen.  When Frank Kozik of Man's Ruin Records heard their demo, he immediately signed them. Man's Ruin released their first album, In the Tail of the Comet. Soon after, they came out with their second release, Madre de Dios.  This was not as successful as 'In the Tail of the Comet' due to Man's Ruin collapse shortly after its release. In 2003, Dozer made a comeback with Call it Conspiracy. Their latest album, Through the Eyes of Heathens has achieved much success with its more hard rock and metal influences.
The current line-up:
Fredrik Nordin (vocals, rhythm guitar)
Tommi Holappa (lead guitar)
Johan Rockner (bass guitar)
Olle 'Bull' Mårthans (drums)

Fredrik and Tommi are also part of the swedish stoner band Greenleaf.

More info on http://www.dozermusic.com/

2) Dozer (DJ Tony) started his career at a very remarkable way in 1990. Back in those days he had a friend which was resident at a local club in Eindhoven. Tony always went to that club with his friend. At that time Tony had the thought of starting a dj career of his own but it didn’t come to this point yet. One day his friend couldn’t make it to the club and asked Tony to replace him that night. This was the immediate start of his career. The owner of the club was stunned by his performance and offered him a residency at his club.

From the beginning Tony played house music which was just upcoming at that time. By the end of the nineties the hardhouse became more popular and Tony picked it up and directly stated playing this kind of house music. Eventually the hardhouse would split up in hardstyle and jump. The last style is the main music style Tony is playing in his sets nowadays. Of course Tony also plays hardstyle with a wink to early rave.

In 2004 his long awaited first track was released and from that moment on he also made name as a producer. All his tracks are released on the Superplastic label, which is a sub label of the famous Fusion label. His tracks found their way to all famous jumpstyle artists and are now heard at every big party and club. His first record was Whipe Out/ Kick and would be followed by more massive tracks like Afraid of the Dark, Squels and Krekwakwou. Tony spends a lot of time in his studio and you can be sure that more jumpstyle hits will follow!

The success of his tracks was picked up by the big promoters and soon he played on all big events like Defqon, Q-Base and Hard Bass. Today he is a resident at the Rodenburg and besides that he played at the biggest clubs in Europe, like the Time Out (NL), the Matrixx (NL), Outland (NL), Cherrymoon (BE), Zak (DE), Oxa (CH) and the Mad (CH). Everywhere Tony performs, the crowd is going wild!

Meanwhile Tony is a well known artist with recognisable tracks and his own style of performance. For sure you are going to hear a lot of DJ Tony in the near future!

More info on http://www.myspace.com/dozernl, http://www.myspace.com/djtonynl

3) www.cozydozer.bandcamp.com / seattle, wa! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dozer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.