Dr. Know is an American hardcore punk band from Oxnard, CA. One of the founders of the "Nardcore" punk movement from Oxnard, CA, The band was started by Kyle Toucher, Ismael Hernandez, and Robin Cartwright in early 1981, and after auditioning a few singers, Brandon Cruz was chosen (although technically the first singer was a Ventura punk named Joey Pena). The band recorded studio versions of several early songs with Cruz, which led to television appearances and gigs on the Los Angeles circuit. In 1983 Cruz left the group, leaving Toucher to take over vocals just as the band was starting recording of Plug in Jesus for Mystic Records. Several more albums followed, including the Burn EP, This Island Earth and Wreckage in Flesh were subsequently released on Death Records/Metal Blade, signaling a shift to a more Metal period in their sound. For This Island Earth the lineup was founding member Kyle Toucher on vocals and guitars, drummer Rik Heller and bassist Ismael Hernandez. Dr. Know broke up shortly after Wreckage in Flesh was released in 1989, although they did a few scattered shows up until 1991. Heller moved to Scotland and briefly joined The Exploited.
Dr. Know reunited in 1998 with Hernandez and Cruz, Toucher wanted no part of "angry 19 year old kid stuff." The band has released several new songs on comps, and albums, like 2000's Father , Son, and Holy Shit, and the new record, 2009's Killing for God, on Unrest Records.
Dr. Know with Ismael Hernandez and Brandon Cruz broke up in May 2010. Brandon has a new band called MDCN+MN (Medicine Man) 

Founding member Kyle Toucher reunited the Wreckage In Flesh-era lineup in 2010. The lineup consists of Toucher on guitar and vocals, Tim Harkins on guitar, Mike Purdy on bass, and Mike Vega on drums. They have been playing shows across California and the western United States, and a nationwide tour is said to be in the works.

2.) Dr. Know is also the alias of Gary Miller, guitarist of the Rastafarian group Bad Brains.

3.) While to date only three releases have been made under this name, Dr. Know is also an alias of drum & bass producer Tom Withers, who is better known as Klute.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dr.+Know">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.