Dr. Chunk is an unpredictable, awe-inspiring music machine, spewing forth intense rock arrangements designed to rattle your soul and stick to your brain. The band blends a smashing rhythm section, heavy guitar riffs and melodic, inquisitive vocals to create songs that reflect upon the social situations which drive us up to (and beyond) our breaking point. Everything is sacred and nothing is forbidden; Dr. Chunk explores the deepest roots of all emotion, pumping energy everywhere they go.

Vocalist Brian Mackey, previously with Living Relic, demands attention with his captivating, theatrical delivery. Wildman guitarist Jeff Simpson, formerly from San Diego’s speed metal band Massacre Zer0, lays down a bed of crushing, chunky riffs. Drummer Ben Victa, hailing from the AC/DC-like No Bargain, hits hard and steady. Part man, part animal, and 100% crazy, Dr. Chunk has Scott "Gorilla" Milnes on bass. With punishing bass lines and stage antics that don't stop, you'll never look at gorillas in the wild the same way again!

When Dr. Chunk is asked to define the message they are trying to convey through their music, they will respond with a two-fold answer. First, they want their audience to know how they feel, whether the subject is humor, politics or their own moments of self-doubt. As a rock band they feel it is their responsibility to express their emotional responses to the world as they see it; many of their songs are deeply personal and, in a way, therapeutic. Second, Dr. Chunk hopes to inspire people to dig into themselves and express how they feel. The form of expression is unimportant; they just hope that their music can help people to cultivate their creative nature and make their own unique artistic contribution to the world.

Nominated for best rock/metal album of 2002 by the San Diego Music Awards Academy, Dr. Chunk is currently working on writing material for their second CD. They are also bringing their music to new listeners by playing live, expressing their uncompromising form of hard rock with surgical precision all over the United States west coast.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dr.+Chunk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.