There are several artists named Draco.
1. A Finnish black metal band. They released one split album with Usva in 2010 ("Re-Desecrating the South Carelian Graves").

2. The machine will never cease to function... Drone DraCo was born and raised in Croatia, escaping the Collective, and currently residing at the nation's capitol city Zagreb from where he runs a netlabel Diggarama together with his friend bLURiX (all heil Diggarama!).

He was influenced by the many old legends of the electronic music since he's following the party scene for the most of his life. Usually well known for his wild taste in music, but often drifts away to some weird roads of electronica showing himself and the others that new styles and forms can be chained with the oldschool way of dealing with music. From hard stomping gabber and hardcore techno sounds, over 303 madness at the dancefloors with some nice turns to drum'n'bass parties then back over to goa trance euphorias and with the constant of harder techno sounds with detours to Warp records influenced IDM music DraCo's attending parties and plans to do it for a long long time in the future... Gathering positive vibe, experience and influences.

Never surrender, never dance alone... Until now, he released some stuff on independent Slovenian hardcore techno projects, on Diggarama label, his music was used in one very nice art movie called "I Communicate" directed by the Donna Tamosaitis and some more surprises are coming real soon. More of a producer and less a DJ, he played at Underwater Overground 4 festival in Croatia, some hardcore techno parties in Croatia and Slovenia, Diggarama label party and planned gig is festival in Germany with the unknown star date so far.

Dance floor is like a playground... Live long and prosper because victory is life.

3. Dräco Rosa (born June 27, 1970), originally known as Robby Rosa, and also known as Dräco Cornelius Rosa, among other names, (born Robert Edward Rosa Suarez) is a multi-talented artist of Puerto Rican descent. Among his talents, Rosa has been known as a composer, writer, singer, musician, poet, painter, and actor. Rosa originally garnered fame as a member of boy band Menudo in the 1980s. More recently, he is best known for his solo career and for writing hit songs for fellow artists, among them Ricky Martin, Julio Iglesias and Ednita Nazario.

Biography

Menudo Years
Born Robert Edward Rosa Suarez on June 27, 1970, Westbury, Long Island, New York to Puerto Rican parents. As "Robby Rosa" he was a member of Puerto Rican singing Menudo from Valentine's Day, 1984 to 1987. Robby was the second band member ever to join the singing group who was not a native of Puerto Rico, (Miguel Cancel was born in Illinois). He was also the first member who spoke English fluently, since Robby was born and grew up in New York, and moved to Puerto Rico later. His interest in music led him to audition for Menudo and where he replaced Johnny Lozada and quickly became a fan favorite. With the groups cross-over to the [[english language) occurring at the time, Robby's timing to join Menudo was perfect, as he was able to sing most of the English songs. The groups first English album Reaching Out featured a single which was in Hollywood hit Cannonball Run 2. The single was sung by Robby. On Robby's second album with the group he sang his first Spanish single hit which was called Sabes A Chocolate (You taste like chocolate). On his third album with Menudo another English hit was followed with Hold Me which gained airplay on most mainstream radio stations and had a music video that gained play. He was replaced in Menudo by Ruben Gomez after the band's manager denied Rosa the opportunity to contribute songs to the group. However, Rosa quit at age 17, 1 year over the limit set by management of the boy-band.

Solo career
After Menudo, Rosa took up residence in Brazil, recording some music in Portuguese. Upon his return to the United States he went on to star in a minor Hollywood hit, the 1988 movie Salsa. On the set, Rosa fell in love with his co-star Angela Alvarado. They wed a few months after the movie's release, started raising a family and have also been working as partners in Rosa's different projects ever since.

In 1990 Rosa moved to Los Angeles and formed a rock band called "Maggie's Dream" which released an album under Capitol Records. In the early 1990s Rosa legally changed his name to "Draco Cornelius Rosa" (draco means "dragon" in Latin) saying he wanted to leave his old image and lifestyle behind. During this time, he released two albums which differ greatly from each other. The first one, Frio was released in 1994 and featured a pop sound along with soft rock influences. His second major work, Vagabundo, was released in 1996 and marked a drastic change from the previous album and image. Under the name Draco, Rosa created a heavy and dark album that carried elements of goth, psychedelia, and heavy metal. Vagabundo is considered one of the greatest Rock en Español albums of all time.

During this time Rosa began collaborating with former Menudo colleague Ricky Martin, co-writing many of Martin's biggest hits, among them "Livin' La Vida Loca", "She Bangs", "Maria" and "The Cup of Life". He and co-writer Desmond Child earned Grammy nominations for their work with Martin.

In 1998 he released his first english-language album, titled Songbirds and Roosters. It featured the English versions of the tracks from his debut album Frío. In 2001 Rosa released a greatest hits album called Libertad del Alma which featured songs from an upcoming album in which he had been working for more than three years.

In 2003, Draco again re-invented himself yet again, in preparation for the release of his most ambitious project yet, an album titled Mad Love Released in March 2004, the album contained tragic love themes in different musical genres ranging from hard rock to flamenco ballads. The album was comprised of 15 songs, 3 of which are sung in Spanish. The album was the first to earn Rosa international recognition beyond Latin America, becoming widely popular in Europe. Rosa toured the continent with Lenny Kravitz in the summer of 2004.

Rosa received a Latin Grammy Award in 2004 for the video clip of the song "Más y Más". In September 2004, Draco took his show to Puerto Rico's new 18,000-capacity Coliseo de Puerto Rico, selling out the venue. A CD/DVD of the event was released on December 6, 2005, titled DRACO Al Natural. He capped 2005 with 7 sold out concerts at Puerto Rico's "Bellas Artes" theatre in the month of September. His new album, "Teatro del Absurdo", was released on July of 2007, exclusively in Puerto Rico and online. The album will be released in different countries sporadically through the course of the next year.

Personal life
Rosa currently lives in Los Angeles with his wife Angela and two sons, Revel and Redamo, although he also has a residence in Puerto Rico. Rosa has been known for using many different pseudonyms when writing songs for other artists. Among them are "Dolores del Infante", "Ian Blake" and "Phantom Vox". On December 19, 2005 multi-artist Celso Gonzalez introduced an installation called "El Ultimo Viaje: El Entierro de Robi Rosa" ("The Final Voyage: The Burial of Robi Rosa") at Puerto Rico's Museo de Arte Contemporaneo.

4. Japanese band consisting of Mima (vocals, keyboards) and Naoki Morimoto (guitar, percussion).

5. Japanese ethnic electronica band.  It's members are 井上憲司 Kenji INOUE (sitar), 吉見征樹 Masaki YOSHIMI (tabla, vocals), NUMB (electronics), and SAIDRUM (electronics).  Their first album is entitled "ZERO".

6. A British unsigned Hip Hop artist (aka. Steven James Millington). Born Shrewsbury, January 16th 1992. Rapper with social themed lyrics and attitudes. Produces his own beats using an MPC5000. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Draco">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.