There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Dragonwyck was an American psychedelic rock band formed in Cleveland, Ohio in 1969. They recorded an album locally in 1970 and tried to attract label attention without success. Before finally calling it quits in 1975, the band recorded two other albums' worth of material as well as a single. The 2004 release of their self-titled debut album includes bonus tracks recorded by the band's previous incarnation, named Sunrise (AKA The Sunrise).
In October 1969 Dragonwyk appeared on the circuit spurting its mystical psychedelic fire amongst the dance halls and clubs of North East Ohio. The obvious strength of the group was the Doors like voice of Bill Pettijohn and the sizzling guitar riffs of ex Mortycyans Tom Brehm while Jack Boessneck played drums, Mike Gerchak bass and Kenneth Staab mellotron. Dragonwyk’s notoriety grew incestuously in the Cleveland area only really rivaled by Morly Grey or the fuzz fuming Freeman Sound & Heavy Friends that had knocked them out of the Starshines Productions - Battle Of The Bands. (Freeman Sound & Heavy Friends was a flowerpower quintet that exalted wah wah pedal and breakpoint organ, acknowledged for putting out the heaviest version of Merle Travis’ “16 Tons”.
Dragonwyk now slightly more Prog put out a batch of recordings while operating as Sunrise which were largely ignored. The dirge drum rolls that opened the eerie “Fire Climbs” hovered with traits of Iron Butterfly yet their sound at times was very Fever Tree. These hipcats were great songwriters if you amble through “Flowers Grow Free” or the surging Strawberry Alarm Clock styled “Vision” that opened up really heavy. What really sticks infectiously with Sunrise is their eclectic sense of romanticism that poetically spills through the harmony laden “Anything I Give” or drum / fuzz enhanced “Ancient Child”, a Doors anthem in the likes of the Freudian “The End”.
Dragonwyk eventually took birth out of the ashes of Sunrise to give forth a superb 1970 self titled debut, far from their Undertakers style which they had embraced during the Mortycyan period.The reverberating mellotron opener “My Future Waits” already paints the picture with its daunting hymn dirge carrying tenements of the Canadian Collectors. The highlight is Staab’s “Run To The Devil” not unlike Vanilla Fudge’s funeral parlor exorcism, or Hammond droning “God’s Dream”, a man far beyond the realm of Sunrise’  Skip Foster. Dragonwyk returned to the States to celebrate their new found status performing at Micky Finn’s Pandora’s Box in Kent where they zapped Glass Harp clean off the stage.
In 1972 the group launched Dragon wyk 11 which included their 1974 debut  “Lovin’ The Boys” / “The Music”.The highlights were the spin riffing “Freedom Son”, phased “Dead Man” and “Forever Only Lasts A Little While” soaring with high toned guitar and air harmony. Their last album Fun died from a commercial virus.

2) Dragonwyck is a power metal band from Akron, Ohio, United States. Members include Kenny Reymann (vocals), Chris Miller (bass), Brian DeLuca (rhythm guitar), Patrick Garret (drums), Tony DeLuca (guitar), Nick Phelps (bass), Michael "Mike" Todd (drums). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dragonwyck">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.