The name Dragonsfire can refer to one of 2 bands:

1)The heavy metal band DRAGONSFIRE was founded on January 1st in the new year of 2005 by the singer and bass-player Torsten Thassilo Herbert, both guitarists Matthias Bludau and Thorsten Brand and the Drummer Jan Müller in the Rhein-Main-Area. The four musicians new eachother already, played together and developed the concept of the new formed band. In march 2005 the band decided to get a fifth member. Peter Kalabis took the frontman position.
In 2005 the band already entered the stages with more than 100 minutes playing-time and was able to play 15 gigs and to do several interviews. The concerts brought them quite positive resonance. Also at well-known locations like the Batschkapp, Frankfurt or the Goldene Krone, Darmstadt. So DRAGONSFIRE became more and more known at the Rhein-Main-Area.
From July to September 2005 DRAGONSFIRE entered the “Kohlekeller Studios” to record an EP with 27 minutes of total running time in a professional surrounding. The EP was called "BURNING FOR METAL" an gives you an overview over the musical bandwidth of the band. But: “BURNING FOR METAL” is more. It stands for musicians with heavy metal in their veins.

The beginning of the year 2006 was coined by the incoming reviews of our EP "BURNING FOR METAL". 20 reviews in different magazines gave us a very positive feedback concerning the CD. It also was reviewd in well known print magazines like the german "METAL HAMMER" and the "HEAVY"-Magazine.
In June 2006 the band seperated itself from their singer Peter. The vocals where now taken by Thassilo again.
2006 was the year the band went longer ways. DRAGONSFIRE left the Rhein-Main Area and played gigs for example in Switzerland or the Rhur-Area. A support show for Annihilator was planned, but did not take place, because the whole Annihilator tour was canceled.

2007 brought more great shows for the band. There where supports for Wizard, Dezperados and Rebellion.
From January to April the band had a female singer called Kathi Heßler. But after a few month the band decided to go on without her an with Thassilo as the voice of DRAGONSFIRE.
In the end of April Thorsten Brand decided to leave the band because of health problems. For him Timo Rauscher took over the position on the guitar and played his first gig eith DRAGONSFIRE after beeing in the band for one week!

2) A vocal and multi-instrumental quartet playing period and folk music, from Kent, England. 
Dragonsfire is a quartet of remarkable versatility. Each member not only sings but is a multi-instrumentalist and they play a huge array of instruments. Every piece in their repertoire is arranged by a member of the group, making even the most wellknown song into something new. They draw on early music, traditional British folk song and light classical music as the basis for their arrangements, so their repertoire is a delightful crossover of musical styles. All their performances are marked by an informal, yet totally professional presentation. This original and accomplished approach has led to them being in great demand for public concerts, and for private functions and corporate events. Dragonsfire performs for receptions, dinners, product launches, weddings, parties, conferences and other events. They often perform as Medieval / Tudor minstrels but they also enhance many other themed events. The group also offer workshops and specially tailored concerts to schools and other educational establishments. They regularly play in venues of distinction all over the united Kingdom, and past engagements have taken them to Canada and many countries in Europe, Scandinavia and the Middle East. Dragonsfire has appeared on television and radio in this country and abroad, and they have composed and performed music both for radio and for theatrical productions. They also have several recordings available. Website: http://www.dragonsfire.uk.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dragonsfire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.