The elusive Dragged Into Sunlight are a UK extreme metal act, with a collective of members, of whom some have maintained their involvement with profiled acts throughout the preceding decade.

The band have carved a unique sound established in 2006 and an underground following akin to a vast spread of bands active in the late 90s extreme, doom, death, black metal and harsh noise genres. Dragged Into Sunlight cite no specific influence other than the depression, isolation, abuse and calculated violence abundant in contemporary society.

In 2008, the band released a limited edition tape known as ‘Terminal Aggressor’ which was heavily traded, eventually selling out and never re-pressed.

In 2009, the band released their debut full length ‘Hatred for Mankind’ on the then resurrected Mordgrimm Records, known for artists such as Anaal Nathrakh, Eagle Twin and Attila Cshir. The record, mastered by Billy Anderson (Eyehategod, Weedeater and Sunn) and produced by Tom Dring (Magpyes, Horsebastard and Wizard Of Misery) summoned an immediate cult following setting the benchmark for what is an ultimately unique and extreme sound. The band’s sound is best described as ‘a blistering void of total negativity’ having drawn comparison to fellow lifers Incantation, Rudimentary Peni, Wolves In the Throneroom, Eyehategod and Beherit.

Having gained notoriety for their exclusive, vicious and ritualistic live performance, Dragged Into Sunlight went on to tour in Europe with Eyehategod, Weedeater, Black Cobra, Rwake, Today is the Day and Soilent Green. Dragged Into Sunlight are known for their approach to live shows, similarly to bands such as Jucifer, sometime performing sets consisting entirely of soundscapes and projection work.

In 2011, Hatred For Mankind was re-released on Prosthetic Records, primarily known for mainstream acts such as Lamb of God, Skeletonwitch, and 1349. Despite Prosthetic’s distinctive roster, Dragged Into Sunlight have always maintained a nigrescent presence, with their roots firmly planted in the underground of the extreme metal scene.

In 2012, Dragged Into Sunlight are due to perform at some of the world’s most esteemed extreme metal festivals including Roadburn in Holland, SWR in Portugal and Maryland Deathfest in the US. The release of what will be the first installment of a conceptual trilogy known as ‘Widowmaker’ is also due for release later in the year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dragged+Into+Sunlight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.