Dragon's Cave is the new musical project by the Italian guitar player Steve Angarthal , who is introducing his first solo cd called “Elektro motion” under indipendent label Asgardh Music. 
This work features a long selection of tracks focused on his guitar style ranging from progressive rock instrumentals to ethereal acoustical pieces and amazing rock songs that showcase Steve himself taking hold of  the lead vocals. 
Steve has been the guitar player and song writer, of one the most famous Italian metal bands called Fire Trails that was founded by himself and italian rock icon Pino Scotto. 
Fire trails recorded two cds “Vanadium tribute” (Underground Symphony) and “Third moon” (Valery Records), and played the related tours including the most important events such as “Gods of metal”, “Heineken Jammin festival”, “Agglutination” etc. The band also landed support tour with greats such as Deep Purple, R.J.Dio, Iron Maiden, Glenn hughes, Joe Lynn Turner, etc.. 
Steve Angarthal is also present as guest musician on lead guitar of Italian artists Rezophonic , Myland (No man's land), MC Project (XXIX anima) and Pino Scotto (lo scotto da pagare). 
After all this experiences Steve has now unleashed his mastery in guitar playing and his eclectic skills in musical interpretation and composition. 
Thus Steve has managed to compose and arrange all the music for his debut solo cd; joining Steve on the project are drummers Mario Giannini ( Fire Trails , Beholder e Node) who performs on  all the tracks and Mario Riso (Rezophonic, Movida, RAF) for the percussions' parts. Finally keyboardist Larsen Premoli ( Fire Trails , Looking for a name , Good Wines) adding hammonds, synths and pianos. 
Even the production's aspects are under his control for he's the one to record ( here Larsen Premoli gives his help for the drums and vocals sessions), to mix and following the mastering process of this cd. 
In late 2009 the Dragon’s cave line up is completed with the arrival of Pasko; his curriculum features many important artists like Love Machine, Sigma, Rumore, Warlord, Cans, Human Steps
Dragon’s Cave is thus a new reality based on high level musicians ready to hit the audience with an intense music centered on the virtuosity and powerful lyricism of Steve Angarthal 's guitar playing supported by the same mastery and energy from the rest of the band!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dragon%27s+Cave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.