DRAIN-LIFE ARE NOT OUT TO TAKE ANY PRISONERS

This five piece are out for mass destruction and total demise. Drain-Life, hail from Rotterdam, Netherlands and were formed late 1996, early 1997. 
Around that time they started out as a band with influences that ranged from New York Hardcore to Vegan Metalcore . 
Lyricly everything comes off vocalist York's hands and ranges from personal issues, inner...struggles and depression to world problematic issues, warfare, poverty and oppression... 
in the end, it all comes down to the truth in life, and the many struggles it brings, till it ultimately leads to death. 

Determined and ready for war... 
and a war it is; sharing many stages with Merauder, Sworn Enemy, 100 Demons, Kickback, Pro-Pain, Shattered Realm, Buldoze, Terror and many more 

Drain-Life never stopped writing material! 
and after a decade, a dozen Demo Tapes, a Demo CD, a Mini CD, the full length A Prospect of Despair and their latest blueprint of truth calles 'Revelations of the Enslaved' which saw daylight midd 2012 and was released on CFR Belgium

Through the many years they grew from a Hardcore band with Metal influences into a 90's Vegan style Metalcore band with brutal Death / Thrash Metal riffs, Hardcore Beatdowns and Midd-Tempo triplets, phat mosh parts and Hardcore breakdowns. 
Nowadays you can even find influences from early Death Metal, Norwegian Black Metal from the 90’s, the Bay Area Thrash from the 80’s and the New Wave of American Metal sound of today. 
but they always maintained that Hardcore edge 
Through dedication and determination they survived it all and their explosive and professional live performances is proof of just that 
Being in the game for more than fifteen years, made them the hardest and longest running band in the Rotterdam area, and that reputation made them last countless shows everywhere, 
they are now maybe more motivated than ever to write better songs, greater records and doing even more shows. 

HAILZ!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drain+Life">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.