Drammagothica is a Gothic Metal band formed in  Italy  (Benevento, Campania)  in  2001. The original lineup consisted of Julian Iuliano - Drums
Laura Santangelo - Female Vocals
Luca Lombardi - Vocals
Marco Lombardi - Guitar
Lucia Penna - Bass, and
Carlo De Filippo - Keyboards.

Drammagothica project finds its roots in 2001, a chain of events leads Julian Iuliano and Marco Lombardi seeking melodious and orchestral sounds but also strong and powerful. The fortune allowed them to meet Lucia Penna (Bass) and Carlo De Filippo (keys and synths) that are integral and fundamental part of Drammagothica for ages. But they didn’t have fortune in the search for voice, in fact, they were driven to try a type of female clean and tender voice but that not gave the right body to the songs. The change of the line-up allowed the entry into the band of Manuela Romano, which returned to Drammagothica the original idea of power with her charming soprano voice (already used by other gothic metal bands combined with the strong rythms that the genre require). With the entry in the band of Luca Lombardi the Drammagothica acquire the aspect that had for a long time sought. Luca’s growl voice managed to offset the treble of the female voice and to give songs more pressing rhythmically but also aggressively melodic. Drammagothica went on well with this line-up taking their name and their music throughout their province and not only because with their first experience in the studio they recorded a four-track demo (INVER NO) described by critics as an expression of symphonic and neoclassical gothic metal. But things change, the experiences change the people and this is demonstrate by a new line-up with the advent of the new female clean voice of Laura Santangelo that leads the impetus of the Drammagothica in a record of their first album (IRA) full of new ideas and witness of the growth of the group over the years.

Their offical website, http://www.drammagothica.it/.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drammagothica">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.