DRASTIC SOLUTION is  Patrizio Panariti - Drums, Marco Lecce - Vocals/ Bass, and  Piero Greco -  Guitar... The band was born in Lizzano (TA) Italy, the 31st of July 2012 when Patrizio Panariti , decided to go back behind drums to compose fast and powerful old style Thrash Metal / HC . He unites Piero Greco , guitarist with whom he worked in the past and Marco Lecce on vocals. 
The 2nd of August they break the ice entering the studio to work on " Rising Death" , a song composed by Patrizio in 1999. After three months Enzo De Bartolomeo, joins as bassist. Between August 2012 and January 2013 they work on new compositions , and on May 3th, the band enters the OLD SOUNDS STUDIO to record their debut album. The 31 July 2013, the band comes in contact with Wine Blood Records that decides to produce their album. Waiting for the worldwide distribution , the 3rd of December the official video for the title track " Thrashers " was released. May 14, 2014 Album is FINALLY OUT!!!! 
The band started with his live activity, with some storic metal fests like "HILL METAL FEST" and "R.M. FEST" and newest like "PURE DISASTER Extreme Metal Fest".
In the meantime Enzo part ways with the band, and the search of a new bass player began.After many unsuccesful auditions and collaborations, that bringed the band to a forced live inactivity, Piero decided to cover the role of bass player himself.So in the summer of 2015, the band started rehearsing with a Patrizio's old friend, Antonio Agrusta on guitar.
At this point the band feel that with the new member, Drastic Solution line-up is complete, and that they finally return to working on the new album. The recordings will take place in January 2016 at OLD SOUNDS STUDIO.After having recorded and mixed their second album in March 2016, Antonio, the newest member in the Drastic family, due to health problems, had to leave the band permanently and that is why they decided to stop publishing those recordings.
After yet another misfortune that had befallen them, their morale was low, and they decided to stop all activities indefinitely. 
Tired of looking for a fourth member, considering all the time lost in recent years for this very reason, they decided to discontinue research and stay in 3 members (the original founders of the band), with Marco no longer just for the vocals, but also for playing bass. And it was so that, with a TRIO solution,in the last days of December 2016, they have started re-recording of all the songs of the album, working in the following months with Luca Miolla for mixing. The album was completed on March 2017, and soon the band will start the submission to record labels. 
The band will start again with a massive live activity and planning a national tour for this autumn. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DrAstic+SolutioN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.