The traditional folk music group Draupner, from the Swedish province of Hälsingland have played together since Christmas 1994.

The group had a smash breakthrough at the "Musik Direkt" national festival in 1995. The festival is the biggest competition of Sweden for young musicians and Draupner won several prizes. Already then many people were fascinated by the boys' vigorous and intimate ensamble playing.

Since then the boys from Hälsingland have played for the Swedish King and Queen at the solemn opening of the Swedish Parliament. They also have made quite a few appearances in Sweden and abroad. France, Estonia, Norway, Greenland, Iceland and recently a tour in the United States.

Recording of new cd in 2006
In march 2001 Draupner released their first CD on Caprice Records and it recieved very good reactions from news and audiences. In spring 2003 the boys released their follow-up CD called "Arvet" and in 2005 they released the CD "Sagnadans" with icelandic ballads. During the autumn 2006 Draupner is recording their fourth CD.

Islandic dance songs
Together with the icelandic female singer Anna Pálína Árnadóttir Draupner has put together an program with old icelandic dance ballads. In august 2002 Draupner were in Reykjavik to perform this act. Five concerts with all tickets sold, three radio- and one tv-performance were the result during the week. The project resulted in the CD "Sagnadans" relesed on the icelandic record label Dimma.

In the tradition on which the group is founded, there are a lot of prominent figures such as Jon Erik Hall, Jon Erik Öst and Hultkläppen from northern Hälsingland, Erik Ljung and the Härdelin family in Delsbo and from the valley of Ljusnan From-Olle a.o.

The pieces are a glorious assortment of traditional tunes from all over Hälsingland as well as a number of the group's own compositions. An excellent mixture of impressive music of this province from past and present. A mixture showing us that the folk music traditions of Hälsingland are just as alive and in good hands now as in olden days.

Draupner are Henning Andersson (fiddle), Görgen Antonsson (fiddle, 5-stringed fiddle) and Tomas Lindberg (guitar, mandola). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Draupner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.