There is more than one artist with this name:

1) A band from Puebla, Mexico blending alternative, prog and rock music in a fresh and innovative mix for Alterlatino and spanish rock.

2) DRAWN was an exceptionally obscure Metal-tingled Psychedelic Progressive group, founded by Atle Dørum and Per K, . The group’s line-up consisted of Atle Dørum (vocals, guitars), Christer Cederberg ( known for his work with the Psychedelic Metal legends IN THE WOODS and ANIMAL ALPHA)…, in Kristiansand, Norway, (guitars, vocals), Per K(bass guitar) and Thomaz (drums). The collective was signed to Prophecy Production, for which they recorded two albums – an EP titled “Plan Be”, released in 1998, which was made of four tracks and was more like a warm-up before the debut album than anything; and the follow-up, called “A New World?” – a full-length album, which was released in 1999 under the same Label, after which the group ended their activity for no apparent reason. The group did not receive any proper advertising and consequently has not achieved any success in the underground circles and finding any information about them is almost impossible nowadays. Much like later era IN THE WOODS…, DRAWN explored an intriguing kind of music, that blends the tendencies and moods of Metal with psychedelic, progressive and ambient music, albeit Christer Cederberg, who was not the key figure behind ITW’s songwriting, has his own vision of composing music in this style. The group’s only full-length is impressively futuristic and forward-thinking, fusing contradicting elements to conceive a conceptual, spontaneous creation and can very well be considered one of the most innovative Norwegian projects. Their sombre, dark, atmospheric and eerie sound is unique and can not be compared to anything else, however, fans of IN THE WOODS… and OPETH, as light as the similarity between DRAWN and these band is, will find the engaging music of this group to be fascinating enough. Highly recommended to listeners of atmospheric Prog-Metal and heavier modern Psychedelic in general.

 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.