It was 1990 when George Zacharoglou and Dimitri Marcou formed a band together.
In 1992, after John Basimakopoulos (drums) and Michael Kypreos (bass) joined the band, Dream Weaver were in action!
The band records "DREAM WEAVER" a 2 song promo-tape in late 1993, and the next year
the band is starting to play live at the local clubs.

Dream Weaver continued rehearsing and finally their first official demo tape was released in May 1995.
"DREAM WITHIN A DREAM" demo '95 was highly accepted by fans and press and worldwide spread.
The next couple of years, studies and having to join the army, was a major set back for the band,
though George and Dimitri never stopped making music and look ahead.

In the year 1999, the band became active again and after some concerts, the first official release was ready. "FANTASY REVEALED" included 5 songs and released under Secret Port Records on February 2001,
setting Dream Weaver's name back in business!

Just after the recordings of "FANTASY REVEALED" mcd, on October 2000,
the bass player Michael Kypreos was replaced by Takis Fitos, who actually took over the backing vocals and gave the band a new potential.
His unique style and performance along with his great songwriting, entered Dream Weaver to the millenium.

With their unique sound, Dream Weaver managed to be characterized as a new force and hope for the underground metal scene.
Next year, 2 new songs were recorded and released on a 7" single called "SOULSEARCHING", under a newborn label Eat Metal Records.
The same titled track is the single of the full-length Dream weaver forthcoming album.
In the mid-time the band earned a lot of experience by playing live and giving explosive gigs,
proving that Dream weaver is a very powerful act on stage.

The last months of 2002 found Dream Weaver in the studio recording their new album. 11 songs were ready.
This is the most mature work of the band and the songs are more complete than ever.
The melodies and the characteristic feeling of Dream Weaver is here along with some new elements and fresh ideas.

In June 2003 "WORDS CARVED WITHIN" album is a fact and released under the label of Secret port records.
The band expands and raises its standards both musically and technically.
The dark melodies combined with power riffing and lyricism makes Dream Weaver what stands for.
The variety of the playlist, makes concerts very rich and interesting. From pure power songs, to dark metal and even progressive elements.

Later on, Nick Anastasiadis joins the band on drums, replacing John who was the drummer for 13 years!
John left the band for personal resons and will always be a Weaver!
Nick's solid drumming and pounding grooving style takes Dream Weaver even further.

The band is working hard in the studio and new songs are comming up.
By the end of 2008 ten songs are ready for recording.
Meanwhile Kostas Fitos, Takis's brother, joins the band as a second guitar player and the pack is complete.

Having decided to make the best out of the production, they choose George Alamaras and George Florakis at N.U.R.V. Studios.
For the final mastering, the work sent to George Marino at the Sterling sound studios in New York, USA.
By December 2010 the new album MYTHREAL is ready. Solid rhythm section, great guitars and everything in place...

Dark and melodic metal that creates the unique Dream Weaver feeling and atmosphere.
Power riffing, no keyboards and melodies that stick to your mind. Surely the best work of the band up today.

20 years and on... Now the band is looking forward to the release of the album and of course playing live... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dream+Weaver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.