There are multiplie artists with this name (maybe more):
1) Space rock band from UK.
2) Heavy psych band from US.
3) Experimental band from Germany.
3) Disco soul band based in Los Angeles.

1. Dream Machine (UK).
"A world seen through a kaleidoscope; an explosion of lights, colours, shapes all in constant change, as if some mad wizard is having fun changing, at whim, the world that we know..."

Dream Machine are a space rock supergroup, based in London, UK. Dream Machine play music that can be described as psychedelic and ambient rock music, incorporating guitar, synthesizers and woodwind instruments. Dream Machine has accomplished musicians from space rock and psychedelic festival bands such as Ozric Tentacles, Eat Static and Here & Now.

History

Dream Machine was formed by Gabriele Tosti (ex Thunderdogs Circus Archaos) who wanted to create a new progressive space rock group in 2002. The group was composed of Gabriele Tosti (bass), Farley Brian (drums), Julian Adamoli (piano and organ), Tom Harris (on saxophone) and Dan (scratch DJ).

The name "Dream Machine" came from a dream that Gabriele Tosti experienced. The first names considered for the group were "The Omenoid" and then "Blue Land of Dreams". This was then shortened to "Land of Dreams" as the first working title. After further consideration "Dream Machine" was chosen as Gabriele felt it was a more progressive title for the fledgling group. The name "Land of Dreams" was reused to describe a musical collaboration with Gabriele Tosti and Gavin Griffiths (ex-guitarist for the Ozric Tentacles) that continues today.

Farley Brian moved on from the group in 2002. Farley was an accomplished designer and VJ featuring at large dance venues. He left to focus on these activities and Dream Machine found a replacement percussionist in the form of the former Ozric Tentacles percussionist Rad.

The first formal public performance of Dream Machine was for a benefit gig for the War Child charity held at the Pullens Centre in Kennington, South London in January 2003. This event was one of a number of events that culminated in the Stop the War protest in Central London in February. The original lineup at this event was Gabriele Tosti on bass, Jules Adamoli on piano and organ, Dan as scratch DJ, James Gilbert on Sax and Rad on drums.

Rad was an established band member by October 2003 playing in gigs at Camberwell and Peckham. Dream Machine then played several gigs at the Grove Tavern in Wimbledon starting December 2003 and at this time was joined by Alex Pym (former guitar player in Damidge). They were also joined on stage by the former Ozric Tentacles members, "Jumping" Jon Egan (on woodwind) and Seaweed (on synths) who added their talent and experience to the lineup. Finally, Tony D'Amico (from Thunderdogs Circus Archaos) provided a guest performance on vocals for this venue.

Dream Machine continued with rehearsing and gigging for several months until Dan left to concentrate on club DJing. Rad's presence as drummer was also sadly short lived - he moved out of London and left the group in April 2004. James also left around this time. Dream Machine were now looking for another percussionist to fill in after Rad's departure. Johnny Morgan from Senser filled in on drums temporarily. Maurizio Rossi, an Italian drummer from Rome joined the band as their new drummer in December 2004.

By 2006, Jon had formally joined the band as frontman and woodwind player, in a similar role to his two decades with the Ozric Tentacles. Seaweed was also invited to join as a permanent band member, but due to work commitments he was unable to do so.

Joie Hinton (a founding member of Ozric Tentacles, one half of Eat Static and member of Here & Now) also joined the band at this point to contribute his inimitable style of space rock keyboard playing.

The band played various gigs in 2006, including festival dates at Sunrise Solstice Celebration and Eastern Haze. At these festivals they were joined on stage by Mindflux. Following these performances, he was invited to join the band as a full member and now adds synth and percussion as his contribution to the band.

Following the Eastern Haze festival, Maurizio decided to pursue a different musical path and stepped down by mutual agreement with Dream Machine. Metro (another former Ozric Tentacles percussionist) then took over as drummer. Unfortunately Metro had to move away from London and with other obligations he had with another band, he was unable to continue as percussionist although he did guest on two tracks on the second Dream Machine album - 'The Castle Of A Thousand Universes' (2008).

In 2007, Steve Cassidy (formerly of Here & Now) was introduced as the band's new drummer, and debuted with Dream Machine at the 2007 Sunrise, Eastern Haze and Waveform 2007 festivals

In early 2008 Joie Hinton retired from Eat Static and Dream Machine, although he still plays with Hear & Now.

Reviews of Dream Machine performances for the 2007 festival season have been positive. Reviews from the eFestivals website praise Jon's performance at the Waveform festival - "..Jon's astonishing flute work, sorely missed from the latest incarnations of former band the Ozric Tentacles, was a delight for the aurals..". The review of the 2007 Sunrise Festival included - "..excellent musicians in great form..". They are also mentioned in the Eastern Haze review on eFestivals.co.uk.

The review of the 2006 Sunrise Festival on this site also said - "The most innovative and original space/fusion rock band around at the moment.

Dream Machine continue to play frequent live performances and released their second album - 'The Castle Of A Thousand Universes' in August 2008

Dream Machine played the mainstage of the 2008 Wickerman Festival in Scotland, on the evening of Saturday 26 June 2008.

In 2009 Dream Machine headlined the Cosmic Puffin Festival and also the Thimbleberry Festival, County Durham on September 25.

Band members

The current band line up is:
Gabriele Tosti (Bass Guitar)
Alex Pym (Guitar)
Jules Adamoli (Piano, Organ and Synth)
Jon Egan (Flutes and Reeds)
Mindflux (Percussions and Synth)
Steve Cassidy (Drums)

Discography

Trilogia (2005)
The Castle Of A Thousand Universes (2008)
Temple Of Dreams (2018)

Musical Influences

Alex Pym's guitar style for Dream Machine was influenced by Steve Hillage (Gong / System 7), Jimi Hendrix, Dave Gilmour (Pink Floyd), Buddy Guy, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Angus Young (AC/DC), Jimmy Page (Led Zeppelin), Carlos Santana and Jeff Beck.

Gabriele Tosti (Bass Guitar) - John Paul Jones (Led Zeppelin), Chris Squire (Yes), Steve Hillage (Gong / System 7)

Julian (Jules) Adamoli (Keyboards)- Jimmy Smith, Miquette Giraudy, Keith Emerson, Eumir Deodato

Jon Egan (woodwind) - Omar Faruk Tekbilek

Mindflux (percussion/synthesiser) - Eat Static, Prince, Pink Floyd

Steve Cassidy (drums) - Billy Cobham



2. Dream Machine (US).
Heavy Psych band from Austin, TX, United States.

Dream Machine is a new band from lo-fi master Matthew Melton (Bare Wires, Warm Soda) and his wife Doris.

You get Melton’s craft of fuzzed up power pop with the late 60’s / early 70’s rock of The Doors, Deep Purple and Iron Butterfly. This mix brings you plenty of organ with lots of riffing guitars.

Taking a time warp in music can be rewarding at times as Dream Machine fully proves the point on their debut. Matthew Melton takes big riffing guitars, organ solos and his wife’s vocals for a new twist on some old rock grooves that feels weirdly fresh in 2017.

Members:
Matthew Melton (guitar, vocals)
Doris Melton (organ, synthesizer, vocals)
Ugo Martinez (bass)
Dillon Fernandez (drums)

Discography:
The Illusion (2017)
Breaking The Circle (2017) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dream+Machine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.