Bio

The Story begins in the early 2005:

Once upon a time there were two bands. The first was
called In Silent Asylum, and it consisted of three young
musicians. Whom were (in no particular order) Matias
Autio, Luca Porru and Toni Berg. The other band, which
didn't have a name yet, also consisted of three young
musicians; Jan Nyman, Petri Jokisalo and Jani Kantanen.
Both bands affected in eastern Helsinki, and when Jan and
Petri kicked Kantanen out from their lineup they asked
Matias to take his place. At first Matias wanted to keep
ISA as his primary project, but when he noticed that his
cooperation with Jan and Petri worked out better, he
decided to put an end to ISA so he could concentrate
better on his new band.

The band began training their own basic trash metal songs
at the slums of Espoo, Finland, in a shabby old garage. At this
point the band thought of joining the Ääni & Vimma (2005)
band contest, but decided not to due to lack of training.
The trash metal songs they played at first soon changed
into the compositions of Matias, which they started to
train real hard.

Originally Matias had made the songs on Cold Morning
-demo for ISA, but as he played them for Jan and Petri the
guys got really excited about them and began to play the
songs of Matias. Accidentally Matias had become the
head of the band. The band continued reahearsing, and
Matias recorded a bunch of new songs at his home for the
Last Note -demo (autumn 2005).

Soon after the band began to train in the Vuosaari
Highschool, with their new basist, Niko Reinikainen. The
first goal of the band was to play at the Vuosaari
Hichscools "nightschool" (a kind of party for the students
at night with live music, games, buffet and other sorts of
entertainment). For this gig they persuaded a friend of
theirs, Kalle Oittinen, to play guitar, due to lack of time
and Matias' skills. They played for about a hundred people.

After their first gig the band began rehearsing for the Ääni
& Vimma (2006) band contest. At this point Kalle and
Niko had already left the band.

And so the Ääni & Vimma was played with the following lineup:

Matias Autio, vocals and guitar
Jan Nyman, guitar
Petri Jokisalo, drums

Despite of a good performance the band wasn't allowed to
continue to the semifinals, so they continued to rehears
at the Vuosaari Highschool. Matias began to write new
songs at a rapid pace, which formed the new demo
Reflections of Truth, they also made a promotional version
of the demo to be sent out to record companies. Pete left
the band in the end of October due to lack of motivation,
and was quickly replaced by Joonatan Juvonen.

The band ended on 2009 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dream+Smashers+INC.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.