There are multiple bands called Dreamland:

1. Dreamland from Sweden. Band was formed in 2003. They have recorded "Masquerade" (demo) in 2003, and three full length albums."Future's Calling" in 2005, "Eye for an Eye" in 2006 and "Exit 49" in 2009. They play power metal.

2. Dreamland from Colombia. Band was formed in 2004. They've recorded Chasin' Dreams (demo) in 2004. They play melodic heavy metal.

3. DREAMLAND (www.dreamland.pl) hail from Poznań, Poland. They were quite well known band in their hometown. The group played mostly pop, funk, soul, and groove with good rap as well. Dreamland was not only a blend of different styles but also shared the personality and musical experience of each member. Their fans consisted of both young people and older colleagues who enjoy listening to their good musical talent and excellent lyrics.  Dreamland has strived to entertain people and enjoy playing live. They made sure that every live show represents their best effort and they love to share a special message to all those who care to listen. After releasing their full album the band split up.

4. Dreamland contains 3 members: singer Helis and dancers Kristi & Reelika.
The band was established in july 2004, when two Tre music dj-s Triple Y & Treble discoverd that in Estonia you cant find a band who makes a good dance music in „Germany style”.
From the idea to band takes only month, when they found the most suitable singer. Also Triple Y has finished Dreamlands first single „Color of the night” and after July 2004 the band vocalist is pronounced to be Helis.
In summer 2005, before the second single release, the band dancers Reelika and Kristi joined .
Dreamlands first single "Color of the night" was pretty sucsessful, the single was 4 months in Radio 2 top 20.
Radio 2 is the biggest radio in Estonia targeted to young people. Single was also hot in Marta FM and few other Estonian Radios. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dreamland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.