The new wave of melodic death metal is coming from Switzerland, a country which has never given birth to any important act of this genre. Dreamshade's newest album “The Gift Of Life” Dreamshade present the sound of progression. New singer Kevin Calì (who has been in the band since October 2011) has indeed brought to the band "The Gift Of Life". Whereas the debut album “What Silence Hides” showcased the energy, musicianship and technical prowess of a young up-and-coming group, more song oriented in nature, the emotively powerful "The Gift Of Life" not only has the chops, but also the hooks, the melodies, the catchiness and the expressiveness that separate the leaders of the genre from the followers. With “The Gift Of Life” Dreamshade take their place in the front line of international metal.

Formed in 2006, Dreamshade built their first lineup for more than a year.  2 years later they released their debut EP "To The Edge Of Reality" and played at some of the most prestigious Euro festivals such as MetalCamp 2008 and 2009, Summer Breeze Open Air 2009, Metalfest 2010 and more.

In September 2010 the band signed with Spinefarm Records/Universal Music. January 26th of 2011 saw the release of the band’s debut album "What Silence Hides" worldwide. The record was mixed by Fredrik Nordström at Studio Fredman in Sweden and mastered by George Marino at Sterling Sound in New York, USA. A special edition of the album containing a bonus track "It's Worth A Try" was later released by Universal Music Japan.  3 videos were shot: "Wide Awake", "Eternal" and "Miles Away". After the release Dreamshade promoted the album in several European festivals all through 2011 including Finnish Metal Expo, Metalfest, Rock Hard Festival, Basinfirefest, Rock Harz and Kavarna Rock Fest.

During the summer of 2012 they recorded their 2nd album "The Gift Of Life" (which came out on January 25th, 2013). The production and recording of "The Gift Of Life" was done in the band's own studio while Jacob Hansen (Denmark) took care of the mixing and mastering. Videos were shot for the songs "Photographs" and "Consumed Future". The lead single "Photographs" was released in October 2012. A Japanese edition (with 2 live bonus tracks) will be released.

Current members:
Kevin Calì - Vocals 
Fernando "Fella" Di Cicco - Guitars, Vocals
Luca Magri - Guitars
Gian-Andrea Costa - Bass Guitar
 Serafino "Sera" Chiommino- Drums

Former members:
Rocco Ghielmini- Guitars
Rawirak "Rawi" Pellegrini - Keyboards
Ivan Moccia - Bass
Jerome- Drums


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dreamshade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.