There are two bands with this name: A Welsh post-hardcore band and an Arizonan piano rock band. 

1) Dream State are a Welsh post-hardcore band from South Wales. Formed in 2014, the group currently consists of guitarist Aled Evans. Former members include vocalist CJ Gilpin, guitarist Rhys Wilcox and drummer Jamie Lee. They signed to Australian record label UNFD in 2017, and have released two EPs, their debut Consequences in 2015 and Recovery in 2018, and a studio album Primrose Path. They released their first single "Burn Them Down" on 8 January 2015. Later that year, on 20 November, they released their first EP Consequences, which was recorded at The Boneyard Studio in South Wales. In March 2017 the band released their single "White Lies". That summer they had their first festival appearance at Reading and Leeds Festivals. It was later announced, that Dream State had signed to independent record label UNFD at the festival. 2017 also saw a change in line-up. Sam Harrison-Little left the band to spend more time with his family and was replaced by Rhys Wilcox. On 18 May 2018, the band's second EP Recovery was released through UNFD. Dream State is featured on the 2018 compilation album Songs That Saved My Life in aid of mental health and suicide prevention charities. For the compilation, the band recorded a cover of Linkin Park's "Crawling". On 6 March 2019, Dream State released the single "Hand in Hand". The band released their single "Primrose" on 10 July 2019. It is their first release after the departure of bassist Danny Rayer, who "has decided to focus his time on his wonderful family". On 20 August 2019, the band released their single "Open Windows" and also announced that their debut album Primrose Path, produced by Dan Weller, will be out on 18 October 2019. Dream State released their single "Twenty Letters" on 8 October 2019, a day after its premiere on Annie Mac's Radio 1's Future Sounds on BBC Radio 1. On 18 October 2019 the debut album Primrose Path was released and opened on position 100 in the official UK Albums Chart. Following the release, the band went on a UK headliner tour beginning on 27 October 2019 in Glasgow and went on to support Being as an Ocean on their tour through Europe afterwards.[19] In the beginning of 2020, Dream State supported I Prevail on their Europe tour. The final leg of the tour had to be postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Dream State released their music video for "Are You Ready To Live?" on 24 June 2020. The video features clips send in by fans as well as live footage of the band. They announced the departure of Jamie Lee in late 2020. CJ Gilpin and Rhys Wilcox left the band in February 2022.

2) Dream State is a piano rock band originally from Phoenix, Arizona. The band consists of Nick Garza (piano, guitar, vocals), Nikki L (guitar, vocals), Devin P (guitar), Mike P (bass) and Eric R (drums). They remained unsigned in the US, but have a record deal with Japanese label Fabtone Records that is limited to Japan. To date, they have released three full length albums, A Place To Rest My Head, Something To Believe In and Dream State. Their sound is a melodic mix of piano, pop, and rock. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dream+State">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.