There have been a few bands that have used this name.

Dark World (Ireland)
One of the most unique projects in the Dark World catalogue, Dream Quest began in 1998 with some of the top recording artists from Dark World combining forces to create the richly textured, multi-layered instrumentation of ‘Season One: The Passing of a Loved One’. Choosing to remain anonymous, the artists involved simply listed themselves as Navigators and recorded the entire electronic/dance-trance release in a few short weeks.

Fronted by Navigator X, Dream Quest’s ‘Season One’ quickly gained attention and tracks were featured in the 1998 MCTC video short “Marbel Universe presents: A Vision of NON in a World of Dreams”, as well as the Dark World compilation ‘Artist’s Row Vol. 1’. Work on a follow-up release titled ‘Season Two: Journey into the Festivals In-Between’ began almost immediately, but stalled as Dark World moved its base of operations to Europe.

When Dark World International gained international digital distribution through iTunes ‘Season One: The Passing of a Loved One’ was remastered along with three never before released remixes from the unfinished ‘Season Two: Journey into the Festivals In-Between’ and offered for sale. Internet interest in Dream Quest soared, and Dark World began to explore the possibility of a new release.
When Navigator X finally arranged a move to the EU, Dark World International President Kris Ameringer requested his artist to front a new album for Dream Quest. “I felt pressured”, according to Navigator X. “I’m not Johnny M. So I thought about what happened in Season One. I liked the concepts of Stygian Tars; writing songs that were soundtracks to life.”

Influenced by Dark World International’s renowned World of Herbs, Dream Quest recorded ‘Season Three: Herb Garden’ featuring fourteen brand new tracks mixing deep club grooves, world rhythms, and gently intertwining melodies. After an almost ten year break, Dream Quest’s sound has deepened and become more sophisticated, yet remains unique to Dream Quest. Working with Dark World International producer J.A.B. has greatly influenced Navigator X. “J.A.B. and I both like a Canadian project called Intermix and Bill Leeb’s other bands and projects, which get very industrial in sound. J.A.B. has these ideas of ‘NON’, and talks about ‘non-songs’ with ‘non-melodies’. I’m very influenced by these ideas. I chose to not step on the other dance artists and keep the tempos down for Herb Garden. The President wanted the release to be pleasant to listen to, not too chaotic. I hope I achieved that. Though ‘Rosemary’ comes off quite goth to me.”

Two full length tracks from ‘Season Three: Herb Garden’ are streamed for listening at Cyqo Music. The delightfully upbeat ‘Daisy’ and the deeper and darker ‘Valerian’ both demonstrate the effectiveness of Dream Quest’s musical style. Rich in sub tones and recorded with the clarity and strength of Dark World International’s masterful production, ‘Daisy’ and ‘Valerian’ are set to be instant fan favourites and high company sales are expected.

More information can be found @ http://www.darkworld.com/05page.html

Dream Quest (Canada)
Originally Founded in 2000 by Steve(Drums) and Mark Doerksen(Guitar) and Phil Janzen(Lead Vocals, Bass), Dream Quest is a Canadian self-called “adventure metal” band, mixing power metal, rock and punk elements. 

Read more @ DQ’s Web site: http://www.adventuremetal.com/

also are Italian electro-symphonic metal project Luca Turilli’s Dreamquest and French power metal band Dreamquest.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dream+Quest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.