Drew Howard is trail-blazing his own path to critical acclaim. Possessing head-spinning wordplay and a topical range more akin to the underground than the mainstream, the 17-year-old lyricist is proving that talent can still make waves in the rap game. With the focus on his debut Album 'Leap Year', Drew Howard, in the meantime plans on sharpening his lyrical ability and expanding his career by doing interviews, performances and releasing more music. 
Born in Scarborough, Ontario but raised in Ajax Ontario, Drew Howard grew up like the regular urban survivor. Drew Howard's major influences have gravitated towards the dazzling lyricism of Lupe Fiasco, Kid Cudi, Chiddy Bang, Kanye West, Lil' Wayne 
and Jay-Z. Shakqueel Burthwright, better known by his stage name Drew Howard is one of the hottest a Canadian recording artist emerging in the music industry today. 
Drew Howard is what the games been missing. With his lyricism-focused and high level of creativity for rhyming, thrilling punch-lines, clever metaphors, 
entertaining bars and stories from his life experiences, Drew Howard continues to create 'wonderful' music. He says he has fallen in love with music ever since the 
tender age of 9. 'Working on my first project has really birthed a passion for creating 'wonderful' music, which is much more than a priority for me'. I know my time is coming, I'm just hoping I'm around to enjoy the fruits of my labor. I'm what this games been missing.? Hip Hop fans will be following Drew Howard for a long time to come. Drew Howard is currently working on his critically acclaimed debut Album called `Leap Year` after he consinstantly released 3 mixtapes entitled 'Birth 
Right', 'Highschool & Detention', & Lostboydrew Vol.1 all before the age of 18. 
Early Life: Brought into this world by Peter Burthwright and Debbie Howard, Shakqueel Burthwright was born in Scarborough, Ontario on June 14, 1992. Drew Howard comes from an 'Unknown Side' of Shakqueel explained in his interview and Howard his mother maiden name. Drew Howard was exposed to so many different cultures as a youth. He was dubbed with a gift of gab as a child and began rapping at the age of 9. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drew+Howard">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.