1) Drexler is a melodic punk band from Melbourne, Australia.

2) Drexler is the schizophrenic pet project of the Portland based Producer, Brian Hall. The name Drexler does in fact originate from the 90′s basketball legend, Clyde Drexler. Enjoy. http://drexlerpdx.com/

3) Drexler, formed by Michael DeVellis, was founded in 2006 but was many years in the making. The band has brought together five heavy hitters to produce a groove all their own. 

To call Michael DeVellis a supremely talented saxophone player would capture only part of his musical prowess. He is a composer, producer, and multi-instrumentalist, who has been playing professionally for over 10 years. Michael has played with several bands and deejays at renowned venues across the U.S. and Europe, including the Jones Beach Theater and Central Park Summer Stage in New York, the PNC Arts Center in New Jersey, the Sunset parties in San Francisco, the legendary Montuno Vibes parties in Belgium, and the OM Records party at the Winter Music Conference in Miami. Michael's saxophone can be heard on several record labels, including SVEK, Siesta, Maya, Big Chief, Credence, and Renaissance. 

After graduating from Tufts University in 1998, Michael came home to New York and started gigging in the New York City jam band scene. He sat in with acts such as Lettuce, The Derek Trucks Band, Susan Tedeschi, Leo Nocentelli, Melvin Sparks, Oteil Burbridge (bass, Peacemakers, Allman Brothers), The Jason Crosby Band, Rainbow Trout, and many others. Michael became a part of Soleo where he met guitarist Joe Keith. Michael and Joe went on to work in many projects together through the years. Their playing styles meshed seamlessly and their chemistry as musicians and friends was apparent. 

In 2001 Michael took a teaching job as head band director at James Maidson High School and in his first year, he had a drumming phenomenon, Danny Rodriguez Jr. as one of his students. Danny graduated from Madison and continued on his already flourishing professional career. Each year Danny competed in the Guitar Center national drumoff competition, advancing very far each successive year. In 2006, with much perseverence, Danny took the championship and is now Guitar Center's National drumoff champion. The following is an excerpt from the press release: 

LOS ANGELES (January 11, 2007) - In front of today's most influential drummers and a packed house at Hollywood's Music Box @ Fonda Theatre, the nation's top four undiscovered drummers battled it out for glory at Guitar Center's Drum Off 2006 Grand Finals. Though all four showed their prowess, it was 22-year-old Daniel Rodriguez who proved he had the unmatched passion and technique to be hailed as the nation's finest undiscovered drummer. As if the title of Drum Off champion wasn't enough, Rodriguez shared the stage with powerhouse musicians including +44, Stephen Perkins, The Matches, and Street Drum Corps. Go to www.guitarcenter.com/drumoff to check out Danny's winning solo. 

Rodriguez has then gone on to perform with such acts as Justin Timberlake and Prince. Rodriguez and DeVellis had always remained close after Danny's graduation and played together on several occasions in church where Michael was introduced to the amazing talent of Danny Sr. and Javi Siluani. After the competition, all of the pieces had fallen into place and the formation of Drexler was complete. The band is now playing all around New York city and the crowd response has been nothing short of amazing. This group is quickly on the rise!! 



Drexler Discography: 
Drexler LP 2008 
Mike DeVellis, Alto Sax 
Joe Kieth, Guitar 
Danny Rodriguez Sr., Bass 
Danny Rodriguez Jr., Drums 
Javie Silvany, Keys, Piano 
Randy Montalvo, Percussion <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Drexler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.