Drinking Skull was formed in Zagreb, in 1987.  The first demo material entitled "Sentinel Of Noise" and "Apocalypse! War " were recorded in 1989,  the following year, followed  publication of the first album," Our Faith, Our Life ... Our Death. " This furious thrash metal album was received well  and rise to the top of Croatian metal scene was then the only easy step routine. 
In the meantime, Drinking Skull was promoted on national television with video for song  "Retaliation From The Underground ', this event also helped the organization  of many live performances, not only in Croatia but also abroad. 

Two years after the release of debut, creative constantly active, Drinking Skull  released  his second album, entitled "Amalgamation". Gaining status as one of the best Croatian metal bands was eligible for a reward of effort, but it did not diminish their need for further progress. 

Peak of popularity was reached with third studio album, "People That Make You Feel Small" published in1993. After the release of their third album, followed by a longer pause, to early 1997. appeared retrospective album "The End Of Decade" which was meant only completing a very productive period, but the beginning of a new phase of band activity. The album is made up of many previously unreleased songs, remixes and additional original version.

New priod in the history of the band marked a milestone in progressive music style. Album "Evil Or Divine" is proof of how representative is refreshing in the work of the band brought the changes based on experience and constant drive to achive higher goals. "Evil Or Divine" is, for the time, a very unique mix of different styles of metal based on the essential darker atmosphere than the one presented in the previous albums. It was also the most mature work published from the moment of  entire band that quality is not based only on the creative-ideological, but also production-technical basis, making it musical phenomenon is another very important parameter in the band's career. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drinking+Skull">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.