The real story of Dripping, begins in 1999, with the birth of Cadaverment. Cadaverment was formed in August 1999 by guitarist Sebastian Russo and drummer Bruce Moallem. The intent was to create original death metal, at a time when NJ’s underground scene was near stagnant. We were influenced by everything from Suffocation, Pyrexia, to early Carcass, Crypstopsy and Terrorizer. In November, we completed the line up and enlisted long time friends, bassist Tom Kieffer, and vocalist Joe Lorincz. With a steady lineup and rigorous practice schedule, Cadaverment played a few local shows and gained a small, but loyal following with the help of friends like Gutter (Gutterchrist Productions), Joe Hate, Eddie Williams RIP (Snag) and Roy Fox (Necroharmonic Productions). We then scraped together whatever little money we had, and hit up Pigeon Club Studios in Hoboken, NJ.

We recorded the demo “Bring the Suffering.” Limited in copies, we passed it out mainly to friends and family. We kept up with a dedicated practice schedule, and played shows whenever we could. In the months to come we started to progress as musicians and our musical influences started to expand. We were listening to Ripping Corpse, Demilich, Human Remains, Candiria, and Cynic. With some new musical inspirations Cadaverment entered the Pigeon Club again to record our 2nd EP "Shadows of Eternal Sickness." This would be our final recording as Cadaverment. This EP is where the concept of Dripping began to form. We all had different ideas of what we wanted to do with the music, and it got to a point where you couldn’t call it Cadaverment anymore. The one thing we didn’t want to do was, to keep Cadaverment going if it was going to change. Everyone expects a band to progress a little with each recording, but we wanted to do things beyond what Cadaverment was. Enter 2001, Dripping was born. Guitarist Sebastian Russo, drummer Bruce Moallem and bassist Tom Kieffer had a goal to create brutal music without any musical barriers. 2 weeks later we had 2 new songs and we enlisted friend Jerry Sammarco to handle rhythm guitar duties. However, we still didn’t have a vocalist. When we ended Cadaverment and started Dripping we wanted to go in a totally different direction musically and vocally. Cadaverment vocalist Joe Lorincz has some of the best death metal/tough guy vocals around, but for Dripping we wanted to go guttural. So after trying a few people out, and finding no one good enough, we decided to record the vocals ourselves. Dripping entered the studio to record a 2 song promo in which Bruce, Jerry, and Sebastian shared the vocal duties; with Bruce on gutturals, Jerry on the high shrieks and Sebastian on backups.

Even though we began Dripping with the goal of creating music without barriers, we still didn’t really understand yet how far we could push the music and how experimental we could go. In January 2002 we were once again a 3 piece and had lost Jerry on rhythm. We wanted to start playing shows and Bruce could only handle the gutturals in the studio. Seb asked his good friend Frank Bleakley, ex-Carrion/Unhallowed/Comatose Rust, to come try out for the open vocal position. With a great stage presence and vocals, Frank became Dripping’s 4th member and frontman. We played some good shows out together and have some great memories from that time. Sadly things didn’t work out and we soon found a new vocalist Gabe Abatangelo, and rythym guitarist Mike Connors . This lineup played one show together with Japanese act Vomit Remnants in Clifton NJ. The day after the show, we decided to record a 2 song experimental demo with Gabe on Vocals. It was done in a friend’s basement on very limited equipment. We were still going through some growing pains with finding our style and this raw demo shows that. We limited it to 100 copies. Dripping then signed a deal with Macabre Mementos (Japan) to drop a full length in the fall.

During the next month or two we were trying to finish up some songs for the debut album but we were struggling with what we wanted to do musically on the album. Everyone was going in different directions and we just didn’t know how we wanted the album to sound. We finally came to a collective decision to record the album as a 3 piece with the original lineup. We didn't want any barriers and wanted to bring all our influences into the music no matter what they were. Sebastian would handle all guitars and backing vocals, Tom on bass and backing vocals, Bruce on drums, guttural vocals, spoken words, and lyrics, and our good friend Mario Comesanas from December would guest appear, and do all the high shriek vocals. We wrote the album within 2 weeks and hit the studio . We didn’t take much time to review anything. Whatever we did in those 2 weeks was what we would record. We never practiced any vocals, and Mario put his vox down on the spot in one take. Actually, the first time we ever heard Mario on our songs was while he was recording. In the studio we all came to the decision that this would be our last effort we would do together.

We wanted to record something that didn’t follow any rules. Something that expressed everything we were into, whether it be hiphop, jazz, death metal, classical, trance, pop, whatever. We did it without any fear of who would like it or not. We didn't care if the label or fans hated it. We wanted to flip their idea of what they thought death metal was supposed to be.After the recording Dripping soon disbanded. We released some rare recordings and different versions of songs, but we have never played together as a band since the recording of the Disintegration album.Thanks to all the fans and friends that have supported us throughout the years. Thanks to Mario Comesanas. We never imagined his vocals would make such an impact on the album. He was an integral part to the magic on those tracks and can never be reproduced.

Mario Comesanas RIP....Dripping RIP <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dripping">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.