After leaving Paradigm Shift in late 2008, Jeremy Wainscott (drums, keyboards) and Pat Brown (bass) tried out numerous projects, both together and separate. However, everything changed in 2009 when Pat met guitarist Dan Cearley. They decided to get together and see what they could do, and Pat called Jeremy and got him involved. After an hour, it was apparent that there was definite potential between the trio and all they needed was a front-man. Originally, Jeremy's friend Chris Callahan was called, and performed their first show at Battle of the Bands 2010, to place 3rd out of 7 under the name Altyaire. However, it was obvious that a new vocalist needed to be found with a larger musical background.

Shortly thereafter, Dan brought forth Mike Brewer, former vocalist of Kentucky metal heavyweight Back Water Burial. With Mike, the overall sound got much heavier and much more technical, so a name change was deemed appropriate. After much thought Drogba was born, chosen to describe the chaotic, sludge-like, and multi-faceted sound that the band had evolved to. Some descriptions that have been used by people outside the band have been "A clever mix of Cannibal Corpse and Tool" and "System of a Down meets Mastodon.” Due to scheduling conflicts, however, Mike departed from the band in late 2010 and Jeremy brought in current vocalist Andrew Welp, who share much musical history. Andrew's highs bring a much needed contrast to the mix, and allow the band to further their technicality.

To date, Drogba has released one record, "A New Generation of Atrocity" EP, which was recorded at Russian Recording in Bloomington. All four member of the band have a single-minded focus towards furthering its success, work constantly to book new shows, consult each other daily on administrative matters, and work tirelessly to improve the existing songs as well as composing new material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drogba">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.