DROWNED IN TORMENT is a death/thrash band from Ede/Wageningen, The Netherlands which was active during 2005-2007 and its most recent line-up consisted of Alex van Harn (bass), Cees "Wolv" Heijdel (vocals), Ali Hamza (guitars, vocals), Benito "Bono" Grotenbreg (guitars) and Royy "The Reaper" Vermeulen (drums).

The band was found in January 2005 by Alex van Harn. The first band members were recruited quickly with Ali Hamza on the lead guitar and Andreas Jongeneel on drums. In Marco Kersholt they found their singer. The intention was to make, as all started, old school death metal. April 26, 2005 was the first session as a whole band.

After a couple of months Drowned In Torment's style developed more and more into a thrash band, influenced by pioneers as Kreator and Sodom. Marco's vocals, however, did not meet the band's expectations and thus Marco parted ways with the band in a friendly matter.  In the search for a new front man Wolv was welcomed to the Drowned In Torment family. This was the next step in the development of Drowned In Torment.

After two live try-outs the band had their actual first show on the 29th of April, 2006 in "De Dikke Draak" in Wageningen (NL) together with WARCHITECT and SOULREAVER. At this gig they received a good response from the audience. Their next goal was to record their first demo - all this happened in August 2006, within two days. Recorded and produced by Frank Ruisch of Warchitect, the demo is entitled "Torture Till Death".

LINE UP on this record:
Cees Heijdel - lead vocals
Ali Hamza - guitars/backing vocals
Alex van Harn - bass
Andreas Jongeneel - drums

Secondly, after recording the demo there were two line-up changes: a second guitar player joined, Benito "Bono" Grotenbreg, known for bands as CREMATION and SOULREAVER. With that extra touch of noise Drowned In Torment was able to produce a wall of sound. Moreover, due to Andreas' occupation with his other band NYMPHEA AURORA and side projects the band democratically decided to look for a new drummer and, once again, parted in a friendly way. Royy Vermeulen of AUTUMNAL REAPER/GRAVEN IMAGE, formerly PLEURISY, joined the band a few months later to form a stable line-up. 

The band split-up on Friday the 13th, July 2007 when Ali departed. The remaining members have decided to continue as a band, with a new name and a new style, more towards old school death metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drowned+in+torment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.