There is more than one band called Drown.


1.  Drown is a funeral doom metal band from the United States, created by Ukranian-born but Portland-based Markov Soroka of Tchornobog and Aureole. Drown was previously known as Slow



2. Drown was an industrial metal band from Los Angeles, California.
Formed in 1987 by vocalist Lauren Boquette under the name Yesterday's Tear, Drown became one of the top drawing bands in the early 90's Los Angeles underground music scene.The line up was rounded out by Joseph Bishara (guitars/keyboards), Rob Nicholson (bass) and Todd Allen (drums) The music was the extreme opposite of the well known "sunset strip" scene going on in LA at the time. The band signed to Elektra Records in 93' and 94' saw the release of the debut album Hold On To The Hollow, featuring the singles Transparent and What It Is To Burn. Todd Allen was then replaced by drummer Marco Forcone and the band hit the road. After Drown completed tours of the U.S. and Canada with White Zombie, Prong, Clutch, For Love Not Lisa and others, the band was dropped by Elektra due to a major corporate merger and then disappeared back into the studio. In 1995 Lauren performed guest vocals on the debut album from industrial all-star project Argyle Park (featuring musicians from Circle of Dust, Prong and Foetus (among others including Marco Forcone).

1996 Drown re-emerged with a new line up, consisting of vocalist Lauren Boquette, drummer Marco Forcone, guitarist Patrick Sprawl and bassist Sean E. Demott. The band signed to Geffen Records and recorded their second album Product of a Two Faced World. After a year being on the label, the band was released from their contract, Geffen citing the band was "too heavy" for the labels new intrest in pop music.

1998 finally saw the release of "Product of a Two Faced World" only now on Slipdisc/Mercury Records. Drown hit the road again. That year saw tours with Static X, The Clay People, Clutch, Spineshank and more. With a new label backing the band, Drown then released the Kerosene EP which featured guest vocals by Jared from (Hed) Planet Earth, Ty from Videodrone and Corporate Avenger. Due to endless label struggles vocalist Lauren ended the band in 1999 and began work on the side project "Famous" for The Tattoo The Earth Tour (summer 2000). In 2001 Lauren launched 1605 Records and started his current project Six.

In 2011 the band released an archive collection of demos entitled Throwing Away the Demos on Lauren's 1605 Records label.

3. A metallic hardcore band from Houston, Texas. Signed to Harm Reduction Records

4. Drown were a Hardcore band from Newscastle, Australia - http://drownhc.tumblr.com/

5. Drown is a France-based experimental/industrial/dub/electronic musician with releases from 2019-2020.
https://drown1.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drown">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.