There are three bands with this name:

1) Drowned is a old school Death Metal band from Germany, active since the early 90's. Some members also play in Necros Christos.

2) Drowned was the former name for the alternative rock band InMe before their label success.

3) Brazilian Death Thrash band.
The band first appeared in 1994, however it had to stop its activities due to some problems in the line-up. The group returned in 1998 with Fernando Lima (vocals), Thiago Rodrigues (guitars), Marcos Amorim (guitars), Rodrigo Nunes (bass) and Beto Loureiro (drums). Then the band started the process of composing for its first demo. In December 1998, the band recorded "Where dark and light divide... ", its first demo, with three songs: Learn to obey, Words from the pit and Where dark and light divide... This first work, released in 1999, was widely promoted in Brazil and other countries. It deserved good specialized reviews and support of the public. The band also took part in some Brazilian Compilation-CDs. In March 2000, Thiago Rodrigues left the group, and in his place came Rafael Porto. The band followed its work, writing new songs, promoting its sound, making more concerts and looking for a Label to release its debut CD. By mid-March, 2001, the band signed with Cogumelo Records to record its first CD, whose title is "BONEGRINDER". It was recorded during the months of April and May 2001, and the Label released it in mid-August 2001. BONEGRINDER was a landmark in the band’s career, which soon started its first Brazilian tour. However, the tour was interrupted abruptly, due to a serious car accident suffered by guitarist Marcos Amorim. Several dates were canceled until the band came back slowly to its activities, since the musician was in good recovering. Only in the beginning of 2002 the tour could be fully retaken, then being possible the passage of Drowned for the South, Southeast, North and Northeast of Brazil. To celebrate Marcos Amorim's return, the band decided, with the Label, to release a new work. The mini-album, called BACK FROM HELL, makes use of demo recordings, covers, new versions of old stuff, besides unpublished material and brand new songs. This EP came to give sequence to the work set forth by its previous CD, and to solidify even more the name of the band in the Brazilian scene. A new and small tour began in August 2002, beginning in their hometown, Belo Horizonte/MG, and going again through several areas of the country, with an excellent receptivity. Meanwhile, the band continued preparing material for their next complete studio album. In the end of February 2003, the band entered DR Studio, owned by the band, and began the recordings of its third work, BUTCHERY AGE. 12 tracks were recorded, with a very superior production compared to everything the band tried before. More aggressive, faster and more disturbing, the album shows a Drowned still more varied, even inside of the style they created. The great growth that the band obtained with their previous CDs allowed it to add forces for this work. Drowned is one of the first bands in Brazil, without the backing of a multinational recording company, to get several endorsers and also to have a concert schedule controlled and programmed. BUTCHERY AGE was released in the end of June 2003 and a great tour began in July 26 of the same year, including 27 dates for the whole Brazil. However the band suffered the first line-up loss since its first album: Rafael Porto leaves the band in July 2004 and in his place entered Kerley Ribeiro. Composing since the beginning of Butchery Age tour, Drowned had written all the material for the next work before the new guitarist's entrance. In August of 2004 the band enters again in studio and started the recordings of BY THE GRACE OF EVIL, its third complete work, fourth at all discography, including the new guitarist's participation. The album has 10 tracks and received treatment still more careful than the previous ones, including a booklet art worked leaf by leaf. BY THE GRACE OF EVIL, released in December 2004, shows a Drowned with the same roots, however more varied and more musical. Strong and melodic characteristics of the band since its formation are present, but the band grew in terms of composition of music. The tour of the new work will go by several areas of Brazil and for the first time the band will count with scenery personalized with artwork of the CD. The band intends to expand its name more and more around the country and to reach overseas, with label or distribution contract. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Drowned">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.