Druantia is a folk metal band from The Netherlands They were founded at the end of 2010 by Lotte, who plays guitar and flute, and also takes care of some backing vocals. Several people were attracted to complete the line-up, including Nick, the current guitar player. After a lot of quick lineup changes, Druantia finally found a drummer and a bass player, Mitchell and Hans. Not soon after that Rik joined the band as a vocalist. The name of the band, Druantia, is derived from an ancient pagan goddess. She is the queen of the Druids, and mostly associated with trees. She rules fertility, protection, trees, knowledge and creativity.

The music of Druantia is easily described as Folk metal. The flute plays a major part in the music, which provides an authentic element in the harsh, epic metal sounds. With lyrical themes like pagan history, war, and the good ol’ drinking songs, Druantia storms the stages with pounding riffs, brutal vocals, blasting drums and authentic flute melodies. 

Druantia is also a Symphonic Metal band from Barcelona. It was born in late 2006 by the hands of guitarplayer: Xavi, lead female singer: Silvia, and the first drummer of the band: Jordi. In late 2008 lead guitarplayer Marc, keyboardist Alex and bassist Roger joins the band completing the formation. During 2011 Jordi and Roger left the band and David joins as the new drummer as well as Alan as the new bassist. In 2012 Ruiz takes the role as the new drummer of Druantia.

Druantia’s music style can be defined as a mix between Symphonic, Epic, Gothic and Power Metal, with elaborated and varied original compositions, from the hardest metal to the warmest instrumental ballads.

Despite being a relatively new band, only in the 2010 season (their first season!) they played in very important clubs as Mephisto, Razmatazz3, Razmatazz2, Crossroads, Faktoria d’Arts… They have participated at important festivals, including the Terrassa Main Festival playing on the stage of “JTTP” with SuTaGar, III Metal Femmes Barcelona, I Valles Dark Fest, III Fira de la Música de Cardedeu, and the international band contest: Emergenza Festival, becoming semi-finalists. They have also shared stage with bands such as Su Ta Gar, Embellish, Opera Magna, Liquid Graveyard, L’Endeví, etc …

Now Druantia is finishing the recording of their first album and preparing for new live shows. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Druantia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.