Not only is Reach For The Surface the title of Dryline's Zero-Sum Records debut it's also a powerful statement of intent for the band themselves. Recorded by fast-rising producer D. Braxton Henry (A Dozen Furies, Jacknife), the album is an explosive, pile driving display of contemporary heavy music and something the Texas quintet are more than ready to unleash upon us all.

Since forming in 1999 and becoming established in the local Dallas/Fort Worth area shortly thereafter Dryline has always aspired to achieve as much as possible. That motivation has driven them to waste little time in performing regionally throughout Texas as well as in places such as Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana. It's also led them to branch out further into faraway places like Nebraska, Missouri and Kansas in between landing notable opening slots for national acts that have included Misery Signals, It dies Today, Killswitch Engage and Hopesfall. Starting out as simply just five high school buddies bored in the sticks away from the big city, Dryline quickly became a determined, hardworking group of musicians with a keen sense of networking skills and a “get in the van" mentality. Roadblocks, like keeping a solid line-up together or settling on a specific sound and vision, never once entered the picture while getting where they are today.

Now with the arrival of Reach For The Surface yet another benchmark has been set. The twelve-track, thirty-six minute disc is made up of some of the most realized material Dryline has penned as emerging songwriters. Both seething blaze and melodic shimmer play an equal part in the fivesome's dynamically potent approach to modern Metal's light-and-shade essence. From swarming, weight-soaked riff surges to sweeps of harmonic twin-guitar flourish the intensity comes complete with spiraling arrangements, jackhammer rhythms and vocals that - among other things – can speak/sing with a shouted sense of urgency as much as they can drop down into a bowel-churning bellow.

Armed with yet another accomplishment to their credit Dryline is set to seize an entirely new level of opportunity. This is certainly one band that has breakthrough success well within their grasp.


Dryline Is:

Aaron Kirby - vocals
Greg Scott - guitar
Joe Gill - guitar/vocals
Daniel Hogeland - bass
Richard Musser - drums

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dryline">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.