The name can relate to four groups:

1. DSM (Devastating Street Music) a UK based group who produced club dance tunes in the mid-1980's and had two very memorable, but mainly underground club tunes of "Destiny" (Elite records 1986) and "Warrior Groove"  (Elite records 1986)


2. DSM (Dark Shift Movements) was originally just a group of MC's from LE10 and they used to only MC on videos and on the streets. This group then started to use recording equipment (which was very basic) to record their own material. After developing a small following from people in the LE10 area they started using MySpace to show off their work to a lot more people. After all these changes, the name Dark Shift Movements (DSM) became official. They then decided too make a Mix CD of all there recent and even some new tracks which they would distrubute for £1. These CD's sold better than any of us thought and although it was only a pound they then had enough money to buy better recording equipment. They then went onto achieve fairly good things as they got Radio plays, Live peformances and a bigger following which spread through out Leicestershire. After a few MC's and vocalists left, new MC's needed to be recruited. These MC's are what DSM is made up of today..

Acer, Ecks, Flawless, Genzee, Kid Kaos & Snidee

From all over the Midlands, they have come together to peform many sets and make tracks which now has made them known even further out across the UK. Tracks such as Skets, How We Roll, Gunfingers, Don't Know About Me and many more have made such a big impact on the scene. From all of this DSM have released a 2nd mixtape which sold a lot and still is selling well. The outcome of this mixtape, however was much better as they attracted a record company (Breakin Da Mould) into signing them. 

3. A Grindviolence band from Oconomowoc/Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

4. A dark ambient project from Iran.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DSM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.