Dua Lipa (born August 22, 1995) is an English singer-songwriter. She was born in London of refugee parents from Kosovo, where she grew up part of her life, but saw everything change when as a child she moved back to her parents' homeland. While still in her teens, she returned to the British capital alone, inspired by her singer father to pursue an artistic life.

Dua Lipa began to write her name in the music industry. Lipa gained attention from the specialized media as an artist after the release of her debut album in 2017,  "Dua Lipa" (self-titled). It won the third position on the UK Albums Chart and featured eight singles. "New Rules"  and "IDGAF" have become global hits, reaching the number 1 position in countries such as Australia, Belgium, Ireland, and the United Kingdom, as well as reaching the top ten positions in more than 30 countries, including the USA for "New Rules" . The album featured the hits "One Kiss" with Calvin Harris, "Be The One", "Scared To Be Lonely" with Martin Garrix, "No Lie" with Sean Paul and many others.  It later received 5 nominations at the BRITs Awards, the most important British awards ceremony in music. She also won with her debut album two Grammys, "Best Dance Recording" for her song "Electricity" with Silk City, and moreover the "Best New Artist" award.

But Lipa's great success would even come in her second album "Future Nostalgia", which made the promising young woman a true pillar of world pop music. Having hits such as "Don't Start Now", "Break My Heart" and "Levitating" , the album is currently the most played album of the 2020's decade on Spotify and secured a Grammy at the 2021 ceremony for "Best Pop Vocal Album" and was present among the nominations for "Album of the Year". "Don't Start Now" became her most streamed hit on Spotify, nominated for "Record of the Year" at the Grammys. It was the biggest female song of the year 2020.

The British phenomenon has captured an all-time record on the Billboard Hot 100, all thanks to the success of "Levitating". The track became the longest-charting female song on the chart, with 77 weeks, being the 4th song overall to reach this astonishing feat. The same track became the biggest hit of 2021 in the United States and globally without ever reaching #1, proving once and for all that the disputed #1 position on the Billboard Hot 100, that she still doesn't have reached, doesn't define the success of an artist. For Lipa, it seems that longevity is more important than an instant success.

Her newest hit with  Elton John and  PNAU, "Cold Heart" is on par to become one of the biggest hits of 2022. She's currently having a sold-out global arena tour with "The Future Nostalgia Tour", marking her as a definitive icon for the 2020's decade, especially in the European continent, her main music market. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dua+Lipa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.