Dublin Death Patrol is the collaboration of Testament vocalist Chuck Billy teaming up with fellow Dublin California ragers Willy Lange (Rampage, Laaz Rockit), Steve 'Zetro' Souza (Former Testament/Exodus vocalist), his two brothers Andy and Eddy as well as some other local Dublin boys.
 The seeds were planted in or about 1980 with a bay area thrash band called Rampage featuring neighborhood kids from Dublin California, Chuck Billy with his brother Andy Billy, Greg Bustamante, Ernie Boehm and Willie Lange. The guys were about 18 years old and had all known each other since they were about 5. The guys grew up listening to a variety of bands from Led Zeppelin, Kiss, Aerosmith to the Dead Kennedys and the Sex Pistols; and were influenced by the sounds of the late 70’s and early 80’s.
In the summer of 2005 Lääz Rockit got the offer to play a reunion gig in Holland at the Dynamo Open Air, a festival where most of them had played before. When Lange heard Testament were on the bill it was a no brainier so Lääz Rockit dusted off the old gear and headed over the pond. Lange was blown away how many young kids were clamoring for “Old school Metal” Lange states, “I was talking with Chuck over there about the possibility of getting our old crew together and play some killer tunes we had wrote but never recorded some 20 years ago.” The new version of the Dublin Death Patrol was born then and there.
They got together and started by playing some cover songs and a few old originals. The songs sounded so good, they decided to write some new songs. The songs came together pretty quick and sounded even better than they thought. At that point they made the decision to record and release the record, called "DDP 4 Life".

Dublin Death Patrol is:

Chuck Billy - Lead Vocals
Steve Souza - Lead Vocals
John Hartsinck - Lead Guitar
Steve Robello - Lead/ Rhythm Guitar
Andy Billy - Rhythm/lead guitar
Greg Bustamante - Rhythm Guitar
Willy Lange - Bass
John Souza - Bass
Eddie Billy - Bass
Danny Cunningham - Drums
Troy Luccketta - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dublin+Death+Patrol">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.