Duck Sauce is an American-Canadian DJ duo consisting of A-Trak and Armand van Helden.

The duo are signed to Fool's Gold Records.

The pair aim to produce disco house tracks that will appeal to club DJs.
 
Their first tracks are "aNYway" and "You're Nasty". Their EP, Greatest Hits, was released September 2009. The track "aNYway" capitalises "NY" to signify the band's origins in New York. The song is sampled from "I Can Do It" by Final Edition.
 
In the summer of 2010, Duck Sauce released a track called "Barbra Streisand", named after the singer of the same name. The track heavily samples the 1979 song "Gotta Go Home" by Boney M, which itself is based upon the original tune "Hallo Bimmelbahn" by the German band Nighttrain. "Barbra Streisand" was first played at Miami Winter Music Conference 2010, and gained heavy DJ and radio support in the UK and Ireland, Germany, Norway, Austria, Poland, France, Finland, Romania, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Sri Lanka. 
In Australia, "Barbra Streisand" was first heard on the radio station Triple J while in New Zealand it made its debut on Auckland student radio station 95bFM. The song has since also moved to various commercial radio stations and has increased in popularity. In the UK it peaked at number 3. and it reached Number 1 on the Australian ARIA Club Chart as of 12 September 2010. For Billboard magazine week ending December 18, 2010, the song reached the #1 position on the Dance/Club Play Songs chart. On April 26, 2011, the song was featured in Glee's 18th episode in their second season entitled "Born This Way". The song is also featured in the Vitamin Water Revive commercial. The Duck Sauce music video for Barbra Streisand currently has over 59,650,220 views on YouTube as of Sunday, July 10, 2011.

"aNYway" - 2010
"Barbra Streisand" - 2010
"Big Bad Wolf" - 2011

http://www.myspace.com/ducksaucenyc



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Duck+Sauce">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.