Dum Dum Bullet started playing as a band in 1979, in Le Mans, a city in the West of France. Two members, Jimi (bass, vocals) and Paulo (drums) from a former rock band called Bloody Mary, which had released 2 singles (“No one is real” and “Killer Boogie”), asked a third player Jean-Luc (guitar) to form a new band. Their aim was to form a “hard punk” band, and indeed they had always been attracting a very punk rock audience up to the end. Originally, the band was made up of a guitarist, Jean-Luc Davy, a bass guitarist, Jimmy Heudes and Paulo who played the drums. Dum Dum was born. They made a series of concerts in the region around Le Mans, and they progressively gained some measure of notoriety elsewhere. They recorded their first demo in 1981 in their local studio located in the village where they lived. They released their first bravura songs such as “qui t’as permis d’aimer” (Who allowed you to love?), “no prisoner”, “hot thigs”, “wicked typist”, “rock and roll is here to stay” and a powerful song called “pense à nous quand tu mets ton doigt” (“think about us when you use your finger”), whose first version was dedicated to a girlfriend in jail. A few hard core fans started following them, some of whom became very famous. In 1983, their first single was released “emmène moi en enfer” (“take me to hell”), then “rock revolution”, self-produced and recorded at Studio 1 in Paris. The single was in French and recorded in one day. Though the record is now collector’s edition, they thought it didn’t come up to their expectations and did not reflect the energy that the trio was able to produce. After some hesitation, the band decided to harden their music. Meanwhile, an LP was recorded at Vulcain studio, half in French and half in English, including titles such as the second version of “pense à nous quand tu mets ton doigt”, “blood sucker”, “rottenboy”, “qui t’a permis d’aimer”, condamné à vivre” (“doomed to live”) and the awesome “wolf in town”, which has been recently circulating on the internet. They participated in a live compilation album “Sully rock festival”, on which they played a live version of “get down”. Another studio version of the title would be recorded, along with the title “bursting brain” but the date and the place of production are unknown. 1984 was a very important year for Dum Dum Bullet. The drummer decided to leave the band and was replaced by Ariski Lucas, who had been following them for a quite a while. As a result, their music changed and became less punk, while developping a type of energy very similar to Motorhead. They composed new songs, all in English this time, with Ariski’s double bass drums prevailing. They were still three, with Jimmy as the lead singer. In 1985, a new recording was made at La Flèche, a city in the West of France, which included such blistering songs as “where are the virgins”, “Dum Dum Bullet”, let you down”, “have a good swing tonight”, “she’s a bitch”, and a bonus song “hey mum who’s the junk?”, which is a must. A video clip of the song “Hey, Mum who’s the junk?” was made for television, which can also be seen on the Web today. A new singer, Francois Sorin from the band Calliper Square, joined Dum Dum, bringing his very rock’n roll presence on stage. They appeared in several festivals in France and drew the attention of several producers. On stage, they were very straightforward and quite violent, and stood in stark contrast to the musical scene of that time. Demos were sent to various music labels. After getting many positive responses, they eventually signed with Sidney prod/Musidisc. They ended up working in studio with Laurent Thibault, who came from the mythical Chateau d’Hérouville studio where artists like Bowie, Iggy Pop, Queen, Higelin, T.Rex, Grateful Dead, Magma, Rainbow, Pink Floyd, Hallyday had performed. It took them 24 days to complete the album, which was released in November 1986. The record was quite short but nasty, and Dum Dum Bullet became very famous all over France and abroad. The band was notorious not only for their punchy and physical presence on stage, with a powerful sound and the bassist using a sound system as amplifier, but also for all the mischiefs backstage, which included the use of any kind of substances by some of the members and the people around them. Unfortunately, the band did not survive and the adventure ended in 1987. The guitarist and the drummer would try to form the band again with Laurent Montéro (bass), Francis Petit (vocals), but it failed. Dum Dum was one of the most outstanding bands in the 1980s, with their vital energy, their Anglo- Saxon life-on-the-fast-lane and fuck-them-all attitude…”Rock and Roll is here to stay”. What do they do now? Jean-Luc “John Tyzz” Davy has continued playing in various groups, and formed Medecin’e in 1995, one of the most rock and roll bands at the moment. They have released four albums so far, and a new one is planned for 2009. Strongly advised. Pascal Agnetti, a former member of Excess, another hard rock band of the 80s, is the bass guitarist. Ariski Lucas still plays music too. He has been playing the drums in the excellent band Caline Georgette from Angers, a city in the West of France. He also does studio sessions and concerts, but he’s now working in his own studio in Le Mans. Francois Sorin was there at the beginning of Medecin’e. He contributed to the recording of the album “Pepelatete” in 1996, and toured with the band. He left in 1998. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dum+Dum+Bullet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.