Bio:
DUMME JUNGS – Too loud! Too wild!! Too stupid!!!
“Losing it at night – black and blue in the morning” –that’s the mission statement of Berlin
techno duo DUMME JUNGS aka David Bwooi and Senior Carlos.
Having made a name for themselves in the scene by organizing illegal raves in the weirdest,
most wasted locations such as furniture store
basements or old car repair shops, DUMME JUNGS
have turned their attention to making music themselves. And they want it loud! Rough! In yer
face! Typical DUMME JUNGS, the stupid kids at the back of the class,
the ones your mother didn’t want you going anywhere near.

But as is so often the case,
if the grown-ups think it’s bad for you – your mates are going to love
it that much more. So it’s no surprise that DUMME JUNGS have made so many new friends so
quickly. Collaborations with and remixes for the likes of Steve Aoki, LMFAO & Lil’ Jon, Jan
Delay, Die Atzen, Kool Savas, Zpyz, Gtronic and Sick Boy came thick and fast. Alongside the
official remixes, the DUMME JUNGS have also been busy banging out bootlegs of songs like
Ke$has ‘TikTok’, Chromeos ‘Night by Night’
and the theme tune to the 1980s cult series ‘Saber Rider’.

This summer, the DUMME JUNGS released their debut single, EPIC, on the globally renowned
techno label ‘OH MY GOD IT’S TECHNO MUSIC’ which did their reputation no harm at all. Not just clubgoers en masse, but top DJs such as Larry T, F.O.O.L., Stereoheroes, Modek, Aerotronic, Dirty Disco Youth and Shaved Monkey have all embraced their EPIC sound. Since then, DUMME JUNGS have become the first artists to sign up to TECHNO CHANGED MY LIFE for future projects. Their first EP is scheduled for late 2010.

But DUMME JUNGS are more than just masters of the studio, they also rock the stage. Their live shows leave other DJ sets looking more like the chill-out zone. They played to over 5000 happy ravers at the Kassel Disco Festival; gigs across Germany, Austria, Belgium and Poland followed. Extrovert to the extreme, every DUMME JUNGS performance whips the audience into a frenzy. We’re not just talking two turntables and a mixer either. Welcome to the arena of headbanging,
pogoing and bruises aplenty. You’ll feel the after-effects in the morning. But what the f*** it’s
DUMME JUNGS time!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dumme+Jungs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.