After founding DuskMachine in late 2004, original members Nikolai Wurk (guitar),  Randy Black (drums), Peter Habura (bass) and Hagen Hirschmann (vocals) didn't waste any time and started to write material for a concept album based on the writings of German 18th century writer E.T.A. Hoffmann. 

Using low tunings to create a dark atmosphere which supported even darker storylines, they managed to combine heavy riffing with machine-like grooves. One could describe DuskMachine's compositions as groovy thrash metal with a progressive attitude, but this still doesn't fully characterize the bands stylistic diversity. 

Often compared with bands like Grip Inc. and Nevermore, the bands first release "The Final Fall" hit the stores in late 2005 and received great reviews. But suffering from lineup changes in the most unsuitable moments, they never received the chance to prove themselves to a bigger live audience.

Then, during the recordings for the next album - Russ Bergquist had become the new bass player - destiny struck again when new vocalist Mirko Preach decided to concentrate more on his other projects and left. But where others would give up, the remaining members didn't waste time and contacted Joe Comeau (ex-Overkill, ex-Annihilator), asking him to take over vocal duties.

After listening to the new material, Joe immediately agreed to join and they got an offer to play the famous "70,000 tons of Metal" cruise. This event presented the new and powerful line-up to a selected audience alongside bands such as Testament, Exodus, Fear Factory, Iced Earth, Forbidden, Amon Amarth and other great metal acts.

In late 2012, the four machinists inked a worldwide deal with Massacre Records, one of the most important independent labels for heavy music from the past 20 years. 

With a release scheduled for July 2013, the guys are ready to pound the metal world with their second self-titled album, melding monstrous rhythms, grooves and deep harmonies alongside amazing vocal melodies and hooks....enter DuskMachine.... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/DuskMachine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.