Dustsucker can refer to:

1) A Dutch Grind/Mathcore band:
DUSTSUCKER probably formed somewhere in 2004 as a progressive hardcore/grind solo project. Things that might or might not have happened in the meantime are among other things: the release of an independent 3-way split with DoD and Scex in 2005, another independent release called "Clockwork Crackwhore" in 2006 which is freely available to download at the dustsucker myspace (www.myspace.com/dustsucker), some legal bullshit barking Germans from a band with the same name, and the recording of a whole bunch of songs that were never released. A couple of disturbing liveshows may have taken place and, eventhough they contained an overflow of filth, pigheads, snuff films, gasmasks, noise and bad language, they were never shut down by the police, so there's no reason to brag about such a thing. An imaginary worldtour wasn't cancelled, because it was never planned in the first place, and the tragic news about the deceased leadsinger being followed by a long line of bad second-hand ripoff replacements that never really "caught the chemistry of the original band" definately doesn't apply to DUSTSUCKER. 

2) A German hardrock band:
Since May 1993 basically in the form of the two friends Max Count Farmer (guitar, vocals) and Marco Piermattei (drums). After several gigs with various bass players and a supporting slot for DOA they began recording their first album which was released in late summer 1994 on their own label, Zylinder Records. The music press of the world rejoiced and in early 1995 DUSTSUCKER helped wear out the stages of several European clubs. Then began the work of recording their second album, which was produced in September 1996 in the Iceland Studios by Ricky van Helden (Attack). Another One Sucks The Dust, the title of the album, was again a great success and became the starting shot for a series of gigs (some with DOA, Warpath and Exploited) and releases. 1999 saw the release of their King Size RocknRoll EP and, in 2001, the Hookers Planet album, before coming under the wing of famed producer Claus Grabke in 2003 and looking for a new label for their latest output, the EP Backslider. Reactions to the Backslider EP were overwhelming and resulted in a record deal with Go Nuts Music, as well as one song (Bronco Buster) on the Geki-Teki Metal compilation issued by cult Radio DJ Captain Wada, and released on 21st April 2004 on M+I Records in Japan. The full album RocknRoll Sniper was again recorded in the Upstairs Studios under the production of Claus Grabke and will be released worldwide on 13th September 2004 by Go Nuts Music. 


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dustsucker">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.