DUST BOLT, formed in 2006, is a thrash metal band from Landsberg am Lech (Bavaria), Germany. 

The four young musicians already started playing music together and playing shows very young and early and quickly gained attention. With another bandname they started playing regional shows at first, but were able to play as support act for highly known bands such as Sepultura, Hypocrisy oder Napalm Death very soon. In 2010 they released their first Demo Tape „Chaos Possession“ single-handedly and first time with the name DUST BOLT. Metal Hammer Germany described the Band as Top Newcomer Act in Metal music and Chaos Possession was titled as „Demotape of the Month.“ The number of shows increased immediately and the band soon becomes a national known act, when DUST BOLT was able to play theier first European Tour with Six feet under and be the winner of WACKEN METAL BATTLE Germany, which made them playing at Wacken Open Air. The band decided to record their first Longplayer „Violent Demolition“, which finally made them signing a deal with Napalm Records. The debut gained major success and was sold over 5000 times so far worldwide and DUST BOLT was now known as top newcomer act in Thrash Metal in Germany and all over the world, also resulting from their extraordinary live performances. Napalm records also released the first two official music video for the tracks „Violent Abolition“ and „Toxic Attack“ and the band is able to play many club and festival shows in 2013, a Germany Tour with OBITUARY and a long European Tour with Bay Area band HEATHEN, which also made them a highly international known act. After being nominated for „best album 2012“ and „best newcomer“ at Metal Hammer Awards 2013 and another tour with Crossover band Dr.LIVING DEAD Lenny Breuss, Flo Dehn, Benedikt Münzel und Nico Remann went into the studio again, to record their second album „AWAKE THE RIOT“, which is going to be released 30.05.2014 in Germany, Austria and Switzerland and 10.06.2014 in the rest of the world. The album will be promoted by Headliner-Shows in Germany, festivalshows and another planned European Tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dust+Bolt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.