Dwelling’s birth dates back to ’98 as a solo project by Nuno Roberto. Keeping in mind the creation of music based solely on acoustic instruments, he collected melodies and fragments of varied inspiration, often conceived having the seaside landscape of the Algarve as background. 

 
In the year 2000, the need to enrich the project’s musical framework and to turn it into a more established entity would ultimately lead to the recruiting of additional members: Sílvia Freitas, on violin, Catarina Raposo, on vocals, Jaime Ferreira, on bass guitar, and Helder Dias, on guitar.

During the writing process that ensued, the band wrote down the general guidelines for new songs, and, finally, the turn of the year 2001 met the band finalizing the five pieces that they would later record during the course of March 2001 and which they presented on "Moments", the band’s debut MCD on Equilibrium Music. 

In September 2002, and following various live performances in support of "Moments", Helder Dias left the band, having been replaced shortly after by Nicholas Ratcliffe. The two months that followed were spent preparing the recording sessions for their new material, as well as another set of live shows, which would take them to Madrid for an appearance at the Arcana Europa international festival.

The first full-length album, "Humana", was recorded during the winter of 2002/2003, and released via their label Equilibrium Music in October on that same year. The band spent the end of 2003 and the whole year in 2004 promoting it, featuring in inumerous concerts all over Portugal, and a couple of trips abroad to perfom at Rome and Modena, in Italy, and also at Liepzig, Germany, where they were a part of the prestigious Wave Gotik Treffen. 

Closing the cicle on “Humana”, Dwelling welcomed two new members - Moritz Branco, for classical guitar, thus replacing Nicholas Ratcliffe, and Alexandra Bochmann, for violin. The year 2005 was devoted to the preparation of the sucessor of "Humana". 

In 2007 they released their second full-length album, named "Ainda é Noite". The album was released once again through Equilibrium Music and has a darker sound. It has songs in both portuguese and english, as the previous works. 

The band is influenced by various musical types, such as darkwave, neoclassical, gothic, neofolk, jazz and fado and they melt them into their own sound.

The current line-up is:
Catarina Raposo - vocals
Silvia Freitas - violin
Alexandra Bochmann - violin
Nuno Roberto - acoustic guitar
Moritz Branco - acoustic guitar
Jaime Ferreira - bass

Official website:
http://www.dwelling.equilibriummusic.com/
Official myspace:
http://www.myspace.com/dwellingband

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dwelling">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.