Dying Euforia is a melodic metal band based out of the Twin Cities of Minnesota.

Formed in January of 2006 as a thrash/metal-core band D.E. quickly climbed the ranks of the Twin Cities metal Scene, Becoming a headlining band by their 2nd show.

Dying Euforia released "The Faceless Unknown" independantly in November of 2007. The album was a high energy, guitar fueled release that was recorded without a click in order to preserve the raw, agressive, energetic feel the songs had live. the Title Track remains a staple of Dying Euforia's set to this day, utilized as either the show opener, or closer.

D.E. began their touring career in the Spring of 2009 when they signed to lacross, WI based ZeroBudget Records (celebrating their 25th anniversary in September of 2010)

Their 2nd album, "Truth, Trust, Ashes" was released through ZBR on April 25th, 2009. the title track received extensive airplay throughout the midwest, and the b-side "Deserve To hate" became a surprise favorite on midwest metal stations.

Dying Euforia's Latest offering is "This Veil Of Tears", released 8.24.10. With Veil, D.E. found themselves exploring other sides of Their vast influences, incorporating the huge, anthemic choruses typicaly found in Rock and Pop songs., while still maintaining their metalic roots. For this, Dying Euforia enlisted the help of producer Ian combs (Johnny Rook, Throw The fight, 3 Pill morning, etc.)

In Ian the band found their "Mutt Lang" and look to do pre-production and record their next album entitled "As The last memory fades" with Ian in the producers chair this Fall and Winter for a spring 2011 release.

Dying Euforia have shared the stage with such noteworthy acts as: Threat Signal, The Autumn Offering, Ekotren, Luna Mortis, Destrophy, Epicurean, the Agonist, Within Chaos, Bleed The Sky, Straighline Stitch, DieCast, Butcher Jones, American Head Charge and Testament.

tour plans are in the works for the rest of 2010 and 2011....so keep the beer on ice and the condoms stocked...D.E. is comin to town!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dying+Euforia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.