There are multiple artists named Dying Embrace:

1) Dying Embrace is a doom metal band from São Paulo, Brazil formed in 2002. Released "Chronic Delusion" in 2006.
   
2) Initially formed as Misanthrope in 1991, Indian death doom metal band Dying Embrace, then comprising of vocalist Deepak Prasad, guitarist Jimmy Palkhivala & Daniel Marc David on drums, released a demo tape in early 1993. The self-titled recording found its way around the almost non-existent Indian extreme metal underground which resulted in the band garnering a modest measure of local interest. Shortly after,vocalist Deepak Prasad opted out of the band for health reasons leaving guitarist Jimmy Palkhivala to briefly take on vocal duties, this arrangement was short-lived however with the inclusion of vocalist Vikram Bhat as the new frontman. At this point, a changed monicker, one suitable for the slightly different direction the band was heading in, was chosen: Dying Embrace. Heavily influenced by early material by Black Sabbath, Autopsy, Candlemass, Trouble, Paradise Lost among others, Dying Embrace crafted their own unique original dark, foreboding sound.

In 1997 the band entered the studio with new bassist Jai "Sarge" Kumar to record a 6-song mini album and a 3-song EP which was released independently as:“SERENADES OF DEPRAVITY” along with the "GROTESQUE EP" on Friday 13th February 1998 on limited cassette tape version & subsequently also in 2000 along with all new artwork on very limited DIY CD-r format. The sound on this mini-album plus Ep can be described as raw,doom-laden death metal. Initially circulated in the Indian underground,“SERENADES…” soon found it’s way into the underground scene abroad as well,this overseas interest culminating in a vinyl deal with French extreme metal label “Legion Of Death(L.O.D) Records”.A gatefold 7” EP titled "Misanthrope" was put out on 25th of january, 2002 containing two new tracks,specially recorded for L.O.D,sadly this was the last studio effort by the band,2002 was a difficult year for the band as well,both Daniel Marc David(Drums) and Jai(Bass) had to move out of hometown Bangalore for professional reasons and Dying Embrace was left with founding member Jimmy and vocalist Vikram, instead of finding new members to continue the band they decided to leave the band in a state of suspended animation.Jimmy & Vikram went on to create more sickening music but thats another gruesome story alltogether.

2011, 20 years having passed of the bands initial formation and almost 10 years since disbanding abruptly,The Undergrind Fest which is an annual event in the bands hometown of Bangalore played a major catalyst in bringing the maestro and the maverick together again! With the inclusion of drummer extraordinaire Deepak Raghu it was decided to resurrect the band once again.

Discography:
MISANTHROPE DEMO (1993)
SERENADES OF DEPRAVITY +GROTESQUE E.P (1998)(cassette format)
SERENADES OF DEPRAVITY + GROTESQUE E.P (2000)(Re-issue on CD-r format)
MISANTHROPE 7" VINYL E.P (L.O.D.RECORDS,France 2002) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dying+Embrace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.