Dyinise are a 4 piece Thrash Metal band that originated in early 2008 and are based in Chester, UK. Their writing and musical influences include classic Metal bands such as; Metallica, Megadeth, Testament, Slayer and Pantera but also bands from today such as Trivium, Bullet For my Valentine, Dragonforce, Unearth and Killswitch Engage. They are dedicated and focused to writing fast and heavy songs but incorporating these two elements into a listenable song.

The Bands name was born when Chris was listening to Slayer's "Angel Of Death" a line in the song appealed to him. Afterwards he had came to realise his mistake that the line in the song was “Dying Eyes”. People liked the idea of the band name as it was unique thus turning the band name from "Dying Eyes" into “DYINISE”.

Chris has been playing guitar from the age 14, spending all his time learning to shred like his heroes and understaning the art of songwriting. Being perhaps the most eclectic member, brings a wide range of influences to the table. Going from obvious Metal acts such as Megadeth and Metallica to completely different genres, incorporating ideas from guitar pop and classical music.

Broos picked up the bass at the age of 16 in college after being inspired by bands like Nirvana, Pantera and Slayer. Although his roots were based in soft rock, Indie and Grunge, Broos was drawn in by the driving, hard hitting riffs of Thrash Metal and has never looked back!

Vic just like all the other members of Dyinise comes from a different musical background again, influenced by melodic death metal such as Scar Symmetry, Soilwork, and Meshuggah. He is a meticulous drummer with precition and extreme attention to detail, with an attitude of "You Can never have to much Thrash!"

The 4 members of Dyinise are progressively gaining a fan base in the North West, playing shows in Crewe, Northwhich, Chester, Manchester and Liverpool. As well as gaining a fan base within the UK, Dyinise have received a great response from the Metal Community in America.

Throughout 2009 Dyinise recorded their first demo album and played multiple shows throughout the Northwest of the UK.

From summer to autumn 2009 Dyinise have recorded their second demo album "...And The World Will Bleed" which is now uploaded on the myspace page. In early 2010, Faz left the band and Dyinise are looking for a new guitarist.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dyinise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.