There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Dysentery is Brutal death metal band from US. They formed in 2002 and are currently made up of Will Caruso (Vocals), Blue Peter (Guitars, Raising Kubrick, Porphyria (US), Parasitic Extirpation, Sexcrement), Drew Copeland-Will (Bass, Proteus (US), Parasitic Extirpation) and Eric Taranto (Drums, The Finite). Their style is made up of old school death metal with slam death metal, and sound similar to Gorevent, Drowning in Phemaldehyde and Human Mastication.

Formed in 2002, Dysentery was brought together with the intention of forging obscenely brutal death metal. Since the band's inception, they have received great acclaim for their 'Slaughtered Remnants' demo [2003], and the infamous Dysentery/Gutrot split 'Excruciatingly Euphoric Torment' [2004]. 

As with many bands over the years, Dysentery weathered lineup changes and the ravages of time but pressed on in their dedication to forge new levels of brutality, heaviness and groove. Composed of members of the original Dysentery, Parasitic Extirpation, Sexcrement and Proteus, the band unleashed their long awaited full length 'From Past Suffering Comes New Flesh' on Amputated Vein Records in late 2008.

With the release of the album, the band has made their presence known as a major force in death metal making their way all over the US by way of several tours and countless shows with the underground's heaviest hitters. The band's second album, Internal Devastation, was released in 2011, and the years following have seen numerous shows and mini-tours, mostly in the Northeast US, with acts such as Dying Fetus, Dehumanized and Putrid Pile, as well as appearances at festivals such as New York and New Jersey Deathfest. In early 2014, vocalist Will Caruso left the band. The band is currently working on recruiting a new vocalist and preparing for a set of gigs with a newly reformed Devourment.

Official Myspace

2) Dysentery are a death metal band from Slovakia formed in 2000. They released a demo in 2004 called  'In Memoriam Aeternam'.

3) Dysentery is a German death metal/goregrind band. Their early sound was similar to early Carcass.

4) Dysentery is an American hardcore  band from Riverside, Ca. They released a split CD with Falling Sickness.

5) Dysentery was a death metal band from Uppsala, Sweden formed in 1991 featuring Angramain'yo, who went on to play in one-man raw black metal band Azhubham Haani.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dysentery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.