There are multiple bands named Dysphoria:

1) Brutal Deathcore / Mathcore / Downtempo band from Ukraine. 
5 years ago they made fun of deathcore genre clichés. Now Dysphoria got stuck in uberslow breakdowns infected by mathcore epilepsy and covered by extra-brutal vocals.
Band became famous for fusing deathcore and mathcore genres, developing their own unique sound and style.

Dysphoria released three albums - Satyriasis XXI (2010), To The Perfect Form Of Modern Species (2012) and most fresh The Apogee (2014), as well as shot videos for War Precursor and Such a Beautiful Failure songs.
Three times the band was on road in Eastern Europe - at Satyriasis XXI Tour 2011, Perfect Form Tour 2012 and Face the Reality Tour 2013.
Support the band by ordering their new “The Apogee” LP at  iTunes, Amazon and  Bandcamp.
Buy Dysphoria’s CDs and merch. 

Line-up: Max — vocals | Alex — guitar, production |  Igor — bass | Vadim — drums
Links: vk | facebook | youtube | bandcamp

2. A Hardcore band from Lansdale, PA, originally formed in 1993 and said to be heavily influenced by that times death metal scene (Florida’s, in particular). The band first self-released a demo in ‘94, followed by the “…You Wish You Tried” demo in 1995. They then released the full length “Hope Without Reason”in 1997 as well as a 3-way split with Hoods and Above This World, called “The World Is Ours” on West Coast Worldwide in 1999. This would become their final release. 
Band members went on to form How It Ends (Thorpe Records), eventually losing their vocalist and having Todd “Gravity” (Dysphoria’s vocalist) rejoin them. On September 29th, 2006 Dysphoria played a reunion set and How It Ends played their final set in their hometown of Lansdale. 
Dysphoria is set to return to play the “This Is Hardcore” and “East Coast Tsunami” Fests of 2010.

3. An Egyptian death/doom band.

4. A German death metal band.

5. “An obscure death metal band from East Chicago, Indiana. Formed in 1992. They released only one demo entitled Day of Atonement in 1992 before splitting up.

6. A harsh noise artist from Greensboro, North Carolina. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dysphoria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.