There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Dystopia was a sludge/crust band that formed in Orange County, USA in 1991. They were popular in both the heavy metal and crust punk scenes, due in large part to their bleak misanthropic imagery. Their lyrics often dealt with human emotion and sociopolitical issues such as environmentalism, racial equality, animal rights, and veganism.
Dystopia is a soundtrack for the world as we know it today. Their sound embodies all of the horrors, pain, agony and desperation of modern day society. They disbanded in 2008, after releasing their third album.

2) Dystopia is a Finnish duo, featuring Pertti Grönholm (synthesizers, samplers, tapes) and Ismo Virta (guitars, effects).

The Second Dawn; a masterpiece of dark ambient music, with the constant threat of a nuclear disaster as the main theme. The second dawn is the ultimate nightmare, still present in our minds when we awake, and realise that everything have changed... at the second dawn. Released December 1998.

3) Dystopia is a Hungarian band, founded in 2003 by Peter Bajusz (bass), Balazs Mezey (guitar) and Gabor Vari (guitar). Their music is a consistent mix of thrash, progressive, modern and southern metal with mostly melodic vocals, guitar solos and generally metaphysical lyrics. They released a debut album, "Incompetence Drive", in 2007.

4) Dystopia is a Finnish experimental hard dance project formed by Nomic (Kimon Kukulis), and Gohai (Antti Pääkkönen.)

5) Dystopia is an extreme metal band from Holland formed in 2004. They are recognized by their eclectic mix of black, death and thrash metal with a raw edge. After numerous demo's they released their first full-length called Decay in 2012.

6) Dystopia was a performance art group from New Zealand that combined poetry, music and photography. Their first album "The Wisdom of Insecurity" was the first release in 2000 on fledgling label Monkey Records, followed by an EP "Live on bFM" in 2002. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dystopia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.