The Line-up
Dystocia is a metal band, founded 2007 by the name of "Buried A Life" in Marburg, Germany. 

To the remaining "Buried  A Life" members Kiljan Kaffenberger (guitar) and Isi Paehr (bass) joined summer 2008 Martin Kaiser (Ex-Nemesis) to claim the space behind the drumset.
Some weeks later Milosz Krala (Ex-In Abeyance) joined them as vocalist , as they met at the local "Chaostraum Festival". Towards years end Fleming Schürmann as 'outsanding young talent' completed the recent line-up as second guitar-player. This severly change in personal soonly shifted the sound to a complete different level.

The Music
'For startup, we used the existing material of previous Buried A Life. We didn't know each other and couldn't estimate one another's skills. Soon we realized that we have to develop a sound, different from our previous projects.'
After a lot of experimenting and masses of discarded material, common preferences were marked and after less than 6 months recordings for the 5-track debut EP "Against The Wall" started.
Most different influences of recent and past metalbands may be heared as well as unconventional experiments and arrangements.
'Wheter it's death, melodic, core or simply groovy metal, those terms are completly extraneous. We decided for a modern and striking in-your-face sound.

The Debut
For the recording of "Against The Wall" the band chose the collaboration with Thilo Krieger in his Desert Inn Studio, with whom Milking The Goatmachine, Bastardo, Lay Down Rotten and many more already did their recordings.
'We were surprised how quickly the work was done. Not that we were harried, we just worked out pretty fine together. That gave us space to learn from the advice which Thilo gave us.'
"Against The Wall" will be released in november 2009, and for the moment distributed by the band itself.

The Gigs
Essentially for the speed of the band's development are their, up to now local, gigs.
'The first time we played in front of an audience together, we all had rare experience on stage. For Fleming it was even the first time on stage. Yet there was this first vital spark – we've been on rampage and the audience was as well. It was awesome!'
The overwhelming positive feedback still fuels the machinery. Restlessly Dystocia works on new material, whereby the arrangements are mostly characterized by Kiljan. Oftenly his concepts are the basis on which songs get developed.


Live History
20.09.08 - Chaostraum Open Air
14.11.08 - Sportlerheim Mornshausen /w Ares, Fake Healer, Encased by Shadows

24.11.08 - Compass Marburg


06.02.09 - KFZ Marburg 
06.03.09 - Krokodil Marburg w/ Vender, Skychief & Disco in Barstow 
21.03.09 - Knubbel Marburg w/ Painting Ablaze & Day Of Decay 
19.04.09 - Nachtsalon Marburg w/ The Earwix
10.05.09 - Batschkapp Frankfurt
05.06.09 - Café O-Läg Gladenbach w/ Burning Saints, Encased by Shadows
06.06.09 - Compass Marburg
28.08.09 - Black Sunset Festival
19.09.09 - Knubbel Marburg w/ Paedagogic Torment, Iuramentum 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Dystocia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.