E Nomine (a twist of the Latin phrase "In nomine" meaning “In the name”) is a German musical project, formed in 1999, by producers Christian Weller and Friedrich “Fritz” Graner. Their music, which they call monumental dance, is an unusual combination of trance/techno and vocals which closely resemble Gregorian singing and chanting. Other vocals are performed by German voice actors; such as long-time collaborators Christian Brückner and Rolf Schult.

After several years with no news of the project, e-mail correspondence between a fan and Chris Tentum (Weller) revealed that the group was in the process of producing new material, due for release some time in the near future. A year after this came to light, a new single from E Nomine appeared on Amazon.de entitled Heilig, due for release on December 28, 2007. The release date has since been pushed to mid-February 2008.

Some fans speculate the E Nomine music project will soon, or already has, ended. Their official website has not been updated since early 2005, as well as no official release of any material since Das Böse. In December of 2007, the single Heilig was stated for release, but due to complications with their record company it was pushed back into Janauary, and eventually February of 2008. Despite this, an actual hard copy was never shipped to any stores, and was only sold via select online music stores.

Sometime in mid 2008, various videos of an E Nomine peformance emerged on several video sharing websites which contained a live music and acrobatic performance to select previously released work. It contained an introduction of “Das Beste aus Gottes Beitrag und Teufels Werk”, as well as the new ‘Heilig’ and an unannounced new song ‘Excalibur’. However, this performance was dated to late 2007.

In recent times, all albums have stopped being stocked in music outlets, and became listed as “discontinued”. Friedrich Graner has left the group as well, leaving the project in the lone hands of Christian Weller. With no real news in 2008, the status of the project is questionable.

Official Website: http://www.enomine-germany.de <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/E+Nomine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.