The sound of perseverance! That would best describe Singapore band E-thereal, of course in an alternate reality where music is not confined to limited descriptions such as ‘death metal’, ‘melodic metal’ or just ‘metal’. Having lasted for more than 15 years with multiple line-up changes, E-thereal embodies the sound of perseverance and the struggle of wills; the will to survive, the will to experiment and the will to excite.

E-thereal’s will to survive is seen in its unwavering allegiance to metal, especially death metal. Music trends come and go in super-trendy Singapore, but the band persists in its musical choice.

The band’s longevity demonstrates the willingness to overcome the problems of a highly divided and limited local music scene/market, and the harsh realities of being part-time musicians with strong passion. Since established by guitarist Rudi Rosmawan and drummer Ross Khalil in 1992, the band have had a few releases in the forms of EPs and singles namely; Visions Of Doom ( 1996 ) , Pleading For Survival ( 1998 ) , Anak Liar ( 2002 ) and Social Misery ( 2004 ).

Experiment is a dirty word to certain sections of metal but in E-thereal, it is embraced. Even before the worldwide popularity of melodic death metal, the band has incorporated melody in its music, and melody is a strong characteristic of E-thereal. It is evident in the songwriting, the neo-classical shredding lead guitar solos and guitar harmony lines. E-thereal is not afraid to slow down the tempo and vary the grooves to add dynamics to the music. All of these make E-thereal more than just a generic death metal band. The willingness to experiment makes them relevant, dynamic and a vital metal force.

But metal is not just aural excitement. The ferocity and precision of guitar team, Rudi Rosmawan and Muhd Rudy Sukadis, is amazement itself.In 2007,coupled with a stable rhythm section in drummer, Ross Khalil, and bassist Nyi Lin Han, E-thereal not only sounds solid but looks solid as well. For the longest time, Rudi was doing vocals as well as crushing on guitars. E-thereal needed to take the visual aspect of the band to a higher level as well as letting Rudi focus on songwriting, playing and producing. Enter Niz Syazana, a woman with good looks and a demonic voice, Succubus incarnate!With this line-up,the band bring fourth their debut full length album entitled 'The Acts Of God' which was released on their own Starnge Production Records towards the end of 2008. 

But before any promotional gigs and showcase to promote the newly released debut album could be made,the band started to fall apart in the beginning of 2009 .By mid of the year,Niz and Nyi Han had already been out of the band.Former bassist Wadi rejoined the band and with session guest singers,E-thereal managed to perform a gig in the same year,which also happened to be co-founding member/drummer Ross Khalil's last gig with the band.However,refusing to give up and wanting to uphold the legacy of the band,the remaining members Rudi Rosmawan,Rudy Sukadis and Wadi began searching for replacements and by 2010,Natasha Azura (formerly of Obscure Phionix) and Md Syamil (of Shyml )were recruited on vocals and drums respectively.With this new killer Line-up,E-thereal is ready to kill the stage again and soon working on new materials for a second follow up release by late 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/e-thereal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.