In late 1996. first line-up of E.N.D. (Evil Never Dies) was gathered for their first rehearsal in Zadar/Croatia. One year later, serious work starts to be a part of their interests. Through the years, besides the large number of people that passed through, band's image and genre were changing gradually. At first they worked exclusively on HARD-CORE music but in time METAL starts to be the ground zero of inspiration. Today, the stile they grew is based on experimenting with many extreme metal directions but in every way it is combination of fast drums, low tuned guitars, thrashy riffs with occasional breakdowns and polyrhythmical parts followed by mid-pitch screaming vocals.

Experience that the band collected over the years can be expressed by a large number of gigs all over Croatia and some in neighbor countries, couple of demo records, videos, participation in compilation CD's, EP, official full length album, countless interviews and presentations in magazines, newspapers, web portals, blogs, Radio and TV shows which gave them status of one of the most known, as one of the oldest active metal bands in the county and wider. 

In a list of shows E.N.D. shared stage with: PUNGENT STENCH, ONLY ATTITUDE COUNTS, GOD DETHRONED, NEGURA BUNGET, THE OCEAN, MUNICIPAL WASTE ... among many other foreign and local great names.

In April 1999., band records their first studio demo "Shortest Distance From The Truth". Two years after, their potential was recognised and they were invited to participate in their first regional metal compilation "Stormbreed" with song "Free Yourself" for which they also shot their first video piece. 

Year 2003. was the year of their second studio demo "Thru The Thorns" and the year of many changes.

Period from the year 2000-2006 was pretty hard because of Alen's (guitars and vocals) separation from the rest of the band. Although he lived in another town in order to put an end to his academic duties, they still managed to find some time and organize a rehearsal. Things were going very slow but the results are here.

In march 2005. the band recorded three new songs. This promo EP named "...to the bones!" contains also second video for the song "Pointless Revelation", live pictures and mp3's arranged as flash multimedia interface.

In October 2005 band sufferes a tragedy. They lost a dear friend and a bass player Brane (R.I.P). The world has lost one of the most kind, respectable and honest human being and damn fine musician. 

In October 2006. E.N.D. signs with DALLAS RECORDS for two of their songs from "...to the bones!" EP for "New Underground - Hard Hitters From Croatia" compilation CD that collected very good reviews.

Three years after the last recording and one year of hard practicing in a new "three man band" situation, the band finally records their first official full lenght album called "Depravity". They entered the studio in summer 2008. and a small local publisher releases their album in March 2009.
The album has received very good reviews and the new line up left the best impressions so far. For the first time E.N.D.'s album can be found on the shelves of local CD stores, world wide online shop CDBaby and all major mp3 distributors like iTunes, Amazon, Napster, Rhapsody...


Discography:
Shortest Distance From The Truth (Demo, 1999.)
Free Yourself (Single, Stormbreed compilation, 2001.)
Thru The Thorns (Demo, 2003.)
...to the bones (EP, 2005.)
New Underground (Dallas Records compilation, 2006.)
Depravity (Album, 2009.)

Videos:
Free Yourself (Single, 2001.)
Pointless Revelation (...to the bones, EP, 2005.)
Low Profile (Depravity, Album, 2009.)

Memorable members:
Alen Babin (Guitars, Vocals, 1996.-present)
Davor Babin - Didin (Drums, 1996.-present)
Davor Vekić (Bass, 1996.-2000.)
Ivan Segarić (Guitars 2000.-2003., Bass 2005.-2009.)
Luka Škara (2001.-2003.)
Branko Kolenc (Bass, 2003.-2005.)
Mario Mandir (Guitars, 2003.-2007.)
Ivan Car (Bass, 2009.-present)


websites:
www.myspace.com/endzadar
www.facebook.com/endband
www.reverbnation.com/endband
www.soundclick.com/evilneverdies

contact:
alen.end@gmail.com
endzadar@myspace.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/E.N.D.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.