The Czech power metal band Eagleheart was founded by guitarist Michal Kůs and a couple of his friends in 2003. At the beginnig the line-up changed several times but soon long-time members Jiří Fiala (bass) and Zdeněk Vémola (drums) joined the band. In 2005 Eagleheart found a singer Vojtěch Šimoník with whom they recorded their first EP called Black Sun, which was influenced by classic power metal bands like Helloween and Stratovarius. Thereafter, Eagleheart made several shows and became popular in their hometown Brno.

At the beginning of 2007 Eagleheart won a contest with recording the album in a professional studio as the first prize. The studio helped the band a lot to record their first long-playing CD called Moment Of Life which was released at the beginning of 2008 by the Czech independent label Metal Swamp. The new material supported by a music video for the title song and intensive live activities gained success and the band became one of the best power metal acts in the country. Not only the quality of the first album which was positively reviewed not only in Czech but mainly their energetic live performances often compared to old Helloween helped the band to perform as a support for names like WASP, Blaze Bayley, André Matos, Elvenking, Dark Moor or House Of Lords or at the biggest Czech metal festivals Masters Of Rock and Benátská Noc where Eagleheart played for thousands of fans.

During 2009 Eagleheart started the composition process for the new album and since the material turned out to be the strongest in the band’s history, Eagleheart decided to choose a renowned producer, guitar player and singer, Roland Grapow (Masterplan, ex-Helloween), to help them make an outstanding album. In October 2010 a new second guitarist Michal Jankuliak joined Eagleheart and the band was finally ready for the recording session that started at the beginning of 2011 in Grapow Studios, Slovakia. After many weeks of hard work, the new album of Eagleheart called Dreamtherapy is now ready to be released. The band as well as Roland himself is really satisfied with the final result since the production is awesome and the material much heavier and faster and simply better than ever before. In October 2011 Eagleheart signs a deal with an Italian metal label Scarlet Records (Shaman, Labyrinth, etc.) which will release Dreamtherapy in Europe on 24th November 2011 and 17th January 2012 in USA! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eagleheart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.