"Earl" refers to two artists:

1) The project of singer-songwriter Nathan Allebach
2) Earl, female singer-songwriter (previously Kate Earl)

1) "Earl" is the most recent project of singer-songwriter Nathan Allebach who formed the local collaboration "Earl & Raine". They released one full length album in October of 2011, but Nathan soon went on to start fresh with music he could call his own.

Based out of the Schwenksville area, he hosts the weekly open mic at Steel City Coffee House in Phoenixville, books and promotes concert events at Rock Cafe in Harleysville, and has been performing in the Philadelphia scene for three years, as well as playing with local bands "Oh Constantine" and "Former Belle".

Earl is currently is the studio recording his debut album "Beginnings" scheduled to be released in the spring with songs resonating the likes of City & Colour, The Decemberists, Rocky Votolato, and David Bazan.


2) Earl is a female American singer-songwriter based in the U.K, currently.

Earl was born to Charles and Pomposa Smithson in Anchorage, Alaska. She is of Filipino, Dutch and Welsh descent. She began playing piano at 4, sang in her church choir, and began playing the guitar when she was seventeen. The young singer nursed the dream to lead a musician's life in between shifts at her parent’s small-town gas station. That dream became a reality when Kate moved to Los Angeles in 2004, where her talent was promptly recognized and led to a record deal with The Record Collection. Her debut album, Fate Is the Hunter, was released in May 2005 under the name 'Kate Earl'. 

After releasing 2 more studio albums under this name (self-titled 'Kate Earl' and 'Stronger'), Earl moved to the U.K. and  began to pursue an independent musician life. She released an independent EP via Pledgemusic ('Ransom') under that name before striping it down completely to 'Earl'. Taking to music once more with a new name, she began to approach her music differently, returning to jazz roots and fussing pop and catchy melodies which garnered the attention of BBC Radio 2 several times over before she was interviewed by Dermot O'Leary live on BBC Radio 2.

In 2015, Earl released single 'Good Witch'.
In 2016, Earl released single 'I Love You.'
In 2017, Earl released single 'Tongue Tied' and announced that she was working on a new studio album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Earl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.