Since 2009, Earthrot has been a sought after act in the North Texas Metal Scene. Drawing fans of all ages with their style of Metal. Earthrot’s ability to remain undefined has allowed them to contribute to a vast label of genres both on the local circuit and as the opening act for a large number of touring artists. Earthrot’s members having been from different parts of North Texas have allowed them to draw a number of fans in both major cities in the region as well as the smaller towns that support Metal and other sub-genres alike. 

Vocalist Phillip Owen has been integral to Earthrot’s success with his dominant prowess and demeanor on stage as well as his charisma off stage towards fans. Having worked behind the scenes and on the front lines, Phillip Owen has made good use of his experiences bringing Earthrot on stage to be a hard hitting metal machine. 

As one of Earthrot's founders, Guitarist Kevin Smith brought the initial sound of Earthrot with his ability to blend multiple influences to create a breed of Metal that speaks directly to the fans. 

Guitarist John Mayfield has to be one of the best lead guitarists in the area. With his crushing leads and stage presence, he takes the overall rhythm of the music beyond the driving progressions to place Earthrot well within the ranks of major players in Metal. 

Bassist and programmer Rez Kowzer adds an element to the band that gives Earthrot ethereal landscapes and creates a character with rhythms and counter melodies that drive Earthrot's core sound. With a multifaceted group of genres and experience, Earthrot has generated a unique style that sets them apart from the rest in the genre. 

Earthrot is a hit to the chest, ripping out your heart and replacing it with a powerful engine to fuel you with 100% brutality enriched octane. With drive, passion and dedication, Earthrot has developed into a machine of fury, never once compromising their sound or ideals. Expect to continue to hear the name, for Earthrot is a force to be reckoned with and a band certain to give all they have to give. 

They have opened shows for Dying Fetus, Cattle Decapitation, and Morbid Angel. 

For Fans Of: Deicide, Cattle Decapitation, Katatonia, Dying Fetus, Opeth, Soulfly, Havok <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Earthrot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.