Earthling is a name of at least five acts:

(1) A UK trip-hop band
(2) A Spanish psytrance artist
(3) A USA extreme metal band
(4) A Japanese electro/synth pop band
(5) A brazilian Black Metal band

(1) A Bristol, UK, trip-hop band who are friends of Portishead (some songs on "Radar" contain some additional work by Geoff Barrow) and often grouped in the Bristolian 'triphop' set that includes Massive Attack and Tricky. Most of their songs have vocals by rapper Mau and some are with the female singer Moni.

After their début LP "Radar" in 1995 they dropped out of sight. Mau collaborated with four other bands - "Cuba", "2 Square", "Télépopmusik" and "Dirty Beatniks". The third member of Earthling, Andy Keep, has just released the début LP of his new Project called "Ming".

A second Earthling record was released in 2004 called Human Dust.

(2) A pseudonym of DJ Celli, who was was born on Ibiza, Spain, in 1977. In the early 90's, he began going to Full Moon parties and clubs on the island, which influenced him greatly, Since the island has always had a healthy music, and party scene. 

In 1992, he began working with an organization in Ibiza called Art Party, and learned the art of party organizing. 
When the first Psychedelic Trance arrived on the island, Celli fell in love with the music, and he, and a group of friends began organizing their own parties, specializing in Psychedelic trance. 

These parties were very successful, and helped to kick off the psytrance scene in Ibiza, which is still very popular today. 
It was at one of these parties that he played his first dj set. 

In the year 1998, after six years of making parties, and djing on the island, Celli bought his first studio equipment, and began creating his own music, shortly afterwards he formed his solo project… Earthling, releasing his first tracks "Just Say Yes" on T.I.P. records, "Dusty Hoffmans" on Neurobiotic records, and his début album "Patterns" on Acidance records in 2001, which gave him global recognition, and launched his career as an international Dj and performer. 

His second album was Hypernature (Dec 2008, Neurobiotic) and the latest is Candy Sweets (Aug 2014, Synergetic).

(3) Earthling began in the early 2009 as a project between Harrisonburg, VA, USA, natives Alan Fary (Guitar/Vox) & Brently Hilliard (Drums). After several short lived line-ups the band solidified with Praveen Chhetri (guitar) & Jordan Brunk (bass). Having released two three song demos, a 7″ split and Extensive touring of the DIY circuit of the area, the band has crafted a crusty black thrashing heavy metal sound drawing influence from across the spectrum of heavy music. Their album Dark Path was released May 7, 2013, on Forcefield Records.

(4) A Japanese band in the early 80's, most famous for their song "You Go On Natural".

(5) A black metal band from Brasília, Brazil. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Earthling">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.