EARTHEN is a Chicago based metal band which seeks to provide a range of listeners with quality music inspired by life experiences and the voice of nature which resonates within us all...

Earthen was born of “The Narthex Projeckt”, a creation brought into being in 2003 by Mike Le Gros. Originally a female fronted band, after experimenting with various different sounds and a plethora of members who came and went, Earthen has finally evolved into the sort of musical experience that it is today. With Mother Nature being the ever present driving force in all of our lives, she is often reflected in both the imagery and music that Earthen produces. Each member provides his or her own unique addition to the sound whether it be the soul-churning guitars, the storm of drums, the powerful emotion of the keyboards, the lilting accent of the flute, the thunder of bass or the haunting melody of the male vocals. Together they coalesce to form a voice that has been forgotten by humankind for far too long. You can hear us in the wolf’s mournful howl or in the night wind as it whispers through the ghostly trees. We are here to remind you of the fate that binds us all. We are Earthen.
Like the earth itself, this band was a natural evolution, an unforeseen sequence that brought it to what is known today both music and vision. From the years of its simple beginnings it was allowed to become what it became, a natural succession, an organic advancement that transcended the musical influences of all those who have contributed to create something greater than ourselves.

Origin to purpose, Earthen grew forth on the ideas in observance of the seasons change, the rise and fall of man, and finally, the reminder of the fate that binds us all. Each song then carried the haunting tones of nature and time, concepts of fragile years fueling the theme of how sacred both were. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Earthen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.