The band started in 2004 on the basis of Berdyansk, Ukraine one-man project Grindfather (death grind). In the shortest terms Dimos (guitar/vocal) with the help of bassman Ross (The True Serpens), session guitarist Pash (plays in restourants) and vocalist M.Xul (Vermis Mysteriis black band) recorded promo tape "Moody Cloaca" in the fast grind'n'roll style. In the end of 2004 this material was released by Imbecil Entertainment..Eclectic prod. in the split-CD format with the last work of Grindfather. The run was sold for three months and had pozitive references (Ebanath was marked good for their originality). Distribution was realized by such big world labels as Comatose Music, Displeased, Goregiastic, Relapse, Sevared, Takke, Grindethic, Danscrypt etc.
In the beginning of 2005 the band first performed live show in Berdyansk at Metal Attack 1. They performed with the following line-up Dimos (guitar/vocal), Ross (bass), M.Xul (vocal) with the pounding drum-machine.

In the autumn 2005 Ebanath changed their style to grinding deathcore and recorded first long play "That Now Is Necessary For You" in which the cult ukrainian label D.A.C. Prod. got interested. They created optimal conditions for recording and set dates of CD and T-shirts release.

In winter the line-up became quartet. The new members Max (vocal) and Chi (drums) from the brutal death band Pus Lactation came to Dimos and Ross. During intensive rehearsals they made the new material and repeated the songs from the last album "That Now Is Necessary For You". With the full line-up the band performed many concerts. In August 2006 the long play "That Now Is Necessary For You" was released. The band got proposal of further collaboration from the D.A.C. Prod.

For the second half of the year the band plans to visit one of the ukrainian Beast studios to make long play shit "Amoral Glamour". In October the date (4-5-6 of November) of recording of full-length album was defined. Recorded 22 songs for COYOTE Productions.
Also with Fecal Junk Records it is agreed to participate on "Sickz ways to incorrect gynecology" split together with Satsugai, Insanity Excursion, Fleischwal, Frackanus, Explosive Bowel Syndrom. For this 6-way we present 10 tracks from our debut material (released earlier as a split with Grindfather on Eclectic Productions), so it will appear as an european re-release of sold out stuff.

During October was recorded two cover-songs (We Are All Polish & You Broke My T-Shirt) for tribute to DEAD INFECTION (by Ukragn Records, Ukraine).

In January - February 2008 Ebanath recorded 7 songs for 4 ways split-CD on COYOTE records. Proud part with VULVULATOR (Ukraine), :TREMOR (Russia) and DEFECAL OF GERBE (France). Split-CD was released in April.

In october 2008 band recorded tracks for 10 WAYS TO RELIEVE THE WORLD FROM VIRGINS vs Organic Pulp (usa), Anus Tumor (ger), Hideous Bitch (new zeland), Emetica (serbia), Fäkal Massaker (ger) ,Keep Dreaming (swe), Freezedried Tugjobs (us), Terrorazor (ger), Clitsplit (ger). CD will be released by FECAL JUNK Records.
In october - record session for split-CD vs Septicopyemia (Ru) by Eclectic prod. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ebanath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.