Eben are producing beautiful, anthemic faith-filled songs that have captured many hearts since the band’s creation in April 2006. Eben seek to take listeners on an intimate, dynamic and uplifting journey. With each member engineering new sounds and penning both new and familiar emotions, eben bring their diversity to the forefront. At some moments a soaring chorus, others a string crescendo or vocal sampling. There are hints of eben frontman Olly Knight’s folk influences, and songs that point to a wealth of classical, alternative, experimental, and poetic loves. The reoccuring themes in eben's songs could be compared with classical pieces and push away from typical verse and chorus structures. Eben push the boundaries of a conventional rock band, treading where other bands may not.
Eben have been performing over the summer at festivals and venues across the UK. Highlights have included being picked by Zane Lowe and Hugh Stephens to play at Radio 1's Fringe Festival in Maidstone (lead up to the Big Weekend), playing at ZOO8 Festival, Kent (Mark Ronson, Pendulum and The Hives), Greenbelt Festival (Jose Gonzales, Fightstar and The Race), Lounge on the Farm Festival (The View, Super Furry Animals and Mystery Jets) & headlining at Soul Survivor Festival, Somerset. Brightness EP was recorded by the band at The Way Studio, London, and produced by Tai Azeez. The EP has been recieved really well since its release and Brightness has been used in an award winning Hollywood short movie.
The main influences eben would cite would be Sigur Ros, Arcade Fire and Radiohead, whilst enjoying a wide range of music genres from classical to progressive rock to indie.
"Eben are one of the finest bands that Kent has to offer, they never cease to set a high standard for unsigned acts to follow." Tom Kirkby BBC Kent Introducing.
Room Thirteen give Brightness EP 10/13 and write: "With a delicate reverence Eben paint melodic, touching tunes that swell with bliss and hope. The epic tunes with depth and dreamy introspection displayed on the 'Brightness EP' would be a fine start for any band, and having only to into being last year, Eben display an intricacy in their music that is highly sought after by far older groups."
Momentum (Soul Survivor Festival 06) write: "Only formed in spring this year, eben, have been making some noise on the scene with their anthemic, beautiful and inspiring genius. Dense lyrics and sparse melodies seamlessly blend together with no sound or hint of contradiction. Your chance to see them before the NME writers are gloating about UK rocks latest unconventional find." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eben">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.