Ebony Bones! is a moniker of London, UK singer-songwriter / record producer / actress Ebony Thomas (aka Ebony Bones). Performing for Rolling Stone Ebony Bones was recently named one of South by Southwest's best new acts of 2009.

A self-taught musician performing under the stage name Ebony Bones! in 2007, she writes, produces, plays her own instruments and sings all her own material. Created in her bedroom, Bones' self released 7" single We Know All About U depicting scenes of an Orwellian Britain, made an immediate impact through word of mouth. Making its radio debut as "The Hottest Record In The World Today" as well as "Single Of The Week" by BBC Radio 1's Zane Lowe it also received daytime play from Jo Whiley, becoming Radio 1's most played single by an unsigned artist. The track was also used for BBC Radio 1 TV advert In New Music We Trust.

Her next limited edition 7" single Don't Fart On My Heart also became "Single Of The Week" and "The Hottest Record In The World Today" on the Zane Lowe Show, with the award winning video named Best Video by The British Council for the Onedotzero Festival. Appearing in publications such as NME, Q, The Guardian, The Observer i-D, and Entertainment Weekly, she did her first tour supporting The Slits and performed live for Massive Attack's Meltdown (festival) at The Royal Festival Hall, appearing at the 2007 Glastonbury Festival and again in 2008 headlined by Jay-Z.

Noted for her sense of fashion and unpredictable antics during live shows, Ebony Bones! made her US debut in the summer of 2008 performing live in New York at the Barack Obama concert held at The McCarren Park Pool. She ended 2008 with a live performance at Transmusicales Festival in Rennes, France.

In April 2009, MTV News in New York announced the release of her anticipated debut Bone Of My Bones and previewed the US exclusive of her music video for The Muzik. Starring fans across the world, she is said to have been inspired by the idea of "an abstract collaboration with a collective of like-minded individuals all galvanized by music". The video is represented by 30 different directors from all across the globe, armed with nothing more than a camera phone or digicam and a lot of imagination. The Muzik quickly received daytime play on BBC Radio 1.

The debut album due for release summer 2009 was released in Japan mid June, impressively entering the iTunes album charts at no.10. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ebony+Bones%21">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.