Ebonylake is a symphonic avant-garde gothic chaotic black/death metal act from UK. Their style, to most people, would appear completelly horrendous. Think Elend on The Umbersun, mixed with Gorguts and Meshuggah (with a light sprinkle of Cradle of Filth or early Covenant), with more progression and style changes than either bands could combine. 

    The story goes that the music reflects the experiences of several members from a decade of living in a haunted house with poltergeists and the like, and this influence can definitely be heard.

     In 1997 Ebonylake recorded 'As Ghosts We Dance In Thrashing Seas', this recording quickly gained the attention of the underground Avant Garde scene for its furious brew of extreme metal and Avant-classical with elements of film score music. Employing unconventional structures and a claustrophobic and horrific atmosphere completed by a six-piece chant section, 'As Ghosts' soon gained a cult following. English label Cacophonous Records were quick to sign the band and intensive work then began on the debut release 'On The Eve Of The Grimly Inventive'. Sessions leading up to the recording were a furnace of artistic exploration with many reference points, including Oscar Wilde, Penderecki, Prokofiev and Poe to name but a few.
      
       Recorded in 1998 at Academy Studios in England the album was in stark contrast to the Metal scene of the time and was either celebrated for its sheer invention or attacked for its lack of conformity. It's anxious, nervous and desperate disposition, its stabbing schizophrenic and autistic personality was a hard pill to swallow. The fire burned with such intensity that it vanished as quickly as it appeared. A decade later and the paths of Ophelius and Mass cross once more and Ebonylake is reborn and the whispers turn to screams.........it is here. 

Discography
1998 As Ghosts We Dance in the Thrashing Seas Demo
1999 On the Eve of the Grimly Inventive LP
2011 In Swathes Of Brooding Light LP

http://www.facebook.com/#!/pages/Ebony-Lake/367992431606
http://www.myspace.com/ebonylakeofficialuk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ebonylake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.