Ebow (Real name: Ebru Düzgün; born February 8, 1990 in Munich) is a German rapper of Kurdish origin, who currently lives in Vienna. 

Ebow's grandparents came to Germany as guest workers, her mother, who had attended a grammar school in Turkey, did not follow them until the age of 17. Like her parents, Ebow is Alevi. Although her family is of Kurdish descent, only Turkish was spoken at home. She studied architecture at the University of Applied Sciences Munich and lived with her mother and grandmother in Munich's Westend.

She first rapped in Munich's Bahnhofsviertel, in laundromats, supermarkets and the tram, before performing on stages and taking part in festivals, such as the on3 festival of the Bavarian Radio in 2011,  the Sound of Munich Now Festival in 2012 or the Schamrock Festival of The Poets in 2014.

In the music program Heimatsound of the Bavarian Television in April 2015 she appeared with the songs Paradise and Vay. As blaqtea, she has been part of the trio Gaddafi Gals since 2016.

In 2010 she wrote and sang the title melody Ich habe Wanderlust (I Have Wanderlust) for the film documentary Daughters of the Awakening by Munich director Uli Bez, in which migrant women tell their lives in Germany, including Ebow and her mother.

With the self-produced half-hour video mixtape Habibi's Love and Wars (2012), Ebow created a style influenced by oriental sounds, mixed with electro, which she describes as "alternative hip-hop". For the first time, she packaged social reality into aggressive texts ranging from gender roles in the Turkish community, false patriotism to German arms exports. According to Taz, her song Waffenhymne should be read in response to M.I.A.'s Paper Planes. 

The music magazine Launchrampe introduced Ebow to the new season 9 bands and produced her music video Oriental Dollar.  In it, she describes "the feeling that creeps up on her when she watches the 'veiled women' from the Emirates shopping in Munich." Her album, titled Ebow, was released on November 22, 2013 on the indie label Disko B.

In 2014, she released the single Paramide with filmmaker and musician Mirza Odabaşı, the proceeds of which went to those in need in Kobane. She was also involved in his 2015 documentary Leiden-schafft, which also featured other well-known artists such as Chefket, Marteria and Eko Fresh.

On the Die Ärzte album Dunkel, released on September 24, 2021, Ebow has a guest part in the song Kerngeschäft. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/eBow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.