Eccentric Pendulum is a metal band formed in November 2008 owing to the amalgamation of musical Ideas exchanged by the founding members of the band --‐ Arun (ex Extinct Reflections), Vibhas( ex Spitfire), Ashish( ex Inner Sanctum, Spit) and Nikhil( ex Asylum). Having played with their previous bands for quite a while, the quartet aimed at composing songs which were inspired by various forms of music with no particular bias towards any genre/sub genre. While maintaining progressive metal as their prime focus, the band composes songs combining elements from jazz, fusion and ambient resulting in an unconventional musical concoction. 

The band gained respect and popularity in the local scene at quiet an early stage for their ability to engage their audiences and appeal to their intellectual side through the band’s live performances. In March 2009, the band released their debut EP titled “The Sculptor of Negative Emotions" at Bangalore's premier "All Original Music Fest" – Rock Ethos. The band’s intention to deliver a package of high artistic value lead to stunning cover art by American artist Alex Eckman Lawn. The EP saw buyers across the Indian Subcontinent and some parts of Europe and America. 

In August 2009, the band welcomed Faheem as their lead guitarist to help extend its musical boundaries into unmapped metal territories. Thus adding another dimension to the band’s sound. In September 2010, Arjun replaced Ashish on guitars as the latter fled to France for his higher education. 

Highlights of the band include winning and headlining at various college festivals and also sharing the stage with metal heavy weights such as Meshuggah, Textures, Amon Amarth, Tesseract, Enslaved and a host of killer Indian bands.

In August 2011, the band represented India in the Wacken Metal Battle at W:O:A in Germany and were very well received by their international audience. 
Full video for your viewing pleasure here (http://media.ndr.de/progressive/2011/0811/TV-20110811-1112-3901.hq.mp4)

Currently, the band has finished writing and recording their full length debut album - 'Winding the Optics' which is aimed at a September 2011 release. The album contains over 45 min of progressive metal written over a span of 2 years.

"If you like your metal equal parts modern and old school, be sure to check out the amazing Eccentric Pendulum - sinister progressions, vicious thrash riffs, carefully calculated prog, sweetly crafted melodies topped off with soaring guitar solos make this a powerful and intricate album you want to sit down with and chew over for a long time. Great stuff." - Keshav Dhar (Skyharbor) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/eccentric+pendulum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.