Signed to Just Music alongside alumni such as Jon Hopkins, Marconi Union, Leo Abrahams, Laki Mera  and Digitonal, Echaskech present a unique take on electronic music. The Hackney based duo (Dom Hoare & Andy Gillham) have surrounded themselves with an enviable array of electronic and acoustic equipment, experimenting for nearly 10 years under the name of Echaskech. During this time they've gorged on a mind boggling vista of sounds from classical to electro, rave through to drum and bass, IDM, ambient, house, techno and bass music.

Echaskech flirt with these multiple influences combining them into a unique, compelling amalgamation - a sound at times delicate and melancholic, at others epic and uplifting. They have collaborated, remixed and worked with the likes of Max Cooper, Jon Hopkins, James Yuill, Roots Manuva and Kraddy.

On 'Origin', their third album for Just Music, they have introduced new sonic sources including analogue hardware, live percussion, field recordings, piano plus bass and acoustic guitar – all underpinned with good old fashioned software synthesis and sound design.

'Origin' was created to be otherworldly yet organic in theme, to conjure up images of distant places alongside themes of exploration and habitation of new worlds. The results straddle multiple genres with a sound that refuses to be easily defined in general terms yet retains a distinct epic and melodic slant.  

At times it bristles with clarity, at others fizzes with warmth. Shiny, strident percussion accompanies atmospheric catchy hooks whilst tunes such as 'Anomie', 'Scanners' and 'Paper Scissors' mutate and twist delivering unexpected turns of mood as they progress.

Overall, it's an album of multi-faceted and varied hues - melodic, epic, cerebral (yet never overly obscure or complex) with a thoroughly unique and original mixture of musical styles.with a bit of Schnauss thrown in for good measure" Ben Mynott - Fluid Nation, Big Chill <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Echaskech">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.