Echosilence was formed in the beginning of the year 1996 on the ruins of the Estonian death-thrash metal group Decease. The main core brainpower behind the Decease’s music still remained together – Marek Kivi (guitars), Mart Karu (guitars) and Risto Mõtus (drums) had been playing together since 1993 and the teamplay and the co-composition of the songs worked fine but they were left without a bassplayer and a singer.
In the summer of 96 Echosilence recorded their first 4-track demo as a result of the new wave of ideas and also picked up Arian Levin, a talented violin-player to play fretless-bass. The bands music evolved into more technical, experimental and complex to jazz-influenced progressive metal. On the 26th of December 1996 the debut concert of the band took place in Rakvere, Estonia. In the August of 1997 the Echosilence released a new 9-track demo “... and sorrow” that got pretty nice feedback from the progressive metal community around the world. After the year full of the live performances and songwriting Echosilence recorded their first professional 4-track 30 minutes long instrumental high quality demo called “Eclectic Collaborations” that received even better reviews from the world. A song from that demo also appeared on the “Sun in my Hand” compilation released by Nebiula Productions (Malaysia).
In 2002 Arian Levin graduated from the Estonian Music Academy and had to pursue his professional career as a composer and unfortunately had no time for the experiments with the Echosilence. He was replaced by young talented fretless-master Kert Kirsimäe who already performed with the Echosilence before on some live. A 5-track demo was recorded before the line-up change featuring both Arian and Kert on the fretless-bass.
In 2003 the band decided to expirement with vocals and Kadri, a girl with a beautiful voice joined the band. 4 songs, with total running time of 30 minutes, were written and the mini-album, entitled “Distorted Horizon” will be released under the Nailboard Records, spring 2005. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Echosilence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.