facebook
Formed In: 2004
Hometown Location: Cuautitlan Itzcalli, Estado de México, México
Genre: Progressive Death Metal / Technical Metal / Synthesizers

Band Lineup
Martin Martínez >> All Guitar/Bass/Drums 
Jovany López Martinez >> Synthesizers
César del águila >> Vocals

Biography
Eclectic Spawn are a Mexican Project formed in 2004 and led by Multi-instrumentalist Martin Martinez (Xipe Totec, Yatrogeny), with the purpose of playing progressive death metal. In the first years of the band, each song had a different sound due to constant comings and goings of various vocalists, as well as constant riff changes. It seemed like every single song belonged to a different band. 
Eclectic Spawn put out their first release “Noosferic” in 2006 (Ablaze prods). Noosferic is a conceptual album that consists of four long songs with their respective chapters, following the same order in which many progressive rock bands tend to arrange their songs. The album covers the esoteric philosophy of the “fourth path”, which was written by Gurjdieff and Ouspensky. This philosophy has led many interviewers to label eclectic Spawn as “metal for intellectuals”. The guitar, drums and bass were all played by Martin Martinez, who can also be credited with the lyrics of the whole album. The vocals were done by Alejandro Melo, Antonio Contreras and Osvaldo A., with the consent of Martin Martinez. Gonzalo Becerril was also invited by Martin Martinez and played the synthesizers. 
Subsequently, the band recorded their second album “Fractalis” in 2007, but has not yet been released by a record label. This is once again a conceptual album, and it concerns the old concepts of Greek philosophers. On this album, Aldo Krilin, Alejandro Melo (Sabacthani) and César del Aguila collaborated with vocals. Gonzalo Becerril and Jovany López Martinez did their part on synthesizers. Yet again, Martin Martinez played all the instruments. 
Nowadays, Eclectic Spawn have been changing their sound continuously, transforming into a progressive power metal band. Their most recent release is entitled “panspermia”, recorded in 2012, reaching a more matured sound. Vocals are clearer, synthesizers have more virtuosity to them, and guitars solos are amazingly played. All this together makes a powerful album consisting of eight tracks that may send you to a cosmic trip. The concept of the album concerns Ufology and the possible terrestrial life brought by intelligent life forms since remote times, proved by ancient Mesoamerican, Babylonian and African cultures.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eclectic+Spawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.