There are a couple of active and inactive bands (see below) with this name:

ACTIVE BANDS:
1- Metal 'n' Roll / Power Metal band from Austria2- Heavy Power Metal band from Uruguay3- Progressive/Power Metal band from Italy  

1- Ecliptica was formed in Vienna in 2005  by Markus Winkler.

The sound of ECLIPTICA is defined in their musical roots, to point out the classical heavy metal of the 80ies as well as rhythm progressive elements from all decades. The main character of ECLIPTICA’s music is basically Power Metal, influenced by the sound of Queen, Maiden and Metallica not to name the mass of bands raised in the power metal genre of the last 10 years. ECLIPTICA’s song writing is situated between classical style features and the use of material from other genres.

ECLIPTICA was founded originally as a solo project by Markus Winkler, since mid 2005 with constant line up. In December 2006 Ecliptica had their debut in front of 400 maniacs supporting DEAD SOUL TRIBE. In April 2007 Ecliptica successfully released their Debut-EP “The Awakening” and presented it in front of 500 people at Planet Music Vienna. In Spring/Summer 2007 ECLITPICA won the “Metal Battle Austria 2007” Contest and therefore played a set at the world famous “WACKEN OPEN AIR” in Germany. They also got their chance to play at the biggest festival in Europe Donauinselfest 2007 and did their first show band acting at the Austrian BIG BROTHER AWARDS. Not to forget the support slot for the major US-Prog Metal gods SYMPHONY X. November 2007: After a Club tour Evelin Pieler quit the band and has been replaced by Elisabeth Fangmeyer. In January 2008 the band entered “Hinterhof Studios Vienna” to record their first full length album “IMPETUS”, which will be released in Austria and Germany on 17th May 2008. The release party for IMPETUS happened again at PLANET MUSIC Vienna in front of 500 people. After that Ecliptica played the Corinthian Festival “Strawberry Fields” and on July, 11th they opened the Vienna Show of IN EXTREMO, in front of 2000 people, very successfully. In September 2008 Bernie Scholz (guitar) and Elisabeth Fangmeyer (female vocals) left ECLIPTICA due to personal reasons. Van Alen followed on the guitar position; the female singer was not replaced for that moment. October 2008 Ecliptica were signed by the Italian label FRONTIERS RECORDS to release their debut album IMPETUS worldwide. In December 2008 IMPETUS was released in Europe and Australia and in February 2009 IMPETUS was released in Japan. Bass player Florian Thuer quit the band due to personal and private reasons. In May 2009 ECLIPTICA presented Maria Melendez and Sandra Urbanek as new female singers and Alexander Basstard, who already recorded the Awakening EP with Ecliptica, as new bass player. 

In 2011 the new album JOURNEY SATURNINE was recorded at the WildoneMusic Studios and mastered at the FINNVOX studios. On December 5th ECLIPTICA released the first single to the upcoming album and reached #3 in the Austrian Rock Itunes Charts and #58 in the Austrian general iTunes charts. On January 20th 2012 the album JOURNEY SATURNINE was released. In late 2012 bass player Alexander left the band and was replaced by Petra "Grooves" Schuhmayer.

ECLIPTICA's third Album ECLIPTIFIED will be released on the 15th of January 2016.

Discography:
The Awakening - 2007 (EP)
Impetus - 2008
Journey Saturnine - 2012
Impetus (reissue) - 2013
Ecliptified - 2016

Line-up:
- Tom Tieber: Vocals 
- Sandra Urbanek: Vocals
- Van Alen: Guitars 
- Markus Winkler: Guitars 
- Petra "Grooves" Schuhmayer: Bass
- Roman Daucher: Drums

INACTIVE BANDS:
1- Belgian Black Metal band (split up in 2001)2- Swedish Metal Band (renamed to "Assailant")3- Bulgarian Metal Band (aka "Stormblast", "Erotic Nightmare", split up in 2003)

1- Ecliptica was a Belgian Black Metal band formed as a Death Metal band in 1994 in Mortsel, Antwerp.
Over the years, the band had many line-up changes and has counted many of today's most established artists in the Belgian Extreme Metal underground scene in there ranks.
They early went from Death Metal to Black Metal and in 1997 there first release 'Mistige Morge'  was a raw Black Metal demo.
In 1998, 'MCMXCIX' was released & in 1999 'Eclectica'.
They split up in 2001and it's members formed Gurthang.

Last known line-up:
Arne Vandenhoeck (Arneriach) - Vocals (Herfst, Gurthang, Gorath (Bel), Marche Funèbre, Mortifer (Bel))
Ian van Gemeren (Brek) - Guitar (Anaemica, Axamenta, Gurthang, In-quest, Suhrim, Aeons of Old, Shadow's Veil)
Johan Dilliën (Count Elyte Empiriace) - Bass (Battalion, Aeons of Old)
Philip Vanmaresnille (Arez Gurthang) - Guitar (Gurthang, Bütcher)
Tom Van Oosterwijck (Myvatn) - Drums (Battalion, Axamenta, Gurthang)
Yves Huts (Enuresor) - Keyboard (Axamenta, Gurthang, Epica (Nld) / Sahara Dust)
Former/past member(s)
Vocals :
Kenny Crauwels aka Lord Caldron (Also Guitar) (Opus Nocturnales)

Guitar :
Bastiaan Vonckx aka Gorthaur
Bert Vandemeulebroek aka Mordred (Sfagnum, Aeons of Old)
Bastiaan (Theudho)
Peter Lodewijckx aka Anjelen Lode) (Avatar (Bel), Silent Secrets, Sensor Norn)
Tony Cools (Gurthang)

Keyboards :
Christophe Janssens aka Arragon (Sfagnum)
Kurt Joly
Lesley-Ann Poppe (Opus Nocturnales)

Drums :
Tim Nijs aka Cassiël (Opus Nocturnales, Silent Secrets, Sfagnum) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ecliptica">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.