Voldamares: Founded in the Fall of 1999 by Voldamares for the express purpose of turning thought and philosophy to sound, Canada’s Eclipse Eternal made their entrance into the underground Black Metal scene via a live-off-the-floor rendition of their song“The King”, which was released on a compilation by Bloodbucket Productions in 2002. Inspired by the violent atmospheres created bands such as Mayhem, Satyricon, and Immortal, the band’s early music was filled with chaos and raw aggression. Within a year, the band began work on their first full-length CD, Reign of the Unholy Blackened Empire. The album would take two years to create and be over an hour of Epic Symphonic Black Metal. It was recorded/mixed at Eclipse Studios by Glen Drover (King Diamond, Megadeth) and mastered by Andy Laroque (King Diamond). Released by Galy Records in 2004, the album received positive reviews around the globe.

While the band’s reputation gained momentum through multiple live performances (including their debut performance at the Northern Lights Festival, and opening for multiple international bands such as Dimmu Borgir and Behemoth), Eclipse Eternal focused their creative energies upon writing their most highly regarded album to date, Übermensch: Evolution Beyond The Species. Mixed at Studio Fredman by Fredrik Nordström (Dimmu Borgir, Zyclon, Old Man’s Child) the album displayed a marked escalation in overall complexity, atmosphere and viciousness. Upon release, the album received rave reviews by both the press and their ever-growing fanbase. To promote this release, Eclipse Eternal would then spend four years performing their live rituals alongside such well-respected bands as Mayhem, Satyricon, Immortal, Watain, Chthonic, Dark Funeral, Averse Sefira, Absu, Enslaved, and many more.

For its first non-live official video, the band teamed up with Dark Frames Pictures to create a rich, HD video for the nightmarish, seven-minute epic, “The Dragon Has Come to Blot Out the Stars.” Shot both on location and in studio, and featuring prosthetic make-up, numerous extras, buckets of blood, three band members being burned at the stake, it was an enormous undertaking garnering thousands of views online. During this four-year period following Übermensch, a thought gestated. It grew and evolved. The thought became sound and a new album was born.

In late 2011, Eclipse Eternal signed with Archaic North Records, who released the band’s third full-length album in January 2012: The Essence of Hopelessness. Recorded once again at Glen Drover’s Eclipse Studios, Eclipse Eternal has mixed the vicious, harsh nature of their previous album with an emotional intensity that is rarely seen in current Black Metal. They have delved into their innermost suffering and wrenched forth an album that is both poignant and memorable. From cold atmospheres to absolute chaos, from acoustic and spoken word interludes to ripping shredding, this album is as brutal as it is stirring. With lyrics swinging from Odes to ancient Pagan times to suicide to murder most foul, Eclipse Eternal holds back nothing on this third full-length album.

Following the release and promotion of The Essence of Hopelessness, Eclipse Eternal began writing again for their next record. And, with Ax Media Studios, filmed a new video for the disturbed “Murder…Suicide.”Additionally, the band contributed a cover of “Crossing the 45thParallel” (Woods of Yypres) for the David Gold/Woods of Yypres tribute album, Heart of Gold, as well as performing the song at the memorial concert.

Joining Romania’s Negură Bunget for their first North American tour in spring of 2012, Eclipse Eternal played twenty-eight shows throughout much of Canada and the USA, expanding their fanbase as well as broadening themselves as live performers. With the experience of the Transylvanian Legacy Tour 2012 in mind, Eclipse Eternal are focusing on assembling a 2013 European tour, and are continuing to write for their fourth album.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eclipse+Eternal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.