1) ECLIPTIC. was created in 1999 by Raul Mejia and Juan Carlos Navarro heavily induced by their love to psychedelic music from the older days.   Since then, it's been over 5 years that these boys have been working on their very own groove and funky rythms that uplift every party's vibe, fulfilling the danceflors with positive energy.   Their unique sound has made thousands and thousands dance in the sunny mornings and afternoons in Mexico's most important festivals and events, and has been exported to several countries already, including Brazil's biggest New Year's event UNIVERSO PARALELLO.

Nevertheless,ECLIPTIC´s story is about to shift and hit the world, as they are in their lab cookin' some juicy surprises for 2005...

For starters we have 2 truly original grooverides appearing in MAIA RECORD's new release: HECHO EN MÈXICO. This compilation also showcases exclusive and unreleased creations from the most talented and respected suspects around, such as the worldwide known D-TEK, MEXICAN TRANCE MAFIA, THE MELOVSKYS, SHARIGRAMA, KAMIKAZE and more!

Another brilliant track will appear on the following volume of MAIA RECORD's collection of GEMSTONE releases:   OBSIDIAN, which is still in MAIA Headquarter´s ovens.

  And, if this isn't enough, their debut album will be released later this year... sooner than you could think!!

So folks, keep an eye on ECLIPTIC., they've got the groove!

To book ECLIPTIC.:

info@maia.com.mx or +52 55 52648111 and +52 55 55844616 

2) Ecliptic is a US black metal act formed in 1998 by Markus Hampel (guitar/vocals) and Sidney Mortensen (drums/percussion), and As of Yet Unknown is their brand new CD release. Rounding out the line-up for the album is lead guitarist Virgil Snyder and bassist Augustus Madder. As of Yet Unknown is melodic and quite progressive, the band seemingly quite influenced by acts such as Enslaved, Opeth, Emperor, as well as early Metallica. Though black metal is pretty close to what they are accomplishing here, it's hard to categorize the band, as there's plenty of death metal, thrash, and progressive metal elements going on as well. A tune like "Limitations" has plenty of well placed riffs and effective vocal shrieks, while "The Five Ways" is classic sounding Norwegian styled black metal through and through. On "Sleep of Reason" the band mix brutal thrash and death metal riffs into their pummeling attack, and "Emergence" features a wide assortment of progressive tendencies, including some gorgeous acoustic guitar work. In fact, Ecliptic splatter bits of acoustic guitar throughout the CD, and it adds a great element to their already varied sound. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ecliptic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.