MANCAN (vocals, guitars) is the founder leader of Ecnephias. The first line up of ECNEPHIAS (death black metal band from Potenza, Italy) was formed in 1996 by Mancan, Atlos, Akeron and Namgyal. Since that date the lucanian musicians have played heavy metal for 10 years, with other bands and projects, leaving no trace of the first act. At the end of 2005, with Valkiria and Tinco, Mancan refounded Ecnephias and realized "November", the official debut mcd of the band (reviews and songs downloadable by this site). At the end of 2006, as for "November", after a year of hard work, "Dominium Noctis" - the first full lenght album - was finally mastered by Mauro Andreolli! It contains 11 tracks of death and doom metal with black, folk and horror influences. This work represents the pride, the talent and the extraordinary personality of the band. "Dominium Noctis" (played and recorded by Mancan, Atlos and Akeron) was produced by Nekromantik Records and Necrotorture Agency (Masterpiece Distribution). Ecnephias members interpret extreme metal like exploration of the unconscious, of the orrid, of the fantastic and the mythical one, a musical travel in the popular traditions of the ancient lands of Europe. However, Ecnephias members always say that their metal act is not part of "X" or "Y" scene. All the musicians in Ecnephias have 10 years of experience in studio albums and live contexts. The most important festival in which Mancan has played with other hm bands is the Agglutination Metal Festival, in South Italy, for two times (1997 and 2001), with Overkill, White Skull, Ancient, Kiko Loureiro, Schizo, Natron, Glacial Fear and others.  Mancan has also recorded, between 2005 and 2006, all the growls and all the clean vocals on "Blood on Blood" and "Of dreams and pain" of his friend Valkiria, except for the black screams performed by Valkiria himself. The Ecnephias frontman is "the man" behind SEAS OF SORCERY, a melodic death metal studio project with heavy and thrash influences, and ABBAS TAETER, an old school black metal project with medieval music influences and gregorian chants in which his versatile vocal work ranges from down tuned clean voices, death growls, screams and experimental folk voices. "Infernalia" (produced and printed in limited version by Fauno Extreme Art Prod., Mancan personal label) is the first album recorded by  Abbas Taeter, pure italian black art, with some guest musicians: Cabal Dark Moon (Obscure Devotion), Valkiria and Ecnephias. Between 2005 and 2008 Ecnephias have toured South Italy playing with Obscure Devotion, Malvento, Nefertum, Infernal Angels, Damned Creation, 3RD and others, supporting Frostmoon Eclipse in Potenza, Opera IX in Avellino, the legendary american thrashers Exodus in Manduria and playing as headliner in Potenza, Bari, Taranto - (Death Attack) supported by the apulian bands Evillive and Terremoto - and in Avellino (Ist Totem Camp Indian Bikers MC). To remember, finally, the confirmations in the Agglutination Festival XV (with Udo, Vader, Extrema and Forgotten Tomb + others) and in the Total Metal Festival 2009 (with Finntroll, Malevolent Creation, Vomitory, Pino Scotto + others). In the summer's end of 2008  Atlos, Akeron and Namgyal parted ways with Ecnephias after three years filled with successful live performances and cd recordings. The new band line-up, after this split, was: Mancan (vocals, guitars), Sicarius Inferni (keyboards and piano), Toru (bass, ex-Infernal Angels) and the excellent drummer Antonio Donadeo (Exhumer, Traitor, Necrotorture, Stench of Dismemberment, Stillness Blade and ex tour-session for Vital Remains and Undertakers). “Haereticus” (Ep), recorded in the October of 2008 and  produced by Nekromantik Records, Fauno E.A. Prod. and Necrotorture Agency (Masterpiece Distribution),  was the new great masterpiece!  It contains 7 tracks of death black metal with folk, chants and opera influences. The music of Ecnephias is absolutely personal now: it cannot be compared to other bands. In the beginning of the spring season of 2009 Ecnephias communicate that the band is at work on new tracks for the next powerful album and that a new great band logo is finally done by Martabakrull and Mancan. A new line-up is announced in 2009, because of the leaving of Toru and Antonio Donadeo: Aran Morion (bass), Devians (guitars, live) and Meidum (drums, live) are the new comrades of Mancan and Sicarius Inferni. In September 2009 Ecnephias signs an important deal with Code666 Records, the prestigious italian label, world landmark for a certain type of extreme avant-gardists sound. Following a meeting among the members of Ecnephias, the original line up is reconstituted with Atlos and Akeron for the new album, to guarantee to the best the future appointments of the band, live and studio.

"Our music, as all the other arts, is an expression form of internal realities, suggestions and visions. It doesn't want to give a message and doesn't point out a road to follow. It’s art, crazy, terrible, heretical but art, simply, and representation as a painting by “magister” Goya or a film by Dario Argento. Ecnephias sentences every type of censorship towards the “heavy metal”: it is ignorance and bigot moralism!" - Ecnephias <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ecnephias">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.