Edward Anderson (born in 1970) is a hip-hop artist from Boston, Massachusetts, United States, better known by his stage names Edo G and Ed O.G.. Although not widely known in the mainstream, Edo G has a cult following in Boston, and an international fanbase.

Born in Roxbury—a rough, predominantly black neighborhood in Boston, Massachusetts. Anderson then known as Edo Rock started his career in the late 1980s at age 15, in a crew called F.T.I. (Fresh To Impress). They had a song called "Suzi Q" on "Boston Goes Def!" Vinyl LP compilation released in 1986. Three years later, with the help of New York's legendary Awesome 2 duo (Teddy Ted and Special K) formed Edo G and Da Bulldogs in late 1989. He released his first album in 1991 with his group Da Bulldogs, titled Life of a Kid in the Ghetto. The album included the song "Be a Father to Your Child," which received airplay on local Boston radio stations, and "I Got To Have It", which was sampled later by Mary J. Blige on the track "Ooh!". The group was dropped from Mercury Records in 1993.

Edo G has subsequently gone on to release four solo albums and two EPs, toured around the world, and worked with other artists including Pete Rock, DJ Premier, RZA, KRS-One, Common, Black Thought of The Roots, and Masta Ace.

On his solo album The Truth Hurts, he combined with DJ Premier and Pete Rock; "Wishful Thinking" was a sequel of his first solo performance. The connection with Rock turned into a partnership for the album My Own Worst Enemy. One of the album's songs, "Wishing" (featuring Masta Ace), was featured on The Boondocks in episode 9, Return of the King.

In 2005, Edo G started a new group called Special Teamz with fellow Boston rappers Jaysaun (of Kreators) and Slaine (of La Coka Nostra). They released a mixtape on November 11, 2005 entitled The Mixtape. Special Teamz released the album, Stereotypez, on September 25, 2007, which featured production from Pete Rock, DJ Premier, and specialist producer Marco Polo, who had previously collaborated with Jake One and Ill Bill. Appearances on the album included Buckshot and Sean Price of the Boot Camp Click, Ill Bill, Akrobtik, and Devin the Dude.

Edo G proceeded to work on a new album with Masta Ace. The first single, titled "Little Young" was released via Myspace. The album was scheduled for release in October 2009, but the release was delayed by a cease-and-desist order from A&E Television Networks, which required a complete revision of the album cover artwork and design[why?].

Edo G is also a member of the Boston hip hop group 4Peace along with Twice Thou, Wyatt Jackson, and DQuest. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ed+O.G.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.