Eddy Current Suppression Ring is a Melbourne-based Australian rock group which rose to prominence in 2008.

The band formed in 2003 when several band members started jamming at a  vinyl pressing plant Christmas party, where they worked. They encouraged now-lead singer Brendan Suppression (real name Brendan Huntly) to ad-lib into a tape recorder. The subsequent tape prompted the band’s first recording, which produced a 7-inch single with A-side Get Up Morning.

The band's name derived from members recalling another employee at the pressing plant stating he had to fix the eddy current suppression ring - a copper ring around a transformer which subdues eddy currents.

The band's sound is said to have been influenced by bands such as The Troggs, The Standells, X and The Pagans. Reference has also been made to the band’s Australian delivery, both vocally and musically. In 2006, Eddy Current Suppression Ring released their first full-length recording, an eponymous album released to critical acclaim.

In May 2008, the band released its second CD, Primary Colours. Within three weeks it had sold more than 2,000 copies, already more than their debut album and was sitting at number 6 on the ARIA charts. In September 2008, Primary Colours was nominated in the Best Rock Album category for the 2008 ARIA Awards. In October, it was nominated for the J-Award, as a candidate for the Triple J Australian album of the year. In November 2008, Primary Colours was named best independent hard rock/punk album at the Jagermeister AIR (Australian Independent Record Labels Association) Awards held at Melbourne's Corner Hotel. In March 2009, the band won the $30,000 Australian Music Prize for Primary Colours.

Their third album, Rush to Relax was released by Goner Records in early 2010.

Their fourth album, All in Good Time was released in late 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eddy+Current+Suppression+Ring">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.