Bleeding Tide project started in december 2004, with the meeting of two perfect unknown guys ( Marcello Lega and Riccardo Lovotti) at the italian music festival TENDENZE in piacenza . Speaking about their musical preferences , they discovered a common passion for extreme metal..precisely for death metal Few days after Marcello ( lead/ rithm guitars) and Riccardo ( drums) starter to look for other components. Suddenly Marco Benedetti ( rithm/ lead guitars ) and Michele Cavalli ( bass ) reply to the quest, and then they started to play togheter. Few months later the band was looking for the last component: the singer. . When Riccardos brother , Filippo, reply , adn the band was ultimated. Bleeding Tide created a personal sound that follows great and famous bands like, Obituary, Death, and Sepultura ( in the first formation..!) and more Unfortunately Filippo leaved B.T. and Marco bracciale replaced him the singing style changed from growling to screaming.. They started to play in their city ( Piacenza) in the underground scene. In july 2005 their first cd_demo called I.S.E.T. was registered at mofo studio , it dures 17.00 minutes , contains 5 songs . In september 2005 they win a selection for open to TENDENZE music festival in PC, and open to bands like NECRODEATH, RAW POWER and CRIPPLE BASTARD. Unfortunately the festival was posticipated because there was bad weather. At the moment Bleeding Tide have changed name in EDEMA, and in 2006 they've registered a new demo (( criosota)) at elfo studio, 3 songs for a total of 16 minutes.. in summer 2007 edema opened the inpiccì festival day 2 with EXTREMA , in winter 2007 edema opened to slowmotion apocalypse @ for sale club, and in summer 2008 edema opened to NECRODEATH in tendenze festival '08! the band is still hard-working on the upcoming full-lenght more nevrotic and furios than the whole other releases! if you've enjoyed our noise.. stay tuned, because DEFAULT. will be out for Punishment 18 records in september 10th 2009 !!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Edema">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.