Edenbridge is a symphonic metal band from Austria which was founded as a studio-project by guitarist/keyboardist Lanvall, bassist Kurt Bednarsky, and vocalist Sabine Edelsbacher in 1998. With the addition of drummer Roland Navratil the line-up was completed for the production of their debut album Sunrise In Eden. Current members are Sabine Edelsbacher (vocals), Lanvall (guitars, keyboards), Frank Bindig (bass), Dominik Sebastian (guitars), and Max Pointner (drums). Former members include Kurt Bednarsky (bass), Georg Edelmann (guitars), Andreas Eibler (guitars), Martin Mayr (guitars), Robert Schoenleitner (guitars), and Sebastian Lanser (drums).

  
1999

... the recording of Sunrise In Eden took place in the Seagull Music Studio belonging to sound magician Gandalf. In the same year Edenbridge signed a worldwide deal with the German label Massacre Records.

  
2000

... the CD was mixed in the House of Audio studios (Vanden Plas, Pink Cream 69, D.C. Cooper, Axxis) by Dennis Ward (Pink Cream 69). The impressive CD artwork was created by Markus Meyer, who also painted two Nightwish album covers. The album was released on the 25th of September. In February, Georg Edelmann joined the band as a second guitar player. In November/December Edenbridge supported their label mates Axxis and Pink Cream 69 on a European tour.
  

2001

... Georg Edelmann left the band in January for other prospects and was replaced by Andreas Eibler. Sunrise in Eden was released in all important markets of the world (Japan, Korea, Taiwan, South America, North America).

In July, recording began for the second CD Arcana in the House of Audio studios in Germany. In August "Arcana" was mixed by Dennis Ward and was released on the 19th of November in Europe.

  
2002

In May, Edenbridge toured Europe for 3 weeks together with Metalium (Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden). Right after the band flew to Seoul, Korea to play in the "International Busan Rock Festival" in front of 20.000 fans as a co-headliner with Sinergy. Kurt Bednarsky left the band right after the tour. Andreas Oberhauser replaced him for 2 shows during the summer. A financial crisis caused the scheduled tour of Brazil to be canceled at the last moment. In November, the 3rd album "Aphelion" was recorded in the House of Audio Studios with Dennis Ward again providing the mixing.

  
2003

Edenbridge was on European triple headliners tour together with Trail of Tears and Sirenia (Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands, Belgium, Spain). They also performed at the Summer Breeze Festival with Mike Koren on bass.
  

2004

Edenbridge was well received when for the first time they played in Russia. The live album "A Livetime in Eden" with a bonus DVD was released in August. The 4th studio album "Shine" was recorded in Lanvall's Farpoint Station studio and again in the House of Audio studio with Dennis Ward providing the mixing. The band's UK debut was in September with a show at the legendary Bloodstock festival in Derby, England. The album "Shine" was released in October followed by the single of the title track. Guitar player Andreas Eibler left the band.

  
2005

Edenbridge was supporting Angra on their European tour together with Manticora. The band played concerts in Italy, Switzerland, Spain, France, and Belgium. 2nd guitarist Martin Mayr joined them for live shows. In October, the band began recording their 5th studio album "The Grand Design" at "Farpoint Station Studio".

  
2006

"The Grand Design" was mixed at "Thin Ice Studio"/England by Karl Groom (Threshold) and was recorded at Farpoint Station (Austria) by Frank Pitters. In April, the single "For Your Eyes Only" was released (cover version of the James Bond title song). In May, the album "The Grand Design" was released.


2007

Guitarist Robert Schoenleitner left the band and was replaced by Dominik Sebastian from Thirdmoon. Drummer Roland Navratil left the band and was replaced by Sebastian Lanser, but soon he was replaced by Max Pointner, former member of In Slumber and Legacy of Hate.


Discography:

Sunrise In Eden (2000)
Arcana (2001)
Aphelion (2003)
A Livetime In Eden (2004)
Shine (2004)
For Your Eyes Only - EP (2006)
The Grand Design (2006)
My Earth Dream (2008)
Live Earth Dream (2009)
Solitaire (2010)
The Bonding (2013)


Official site: www.edenbridge.org <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Edenbridge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.