Eden xo (born Jessica Eden Malakouti on March 30, 1989 in Anaheim, CA) is an American singer-songwriter, video director, dancer, creative director, producer, and occasional actress. Her debut single, Too Cool To Dance, was released on June 2, 2014. Her second single, The Weekend, was released on February 17, 2015. She has released music in the band Shut Up Stella, under her real name Jessie Malakouti, and through solo project Jessie and the Toy Boys from 2010 to 2013.

At age 16, Malakouti emancipated herself from her parents, graduated high school two years early, and moved to Hollywood to pursue her show business dreams. Soon after arriving in Hollywood, Malakouti started an all girl punk rock band called Shut Up Stella, which signed with Epic Records in 2006. Shut Up Stella's music appeared in a variety of media between 2007–2008; "Watch Me Rain" was featured in MTV's "Sweet 16 The Movie" and "Welcome to My Party" appeared in the 2008 films "Girl Positive" and Baby Mama. On March 27, 2008 Shut Up Stella was dropped by Epic and Malakouti decided to go solo.

In 2008 Malakouti's songs "Trash Me" and "Outsider" appeared in episodes of MTV's The Hills. The songs were also independently self-released as music videos and digital downloads. In December 2008 Malakouti signed a publishing deal with EMI and spent two years in London working on dance music with Fred Falke as well as writing for UK production house Xenomania. The result of this time was a single called "Standing Up for The Lonely" which was released on British dance label Ministry of Sound. "Standing Up For The Lonely" also appeared in The Annual 2010 (2009,Ministry of Sound) and Dance Nation 2 (2009, Ministry of Sound) compilation albums.

Jessie and the Toy Boys was launched in March 2010 with the first single "Push It" being released in February 2011 which peaked at 7 on the Billboard dance chart. As well as "Push It", on the same day, "Valentine" and "We Own The Night" were also released. These songs were used by The CW Network in their general promos for the network, as well as the station's written "motto" in their station promos. In June 2011, Jessie and the Toy Boys released an EP titled, Show Me Your Tan Lines, and Malakouti made her network television debut on the Conan O'Brien Show. During this time, Jessie and the Toy Boys was one of the opening acts during Britney Spears' sixth concert tour, the Femme Fatale Tour. During this time she recorded her next single, Let's Get Naughty which was released in October 2011 and performed on Femme Fatale Tour. Malakouti was a main stage act alongside Kaskade, Rusko, Steve Aoki, and Avicii on the Identity Festival. Jessie and the Toy Boys' debut album This Is How Rumours Start was due out in early 2012 but has failed to surface. Although there was no album release, Malakouti released a few YouTube videos of unreleased songs during 2012 as well as a music video for On With My Bad Self but the song was later not released.

On May 2013 Malakouti released a music video for what was originally a Toy Boys song "White Girl Wasted" as "Jessie Malakouti." This sparked rumors that she would no longer be releasing music under the name Jessie and the Toy Boys. On September 27, 2013, Malakouti uploaded a picture via her Facebook page confirming that she had signed a new recording contract with Virgin Records.

On June 2, 2014, Malakouti released her debut single under the name "Eden xo", titled "Too Cool to Dance". An accompanying "homemade GIF video was released the same day as the song premiered on iTunes. On July 23, a lyric video to the song was released onto Eden xo's official Vevo channel and an accompanying audio video was released on August 14. Throughout August and September, Eden xo released a series of remixes of "Too Cool to Dance" on her SoundCloud page. Eden xo released the official music video for "Too Cool to Dance" on September 17, 2014 on VEVO. "Too Cool To Dance" was featured in 2014's 4th annual National Dance Day. So You Think You Can Dance producer and judge Nigel Lythgoe choreographed a special routine to the song and encouraged the public to submit their own dance videos performing the routine. "Too Cool To Dance" recieved praise from Billboard, calling it one of "Tomorrow's Hits" and it also appeared on the American version of Now That's What I Call Music 52 as one of their "Now What's Next" bonus tracks. On February 16, 2015, Eden xo debuted her next single, titled "The Weekend", on JustJared. Later that day, her official Vevo account uploaded live versions of "Too Cool to Dance" and "The Weekend", revealing that she was their next Vevo DSCVR artist. "The Weekend" was then made available for purchase on iTunes and Amazon on February 17, 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eden+xo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.