There are over 10 artists with the name Eden:

1. Jonathon Ng (born 23 December 1995), better known by his stage name EDEN is an Irish electronic music producer and singer-songwriter based in Dublin. He formerly operated as The Eden Project, an alias that was discontinued in 2015. Ng's work as The Eden Project featured more conventional styles of electronic dance music such as dubstep and drum and bass, while EDEN saw him venturing into a more indie pop style.

Ng released over 40 tracks as The Eden Project including 6 EPs, as well as several remixes. As EDEN, he launched his own record label, known as MCMXCV, on which his debut EP End Credits was released. His second EP, i think you think too much of me, was released in August 2016 and became his first charting music, debuting at No. 43 on the Irish Albums Chart.

http://iameden.eu/

2.   Eden Alene, an Israeli singer.

Eden Alene (Hebrew: עדן אלנה‎; Amharic: ኤደን አለነ; born 7 May 2000), often credited as only Eden, is an Israeli singer of Ethiopian-Jewish descent. Having won the seventh season of the singing competition HaKokhav HaBa, she was set to represent Israel in the Eurovision Song Contest 2020, with her song "Feker Libi", planned to be held in Rotterdam, Netherlands. After this edition of the contest had been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, she was internally chosen to represent Israel in the Eurovision Song Contest 2021, this time with the song "Set Me Free".

3. -  Eden. Producer from North London. Released debut EP 'The Feeling' in 2012. For all enquiries: josh@lilaclondon.com. https://soundcloud.com/edenuk

4. - A metal band from Blackpool, England with evil riffs and a general evil feel. Chaos brews with these chaps.

5. - A South African boy band, singing in both English and Afrikaans.

6. - Australia's Eden charted a territory of gothic lavishly expressive music with dark lyrical content and beautifully constructed instrumentation. 
Original member Pieter Bourke has gone on to collaborate with Lisa Gerrard (of Dead Can Dance) on her solo albums, while Eden founder Seán Bowley has embarked on a solo career.

So the Australian band Eden essentially is singer/songwriter Seán Bowley. The band is a vehicle through which he projects his songwriting and exploration of creative visions. Seán says that his songs are his perceptive diary. 
"At the end of the day, I would simply like to give something back for all that I've received."

Eden's music is rather atmospheric, and is influenced by a wide variety of styles. Traces of psychedelic rock, Arabic and Indian music form an exotic and moody athmosphere. 
More info: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eden_(Australian_band)

7. - German outfit Eden was founded in 1977, when three members of the "Freie christliche Jugendgemeinschaft" decided to form a band; one of the first christian progressive rock bands in Germany.
Their music can be described as an amalgamation of symphonic and folk progressive rock, with Christian overtones and occasional gospel-like sections. 
Eden's debut album "Erwartung", released in 1978, is considered a fantastic album by progressive music fans, and an essential album in any symphonic/folk prog fan's collection.
More information on the band can be found here: http://www.progarchives.com/artist.asp?id=2106

8. - A four-member RnB-influenced vocal group who represented Israel in the 1999 Eurovision Song Contest with the song "Yom Huledet" ("Happy Birthday").

9. - A Belgian female rock band, centered around the vocals of Roos Van Acker and Sofie Buyck. 
After a few years of rehearsals under the name "The Sugarbrides", their debut single was the well-received song "My Boat" in 1996.
The band Eden broke through after a three-year-long period of deliberation, with the album "Seafood".
This debut album was preceded by the single "Star", which got a lot of attention through the accompanying video, in which the two female singers basically slaughter a Japanese sushi-lady. The music on the album still contained short and catchy pop-rock tunes, although the lyrics were a little more naughty than with The Sugarbrides. 

Roos van Acker also got involved in activities as a VJ for the Belgian music channel TMF and radioshowhost on Studio Brussel. In October 2000, she announced herself leaving the band, citing "lack of time" and some differences of opinion about the direction the band was heading in. The other members, however, declared they'll continue with Eden.  

Bandmembers :
- Roos Van Acker - Vocals (until October 2000)
- Sofie Buyck - Vocals
- Tyl Dekeyser - Guitar
- Mario Rombaut - Guitar
- Lieven van Hyfte - Bass
- Philip Madou - Drums

10. - A German gothic rock band, formed in 2006.

11. - A Welsh language three-piece female vocal group.

12. - A Spanish power metal band

13. - A modern rock / alternative rock band from Minneapolis, MN.
Band Members:
Chris Clark - Bass, Lead Vocals
Danny Fromm - Guitar, Vocals
Johnny Capello - Guitar, Vocals
Adam Szczepaniak - Drums
Sarah Olson - Keyboard

14.  A Christian metal band

See and hear more at: 
www.edentheband.com

15.   Industrial rock band from Pennsylvania.

Members: Brian Ashland, Brandon Skylar, James Schin, Lisa Mansour, Danielle DuBois.

EDEN began as a story, created by Brian Ashland of Shadow Gallery fame, that depicts a re-imagining of humanity’s origins. The main character of the story, Eden, is a mysterious and alluring entity that helped shape the tides of history.

Eden is embodied in this musical adaption, fronting a group of seasoned musicians whose music can scarcely be described in simple terms. Some buzzwords typically associated with the act include: Industrial, Electronic, Avant-Garde, Atmospheric, etc.

Eden’s live show is one of visual and aural captivation. Participants will find themselves unable to look away and craving more upon its point of departure.

Eden leads the chaos and beauty with her blend of fierce power and magnetism, setting the tone from one entrancing moment to the next. Bewitched and ensnared are those who experience her charisma and the charm of her words.

The tribal-esque rhythms synthesized by drummer James Schin and the electrifying pulse of bassist Lisa Mansour compels the listener into motion and playfully manipulates the ebb and flow of energy in the room.

Marrying to those rhythms, guitarist Brandon Skylar churns out percussive guitar lines to further ignite the auditory intensity. Breathing an atmosphere of wonder is Brian Ashland, who uses all the knowledge and tools a professional guitarist has in his arsenal to color the music with a swatch of ethereal melody. Affectionately referred to as “Beauty and the Beast”, Brian and Brandon play in perfect complement.

The lyrical content of EDEN consists of elements of the story. It tells of the dark side of humanity, their fascination with the spiritual, and their burning desire to know “Why…”

For more details on EDEN, visit her at www.edens.world

16.   South Korean producer and singer-songwriter.

EDEN (Hangeul: 이든) is a South Korean producer and singer-songwriter. He made his debut in 2017 with the collaborative single "Urban Hymns" with Kwon Jin Ah and fellow label-mate Babylon. EDEN has worked for KQ Entertainment and as a result, became acquainted with ATEEZ since their pre-debut days (about 2-3 years). EDEN personally produced ATEEZ's debut album's title song himself. 
EDEN has started a music activity in hopes of bringing out the charms and talent of the singers he collaborates with. Every month on the 14th (6 PM), a new song is released.

17.  Music unit from  idol game Ensemble Stars!!

Eden is affiliated with Cosmic Production. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.