Edge of Paradise might be a new band, but when your debut album includes the rhythm section of bassist Tony Franklin (Blue Murder, The Firm) and drummer Gregg Bissonette (David Lee Roth Band), you know you're already in great shape. Now add the powerhouse vocals of Margarita Monet and Dave Bates' towering guitars and you have yourself a record essential to any fan of melodic metal.

   Formed by Monet and Bates in 2011, Edge of Paradise released 'Mask,' an album chockfull of industrial-tinged metal coupled with soaring vocal hooks.  Bates collaborated with former McAuley Schenker Group and current Survivor vocalist Robin McAuley on some of the record's material. An EP,  'Perfect Shade of Black' was released in 2013. 

Edge of Paradise's second album, 'Immortal Waltz', was released on May 22, 2015 via Pure Steel Records and Soulfood. The album was produced and mixed by Michael Wagener, the album cover art was created by Timo Wuerz, and the music videos for the singles "'In a Dream" and " "'Rise for the Fallen" premiered via the magazine Revolver. The album was voted album of the week by Revolver's readers.

Edge of Paradise's third release, the EP 'Alive', was released March 10 via ILS/Universal. The six-song EP entered the Billboard charts upon its first week of release, on Billboard's Current Hard Music Albums chart at #58 and Top New Album Artist chart at #94. The songs have more of an industrial feel to the music, using vocal effects, more rapid drum beats and more distortion to provide the album a different character than the symphonic-sounding Immortal Waltz. Alive gained acclaim from music critics, who called the band a hard rock sensation. 

Edge of Paradise has been writing for a forthcoming album due for release in late 2019. The band announced a new album to be titled 'Universe', was released on August 11, 2019.

The band announced s new album to be titled 'The Unknown', was released in 2021.



Band Members

Margarita Monet - lead vocals
Dave Bates - lead guitar
David Ruiz - rhythm guitar
Justin Blair - bass
Jamie Moreno - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Edge+of+Paradise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.