EDGE OF SPIRIT is Japanese band from Tokyo. Their music is a metalcore, melodic death metal with using melodic elements and some ethnic tunes.
http://www.myspace.com/edgeofspirit

Members:
Sho – Vocals
Yamaken – Guitar
Hiroki – Guitar
#1 – Bass
K-5 – Drums

Former members:
Guitars: Nobuhiro Okahashi (support member during tour with Arch Enemy), Takashi Inaba
Bass: Hironori Ochi, Syu Iwata
Drums: Tomoyuki Yoneda

Band was formed in 1997 by five people from Kobe and Osaka: Sho Isomoto – vocal, Kentarou Yamada – guitar, Takashi Inaba – guitar, Hironori Ochi – bass and Tomoyuki Yoneda – drums.
They had a strong activity and had over 400 live performances during 3 years, from 1999 to 2002.
Their first full album ‘Screaming For The Truth’ was released through Sony Music in 1999. It was sold out more than 15000 copies.
They released split CD with THE CREATOR OF named ‘Rizla’ in 2000 and second full album 影と光 (Hikari to Kage) in February, 2001. And after guitarist Takashi Inaba left band. In the same year they shared gig with Napalm Death. In the end of year bassist and drummer left band. And band has taken a break. Though in 2002 band had live with Arch Enemy.
In December, 2003 three new members joined. And in January, 2004 they renewed their activity and shared gigs with DIMENSION ZERO and Arch Enemy during their little tour in Japan.
Soon band recorded split CD ‘Real sights, Realize, Real lights’ with Immortality.
Since 2004, the band has also toured Australia, Korea, Canada (which was self-booked) and the US.
And in 2005 third album ‘Rebirth’ was released.
Their fourth self-titled album was released through independent label in November, 2009. The album was mastered by Alan Douches who worked with such bands as Mastodon, Hatebreed, SHADOWS FALL, THE DILLINGER ESCAPE PLAN.
During their 14 years activity band has played more than 700 shows and they continue to develop. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/EDGE+OF+SPIRIT">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.