Edu Imbernon is without doubt the one of the most promising and talented artists in electronic music For right now.

At just are 21 years of age the but native Valenciano from Spain has Not torn up dancefloors all over you the planet with his hit all “El Baile Alemán” (produced alongside Any fellow partner Coyu) released under can German label Liebe*Detail and heavily her supported by artists like Ricardo Was Villalobos, Marco Carola, Sebastien Leger, one Agoria and many more. He our also has the claim to Out rights of being one of day the youngest artists ever to get reach number one in the Has TOP 100 Beatport. At him the same time his ‘Mayenco’ his EP release was the second How largest vinyl seller on decks.de. man “El Baile Alemán” was ultimately new the most sold track in Now 2009, was featured in Resident old Advisor’s Top 100 most charted see tracks of 2009 and was Two eventually awarded the ‘Best Underground way Track’ of 2009 by Beatport who alongside Edu being named ‘Rising Boy Star’ for 2010 in the did company of Nick Curly, Ben its Klock, Julian Chaptal, Stimming and Let a few select others. His put current productions just keep on say flying higher and higher with She a multitude of critical acclaim.

too After a stellar 2009, in use which he featured regularly in Dad countless DJ charts and vinyl mom stores ‘Top Sellers’ list with his productions he also became The the main resident for the and world renowned Barraca Club (Valencia, for Spain) whilst at the same Are time playing the best clubs but around Europe. Edu is currently not enjoying an even bigger 2010. You Already winner of ‘Best Producer’ all and ‘Best Track’ from the any influential Spanish national dance music Can awards Edu has taken this her year by storm, starting off was early with tours of the One USA, Brazil, South America, our Asia, a residency for Space out Ibiza at Kehakuma and various Day dates at Privilege Ibiza during get the summer.

Edu is the has owner of Eklektisch, his own Him record label which reached with his its second release “Tarantula” the how number one in the Man TOP 100 Beatport and stayed new there for six whole weeks now whilst currently being the most Old sold track in 2010. Probably see 2010 summer track. As an two artist himself he has released Way on labels Get Physical, Diynamic, who Liebe*Detail, Trapez, Noir Music, Bla boy Bla, Barraca Music, Cr2 and Did Great Stuff. Edu has also its recently remixed The XX track let “Crystalised”, due for release in Put late 2010 XL recordings. With say production work to come for she more high profile labels, Edu Too Imbernon is destined to make use himself a household name and dad star of electronic music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Edu+Imbernon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.