There's more than 1 band named Effigy:

1. Effigy (Japan)
Japanese Crust/Thrash Metal comparable to Amebix, early Sepultura, Antisect, Axegrinder, Deviated Instinct, Hellbastard, and Celtic Frost.

Releases:
-12" LP (Evil Fragments)
-7" EP (Grinding Metal Massacre)
-2 split 7"s (with Havaistys and Aparat)
-Split 10" LP / CD with Hellshock. 

They also contributed 2 songs to the Amebix Japan tribute LP/CD. The band still exists.

2. Effigy (Australia)
Effigy were an Australian three piece rock/synth band originally consisting of Peter Hardman, Jason Stacy and Annie Beckerling; bassist Beckerling quit the band during the early stages of recording second album "Century Collapsing", and was replaced by Cobina Crawford. Originally from Perth WA, Hardman, the bands founder relocated the band to Victoria where they joined the Melbourne Rock scene. Of the two albums in total the band produced, they had limited success with "Century Collapsing" thanks to singles "Suspicion Bells" and "Caught". Though Effigy effectively disbanded after that album, Hardman eventually formed a new four-piece, all-male band under the Effigy name. They have yet to release anything on CD.

3. Effigy (Minneapolis, USA)
Effigy were an acoustic duo comprised of Matthew Coon and Tim O'Regan. They released a limited edition of their EP "Crunked Up Intellectuals" in 2005. Inspired by Pink Floyd, The Beatles, Bob Dylan and The White Stripes, the album focused on their gentle, acoustic side, but featured some darkness and Middle Eastern character as well.

They played a few gigs locally until discovering bassist Andy Riedinger. With the addition of Andy the newly-formed three-piece took a radical shift in direction, becoming a loud garage rock band and decided to change their name. The newly formed group, Darkfold, will release their album in 2008.



4. Effigy (Fife, UK)
Effigy are a Scottish five-piece punk rock band who came together in the fall of 2004. The original band members consisted of Ross Martin (vocals), Travis Whalley (guitar and screaming vocals), Jason Paterson (guitar and backup vocals), Gavin McKay (bass), and Daniel Pasieka (drums). The band announced in September 2008 that Gav would be parting with the band because of other commitments which forced his time with the band to a stretched minimum. From that time forth Eric Ferguson, commonly known as 'Frenchy' became the replacement bassist.
Effigy released a DVD in 2006 which included visuals and audio of the bands first successful year of writing and touring Fife. Since 2006 Effigy expanded their music and songwriting until releasing a small EP of their work in spring of 2007.

Martin took study in the University of Aberdeen and so the band's public performances became very much part time. This did, however, open opportunities for the band to perform in Aberdeen at the well known Cafe Drummonds, Aberdeen's premier underground music venue. In 2007 Martin returned to Fife, meanwhile Paterson had been studying in Dundee.

During the summer the band ventured on a full Scottish tour to spread their wings. This opened doors which saw LifeBlind, L.A.P and Flood of Red heading to the small town of Dalgety Bay. At the end of the spring in 2008 Effigy closed the door to the public to re-write their band image, new songs and sounds. It was at that time they came to the conclusion of replacing the Gav with Frenchy. They will be making one performance at Halloween before returning to the drawing board in preparation for a re-emergence in 2009.

5.Effigy (Kansas USA) 

A Punk band originally composed of Rusty Wiley (Lead Vocals, Guitar), Dic Leslie (Bass, Backup Vocals), and Tony Pannone (Drums).  The band later added Colin MacMillin as a 2nd guitar player.

Released a first album in 1999 titled "We Gave It a Try" & a second disc Titled "A Dozen Roses". The band later changed their name The Primetime Heroes.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Effigy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.