Egg (1): An early British progressive rock band.

Egg (2): An Electronic artist featuring Mr. White and Mr. Yolk. This duo based in Montreal (Canada) is formed by Guillaume Coutu Dumont and Julien Roy... (see more below)

Egg (3): Pop-rock band from the late 80's featuring Chris Ballew (The Presidents of the United States of America) and Phil Franklin. Other members include Dale Peyser & Llyod Dyson.

Egg (4): See The Egg.

EGG (5): A noisecore project from California (myspace.com/eggology).  

Egg (6): Project of two female musicians from Groningen, Netherlands. 

1. Egg, The Canterbury band that released only three organ-prominent albums! After guitarist Steve Hillage left the band Uriel (also known as Arzachel), the other members, keyboardist Dave Stewart (organ, piano and tone generator) , bassist Mont Campbell (also organ, piano and French Horn), and drummer Clive Brooks reformed themselves as a trio. They released a pair of eccentric, complex, mostly-instrumental albums in 1969 (Egg) and 1970 (The Polite Force)  before splitting up.  Stewart joined Hatfield & the North at that time, and Egg reformed briefly to record one more album, The Civil Surface, in 1974. Their music is very structured and composed, with classical pieces Johann Sebastian Bach and some light jazzy influences.

2. Julien Roy is known for his work behind the renown artistic collective Artificiel and has releases on the Oral and PeP labels. Until recently known more as a percussionist, Guillaume Coutu Dumont's experiences as a session musician have taken him from the International Jazz Festival of Montreal to the jazz festival of St-Louis (Senegal) and the recording of 3 albums. Together as Egg, they have successfully set themselves at the intersection of multiple influences -- guided by a distinct experimental interest, Egg craft a blend of acoustic instrumentation, tinged with the elements of dub and micro-house, which result in an insatiable amalgamation of infectious body-music. Over a year in the making, their debut full-length, Don't Postpone Joy presents a softly subversive musical universe that is both playful and carefully calibrated to open itself upon repeated listens. Egg have truly defined a signature of their own that compliments the fellow artists in their community, but justly remarks them as a force to be reckoned with in the global electronic scene. 

6. Multi-instrumentalist and singer Wendelmoet (former Buzz Aldrin) and bassplayer and singer Barbara (former Benjamin B. and SevenHz) released a 3-inch cd with five miniature songs recorded at home. Up till now it seems to have been a one time effort... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Egg">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.