*UPDATE*
Link to the new kickstarter campaign for "You're All Invited"
http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/879876822/eggnogg-youre-all-invited-vinyl-lp-release


Eggnogg is a heavy rock trio from Brooklyn, New York. Since their debut album in 2009, Eggnogg has masterfully blurred genre lines, transcending the redundant boundaries of modern rock music. Eggnogg’s effortless merging of melody, discord, psychedelic textures, and irresistible hooks defies expectation and refuses to be type casted.

The band’s unprecedented sound grows from the dynamic between its members. Drummer, Ryan Quinn’s thunderous rhythms and technical finesse are augmented by the bass and guitar work of principal songwriters, Justin Karol and Bill O’Sullivan. The two guitarists exhibit styles that are distinct, yet complementary, and their trading of guitar solos keeps the playing fresh and expansive. Atop monstrous riffs resound Bill O’Sullivan’s deep vocals, which vary from a bluesy croon, to a gut-wrenching belt. Together, Eggnogg crafts a sound that has been described as, “a mixture between Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin, and Pink Floyd.”

In 2010, following their raw, trudging, and relentlessly heavy debut album The Three, Eggnogg confounded reviewers with their follow-up Nogg EP, which was released as a free download on their official website. In five brief tracks, the band covered a wide range of sonic territory, from the straightforward hard rock of songs like, “Goya” and “The Plant,” to the spacey calm of, “A Stranger on the Moon,” to the skull-crushing heaviness of, “The Hive,” and the EP’s closing track, “Counter-Clockwork.” Noting the diversity of the EP, Doommantia.com remarked: 

“[Egg]Nogg are one of the new breed of riff rockers who have the potential to fill the void left by bands (not naming any names) that are no longer supplying the music world with killer riffs or infectious hooks.”

On July 4th, 2011, Eggnogg released their second full-length LP, Moments in Vacuum, on Palaver Records. Described by one reviewer as “...a devastating, multi-layered, multi-dimensional album that blends all the elements found on earlier releases but takes them to new heights of songwriting excellence and great musicianship,” Moments in Vacuum displays a diversity of styles that appeal to any and all tastes. The trudging dirge of the opening track, “Magog” is followed by the fuzzy blues-rock of “Raking in Dough” and “Wheel of the Year”, tracks that exhibit Eggnogg’s ability to seamlessly fuse heavy riffs with catchy melodies and choruses. The brief but monolithic, “One Monster’s Confession,” shows the band returning to their doom-laden roots, before launching into the surreal, “Cydonia,” a space-rock ballad that progresses into an unexpected extended jam. The album closes with, “The Rhythmic Past,” a celestial journey that crescendos from psychedelic ambiance to crushing doom, while exploring every space between. Heavy rock blog TheSludgeMaster remarked:

“Everything on this album is brilliant. Production. Instrument Playing, vocals and the cool and strange psychedelic cover.”

Ever determined to push their music to new heights, Eggnogg continues to write new material. Planned for release in the fall of 2011 is a small four-song EP, and the band’s third full-length album will be out in early 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eggnogg">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.