This thrash metal revival band formed in Garnerville, New York located in Rockland County.  They started in the year 2006.  Egokill started off with  Brian Schermerhorn (vocals), Matt Van Pelt (aka MVP) (guitar), Alex Schuster (bass) and Jason Van Pelt (drums).  Egokill played many live shows with the original line-up all over Rockland County and New Jersey.  Matt Smahaj would fill-in for Schuster whenever Schuster was not available for some live shows.

The original lineup only lasted for 3 years (however there have been reunions of the original lineup as the years went by) and they managed to release Welcome To The Violence in 2008.  It was intended to be their first full-length album, but it turned out to be a demo.

Egokill went through drummers over the years.  Jason Van Pelt left in 2009 and he was replaced by Randy Tesser.  Van Pelt joined Silence the Feedback.  Tesser did not last in Egokill that long, but he played a few shows with the band.  Tesser left in 2011 to focus on The Animist and Joel Miranda replaced him.  Egokill was looking to record their first true full-length album.  Everything got recorded and things were going as planned.  They did not have album cover artwork for the album though.

They released their first full-length album Destroying the Vibes in 2013.  Miranda left after the album was released and the band decided to use the artwork that was on the Welcome to the Violence demo.  Jorge Hernandez-Rodriguez replaced Miranda in 2013.

Seth Nobles joined Egokill and he was their 2nd guitarist in 2014.  However, it was short-lived and he left.  Before he left, he was on the 2014 EP Deny and Apply.  The EP consisted of 3 songs and it features artwork by Brian Schermerhorn.

Alex Schuster left the band 2014.  Schuster was replaced by Rodrigo Ospino.  Matt Van Pelt played his last show at the Blue Room Lounge (a venue they often performed at) on December 20, 2014.  Alex Schuster and MVP's brother (Jason Van Pelt) attended the show.  They performed as well and it was one of the last times the original lineup played a show together in years.  

On April 2, 2015, MVP returned to Egokill.   As time went by, the band would play occasional shows in the tri-state area.  Not too much activity was going on, they would mention some things here and there on their Facebook page.   Around 2018-2019, the band quietly disbanded for unspecified/unknown reasons, but most likely due to personal things going on in the members' lives such as MVP getting married in 2019.

Bandcamp
Facebook
Metal Archives
Myspace
Twitter
ReverbNation <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/egokill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.