Egonaut – four young lads with one single ambition: World Domination.
The band was formed in 2005 when Fredrik Jordanius became sick and tired of ploughing through the underground metal scene with nothing to keep him company but a pair of tight leather jeans and more double bass drums and falsetto screams than he could stand.

He started searching for a new musical expression and in his long time friends Markus Johansson and Kristoffer Drotz he found the perfect combination to get a new band going, hence Egonaut was born!

Mixing seventies heavy rock with punk, hardcore, metal and 21’st century attitude Egonaut entered “Old Crap Recordings” in early 2006 to record the milestone demo “The first one to strike wins”, temporarily reinforced by organist Göran Ålfelt.

The demo was instantly successful and it was almost immediately dubbed “Best demo of the month” in Sweden’s biggest rock magazine “Close Up Magazine”, earning them a spot on the compilation CD included with each number, printed in 5000 copies.

The recognition gave them a lust to start playing live, and since it would be plain terrible to play organ-based hard rock without an organist the band sought out Richard Olsson to complete the line up.

Only a month after becoming a four piece the band was back in the studio to record three new hard rock classics and so “One Down...” saw the light of day. A demo that earned the band both great reviews and several sold out gig, the highlight so far being playing for 300+ persons at a sold out Trägårn in Borås, Sweden.

In early 2006 Richard left the band, making Egonaut a threepiece once more. This only strengthened the bands determination and it was only a matter of time before kick-ass organist Dennis Zielinski was drafted to re-complete the line-up.

The beginning of 2008 is starting out really great with a new demo and an explosive gig in front of 400 wild people, a live dvd is soon to be released! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Egonaut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.