Einstürzende Neubauten is an ever-changing musical entity, originally formed in Berlin, Germany, on the 1st April 1980. Neubauten were initially seen as part of the second wave of industrial bands, filling the space left when Throbbing Gristle terminated their mission. Neubauten's early output fit the term "industrial" well, as it (ab)used the sounds of machinery, metal-on-metal, construction-site equipment, and treated tape loops, creating harsh soundscapes and rhythmic textures reminiscent of krautrock. Their inclusion on the record label Some Bizarre, with acts like Foetus, Coil, and Test Dept., consolidated this position as new industrial pioneers.

However, Neubauten soon outgrew the confines of even the broad scope of industrial music. In their 25-plus years, they have produced a dozen studio albums, live records, a remix album and EP, scored theatre pieces, and more.

Lead vocalist Blixa Bargeld is perhaps the best-known member of the group, both for his work with Neubauten and as guitarist for Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds. His fellow founding members Alexander Hacke and N.U. Unruh have likewise been active in various musical roles outside the group over the years.

Bassist Mark Chung was a member of the group from 1981 to 1994. He founded the publishing house Freibank Music Publishing to handle business affairs for Neubauten and other groups, and has continued in this role (concurrently serving as a senior vice-president of Sony Music International for nine years). Percussionist FM Einheit, was a member from 1981 to 1995, and has also been active as a solo artist and member of groups such as Gry.

Since 1997 the group has also included guitarist Jochen Arbeit and percussionist Rudi Moser.

Neubauten's most recent work has been available exclusively to subscribers to their online home, www.neubauten.org. Neubauten completed the third incarnation of their online project in November 2007 and were touring Europe in 2008 in support of their latest album Alles Wieder Offen.

Currently Einstürzende Neubauten is celebrating their 30th anniversary  with a tour through Europe and the United States. In October/November 2010 the band is releasing Strategies Against Architecture IV, the fourth album in the archival compilation series by Neubauten which collates the band’s output from 2002-2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Einst%C3%BCrzende+Neubauten">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.