EISENVATER 

Founded in April 1990 in Hamburg by Jim Sudmann and Markus E. Lipka, EISENVATER pursue the objective of creating a monumental and intensive listening experience via electric guitar-laden rock music . Searching for a suitable record label, all applications are initially turned down on the grounds that, despite the music being indeed 'of high quality', the German vocals are deemed unsuitable to the label's concept...
And then, an exception.

In 1992 the album EISENVATER I appears on WE BITE RECORDS, a small, south German hardcore label. Tours within Germany follow and result in an initially small fan base. Purist metal fans already show nagitatation, as the band only plays with the stylistic devices of this genre. EISENVATER never saw itself as a regular metal band - too complex are the roots and the musical interests of the protagonists.

After the departure of drummer Jörg Grzedzicki, the album EISENVATER II is produced and released in 1994 with drummer Peter Bellendir. Further tours and sporadic shows in neighbouring countries ensue, the following growing noticeably.

Former bassist Marek Gibney leaves the band, and it is decided to record album No. 3 as a threesome. In 1995, EISENVATER III is released. Studio bass chores are taken on by M.E. Lipka; for concert tours (in Germany, The Netherlands, Denmark, Austria and the U.S.), the highly capable Marco van Basten completes the line-up.

In mid-'96 the band agrees to temporarly halt their collaboration and dedicate their efforts to other musical genres, for example electronic music or Lipka's electric guitar orchestra ROSSBURGER REPORT, in which Sudmann and Bellendir also participate.

After an extended abstinence from the rock form, Sudmann and Lipka resolve in April 2002 to again take up their work with EISENVATER. The following year, they find in Stefan Gretscher the bassist for the already composed new material for EISENVATER IV . After an extended search, they eventually decide upon the drummer Johannes Schäfer.

The new material does not reproduce the sound of the first three albums. The sound may well continue to be first and foremost determined by electric guitars, the developmental history of the band however evidences according idiosyncracy.

EISENVATER: loud and irate, but ambivalent and always an entertaining bullwark against the narrow and established, against humorlessness and lovelessness. ( Kenton Türk )

LINE-UP 2008:

Markus E. Lipka - guitars, vocals
Jim Sudmann - guitars, vocals
Stefan Gretscher - bass
Johannes Schäfer - drums

taken from: http://www.eisenvater.org/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eisenvater">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.