1. EKG was a Black/Death/Doom metal band from Rakovník, Central Bohemian Region, Czechia. 1990-1992




2. EKG is early 80's avant-garde / mutant jazz / post-punk project from Düsseldorf.

Part of 3-way compilation "Massa" with Blässe and Roter Stern Belgrad released on Klar! 80 records in 1981, also part of "Klar! 80 Sampler 2: Sample And Hold". 

Consists from Bernd Kastner & Siegfried Syniuga (of Strafe Für Rebellion), Bernd Wedrich, Jörn Stoya (of Family 5; Trashmuseum; Blank Bartóks; Bombay 1).


3. EKG is the duo of Kyle Bruckmann and Ernst Karel. Their music is situated between acoustic and electronic, improvised and premeditated, disruptive and meditative; it crackles and hums with precariously restrained potential energy. Combining traditional and extended wind techniques with anachronistic (non-digital) electronic processing, they carefully sculpt a bizarre yet organic acoustic world of shifting tones, sudden and creeping textures, elusive suggestions of possible melody, and microscopic noise.

EKG formed during the late 1990s in Chicago. Their first recording is "Shift or Latch" on Crank Satori (2001). 2003 saw the release of a full length album on Locust Music's Object series, as well as tours of both the East and West Coasts. Their work continues even as Bruckmann now lives in San Francisco and Ernst Karel in Boston. A CD entitled "No Sign" was released in early 2005 on Sedimental. "Group", a trio album with Giuseppi Ielasi, was released in August 2006 on Formed Records.  Their most recent work is "Electricals", released in 2009 on the UK label, Another Timbre.

Their website is ekg.klingt.org

4. Hailing from Little Rock Arkansas and fused from the musical talents of Asteios and Alert All Arms, EKG is an energetic amalgam of music. Melding Pop, Rock, and Rap, they bring a technically-minded approach to a new genre. The self-labeled "PopCrunk" band started in September of 2009 and is steadily gaining popularity due to fans of former projects. The 2009 debut EP has been written and recorded. While there is still no official release date, the band has confirmed seven songs. They have performed with CX Kidtronik as Deuce/Deuse Gangsta.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/EKG">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.