An Elctrikchair performance is a uniquely fulfilling experience. The band, ELCTRIKCHAIR, [electric chair] was created in 2003, by siblings Andrew and Bobby Rodriguez, the name ELCTRIKCHAIR was never intended to be identified with 'electric chair' the former method of capital punishment, although the band has used the confusion to further its intended purpose. Then with the audition of Eloy Fernadez on Bass They decided to set the world on first with their first demo Thrash Militia in late 2003. Using pure elements of the classic sound it seemed Elctrikchair started to gain a loyal following. As the band grew they set out to do their first run of out of state shows which were good. They band began to change their style away from thrash more towards melodic death and black metal sound which had a better response than the previous demo. Then they entered flatline audio with producer Dave Otero to cut a ep Called Eternity Into Darkness which exploded in 2004. This ep got them invited to to covenant Milwaukee Metal fest that same yr. That is how Elctrikchair started to grow. When electric chair was initially suggested as a band name, the idea was nearly dismissed for its lack of originality and the liklihood that it was already being used by countless bands throughout the United States. Then 2005 lead to the bands 2nd ep Run From the Sun which had the new sound in place, a mix of finnish Melodic Death Metal and black metal. This was Eloy Fernandez's last album with the band before leaving to form Cruxvae. Jesus Garcia was added but let go due to intrest in the music. Which he was replaced by Matt Maconahay who did some of the guitar tracks on run from the sun. All of those reservations about the name ELCTRIKCHAIR were dismissed when its spelling was revealed for the first time. At the band's inception, drummer, Bobby, was eleven years old; lead guitarist/vocalist, Andrew, was nineteen. ELCTRIKCHAIR is a vehicle for ridding society of every wrong or repulsive thing about it by utilizing music to bridge obvious gaps between cultures and people, while exposing the controversy and the reality. ELCTRIKCHAIR has evolved into a modern heavy metal phenomenon. ELCTRIKCHAIR harvests the best of metal's history, blends heavy metal, R&B, Latin, swing, blues, jazz, rock, African, world percussion, harp, piano/keyboards, mallets and funk beats with interesting old school punkish rants and conventional opera vocal that combine with metal grunt vocals to produce curiously European metal and powerful political statements. The most difficult challenge is always one's ability to recognize his source of anger, humiliation or hatred; neither can one begin to overcome such compromising handicaps without first acknowledging their presence. Since performing for the first time at a tiny northern Colorado punk venue, ELCTRIKCHAIR has achieved every lofy goal in the local scene, toured throughout the United States earning fans and respect along the way, graced the international stage, had its music heard and appreciated in many foreign countries and flirted with the enticement of global recognition. All of this in the span of five short years. While ELCTRIKCHAIR continues to outlast its naysayers and detractors the band's journey can only be evaluated for the extent of its contribution, the duration of its ambition and the persistence of its ideas. Below is a script the band adopted early, inviting fans and others to learn the correct pronunciation of the band's name. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elctrikchair">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.