There are several artists with the name Elder;

1) Elder is a four-piece stoner doom band from Boston, Massachusetts consisting of frontman Nick DiSalvo, bassist Jack Donovan, guitarist/keyboardist Michael Risberg and drummer Georg Edert. They have released five full-length albums since 2006 and multiple demos and EPs.

Elder is a genre-pushing rock band that melds heavy psychedelic sounds with progressive elements and evocative soundscapes. Formed in a small coastal town in Massachusetts in the mid aughts, the band has reinvented their sound over the course of five albums to grow from a stalwart of the stoner/doom scene into one of the most unique voices in the rock underground. Their long-scale compositions unfold as journeys, running the gamut of styles from the 70’s to the present within a single song with a penchant for “sheer gatefold-era grandeur” (Rolling Stone).

By continuing to incorporate new elements to their sound, Elder’s output has repeatedly set benchmarks for their peers. Beginning with 2008’s Elder and 2010’s Dead Roots Stirring, Elder made ripples in the stoner rock scene with their uniquely melodic approach to the genre. In 2015 they surprised again with Lore, a watershed moment in the band’s career (recently crowned “Album of the Decade” by The Obelisk) which brought in elements of post-, prog- and space rock into the Elder sound. Despite several years of heavy touring surrounding the album, Reflections of a Floating World was released just two years later, earning a spot at the top of many best-of lists including Rolling Stone (#5, 20 Best Metal Albums Of 2017), Stereogum and others.

In 2019, a tour pitstop in Berlin, Germany yielded the experimental EP The Gold & Silver Sessions. Recorded live based off ideas largely crafted while on the road, the release showcased Elder’s softer side; motorik beats, lush keyboards and sparse compositions replaced the usual colossal riffs and dense structure. Almost a decade and a half after the first sludgy riffs were recorded and the first demo pressed, the door for Elder stylistically remained wide open.

Elder’s new album Omens answers any speculation about new directions with affirmation: evolution or extinction. Lush, intricately interwoven melodies grow and dissolve into spaced-out jams; massive riffs thunder down into a churning sea of psychedelic sounds and unpredictable grooves carry away the listener. Elder paint pictures with their music, and Omens shows the band experimenting with an even more colorful palette – with good reason. After thirteen years, this is the first full-length recorded with a new lineup including guitarist Michael Risberg and new drummer Georg Edert, along with guest performances by Fabio Cuomo on Rhodes piano and synthesizers.

2) Formed in Brisbane in early 2018, Elder is a progressive indie rock band hailing from north Brisbane, consisting of Matt Burton (vocals, guitar), Henry Reese (bass) and Talia Bond (drums), the trio have released a DIY EP 'Cyril' in 2019 and their debut album 'Binoei' is due late 2020.

https://e-ldr.bandcamp.com/


3) American screamo band.


4) Elder is also a musical dramatist, telling stories of a dark yet recognizable world. His keen observation falls between tearful humour and black romance. His songs immerse the grittier side of life; depicting scenes of smoke filled rooms and drug fuelled nights. His music paves the way with slapping grooves and roots overtones. His theatrical storytelling has likened him to David Bowie, Tom Waits and The Eels.

http://www.myspace.com/elderroche


5) Elder was a dark Christian hard rock band that was on Bulletproof Music and Liquid Disc Records.  It was made up of former members of the short-lived Four Living Creatures who were on Frozen Rope Records.  "Elder gigs in Tidewater, VA were notorious for their evangelistic twist. It was like going to punk-goth-rock tent revival. Their first CD, Used To Be Adorable, was "funk 'n' punk" goth rock and Middle Eastern vibes with skilled intensity and scorching messages..."  They broke up in the late nineties and the core member of FLC and Elder started a new project named Fell Desire.

http://www.graydot.com/support/eldx.html
http://cdbaby.com/cd/felldesire <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.