Electro_Nomicon is a band that has proven that great music knows no boundaries. This tight knit and diversely influenced group is comprised of band members from the United States and Argentina that have traveled extensively between countries to define and refine their unique sound. The energy and drive in their music is second to none. They're not looking to meet standards, they're setting new standards. Totally original and completely dedicated to their craft, the members of E_N each contribute a passion and dedication to excellent musicianship that forges their unique sound. 

The Electro_Nomicon intercontinental connection consists of Diego Valdez (vocals), Owen Bryant (drums), Juan Josè Fornès (guitar), Diego Rodriguez (bass) .Individually the band members bring diverse cultural musical influences from folk rock to classic rock to heavy metal and everything in between. Combined the band has found their own natural groove. 

Current notable accomplishments include being the first band to be inducted into the Metal Monthly Hall of Fame, working with Stosh Jarecki of Rotary Films (who has worked on videos with Rob Halford and many prominent television shows including VH-1), and working with Beau Hill (multi-platinum record producer). 
Electro_Nomicon is currently in rotation on FM Radio Stations around the Globe as well as many Internet Stations. E_N also held the #1 spot for Metal Bands in Seattle Wa. and Buenos Aires Argentina for three years,2009-2012, on Reverbnation (A Record in the Northwest hard rock music scene) with well over 50,000 followers as well. E_N has remained in the top 50 Metal Bands across the USA and top 100 Bands globally as well. 

Every band strives to be different, and what sets Electro_Nomicon apart is that they don’t have to try. E_N is different and yet familiar; A refreshing conundrum that breaks the mold as the sound captivates you. Great music opens doors and Electro_Nomicon holds the key. Unlock the magic! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Electronomicon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.