1. A killer d-beat noise punk band featuring a member of Warvictims. all 4 demos sold out and are available for download from Distro-y Records.
Their albums include D-Beat Noise Attack, Make A Change, Gröndalen, In League With Darkness, the D-Beat Noise Attack/Make A Change LP (actually a collection of the first two demos) out on Shogun Records, the Make Noise, Not War EP out on Detonate Records, the Harvester Of Death EP out on Crucificados Records, a split EP with Go Filth Go out on Phobia Records, and a split LP with Krömosom, State Poison and The Helpless out sometime on Crucificados Records.

2. An Occult Doom/Stoner Rock/Psychedelic Rock band from Switzerland.

Review on Sonidos-Primitivos : 
"Material extracted from Swiss sinks, terribly forgotten among so much moisture and excrescence, yet condemned to remain in the same podredura, because that can save this album, itself rather of brutish troglodytes, must face a terrible recording quality performed in the crudest form during any live performance of the band ... Question I predict that already, do not worry so much addicted to the hustle and bustle, which are only just a few seconds of silence to beginning his martyrdom.

The references are clear, Sabbath to the bars, made in the way that only a most gifted young talent that could win it, raw, primitive, raw as any title ... In short, the result can already noted, if they dare or if they have heard, I would recommend it, but I do not pay attention, I'm just a guy who does not have primary the perfect orchestral bands like ELP

As additional data should be aware that the word ''perfective''not in the DRAE and if you have not guessed, these guys take the name of one of the songs from the album Paranoid by Black Sabbath, released the same year in which the recording was made of this plate." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Electric+Funeral">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.