"With Influences that vary widely, from the 60s psychedelia of Love and The Pretty Things over 70s Ziggy Stardust to 80's Post-Punk-Fatalists Joy Division, Eelctric Turn to Me is a band for fans of the dark pop of Interpol, the reckless abandon of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs and the progressive roots of the Secret Machines."The Onion

At age 15, Blake Fleming started drumming for Dazzling Killmen, a pummeling post-rock band from St. Louis whose second full-length album, Face of Collapse, was named the heaviest album of the '90s by Alternative Press. Marcus DeGrazia was a classically trained saxophonist, who discovered noise-punk freakout in his post-college years. Through the latter half of the 1990s, the two played together in Laddio Bolocko, a New York band who made their name with deconstructed musical freakout.

Four years ago Silke was an art student in Hannover, Germany, but Laddio Bolocko changed that. One night in early 2000, she went out to see them play at a local club. "This band started playing and two seconds into it blew our f**king minds.  It was everything I thought music should be: very visceral and very real.” She hadn't started playing and writing yet. She left the club, but felt compelled to come back that night to talk with the band. She and Fleming hit it off, and later that year she moved to New York.

After a half year's involvement with the creation of The Mars Volta in LA in 2001, Fleming returned to Brooklyn and began experimenting with progressive pop ideas with Silke that would soon attract DeGrazia.

The three spent the summer of 2002 creating songs with an explosive depth of dynamics and emotions, a kaleidoscope of contrast.

In need of one more color to fill the canvas that was becoming ETTM, Fleming called longtime friend Kai Fiedler in Berlin just to see if he might want a change of scenery… and move over to play guitar. He did.

A slew of New York gigs lead to two self-recorded EPs on Philadelphia's No Quarter Records. With both EP’s scoring on hometown WNYU’s top 20 weekly lists, a feature in Rockpile magazine, a growing following and generally glowing press, ETTM decided to hit the road. A six-week tour of the U.S. and a five-week tour of Europe found them playing with bands as diverse as Q and not U, Kinski, Chinese Stars, My Enemies Friends, Bad Wizard, Wolf Eyes, Young People and Denali, completing over 100 shows in their first year alone. They then returned to playing Manhattan and Brooklyn clubs where they met producer Shawn Moseley. The meeting led to the production of their first full length record, slated to be finished by summer 2005. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Electric+Turn+To+Me">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.