There are several artists with the same or similar names:  1. Elefante from Uruguay, 2. Elefante from Mexico, 3. Elephante, an American DJ (redirected).

1) Elefante was one of Uruguay's leading rock bands in the 90's, formed in Montevideo. The original lineup consisted of STELLA MARIS (voice), BESTIA (guitar), HARRY (bass), CHONIUK (drums), and MANECO (guitar and samplers).
Elefante was one of the most significative bands from that decade, mixing hip-hop, nü-metal and electronica in their music. In addition, a female voice in the front gave them a different touch. They were always linked by the Montevideo's underground.
Elefante edited three albums. "Elefante 1" (Koala Records / 2000), "Bazar" (Koala Records / 2001), and "Forma" (Koala Records / 2002).
After "Forma", the band split up in 2002.

--

2) Mexican Elefante formed in the early '90s. They had the opportunity to play for a major audience in 2000 while opening for Joaquín Sabina at Mexico City's Auditorio Nacional. A year later, the band represented Mexico in Viña del Mar, the most popular Chilean festival, with a song called "De la Noche a la Mañana." The song was featured in Elefante's debut album El Que Busca Encuentra, produced by Nacho Bejar.

--

3. Redirected Elephante is the recording and performing moniker of Tim Wu, a Los Angeles-based EDM DJ/producer known for his big-room progressive house anthems and remixes of artists ranging from Clean Bandit to Lorde. He generally tends to produce pop-leaning vocal dance tracks, but he dips into slower, trap-inspired numbers as well. Born in Ann Arbor, Michigan in 1989, Wu began playing music at an early age, receiving classical piano training before teaching himself to play guitar. He graduated from Harvard University in 2011 and initially tried to break into the music business as an acoustic singer/songwriter before switching to electronic dance music. He started out creating remixes before producing original tracks, and his first EP was released in 2013. Since then, he's released dozens of tracks and remixes, with songs like "I Want You" and "Age of Innocence" receiving millions of online streams. His debut full-length, I Am the Elephante, appeared in 2016. "Troubled," a collaborative single with singer Deb's Daughter, appeared in early 2017. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elefante">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.