The origin of this band goes back to 2006 when the guitarist, Tony Tomasicchio, decides to leave the rock band "Ragion Pura". So Tony thinks to another kind of music, exactly the "gothic metal". Tony calls quickly Alex Martina, the bass player in the "Abhema", a trash metal band always working in Taranto, to which Roberto Raio, after takes part. 
All together they begin to write the first songs, but they need a soprano female voice. The first girl answering to EoM's request is Anja Irullo that sends a file with her pure voice.
The band accepts Anja as the singer of this new group, the ELEGY OF MADNESS. To better complete the form, Marcello Lombardi, a very cleaver keyboard player, closes definitively the group giving it a classical accent
. The band played in many regions of Italy, after NIko realized that His work commitments occlude Him in carrying out the musical activity, setting back the rest of the band, too. So,he decides to record the CD and leave behind the group.
On May 2007, the group has recorded with its own resources His first product, a mini cd which contains 4 songs, entitled "Another Path". Afterwards, NIko was substituted by Roberto Raio who agree with the objectives and the desire to play of the band.
The new "Elegy of Madness" have already taken part to many live exhibitions and competitions, like Sziget Festival 2007, second of the Divine Rock Festival and Music Village ecc. 
They always play in pubs or places where the kind of gothic metal music is appreciated with its invading, clear, technic and exact sound, showing the great ability of all its players. 
Now the band is looking for new productions. The rest you knew before.

current line-up


Anja Irullo - Vocals
Tony Tomasicchio - Guitar
Alex Martina - Bass (Abhema)
Marcello Lombardi - Keyboards
Roberto Raio - Drums

http://www.facebook.com/elegyofmadness <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elegy+of+Madness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.