Elegos is a band consisting of Sarah Kunkel, her acoustic guitar, and her piano. The band was originally started by Sarah Kunkel, her brother Matt Kunkel, and Steve Kime in late June - early July of 2008. They're only recorded work being a still unfinished song entitled, "They Tell The Story", but lack of motivation caused this fleeting idea to come to an end. Steve and Sarah continued to keep the band alive, and band members have come and gone, but now, due to minor differences, distance, and lack of transportation, it's now down to Sarah.
As a solo artist, she writes all of her own music, usually deriving her inspiration from bands such as Underoath, Flyleaf, and a large variety of many other artists, along with ideas from the book of Psalms, her friends, emotions, nature. The usual mood of Elegos' songs are anywhere from depressing, to hopeful. Her main instrument is her acoustic guitar, though she writes songs on her piano as well. 
Sarah was born and raised in the little town of Kendallville, Indiana. She started taking piano lessons when she was around 7 years old, and took lessons on and off for three years. When she was in fourth+ grade she started writing classical songs on the piano, attempted to have some of them recorded, and thus started her musical creativity; She first picked up a guitar at the age of fourteen, and has been teaching herself ever since, along with occasional tips and pointers from two of her her older brothers. Her poetry/lyric writing has been a talent she possesed from a young age and has improved on in her earler pre- and teenage years.
"Seven Words" which was written and performed by Sarah, with accompaniment by Steven Kime, will be featured on the latest edition of "Eleventh Hour Confessions" by QuickStar Productions, which should be available in select stores and iTunes soon!
If you have any questions, comments, concerns, or would like to set up show, drop a comment or leave a message on Elegos' Myspace at http://www.myspace.com/elegos08. Elegos can also be contacted by e-mail: polyesterheart@hotmail.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elegos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.