There are multiple artists using the name Elemental:
1) A Croatian hip-hop band, founded in 1998.
2) A hip-hop MC from Brighton
3) A British dubstep producer.
4) D&B/autonomic producer from Bristol / London, Britain (UK). Signed to Runtime Records.
5) Psybient/psychill producer from Romania
6. A groove metal band from Quito, Ecuador.
7. A black metal band from Finland.

1)
Elemental is a Croatian hip-hop band, founded in 1998. It consisted of three MCs. Today things are different. Two MCs are spittin' lyrics: Shot and Remi, and 5 instrumentalists have been brought in.
In 2000, Elemental published their debut album "Moj, NJegov i Njen Svijet/My, His and Her World" with the help of an indie label from Zagreb - KondorComm.

Soon after their first album came out, they managed to gather a band together and so often performed without a DJ. Rest of the crew are: Erol Zejnilović (guitar), Ivan Vodopijec (drums), Konrad Lovrenčić (bass), Davor Zanoški (keyboards) i Natasha Tonkovic (backing vocal). Second album "Tempo velegrada/Demiurg" came out in 2002, and the group collaborated with eminent Croatian performers such as Tram11, One II Many, Bizzo (Bolesna Braća), Špica.

Their third album was released in 2004. -"Male Stvari/Little Things" is allegedly the first Croatian sample-free hip-hop album and ever since it came out, Elemental became known to a larger public.

Six singles were taken and they had huge success: 'Napokon', 'Romantika', 'Tako Lijepa', 'Sama', 'Iz Dana U Dan' and 'Male Stvari'.

 4th album was out on 07/02/2008 - "Pod pritiskom/ Under pressure". The first single 'Zašto te imam' has been banned on many radio and TV stations because of its explicit, politically inspired, content. However, it was a hit on YouTube with more than 50 000 views.
At the moment, Elemental are touring all over Balkan and filming their new video for the song 'Pod Pritiskom'.

They've recently released their 5th album named Vertigo.

Official site: www.elemental.com.hr
http://elementalsounds.blogspot.com

2)
Elemental is a Hip-Hop MC from Brighton. Member of ‘The Menagerie’ and ‘The Special School’. Far from your average MC he brings the fun of the circus to hip-hop!

Elemental is a member of many Brighton based rap groups and one of Britain’s finest storytelling emcees. His songs often involve animals, machines or tea. This is reflected in his stunning array of costumes and hats on stage too, If you’re watching a hip hop show in Brighton - he’ll be the one dressed as a ringmaster or giant panda.

He’s a member of many a fine group in Brighton including The Gentlemen’s Club, The Menagerie, Special School, Brighton Jams and the Victorian Parlour Evening Company, and is well known as one of his stage characters, Professor Elemental. He can be booked for weddings, kids parties, poetry gigs, funerals and barmitzvas. he also host acclaimed emcee workshops for all ages and abilities.

Official site: http://www.professorelemental.com/

3)
North London based producer Elemental started dabbling with production in 1994 with a Roland D5 and Atari ST at school. He later invested in an Akai S2000 sampler and a PC, the rest as they say, is history.
In the nineties he Predominantly focused on DnB and experimental Electronic music. At 18 he put out his first DnB release off his own back. A few years later, he became one half of breakbeat garage duo ‘Elemental + 3D’, releasing on their own label Runtime Recordings in 2002. A couple of years later after some time abroad, he caught the likes of Search & Destroy on Rinse FM and found the sound he had been looking for – dark, heavy syncopated beats and bass.

Since finding Dubstep, Elemental has been focused on bringing his unique sound to the masses, undeniably hard yet dubbed out, dirty bass and hypnotizing rhythms. He has had many releases from Destructive, Hotflush, Pitch Black and Halo Beats, and more recently, his seminal track Soulfire featured on Tayo’s Fabric mix CD. His live sets (so rare in the world of dubstep) are nothing short of astounding, deep, textured and considered; a fluid block of sound with spooky old Photek overtones, with interlocking rhythms and surging dark subs.

4) D&B/autonomic producer from Bristol / London, Britain (UK). Signed to Runtime Records.

5)
eleMental is a psychill/psybient/ambient producer and DJ from Romania. Having gone through an amazing array of musical genres, influences can range anywhere from old-school psychedelic rock to the fathers of ambient music and beyond. The project finds inspiration in nature, where almost every sound writes the theme of a beautiful composition. In the pauses between producing, he plays DJ sets on psychedelic festivals around Europe. Most of the time you can find him somewhere in the forest, all you need to do is call :)

6. A groove metal band from Quito, Ecuador.

7. A Finnish raw black metal side project of ‘Atvar’ (Rauta) of Circle of Ouroborus, Karmic Void, Kêres, 
Prevalent Resistance, Rahu, Venus Star, Verivala, Vordr, Impervious and Key.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elemental">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.