There are multiple artists called Elephant: at least eleven at this point.

1. Elephant is a band from London, United Kingdom, made up of Amelia Rivas (vocals, keyboards) and Christian Pinchbeck (guitars, computers). 

2. Elephant is a Pittsburgh, PA, United States-based band featuring members of Wings of Azrael. They released an EP, as well as a full-length album entitle, Identities. The band also has another profile as Elephant (PA) due to all the other bands named Elephant.

3. Some of the the members of Rotterdam, The Netherlands-based indie pop band Elephant played in Fleetwood Mac tribute band before they established Elephant in 2020, just before the outbreak of the corona virus. Fronted by Frank Schalkwijk, they recorded and self-released their Elephant début EP  during the Covid-19 pandemic, in 2021. They were soon signed by Dutch indie powerhouse Excelsior Recordings. Their first single for 'XLCR' was released in October 2021, entitled 'Calling'.

4. Elephant is a one-man project that reveres the metal it enjoys while using this passion to strengthen its own sound through constant experimentation and reinvention. They released two albums: The Extinction Paradox (2008) and The Defining Choice (2009).

5. Elephant is a Toronto, Canada-based indie band consisting of Ian Kennedy, Matthew MacInnis, Brett Watterton & Daniel Tal. Their first record entitled The Violet Hour was released in 2008.

6. Elephant from Hamburg, Germany was founded in the late 1970s and gained local success as a very good live rock band. They released five albums and are touring in Northern Germany again.

7. Elephant are Los Angeles, CA, United States-based twin brothers Jackson and Coleman Vrana, a punk-infused hip hop duo who've made their splash in Hollywood as a fearless band breaking many barriers and crossing many lines.  Their music is raw and simple, and the topics covered tend to be taboo on every level.  From tracks like 'Notorious H.I.V.' to 'The Tranny Step' they make LGBT culture look something like that acid trip that nearly killed you.  http://www.elephantwave.com/

8. Elephant were a six piece acoustic band based in Cork, Ireland. Featuring Catherine Ireton and Michael John McCarthy, they released an album, In the Moon in 2004. Also listed under Catherine Ireton & Elephant.

9. Elephant was a three -piece band from Brighton, UK, who released a number of 7" singles, a 10" and one album, called Heyday (1998). The single 'Valeria' was picked up by John Peel, who played it once or twice... and then they just shrugged their shoulders and slipped away, enigmatic until the end. Elephant had all the elements of what many call 'post-punk'.

10. Elephant is a multi-instrumentalist from Dundalk, Ireland.  He released his début album, HyperGiant, in 2015.

11. Elephant is three-piece math rock band from Yamaguchi, Japan. They released one EP and three albums, entitled Innocent Innocence, Basement and Vermillion, the latter in 2020. Elephant plays intricate math rock infused with plenty melodies and powerful hooks. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elephant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.