There are several artists called Elevation.

1. https://soundcloud.com/elevationishere

2. Rock Band
Elevation, the Atlanta-based rock band, consists of members Nathan Smith (Vocals), Andrew Averso (Lead Guitar), Stephen Bailey (Drums), Matt Perez (Bass), and Luke Hickok (Guitar).
Smith, formed Elevation in 2002. The band’s debut album “Strangelove” was recorded in Atlanta in the winter of 2007.  The album was produced by Dan Hannon (Manchester Orchestra, King Konga, Aaron Shust) and mastered by Grammy Award winner Adam Ayan (Nirvana, The Rolling Stones, Foo Fighters, Incubus).  http://myspace.com/elevation

3. Trance Producer
Elevation (real name Michael Targanski) learned how to play the piano and the organ at a very young age. After buying some dj equipment in 2001, making Armin van Buuren and DJ Tiësto inspired tunes in 2002 and doing a major upgrade to his producing equipment in 2003, he later that year submitted his tune Clear Blue Sky to the progressive trance master Markus Schulz. Elevation's breakthrough was in 2004 as the tune was released as Clear Blue on Armin van Buuren's label, Electronic elements.

4. Rock Band
Elevation were a short lived rock trio formed by former 3 Colours Red vocalist/bassist Pete Vuckovic and drummer Keith Baxter after the band split in 1999.  Similar in style to 3CR, with a slightly more electronic feel, they only released one single before 3CR reformed.

5. A 5-piece band from Brisbane, Australia
Existed in the 1990s, including Jim Sinclair (Pangaea), Mike Hall, Chris Bosley, Dave Atkins (Resin Dogs) and Katch. Musically somewhere between Regurgitator and Resin Dogs, though with an accent more on the dub than the rock. Their two albums were "Whoever wants to be born must destroy a world" (1995) and "Indian Root Pills" (1997).

6. An early alias for Funky, Mike-E, Andy C, Ant Miles on RAMM005 released in 1993 on Ram Records <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elevation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.