There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Ellis was a UK rock band in the 1970s that made two albums and was named after the front man/singer Steve Ellis.

2)  Vocalist Steve Ellis scored several top ten hits with Love Affair in the 60s, and his soulful voice saw positive comparisons to those other great Brit vocal 'Steves' of the time (Marriott and Winwood). Ellis were a combo that he put together with Zoot Money in the early 70s. Their first album 'Riding On The Crest Of A Slump' was produced by none other than The Who's Roger Daltrey. It features the brilliantly moody rock ballad 'El Doomo' (with Roger Chapman on backing vocals) - played a lot on Radio 1 at the time. "Riding On The Crest Of A Slump", Ellis's first album, was produced by the Who's Roger Daltrey.  Daltrey's role was taken by Mike Vernon for Ellis's second LP, "Why Not?" (1973).  Ellis felt they'd been ignored in favour of Epic's more established stars like Jeff Beck, Argent and Donovan. 

A remastered edition of Riding On The Crest Of A Slump was reissued in May 2014 by Esoteric Recordings.

3) After moving from Texas to Minnesota at age 16, Ellis founded her own record label, Rubberneck Records. She joined a band while in high school and taught herself how to play guitar. She put out her first solo album, Soft Day in 1996.

Ellis is an independent artist and is still based in Minnesota. She fills her songs with charm, humour, and wit, and is most enjoyed live, when you can experience her laughter and giggles--she gains an early, unusual, and strong rapport with her audience.

Her songs speak of lost loves, new loves, grace, losing your car in a snow storm, or random journies through her life--but may just as easily take a philosophical turn and take you by surprise.

She's currently in the studio preparing her new CD [untitled as of this writing], and she's posting some of her progress on her blog. 

Ellis is often on the cutting edge as far as developing new ways for artist to fund their endeavors, as can be noted by the fundraising for this CD, which allows listeners to "invest" in the project, to be paid back once the disc sells a certain number of copies. More details about this on her website. She also has a program called the Ellis Angels, wherein fans can invest in Ellis herself as a musician, and in exchange listeners receive more frequent updates of her progress, along with monthly songs and videos to keep the Angels occupied until the CD is released.

Ellis is sometimes seen at house concerts across the country, university concert halls, or coffeehouses, with her guitar and mic, ready to play some tunes.

http://www.ellis-music.com/
http://www.myspace.com/ellismusic

4) Influenced by the formidable likes of Coldplay, The Killers, and U2 among other bands, Ellis brings a dynamic Brit sound to the Canadian music scene. The band originally formed by Darren Labrentz, was the result of a few songs he wrote while visiting San Francisco a few years ago. Labrentz was staying in a small apartment on 'Ellis' Street, which appropriately provided a name for the band. 

After spending 2 busy years together, Ellis has built a solid local following and has managed to expand its fan base outside the city by touring to the west coast. The band was invited to perform at the 2005 Western Canada Music Awards in Vancouver, and will be making its first trip to the east in March as part of the 2007 Canadian Music Week Showcase Festival in Toronto. The band has showcased locally on the main stage of the Edmonton Works Art and Design Festival for three consecutive years including opening night and Canada Day performances.  Ellis is proud to announce they have been selected as the SONiC 102.9 Band Of The Month for February 2007. The title gives them regular air play on the major-market radio station in Edmonton, as well as a sponsored showcase performance.

Ellis recorded its self-produced album ‘Bright Light City’ in 2005 and then collaborated with producers Brian Howes (Hinder, Hedley, American Idol) and Joey Moi (Nickelback, Theory of a Deadman) at Mountainview Studios in Vancouver, B.C. to record a four song EP, ‘Breakin’ Into Pieces’.  The band will be back in the studio later this year to record another four song offering.

5) Ellis is a band from Kyiv, Ukraine.

Соня – vocals;
Ромка – guitar, effects;
Володя – drums;
Саша – bass-guitar.

6) From starting his music career as bassist for the Birmingham based 5 piece Thank The Academy, Ellis transitioned into producing Dance Music in early 2016. Quickly finding his feet with tracks such as Duck Sauce and Mojito , the Birmingham based DJ/Producer caught the attention of many in the community, and became a real inspiration for the young EDM audience to inspire them to be creative with their own music. With Future House being his calling card, Ellis followed his extremely strong debut singles with Migraine via NCS, which clocked in a staggering 6.5 million YouTube views and a further 1 million plays on Spotify.

2017 saw numerous collaborations arise for Ellis, including Future House Music artists DLMT and Beau Collins, from which stemmed major support from EDM legends such as Martin Garrix, Oliver Heldens, Tiësto, Don Diablo and Alan Walker at the prestigious Tomorrowland Main Stage. One of his most notable developments was his remix of Ed Sheeran's Shape Of You, which exceeded over 40 million views on YouTube. To mark his rise in 2017, Ellis also opened up for some of the biggest names in EDM, including Tchami, Jax Jones, Brooks and Curbi.

7) Hamilton, Ontario’s Linnea Siggelkow decided to learn guitar at age 12, when she saw the music video for Avril Lavigne’s “Complicated.” As the daughter of a piano teacher, it was her first departure from sheet music. When she began writing her own songs, she found herself drawn towards melancholy. That’s the mood that defines Ellis, the dream-pop project she started in her bedroom circa 2016. Upon moving to Toronto in her early 20s, Siggelkow started playing in local bands, later making her name as a solo performer in the city’s DIY scene, until she eventually adopting the moniker of Ellis (a play on her initials). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ellis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.