Eluveitie is a folk metal band from Winterthur, Switzerland. The founder of this band was Chrigel Glanzmann. The band formed in 2002 and their first EP, "Vên" came out in 2003. They describe themselves as "The new wave of folk metal". The band then released a full-length album, "Spirit" in June 2006. In November 2007, Eluveitie was signed by Nuclear Blast. The first product of the collaboration, "Slania", was released in February 2008. The album peaked at number 35 in the Swiss charts and number 72 in the German charts.

Eluveitie use both traditional Swiss and Celtic instruments alongside electric guitars and drums. Their music is known to be inspired by Gothenburg’s melodic death metal Scene and their lyrics are written in a mix of English and Gaulish. The name of the band comes from a graffito on a vessel from Mantua (ca. 300 BC). The inscription in Etruscan letters reads eluveitie, which has been interpreted as the Etruscan form of the Celtic (h)elvetios (“the Helvetian”), presumably referring to a man of Helvetian descent living in Mantua.

On 14 October 2017, the band announced via social media that they were working on a new album, and were to due to start recording after their Maximum Evocation tour. The band also revealed that they had recorded a single in advance of the tour, at Tommy Vetterli's New Sound Studio, entitled "Rebirth". The single was released on 27 October 2017, along with a music video produced by Wolfgang Wolman and Oliver Sommer. "Rebirth" marked the first non-acoustic record produced by the new line-up. On the band's official Instagram account, it was announced the new album is called Ategnatos. It was released on 5 April 2019. On 2 June 2022, the band released a brand new single "Aidus" along with a music video. On 5 July, the band announced that Michalina Malisz left the band on good terms

Current members:

Chrigel Glanzmann – vocals, mandola, whistles, pipes, gaita, acoustic guitar, bodhrán, harp
Alain Ackermann – drums 
Jonas Wolf – rhythm guitar
Fabienne Erni – vocals, celtic harp, mandola
Kay Brem – bass guitar 
Rafael Salzmann – lead guitar 
Nicole Ansperger – violin 
Matteo Sisti - bagpipes, whistles 
Fabienne Erni - clean vocals, celtic harp

Official Site: http://www.eluveitie.ch
Official Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/eluveitie
Lyrics: http://lyricwiki.org/Eluveitie <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eluveitie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.