ELWING History

The band was created in the winter of 2000 in the city of Kavala-Greece by a group of friends that shared the same love in music and especially in metal music. The name of the band at that time was"MERLIN".At that time the group performed a few appearances in local pubs and concerts. Later in the spring of 2001 and after the retirement of a member - Giorgos Daghalis-who was the bass guitarist, a new member joined the group and that was Panaghiotis Roumeliotis. He starts his participation in the group playing solo-guitar and at the same time Sakis Koutsasis is engaged in vocals.
 
Public appearances are nowmore frequent and the name of the band is now changed to "ELWING". The band decided that it was time to Pracced in the recording of some of their songsand the first song that was taken to be recorded was "Excalibur".Every month a song was recorded and that because the recording was a personalinitiative of the band. Accidentaly, as it usually happens, a well known record company" CULT METAL CLASSICS'' records heard some of the songs and almost immediately released our first album. Responssible for the excellent cover of the CD is the famous designer of the band "MANOWAR" Ken Kelly .
 
The success of the album was beyond every imagination and that due to its powerfulmusic. After that in 20-21 of September 2002 the band participates in a big festival in Athens where names like " ELIXIR", "SACRED STEEL", "WOTAN", "OSTROGOTH", etc. were also present. Meanwhile the synthesis of the group has changed and a new member joined the band TASOS KARAPAPAZOGLOU in vocals and bass guitar. Tasos Karapazoglou used to be a member of the group "NEMESIS" which is quite popular among the Greek fans of metal music. And finally we come to the winter of 2002 when the members of the band start the composition of new songs for the second album.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elwing">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.