Elyose dates back to the 2009 timeframe when French classical vocalist Justine Daaé and bass player Ghislain Henry met in Paris. They put together an EP which got instant acclaim from reviewers and music fans around the world. It was hailed as bringing a defiantly fresh take on gothic-symphonic metal, thanks to a more contemporary interpretation of the sound and some dance-oriented electronics.

This big amount of media attention led the band, while still very young, to hit the road for some well-received live gigs at prestigious venues such as « La Boule Noire » or « La Scène Bastille » in Paris. Elyose shows drew strong attention and developed a solid core of loyal and passionate fans.

2010 was devoted to writing new material and refining the line-up. By December, drummer Patrick Cazu joined the band, and Elyose worked hard over 6 month from January 2011 to finalize its debut album. In May, Elyose played again at « La Scène Bastille » and toured in Belgium.

In the month of July, during 5 weeks, the band recorded and self-produced its debut album « Théogyne » at Piste Rouge Studio in Brussels. This record gets off the beaten track offering metal music that is difficult to classify, which combines classical arrangements and electronics. Enchanting, mischievous atmospheres and heavy incisive guitar riffs follow on from each other. A strong portion of the lyrical work is done in sensuous French, sung by Justine whose vocals are mainly operatic, sometimes soaring, sometimes distilled in a shivering breath.

At the end of 2011, Elyose recruited their last band member, guitarist Antoine Bouchet, to complete the line-up and prepare for live shows.

« Théogyne » was released on March 1st 2012. A few weeks later, Elyose was chosen by THERION as direct support band for the 21 gigs of their european tour in fall, on the occasion of their 25th anniversary and their new album release « Les Fleurs du Mal ». Elyose played in Paris and toured in Belgium before diving into uncharted territory.

This tour, which went across 12 european countries (and Le Bataclan in Paris), was a privilege for the band to get known in optimal conditions (lighting/sound) in front of crowds from 500 to 1300 people. It was also a golden opportunity to refine live performances and come back stronger than ever.

Thanks to the extensive experience and widespread exposure of this tour, Elyose approaches 2013 with great confidence and hopes to get back on stage shortly while the writing of the second album is also being started. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elyose">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.