In Greek mythology, the Elysion Fields serves as the final resting place of the heroic and virtuous men upon whom the gods have bestowed immortality. Enter these five brave souls, destined for greatness and steadfast in their duty: to defend these fields and guard the gates, opening them only for those that prove themselves worthy.

The broodingly epic and melodic metal created by Elysion Fields matches this philosophy. This five piece metal band from Chicago recently released a full-length album titled "New Beginnings" that showcases their obvious talent as musicians and songwriters. Heavy machine gun drum patterns support dynamic soaring guitars, relatable lyrics, commanding vocals, and plenty of sing along choruses.“I write lyrics in a way that any person can relate to what I am talking about, no matter what point of view they share,” says Chris Fernandez, Vocalist. “I blend my vocal sound with the instruments to keep the pace and emotion steady and relative to the theme of the song.”

Elysion Fields knows that their career will be driven forward by new technologies and by their fans. “Being a musician can be hard if you’re not technologically savvy,” explains Josh Woods, Guitarist. “We’re already experimenting with QR codes and using them at our merch table and on our stage scrims. Fans can scan the codes to receive discounts on t-shirts, free downloads, exclusive videos. The possibilities are endless.” All members actively communicate with fans and keep them engaged by hosting contests for free merch, sharing sneak peeks of new music, and sending personalized appreciation letters. “During the writing process, we post videos of new riffs we’ve written. The fans tell us what they like and then we move forward with the song. We want to be able to provide them with the opportunity to feel that they’re a part of the creation process,” says Georgeson.

This young band has already shared the stage with some of the brightest young bands of their genre such as August Burns Red, MyChildren MyBride, Miss May I, Veil of Maya, Misery Index, Texas in July, This or the Apocalypse, Four Letter Lie, We Came as Romans, Oceano, Darkest Hour, Motionless in White, Upon A Burning Body, & Despised Icon. Elysion Fields’ fan-sourced live music video for the track "Legends" was selected to FUSE TV’s On Demand channel with Comcast for the month of December 2010, and their new single “Of Titans” has been selected to be featured in an upcoming horror film by the director of Puppetmaster.

Elysion Fields played four showcases at the SXSW Music Festival including the main stage at the heralded Full Metal Texas party (http://www.fullmetaltexas.com/) and in December 2011 completed a 2-week east coast tour in promotion of their recently released full-length album. The band is currently working on promoting their recent release by continuing touring the US. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Elysion+Fields">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.