The concept of Emaciation was spawned in early 1996. Missouri based avant-garde rock/metal group Gikk, had started in the early 90's & wanted to focus on Heavy Metal. Gikk members Kirby Ray, Stu The Immortal Faris, focused on more brutal back to basics songs mixed with all styles of metal, to regain the magic power. Having grown up on every style of 60's, 70's, 80's, 90's & 2000's metal hard rock, being a founding member of the band Sinister(US) as guitarist in 1985, Kirby Ray had realized this was his lifelong goal. Also to work on several concepts on aspects of the band from the lyrics to the live show. The songs deal with topics such as the paranormal, historical & things we deal with in our daily lives. Starting with very few shows a year going through over 50 member changes, Emaciation has been fortunate to have made many friends in all styles of music & play what we love. 

Live, you'll see the theatrical experience of the show, menacing stage presence, corpse paint, spikes & leather! Old School Metal, Power, Death, Thrash, Black, Glam Rock, Ambient, Classical, Gothic, Dark Wave & Rock are all influences of the band. 

Emaciation has been invited to play at many of the world's best metalfests such as Dynamo festival, Wacken, Black Winter Day, Milwaukee Metalfest . Emac was voted one of the top six bands of the annual City Of Roses Music Fest in Cape Girardeau, MO by the ticket holders to the yearly outdoor event. Bands they have appeared with are: Hypocrisy, Nuclear Assault, Enslaved, Mayhem, King Diamond, Destruction, The Misfits, Death Angel, Cannibal Corpse, Exodus, Zyklon, Opeth, Children of Bodom, Katatonia, Arch Enemy, Usurper, The Chasm, The Ravenous, Krisiun, Hellborn, Limbonic Art, Amon Amarth, M.O.D., Suffocation (US), Windir (Nor), Lullacry (Fin), Naglfar (Swe), Macabre, Anal Blast, Mistweaver (Spain), The Mentors, Incantation, Glen Benton w/ Vital Remains, Malevolent Creation, Gorguts, Ice-T Body Count, Hate Eternal, Impaler, Eddie Money, Christopher Cross & many more. The first logo concept was done by Kirby Ray in 97, developed by Emac official artist, Steve Faris in 98, then the final logo design done in 1998 by the amazing Christophe Szpajdel. Szpajdel is known for doing many great logos such as: Emperor, Enthroned, Desaster, Old Man's Child, Borknagar & countless more. 

Projects with Emac members include: Sinister(US) which was formed in 1985 in Missouri. Mid-West, Nude House of Wacky People, Gikk, The Honey Offering, Steerjockey, Thought Waves, Polyduster, The Dirty 30s, Stage Crew, Chemical Billy, Forn, The Underground Lovesound, The Grimshaws, Blunt Force Trama, Paper Clip Nun & more !

Emaciation is now getting airplay, interviews, positive feedback & interest from around the globe. We are working to become as finely tuned as possible, gain worldwide distribution & reach as many fans of music as we can. Thanks to our kin, the bands, clubs, friends & fans for all your support over the years! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Emaciation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.