Embassy of Silence  /  Adornments to metal / rock from Finland  

Embassy of Silence is a Finnish band on a purposeful mission to create beautiful metal / rock music that makes positive chills run down the spines of the listeners. Catchy melodies filled with grandeur, as well as experimentation are key elements in this musical project. Acoustic guitars also play an important role in the music of EOS. 
 
Ines Lukkanen was a guest female vocalist on the 2007 album of Tero Kalliomäki's band, Saattue, and during the recordings, an idea of an emotional, atmosphere-filled rock/metal project was born. The duo immediately began composing and writing songs, and in the beginning of the 2008, released "Wendigo Winter" promotional CD, which included the songs Lilith Aether, Passion and Savagery and Void. 
The promo got extremely good feedback, and a couple of Finnish national radio stations played some of the songs. 

EoS entered the studio again in 2008, and recorded 4 more songs for the "Pristine" Ep. This CD reflected the heavier, faster and perhaps even darker side of the band's music. 

2009 EoS recorded "Euphorialight", the opus magnum of the band; a self-financed, carefully crafted collection of 11 songs, of which 8 were composed solely for this full-length album. It seeks to show the broad variety of sounds and styles Embassy of Silence is capable of entertaining its listeners with - from morbid to cheerful, from demure to twisted, and from ravishingly beautiful to wild and unhinged. 

2010 EoS signed a record deal with Supernova records / Bonnier Amigo Music Group. Album is going to be released at spring 2010!

All members of Embassy of Silence are established players in the fields of music and performing. They have been or are the members of such bands as, for example, Yearning, Nevernettles and Saattue, and share a burning passion to make music that pleases both the ears of its makers and audience, with ambition and a distinct professional touch. The ultimate target is to make music into a career in the long run.   

 Ines Lukkanen -  Vocals 
 Tero Kalliomäki - Acoustic and electric guitars  
 Samu Lahtinen - Bass 
 Harri Lampinen - Guitar 
 Jaakko Hauru  - Drums 
 Harri Koskela - Keyboards 

You can find us at:

http://www.myspace.com/embassyofsilence  
http://www.embassyofsilence.net

embassyofsilence (at) gmail.com

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Embassy+of+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.