Formed in 1994 and being heavily influenced by bands like Morgoth, Death and Unleashed Embedded from Osnabrück/Germany started as a three-piece, showing their dedication to old-school Death Metal through the release of the “Angels of damnation” demo in 1996. After a two years break and some line-up changes, the band stroke back with the well acclaimed MCD “Fragments of horror” at the very beginning of the new millennium. Followed by a split EP with Disastrous Murmur, some club shows all around Germany and an outstanding live performance at the Fuck The Commerce IV-Festival EMBEDDED were able to strengthen their reputation as a passionate Death Metal outfit. The release of their first full-length “Banished from the light” on Revenge Productions in 2001 pushed the band to a higher level. Highly acclaimed by the European press this album shows a more mature and brutal face of the band featuring ten outbursts of blasting Floridian-kinda Death Metal. The album sold very well and EMBEDDED played the Obscene Extreme-Festival, a couple of club shows and toured Finland as well. But in late 2002 the band was again shattered by some massive line-up changes. After a short period of forced inactivity EMBEDDED returned in 2003. Stronger than ever, the band showcases their new found motivation in doing a video clip of the “Banished…”-Classic “Stench of burning flesh” (featured later on “A severity divine”).

After a year of hard work EMBEDDED recorded their second album with Jörg Uken in his Soundlodge Studios in late 2004. With the definitely heaviest material of their career “ A severity divine” is a riff-driven and ultra-brutal output easily turning every moshpit into chaos. Released in May 2005 and described by the European press as an impressive and ultra-brutal mix of Malevolent Creation, Immolation and Slayer this album got an overwhelming feedback and was able to consolidate EMBEDDED..s status as one of the best german Death Metal outfits.

In 2006 drummer Jörg Heemann was replaced by Markus Renzenbrink. A couple of shows later on including a amazing co-headlining performance at the Fuck The Commerce IX-Festival in 2006 and a successfull mini-tour in the Netherlands and a intense period of working on new songs EMBEDDED again entered the Soundlodge Studios to record their third full-length album. This brand new piece of brutal Death Metal is called "Beyond the flesh" and will be released in early 2009 by DB Agency! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Embedded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.