Emberstorm is a progressive metal band from Västerås, Sweden.

The launch of EmberStorm took place sometime in the late summer of 2006. The founder, Peter Strömberg, had at this time tried to develop several projects that had been more or less serious. However, he felt that the time was ripe to begin some serious music writing. Various pieces of studio equipment were purchased and, without having any professional experience of producing on his own, the recording and mixing of his music began.

At that time, the project did not have any name, nor was there a clear vision of what it would sound like. One month later though, a first version of the song ”Never Ending” was born. Many of the guitar riffs and melodies that had been created and stored throughout the years came rightly to use.

Some time in January, 2007, Peter contacted his old friend and drummer boy Kim Söderberg. Four tracks were by then fully recorded and mixed, and Kim liked what he heard. It turned out that they shared the same opinions concerning what they wanted to achieve and express with their music.

In June 2007, Peter Selin joined as vocalist for EmberStorm. With his roots and inspiration from the 80’s rock, he helped the band to create a bridge from the modern progressive metal towards a more classic oriented sound. Peter Selin was living in a small town called Ekenäs located in Finland, so he had to travel for several hours by boat and thereafter train in order to reach Västerås. The vocals recorded during his audition and our first meeting are the takes you can hear on the entitled track Never Ending.

Later during the summer of 2007, Kim Söderberg decided to leave EmberStorm. The new recruit and long time friend of the band became instead the bass player Anders Janfalk (Current bassist of All Ends). With Anders classical schooling and discipline in music, the songs were improved towards a more technical and heavy sound.

At the end of 2008, the material for the debut album “Memories of Time” was close to completion, and through Peter Selins friend at the record label Lion Music, EmberStorm got in contact with the album art designer Carl-André Beckston from Monowasp. André helped the band by creating a new logotype as well as the 12-page booklet artwork for the debut album. The result of his work can be said to be no less than fantastic and have helped the band towards its true image and style.

The album was released in 300 copies during May 2009, and the response so far has been very good from buyers of the CD as well as reviews. During the summer, EmberStorm also signed up for an account at CdBaby.com, a company distributing music for independent bands and artists. It has now been possible for users of Itunes and Spotify to get a hold of their songs through the internet.

The music of EmberStorm is a mixture of numerous sources of inspiration – lamenting guitars imported from the eighties and elements of various kinds of metal have been merged with classic symphonic orchestrations. Juxtaposed to the rather grandiose and intricate arrangements are lyrics of a personal and more intimate nature. The writing process now continues, in an even more 80’s oriented style than before…

The information is taken from http://www.myspace.com/officialemberstorm <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Emberstorm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.