The story of Embloodyment begins in November of 2006 when Tatto makes a trip to Korea and attend to a local show. Once there he sees a local band’s vocal growling and insulting in spanish at some Yankees in the show. After the show Tatto gets to meet him, whose name is Pedro by the way. Soon after going through a heavy metal night with alcochol they establish a friendship bond. Few months later while keeping in touch by messages and emails, Pedro tells Tatto that he got a job in Madrid and is coming.
With his guitar on his back Pedro arrives at Madrid in Autum of 2008 and right the following spring in between of alcohol, smoke and laughs at Tatto’s living room they decide to make a death metal band. Embloodyment’s first riffs were pounded in that same living room and soon they began to write their first materials. After a long brainstorming in where guitar and bass sound together with alcohol and smoke were always present, the name “Embloodyment” comes up from an old idea Tatto had in his teenage years.
Few later Felipe, member of Dhul Karnain, joins the band as drummer, and the band project starts taking form. They rent a rehearsal local by hour and start jamming more often.
But it was not long when Felipe decides to quit Embloodyment due he was already playing in 3 different bands. Without a moment to think of the effect of losing a drummer, Tatto meets J.C. (Vocals in Spiritual Intervention) in a birthday party who was looking for a band to play drums or do vocals. Of course, after another laugh and drinks session, Tatto tells him that they don’t need vocals but proposes him to join as drummer if he is up to playing in a death metal band. This way in 2010, J.C. officially joining Embloodyment, the band begins to take shape with what would be the actual band members.


Few jam sessions later when the band begins to get in shape, they decide to take a step further and add to the band’s line up another guitar in order to add give more sound power to their materials. And they’re clear of what kind of band member they want; they want a guy who plays good guitars but above all, a guy who really understand the essence of Embloodyment and enjoys doing music. Therefore JC proposes Victor (Vic) who played the guitar with him in Spiritual Intervention and at that time was not playing in any band. They invited Víctor to one their jam sessions. And after another alcohol and smoke session, he got to like the band’s shit and the next day he appeared on the door with his guitar.
This way in 2011 Embloodyment’s completes it line up and starts to work hard on its materials. They start by arranging already finished materials and writing new ones. Following the band comes up with some show offers with friend bands and starts to play metal locals in Madrid. Then they decide to record the first demo which copies are given to metal heads coming to their shows. Bit by bit the band gets to be kwon among other extreme metal bands and begins to get shows outside Madrid too.
At the end of 2013, Embloodyment decides to record a bit more serious demo with materials they’ve been performing on stage. The demo would be recorded and produced at the band’s rehearsal studio and given the named “Let it bleed”
From then on, the band decides to present its demo work in different local shows in Madrid and other cities (Salamanca, Leon, Cuenca, Guadalajara, Badajoz…) with other Spanish and international bands (Agresiva, Mind Holocaust, E-force, Estampida, Descomunal, Sheratan, Gloom, Rancor, Vermis De Inferni, Matadero, Omission, Metal Legion, Mortem Tirana, Stillnes, Abbadon Incarnate, Disaffected etc.). While performing in shows they still keep working on new materials.
In summer of 2015 the band gets in studio to record its first album, “The One Before the Last”, which starts with intro, followed by 7 burtal themes and ends with an outro. The songs are recorded at VAST Studio by Alvaro, Muri, Saul and Marcos who have work as live sound engineers for well known musicians as Raphael, Malu, Alejandro Sanz, Estopa, etc. The artwork is done by Ricardo Caballero (www.rcaballero-illustrator.com).
Besides recording at the studio, the band comes up with full idea for a videoclip as promotion for “The One Before the Last”. The video would be made by the band itself with the help of some friends in doing the makeup, filming, production, edition and arrangements. The idea for this video was clear. It had to be in Z level movie style!!
Nowadays they are promoting, bursting their ass off in rehearsals in order to give their best at the showcase and the rest of stages.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Embloodyment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.