Energy, excitement, stage presence, dedication, passion and love all combine to make a good live performance. This is what the members of Embrace Eternity deliver and promote at every show they have. Always pushing hard to promote themselves and their band – “you will not regret seeing Embrace Eternity live; regardless of the genre of music you listen to”.

With having an amazingly produced music video; a scheduled 2010 album release; and being associated with Brisbane's independent record label Demonicon Records – “there is no turning back for this group of determined musicians”. With their hearts, attitudes and passions set in the right gear – its straight on from here for the boys in an attempt to reach their dreams and to become as successful as possible, while spreading their message of love as musicians for their music.

Embrace Eternity was formed in the summer of 2006 with the intention of bringing a new genre of music to the scene. After prematurely disbanding in the beginning of 2008, the band reformed with new members, a new style, as well as a new approach to music in the middle of the same year.

With influences, backgrounds and personalities ranging from 36 Crazyfists, Gamma Ray, Rage Against The Machine, Metallica and Mudvayne – “one cant exactly put a finger on the exact genre of sound”, however it is definitely evident that all of these characteristics combine to “create an earth shattering sound and energy”.

The guitarist, Adrian, adds that “being in a band is not about making music; its about being a family and sharing an unbreakable bond with each other. And this is what we share among the 5 of us. This is what helps drive us to be successful. We are determined and motivated in every way that is possible. I would never give this band up for anyone, if there ever is a closer bond than being a family – then we definitely have it.”. . . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Embrace+Eternity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.