Actually there are/were several bands with this name.


1. EMBRYON was Georgian Alternative / Hardcore female band from Tbilisi (1999 - 2002).

Members:

Nina Leshchenko - Vocals, Guitar
Maka Bakradze - Bass
Sophio Pruidze - Drums

The band was founded in 1999 in Tbilisi, Georgia by teenager classmates Nina Leshchenko, Maka Bakradze and Sophio Pruidze (all of them are born in 1983).

Band became quite popular for their all-English lyrics and fresh sound in Georgian rock scene. The hit song was "Player In The Fire" from the 2001 album "Born".

After their split-up in 2002 Nina Leshchenko formed own band "Nina's Dimension".

EMBRYON received "Best Band" award at international festival “In the City” (Manchester, UK) in October 2002.

English rock journalist John Robb wrote of EMBRYON, “The band's appearance at In The City oozed a confidence that belied their short existence and their raw power and top tunes spat ‘move over Kittie’ whilst proving that making great rock music is not just the preserve of the more traditional Anglo-American axis” (Robb 2002).

Examining the social, stylistic and expressive aspects of their music, as well as the complexities of the ways in which EMBRYON and its vocalist and songwriter Nina Leshchenko have subverted the ideals of patriarchal morality and standard feminine behavior derived from this morality.

The lyrics reflect the tension between the urge towards being a Georgian, to belong to the nation and the simultaneous desire to break free from the tradition.

EMBRYON’s anti-conservative orientation is expressed through its intense, loud electric sound and musical style. Band’s music incorporates elements of hardcore, alternative rock, and punk. The girls used the words “heavy music” most often to characterize their music, and to describe the emotional intensity and powerful sound of its playing and singing.

The influences (or rather inspirations) for EMBRYON were much broader, including such diverse artists and bands as The Beatles, Metallica, Janis Joplin, and especially Red Hot Chili Peppers and Guano Apes, the latter being a German band whose lead singer Sandra Nasic’s style was one of Nina’s many vocal inspirations.

The “heaviness” of the music is created by Nina’s vocal style, which alternates between singing and a specific roaring sound. This style in combination with the use of short singleline guitar motives in upward motion creates an impression of a non-lyrical, raw, impulsive and aggressive sound. The heaviness is also due to the frequent use of a distorted guitar timbre. The emotional atmosphere of the music is largely determined by the song-writing style of Nina, who often alternates between regular and irregular rhythms in her songs, an alternation deriving naturally from the flow of words when she is in the process of writing her word-tunes. She does not try to adjust the words to square, even-beat rhythmic structures; rather the rhythm and metre is adapted to the flow of words.

2. Embryon | Electronic Duo

Embryon is a collaboration of artists Cyberoptics and Unknown Space Pioneer.

The goal of Embryon is to capture our inspirations into a form of the most quality and mature sound we can give.

A notable release is "Embark" a five track EP with collaborations from Captain Panic! and Systek
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Embryon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.