Embrace is the name of more than one artist:
1) five-piece alternative rock band from Brighouse, West Yorkshire, England
2) a short-lived post-hardcore band from Washington, D.C., USA
3) a collaboration between dutch trance producers Ferry Corsten and Raz Nitzan
4) a Gothic Metal band from Toronto, Canada

1) Embrace are a five-piece alternative rock band from Brighouse, West Yorkshire, England, consisting of brothers Danny McNamara (singer) and Richard McNamara (guitarist) as well as Steve Firth (bassist), Mickey Dale (keyboardist), and Mike Heaton (drummer). 

With three #1 albums, six top ten singles, sold out arena shows and well over a million album sales behind them, as well as being chosen to record the official England World Cup song, Embrace were on the crest of a wave when they suddenly vanished without a trace. 
In April 2014 after eight years of silence, Embrace released their first studio album since 2006. Conveying a rawer, darker sound whilst still keeping their signature anthems and huge choruses. The self-titled album Embrace on Cooking Vinyl reached No 5 in the UK Charts on release.

In 2018, Firth and Heaton co-formed the punk rock band Land Sharks.

Embrace have released six studio albums so far:
- The Good Will Out (1998)
- Drawn From Memory (2000)
- If You've Never Been (2001)
- Out of Nothing (2004) 
- This New Day (2006) 
- Embrace (2014)
- Love Is A Basic Need (2018)
They have also released two compilation albums: 
one of singles — Fireworks (2002) and one of B-sides — Dry Kids (2005).
Official Website

2) Embrace was a short-lived post-hardcore band from Washington, D.C., often cited as pioneering the Revolution Summer movement and by extension indie pop/indie rock, from the summer of 1985 to the spring of 1986. The group was primarily noteworthy because of its well-known members, joining Ian MacKaye of Minor Threat and The Teen Idles with guitarist Michael Hampton, drummer Ivor Hanson, and bassist Chris Bald, all former members of the pioneering band Faith. Hampton had also played in S.O.A. with Henry Garfield (later known as Henry Rollins). All four members had been involved in popular and influential bands in the nascent D.C. punk scene since the late 1970s. The only album released by the quartet was their self-titled album Embrace.

For hardcore icon MacKaye, Embrace represented a transitional project between the short and fast sound of his youth and the later melodic tones of his current work (after his often maligned Egg Hunt project with Dischord Records co-founder Jeff Nelson, and the Ministry crossover Pailhead). MacKaye eventually teamed up with former members of Rites of Spring to form the long-running punk outfit Fugazi, while Hampton earlier played with Fugazi’s Guy Picciotto, as well as Embrace’s co-producer Edward Janney, in One Last Wish. Bald moved on to the band Ignition, and drummer Ivor Hanson paired up with Hampton again in 1992 for Manifesto.

3) Embrace is a new collaboration between dutch trance producers Ferry Corsten and Raz Nitzan, the latter best known as part of the vocal team Raz & Adrian

4) Embrace is a Gothic Metal band from Toronto, Canada. They play a heavy, "doomy" version of Gothic Metal. Formed in 1994. They released an album titled Coven the Eternal in 1995. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Embrace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.