Embryotomy   were formed in 2001. Back then the band had 4 members: Zoran (v), Darko (g), Zlatko (d) and Dejan (g). At that time they had problems with finding a suitable bass player. Because  of his college obligations Dejan (g) left the band and an excellent new replacement was found. Cobe (g) joined the band in November 2001. The first official gig of the band was held in the club Kopakabana in Skopje with Panmixia, Dedicated For Life and Nihilist. After the coming of Cobe a few more songs were created which was their set for the next few shows. For some time they couldn't find a bass player so their friend Vlatko (Cole) accepted to play in the band as a session player. So in that way for the first time in its history Embryotomy had a complete line-up. With that line-up they played in the club Vulkan on the mini metal fest with Temyan, Jason and Timesand. After that another show in the same club was following, and one more on the Fusion Fest in Oteshevo. They gladly accepted the offer to play on the Hellhammer Festival in Serbia which was a great success for them because they had a chance to play shoulder to shoulder with many appreciated and well known bands from the world underground metal scene. They tripled their rehearsals, but at the end the effort was worthwhile because they left very good impressions and were well accepted and supported by the fans. As a warming up for the fest Embryotomy played on a gig in Bitola five days before with the Bulgarian death metal band Enthrallment who also played on the fest later on. With this line-up they've made two more gigs; the first one in the club Vulkan with Dedicated For Life and the Serbian technical brutal death metal band Sacramental Blood, and the second one in Prilep which was the last show for Darko (g). Because of some very serious medical problems he had to leave the band. However he continued to work with the band but now as their promoter. Their bass player Cole also left the band (he was not a permanent bassist after all) so tne new line-up was formed.The new bass player was Goce (b). With this line-up they had performed on the Undersun Fest in Ohrid and the Rock Fest in Skopje. They also once again proudly presented the  metal u/g scene of Macedonia with two more gigs in Serbia and Montenegro. The first one was held in Krusevac together with Sacramental Blood and In Cold Silence and the second one was held in Cacak together with Fancy Graveyard, Litter Infection and Sacramental Blood. Latest line-up change has been made, the band managed to find a bass player that lives in Skopje-Miki with whom they devastated the capital of Serbia-Belgrade and Novi Sad. They played along with the Bosnian Death metal act Toxicdeath, Amon Din, Sacramental Blood and Tales of Dark. Meanwhile the band started working on their first official demo recording 'Execution of Fallacy'. First time appearing in Skopje with the new quartet line-up was at the 1st of April 'Extreme Metal Masquerade' organized by Mirakuli na Grozomorata, playing with Victim Yield, Vinterthrone and HC Grinders Tank Warning Net.The band then had a chance to play with the Austrian death metal combo Possession on 10 of May in Skopje. Unfortunately Miki had a serious health concerning problem and Embryotomy were forced to play as a trio. In order not to have any more problems like this one, they invited Meto to join them as a second guitarist and he gladly accepted. 'Execution of Fallacy' was released this summer of 2005 by Darko's distro/label Terror Blast and it repersent the first  brutal death metal release from Macedonia  ever!!!The band's hard work supposed to be crowned on 16 of August in Belgrade, where the guys were   invited to open a gig for the Brazilian death metal masters KRISIUN.But, Krisiun never made it to Belgrade.
Victim Yield and Embryotomy played along with the Death metal band from Belgrade - Heretical Guilt.Embryotomy recorded this show and unofficial free DVD entitled 'Live Execution' was created. Belgrade again witnessed their death metal on 24.04.2006 where the guys opened for the cult SINISTER!!!
They are in the studio right now preparing their first full lenght album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Embryotomy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.