Adele Emeli Sandé (born 10 March 1987: Sunderland, England and raised in Alford, Aberdeenshire, Scotland) known by her stage name Emeli Sandé, is a soul and R&B recording artist and songwriter signed to Virgin Records.

Sandé made her singing career debut in 2009 after appearing on the track she wrote for Chipmunk's first debut single, "Diamond Rings". The single charted at No. 6 on the UK Singles Charts, making it Chipmunk and Sandé's first ever Top 10 Hit. She later appeared on another single singing guest vocals, after collaborating with Wiley on his comeback single "Never Be Your Woman", the single charted at number-eight on the UK Singles Charts becoming Sandé's second consecutive Top 10 Single.
Sandé decided against using the name Adele Sandé, due to Adele's growing success, so used her middle name instead. She revealed: "I changed it as soon as Adele came out. I just thought, 'You've kind of taken the [name] now', so I went with my middle name. She was just getting bigger and bigger, so I thought I just really need it."

A former medical student, Sandé appeared as a guest vocalist on Professor Green's 2011 UK #1 single Read All About It and soon went on to achieve her own chart success with her first solo release Heaven, which debuted in the UK Singles Chart at #2. Her debut album Our Version of Events was released on 12th February 2012. The album includes the singles Next To Me, Daddy and My Kind Of Love. 

Before branching out on her own Sandé had already had a taste of chart success having collaborated with rapper Chipmunk on his song Diamond Rings, and then with Wiley on Never Be Your Woman. She has also written for or collaborated with artists including Let Go, Let It Rain, Susan Boyle and Cheryl Cole.

In a major feature in their Saturday Review paper, The Times declared Emeli Sandé "The Voice of 2012". The New York Times said “Ms. Sandé has a perspective-altering voice, clear and brassy and weapons-grade”. Fellow artists have also proclaimed their admiration, including Alicia Keys, “I just love her style and her flow – super raw.”, and Adele, "How incredible is she?".

Our Version of Events is the UK's biggest selling debut album of 2012.

Sandé appeared at the London 2012 Olympics opening ceremony. She performed Abide with Me

www.emelisande.com.
www.facebook.com/emelisande
www.twitter.com/emelisande <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Emeli+Sand%C3%A9">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.