The Emerging Chaos band was born in May 2009, consisting of Jorge Silva - drums, Pedro Raul -Bass and Lucas Reis - guitar. During the rest of 2009 the band rehearsed and composed at a good rhythm and experimented new members (guitars and vocals) but without any luck. 
In the beginning of 2010, still without a vocalist, the band started to record at CACAV Studios the 4 first tracks. During those sessions were recorded the following tracks: "Why we fight" , " Infected life", "Inglorious world" and "Killing Frost".
The dreadful search for a capable vocalist was hard and only in November 2010 Hugo Hellsinger joined the band.
The first half of 2011 was complete with rehearsals and by the birth of new songs.
The first Emerging Chaos live act occurred at Vínicola Bar in Barreiro on the 20th of August 2011 .

Late on the year 2012 the search for a second guitar player was over when Eduardo Gonçalves joined the band.

The recordings of the debut EP "Decay of Mankind" started earlier on the year of 2013 but were put on hold by the exit of Hugo Hellsinger.The band live dates of that year were made with Osvaldo Serra on the vocals.

After a long search a new singer joined the band in November 2014: Jim Gäddnäs from the iced earths of Finland!

The first months of 2015 were spent with the vocal recordings and in March Eduardo left the band. The band continued as a quartet.
The recordings of the EP finally ended in April 2015 and EP "Decay of Mankind" was launched on May 2015!

The debut album, "The roots of lunacy", was released independently in 2018. The album is characterized by fast-paced thrashy, blackened guitar riffs, an interesting and innovative rhythm section, and screamy melodic vocals. The lyrical themes are influenced by societal delusions and the problems they evoke in the aftermath. These elements are arranged cleverly through dynamic songwriting and the end result is nine tracks of lunacy. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Emerging+Chaos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.