There are a few bands using the name "Emissary". Please add the description of the other bands on here as well.

1 Emissary from USA (Las Vegas, Nevada/Medford, Oregon) formed in 1989.
2 Emissary from USA (Providence, Rhode Island) formed in 1989.
3 Emissary from Canada (Montreal, Quebec) formed in June 1993.
4 Emissary from USA (New York) formed around 1993.
5 Emissary from Finland (Loimaa) formed in 1997.
6 Emissary from UK (Westhoughton, Bolton) formed in 1998.
7 Emissary from UK (Newtownabbey, Antrim) formed in 1999.
8 Emissary from USA (San Antonio, Texas) formed in 2003.
9 Emissary from USA (Brooklyn, New York) formed in 2005.
10 Emissary from Scotland (Edinburgh) formed in 2011
11 Emissary from UK (Bristol), Christian worship band.

Scroll down to see the other Emissary bios:

1. Emissary was a traditional/melodic heavy metal band, originally formed in Las Vegas in '89. Emissary was reformed by Jym Harris after relocated to Medford, Oregon in 1993. The band took a long hiatus from 1996 to 2008 before returning with a new line-up. Since November of 2010, they have split up.

3. Emissary was a heavy metal band from Montreal, Canada formed by Stephane Fania and Robert Kourie immediately after the demise of Boize in June 1993. After finding Rjeen (Xavier Briand from Sarok Saroya) and hiring Joey Moreno to come in on drums, they spent the next month writing the material for their first EP.

On July 3rd, Emissary played their first show; a benefit concert for LUPA called Concert Populaire at Parc Ladauversiere in Montreal. Emissary were the headliners of the show, and therefore played last, by that time past midnight. Unfortunately, after only playing the first two songs of their set, the management kicked them off the stage for being "too loud and too heavy", which almost caused a crowd rebellion in disappointment. Upon bringing their equipment back to their jam space on Jarry that night, they were shocked to find out that the building next to theirs had burned in a devastating laundry store explosion. Their lot had to be vacated to clean and store material, so from then on, they would rehearse at H.Q. Studio on Parc Ave.

On July 26th they recorded their first EP at H.Q. Studio on an 8-track with a 1-inch tape. The three songs would be brought to S.N.B. to get mastered, and in the meanwhile Steph worked on the artwork. In late August 1993, “Reach In” was released.

Xavier would go on a trip to L.A. in September, where he took the EP to attempt to find distribution. When Xavier came back, they had found a new, left-handed drummer, Patrick. Pat's style was more technical, using drum triggers, double drum bass pedals and china hats, and Emissary started working on some of its most melodic material. A second EP was in the works, including the songs "Find", "Something to Say" and "Let's Pretend" (none of which have ever been released). However this plateau wouldn't last very long, as Rjeen and Pat both wanted to go in a different direction and both left in the spring of 1994. Rjeen joined the band "Mother of Pearl" and Pat was replaced by Alan on drums. 

Steph decided to take over vocal duties and the trio started writing completely new material and demoing it on 4-track tapes to prepare for a full-length album. By the summer of 1995, they had written nearly 15 songs, but Alan was also not working out and he couldn't keep up with the music. After placing an ad in a newspaper, Emissary found Robbie Tucker as their new drummer.

Steph, Bob and Robbie decided to rearrange and re-orient all the material written with a slightly more polished sound and wrote another ten songs. They continued demoing material on 4-tracks, for which they selected the best 18 songs to chose from for the album. Late 1995 also brought the first website, a brand new logo and even a sticker design to get the word out about the upcoming album. But with the usage of internet, they soon found out about multiple other bands using the name "Emissary" and decided they were better off changing name to "Breaking Violet". This change occurred in February 1996 and only a month later, Robbie would quit the band. For the rest of the story, please read the Breaking Violet biography. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Emissary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.