There are three bands and one electronic producer with the same name:

1. Empathy was an emo band from Royal Oak, Michigan that was an important part of the midwest emo movement, in the mid 90s. They formed in the summer of 1993, initially as a trio with Kevin on guitar, Nathan Miller on bass and Graham Pawluk on drums. In August of 1993 Jay Palumbo joined on vocals and in October Mike came on second guitar. On January 22nd, 1994 this line-up recorded four songs at Sound Camp Studio, three of which were used for their first 7" "...Of Innocence" on Element Records in May 1994. Kevin quit the band, but was replaced by Drew Cramer.

In June of 1994, they recorded all the material which would be used for their album "Under the Lost Smile" at Woodshed Studio, but could not settle a record deal until much later in the year when they were approached by friend Mike Warden of Conquer the World Records. The album was re-mixed in December of 1994 and released on CD and 12" LP in early 1995. Later that year they were paired with another midwest emo band that was making its mark, Enkidle. "Vinyl for Fools" was released on 7" in mid 1995, and would later on be repressed on CD by Initial Records.

In 1996, the band formed their own record label, Cascade Records, and would release albums by Thoughts of Ionesco, 7000 Dying Rats, Chelsea's Gone Under as well as co-release their last EP "I Need" with Conquer the World on CD and 12". The band broke up very shortly after this.

2. Empathy was punk-rock band from Czech Republic. They were established in 2003 in small town Bruntál at north part of CR. They were inspired especially in Nirvana and legendary Czech band Vypsaná fixa. There were some changes in the group - at first frontman and a guitarist was Tom Fil Hrabal, a solo guitar played Martin Mikulec, a bassguitar played Milan Bacil Buček and drumer was Martin Tříško. Afterwards Martin Tříško was fired and instrumets has changed - a drum set played Martin Mikulec, Milan Bacil Buček turned into guitarist and a bassguitar played Martin Pospíšil - violinist from their folk alter-band Časem. In 2005 band disbanded cause of personal disagreements and now most of exmembers has their own bands or projects.

3. Empathy is also the musical pseudonym for one of the founding members and primary songwriters of psychetronic rock band Specimen 37, formed in Boston, MA, U.S.A. in 1997].

4. Empathy is the solo work of electronic producer Stuart Elding. Born and raised in Boston, UK, Stuart was surround by diverse music from an early age which shows in the music he produces today. The main musical output of Empathy is chillout breaks, probably due to the influences of Leftfield, The Prodigy and Hybrid, but often the breaks are fused with anything from laidback jazz grooves to high energy house tracks.  In 2004 eleven of Empathy's most successful tracks were released as the CD album 'Hiemal' which is also available through iTunes and many other digital distribution outlets. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Empathy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.