There are several artists using the name Emphasis

1. Emphasis is four-piece post-rock / post-metal genre inspired band from Čakovec, Croatia

current lineup:
Ivan - bass guitar / samples
Danko - guitar
Radek - drums
Dino - guitar

Discography:

LP "Elements of Morrow" (2008) released on Asiluum
LP "Gliding Over All" (2013) released on Geenger Records
LP "Black. Mother. Earth" will be released at the end of 2016

The name of the band is 'Emphasis', just because at first we did a lot of experimenting, especially in the early days, trying to learn what we like and generally how to express ourselves through music. After a couple of years we noticed that we were actually having lots of variations, where songs went from dead silence to ending somewhere in a very loud, spacey trauma or even sometimes in aggressive, melancholic parts. A lot of times we tried to use ambient sounds and speeches from movies and documentaries.
The first demo, 'Elements of Morrow', was recorded in studio in just eight hours, and after a long period of time we managed to put ourselves together and finally record the first full album, named 'Gliding Over All'.
Well, all the songs are connected to give some kind of a story and again, something that we as individuals experienced in that time period and which put us together again. Eight songs, eight journeys, endings and ideas for further music making.
Simply, it's like the life cycle, where everything is connected with something that we don't often realize at first, and it turns out that once again everything goes in circles (not necessarily, but often). We also managed to visually present the story in our abstract way on the cover design. Album 'Gliding Over All' is released through Geenger Records on February 14. 2013. The album will first be available on our bandcamp, for streaming and downloading.
The download version will feature a high resolution of the cover design, printable for posters. The physical album is available in digipack form.

Emphasis are working on their 3rd album, called "Black. Mother. Earth" and will be released iat the end of this 2016 through Geenger records.

https://emphasiscakovec.bandcamp.com/

2. Emphasis is an experimental screamo/emoviolence band from New Jersey

https://emphasis.bandcamp.com/

3. Emphasis is a Dutch Hardcore DJ

discography:
Feb 2007 - Versatile
Dec 2008 - Back On The Job

Official Website
http://www.djemphasis.nl/

4. Emphasis is a group of two drum & bass producers, DJs and brothers from Vienna, Austria.

5. Emphasis was an Italian Progressive rock artist. They have released a split LP with La Statale 17 entitled Rock Scene at 1978 through the label Alto Adige.

6. Female fronted progressive metal act EMPHASIS was formed in 2010 in Estonia by bassist Katya Gritskova and guitarist Pavel Korotaev. Their music is a mix of classical harmonies, heavy guitar riffs and powerful operatic vocals of their gorgeous front lady Anna Ganina. For the last five years, the band played dozens of shows in Baltics and Finland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Emphasis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.