EMPHERIS was spawned upon the ashes of an ancient necrothrash beast ERIS, ravishing this planet from 1995 to 1997. ERIS came back in middle 2003 in almost primary line-up (Empherion (guit./voc.), Fryta (bass) and Cruiser (dr.)), but was renamed shortly after, into EMPHERIS creating the new reality of darkness between old companions in new times. In march 2004 band has recorded its first reh./demo “966”, earning simultaneously vocalist from Silesian thrashers HELLISH – Adrian. After “966”, Fryta left the regiment, but was replaced by Nymphobh very soon. Year 2004 was surely the time of changes for the band, cause in September long time pounding devastator was replaced on drums by Helvete. Before Cruiser left the band, demo “A Twilight of the Ancient Victories” was recorded. For the next 3 years Empherion, Adrian, Nymphobh and Helvete were an optimal line-up to breed the crusade of EMPHERIS, recording such materials as first full length album “Ancient Necrostorms”, an EP “Tales from Crematoria”, second full-length “Regain Heaven”, “A Tribute to Black Desires” tribute album or a lot of split releases with such destroyers as HELLISH, MORBID EXECUTION,  REVELATION OF DOOM or EMBRIONAL. EMPHERIS also performed many live shows in many places in a great company of INQUISITION (Col), HELLSAW, BESATT, SALTUS, REVELATION OF DOOM, WITCHMASTER, MEMEMBRIS, ADULTERY, EMBRIONAL, PYORRHOEA and others. Besides, EMPHERIS’s ranks since 2004 are being forced by almighty Emperor of Visions – Jary, who at all costs vomited a pictured saga of the Serpent Lord – the mark of EMPHERIS, significantly left his mark upon band’s inspirations and subjectivity. Year 2008 had to be the turning point in a history of EMPHERIS in a result of two things: first – change of activity mode; in a half of 2007 Helvete was replaced by Wojt, who performed many rehearsals and shows in the line-up of EMPHERIS becoming shortly after its full member. Unfortunately, the situation in early 2008 enforced Wojt to temporarily left the squadron of death and treated EMPHERIS as in the worst nightmare. This had converted EMPHERIS into studio project denying live shows and rehearsals in its activity; second – Jary’s death. The Almighty Lord of Visions abandoned the necrothrashing regiment in summer 2008 leaving EMPHERIS without the chance to collect the future masterpieces signed by Jary. Every next future band’s release is intended to appear in memory of this man… …but the story continues… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Empheris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.