Hometown: Perth, Australia
https://www.facebook.com/empireslaidwaste
Members are :
Drums - Scotty
Vocals - Pete
Guitar - Adam
Guitar - Jonas
Bass - Tomislav

We are Empires Laid Waste, we are a melodic metal band from perth,.... brought together through a common lust for Metal and heavy music alike Three of us are from the hills and the other two from the city.

After finally releasing our first album in October of 2010, we are already 6 songs into our new record which we plan to have recorded and released by June/July of 2011. With new songs already being played live, we are stoked with the response from the live shows and feel our newer material is yet another step above "The Age Of Decay". 

Stay tuned, this new stuff will tear you apart, we promise!!!

The band formed in march 08 founded by Adam (guitar) and Trevor (bass), We started putting empires together after we became mates playing in the short lived band spate of attacks, our mission,... to find a bunch of guys with the same likes on a musical scale as well as a personal scale,... So,.. Adam got started writing some songs and we started looking for some members, Trev got Pete our singer in to try out for the job, Turns out the he can belt out the brutal ones,... and doesn't mind hittin the high ones too,... So we welcomed him to the band,...

Our drummer Scott is one of the coolest kids goin round, His melodic style of drumming is exactly what we were looking for and he seems to compliment everything we throw at him musically, at 20 he's the youngest in the band,... He's definately the drive in our sound, some one once said "He hits his drums like a gorrilla on crack"... Chops galore,.... Along came Jonas,.... Hmmm,.... Jonas,... He thinks he's sexy but we dont have the heart to tell him the truth,.... ha ha,.. Just kiddin mate,... He joined the band last and has had a definate impact on defining our sound,... Some smooth lead work and tight rythms are what this kid is about, This guys got some chops and isn't afraid to use em,... so the ladies say, ha ha,...

The line up was then complete, time to make some music!!! We're constantly writing so we are developing steadily as a band, after being together for over 2 years now we are satisfied with the sounds we are creating and look forward to writing better material each time round. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Empires+Laid+Waste">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.