There are (or were) at least 14 bands called Empire including a podcast produced by the UK film magazine Empire.

1) EMPiRE, were a Japanese female idol group which debuted in August of 2017 and disbanded 2nd June 2022. They were launched as a joint project between the record label avex and Watanabe Junnosuke's agency, WACK, going by the name "Project aW" before debut. The founding members were YUKA EMPiRE, MiDORiKO EMPiRE, MAYU EMPiRE, YU-Ki EMPiRE, and YUiNA EMPiRE. They debuted on the album WACK & SCRAMBLES WORKS on 6 December with the song EMPiRE is COMiNG.

At the conclusion of WACK AUDiTiON CAMP 2018, two new members were added to the group; MAHO EMPiRE and MiKiNA EMPiRE. At the same time, YUiNA EMPiRE was permanently transferred to sister group BiS. EMPiRE released their first album, THE EMPiRE STRiKES START!!, on 11 April. They followed this up with the release of the EP EMPiRE originals on 26 August.

At the beginning of 2019, on 29 January, YUKA EMPiRE announced her graduation from EMPiRE. The group released their debut single (and final release featuring YUKA), Pierce, on 27 February. On 4 March, YUKA officially left EMPiRE following the conclusion of the group's 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE live. She was subsequently replaced by NOW EMPiRE following the conclusion of WACK AUDiTiON CAMP 2019.

On May 30th 2022 it was announced the EMPiRE would disband following their June 2nd DOPE MAGiC TOUR show at LINE CUBE SHIBUYA. At the end of the show, it was announced that all current members would form a new group, ExWHYZ. The group's final tour, under the name ex-EMPiRE, will be held in July and August 2022.

Members:
MiDORiKO EMPiRE (2017 - 2022)
MAYU EMPiRE (2017 - 2022)
YU-Ki EMPiRE (2017 - 2022)
MAHO EMPiRE (2018 - 2022)
MiKiNA EMPiRE (2018 - 2022)
NOW EMPiRE (2019 - 2022)

Former Members:
YUiNA EMPiRE (2017 - 2018)
YUKA EMPiRE (2017 - 2019)

2) Empire (formerly known as Empires Erased) was a progressive deathcore band from New York City. Their line-up consisted of:

Paul Bennardo: Vocals
Mauricio Jorquera: Guitar
Dan Pandaa: Guitar/Vocals
Julian Martinez: Bass
Jeremy Lopez: Drums

The band released their debut album The Decadent Movement, a 7-song EP, in 2010 and subsequently disbanded at the end of the year.

3) Empire were an early 80's punk rock band featuring the legendary Derwood and Mark Laff of Generation X and released the classic 'Expensive Sound' LP in 1981.

Mixing indie and post-punk sounds they have been compared to early Joy Division and The Cure as well as more obvious bands like Rites of Spring. The album was re-released on CD in 2003, featuring 11 bonus tracks. 

4) A Hip Hop group-.Empire- Think the Boot Camp half Wu-Tang, Adam Bomb, Tony “Scandalis” Ranks, Tek Man, The Rhyme Animal, Talksick, Mezziah, Keele, Friday, Doc, Chem, Jooker and Craven Morehead have been terrorizing wackness sine before the turn of the millineum and are going to GET IT with their summer 2008 debut. Playing The Next Shit showcase. NOW Magazine March 2008

Empire- S.A.R.S. (Sick Artist Runnin’ Shit) The series 1-6 The digustngly talented crew has been assembling a Tony Touch 50-MC-style street hop swarm of showcases for years. A particular favorite Vol.2 where Adam Bomb permanently steels Freeway’s “What we do” with his jaw dropping flow. NOW Magazine- January 2009 Top 10 Toronto Mixtapes (Pick 3)

5) A progressive rock movement from Australia , featuring:
Jarrod Beaver - Lead Guitar
Jordan White - Rythm Guitar
Joshua Quinn - Bass Guitar
Jordan Giblett - Drums

They are as yet to release any material.

6)  Also a hardcore band from Colombus, Ohio US.

7)  Empire is a hard rock band from Czech republic. http://www.empireband.cz/
Current lineup:
Radek Kurc - lead vocals, guitar
Dario Sapienza - guitar, vocals
Michal Žďánský - bass, vocals
Marcel Vacínek - drums

8)  Empire is a heavy rock super group project brought together by guitarist Rolf Munkes in 2001 and having released 4 albums so far.
Past members include Tony Martin, Lance King, Don Airey and Gerald Kloos.

The current line-up is:
Doogie White - Vocals
Neil Murray - Bass
Mike Terrana - Drums
Rolf Munkes - Guitars


9) Empire were a New Wave/Sophisti-pop band from Liverpool who signed to EMI Parlophone in 1987. The three original members were Mark Kemp, John Uriel and Les Manning. The following few years saw them tour extensively in colleges and universities around the UK. Empire also completed many support tours in 1988, including, Wax, Curiosity Killed the Cat, T'Pau and Bros. The band released 3 singles, 'Talk Free', 'This Is My Word' and 'My Imagination' with the best showing in the charts being number 64. The Album, 'Who Starts the Stopping It' was recorded at Abbey Road Studios in London, Amazon Studios in Liverpool and in LA, but was never commercially released. Uriel passed away in 2005.

10)  An obscure Krautrock band that released 2 self titled albums in 1980 and 1981. They featured Dirk Fleck (Fritz Muller colaberator) on their 2nd album.

11) A Great-British-Influenced Rock 'n' Roll band from Peterborough, England.

Recently recorded a 3 song demo disc which can be found on our myspace site - /empiregb.

Vocals - Daryl Epton
Lead Guitar - Matt Walker
Rhythm Guitar - Dave Thomson
Bass - Liam Marsden
Drums - Phil Richards

12 An Australian/UK rock band comprised of:
Luke Chable - lead vocals/guitar
Justin Moreh - lead guitar
Colin Moreh - rhythm guitar
Tim Sykes - bass
Ben McIntyre - drums

http://www.triplejunearthed.com.au/Artists/View.aspx?artistid=38890

13) Tthe Manchester based Brit Alternative rock group. 

The band comprises of:

Vocals:    Andy Moss 
Guitar:    Paul Bowe
Guitar:    Nick Bowden 
Bass:       Dave Murray 
Drums:    Pete Green

Tracks comprise of:

1. Number One

14) Raleigh, NC Based Post Hardcore band Empire formerly known as They Were Heroes. Members consist of:
Vocals:    Ben Daughtry
Vocals:    Colin Silverstein
Guitar:    Jackson Davis
Guitar:    Preston Mitchum
Bass:    Erik Bartelucci
Drums:    Aaron Bowen

They are set to release their debut EP "Leading The Blind", after rereleasing a selection of They Were Heroes songs for free download.

15) Empire was a British RAC band. The band formed in June, 1990 by Martin Cross as Empyre before changing their name to Empire. Because the major RAC bands like Brutal Attack and Skrewdriver were moving out of London, Martin hoped to keep the scene alive by starting a London-based band. 

The recording line-up consisted of:
Wayne Wakeford - Vocals
Martin Cross - Guitar
Gav Mann - Bass
Len "The Big Stix" Fleckney - Drums

The band existed only as a studio project and never once played live. After Gav and Len left, Benji and Tom were brought in on bass and drums respectively. The band had plans for a sophomore album that never materialized. Shortly thereafter, the band broke up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Empire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.