1) Free-noise group from New Zealand (members: Alie McPherson, Marcel Bear, Rosy Parlane). Released 8" lathe-cut on Crawlspace Records (1998), one 3" CDR on PseudoArcana, and was also on Le Jazz Non compilation CD, released by Bruce Russell's Corpus Hermiticum label, 1996. One song (Untitled) is also in Fit For Kings - A Compilation Of Peripheral New Zealand Music Series II CD, released by Crawlspace Records, 2000.   

2) Nathaniel Facey (alto sax); Lewis Wright (vibes); Tom Farmer (double bass); Shaney Forbes (drums/percussion).

Empirical's smart post-bop style has drawn admiring notices on both sides of the Atlantic. Their debut recording went on to be voted Jazzwise magazine's album of the year, and Mojo magazine's jazz album of the year. Expertly incorporating elements of classical, African and Cuban musical forms into its original, sophisticated, fresh-sounding jazz, Empirical make a point of not being centred around a specific front line or leader; it is very much a complete band, each member contributing equally, adding their own facets to the overall sound.

In May 2008, Empirical collected the Ensemble of the Year prize at the annual Parliamentary Jazz Awards, held at the House of Commons, and organised by the All Party Parliamentary Jazz Appreciation Group. This award was just the latest in a succession of accolades the band has picked up in its short lifetime: Empirical's award-winning assault on the jazz scene began at the North Sea Jazz Festival in July 2007 when they won the inaugural EBU/European Jazz Competition; this was followed later that year by the Peter Whittingham Jazz Award.
Wilson.

Empirical returned triumphant from their appearance at the iconic Newport Jazz Festival (Rhode Island, USA) last summer. During his introduction, Jason Olaine, vice president of programming for The Festival Network, acknowledged that it was no mean feat to receive a standing ovation at New York Jazz Festival, as Empirical did when they opened for The Bad Plus in June 2008; needless to say, their performance at Newport garnered another standing ovation. As well as their victorious return to the North Sea Jazz Festival, and their US sojourn, Empirical also performed at several other international jazz gatherings last year, including Canada's Vancouver, Victoria, Toronto and Montreal jazz festivals, receiving stand ovations at each.

Additionally, Empirical were nominated for 'Best Band' and 'Best Album' in the BBC Jazz Awards 2008 - Their current release was included in Jazzwise's list of 10 Best Albums of 2009; as well as being listed as No. 3 in Mojo Magazine's Jazz Albums of 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Empirical">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.