There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Emptiness is a death metal band from Belgium. The group was founded in 1998 by Nerath Daemon (lead guitar/vocals, Enthroned) and Phorgath (lead vocals/bass, also in Hybrid Viscery and Sons of Jonathas). They then were joined by Naerguth (rhythm guitar, also in Excavated) and drummer Khapth to start their unique take on death metal. Their style is more atmospheric than usual death metal, a moody riff sense with melodic harmonies and fast drumming with a solid pattern beat.

In the first stages of life they self-released a demo called Eternal Rising in 2000 expressing a moody atmospheric kind of harsh death metal, containing lyrical aspects such as emptiness, horrors and darkness. This lead to a label signing with Witching Hour Records, who re-released the first demo and the new songs as a bonus second demo called Necrorgy in 2002.

The band changed their line-up for the first time with drummer Khapth leaving, and guitarist Naerguth over the direction of the band. These were quickly replaced by Glaurung (drums) and Phil (rhythm guitar, ex-Manic Movement). This new line-up released the band's debut full-length album Guilty to Exist, in 2004 with guest vocals by Lord Sabathan (Enthroned) helping them, on Painkiller Records. This album was a compilation of the two former demos and 5 new songs added with the new-line up which showed maturity within the musicianship and showmanship within the songs but still had the quick edge like in the first demos.

The band then released a promo-only demo, in late 2005, for more labels after Painkiller Records bailed out on the band. This was later released as a download on their official website in early 2006. From this promo the band got interest from Agonia Records whom released a yet another changed Emptiness line-up, with drummer Glaurung leaving due to personal problems and Twan filling his seat on the drums. The band then released their second full-length album Oblivion in 2007.

2) Emptiness is a drone metal / sludge band from Russia.

3) Emptiness is a gothic black metal band from Greece. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Emptiness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.