Emyn Muil is a Tolkien-themed epic black metal project created by Nartum (Ymir, Valtyr).

The name is taken from a a vast, seemingly impenetrable maze of rocky crags in the region of Rhovanion in J.R.R Tolkien's Middle-earth, where Frodo and Sam met Gollum.

Emyn Muil is part of the Master Project called “Nartum Music Projects” (NMP), which is my personal way to express that part of music I'd like to listen to. I can say that NMP is divided into 5 projects (3 active, 2 in progress), each one represent one of my genre, world and sensibility toward a particular theme / universe, in this case Emyn Muil is my omage to one of these worlds, Tolkien’s world, whereof I am very affectioned.
Emyn Muil (The name is taken from a a vast, seemingly impenetrable maze of rocky crags in the region of Rhovanion in J.R.R Tolkien's Middle-earth, where Frodo and Sam met Gollum.) was born with the intent to recreate those atmospheres and sounds of an ancient world that only Tolkien’s books can give. I was mostly inspired by Summoning because I believe they are the most representatives of this genre with their unique style of music, so I wanted to reach those great sounds and atmospheres, united to my sensibility for this incredible universe. Other influences come from Windir, Arathorn and Lord Wind.

For the first release "Túrin Turambar Dagnir Glaurunga" (the title is taken from the grave where Túrin was buried) I was inspired by the famous Tolkien's book "The children of Húrin ", whose story tells about the deeds of Túrin Turambar (descendant of the house of Hador and anti-hero of Tolkien's fiction) and his curse, imposed by Morgoth the Dark Lord. I wanted to be focused on one of the most exciting and deep stories of Tolkien’s lore. There are not many bands that have treated this novel, but Túrin is a so fascinating character and his story so sad and thrilling. I lived his path through the story and I felt the need to give my contribute to this great character and his author. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Emyn+Muil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.