From the misty islands and riverbanks of the southern Netherlands, Encorion, a six headed pagan metal horde has awakened from the ashes of long forgotten bands and projects. Sprung from the mind of Danny de Graaf (founder/guitarist) out of a passion for metal, classical and folk music and a romantic notion of European culture in a time before the rise of Christianity. Soon joined by his brothers in arms and cousins Michael Dubbelt (bass/clean vocals) and Raymond Dubbelt (vocals) in the winter of 2007, Encorion gained a physical form. With almost an album’s worth of demo recordings new blood was soon found in Jark Zilverentant (drums) and Tessa Freeke (violin, string and wind instruments) and the first battles were fought in venues across the Netherlands and Belgium.

Battle-hardened and armed to the teeth, they headed to Phonology studios for two solid weeks of recording and emerged with “Facing History and Ourselves” as the spoils of war. An alliance was cemented with Sleaszy Rider Records and the first offering was released upon the world on the 7th of March 2010.

Summers came and winters passed. Battles were fought with various shield brothers like Adorned Brood, Skyforger, Omnia, Slechtvalk, Conorach, Grimhorde, Vanir, Myrkvar, Mondvolland and Chain of Dogs; on the battlefields of Wolfstijd, Summerfest, Power Folk Festival, Einherjar Fest, Midzomerfair, Light a Pagan Fire and In Walhalla!

Strengthened by the experiences of recording, live performances and rehearsals, the original fire was rekindled to write a stronger, heavier and more inspired album. The fire soon blazed bright in the heart of Encorion as new material sprung from a reborn creativity. Five hearts, now more than ever, acting with one common goal. Spread out over three months and two different studios, “Our Pagan Hearts Reborn”, a new musical journey through time was realised. With a bigger musical contribution from the individual members, more instruments and guest appearances.

One guest appearance had a particular effect on the group, and in the wake of the album launch party talks started about changing and rearranging the current line-up. Mike, as a true guitar player at heart, had been looking for an opportunity to wield his axe once again, and in Tim van der Ham, who had recorded Bodhran on the track “Moonfall, Sunrise”, an amazing new bass player was found. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Encorion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.