There are a few bands under the Encrypted monicker:

1. ENCRYPTED (Puerto Rico) was formed in 1998 under the moniker of Grieved, Vocalist Jay Collazo and Drummer Robert Santos (Sacrificio/Dismal Divinity) got together with the same idea, to create music that would make any handy-cap jump out of the wheelhair into the pit action, Robert Webster was recluted for the Bass duties and Manuel Flecha for Guitarist  this line-up went together through several live shows in the Puerto Rico area, gaining soon the recognition for P.R.’s In Sickest Death Metal act. By early 2000 the band recorded a two song promo demo which one of the track was included on “Down to the Abyss” compilation CD, soon after Robert Webster and Manuel Flecha were replaced for  Guitarist Freddy Figueroa and the new Bassist  Anthony Nieves shortly after they released their debut  six songs MCD “Drifting to the Impaled”  on Under The Baphomet Records which sold over 3000 copies around the world and had very good response from the DM  followers.
Many underground Zine gave very good reviews and Magazines like Metal Maniacs praised their mosh inducing  metal flavor. In late 2001 Freddy left the band to put his full time effort on his band 
Organic Infest. 
Onix Feliciano and Miguel Flores where incorporated in the ENCRYPTED ranks to bring a much more complete sound and a better stage presence converting the band into a quintet combo. They started to work on new material and playing gigs around the island.
In 2002 the band broke-up under personal reason, the band remained broken until 2005 that Onix and Jay spoke about re-forming the band and soon started the task to complete the line-up.  They were about to release a new album, looks like they broke up before they could do it.

2. Encrypted from Kazan, Russia. Play death metal.
Line-up:
Bulat - Vocals, Bass
Alexander - Guitar, Lead Guitar
Ruslan - Guitar
Igor - Drums

3. German death/black metal band formed in 2012. They released a demo (MMXIII) on 2013.

4. Symphonic metal band from California, USA that released a demo (Ashes) in 2005.

5. Finnish death metal band formed around 2009-2010. Changed their name to Denominate in 2015.

6. Experimental death metal band from Tlaxcala, Mexico <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Encrypted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.