There is more than one band, known as Encryption.

The first band known as "Encryption":
Country: Belgium
Ethereal/Dark Ambient.

This Belgium based band with (ties and origin in the world of black metal) members LacrimaS, Lady Clarisse and Lady Satine has released two atmospheric albums on Waerloga Records. The music could be described as dark ambient with female vocals. Lately the band has chosen to go more into neo-classical music. A natural and very good choice by the band. Encryption has played several live performances and also released a DVD with both live material and music videos. This talented group is right now evolving a lot and we eagerly await the third release in their fascinating story about witches and vampires in the late middle age.

Encryption are :
LacrimaS: Synths and Vocals
Lady Clarisse: Lead Vocals
Lady Satine: Backing and second line vocals

Discography:
Descriptio Ritu Des Ordo Libidis (CD)  2000
Secrecy (CD) 2003
Nosferamor (CD) 2005
Visium Ritualis (DVD) 2005

The second band known by the name of Encryption
is a rock/grunge band formed in Varna, Bulgaria in August 2006.
A recent Bulgarian project in the genre of progressive rock/grunge,  Encryption are yet to make a studio recording of their first album, Torn Pages, which contains 9 songs written within a month's time, and performed and recorded live in "Zone 51", a live music club based in Varna.

Encryption (Bulgaria) are:
Kristian - Guitars
Alexander - Guitars
Dakel - Drums
Peter (aka. twilightsun) - Bass
Philip (aka. Calhor) - Vocals

Discography:
Next Time (live) - 2006
Torn Pages - 2007 (expected to be released in summer)

The third band known by the name of Encryption:
A Progressive Power Metal band from Bavaria, Germany, formed in 1995.

Encryption (Germany) are:
Christian Klein - Vocals, Guitar
Michael Klein - Drums
Sebastian Pfister - Guitar
Oliver Göß - Bass

Discography:
Perishing Black Light (2000)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Encryption">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.