End of Level Boss return to the fray with their 3rd album “Eklectric”, released via Exile On Mainstream Records.

Continuing in their all-consuming search for twisted riffs, the London based band returned to the analogue domains of Earth Terminal Studios, England, (the same location used for their highly acclaimed 2007 release “Inside the Difference Engine”) during the dying days of 2010. Bringing in a completely new rhythm section (Peter Theobalds (ex Akercocke / Gonga) on bass, and Neil Grant (ex RAAR) on drums) the band have unleashed an angrier, dirtier sound, recorded live to tape across 4 short winter days.

Formed by former Hangnail / Decomposed frontman Harry Armstrong, End of Level Boss was created to explore a need for off-kilter riffs and mishapen rhythms, forced into a headnodding, footstomping marriage with burned out, unhinged groove. Having recruited ex Sloth guitarist Roland Scriver for lead guitar duties on their previous album, this third incarnation of EOLB have uncovered a mutual need to blend the familiar with the bizzare, resulting in the first End of Level Boss album to be written collectively, through intensive jam sessions, by the entire band.

The debut album “Prologue” saw the light of day in 2005 and was followed by extensive touring across Europe and the UK. End of Level Boss played several European festival dates, including appearances at the Roadburn festival (Holland), Stoned From The Underground and South of Mainstream festivals (Germany), and Sauzipf Rocks festival (Switzerland).This dedication to live deliverance of noise gained the band a fervent following and helped create a strong and dedicated fanbase throughout Europe and beyond.

Previously described as “Kyuss meets King Crimson” EOLB have taken that recipe and dragged it , kicking and screaming, into an all new, cold and raw direction. Realising this natural progression resulted in the band attacking the new recording with a deliberate desire to capture the live, punkier elements of Motorhead and Voivod that influenced their formative musical cravings.

The result is “Eklectric”. Grab your poison of choice, sit back and prepare to be infected.

End of Level Boss are:
Harry Armstrong - guitar & vocals
Roland Scriver - lead guitar
Neil Grant - drums
Peter Theobalds - bass guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/End+of+Level+Boss">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.