End to End was one of the most promising bands ever to emerge out of the late eighties hardcore scene. A splintering from the very first wave of what was later tagged “straight edge hardcore”, End to End followed in the footsteps of many classic hardcore bands by way of: put it together, put it on vinyl and then self destruct at the most opportune time. In all arenas, they hit it hard.


After vacating the vocalist position of Chain of Strength, ROA quickly recruited a new band. From his tenure as singer in Justice League, he knew and asked Shawn Connell of P.H.C. to come aboard. He did and they got to work immediately. They practiced intensely and aligned themselves with a new type of hardcore emerging at the time. With long time friends in Infest, Reason to Believe and peripherally Left Insane came a specific lack of genre that relied on the music, intensity therein and, when applicable, vital verbiage. End to End were quickly noticed for what they were and not merely in relation to the factions of punk rock who subscribed to the instant identity of costume and tough pose. End to End held steadfast to a time when XXX respectfully meant Flex Your Head and was never exclusionary.


Their shows were usually with close friends, Chain of Strength and while the band only played a handful of performances, their reputation was sealed as a band that had something to offer. The lyrics were more cognizant and thoughtful of current climates. They were void of routine and slogan. They relied on the belief of risk falling down while trying rather than standing in a crowd waiting to be told how to act.


End to End were happening. A demo was completed for the purposes of booking more shows. Judge guitarist Porcell took notice and invited the band back East for a two-week tour. Tim Singer of Boiling Point Fanzine quickly secured equipment (amps courtesy Steve-O Crudello), the van and booked other shows as well in what would be a twenty-one day excursion. Moreover, five days after their return End to End were to go into the studio to record twelve songs for a full length. All this was to be done in a mere eight weeks. Surprisingly, Shawn, bass player Erik Egan and drummer Bryan Bos, feeling overwhelmed and overworked, voted not to do the tour. ROA felt that the band not taking advantage of all theses opportunities was merely a glimpse of things to come. The ultimatum was given. It was rejected and the process all came to a halt. The master tapes were released posthumously in 1990. 1000 on black vinyl and 200 on gray vinyl. Good reviews and quick sales cemented the legacy.


Fifteen years later Indecision Records is proud to reissue this four song, seven inch of End to End. In addition to the original recording, the disc contains liner notes written by ROA, unpublished photos and live videos of the band, two of which are unreleased songs. End to End. Dedicated To The Emotion  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/End+To+End">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.