SEKAI NO OWARI (eng. The End of the World) is a creator group, originating from Tokyo, Japan. The band was created in 2007 and consists of four members: Nakajin, Fukase, Saori, and DJ LOVE. Starting with their move to TOY’S FACTORY label and the release of their single INORI they changed the spelling of their name from the kanji (世界の終わり) to the romaji version written in capital letters (SEKAI NO OWARI).
Starting out as an indie band, SEKAI NO OWARI performed their first live concert at club EARTH with 15 people attending. The band self-produced their first demo, sekai NO oWARI, with a limited edition of 1,000 copies. Fukase, vocalist, named the band Sekai no Owari because "Once you've experienced the bottom (the negative side of your life), you have to find a way to go up (the positive side). So I named my band End of the World to create the strength through the music."
SEKAI NO OWARI started to become popular in the Japanese indie scene in 2010. In August in 2011, SEKAI NO OWARI performed a solo concert at the Nippon Budokan where The Beatles performed in 1966. The tickets for this show sold out. In November, their first major album ENTERTAINMENT, was awarded Best Album for the Japan Record Award.
In 2013, they have set out their first-ever outdoor-live-event ‘Fire and Forest Carnival’. They wanted to create a stage that is as majestic as ‘Tomorrowland” – the largest electronic music festival - if anything go beyond it. They created the whole show aiming to be something bigger than ‘Tomorrowland’. They have successfully actualized the vision bringing 20,000 people a day for 3 days, totaling 60,000 fans. Since then, their show including the stage started to be recognized as one and only for its unique stage theme and irresistible performance.
In January 2015, SEKAI NO OWARI released their second major album ‘ Tree’ 2 years and 7 month after their last album. The album has topped No.1 on the chart, and has reached 1 million sales in total of physical sales and digital downloads.
SEKAI NO OWARI held a 2day-show ‘Twilight City’ at Nissan Stadium ;the biggest stadium in Japan in July. ‘Twilight City’ is a 2-days of 70,000 people and in total of 140,000 fans are expected to attend. capacity; nonetheless the tickets were sold out immediately. American pop-star Austin Mahone joined the show as a guest act. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/End+of+the+World">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.