There are two known bands with this name.

1) Swedish hardcore/d-beat band in the vein of Wolfbrigade (one of the members is actually a former member of that band). Full-length album "Same shit but different" out on Crimes Against Humanity Records. On 17. April 2008 the band the band announced they were canceling all future gig and recording plans and rethinking if they wanted to continue playing. For songs, updates and more, visit http://www.myspace.com/endofallsweden

2) American deathcore band from Wilkesboro, North Carolina. They recorded 2 albums, for Tribunal Records and Venge Records. Member have since worked in well known projects such as From A Second Story Window, The Autumn Offering, and PJ Foster.

Official bio: End of All are a five-piece extreme metal group who draw from such influences as Motley Crue, Messugah, Pantera and Metallica to form a unique grind/death/hair/core fusion. Hailing from North Wilkesboro, NC in 2000, End of All has been a staple of the South Atlantic metal scene and is quickly expanding their fan base national and internationally.

Along with other extreme metal bands such as Glass Casket, Between The Buried and Me, Mastodon, End of All holds their own within the pressure cooker that is the underground metal scene. End of All has honed their unique sound from playing hundreds of shows over the past 4 years, and have developed a unique method of live rigging that makes their sound gut-wrenchingly thick and heavy even without the support of a full-time bass player until now. Everyone please welcome to the EOA family Bryan Stancil "bass guitar" and new vocalist Daniel "Morning" Wood.

Whether it is performing live, handling the road, or writing and recording tracks, End of All has the experience, the sound, the stage presence, the creativity, and the drive to push the metal genre to new heights. As Smathers from Uranium puts it, End of All is a “band who [has] the skills and a necessary understanding of extreme metal to be huge.”

End of All’s 3rd full-length Dance of Democracy showcases the maturity and unbelievable talent of this young metal act. Recording and Produced by End of All, this album is an aural bombardment with moments of blasting dual-guitar attacks, split-second jazz interludes, Hatebreed-esque breakdowns, math-metal intensity and precision, brutal thrash, etc. etc.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/End+of+All">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.