ENDAEMONA was born from the ashes of black metal band Obsidivm Spirti, founded back in 1998. In spring 2003, after a long period of inactivity, guitarist Francesco and drummer Jorge started looking for new members to resume the Obsidivm Spirti project. The selection process took a long time but, in the end, the band managed to find a stable line-up recruiting singer/guitarist Stefano and bassist Thomas (both former members of death metal band Absence) as well as Mario at keyboards. At first, the new line-up focused on the old stuff of Obsidivm Spirti trying to develop a more personal style. It is now when the band (that will eventually change its name to ENDAEMONA) starts developing a sound of its own based on the heterogeneous influences of each member and ranging from black metal to goth music. This profound change becomes evident in the song "Caligula". In summer 2004 the band recorded its first work called "Cold Memories" at Real Sound Studios in Rome. This album helped the band make a name for itself in Rome's underground scene. On December 2004, ENDAEMONA played as the opening act for Death SS and The Vision Bleak on the occasion of the "The night of the Witches II" event. During first months of 2005, Endaemona work at new songs and continue to perform their live shows around the italian background, like in Turin on 15 December @ Sound Factory. Three new songs are ready in 2006, so the band decided to enter again in Real Sound Studios to record a new MCD "LACRIMA" that contains this three new tracks united at other three instrumental suites in a sublime rarity that prepare their fans to the long awaited first full-lenght that will be recorded in the new year! But after "LACRIMA" recording session, Francesco Cardillo one of the founder member, left the band due to his personal and work problems, but soon was replaced by Alessandro Terrinoni like a new guitarist of the band. Other works and line up problems stop the band until January 2008. So after a very long period of inactivity, ENDAEMONA decide to come back with new logo, new materials, new merchandise and modified line up (thanks our friend and drummer Jorge and bassist Thomas for their presence during these years into the band)!! Endaemona will enter on next 23rd June 2008 in "16 Cellar Studios" of Stefano Morabito to starts the recording session of their 1st full-length. The album, for the first time recorded without the use of keyboards, will include 9 tracks for a lenght of 50 minutes of music. Coming soon new pics, donwloads, artwork & tracklist!!!! The band is currently looking for a record deal.
 
LINE UP:

STEFANO SCIAMANNA - Vocals & Rythm Guitar

MARIO DI GIAMBATTISTA - Lead Guitar & Piano

FRANCESCO GIULIANELLI - Bass

FABIO CESARINI - Studio & Live Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Endaemona">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.