Odense….Autumn 2003 and the first steps of ENDLESS AUTUMN are made.
Allan (guitarist/ songwriter) left his old band SUBROSA and started looking for other musicians to create ENDLESS AUTUMN. The new members were Troels (guitarist), Pale (drummer), Clause (bassist) and Rouze (keyboards/ sax). Ina joined as a singer but she left soon.

The band’s sound was deep like the emotions created by autumn. Never ending love, hurt feelings and a sense of being lost are the trademark of ENDLESS AUTUMN music.

In the beginning of 2004 Linnea joined as a new singer and the band recorded the demo “Night Of Solitude” which contained 3 songs (“Die Without You”, “Runaway” and “Night Of Solitude”) in their home studio.
In 2005 Linnea, Pale and Clause left the band and Allan with Troels tried to find new members to go on. But Troels left soon to make his own project.

In 2006 Allan moved to Copenhagen and the following autumn he met Rassmus (drummer) and Kaia (singer). They mixed their projects and Allan’s and Kaia’s songs were the material for the new ENDLESS AUTUMN. Later on, Pavel joined as guitarist, Hanning in keyboards and Michel acted as bassist and growls singer.
The addition of growls to our music, mixed with the ethereal female vocals, brought a higher sense of sorrow.

In the following 4 months the band had a lot of live gigs in Huset, Krafverket, Stengate30 and also Pumphuset in 2007. 
After the last gig in Pumphuset Kaia left to work in her own project and so did Pavel, while Michel could only assist as a guest growl vocalist. Another hard time for the band…
Not a long time later, Kimmie (singer/ lyricist of ANGELIC DESIRE band) joined us, while Jesper (Q) became our bassist.

In May 2008 we recorded our debut EP “Come To My Land” with Kimmie’s heartfelt voice and our new bassist Jesper. In May, Simon (guitarist of Metallica Jam) joined us and we became a 6-members band again.

Autumn never ends….feelings continue flowing like a river….and ENDLESS AUTUMN sing what autumn is all about….


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Endless+Autumn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.