There is more than one artist with the name Endorphin.

1. (AUSTRALIA) Endorphin (aka Eric Chapus) has had a prodigious career to date. Since arriving in Australia in 1984 from France he has had several musical incarnations. Coming into the spotlight after being unearthed by JJJ in 1996 and delivering an impressive debut album “Embrace”, he has been dazzling his audiences with a live electronic show that weaves together an eclectic array of visual imagery and music to create a live production that explodes with an energy that seduces all the senses. Endorphin has toured with the likes of Moby, Massive Attack, Portishead, Faithless, St Germain and Kosheen.

Endorphins music has also been incorporated onto numerous Australian and International compilations including Ibiza’s DJ Jose Padilla’s chilled out Café Del Mar series with his classic track "Satie". He has also remixed other artists work such as Icehouse, Spiderbait, Paul Kelly, Sonic Animation, Sunk Loto, Men at Work, Jimmy Little and Tina Arena.

2. (U.S.A.) Endorphin was a mostly instrumental classic/jam rock band from Providence, RI from 2001-2005.  The band was based around core members Nick Cooper (guitar, vocals) and Dan Moriarty (drums).  Occasional members of the band included Eric Lonergan (vocals), Christopher Choinski (6-string bass), Matthew Huntley (guitars), Chris Curley (keyboards, harmonica), Graham Mellor (bass), and Peter Gilli (saxophones).  Endorphin was a mainstay at the Providence CVS Downtown 5k.  Cooper, Moriarty, and Gilli now perform with A Troop of Echoes.  

3. (SCOTLAND) Endorphin are a punchy and melodic four-piece rock band based in Edinburgh, Scotland with a sound akin to early Radiohead/Feeder. Endorphin were featured on Beat 106's Beatscene, received airplay on BBC Radio, Storm Radio, Sub City Radio and Radio Unsgnd. Kerrang, NME, The List, The Scotsman and The Evening News have all featured complimentary reviews of endorphin. The band have also appeared in the final heats of the Tennants T-Break and Emergenza competitions, winning an award for  "Best Guitarist" at The Glasgow Carling Academy in June 2004.
 Endorphin were among a very small number of Scottish bands elected to represent New Music In Scotland at the MTV Europe Music Awards showcase in Edinburgh. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/endorphin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.