ENDSVILLE (ENDZ-vil) adjective, noun 1. Most excellent or the best. 2. Most undesirable; the end. 3. The band.

ENDSVILLE is a roots based rock band that will move you from the gentle delivery of pastoral whispers to the urgent call of city soaked screams in the space of 4 minutes. While weaving the tales, and taking out the trash of our lives, ENDSVILLE's sound evokes performers like Elvis Costello, Jeremy Fisher combined with the lyrical sensibility of Bright Eyes and Ron Sexsmith all wrapped up in a uniquely powerful and emotional live delivery.

Endsville was formed in 2005 when Minas and Keith were both advertising for musicians at the same time. They responded to each other's ads and shortly afterwards, Endsville was born.

In the later part of 2006, Endsville added Matt Bartram on keyboards and Paul Butters on Guitar.

The current Endsville linup is:

Vocals/6-String: Keith Jolie
Keith is a seasoned singer and songwriter. His lyrics are taken from real life experiences and enveloped in guitar tones that scream conviction. Keith released a solo album, "City So Cold" in 1998, , and 2 other limited releases.

Skins: Minas Hatzigiannatzoglou
If you're counting, yes it's 18 letters long. Minas developed his technique from years of learning from the masters of rock. His philosophy is simple - if you are going to play a rhythm, then make sure everyone is going to feel that rhythm. You'll always see a grin on his face, when the kick drum drops and the stage comes alive.

Bass - Morgan (911) Phillips
In 2003 Morgan Jones Phillips and Keith were next door neighbours. Morgan had a new born baby and didn’t get out much, but he always heard music floating up from between the houses and always liked what he heard. In 2006 Keith moved away to have his own baby and that could have been the end of things were it not for recent rumours of Endsville needing some bassiliciousness.
For at least 3 generations there hasn’t been a single person on his father’s side of the family that hasn’t played in a band. He is proud to continue that tradition.

6-string : Paul Butters
As a teenager, Paul's parents threatened to take away his guitar if his school marks didn't improve, since he practiced instead of doing homework. Little did they know the guitar was going to get him a degree (music at U of G), a job (music teacher) and a wife (met her at a music store). Who's had the last laugh now! For the past ten years Paul has been living the true hard-core rock n' roll life: Teaching classics like "Little Rabbit Foo Foo" and "Fuzzy Wuzzy Wuz a Bear" to Elementary school kids. Anyone would agree that pace of that sort cannot be maintained without going down in a fiery crash ala Bonham, Hendrix and Morrison, so nice relaxing late nights playing with Endsville is just what this guitarist needs. He cheerfully admits to a wide range of influences, including Van Halen, Joe Pass, Leo Kottke and, of course, Raffi. Mostly he just likes to play; genre be damned! He also lives by the credo "Move when the spirit says move", so don't be surprised if he bounces around on stage a bit!

Tickling the Ivories - Matt Bartram
Since deserting from the French Foreign Legion after a minor misunderstanding with three of the commanderï¿½s five wives, Matthew has worked to blend into society by losing his six-pack abs and pretending to work at several companies whose names will remain confidential to protect the innocent. He has been playing piano for longer than he can remember and thanks his parents for forcing him, teary-eyed, to continue music lessons throughout his adolescence. Musical influences are varied and include The Grateful Dead, David Bowie, ragtime and jazz, Pink Floyd and a one-eyed leper that he met in Calcutta who played La Bamba on the harmonica.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Endsville">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.