Engel is an industrial/melodic death metal band. They hail from Gothenburg, Sweden and in addition, their bassplayer origins from England.

Engel is also a Dutch rapper, who released his debut album "Engelland" in 2008 and is also part of a duo called Engel & Just.

Fans of the band?
Formed at Göteborg, Sweden back in 2004, Niclas Engelin and Marcus Sunesson felt that they should bring something new to the genre.

Lineup (27th of Nov, 2014):
Mikael Sehlin - Vocals (Degradead)
Niclas Engelin - Guitars (In Flames, Passenger, ex-Gardenian, ex-Sarcazm)
Marcus Sunesson - Guitars (ex-The Crown, ex-The Haunted)
Steve Drennan - Bass (ex-Locus, at times Amon Amarth's touring bassist)
Oscar Nilsson - Drums

Discography:
Their debut album is called Absolute Design and it came out from SPV/Steamhammer at October 2007 in Europe, followed by US release in May 2008.

Their second album, called Threnody, was released in Japan April 7th of 2010. European and US releases got delayed due label issues with SPV, the release in the US and Europe got delayed, to January of 2011 and November 2010, respectively, released by Season of Mist.

Blood of Saints, band's third album, which was first with the current drummer Jimmy Olausson and last with vocalist Magnus Klavborn, was released in May of 2012 by Season of Mist.

Raven Kings, the fourth studio album, was released via GAIN/Sony and it saw the day of light with new singer and new vocalist at end of November 2014. 

Line-up Changes
Former bassplayer Michael Håkansson (Mortum, Embraced, The Project Hate MCMXCIX, Incapacity, etc.) left the band on 14th of August 2008 to reach his other dreams in life. His duty as bassplayer was taken over during November 2008 by Steve Drennan, who has played as a tour-bassist for Amon Amarth.

During 2010, band replaced their drummer, Daniel "Mojjo" Moilanen - Drums (The Project Hate MCMXCIX, Relevant Few etc.) with Jimmy Olausson, who also plays drums for Marionette. During 2014, Olausson left the band and Oscar Nilsson stepped in.

Late 2012, Magnus Klavborn left the band, having been with them since the start. A temporary vocalist Lennart Nilsson (ex-Twelvestep) filled in for some shows that had already been booked, until the band found their new and current vocalist Mikael Sehlin (Degradead).


Fans of the Hiphop artist?
The rapper S.J. Engel alias Engelland or Engel released in 5 years, 6 records. On his first solorecord "Engelland", released in 2008, you can also hear great rappers as Jiggy Djé, Diggy Dex and Def P.

And in 2009 he released his second soloproject called "Geen Weg Terug". Without going sentimental on his fans he had written a couple of deep tracks, like "1 van ons" and "Laatste gedachten". On that last track he referred to the death of Nirvana's Kurt Cobain.

On the 20th of November 2009 is the official release party of his album "Geen Weg Terug" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Engel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.