There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Engorged is a deathgrind band from Portland, USA. They formed in 1997 by Akkad (Vocals), Ryan (Guitars, Last Empire, Thy Infernal, Frightmare), Noah (Guitars, Frightmare), Lucas (Bass, Menacer (US), Fall of the Bastards) and Shad (Drums, Coma Void, Whore (US), Frightmare, Blood Freak). The band unqiuely blends horror themes, death metal and grindcore in a blend of catchy deathgrind. The vocals are rough and growly with backing vocals of high scream rather like Napalm Death or Impaled, the guitars are distorted and downtuned for the full effect of the blasting and catchy drums. They have simialities between all their past artists like Frightmare and other artists like Lord Gore and have toured with such bands as Obituary, Macabre, Pungent Stench, Impaled, Repulsion, Blood Duster, Cephalic Carnage and Phobia.

They released their "Death Metal Attack" demo in 1997 as a cassette and toured around for most of that year. They were praticing new songs and were approached by Razorback Records of which they signed to by the end of 1998. Later, the band recorded and released their debut album "Death Metal Attack 2" in 1999 which had eleven new songs with the re-recorded demo songs as bonus material. The band got great reviews from their unique spin on deathgrind and the band truly entered the realm of the underground with a core fanbase to follow their footsteps.

The band then released their after some splits with Impaled and Fuck... I'm Dead in 2002 and 2003 via No Escape Records and Discos Al Pacino. After they released their self-titled album in late 2002 via Deathvomit Records and they toured with Lord Gore and Impaled in California to promote their second album. Changes to the linup followed after with Akkad leaving for Dave on vocals and Shad gave way to Kevin (Drums, Lord Gore, Frightmare, Menacer (US), Thy Infernal, Winter of Apokalypse, Splatterhouse, Warhate (US)) to put pull up his stall into the fulltime membership of the band.

The band later did a split with Gruesome Stuff Relish in 2004 and released their third album "Where Monsters Dwell" via Razorback Records in late 2004 where by Dave left the band on vocals and was replaced by Sean McGrath (Vocals, Inhumation (US), Impaled (US), Exhumed Butchery, Exhumed, Ghoul, Aceldama, Black Ops) after their successful tour in 2007 with F.K.U and Ghoul.

They toured around for the most part of 2008 participating in many festivals, including Maryland Deathfest 2008 with such bands as Disavowed, deranged, Monstrosity and Malevolent Creation. The band, also revealed that they are going to release their fourth studio album "House of Cthulhu" expected sometime in June 2009.

Official Myspace

2) Engorged was a deathgrind band from Massachusetts, USA 


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Engorged">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.