Engrave/EnGrave is the name of at least two different projects:

(1) Engrave is a punk rock band from Japan.

Engrave was born when Koichiro Hiraide,the band's drummer and lead singer,heard Pennywise's self titled CD in summer,1994.The then high school student conected immediately with the energy mixed and aggressive lyrics that stormed out of the speaker even though he didn't understand all of the lyrics. Koichiro and his friend,Atsushi Sakamoto formed the band to play the copies of Pennywise.This is very beginning of Engrave.

Engrave started playing their original songs in early 1996 and released 2 single CDs on Koichiro's own independent label in 1997-1998.Also,Engrave started touring all area in Japan including the openning acts for Hi-Standard,Kemuri and some major bands in Japan from 1998.

In June 2001,Koichiro went to Stall no.2 studio in Redondo Beach,California to see Pennywise's producer Darian Rundall at Stall no.2 and negotiated with him about the recording of Engrave's 1'st album YOUR SHARE OF IT.Then other members of Engrave,Hideo Kataoka,Hiroomi Oba,Atsushi Takada flew to California to get ready for the recording. Also,Engrave had some gigs in Upland,Anaheim and Hermosa Beach,California before this recording.

In July 13.2001,Darian Rundall and Justin(98Mute) and Koichiro's punk heroes,Pennywise's Fletcher Dragge,Byron Mc Mackin and Jim Lindberg showed up Engrave's gig at BBC in Hermosa Beach.Engrave played Bro Hym with Pennywise's members at the end of the gig. After a few days,Engrave and Darian Rundall started recording.Pennywise's guitarist,Fletcher Dragge mixed 2 songs on this album.Also,local band called Unresolved(ex.Fisted Youth) supported this recording.Also,Engrave played an openning act for Pennywise gig at club Citta,Tokyo,Japan before releasing this album.

In 2003,Engrave was offered to release their 3'rd single CD,VOTE PEOPLE by Ishikawa on Japanease indie label called Tiger Hole(Loft records).Engrave recorded this single CD in Tokyo,Japan with Darian Rundall from California.Hideo Kataoka,guitarist of Engrave had decided to drop out because of marrige,so the new guitarist Masami Aoyagi from Agent Mind supported this recording.Masami formally joined Engrave after this recording.At the end of 2003,Schecter guitar Japan had started to support guitar stuff and also,California's drum maker Pork Pie had started supporting drum stuff for Engrave since 2004.

In May.2005,Engrave held a big outdoor event called Distortion in their hometown,Aizu.Many profettional skaters,FMX riders and BMX riders joined Distortion from all area in Japan,like Warped tour in America.
October.2005,Engrave planned to go back to Stall no.2 for their 2'nd album recording.But bassist,Hiroomi Oba dropped out because of marrige,so Engrave decided to record this album without a bassist.They recorded this album UNWARNED with Darian Rundall at Stall no.2. And Pennywise's bassist,Randy Bradbury played a few songs as a guest bassist for this album.Also,Chico and Jeremy from Unresolved and drum tech,Mike Fassano helped to make this album great.

June.2006,Engrave released their 2'nd album UNWARNED on Koichiro's own label called Sunset Records in Japan.Also,Engrave joined a completion CD called Unite! released in America and Mexico.In 2007,Engrave toured with a support bassist Akila Kinugawa from Fly81 in Japan.Guitarist,Atsushi Takada dropped out during the tour,then Atsushi Sakamoto who played with Koichiro when they were high school students,joined again. Sep.2008,Engrave joined a street's style event called "Local ball" at Club Citta',Kawasaki.

Engrave is making songs for next new album now. 



(2) Engrave was a hardcore/screamo band: five guys from Aachen, Germany who play loud aggressive music. But this was a band who does not hide behind simple labels. For almost five years now this ensemble has been writing and performing expressions of their humanity with nothing but sincerity. Social commentary, political criticism, accounts of love and personal fears are all touched upon in the lyrics of singer, Andreas. In the studio and on the stage Maurice on drums, Jochen and Timo with guitars in hand and Roland on bass perform with a passion to match the incindiary words. 

In November of 1996, Maurice, Jochen and Andreas, having known one another through school, were brought together by their common appreciation of hardcore and punk and their desire to make music. The predecessor to Engrave, Appeal To Reason, was then formed. Soon they were playing shows around their hometown and recorded for a demotape that sold about a hundred copies. 

At the beginning of 1998 the band decided they needed a second guitar player and found a more than appropriate one in Norman, who had played in Loxiran from Hamburg before he moved to Aachen. Norman had an enormous influence on the music and helped to shape the songwriting. Sometime later, their bass player at that time, Erik, decided to leave the band and Roland was asked to join. As the shape, face and sound of the band changed, the name was also changed. For a short while they were known as Buried Every Hero, but desiring a more appropriate and easier to remember name, the band became Engrave.

At the end of 1998 seven new songs were recorded, but the band met difficulty in finding a label they could trust with the production and distribution of their music. Finally a worthy label was found in Cologne, Germany and a lasting partnership was formed between Engrave and Defiance Records. Five of the seven recorded songs were put down on vinyl as the band released their first 7". With the 7” under their belts Engrave found themselves playing more and more shows. In the summer of 1999 the band embarked on their first short tour, half of which was with Shai Hulud, that led them through Germany, Italy and Switzerland. Despite the fact that they were touring as a four piece, as Norman had left the band prior to the tour, it was a success. The boys then recorded another seven songs half of which appeared on a split 10”/ CD with the Italian band To Die For, whom they had met on tour. The remaining songs were to be released on another split, this time on a 7” with friends, Yage. 

After Norman had left, Engrave found themselves again looking for a second guitar player. Joong Sun of Reno Kid fame then joined the band but left Engrave after a short year due to personal reasons. During that year three successful tours took the boys throughout Europe, playing in Germany, Belgium, Italy, Austria, Czech Republic, England, Denmark and Sweden. Always ready to collaborate with friends, two songs recorded with Joong Sun were released on a split 7” with the Spanish band and Defiance labelmates, Standstill.

Continuing as a four piece Engrave began to write songs for a full length record but things began to slow down for the band. Maurice had left for France for 6 monthes to study and so in 2002 the band agreed to take a half year break. During this time it was decided that once again a second guitar player was needed and so they asked Timo, who they had known from shows. With this new element, Engrave was suddenly surging with new energy and the final songs for their first full length record “Stealing From Death a Few Desperate Moments of Life” simply poured out of them. With this record, Engrave prove their songwriting skills and present their best and most varied compositions to date, combining frantic spursts of noise and fucked up rythms with melodic and quiet elements. 

Engrave has completed six short tours and played numerous shows throughout Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Netherlands, England, Denmark, Sweden, Czech Republic, France, Luxemburg and Italy. They've played with bands such as Botch, Converge, Pale, As Friends Rust, Eaves, Shai Hulud, Lack, Standstill, Milemarker, Caliban, Yage, Planes Mistaken For Stars, Envy, Shelter, Cave In, Grade, Jr Ewing, Boy Sets Fire and Song Of Zarathrustra.

They played their last show in 2004 at WESTSIDE UNITY FESTIVAL in Aachen

Discography:
Selftitled 7” on Defiance Records ( 1998 )
“All the passion to keep you moving” Split 10”/CD with To Die For on Defiance Records ( 2000 )
Split 7” with Yage on Defiance Records ( 2000 )
Split 7” with Standstill on Defiance Records ( 2001 )
“Stealing from death a few desperate moments of life” LP/ CD on Defiance Records ( 2003 ).


(3) (Dark) Ambient outfit EnGrave was a one-man project comprised of synthwiz Nathan Morris. He recorded tracks for several compilations and a cassette demo, Benediction, before releasing the first and only full-length as Engrave, Polaris, in late 1997.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Engrave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.