COMPLETE BIOGRAPHY [Jan. 2006]

The story behind Enter My Silence dates back to late 1995, when drummer Teemu Hokkanen and bassist Arto Huttunen with guitarists Ville Lapio and Tuomas Jäppinen - who also did vocals - teamed up to form a melodic metal outfit Captivity. The quartet wrote material and rehearsed for a year to record their first three track demo tape in November 1996. It wasn't meant for wide distribution or media/label contact, but merely for the group of teenagers to gain valuable experience in working in professional studio environment. Some months and a few youth club gigs later, Lapio left the band and Huttunen switched to guitar, leaving the bass players seat open. In 1997, people came and went, but no suitable bassist was found, so the band rehearsed as a trio to record another three track tape in September. This one defined the basis of their sound; catchy, melo-harmonic lead guitar touch and growled vocals backed up by heavy, pounding rhythms.

For the most of 1998, Jäppinen and Huttunen worked on new material even though the band wasn't able to play live or even rehearse properly due to Hokkanen's military service. When he was released in September, the three - who at this point changed their name to Enter My Silence - started a brutally intense rehearsing period and headed for Studio Watercastle in Jyväskylä - their hometown in central Finland - to record their first promotional cd "Sophia's Eye" in December. Those 15 minutes of metal turned out to be a milestone, not only because of superior song material and production compared to previous work, but also because it paved the way to worldwide interest from underground metal media and labels. The year 1999 passed with the band writing songs, negotiating with several labels and eventually signing with danish Mighty Music.

At the break of new millennium Lapio rejoined Enter My Silence - this time to play bass - and a little later another line-up took place when Mikko Kotamäki(Swallow The Sun) joined the group to do vocals. That freed Jäppinen to fully concentrate on guitar and for the first time in three years, they finally had a full line-up. In July 2000 they once again entered Studio Watercastle to record their debut full lenght album "Remotecontrolled Scythe", which was released in Europe in March 2001 by Mighty Music. The album got great reviews worldwide and introduced a promising young band with a future. For the remainder of 2001, Enter My Silence played shows all over Finland and received more good news in the fall when Mighty Music announced that RC Scythe was licensed to WWIII/Mercenary Musik for US release. Everything looked good, but then started a series of events that held them back for over two years. Lapio left the band again in late 2001 and Jäppinen was so preoccupied with work and some other issues that it resulted in a serious lack of time and motivation for Enter My Silence. With him being the only songwriting member, it brought the band to a virtual standstill.

2002 and most of 2003 passed with just a few occational rehearsals, but a huge boost boost was given in late 2003 when Ville Friman - also a guitarist and songwriter for Insomnium - expressed his interest to join Enter My Silence to play bass. The group sat down for a beer or fifteen, talked bout the bands future and unanymously decided to pick up the pieces and get things going again. Loaded with newfound enthusiasm and inspiration, they started to compose and rehearse again, at the same time negotiating terms for 2nd album release with Mighty Music, who also were extremely happy to see Enter My Silence back on its feet. Everything went smoothly until October 2004, when the group noticed that Mikko - who had his hands full with Swallow The Sun - wasn't really motivated and decided to replace him with Mika Lisitzin - also in a hardcore band Scalping Screen - with just over a month before they started recording. So, problem solved but bound to face another... with just two days before recordings began, Mighty Music suddenly cut off all communications with the band. It was a huge shock, though the label contacted Enter My Silence later on. However by that time, the band had already decided to record the album on their own and pursuit a deal with another label. During four separate sessions from late November to mid-February 2005, Enter My Silence worked in Studio Watercastle and finally walked out with nine tracks of heavy, riff-orientated, melodic, versatile and technical metal that keeps surprising you from start to finish. Metal to the bone and twisted as hell! During the sessions, they also started shopping for labels to get a satisfying deal. This went on for the most of 2005 and finally in October they signed with new Finnish independent metal label JMT-Music who clearly showed the most enthusiasm and attitude towards them. Enter My Silence's sophomore effort, Coordinate: D1SA5T3R is released worldwide on February 27th 2006. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Enter+My+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.