There are 4 bands named Entheos.

1) Trip-Hop, Alternative, Ambient, Acoustic from Ohio, USA
http://entheosband.bandcamp.com/
Carl Shepard - vocals, guitars, bass, programming                          
Alison Shepard - vocals, percussion, keyboard                                                                                

This brother and sister team have been singing together since grade school.  "For us, performing together is a really natural thing," says Carl.  "It's a kind of dynamic conversation, between each other and our audience.  Though I'm also a visual artist, I realize that words and music are sometimes a more powerful form of communication," Alison explains.

Duos and Dichotomies

Listening to the band you get a sense of their expansive emotional territory: Bliss and sorrow, sadness and wonder. College professors would call this a dichotomy, or perhaps even a paradox. But Alison and Carl aren't seeking intellectual answers. Entheos is looking to pull something deeper from their passionate audience, something from within, using sound. 

Entheos and Etymology

Spirit and enthusiasm are energies the band and their audience share for one another, and also contribute to the meaning of entheos, both as a word and a musical force.  entheos has in fact, derived their name from the greek etymological root of the word, enthusiasm. 

Because of that spirit and enthusiasm, entheos enjoys a growing and returning crowd.  For the band, playing to their audience isn't just another gig.  "It's a real event, a happening," Carl says.  Continues Alison, "It's something special. We're making an authentic connection with our audience every time."

2)Folk-core from Ireland
http://entheosirl.bandcamp.com

3) Progressive metal, djent from the USA
https://www.facebook.com/entheosband
Members: Chaney Crabb - Navene Koperweis

4) Atmospheric black metal from Québec
http://entheosqc.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Entheos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.