1. Entrophy is a former young danish metal band, now turned studio-only. Formed in 2009, Entrophy was active for 2 years in the underground metal scene in Copenhagen. After a hiatus since 2011, in 2020 Entrophy returned as a studio-only band, remaking old material as well as writing and self-producing new material. The music is still metal, but has grown, as the members has, into a great variety of fusions between different metal genres such as death, black, progressive and symphonic.

2. Entrophy formed in late ’94, and have been spewing out their own brand of snotty pogo punk ever since. They are a four piece operation, with Roach McKrackin on Vocals & Guitar, Juston Speed on bass, Ludwig Von Retard on drums and Nate…Well, we’re not exactly sure what it is he does, but when we find out we’ll be sure to let you know...

Roach and Juston share the song writing duties, and they have spread their gospel of tacky punk rock clichés, drinking & obnoxiousness while playing live shows up and down the East Coast.

Entrophy currently has three releases to their name: Their homebrew demo CD, “Drinkin’ & Other Punk Rock Clichés” showcases their early work, and paved the way for their debut 7”, “Whatcha Gonna Do?”. This was their first attempt in a professional studio, and the higher recording quality breathes new life into the strongest songs from their illustrious career. 

It was recorded at Rodent Popsicle Studios in Allston MA, and was produced and engineered by none other then the infamous Toxic Bill Damon. It can be found in many small record shops along the South Shore, as well as some larger chain stores in Boston, including Newbury Comics. Lastly, they have just recently released a CD of collected works entitled “Scabies, Lice & Everything Nice…”, which features the tracks from “Whatcha Gonna Do?”, a few unreleased studio tracks, and live recordings from shows in the New England area. 

Besides their own releases, Entrophy has been featured on numerous compilation CDs, including Boston Punk 2000, released on Rodent Popsicle Records, and Reckless Records Vol. 1, released on Reckless Records.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Entrophy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.