There are multiple  groups, or aliases, by the name of Envy:

1. Since their formation in 1992, Envy has become a dominant band in the independent hardcore and screamo scene in Japan. Their music has evolved over the years to incorporate hardcore, screamo, and most recently, the epic tendencies of post-rock. Envy is characterized by their ability to master screamo's loud-soft dynamic to evoke both crushing brutality and gentle beauty, often within the same song. Much has been made of vocalist Tetsuya Fukugawa's own skill at commanding this dichotomy and thusly their live shows have grown in legend over the years. The band is also noted for their deep and poetic lyrics.

Their early sound was purely influenced by some of the grittiest hardcore and screamo out there, as evidenced by the albums 'Breathing and Dying in this Place...' and 'From Here to Eternity'. It is worth noting Tetsuya's vocals became harsher and more guttural as the years progressed. His recurrent use of clean vocals and spoken word, often within the same song, should also be noted. They are the perfect contrast to his screamo vocal delivery.

The band has become increasingly popular among the post-rock scene in the last few years for their incorporation of Mogwai-esque sound and composition dynamics into more traditional screamo songs. This new influence can be most easily identified on these three releases: "All The Footprints You've Ever Left And The Fear Expecting Ahead" released by Dim Mak,"A Dead Sinking Story" released on Level Plane and "Insomniac Doze" released on Temporary Residence Limited. However, its first hints can be heard on 'The Eyes Of A Single Eared Prophet' from the year 2000. 

The band has since become friends with Mogwai and vocalist Tetsuya Fukagawa was featured on a track from Mogwai's 2006 album "Mr. Beast." 

In March of 2006, it was announced that Envy had signed to Temporary Residence Limited for American distribution of Insomniac Doze (though it was released by Mogwai's Rock Action label in Europe and Envy's own Sonzai Records in Japan). The move was significant because Level Plane is a screamo oriented label and Temporary Residence is a post-rock oriented label (featuring bands like Mono and Explosions In The Sky), thus signalling a more serious shift in the band's style of music. The band has said that this album is one step closer to their ideal music. The 7 track album, Insomniac Doze, was released in the summer of 2006 and was accompanied by a full american tour, some of which was in conjunction with Explosions in the Sky and Mono.

The band also ended up becoming friends with Mono and Tetsuya was featured on the only Mono song with vocals to date, entitled 'The Hand That Holds the Truth' from the 2014 album 'Rays of Darkness'. The song might as well be an Envy song due to its progression and primal melancholic aggression. Additionally, Tetsuya's vocals are at its most guttural here.

Insomniac saw them at the peak of their post-rock influences as the instrumentation would not be out of place on a regular instrumental post-rock record and most of its aggression comes from the harsh vocals alone, there are hardly any hardcore moments present. The 2007 EP entitled 'Abyssal' was somewhat of a return to hardcore with a pinch of math rock on the side containing only one long song. 2010's 'Recitation' could be the spiritual successor to Sinking Story and 2015's 'Atheist's Cornea' was their shortest and hardcore-ish record since the 'All the Footprints...' days.

The band has had an extensive string of split records with many different bands over the years.

On April 1, 2016, vocalist Tetsuya  announced that he decided to leave the band. The remaining four members, Nobukata Kawai, Dairoku Seki, Masahiro Tobita and Manabu Nakagawa continued on as Envy. He later returned and joined the band for their 2020 comeback record 'The Fallen Crimson'. It is very much in the style of 'All the Footprints...'. 

2. Envy was a straight edge hardcore band from buffalo, new york.

3. Envy (currently known as Redound) is a Bulgarian beatdown hardcore band. 

4. Envy is a  female UK Urban artist from Manchester, UK.

5. Envy (EnV) is an artist on Newgrounds known for his trance and electronica tracks. 

6. Finnish gothic metal band, they formed in 2000 and changed name to Trespassenger in 2007, their style also changed to melodic death metal. 

7. American progressive symphonic metal band, they changed name to Envinity. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Envy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.