At least eight even bands use the name: Eon

1. Doom/Gothic Metal Mexican band.
2. An alias for Techno music artist Ian B. Loveday
3. Eon, alternative/progressive rock band from Serbia.
4. Project by Swiss visual artist/musician Dick Scherzinger
5. Personal sideproject of "B.Wolf" MySpace
6. Sideproject from the Dutch singersongwriter "Phinx"
7. A one off trance project by Ferry Corsten.
8. Harsh Noise from Dijon (France).  http://eonexp.bandcamp.com/

1. The band starts during the summer of 2003 in Monterrey, an industrial city amongst majestic mountains in Mexico.  Eon has participated in various national and international fests in Mexico along with many great bands such as: Leaves Eyes, Atrocity, Sentenced, Luzbel, Epica, Transmetal, The Gathering, Lacuna Coil, etc. The nominative "Eon" is chosen because it reflects a long period of time yet not determined by exact human means. "People like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion." Einstein 

2. Eon, an alias for Techno music artist Ian B. Loveday. who died on 17 June, 2009, was a pioneering producer of rave music. His first album, Void Dweller (1992), was a classic of the field, noted for its combination of hard beats and sinister movie samples. The record contained the rave scene hits Spice and Fear the Mind Killer and is considered a key link between '80s techno and modern dance music. He released records on various independent labels and was widely played on pirate radio. He had given performances at major nightclubs and also on John Peel 's Radio One show. He was a long-time collaborator of acid house legend Peter 'Baby' Ford and at the time of Eon's death they were working on a follow-up to previous albums Sum of Parts (2002), Device (2006) and Brain Filter (2007). 

3. Serbian: Grupa EON, formirana je u Beogradu krajem 2005 godine. Svoj prvi nastup bend je zabelezio u prolece 2006 a nakon nekoliko personalnih promena bend se ustaljuje u postavi: Srdjan Zuvic - vokal, Nikola Petrovic - gitara, Ozren Kragic - bas, Vladimir Vukas - bubnjevi i Rade Martinovic - Klavijature. U ovoj postavi grupa deluje naredne tri godine. Za to vreme zabelezili su ucesce u finalu demo masters turnira radia 202 i preko 80 nastupa sirom Srbije. U leto 2007 , izbacuju svoj prvi oficijelni demo snimak sa koga se izdvojila kompozicija Pevaj kojom bend svesno naginje ka vodama mainstream rocka kao jedan od retkih mladih bendova koji neguje ovaj pravac. U leto 2008 , Eon ulazi u studio Music Factory i pod producentskom palicom Milana Djurdjevica (Neverne Bebe), zapocinje snimanje svog prvog albuma koji biva zavrsen krajem 2009 godine. U medjuvremenu , Rade Martinovic sporazumno napusta bend a pocetkom 2010 iz benda iznenada odlazi gitarista Nikola Petrovic, jedan od osnivaca, glavni kompozitor i aranzer. Na njegovo mesto, par meseci kasnije dolazi Gitarista Goran Grmusa Grme da bi ubrzo nakon njegovog dolaska Eon imao svoj do sada najveci nastup, u Valjevu ispred Nevernih Beba i par hiljada ljudi. Grupa trenutno ceka izdavanje svog prvog albuma koji bi trebao da se pojavi do kraja godine.

4. Project created by Swiss visual artist and musician Dick Scherzinger (AKA Eonite as well).  Project was started in 1996 and released a single album 'Zeitraum' (Space of Time) only in Switzerland on CD in 1998.  With the introduction of the Internet, the project has moved its distribution online. http://www.eonmusic.ch/

5. EoN, is the personal sideproject of "B.Wolf". Created by this only member, composer and executor of all the instruments at the end of January 2008. Experimental music and minimalista. Pure mind reflected in the visions and perceptions of a human mind. MySpace

6. EON is a sideproject from de Dutch singer-songwriter "Phinx" (Vincent Beijer) on vocals and keys. Fellow bandmembers are Evert Zeevalkink - Guitars Jan Derks - Bass Maarten Hemmen - Drums Ward Henselmans - Keys, computer. (http://www.myspace.com/eontheband)

7. Eon was a one off project by famous trance producer Ferry Corsten. It only resulted in one release and two tracks, Pocket Damage and Talk To Me. Discogs

8. EON is an experimental harsh-noise artist hailing from Dijon, France. He has made many recordings, some being splits with other noise artists. Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.