The roots of the band are rising from the beginning of September 1995, when 3 close friends from a childhood were decided to play some Grind Core music. There were: Maksim "Raspator" Okopniy - voices, Eugen "T.Grinder" Shykarews'kiy - drums, Dmytro "Long" V'iaznykov - guitar. The frist Demo tape was recorded 3 months later after band's birth. It is miraculously that this Demo reached the common times under the proud title "Anal Catastrophe". However, the band had been ruined in cause of alcoholic addiction of the vocalist and migration of other people to Mental Demise band.

     On the 1998 was a first try to restore of Epicrise with the new line-up: Dmytro "Long" V'iaznykov (ex-Mental Demise) - bass, Yurko "Pinky" Lysiak - drums, Valeriy Vaschuk - guitar. During of 2 months of numerous rehearsals a new reh. Demo was recorded. But this record dissolved in time without a trace. It was lost. Epicrise died secondly right after the bassman had broken both hands & Pinky was taken to above mentioned Mental Demise.

     It was 3rd try to reborn the band on 1999. There old members as Eugen "T.Grinder" Shykarews'kiy (drums) & Yurko "Pinky" Lysiak (guitar/vocals) were returned and two newcomers as Ruslan "Grysha" Kopush together with Mykhailo Petrenko, who joined the band on the bass on the beginning of 2000. The music style had been changed more to Grinding Deathcore direction after the next line up was completed.

     On the middle of 2000 Epicrise started touring over Ukraine and participated on 1st issue of MHM fest. On the end of 2000 came new singer Maxim "Yugend" Vaschuk. At the same time Yurko "Pinky" Lysiak left Epicrise decided himself to concentrate on Mental Demise band only.

      In the middle of 2001 the band is preparing carefully to record of a new album. But Grysha was left the band extremely fast in cause of problems inside of his family & alcohol addiction again. This was a new stage of band history when they were seeking for a new guitar player, so the band became frozen for an undefined period.

     The new guitar player was found on the beginning of 2004. A new musical stuff born too fast with his participation & band returned to its roots of Porno Grind Core. For the moment the line up is following: 
Viyacheslav Ischenko (ex-Controvert Yap) - guitar
Mykhailo Petrenko - bass
Maxim "Yugend" Vaschuk - vocals
Eugen Shykarews'kiy (ex-Mental Demise) - drums

      During this stable cast tons of new songs were composed & band is touring too much. 

      On the beginning of June was planned small tour over Russia as headlines - Moscow/St. Petersburg, but crazy dog was ripped the had of drummer Eugen & tour was canceled... or better to say, removed on the later dates in the future.

      After the drummer been recovered his rippin' hand, on the end of July of 2006 year Epicirse entered to the Beast Studio and recorded the first 8 tracks studio try. It was finished to be mastered during August/September 2006 under the name "Plexus 69" and showing us a killing mix of Porno Grind with Crust Core. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Epicrise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.