Czech slamming brutal death metal band Epicardiectomy has been started in year of 2007 in Prague by Milan on drums and Zelda on guitar/vocals (now in Carnal Disfigurement). The musical style of a band already at the very beginning of its activity has been defined as very brutal and primitive slamming death metal. During the period from 2007 to 2009 the band’s line-up regularly changes and some of well known on Czech scene musicians like Tomas - guitar (Alienation Mental, Peficitizen), Lad’a - guitar (ex-Imperial Foeticide), Venca - vocals (ex-Victims, Black Stone Chronicles) are played in the band in a different times. At that time Epicardiectomy played a few shows but because of constant changes in line-up many of them have been cancelled and haven’t remained any more or less qualitatively made records for that period of time. 

The line-up has been definitively completed in year of 2009 with the arrival of Tom on vocals (WWW, Luco Brazzi) and Serge on guitar (Fleshbomb, ex-Katalepsy, ex-Membro Genitali Befurkator, ex-Anal Nosorog, God’s Eye Cataract). The band composes a new material; in year of 2010 recording a promo CD named Decomposed Entrails Colonoscopy and actively plays shows, having given a number of concerts in Czech Republic and abroad. In total from 2008 for 2011 Epicardiectomy has played tens of shows with such bands as Alienation Mental, Godless Truth, Smashed Face, Condemned, Kraanium, Nunslaughter, Katalepsy, and of course, it is necessary to note its participation in year of 2010 on world’s famous Mountains of Death festival in Switzerland. Along with that in year of 2010 Epicardiectomy participates the “Goresoaked Slammassacre” split-cd with Norwegian slamming machine Kraanium and Russian brutal death commando Dormant Carnivore which has been released by Pathologically Explicit recs. and very positively responded by world’s brutal death metal fans. 

The band continues to play shows, actively composes a new material and in year of 2011 records a new promo-cd called Ulcerous Cadaveric Decrepitation. Epicardiectomy receives a few offers from a different labels to release an upcoming full-length album, the best of which appears the offer from the Moscow label Coyote records, and a contract signing became a result of that. In year of 2012 the band releasing their debut full-length called “Abhorrent Stench Of Posthumous Gastrorectal Desecration”, played tens of gigs in their home country, around the Europe, and also did a 2 weeks tour over 13 cities in Russia supporting this release. As of 2014, they are currently working on their second full-length to be out this summer on Coyote Records. 

The members are:
Milan Moškon - drums
Serge Gordeev - guitars
Tom Vysoký - vocals

https://www.facebook.com/epicardiectomy
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Epicardiectomy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.