Steve Waller & Paul POOH Donohoe spawned the Epileptic Brain Surgeons in a basement in Bramalea in the mid-eighties. After a few members & line up changes the band ended up a four piece ensemble with Steve Waller on vocals, Pooh on lead guitars, Mike Myers on bass & guitars, & John McCuish on drums.

Once the band had some material written they joined along fellow local pioneers Curious Mold & Beyond for the "Bargain Basement Tours" and began killing shows at The House Of Anarchy, The Infamous Cat Shit Party, and numerous other parties and local clubs in the Brampton area.

In 1989 the Surgeons went into Musicplex studio A and recorded a 10 song demo with Archie Hachey entitled "Hell's Big Apple Bites Back Upon Family Brunch". I had the pleasure of sitting in on the session, I leant the boys my drums for the recording and I was lucky enough to do some back-up vocals. The demo was pure DIY and became an instant classic in the local scene.

E.B.S. put on one helluva live show, with high energy & everyone having fun. Their crossover style was a mix of thrash & hardcore topped off with the comical lyrical matter that could bring a smile to the face of the meanest of metalheads. EBS kept ripping up clubs, parties, & school dances until they caught the attention of Ron Sumners, who quickly signed them to Epidemic Records.

After an extensive search for a bass player Mike Chapman ended up filling the slot and EBS went back into the studio to record a full-length self-titled cassette at Cabin Fever. The recording was produced by James Cavaluzzo of Mal Havoc & engineered by Harold, Chris, & Serge. The sound was a bit more polished than their first demo but it still sold like hot cakes around the scene.

The Epileptics started tearing up skate parks, pizzerias, & local clubs in support of their new release with fellow label mates Mal Havoc & Deep End (members went on to form Trigger Happy). The exposure quickly led to some bigger venues, opening for the likes of The Day-Glo Abortions & Ludichrist just to name a few.

In the early 90s vocalist Steve Waller decided to move out to the west coast and the Surgeons days came to a close. I once had the honour of singing at a jam after Steve's departure and it was fun as hell, but the band eventually called it quits. Many of them went onto other musical ventures over the years & music will always continue be a big part of their lives. To this day Steve, Pooh, & Mike Myers all still keep in contact with each other and they are all doing well.

Epileptic Brain Surgeons were early pioneers of the hardcore scene in Brampton and they inspired a plethora of bands from the area for years to come. I have made this space to immortalize the music & the legend of The Epileptic Brain Surgeons. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Epileptic+Brain+Surgeons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.