There are multiple bands under the name "Epinikion". There is a Belgian symphonic metal band and an Ukrainian power metal band.

1) Epinikion - Symphonic Metal (Belgium, 2020 - present)
Epinikion is a symphonic metal band settled in Belgium. The band is founded in 2020 by Renate de Boer on keys and Robert Tangerman on guitar. The lineup is completed by Eleonora Damiano on vocals, and Emre Demir on bass. Levent Gasgil joined on lead guitar to complete the album and Joeri Warmerdam (Phantom Elite) will be the drummer for our live shows.

After Robert and Renate had ended their topsport careers, Robert came up with the idea to do something in music. The combination of his electric guitar and Renate’s classical piano almost naturally lead to the choice for symphonic metal music. As a bandname they chose ‘Epinikion’, which means ‘hymne for the winner’. In Ancient Greece the heroic stories of athletes were sung in an epinikion after their victories at major events. A phoenix was added to the band logo, as a sign of athletes resurrected from their ashes as musicians. As a result of the passion and sports mentality of Robert and Renate, the band evolved rapidly. It gave rise to the need of professional music production. From the very beginning Epinikion combined heavy guitar riffs with subtle progressive and heavy metal influences, completed with harmonic and bombastic orchestral lines. The typical Epinikion sound is described as ‘epic, cinematic with captivating melodic lines. Refreshing sympfonic metal with a personal twist’.

2) Epinikion - Power Metal (Ukrain, 2006-2009)
"Epinikion" means the song of triumph in Ancient Greek. And this is also a name of power metal band that rose in the heart of legendary capital of Kievan Rus at the early autumn of 2006. Three old friends, musicans all, joined their forces to create the best power metal album about the historical period of Kievan Rus. Their aim was to show the beautiful legends about heroes and events of that time to the english-speaking listeners and rise patriotic feelings of their fellow countrymen. Nine songs were composed, elaborated and recorded in two different language versions: english and ukrainan, during the year. Talented ukrainian artist Alex Buryak made all the artwork for the young but ambicious project and painted the fantasy-style portraits of Epinikion members. Experienced designer Natalya Postnaya made the dragon logo. When the studio work was done, live cast was gathered to start rehearsals and prepare the Epinikion for the live performances. That is the beginning of the long story... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Epinikion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.