5 bands called Epiphany
(1)Epiphany combine elements of neo-classical and folk music; The ambient soundscapes are reminiscent of the middle eastern texture and form experimented upon by progressive rock/metal groups such as Tool and Opeth. The structure also mimics Stravinsky to some degree.
(2) An emcee from Arkansas who is releasing his RESPECT mixtape series.
(3) An indie band from Monmouth, Wales
(4) An instrumental band from Melbourne featuring Johnny Mackay from Children Collide.
(5)“As long as I can remember I always wanted to sing. Once when I was younger my mother asked me, “If there were one thing and one thing only, that you could see yourself doing for the rest of your life. What would it be?” I answered, “I would sing. I would be a singer.” That same desire rings true even today taking Epiphany from her first solo performance “Can’t Get a Man With a Gun,” in the sixth grade to the acclaimed High School for the Performing and Visual Art’s Grammy® Award Winning Music Department and even the stage of NBC's Clash of the Choirs where she shared the stage with the like of Patti Label, Michael Bolton and Kelly Rowland. At the tender age of twenty-two singer songwriter and native Houstonian Epiphany has been accompanied on stage by the Houston Symphony,performed for Miss America 2003,and headlined as feature performer for Julius "Dr. J" Irving's Houston All-Star Game party. As songstress of choice for some of the industry’s most prolific music producers, Epiphany has a bright and diverse career ahead of her. That same diversity shines through even in theater. She has performed in four stage plays; Our Feet Can Tell a Story, Whatever Happened to Our Love where she not only performed but co-wrote the lead in composition, The Gospel According to Hip Hop, and The Gospel at Colonus. In the latter two plays Epiphany featured as a solo vocalist. 
(6) Symphonic Black Metal Band from Serra, Espírito Santo.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Epiphany">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.