Epoch Crysis - a Russian/Norwegian/Finnish Modern Metal act who combine mind-blowing themes with catchy melodies.
This band create individual and unique sound that is able to crush any listener’s ears. Check them out and be aware!

http://www.facebook.com/epochcrysisofficial
http://www.reverbnation.com/epochcrysis
http://www.myspace.com/epochcrysis
http://vkontakte.ru/epochcrysisrusofficial
http://www.drugmetal.ru/blog/epochcrysis/

The band was formed by Artiom Vishniakov (drums, bass) and Vladimir Klimov (guitar, keyboards) in 2000. However, the band didn’t have any officially released material for several years.
In 2006, the band produced its first demo «Terminated Memories». Speaking of that period’s style, the band’s works were in the melodic death metal genre based off of chiptune music with some influence from modern metal. Three years later, the first regular release was out: mixed at studio 24192, the single «Ablaze Within» unveiled the band’s artistic catholicity by efficiently combining catchy melodies with high-speed guitar technique and impressively co-ordinated rhythm section. Those were to become the band’s distinctive features. However, one of the founding members, Artiom Vishniakov, left the band in late 2010. The remaining members Vladimir Klimov (guitar) and Alexander Doroshin (keyboards) decided to make a ground-breaking move and invite new band members via the Internet, as the band was unable to play live anyway. Some fresh blood flooded in with Norwegian Hilmar Vollan (guitar) and Ivan Tarapyga (drums) and enabled Epoch Crysis to release the EP «Antique Industry», which, unfortunately, didn’t earn wide propagation due to extremely low quality of sound engineering. Nevertheless, the musical component of the new material received a number of positive reviews. Andrei Puchinskiy (ex-Fiend) made a guest appearance on the final track playing its solo.
Just a few months later, after having switched the former drummer for Nikita Kondratiev, the band released their new album Rex. Its genre was a mix of a multitude of heavy music styles and was called by the musicians themselves melodic extreme metal. The album received rapturous responses from listeners, several positive reviews and the attention of several record labels. However, the band turned down the labels’ offers and released the new album «Gal Agnostiske Drommer» , which was raw melodic black metal with Norwegian lyrics, absolutely uncharacteristic of Epoch Crysis’ music. The vocals on this release were performed by Alexander Doroshin (it later turned out to be his last work with Epoch Crysis) and the drums were played by Toivo Laine, who also left the band soon after. When the last track of «Gal Agnostiske Drommer» was in work, bassist Sergei Illarionov turned up to assist in its recording and subsequently became a permanent member of the band.
The band has recently released their latest EP «Who Goes There?» and have plenty preliminary drafts for future material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Epoch+Crysis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.