The band has existed in various forms under different names since 1990 but it wasnt until 1994 they officially decided upon EPOCH OF UNLIGHT.

It was this later this year that their first demo, Beyond the Pale, was released as a 4 song cassette. In 1995 they recorded their second demo, 'Within The Night' as a 4-song MCD, and in May of 1997 they returned to the studio to record three new tracks. The new songs have been released as a promo CD entitled 'Black & Crimson Glory. This promo captured the attention of many labels and in the winter of 1998, EPOCH OF UNLIGHT signed with THE END RECORDS. Shortly thereafter the band entered the studio to record their debut full-length album. Entitled 'What Will Be Has Been', the album was described as a mix of melodic death/black metal.

The band supported the release with countless live shows including a five week national tour with Dimmu Borgir and Samael. The tour consisted of over 30 shows in the major metal cities all across the USA .

The second album, Caught In The Unlight!, was recorded in December of 2000 with Keith Falgout (Soilent Green, Crisis, Crowbar and Cephalic Carnage, among others). The result was a sonic assault of 10 aggressive tracks that were more intense, technical, and melodic than the debut attributing to an album that is memorable and varied at the same time. 

The band supported C.I.T.U. with numerous live shows through the country including a two week national tour with Enslaved and an appearance at the first annual Northern Lights Festival in Toronto, Canada. 

In 2003 EOU recorded a cover of Kreator's 'Betrayer' and At the Gates Raped by the Light of Christ for a split 7" single with Goatwhore through Bloated Goat Records. 

The band entered Big Blue Meenie studio in New Jersey during October 27th through November 4th to record their third release for The End Records, entitled The Continuum Hypothesis. The album was engineered and co-produced by Erin Farley (All Out War, Agnostic Front, Sick Of It All, Madball, M.O.D., Overkill, among others) The resulting 53+ minute album includes 11 new songs of brutally intense, melodic metal and features the debut of new singer B.J. Cook (a.k.a. Lord Hellspawn) from Arkansas' Fallen Empire.

In 2005 the band hit the road twice to support "The Continuum Hypothesis". In May the band toured with Devildoll recording artists Recourse and in September the band joined the International Extreme Music Festival. The Festival featured God Dethroned and Nightrage as well as several other bands. The tour also marked the return of guitarist Steven Blagburn to fill the long vacant 2nd guitar slot. 

 
 
 



 
Members    Tino LoSicco - drums 
B.J. Cook - vocals 
Josh Braddock - guitar 
Steve Blagburn - guitar 
Joe Totty - bass 
 
 
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Epoch+of+Unlight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.