Description:
EQUALEFT were born in V.N. Gaia, Porto, Portugal in 2003, from the ashes of ex-members from Mysterium, Tremble and This Grace, with the aim of playing an eclectic and dynamic sound.

Influenced by the likes of Sepultura, Pantera, Machine Head, Tool, Meshuggah, Mastodon, The Dillinger Escape Plan and others, their sound is best described as Metal full of groove, power and melody.

The first demo "as the irony preVails..." was recorded and released in 2008.

Performing live is their current priority...

Equaleft @ My Space

E-mail: equaleft@hotmail.com


Biography:
In the very first year, only after 2 shows, at Zum-Zum & Hard Club, Rui Filipe (guitar) was replaced by Veggy, that has brought an injection of "weight" to the band's sound.

With this formation, the band continued to explore metal and has began to incorporate more progressive and innovating sounds.
The result has payed off and the band played alongside bands such as W.A.K.O., Seven Stitches, The End Gate, Hatetrigger, Voidshape and Colombia.

With the help of some friends, EQUALEFT recorded their first videoclip, from the song "Sober" during a performance in April of 2006 at Hard Club.

After having spend 3 years in the band, Super (drums) abandoned to dedicate exclusively to his other band: Colombia.

For personal reasons, Piranha (bass) left the band in September, 2006.
In November, 2006, André (member of July 13) joins EQUALEFT as the new bass player.

Snyper was supporting the band right from the start and has, eventually, become a member.
Photography and Web are a big part of his life and work.
During live performances, he is the person that stays closer to the front to take care of the media (video projections, photography and filming.).

In the first days of 2007, Maglor announced his departure. The fills his space with Licínio.
They spend 4 months rehearsing old and new songs.
Still during the year of 2007, in early April, Maglor returns to the band...
Also in 2007, the original Bass player, Piranha, re-joins as a guest to help them in concerts until they find a new bassist, and eventually he ends up recording the basslines in the first demo.
In the latest months of 2008, enters new bassist XNE (Assassinner; Ex-Crackdown & Strain).

With this line-up EQUALEFT releases their  first demo "as the irony preVails...". It brings them some great reviews and opens new doors. LOUD! (the best known Metal magazine in Portugal) gives them an 8.6/10 as score for the demo.

This year they played in some of the most known Metal Festivals in Portugal. They won the "Arena Metal" contest, and played live on the SWR Barroselas festival. 
To create new songs for the up-coming EP, and play live as much as they can... is their top priority.

Stay tuned to the "News" tab here in LastFM for new info.

Current Line-Out:
Miguel aka Inglês (Vocals)
Nuno aka Veggy (Guitar)
Maglor (Guitar)
Xne (Bass)
Marcos aka Mark (Drums)
Rui aka SnYPeR (Visual / Media)


Original Line-Out:
Miguel aka Inglês (Vocals)
Maglor (Guitar)
Rui Filipe (Guitar)
Ricardo aka Piranha (Bass)
Pedro aka Super (drums)


Past Member's:
Rui Filipe - Guitar (2003 - 2004)
Pedro "Super" - Drums (2003 - 2006)
Licínio - Guitar (2007)
André Branco - Bass (2007)
Ricardo aka Piranha (Bass)


Influences:
Sepultura, Pantera, Machine Head, Tool, Meshuggah, Metallica, Opeth, Mastodon, Fear Factory, Cult of Luna, Carcass, The Dilinger Escape Plan, Death, My Dying Bride... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Equaleft">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.