There are several groups producing material under the name Equinox:

1. An Bulgarian band (consisting of Zhana Bergendorff, Georgi Simeonov, Vladimir Mihailov, Johnny Manuel and Trey Campbell) who represented Bulgaria at the Eurovision Song Contest 2018.

2. Norwegian thrash metal band formed in 1982 featuring Grim Stene - Vocals, guitars Skule Livsson Stene - Bass Jørn Wangsholm - Drums (1992-95) Espen Holm - Guitars (1992-95) Ragnar "Raggen" Westin - Drums (until 1992) Tommy Skarning - Guitars (1987-92)
They started out as Rebellion in 1982 and then changed their name to Equinox in 1987. They split-up in 1995.
Official Equinox Forum @ http://forum.originalgrim.com

3. US Progressive metal from Minessota. They only realeased 1 LP, (named Color of the Time" (1995)

4. Renowned drum & bass artist, real name Marlon Sterling. Runs Scientific Wax (http://www.scientificwax.com). His best known songs are "Acid Rain" & "Alpha Proxima". Keeping the original sound of drum & bass alive!

5. One of the many side-projects of Industrial band Front Line Assembly

6. UK based hard trance producer that also releases tracks under the name Expander.

7. Washington, DC, band whose 2000 release "Rise Up" combines elements of dub, dancehall, hip hop, minimal pop, punk, Haitian percussion, and funk. Equinox featured Hugh McElroy, later of Black Eyes, and Saran, later of AKA Harlot #1.

8. Rock band from Azerbaijan.

9. A rock band, from the midlands, UK.
they describe themselves simply as
'2 Guys with Instruments, Voices, and Emotions'.

10. A group from Cambridge, UK

11. Progressive metal band from Serbia 
The band was created in the autumn of 2007 and it comes from the capital of Serbia,Belgrade.It is mostly influenced by the bands such as Pain Of Salvation and Dream Theater.During the period of one year,the band was working hard and as a result,a mini EP was recorded in the winter of 2008/2009.''Leaving Behind'' contains four songs which will justify the mention of above mentioned bands...Even though there were serious problems with stability of the line-up (a guitarist,a bassist and four keyboardists were replaced) the band is now in a stable setting and in an active search for a new keyboardist and adequate vocal.

12. A jazzcombo from The Netherlands, playing hardbop.
www.equinoxjazzonline.com

13. A United States black/death metal band from Florida.

14. An American DJ/Producer specialising in House and Electronic/Dance. 
Equinox is a producer/DJ reigning from San Diego, CA who uses all aspects of musical influence to put songs together. Beginning as a drummer in a deathcore (metal) band, he slowly became interested in electronic dance music (EDM). With quick interests in dubstep, electro house, house, Equinox felt like this was something he could become apart of. With countless crappy takes on FL Studio, Equinox learned his way through it and got deep into the producing mode. With random melodies, basslines and rhythms stuck in his head, he brings them to life and shares with all listeners willing to press "play". (Abraham Laguna's words)
http://soundcloud.com/itsequinox

15. A United States black metal band (refers to their music as "dark metal" due to the inclusion of neofolk, martial, and drone influences) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Equinox">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.