"The cold mystic winds of Nanakanisurra," a scarlet spell upon Prometheus and fervent candlelight are the doleful elements that brought Equimanthorn together in the year 1992. The members of Absu were determined to choose an alternate path. This pathway warped them through storms of occult sciences and the mythology of the ancient Sumerians. 

In the past decade, Equimanthorn has manifested as a wayward project commanding the participation of other prominent occult-minded musicians. Through experimental and droned ceremonial oblations, Equimanthorn expresses anguish and treacherous lust without ever forgetting the ironic twist that endures in their craft. 

Equimanthorn is a project that exceeds the limits of a category for their style of occult-ambient music. The elements, in which are used, might be labeled as ritualistic, mysterious, exquisite yet haunting to name a few. This is the ultimate soundtrack dedicated to Sumerian fables, featuring members from Absu, Zemial, Melechesh and The Soil Bleeds Black! 


DISCOGRAPHY 

Entrance to the Ancient Flame - Demo 1992

An Evening of Blasphemous Moon Worship - Live 1992

Evolutionary Traditions of the Judas Goat - Demo 1992

Imp - Demo 1993 

Nindinugga Nimshimshargal Enlillara - CD/Picture LP Unisound 1993

Lectionum Antiquarum - CD Unisound 1999

Second Sephira Cella - CD From Beyond 2004 

Exalted are the 7 Throne Bearers of Ninnkigal - CD From Beyond 2007


With the sundry recordings on this album, we have, for the third time in any conventional or esoteric form, summoned forth the most vital of experimental soundscapes - that of Exalted are the Seven Throne Bearers of Ninnkigal. 

In this enthralling work, Equimanthorn, a wayward project arising from Sumerian-fabled and candlelit peculiarities, has contrived, ordered and combined these fragmented pieces for you. Such synthesis has transpired in order to create an authentic portrait of pure ritual magic(k). 

Designed audibly with intonational artifacts of the period, the sounds on this record guide the listener through the ominous realms of Equimanthorn. Passionate, exotic and memorable, Exalted are the Seven Throne Bearers of Ninnkigal is a compelling mélange of myths timely in its rediscovery. "When the seventh day arrived…" 

Emperor Proscriptor Magikus, 2007 


Members:

Emperor Proscriptor Magikus: 
The Voices of Kali Ma, Percussives, Darabukke, Synthesizers, VC3, Mellotron, Circumvent Filters, Piano, Wintry Flute, Recorder, Bypass Filters, Libation, Glass, Chutzpa, Serpentines and Lyrical Magic(k). 

Equitant: 
Unseen Voices, Synthesizers (Moog and Arp 2600), Effects, Percussives and Lyrical Magic(k). 

Ekimmu Abstractum: 
Narrations, Alto Recorder, Wooden Flute, Samples, Entities, Chimes, Sixfold Bow and Synthesizer. 

Dalkhu Zilittu: 
Synthesizers, Sourcing, Pitch Shifting, Effects and Lyrical Incantations. 

Vorskaath: 
Voices, Chorus and Narratives, Electric guitar, Synthesizers, FX, African Iron drum, Tablas, Drum-set and Percussion Seism. The Overseer of Spells and Musing. 

Vordhr Dzokhk: 
A Fourth Conjuration, Fretless Bass, Implementations and Unhallowed Wind. 

AmyXul: 
A 12th Voice of Kali Ma. 

Moloch: 
Sumerian Bouzouq, Goblet Drum and Percussives. 

Weibes Blut: 
Unseen Voices. 

Devamitra: 
Synthesizers and Effects. 



Former Sorcerers: 

The Black Mass Prayer: 
Inverted Keyboards and Programming from the City of Ur 

Shaftiel Nuctumeron: 
Unholy Chants from the Underworld and Spoken Passages 

Michael A.: 
Narrations of the New Dawn and Effects 

Lady Zethar Adramaleck: 
Sorcery Voice from Prometheus (Soprano in F) 

http://www.myspace.com/equimanthornmusik 
http://www.equimanthorn.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Equimanthorn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.