There is more than one band/artist with this name:

1. Era (Enminential Rythmn of the Ancestors) (styled as eRa) is a New Age music project by French composer Eric Lévi. The band has sold more than 12 million albums. They use lyrics (by Guy Protheroe) which although similar to Greek or Latin are in fact deliberately devoid of any exact meaning.

Era mixes Gregorian chants and occasionally world music with contemporary electronic arrangements. It is reminiscent of New Age music projects such as Enigma, Gregorian, and Deep Forest. Era lyrics are written in Pseudo-Latin, as well as in English. Some of them are based on beliefs of the 13th century French Christian sect, the Cathars.

Era's live shows and music videos often feature artists dressed in medieval or traditional clothes and armour. Most usually, actors Pierre Bouisierie and Irene Bustamante perform at Era shows.

"As a rule, I try to avoid copying musical styles which are imposed by epochs and cultures; I am always on the lookout for strong emotions; the sort that accompany an epic film. In fact, I am writing music for a film which has not yet been made!" says Eric Levi.

Eric Lévi (real name Eric Jacques Levisalles), born 1955 in Paris, France, is a musician. In 1975 Eric Lévi founded the hard rock band Shakin' Street with Fabienne Shine, which would release the two albums Vampire Rock and Solid as a Rock. Shakin' Street briefly toured with AC/DC and the Blue Öyster Cult before disbanding in 1981. He then moved to New York, and back to Paris in 1992. Later on in his career, Eric Lévi wrote the musical score to several movies, including L'Opération Corned-beef and the comedy Les Visiteurs which was an international success and one of the highest grossing movies of all time in France.

Lévi is best known for being the mastermind behind the musical project ERA, and for inventing the Latin sounding words of these songs.

Era's self-titled debut album in 1997 proved to be a hit, becoming the most exported French album with over 6 million copies sold. A sequel, Era 2 was released in 2000, followed by Era: The Mass in 2003. The trilogy is characterized by a mixture of rock, synth, and pseudo-Latin Gregorian chant.

In 1999, he moved to London, where he lives today.

Members
Eric Lévi
Guy Protheroe
Pierre Boisserie
Irene Bustamante
Lena Jinnegren
Eric Geisen
Florence Dedam
Murielle Lefebvre
Chester Thompson
Lee Sklar
Daryl Stuermer
Philippe Manca

Discography:
1998 Era
2000 Era 2
2003 The Mass
2004 The Very Best of Era
2006 Music of Legend
2008 Reborn
2009 Classics 
2010 The Essential 
2010 Classics Vol 02 

2. Era is a japanese duo formed by violinist Akihisa Tsuboy and guitarrist Natsuki Kido, playing instrumental acoustic music.

Discography:
2002 Era
2004 Totem
2006 Three Colors of the Sky
2010 忘れられた舟
2012 Jewels

3. ERA is a Melodic Metal band from China. They also use the EMG for Era Music Group.
They released a Demo on the old mp3.com in 2002.

4. Era was thrash/heavy metal band from Bulgaria.They have one full length named "Point of View' which was released in 1994.

5. Era is a melodic hardcore band from Lincoln, Nebraska. Playing in the vein of Verse, Chain Of Strength, and Champion. Their self titled demo will be out on Nihilism Records in January.
myspace.com/eranebraska
myspace.com/nihilismrecordsne

6. Era were a jazz and funk band active in South Africa in the early 1980s. They were fronted by Queenstown jazz vocalist Stompie Mavi. Other members were Buggs Tafu on guitar, Xuba Xaba on alto, Don Heba on  trumpet, Sam Nxusani on bass,  Desmond Malotana on keyboards, Gambu Pasiya on teno, Zola Sishuba on backing vocal and Themba Mngomezulu on drums.

7. Era is a Dutch Rapper from The Netherlands - Amsterdam. 

8. Era is an Industrial Metal/Heavy Metal project by musician, guitarist and producer Loki Bolton. With him playing all instruments his work consists of Industrial Metal mixed with elements of Thrash, Heavy metal and acoustic music.
https://youtube.com/channel/UCvb-zs1dpLUDnpQflswXlfA <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Era">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.