There are 5 bands named Eradication:

1. A French black metal band
2. An English thrash/ death metal band
3. A German thrash metal band
4. A Finnish band playing progressive heavy metal
5. An American Melodic Death Metal band

---
1. French Eradication is a raw black metal band formed in 2003. 

Last known line-up: 
Kaiser W. - guitars / vocals (Ad Hominem)
Syl - vocals / bass
Sad - drums

Release: 
2004 - The Great Cleaning


2. 
Hailing from London, UK, SOAR presents ERADICATION. They bring all out death-thrash to the table with an indomitable approach that will leave the majority of modern thrash bands fading in their wake. Providing not only a master class in contemporary extreme musicianship, but also an unprecedented live performance, they have laid waste to venues across the UK and left audiences shell-shocked. 
Debut album 'Dreams of Reality' in stores 7/2/2011

'Dreams of Reality' 
KKK- Kerrang review, "they deliver with such force they're hard to ignore. 

Eradication merch-
www.eradication.bigcartel.com/

http://siegeofamida.bigcartel.com/products


3. German Eradication is a thrash metal band.
Release:
- "Blind Through Religion" (14 Demo) (06/1988)


4. Eradication was actually never formed. It developed. In 2001 Teemu (guitars, vocals) joined forces with Mikko (guitars, vocals) and Olle (drums), who had been playing together since the mid-90's. Bass player Esa Tuokko joined in 2002. The line-up was short lived, Teemu and Esa left in fall 2002.

During 2001-03 Mikko and Olle had written enough songs for their very first demo but without a proper vocalist the band was more or less standing still. Ville Kaaronen (vocals, guitars) was asked to join the band. The band was named after the lyrics of Megadeth's Rust in peace...Polaris and the self titled demo was released in early 2004. New songs had already been written and recording sessions started soon. However recording (and re-recording) was a long process and Nightmares was released in November 2004. Bass player Jere Naski joined the day Nightmares was released.

Once again the band had already written lots of new material. The third promo was titled Hard Heavy & Loud. The new songs were way stronger than the older. They were shorter and punchier, not too long like on Nightmares.

Ville felt that his vocal efforts were holding the band back and decided to leave in summer 2005. The band tried to look for a new vocalist but no one good enough wanted to join so Mikko decided to take the vocal duties. Shortly after Jere left due personal matters. Mikko and Olle recorded and released all the remaining material as Burn Out.

The band decided not to look for a second guitar player. Mikko picked up the bass because the band couldn't find a bass player and Teemu wanted to join the band again. The original line-up started recording and Long Lost, Finally Found demo was released in January 2006.

Teemu left the band in July 2007. Ville Muona replaced him. In September the band released a new cd called "The Unknown". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eradication">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.