There are 8 bands with the name Erebus.

1) Erebus is a experimental doom/sludge/noise band from the US. Erebus was first formed in 1993 by Delial MacClaugherty and Dean Forge. Erebus is widely known for mixing traditional sludge elements with noise and dark ambient. Releasing their first album on Moros Publishings in 1995, they have gained some wide success in the western United States. 

Erebus's Website

2) Erebus is a political thrash/groove metal band from Madison, Wisconsin. Erebus adds elements from many different styles of metal and other forms of music while maintaining a consistent groove.  Current lineup: Dave Frazer - vocals; Gage Trader - guitar; Jon Frazer- drums; Derek Silloway - Bass.

Erebus Official Site
Erebus Myspace

3) Erebus was also a short lived melodic ambient project of Keith Barnard that released one album called 'Transendental' in 2000. 

4) Erebus is a death-metal/metalcore band from Kampen, The Netherlands
Myspace

5) Erebus is a rock/metal band from Adelaide, Australia, formed February 2009, and consisting of Dilys Li (lead guitarist/backing vocals), Matt Lang (vocalist/guitarist) and Bront Carter (drums). 

Official Erebus MySpace

6) Erebus is a psytrance project.

7) Erebus is a black metal band from South Africa

8) Erebus is a black metal band from Brazil based in Dublin (Ireland)
Erebus horde was formed in July 1995 in Belo Horizonte, Brazil by Sabazios (Guitars) and Profanus (Vocals) with the proposal of disseminate chaos and darkness to a society fragmented by the great christian dogmatism. After a few years in silence, Erebus rise again in 2007 from the ashes and dust left by the time to continue its journey over the land of fire under a magick aurea recovering the ancient pagan tradition that inspires its lyric conceptions. Based in ancient mythological cults that were covered by the dust of times. Its music preserve the essence of the obscure, agressive and extreme black metal practiced in the beginning of 1990. In the year 2007, Erebus releases its debut album called ‘’Domminium Of Hades’’ with 8 tracks and right after participated in different festivals of true black metal within Brazil. In July2009, Erebus move to Ireland and is preparing new material with new band members to the most noble who appreciate extreme black metal. ..

Erebus on MySpace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Erebus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.