Erector Spinae is a doom metal band from Ravenstein, Netherlands, formed in 1995.

History
When Hein Wiegerinck left and Joris van Duijne joined the band in september 1995, Erector Spinae as we now know it was born. After a peroid of writing new material, the band was ready to hit the studio. The first demo called "Erector Spinae" was recorded in Stonesound Studios and was ready on 26 April 1996. It contained 8 songs and they were all recorded in one day. Lead vocalist at that time was Han van Dijk and additional guitars were played by Jeroen van Eijndhoven, a former band-member. The manager, Nicolas Kneepkens had at that time (January 1996) joined to take care of our promotion.
After a few gigs, like the show as support-act of Sadist (Italy) in Mill, Han van Dijk left the band and the search for a new vocalist began. For a while Erector thought to have found a replacement in Seth van der Loo (now drummer of Centurian), but eventually bass-player Jurriaan Janssen discovered his own Death-grunt and singing-capacity. Meanwhile there had been some gigs and a lot of time to write and try out new material, so it was studio-time once again.
The second demo was recorded at Harrow Productions in Losser (NL) on the 20th and 21st of April 1998 with the whole band, and individualy in the following days. Erik and Harry of Harrow and Erector Spinae engineerd it and the overall result was astonishing. The band received very good reviews and that resulted in many gigs, including Aardschok's Metal Bash in Landraaf. This demo was called "Dopaminium". It containes 4 songs with a total play-time of about 30 minutes.
Sadly though, the success-story was three times interrupted. First Jikke Jansen had a karting-incedent, wich took her about 6 months to recover. Secondly (again) Jikke broke her wrist and was unable to play the keyboards for 3 months. And most recently Juriaan Jansen had Pheiffer and was therefore out of business for over 8 months. This all sadly stood in the way of having the so-called snowball-effect after the release of the demo, but Erector Spinae is back now and working hard to get where they want to be: at the top.

Discography
1996 - Erector Spinae (demo)
1998 - Dopaminium (demo)

Members
Juriaan Jansen - lead vocals, bass
Michel Govers - guitars, vocals
Jikke Jansen - keyboards, female vocals
Joris van Duine - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Erector+Spinae">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.