erFiq is a death metal band originally founded in 2001 by Chris Clover and Matt Neyland and went through several different lineup changes finalizing in 2004 Under the Name "Death is Certain" with the lineup listed above. Shortly after going into the studio to start the first official release in 2005 the band took a temporary hiatus and Chris Clover did fill in work as a favor for a former band member, Omar Waqar. Upon returning to finish the recording on February 25th, 2006 Chris Clover received a phone call informing him that long time friend and bassist, Aaron "erFiq" Brown had been shot and killed at a local iHop by off duty police officer, Carl Stow. The family filed suit for wrongful death, as Carl Stow's story did not match up to anyone elses at the scene, as well as the shots were fired after it was said by a waitress that Aaron and the people he was with had left without paying the bill. It was soon found out, but barely released, that the money had been sitting on the table underneath a menu. Deciding that Aaron was irreplacable, the band took another hiatus deciding to not go through with mixing, mastering, or releasing what had been recorded. All things to do with the band were left as they were and soon after the remaning band mates went there separate ways. Just two short months later, Chris Clover received another devastating phone call On April 21st, 2006 informing him that Jeremiah "Great Bear" Martin had passed away in his sleep from a prescribed combination of medication that relaxed him to the point where he stopped breathing. That being the final straw, it was official that the band would not be continuing. Over time, Matt Neyland joined the band "Knee Deep" a Washington, DC based Funk band and currently is plaing with Death-Core band "Every One Dies", Chris Schoonover joined the United States Army and is currently stationed in Hawaii, and Chris Clover re-joined Diacritical with Omar Waqar and then married and moved to Florida to start Mobile Media Mastering, to make long stories short. Clover, Matt, and Schoonover met once in early 2007 to record a Memorial Edition of the last song that was written together, but that too never went anywhere.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/erFiq">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.