Eric Saade (born on 29th October 1990, in Kattarp, Helsingborg, Sweden, to a Lebanese father and a Swedish mother) is a Swedish pop singer. He represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 2011, held in Düsseldorf, Germany, with the song Popular, and came 3rd in the final, receiving a total of 185 points. 

Saade first came to prominence after his win in the Swedish music contest Joker (now Popkorn). He was also a member of the Swedish boyband What's Up!. He left the band in February 2009 to pursue his solo career. 

Saade voiced the character of Shane in the Swedish version of Disney's "Camp Rock", and, as a part of the band What's Up!, recorded the soundtrack for the film, titled "Here I am". During the summer of 2009, Saade was a presenter on Disney Channel's popular My Camp Rock, a Scandinavian music competition based on the Disney Channel's hit movie "Camp Rock". He also appeared on Julias Stjärnskott, a competition for young people.

Saade signed his first music contract when he was 16, which resulted in three singles and one album. In August 2009, Saade signed a new contract with Roxy Recordings (Agnes Carlsson, Malena Ernman, Peter Jöback, Erik Hassle, Sarah Dawn Finer). In December 2009, Saade released his first worldwide single Sleepless. 

Saade participated in the 2nd semi-final of the Melodifestivalen 2010, on 13th February, at the Göransson Arena, Sandviken, with the song Manboy, written by Fredrik Kempe, and won the semi-final. The final took place on 13th March. Saade finished 3rd, coming 2nd in the televoting. He was the Swedish spokesperson in the final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2010.

Saade's debut solo album, titled Masquerade, was released in May 2010.

He came back to Melodifestivalen in 2011, with the song Popular, written by Fredrik Kempe. He won the 3rd semi-final, held on 19th February, at the Cloetta Center, Linköping. He also won the final, held on 12th March, at the Globe Arena in Stockholm, getting the highest number of points (193) from both the international juries and televoters, leaving In the Club by Danny behind as the runner-up with 149 points.

Saade represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 in the 2nd semi-final, held on 12th May, in the Esprit Arena, Düsseldorf, Germany. He won the semi-final, receiving a total of 155 points, leaving Denmark's entry behind as the runner-up with 135 points. Saade came 3rd in the final, held on 14th May, receiving a total of 185 points.

On 29 June 2011 he released his second album "Saade Vol. 1". It's one of two parts in which the actual album "Saade" was divided.
The other part, "Saade Vol. 2", was released on November 30. Both albums topped the Swedish single charts. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eric+Saade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.