Eric Lau is a London-based producer who has been busy making musical waves for others. He may well be a producer you've heard, but not heard of, by way of his productions for the likes of Lupe Fiasco, Dudley Perkins, Georgia Anne Muldrow, Guilty Simpson, Wildchild, Tanya Morgan, Hil St Soul, and a family of upcoming artists who feature on New Territories, his debut solo album.

His slick and edgy productions have turned the ears of Gilles Peterson (Lau appeared on his Brownswood Bubblers release of October 2006) and Fat City Records who released Eric Lau presents Dudley & Friends in January 2007. Tastemakers and peers like Benji B (BBC Radio 1Xtra) called Laus soulful street sounds Heavy, Phonte (of Little Brother) added that Lau is One of the illest beatmakers. 

New Territories has a double meaning. Its the area in Hong Kong that the Lau family are from and regularly visit. People have a vision of Hong Kong being sky scrappers and high rises everywhere, says Lau. However, the area known as New Territories is full of mountain ranges, sea, villages and farm land. Its very peaceful and pure there, and these are qualities I try to incorporate into my production. Also, the title refers to the album and the global musical connections it made. There are many young artists on the record and our roots are from around the world, explains Lau. Even though we are from different backgrounds we approached the album with the same mindset and all want to help each other get to where we want to be. This record is a new territory for us as a group of artists, and I hope that it is, in turn, a refreshing listen.

UK born Lau has only relatively recently got into music production, but delved-in neck-deep. I dont really have a very musical family or musical upbringing, he says. But apparently my mother used to sing Chinese opera during the revolution in Hong Kong. Moving to London at the age of 19 his time at University there turned him on to the possibility of music as a way of life. Just being in London, with an open mind, thats all it took, he explains. Now 26 years old, Lau is either in the studio, or can be found teaching at RollingSound, a youth-led multimedia education company. At RollingSound under-privileged inner-city kids get to learn music production, DJ-ing, video gamed design, photography, film and web design. I ve been their head tutor and artistic consultant for the last 3 years and have had a big say in the design of the courses and delivery, says Lau. If I was not doing the music thing I would definitely put all my efforts in to teaching and work in the youth sector as I have seen so many talented young people take their skills in multimedia and more importantly life to the next level. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eric+Lau">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.