Unfortunately Last.fm doesn't have disambiguation features yet. and there are two artists here using the name Eridanus. One is a metal band. The other is an electronic mash-up artist. It's not too difficult to figure out which is which. Play nice until Last.fm gets their act together.

Bio for Eridanus, the electronic mash-up artist:
In January 2008, a Michigan man in his mid-twenties discovered a digital DJ utility. What started as amateur fiddling soon became a large-scale mash-up project. By April, this album was born.

This is an interpretation of original works, not a replacement for them. Most combinations arose spontaneously through improvised mixes. Positive matches were then grouped together and tested for compatibility. Nothing has been perfected or mastered.

Each of these songs carries a built-in illusion. They each fit in some way, large or small, into the patchwork of our culture. This project is an experiment to remix that culture – not just to remix the songs. They really shouldn’t even be called remixes, mash-ups, or any other inane categorization. The songs themselves are not altered from their original state. They are just set against other songs – like photos cut and pasted into a collage. You might have never even heard some before. Others might be so ingrained in your psyche that they shoot you back to a very specific time and place, maybe even a certain date in history.

In this context, we see the dialogue of popular music that runs through the years, but in a new light and from a wholly new perspective. This allows us to be surprised over and over again. The mixes can overturn months and seasons, and fight the repression of time. The songs play hopscotch with the decades, jumping across vast stretches instantaneously.

The album also eradicates geographical boundaries of nations and territories. The music here originated in places like Australia, California, Sweden, Toronto, England, Brazil, Paris, Denmark, Mexico, Atlanta, Norway, and New York. They started in those places, and ended up in the global music community.

Music is one of the great experiences of our time. It can never really be owned – only created, heard and felt. The music has spilt out into the public, no matter who wants to try and contain it. This is our future. Interactivity. Transformation. Collaboration. Cooperation. Sharing. Growth. Progress. Culture is not a ladder – it is a web. The Internet has become our culture, while at the same time strengthening what our culture used to be.

The moment has come to invade the collective unconscious and throw a dance party.

Most importantly, even these words are meaningless when attached to the album. Only instinctual responses remain. Flail your arms around. Do cartwheels. Perform never-before-seen tribal dances. Or press “delete” on the album folder and send it back into the void. It’s all up to you.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/eridanus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.