There are multiple artists named Erika:

1)  Erika (Erika De Bonis) is an Italian dance singer better known for her popular song I don't know. Erika's first releases were under the label of Rossano Prini A&R SPY records. The young Italian artist became famous when she released the song Relations. This track jumped to No. 1 on all Italian charts in the first half of 2001. Erika released some other tracks that became very popular in dance clubs: Right or Wrong and Ditto. She is the sister of Magic Box. Official Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/erikapop

2) Erika Sawajiri (沢尻エリカ) who goes by ERIKA for her music releases, is a Japanese actress, model, gravure idol and singer. She passed the Stardust audition in 1999 after graduating from elementary school. The following year she became part of the idol unit "ANGEL EYES" and began modelling for junior fashion magazines like CUTiE and nicola. In 2001 she won the Grand Prize for that year's Seikore and became a regular on the BS news program Harajuku Launchers.
In 2002 Erika began taking on more tasks as an actress and gravure idol. She was one of Fuji TV's Visual Queens for the year (along with Ichikawa Yui, Karina, and Yarita Ayano), and also had a part in the film Mondai no nai Watashitachi. She became a regular of the NTV music variety show THE YORU mo Hit Parade from April to late June, and shortly before leaving the program was on the CX News program Chou VIP Fortune no Tobira from mid-June to late August. In November she was on the CBC variety show Bijou Dokyuu and also on the TBS show B-1.
Erika continued her work into 2003, this time getting roles in PVs. She also began acting in various dramas, including a small role in the popular drama HOTMAN. In 2004 Erika continued to act in dramas, but it can be said she earned the most attention in 2005 for her portrayal of Ikeuchi Aya in the drama 1 Litre no Namida, a young girl with a degenerating brain disease that affects one's motor skills. It was also in 2005 that she starred in the film PACCHIGI!.
2006 proved to be yet another busy year for Erika, as she starred in two films and the drama adaptation of Taiyou No Uta. She also released a single in her role as Kaoru Amane for the drama entitled タイヨウのうた (Taiyou No Uta), of which rocker Shiratori Maika (白鳥マイカ) penned the lyrics for. The single became the highest selling female single of 2006, selling over 480,000 copies.
In 2007, Sawajiri re-debuted in the music scene with the single FREE in July (under the stage name ERIKA).

3) Erika is a Swedish singer, with the hits "Together We're Lost", "Hurting So Bad" and "In The Arms Of A Stranger". She had a big success between 1990 and 1992.

4) Erika Heynatz is an Australian model, actress, singer and television personality. On 15 April 2008, Heynatz performed a cover of the Rosi Golan song 'Slide' on It Takes Two and impressed the critics with the performance. She is currently in a recording contract with EMI and recently released her debut single and debut album which contains her singles 'Kingdom' and 'Bullet'.

5) Erika (Erika Sherman) is a Detroit-based artist. Erika dreams on the cellular level, or perhaps of transdimensional intelligences moving through strange patterns on celestial objects, working towards a mysterious goal. Her connection to the dreamworld becomes concrete in her approach to music, simultaneously so solid and yet so ethereal. Erika still finds time to accomplish many things in her waking hours, such as being a member of Ectomorph, co-conspirator of Detroit's Interdimensional Transmissions record label, DJing with vinyl, making music with her pet machines, and running http://erika.net - a freeform streaming radio station. Erika.net celebrates its 14th year this year, being one of the very first iTunes presets. From 1993 through 1999, Erika was very involved in WCBN in Ann Arbor, as a freeform and jazz DJ, and Program Director.
The daughter of a famed scientist and already running a well known BBS from her bedroom by the time she was 13, Erika is no stranger to expressing her ideas through technology. In 1997 she was handed a TR-606 and asked to join Ectomorph, and has since become an electronic musician of the highest order, focusing on analog synthesis, with live hardware sequencing that allows transformation over time and a deep depth of tone. The release of her debut solo double album Hexagon Cloud is due imminently on IT.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Erika">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.