Erk Tha Jerk is not your every day, ordinary rap artist. In an era where the majority of artists are all sounding the same, looking the same, and doing the same things, Erk stands out as a real one of a kind artist. At first glance, you would not assume that Erk was a rapper/producer/songwriter, but with his trademark glasses, wit, and laid back persona, he brings something that your average music listener can embrace and relate to. He explains, "Being myself is a must. That's the kind of music I make. Real sh*t. I don't feel the same everyday. Some days I'm on my get money sh*t, then the next I'm on my chill at home sh*t. I just make sure everybody can relate."

Erk found that finding credible production to accompany his lyrics would not be an easy task, which led him to start teaching himself the art of making beats. After some time, Erk's production talents had become quite formidable, and he produced all of his own work, and other artists began seeking him out to produce their work as well.

Even though his status as a producer was growing, his heart has always been in his raps. In late 2007, he dropped "The Hood Nerd" mixtape, which created some buzz around him as an artist, and got the streets talking. The song "Don't Need Em" became a favorite of DJ's and listeners, and has been getting significant plays on 106.1 KMEL. In order to capitalize off the building buzz, Erk released "The Hood Nerd EP" exclusively on iTunes featuring the hit song "Don't Need Em", which is a precursor to an upcoming album, which is in the making. In June 2008, Erk released "Im So Dumb" which is a witty, comedic song satirizing the "Hyphy Movement", and effectively pronouncing it dead. The song has been receiving praise from all over the region for its blunt honesty, and has been considered a long overdue message by many of the most powerful figures and artists in the local scene. 

In 2009, Erk collaborated with Bay Area Legend Too $hort on the single "Plane In The Air". Also in 2009, Erk struck gold by dropping his HIT Single "Right Here" which quickly shot to the number 1 spot on 106KMEL's playlist. "Right Here" became one of the biggest records for the Bay Area from a Bay Area Artist the region has seen in years, further establishing his ability to make hit songs. Recently charting on Billboards top 100 and recognized by MTV as having a "Regional Hit."

His lyrical talents and vibrant personality are evident in the song, and has every one talking about Erk Tha Jerk. You can expect Erk to do what he does best, "Make hit music for real people."

Radio: Erk is currently a certified Clear Channel "Artist To Watch" and has his profile posted on 50 radio stations' websites from all around the country, including KMEL, KISS, Power 105, and more. http://iheartradio.com/new2/featured/f/3020 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Erk+Tha+Jerk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.