There are several bands with the name "Eroded" on Last.fm.

[1] Death metal act from Okayama, Japan, formed in 1991. Eroded released a demo tape a year later. In 1994, their first and final full-length studio album, named "IN", was released on Howling Bull records. The vocalist would later form grindcore act 324. Eroded is currently disbanded.

[2] Death metal act from Italy. Eroded was born in November 2003 under the name "Forgotten Creed". The band was formed by Giulio (Bass),Nicola (Drums-Mortuary Drape & Enthroning Silence guitarist too) and Enrico (Vocals & guitar). After three months Giacomo joined us as lead guitarist. In September 2004 we played our first live show and in October (2004) was recorded our first selfproducted demo. 

In January 2005 Giacomo left the band and Luca (Our current lead guitarist) joined us.The band changed its name in Eroded, and the music slowly turned to old school death metal, our main musical influence ever, so in September 2005 Enrico left the band (Music divergences) and Kalyos first (Vocals) & Lorenz S. (Guitar) then, joined the band. In may 2006 we recorded 5 tracks of pure, nihilistic, old skull death metal for our first demo, titled "BANNER OF THE UNREST EXILE" that was self produced in few copies on tape; "Banner..." captured the interest from various death metal dedicated labels. In may 2007, the recording session for our second opus "Test the grace infliction" were completed, 4 new tunes of ancient DEATH METAL as it must sound! "Test the grace infliction" will be released on tape through Dwellers of the Thresolds, a small underground label from north Italy totally dedicated to true death & black metal! A rerelease of both demos "Banner of the unrest exile" & "Test the grace infliction" CD is planned for the end of summer on the cult death metal label Konqueror records! 

Prepare to be consigned into oblivion!

MEMBERS:
Kalyos (Vocals) 
Luca (Guitar) 
Lorenz S. (Guitar) 
Giulio (Bass) 
Nicola (Drums)

DISCOGRAPHY:
Banner of the Unrest Exile - Demo, 2006
Test The Grace Infliction - Demo, 2007 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eroded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.