There are five bands called ERODE:

1. Alexander Dietz's idm/industrial/ambient project
2. A melodic street punk from Como, Italy
3. A Danish grindcore band
4. A hardcore band from Tacoma, Washington
5. A Metal band from North Central Florida, U.S.A.

1. Originating as guitarist for the popular German metal band Heaven Shall Burn, Alexander Dietz now protrudes from the opposite side of the music continuum to bring Tympanik Audio listeners his debut electronic album Horizon under his pseudonym Erode. As his band Heaven Shall Burns conquers the German music charts with their hit album Invictus in 2010, as well as the formation of his new studio company Chemical Burn, Alexander turns inward and forward to reflect on his life experiences and influences to arrive at his own personal electronic music entity aptly named Erode.

Contrasting from one end of the music spectrum to the other, Alexander creates a vast and truly massive collection of electronic works with respectful nods to such artists as Beefcake, Access To Arasaka, and Gridlock. Here is the epicenter of Dietz’s vast inspirations, morphing into many forms, with a frayed tether of influences whipping and pulsing with stark realization.

With massive washes of ambiance as a backdrop, Erode injects immense, complex beatwork and memorable, seizing melodies into every orifice of Horizon. Fluid throughout, each piece of Horizon virtually sings with substance, seducing every delicate layer of sound into a natural state of bliss. A dark, dreamy, yet beat-driven collection of music that ebbs and flows naturally as a heavy tide, crashing against a stone wall on a deserted beach at night.

2. First one were melodic street punk from Como, Italy. After the recordings of two singles, 'Orgoglio Proletario' and 'Al Volga non si arriva' they released their first CD: 'Tempo che non ritorna'. They played some gigs and than they split up. The CD was out when they finished their experience. After that Cesare, bass player and voice, has played in 'Oltrecortina'. They reformed in 2004 for the re-release of the record and a serie of gigs all around Italy and then went back to hiatus again.

3. Danish grindcore band with sludge, doom and trash influences. Played with a lot of bands amongst others Asshole Parade, Fuck the Facts, Dead Infection and many more. New material should be out soon. 

4. A hardcore band from Tacoma, Washington signed to Wolfpack Records.  Featuring members of Cowardice and Vessels.  Fusing traditional hardcore fury with metallic riffs and hairnadoes Erode has been working non-stop for the past year to create a sound and groove all their own.

5. Metal band from North Central Florida, U.S.A. first formed in 1998 by Dave Cozine (Vocals & Guitar) & has played all over Florida since 2001. In 2005 ERODE changed their lineup & sound then hit the Florida Metal Scene hard playing many of the top metal venues & shared the stage with many great bands. In 2007 they released their 4 song debut E.P. recorded at Helton Studio in Ocala, Fl. In 2008 the lineup changed again adding Rick Cotshott (Bass) & Jeff Johns (Drums). The sound of the band changed as well becoming more intense & powerful then before. Current lineup: Dave Cozine - Vocal & guitar / Rick Cotshott - Bass & vocals / Charles Bulock - Drums... www.erodemetal.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Erode">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.