Ah yes, the infamous break up announcement. Well foilks, after three solid years, Eroica has decided to call it quits. Whoever thought that a rehearsal space/closet in our music building would harbor such incredible times for a few years to come? Certainly not us. Thank you for anyone that has supported us in any way shape or form, you know who you are.  Thank you for any band that has helped us out with a show or on tour, to anyone who bought a record, and most importantly, to our friends and family who continually supported us through thick and thin. We had a blast, and now it is time to move on to other things. 

BenG is currently playing with Irepress, so please go listen to them if you have not done so already, as they are onto some big things in the next year and they are absolutely incredible. BenH is booking and promoting shows in the Boston area under the name Extinguish and is managing another instrumental band called Henry Gale, as well as booking and tour managing regional tours for local bands. Zivi is still in school full-time and involved with Tastemakers, Northeastern's music magazine, as well as working on his own musical endeavors.

As a going away wish, we would like to offer up Hisen the Architect to all you lovely people for a pay-by-donation basis. You can send us however much you please (3 dollar minimum please, as that is the cost of shipping!), and we will mail you a physical copy of the record. We don't have too many left, so we encourage you to send over a few bucks and grab a copy before they are all out of print! Forever! The PayPal email is extinguishboston@gmail.com. Please include your address in the notes section. If you do not use PayPal, please send us a message and we will arrange something!

Thank you from the bottom of our hearts.

<3 Eroica

WWW.MYSPACE.COM/EROICAMUSIC <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eroica">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.