Band Info

Style: Symphonic Grindcore, Atmospheric Death 
Location: Phoenix
Current Status: Active 

Members:

Delk Vader - Vocals
SiN MDK - Guitars
Voltus X - Bass
Alloy Koitus - Keyboards and Sampling
Droxxx - Drums 

Biography (by the band):

The Perverted Evolution Of Pollution

Repeatedly betrayed, beaten, burned, and destroyed - the elegant Queen Of Whores dumps another soul among the slime and rotted flesh in a misfits graveyard to be forgotten.

Among the vast lifeless waist of humanity, something stirs in the putrid decay, exhaling with icy breath.

As the frigid blood streams beneath scorched flesh to a blackened heart, a transformation festers within something left for dead.

Emerging through a damp, warm fog; something pale, cold, and emotionless is forced to the surface. Apathy with a tortured past, its purpose becomes crystal clear: to inflict pain and suffering upon the female subspecies with a rapists mentality.

The thrill seeker only exists to indulge in the perverted, bruising pleasures of the flesh and meat.

EROTICIDE is the purified malevolence that is the perverted evolution of pollution that taints the pure and impure alike.

It's just a baneful existence consumed by pornography and destruction that is fueled by the hatred of the female venom.

EROT-I-SIDE
Eroticism - Homicide - Suicide

1. Sexually Terminated
2. A Violent Sexual Act Usually Resulting In Death
3. To Gain Mental And Sexual Pleasure From fornicating Pain And Torment Inflicted on Others 

Discography

Dawn of Obscenity EP (2004)
1. Rotten Inside
2. Dormant Hate
3. Masturbate Me

Dawn of Obscenity (full length, 2004)
1. Intro D.O.O.
2. American Pervert
3. Rotten Inside
4. Anyone But U
5. Prayers For A Dead Emotion
6. Dormant Hate
7. Deteriorate
8. Cyanide Orgasm
9. Masturbate Me
10. Cerebral Bore
11. Erection Dissection
12. The Scorching 

Glutton For Punishment  Demo, 1993
Demo 96 Demo, 1996
Comatose Lover Demo, 1998 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eroticide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.