There are two artists by this name: 1) the singer of Hot Chocolate  2) A Jamaican recording engineer 

Errol Brown Member of the British Empire (born November 12, 1943, Kingston, Jamaica - May 6th 2015) is the singer, songwriter, and frontman of the successful British band, Hot Chocolate. Amongst their biggest chart hits were "You Sexy Thing" and "Brother Louie".

Brown went solo in the eighties, and achieved success in the clubs with his 1987 single and twelve inch, "Body Rockin'", produced by Richard James Burgess.

The 1990s saw Brown slip into the background. It was the use of the Hot Chocolate single, "You Sexy Thing" in the 1997 movie, "The Full Monty", that brought Brown out of retirement.

In 2003 Brown was appointed as an MBE for services to popular music. 2004 saw him presented with an Ivor Novello Award for outstanding contributions to British music. Errol now lives in The Bahamas, with his wife Ginette (formerly Marie).

---

Errol Brown is the nephew of the late Duke Reid, the pioneer of Treasure Isle recording studio. Educated at Kingston Technical High School, where he did radio and television, Brown was trained as an audio engineer at Treasure Isle studios by Byown Smith and Duke Reid.

Brown recorded artist such as: Alton Ellis, The Paragaons, The Sensations, Marcia Griffith, Judy Mowatt, Peter Tosh, U-Roy, Gregory Isaacs, Culture and many more. Brown left Treasure Isle in 1979, where he joins Bob Marley & The Wailers at Tuff Gong Studios. He recorded and mixed albums with Bob Marley & The Wailers, Rita Marley, Burning Spear and Third World.

Brown had been with Ziggy Marley and The Melody Makers from the time they started as kids. He also did live shows with Bob Marley & The Wailers, Rita Marley and with Ziggy Marley & The Melody Makers in the studios and on the road until 2000. In 2001 and 2002, he was Shaggy's live sound engineer. In 2003, he engineered Ziggy Marley's first solo tour. He also was in charge of the sound at the Roots, Rock, Reggae Festival in 2004 & 2006 and as of 2007, is on world tour with Ziggy Marley. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Errol+Brown">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.