Eskaton: 
1. French progressive rock / avant-garde (Zeuhl) band created in 1970.

Formed in 1970, the ESKATON KOMMANDKESTRA continued the Zeuhl tradition spearheaded by Christian Vander's MAGMA. In an move towards accessibility they discard the Kobaian lyrics, opting instead for their native French. In 1974 original members Xavier de Raymond (Fender piano), Gerard Konig (drums), Marc Rosenberg (bass guitar), and Alain Blesing (guitar) are joined by Paule Kleynnaert (vocals), Amara Tahir (vocals), Eris Guillaume (keyboards), and Andre Bernardi (guitar) becoming simply ESKATON.

1979 saw the release of their first single "Musique Post Atomique", and the recording of their first album "4 Visions" (which would remain unreleased until 1981). Personnell changes (Alain Blessing, Eric Guillaume and Xavier de Raymond out, Gilles Rozenberg and MALICORNE's violinist Patrick Lemercier in) resulted in shorter songs, tighter arrangements and their next release, 1980's "Ardeur". In 1983 after the addition of synthesizers into their arrangements, and a move away from their more traditional Zeuhl sound, ESKATON recorded their last release "Fiction". In 1984 Gilles Rozenberg left the group, and the remaining members recorded their last album "I Care", which was never released.

Now 20 years later, ESKATON remains one of Zeuhl's brightest moments, and their album "4 Visions" (released on CD in 1995 through Sweeden's Ad Perpetuam Memoriam label) is a masterpiece of the entire genre.
2. Polish Death Metal band. 

ad1. The aim of the band was to play similar music to Magma but with a different approach to the voices. 

The original formation consisted of four musicians: Xavier de Raymond (piano), Gérard Konig (drums), Marc Rozenberg (bass) and Alain Blésing (guitar). During 1973, a second guitarist (Bernard Bernardi), a synth player (Eris Guillaume) and two female singers (Paule Kleynnaert and Amara Tahir) joined the band.

The band released four albums in France before finally splitting up in 1985 with a last, unreleased, album called Icare.

--------------------

ad2. Polish Death Metal band formed in 1999 in Rzeszów. They can be found at http://www.eskaton.prv.pl/  where some of their music is available in the 'Media' label (->'Muzyka') <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eskaton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.