ESOCTRILIHUM is Asthâghul - all instruments and vocals (France)

Completely enshrouded in mystery, France's ESOCTRILIHUM debuted in 2017 with the promising “Mystic Echo From A Funeral Dimension”, the first stone of a titanic altar erected in the name of dark and majestic black/death metal. One year later, sole member Asthâghul returns from the shadows of his voluntary isolation to complete his unholy monument, and a new, more powerful ritual of cosmic death worship can commence.

“Pandaemorthium (Forbidden Formulas To Awaken The Blind Sovereigns Of Nothingness)” is the kind of mature and imaginative work that everybody was expecting from the band, a monstrous gate opened on nihilistic universes of unfathomable void. Instead of rehashing over-abused occult concepts, ESOCTRILIHUM create their own frightful pantheon and fictional dimension by mixing a biblical tone with evident influences from H.P. Lovecraft's evil cosmogony. Each song is a wound bleeding out mysticism, horror and madness; each riff, an invocation to ancient races and forgotten blind deities of chaos from higher planes of nonexistence, a plea for them to penetrate our dimension and devour us all.

“Pandaemorthium” is as ambitious in its conceptual scope as it is apocalyptic in atmospheres and sonic approach. Often bordering on savage death metal and dark psychedelia, Asthâghul's cyclopean guitar riffs and mystical melodies constantly entwine and concur to the album's grandeur, while deep growls and brutal rhythm patterns assault the senses and ruthlessly crumble the walls of reality around us, revealing immeasurable depths of utter blackness. And with it, the true purpose of our lives: to serve and feed the Blind Sovereigns of Nothingness.
To accompany ESOCTRILIHUM's arcane visions, Alex Shadrin at Nether Temple Design has provided some of his most inspired and diabolical paintings to date, a perfect match to the unspeakable horrors of “Pandaemorthium”. 

A few months after the release of “Pandaemorthium”, ESOCTRILIHUM's celebrated sophomore album, French musician Asthâghul summons his creature back from the abominable realms of chaos it inhabits, to deliver a new chapter in his personal odyssey into fear and madness.
If the previous album opened 2018 in the name of the most majestic Lovecraftian extreme metal, “Inhüma” ends the year with an even more violent trip of hallucinatory music, a mind-bending vertigo of mystical black death metal of the heaviest kind, filtered through visionary and apocalyptic psychedelia. Once again, ESOCTRILIHUM works as a bridge to unparalleled dimensions of horror, terrifying mental planes where monstrous deities dominate over abstruse worlds in ruin, and where humanity is subjugated and enslaved.

Musically, “Inhüma” is a new and bold step forward in ESOCTRILIHUM's fast growth. More conscious of his capabilities, sole member Asthâghul has even successfully integrated a real violin within the band's typical paraphernalia of guitars, bass, drums and synths. The songwriting is compact and mature, equally brutal and reflective, and each track is a hymn to cosmic death, a flux of vivid nightmares from the deranged minds of ancient gods dying, with screams and growls augmenting the insane aura of Asthâghul's compositions.

Arcane and indecipherable, ESOCTRILIHUM's “Inhüma” offers intricate and intoxicating geometries of pain, beauty, mysticism and violence that find a perfect counterpart in Jef Whitehead's amazing cover painting. 

Releases

Pandaemorthium (Forbidden Formulas To Awaken The Blind Sovereigns Of Nothingness) released February 23, 2018

Inhüma released October 19, 2018

The above extracts are taken from the Bandcamp pages: https://i-voidhangerrecords.bandcamp.com/album/pandaemorthium-forbidden-formulas-to-awaken-the-blind-sovereigns-of-nothingness & https://i-voidhangerrecords.bandcamp.com/album/inhu-ma
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Esoctrilihum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.