Max Kane - Vocals, Guitar
Shawn "Cheddarr" Arends - Bass
Alex Reid - Drums

Fast, melodic, brutal, and powerful, Esoteric Doctrine is the common property of mankind.
Forming in 2006 as a duo, Max Kane and Aaron Mangoff sought out musicians who could replicate the aggressive sounds they wanted to create. The goal was to express an entirely different feel under the same context and ideas of creative and heavy music.
In early 2007 Aaron met percussionist Alex Reid. Luckily Aaron over heard Alex tapping out rhythmic patterns and rudiments on basically everything. The two began intuitively discussing music and decided to set up a jam session. Max, Aaron, and Alex would sure enough schedule a second jam that would follow into a rehearsal. Soon the three had enough material to set goals, originally forming as Reign on Canada day 07.
With the help of good friend, fellow musician and former bassist Kyle Cotter, the band set out to record a debut album. A 6-song EP entitled "Celestial Surroundings of Aerial Endings." Officially released June 25th 2009. Shortly after the completion of the album Kyle was overwhelmed with personal responsibilities, and couldn't keep up with the dedication required of him. Kyle parted with the band to pursue other interests
The band underwent serious thought of change. Not only of just a member, but a change of name as well. For they found "Reign" had already been taken under many different contexts. For a new bassist, the band found Shawn "Cheddarr" Arends. Shawn, with no trouble quickly learned all previous pieces while interpreting his own ideas to the low end creating depth in every note. Finalizing with the finishing touch under the new name of Esoteric Doctrine.
Today Esoteric Doctrine will continue to grow their name and presence in the music world, as they will always do so. Their determination to spread their interpretation reality through creation will never end.

In the beginning of 2011, Aaron Mangoff parted ways with Esoteric Doctrine to focus on his solo work. This was a sad, sad, day for Esoteric Doctrine, but the band continues to play as a three-piece and is currently in the studio working on their second album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Esoteric+Doctrine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.