There are two artists with the name 'Estertor'. 
1.- Estertor is a Thrash Metal band formed in early 2016 with different musicians from the local Barcelona scene (Ered, Falç, Critical, Onirophagus, Suicidal Brain)  with the common bond of playing Thrash Metal fusing both EU and US influences with material from horror movies and books. Edu: vocals, Shogoth: Bass, Des: Guitar, Oscar: Guitar, Enrique: Drums.

2.- Estertor, melodic death metal band with influences of doom metal and heavy metal,born in Cochabamba - Bolivia at the end of 1996; beginning with it musical evolution with the original members: Gustavo Mendoza (bass), Pablo Mendoza (drums/vocal), Marcelo Soto (guitar), identified with its roots and influences, continuing the lines of the heavy/thrash, with those that saw the lights and the beginnings in the world of Metal. Being presented along the first years, in several underground concerts, gained recognition of the presented local scene with some compositions, in the heavy-based way and with progressive touches. Always trying to innovate and to grow so much melodic as technically, it is that one observes a small turn in the musical idea and the tendencies of the band, to a style where they feel comfortable, to express what they think and they feel, this change is given for principles of 1998, where they are already played in many concerts, they show of what would be the first official compositions of ESTERTOR, framed in the vein that up to now continue working: "melodic death/doom/heavy". It is as well as they consolidates the music of ESTERTOR receiving laudatory comments of the whole scene. It is in this period 1999 / 2000 that ESTERTOR participates in numerous concerts with international bands as Britannia (arg), Neurosis Inc. (col.), and it is band selected to participate as support band of Rotting Christ (Gre), a concert that at the end for other people's problems is suspended. They also participates in the well-known Festival of Bands of Metal at National level METALFEST, showing new songs with an eye toward recording a production that is good to promote and to help to the growth of the local scene, and to be able to expand the knowledge in the exterior of the band and of the Bolivian movement. In the year 2000, ESTERTOR participates in another festival, and obtains the 1st place, being this the indicator that it was time of presenting a production, the one that finally is captured in the release of the 1st demo called "Episodes of the Shadows" containing in good sound, and good presentation, 7 compositions, besides 2 takings live extra, covers of bands that influenced ESTERTOR since this evolutionary career began in the world of the metal. The whole production, artistic design, recording, mixes was made in a completely independent way, meaning a great effort for the members of ESTERTOR. The presentation of the demo was an entire success, and a great answer of the people, attending near 600 people. Due to a personal decision, Gustavo, leaves the band, hole that is filled by Rommel that takes the bajo, and Arturo is included, in the 2nd guitar, being this formation the current one and the solid so far. It is so the edition of the first ones 500 we give, it was drained in an encouraging period of 5 months along south america and regions of Europe. In January of the 2001, ESTERTOR is invited for the first time to cross the frontiers of its country and they exposes their music in the Peruvian south, being this a goal and satisfaction for the band. With great surprise for people's welcome, ESTERTOR carries out its first presentation outside of their city, the general support really big and good comments. It was at this time in the one that the presence of ESTERTOR in scenarios inside Bolivia, is not allowed to wait, and they give several concerts in cities like Santa Cruz, Oruro, La Paz, El Alto ,Sucre and Potosi. During this period ESTERTOR appears in many compilations at national level, Latin American (Peru, Ecuador, Argentina), with laudatory comments of the specialized press. For March 28th 2001, ESTERTOR is chosen as support band of the Swedish band HAMMERFALL for its Latin American tour in its presentation in Bolivia. Being the first time that an European band of metal plays in this country, this nomination demonstrated that ESTERTOR goes for good road, and that the carried out work is leaning and respected by a lot of people. For July 27th 2001, ESTERTOR is taken again into account, for supporting to the Argentinean band "Rata Blanca", in its tour for latinoamerica. The year 2002 would generate more big surprises for the band, being invited to a concert at Latin American level with bands of Brazil (tothen), Argentina (Avernal) and Peru (Mortem, Disinter, etc) in the city of Lima/Peru. Also playing in cities as El Alto, Juliaca and Arequipa(peru). Also as support band of Argentinean "horcas" in Santa Cruz, the fight of ESTERTOR was offering big satisfactions. The new CD "Between Silence and Light", appears in 2004 with 13 songs a great musical evolution, all the Production was independent, with the work of marzzelo and Moonlapse Label(own). The Artwork was also an original piece of work of the band, showing to great maturity inside the national scene. Due to this work, Estertor received excellent commentaries, for example being considered by many specialized reviews, one of best 20 discs of the year, at world-wide level, with very high qualifications in many revisions, putting the name of Bolivia Metal scene in many different places. Therefore, Estertor turns to Bolivia in the beginning of 2006, after a year of break by diverse reasons. Now the group is preparing the songs of which will be the next production, and even a great surprise!. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Estertor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.