There are several bands named Estigma.

1. [Featured] Roberto Reynoso (Estigma) was born the 18 of January of 1983. During his chilhood, he was influenced by electronic music. He dreamed about being a musician. His family was his main source of inspiration. He begun his career in electronic music at the age of 15 when he started participating in events, making sets with a high quality trance composed by his own productions. This productions are exceptionally good because of Estigma’s amazing ear at the time of creating new melodies. As time went by he improved his technique,experimenting with new sounds and interwaved styles. Trance-lover, a form that is characterized by progressive, melodic and uplifting sounds. His most important artistic influences are Tiësto,Armin Van Buuren, Ferry Corsten, Above & Beyond, Rank 1, Delerium, Matt Darey,among others. We can also include music of the eighties. In 2008, he was invited to participate in a radio show in "Anthem Fm” ->[http://wwww.trance.cl] called "Trancendental Sessions", which was done every Sunday at 21:00 pm Argentina time.Estigma’s great productions were aknowledged by the well-known Spanish Dj and producer Angel Ace/Serenade, who is part of the record company called “Onlyone Records”. This company proposed him to be part of the final remix of the track “The Fallen” (edited on may 12 of 2008). His high quality productions have taken him to work with great Trance exponents, such us Paul Millar and Pedro del Mar, and have the support of Djs like Armin Van Buuren, Ferry Corsten, Aly & Fila, DJ Shah, Tom Colontonio, Manuel Le Saux, Daniel Kandi, Sean Tyas, Ruben De Ronde, Activa, M.I.K.E, Marcos, Mr. Pit, Menno De Jong, Matt Darey, Sebastian Brandt, Ronald Van Gelderen, Enrnesto & Bastian, Fast Distance, Ferry Tale, Xgenic, Andrew Visior, Adam Nickey, Mark Eteson, Tilmann Uhrmacher, Re-Ward, Tenthu, Illya Soloviev, Bobina, Angel Ace, Pedro Del Mar, Dan Reitard, Maza & Martinelli, Heatbeat, Paul Miller, Mike Wind, Suzie Solar and others. In the near future, Estigma promises to delight us with more of his productions and remixes that will be sponsored by important record companies.He is always open to new changes, proposals and invitations to new events. 

2.-   Estigma (Concepción -Chile)    Progressive/Fusion. Hailing from Concepción, Chilean ensemble ESTIGMA have been one of the most active prog bands in their country since their inception in the early 2000s. The band's sound is definitely ballsy and powerful, which in no small degree is due to the dual guitars, but it is also to be considered the robust scheme provided by the rhythm section. Magically enough, the flute can easily find its way to make its melodic lines and flourishes get noticed. ESTIGMA's musical ideology is based on the reconstruction of Chilean folk textures and rhythms in a context of progressive rock's aggressive side. Their gusto for conceptually driven music has led them to release two concept albums so far: "Rañi Killen" in 2006 and "Retrato de un Sueño" in 2008. Both releases have gained them critical praise as well as a reasonable expansion of their cult following. Between the first and second album there have been important variations in the band's line-up, but they have not affected the natural evolution of ESTIGMA's essential style.

3.Estigma (Arg)Thrash Metal
4.Estigma (Per)       Thrash/Death Metal
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Estigma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.