Several bands have named themselves Et Cetera. There's one from Germany (also found under Et Cetera (De)), one from Canada (see Et Cetera (Ca)), and others...

Et Cetera (Slovakia) 
M. - All instruments, vocals
One man band project with atmospheric and depressive emotions !
https://etc-band.bandcamp.com/releases

ET CETERA (CA) biography
Classic French-Canadian progressive band that will give any GENTLE GIANT fan fits. The presence of a female vocalist (beautiful voice) combined with rather romantic symphonic prog also reminds me of the more quiet side of the French band SANDROSE or the Italian APOTEOSI. A great album!!!

ET CETERA (DE): 70's band for German jazz keyboardist Wolfgang Dauner. Also recorded as Wolfgang Dauners Et Cetera.

ET CETERA (USA): Et Cetera (ETC), born Anthony Urrabazo on April 18th, 1987 in Gainesville, Florida. He then moved to Madison, Florida with his mother shortly after and was introduced to rap and the culture at a young age. He began listening to artists such as DMX, 2Pac, Kid Rock, Master P, and other artists that were popular at that time. He wrote his first rap when he was ten years old and fellow classmates liked it. He began to write more often and at the time, he only wrote long verses that he would add on to and memorize.

He spent a lot of his time as a beat boxer for rap cyphers and freestyle battles occasionally jumping in to drop a few lines. By the time he reached 9th grade just starting High School in Madison, he began to rap more and slowly broke out of his shell. He then moved to Valdosta, Georgia with his mother and two siblings. Et Cetera would spend most of his time writing in his rap notebook and occasionally showing it to his friends. By 2002, he switched schools and really became known for rapping. He would go to school and battle schoolmates and he would go to work and battle co-workers and even his boss. ETC battled various rappers and had beef with some too which gained him some street credit as a rapper.

In 2003, at the age of 16, ETC called into the local radio station, WLYX 102.7 for a chance to win free tickets to "Apollo Night 2003", being that you were caller number 7. When he called, he was suprised to find out he was caller number seven and they had asked him to rap for them. He spat a freestyle which the radio DJs gave him an "A" for effort and allowed Et Cetera to claim his prize. During the same year, the radio station was promoting a star search known as "South Georgia Idol" where he freestyled and out of 60 other contestants, was asked to return. Due to his job and a move to Toledo, Ohio, he didn't have the chance to compete.

He moved to Ohio to stay with his aunt and uncle at the age of 17. While in Toledo, he attended Springfield High School where he was eagar to display his talent. He quickly found friends and joined in on lunchroom cyphers and battles. He would write short lyrics and poems for his school projects which his teachers were pleased with and suggested that he joined the school's upcoming talent show. Seeing this as a chance to be more well-known and gain some street credit in Toledo, he performed in the school's talent show on May 10th, 2005. He performed a rap in front of an average sized crowd, although he did not win, he felt that he had accomplished something in that he performed in front of his first live audience.

During the same year, in the same school, he became close friends with a rapper then known as B. Rees. In November, ETC, B. Rees, J. White, Pimp D-Tay, and B To Da A went to S.O.R. Studios to record their first CD "Demo 11/11". After that, ETC and Yung Haze bothe continued to rap together and a month later went to Wright Tyme Studio where they recorded tracks for their second CD "Back 2 Da Booth Vol. 1".

Shortly after, he was forced to move back to Georgia where he compiled tracks from the first two albums onto a promo album titled "Tha Classics". He then teamed up with fellow rappers Fatal D and Lil' Explicit. Although it was short lived, they started a group known as "Crisis Kings" and recorded several mixtape singles. ETC has continued to write lyrics for his album "Back 2 Da Booth: Vol. 2".

In June of 2007, Et Cetera moved to San Antonio, Texas where he is continuing to promote himself and his album. He was expected to release "Back 2 Da Booth: Vol. 2" during late 2007 - early 2008, but an unexpected turn set it to the side. On October 19th, 2007, Et Cetera was offered a contract to Blood Shot Records and was signed as an emcee. ETC is currently working on his second BSR album after releasing his debut album, "Lost N Unfound", in December 2007. The new album, titled "Free, White, and 21", will feature Blood Shot Records artists as well as other guest appearances. He is the only BSR artist so far, to live outside of Minnesota. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Et+Cetera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.