Etched in Stone was formed in the Winter of 2006 with the original lineup of Brandon, Brian, Mike and Nate. By the Spring of 2007 the band had completed their initial writing process with 7 songs making the cut, allowing the band to hit the local live circuit. After playing several shows in and around their local area, the band went back into writing mode and recorded their self titled debut. The album, which contained 10 tracks, was self released in the Summer of 2007. Etched in Stone returned to the stage later that year, with three brand new tracks added to their set list. In the Spring of 2008, Etched in Stone took a break from the live circuit and began the writing process for the follow up to their self titled debut. Four tracks were written and the recording process commenced. During the recording process, fellow founding members Nate and Brandon exited the group. While the parting was amicable on both sides, the loss of key members brought the recording process to a stand still. After holding auditions for the vacant positions, Etched In Stone finally managed to recruit long time friends Adam on drums and Eric on guitar. With the lineup change fully compensated for, the band headed back into the studio to complete the recording process for their most recent EP, "Exit Wounds," which was released in early 2009. Currently the band is enjoying the fruits of a long labor on "The End Result" music video, filmed by Capital Bay Entertainment Studios in North Hollywood, CA.

The next endeavor is set for December 9th, 2009, when Etched in Stone is set to begin tracking their 11 track, full length album, "Emulate The Defiler" in Snake's (SKINLAB) studio in the Bay Area. Etched In Stone have since completed work on the new album and it is now available digitally via iTunes and Amazon.com. During the recording process, Adam had to part ways with the band due to personal issues. After holding lengthy auditions in order to fill the vacant position, the band finally settled on local skinsman Brandon Blewitt, who joined the band in early 2010.

With their debut album under their belts, big things are on the horizon for Etched In Stone. Keep an eye out for tons of upcoming announcements via the band's Myspace page at www.myspace.com/etchedinstone209 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Etched+in+Stone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.