FOREVER-

The Album

 
Stefania Ponzilacqua, this is the name back to ETERNAL TRAGEDY. Italian virtuoso guitar player now living in Florida, Stefy started to record and finish to write Eternal Tragedy first full length in the beginning of 2006, including in the tracks list the re-recorded Outside Of Mercy and Eternal Tragedy featured in Voice Of Instinct demo. Later on, she contacted Emilio Dattolo (Illogicist) to record the bass parts and Enrico Francescato (Soulpit) to record the brutal vocals. Forever, this is  the title of the album, is produced by Stefano Tappari (a.k.a. Frank Booth) guitar player for the horror band CADAVERIA and co-produced by Stefania.
The current line up for Eternal Tragedy is composed of Stefania Ponzilacqua on lead guitars/guitars, Nicolò Lagiannella on drums, Daniele Belotti on vokills, Silvio Gattullo on guitars and Cristo on bass.
Tracks List:

 
Prisoners 
Crime Of The Soul 
Outside Of Mercy 
Forever 
Life Expression 
Eternal Tragedy 
Like A Stone 
Dictator

 
VOICE OF INSTINCT - Demo


 
Eternal Tragedy, released their second demo entitled Voice Of Instinct in 2004. This demo features two songs - "Eternal Tragedy" and "Outside of Mercy". The guitarist, Stefy recorded all the guitars, vocal and bass tracks thanks to a sequenced metronome. In search of a stable line-up, she contacted drummer Iwan Hendrikx from Holland. Once their agreement was ready, Stefy went by bus to Holland with her project files. Within 10 days, the two players finished Iwan's drum tracks. At that point Iwan was pleased with the finished recording and  joined  the band as official member. Soon both Stefy and Iwan, went by their own and divided their path. Stefy decided that after Voice Of Instinct, she was going to release a full length album.  

 
THE FIRST DEMO


 
Eternal Tragedy recorded and released their first demo, entitled DEMO, in 2001. This demo features two songs - "Dreamworld" and "Murder of Souls" that are a kind of musical hybrid among death, trash, progressive and power metal with melodic vocal lines. Stefy had a provisional line up at that time that was featuring Stefy on guitars, her sister Valentina Ponzilacqua on the bass, Alex Patelli on drums and Andrea M. on vocals. The recordings were very troubled in fact Andrea didn't sing on Dreamworld, that was sang by Stefy, because couldn't perform it in the same way he performed Murder of Souls. This fact and other musical incomprehension, caused an immediate brake up of the line up. Stefy decided to turn all the melodic vocals that she would have written, into growling vocals, creating what is today Eternal Tragedy.
 
1999
 
The Italian band started under the name of Metal 'til Death. The line up was featuring only Stefy on guitars and her sister Valentina Ponzilacqua on bass. The music played at this time was a kind of epic metal, with a touch of thrash. Metal 'til Death never recorded anything. 
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternal+Tragedy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.