There are mutliple artists with this name:

1. Black Metal from israel, Formed in 1999.
http://www.myspace.com/eternalagonyisr

2. In 2000 John Weitjes, Daniel Dekker and Peter Wetzelaaer started out making music together. Soon John's brother Tom joined in and after some time Jean van Hees joined to do some vocals. This however, could not be called a band due to a lot of internal difficulties.

Then Jean, Peter and Tom quit the group in order to start a band called 'The Betrayed'. John and Daniel kept playing guitar though. The Betrayed started out playing some Metallica, but soon Jean came up with the idea to cover Iced Earth songs. Also The Betrayed started out experimenting on some own material. After a while a guitarist and drummer joined in for a short period. Because of difficulties between Tom and Peter, the two of them didn't want to work together anymore. This left Jean with a hard decision. He tried to play along with both Tom and Peter seperately. 

Peter formed a band 'Jacket of Steel', Jean didn't felt right in this group though. Tom decided to join up again with John and Daniel with Jean on vocals, this was in 2002. They had a difficult start, but after a while it went a lot more smoothly. Now they had a vocalist (Jean), a lead guitarist (Daniel), Rythm guitarist (John) and bass-player (Tom). They went on playing Metallica and Iced Earth, but soon felt the need to create own material. The first song created was Nightmare. Soon after this, John and Jean came up with a new name for the band, Eternal Agony.

At this point Eternal Agony only lacked a drummer. This changed in ay 2003 when they found a drummer suited for their style. Everyone welcomed aboard Zap as drummer, he had some experience with playing in a band (Stain of Mind and a few other unnamed bands). 

Now Eternal Agony made real progress in writing and covering songs. Soon they started out doing some gigs in their own region, starting in August 2003.

Because of their ambition to become a professional band, they started to be more serious. From that moment, it became more and more clear that Tom had other ideas about this. It resulted in many difficulties between Tom and the others. 
After a long peroid of internal stress for all members, it came to the point where everyone felt that this wasn't a good way to continue. Yet another fight followed and Tom stated that he didn't feel like staying in the band like this. The others felt the same way about Tom's position in the band and decided to go on without Tom.

Because the band had a gig planned very soon after this all happened, they had to find replacement as soon as possible. They approached Christian Severens (bass-player) of Covering Fire (a good Iron Maiden coverband they did quite some gigs with). Luckily Chris was willing to help Eternal Agony out and after a few weeks he even decided to stay in Eternal Agony!

Sadly enough, this period only lasted for a few months and Chris had to quit the band due to medical reasons. This was a heavy setback for Eternal Agony of course, since Chris fitted very well into the group. Again the band had to search for a new bassplayer. Luckily enough they found a young, but talented bass-player called Fabian Walther who decided to join the band.

At the end of 2005, Eternal Agony started to work on some new material. To obtain a more original and fuller sound in their music, the band decided to take in a third guitarist though: Gilles van Hoof, who had quite some experience in previous bands including 'Morning'. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternal+Agony">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.