The Eternal Sorrow appeared in 1994 middle, with Anderson and Luciano (guitars), Aldy (drums), Ana (keyboards) and Julio (vocals); proposing elaborate an aggressive Doom Metal. One month after the beginning Maurcio (bass) completes the first formation of the band.

In 1995 is launched the Demo-Tape "The Sadness' Elevation", with a Intro and two songs (Eternal Sorrow and Lonely Sufferance). 
This demo-tape opened the way for the Eternal Sorrow, being considered of excellent quality for the magazine Rock Brigade and the underground fanzines. In Portugal B>"The Sadness' Elevation" it gained the prize of better demo-tape foreigner of 1995, elected for the program Stage Dyving, from Aores. In the end of the same year Ana (keyboards) leaves the band and Julio assumes, also, the keyboards. In 1996 the band participates of the CD "The Winds of the New Millenium .. 2", by Demise Records, with the song Dreams of Reality. After that Aldy and Luciano leave the band, get in Adriano (drums) and Gustavo (guitar), consolidating a new line-up: Julio (vocals and keyboards), Maurcio (bass and vocals), Anderson (guitar), Gustavo (guitar) and Adriano (drums).

Between 1996 and 1997 Eternal Sorrow assigns a contract for two CDs with the Demise Records. In 1998 is launched the promo-demo "The Twilight of Life", which had an excellent repercussion between the medias. After that is launched the CD "The Way of Regret", that it had an excellent acceptance at the general underground. Between 1998 and 2000 theband concentrates in the spreading of "The Way of Regret" through shows. 
In the end of 2000 get started new compositions for a new CD. In August 2001 Eternal Sorrow initiates to record the CD "Legacy", with approximately 53 minutes length and a spotless "metal work". The works are finished in July of 2002, "Legacy" is released at May, 2003. Gustavo leaves the band at August of the same year. At October, Ricardo completes the actual Eternal Sorrow´s line-up.
Actually the Eternal Sorrow is looking for a label to release our third CD, that is being composed. Their contract with the Demise Records was for two CDs, they are recorded and released. They are talking with some labels at the moment. 

Discography: 
1995: 'The Sadness' Elevation' (Tape)
1999: 'The way of regret' (CD)
2003: 'Legacy' (CD)
www.eternalsorrow.com.br

http://www.myspace.com/eternalsorrowdoommetal <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternal+Sorrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.