Eternal was a London based 1990s R&B girl group that found fame in 1993 and went on to become one of the UK's most successful girl groups of all time, achieving both domestic and global success.
The group was made up of church-going sisters Easther and Vernie Bennett and school friends Kéllé Bryan and Louise Nurding (also known as Louise and Louise Redknapp), who both went to the famous Italia Conti Academy stage school.
They were the first girl group to have a million selling album in UK Chart History with 1994's "Always & Forever", and were named Best Group at 1993's Smash Hits Poll Winners Party. Following the success of this album, Louise left to pursue a solo career, and the group continued as a 3-piece.
The group's second album, "Power Of A Woman", was released in 1996 and spawned 4 Top Ten Hits. The same year they were asked to sing the theme for Disney's "The Hunchback of Notre Dame", "Someday". The song was used as the official theme for the film in all countries except the US where All 4 One took the honours.
Their 3rd album, "Before The Rain" was released in 1997 and spawned their first and only number one single "I Wanna Be The Only One" with BeBe Winans for which they also earned a MOBO award. The album also spawned the Top 5 hit "Angel Of Mine" which was recorded by Monica for the American market. 
Kelle Bryan quit the group for a short lived solo career in 1998 leaving just the Bennett sisters operating under the Eternal moniker. They released one further single as a duo, 1999's "Whatcha Gonna Do" which achieved only minor success and a critically-aclaimed but ultimately unsuccessful self-titled 4th album. They were dropped by EMI in 2000.
Eternal never managed to crack the US market, despite a Top 20 hit "Stay", however they have reached global sales in excess of 9 million units.

2) Eternal was a '70s inspired doom metal project of Dorset, UK's Jus Oborn which followed his stints in Lord of Putrefaction and Thy Grief Eternal in the early nineties. The group recorded one four track demo in the summer of '93 before Oborn recruited Tim Bagshaw and Mark Greening and formed the now legendary Electric Wizard. 

3) Eternal is a short-lived band on Sarah Records 1989 in Reading, England.  They released one single "Breathe" in 1990. Even though only 2000 copies of the single were pressed and the band only ever played one gig, they were credited to being heavily influencial to shoegaze bands to follow.  One last Eternal song, "Remember", was recorded by Christian Savill and other members of Slowdive during the Souvlaki recordings in 1992.  Sadly, it never saw release. ]Slowdive also went on to cover the song "Sleep" with Rachel Goswell on vocals, but it was never officially released. In 2013, Graveface Records released a four track EP including the three Eternal songs mentioned above:
http://graveface.bandcamp.com/album/eternal-breathe

Line-up:
Christian Savill (Slowdive) - guitar/vocals 
Stuart Wilkinson - bass guitar
Michael Warner - drums

Other members involved with recording and their only gig were:
Sean Hewson - guitar
Alan Bryden - cello
Darren Seymour - guitar/vocals

4) Mid-2003 saw the formation of Melbourne Gothic metal band, The Eternal. Mark Kelson, Chris Burton, both former members of renowned doom metal band, Cryptal Darkness, along with Chris Stevenson on keyboards started working together on The Eternal in 2003.
Paul Tipping (bass) and Ryan Buesnel (drums) rounded out the lineup. A promotional EP was completed in mid-2003 and was released to media and record labels. The response from the media was strong and the band eventually signed with Finland's Firebox Records.
Prior to the recording sessions of their first album, The Sombre Light of Isolation. Paul Tipping left the band and was replaced by James Hunt. The Sombre Light Of Isolation also features a guest appearance by Darren White of Anathema and The Blood Divine fame. Guitarist and long-time collaborator with Kelson, Chris Burton left the band shortly after the album's release in 2004. He was temporarily replaced by former Ne Plus Ultra guitarist Mat Castles before the group's tour of Europe and Hong Kong. Upon the band's return to Australia, drummer Ryan Buesnel left the band. Also in 2004, The Sombre Light of Isolation was voted as one of the Top 5 Australian heavy metal albums by listeners of Triple J's Full Metal Racket. Kelson was also temporarily bassist for fellow Melbourne band, Black Majesty.
In early 2005 it was announced that drummer Marty O'Shea and former Mortification guitarist Lincoln Bowen has joined the band. The five piece finished recording their second album, Sleep Of Reason, in May 2005 and was released once again by Firebox Records in late 2005. O'Shea left the band at the end of 2005 and was replaced by renowned Australian session drummer, Pete Marin, also of progressive rock band, Template.
2006 proved to be a good year for the relatively new band. In March 2006 The Eternal supported acclaimed Finnish rock group H.I.M. on the Australian leg of their Dark Light tour. A month later they once again toured the nation with legendary Swedish progressive metal band, Opeth.
On September 13 2006 it was announced that bassist James Hunt would leave The Eternal to pursue his career as an Agricultural Scientist.
After many months of relatively no news the band confirmed in January 2007 that guitarist Lincoln Bowen would be taking leave from the group as he awaits the birth of his second child. He was replaced by Terry Vainoras (InSomnius Dei/Earth(Aus)/Order Of Chaos). Drummer Marty O'Shea would rejoin the band following a one year absence.

5) Eternal is the name of a Gothic Metal Band from Colombia. Eternal was born in the beginning of 1995 like a Death Metal Band with Iván Darío Ríos(Guitar) and Jorge Andres Muñoz at the drums. For a long time Eternal was (a kind of) Demo/performed Band, used to play in small rock festivals in Colombia.
In October 2000 Eternal went into "ElPez" studio and recorded their first (CD) Album called "Gothic Dreams".
November 5th of 2001 Eternal was invited to share the stage with the well-know-band THERION.

6) There is no info about this band whatsoever. They released a song on the "Through the Haze" compilation 7", released on Yuletide records in 1994.

7) Eternal is a group formed in 2001. Two releases: "Satanic Templars of the Dark Age" (2005) and "The Berserks' Legions Defiance" (2009).

9) Eternal is a Thrash Metal band formed in 2004 in San José, Costa Rica.

11) Antony Antwan Ware or Eternal is a singer, dancer, model, and actor. Strongly compared to singers such as Trey Songz and Usher, he has released his debut album (Entitled “UNBOUND”) independently on July 23rd, 2013. Antony A. Ware (Known as Eternal) was born on August 25th in Waukegan, IL. Antony is one of six brothers and sisters, with only one of the siblings shared biologically by both his mother and father. Antony, although a shy child began singing, dancing, and acting in school plays and recitals from the time he first entered pre-school. Despite his shyness, he took part in these types of events throughout school, but was never really encouraged to pursue entertainment as a career. Antony's parents divorced when he was three years old, so he was highly encouraged to pursue a "stable" career. After initially putting entertainment on the back-burner, Antony was noticed by a talent/modeling scout within a local mall after the family moved to Atlanta, Georgia. During this time of working with the local agency, Antony did local modeling and entered many talent contests. While attending his sophomore year of college, he was signed to CMG Entertainment Group (a subsidy of ItsTimeChild Records) as a solo artist where he adopted the name Prince Antony. Antony also still continued to perform at college talent contests, winning most of them for either dancing or singing. While with CMG, Prince Antony recorded his first single "Ya'll Ain't Ready".
Due to alleged negligent management, Prince Antony decided to part ways with CMP Entertainment Group. He then successfully auditioned to join a male trio singing group called Adonis. The group was independently managed by Black Rock Star Entertainment. After only recording a few songs with the group (including the groups debut single "Temperature") friction began to erupt. This in addition to the manager being arrested for alleged drug possession charges caused the group to disband. This left Prince Antony once again unrepresented and back to square one with an entertainment career.
With so many set backs, Prince Antony had almost given up on seeking a career within entertainment. He continued to compete and perform in local Atlanta talent showcases. He also signed a modeling contract with Ultimate Model Management within the city of Atlanta. After performing with a dance company he joined called the Empire Dance Company, Prince Antony was introduced to Frank Taylor of Taylord Entertertainment. Mr Taylor then introduced Prince Antony to a local producer by the name of DC Da Composer of DREEM Entertainment. This relationship renewed Prince Antony's desire to attain a career within singing. He adopted a new name called Eternal and began work on a new solo EP called "Static". Collaborative efforts for this EP not only consisted of DREEM Entertainment, but also representation from an artist called J'Rell of Maybach Music. The first single completed for the EP (also called Static) was written by J'Rell and produced by DREEM Entertainment. The single began to circulate around Atlanta, Georgia. Eternal then shot a video for the single in order to further promote himself in the hopes of gaining attention to achieve a major music label signing. Although the relationship between Eternal and DREEM Entertainment soon dissolved, Eternal has independently released his debut solo album entitled “UNBOUND” on July 23rd, 2013.

12) Eternal Solo dungeon synth/ dark ambient project from Athens, GR. Est. 2021 https://eternal666.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.