There is more than one artist with the name Eternia.

1.“Canada’s Dopest Female MC” – Exclaim Magazine 
 
Hip Hop artist Eternia has graced the cover of Toronto’s “The Eyeopener”, Vancouver’s “Terminal City”, and Sydney Australia’s “Homebase”.  All three magazines had one thing in common: they saw in Eternia a fiery commitment to succeed and growing star potential.  If Eternia’s unrelenting drive and incomparable skill is any indication, it will not be long before the rest of the world scrambles for the coattails of this lyrical phenomenon. Meet Canada’s answer to: ‘Who’s Got Next?’ 
 
For twenty-five years Eternia has contributed to the positive musical vibrations around her. Born to parents who were extremely musically inclined, she began performing in church as a toddler, and continued throughout her teens. At age eight she was introduced to the culture that would captivate her for life: Hip Hop.  Eternia started reciting lyrics, and before long, she was scribing her own extraordinary material.  However, it was just a hobby until 1994, when she decided to take emceeing seriously; from local stages to radio stations - no microphone has been safe ever since. 
  
Eternia has tightened her skills in street ciphers, studio sessions, and live shows.  She’s rocked rhymes from crowded subway cars in the Bronx, to ciphers outside of the Nuyorican Poet's Cafe (Manhattan), to street corners in Philadelphia.  Eternia honed her stage presence at a variety of N.Y.C. venues including Wetlands, S.O.B.’s, Bowery Ballroom, and Baby Jupiter, which grew to performances across the U.S.A. in every major city/state mentionable.  In Canada, she’s rocked crowds and rhymed on campus radio stations from 
Halifax, N.S. all the way to Vancouver, B.C.  In 2003, Eternia extended her musical experience overseas, where Australia proved to be fruitful ground for her vivacious lyrical passion. 
 
Following a slew of successful singles, videos & feature releases including “Work it Out”, “Sorrow Song” (Universal/Maple), “Understand if I” (Battle Axe Records), & “Just the Way it Is” (Urbnet), and the Australian national chart-topper “Movin’” (Warner), Eternia released “Where I Been – The Collection” in spring 2005, a mix CD of Eternia’s past releases, exclusive drops, unreleased material, international collaborations, and fresh singles.  The Collection served to prepare the public for her Debut Full-Length Album, “It’s Called Life”, funded by FACTOR Canada and executive-produced by Eternia.  The highly anticipated album was released across Canada and in Australia this October, 2005. 
 
A graduate in Broadcast Journalism and Sociology from Ryerson University, Eternia’s work ethic and commitment to her craft is unparalleled in the urban music industry.  As an emcee, Eternia's focus is potent content, along with innovative lyricism, delivery and style.   
 
"I write life music. Sometimes I'm criticized for being too negative or too dark. I'm inspired by my family and personal relationships, and that stuff isn't always happy at times," she says. "It's amazing when you see your fans in the crowd react to lyrics, like 'That’s exactly how I was feeling!' That's why I make music, I want to affect people." 
 
Eternia is determined to eternally make music that excites, entertains, and evokes emotion in her listeners... “from local to the universe”.

Eternia Official Site


2.Gothic/Doom band from Kharkov, Ukraine
The band was created in 2010, mainly influenced by Draconian. Other influences are: Doom:VS, Tristania, Sirenia, Xandria, Delain.
http://www.myspace.com/eternia_band
http://www.reverbnation.com/eterniaband
http://vkontakte.ru/club24616502
http://www.youtube.com/user/EterniaOfficial?feature=mhum
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Eternia/168859386497489?sk=info

3. Costa Rican Power Metal Band
The band was created in early 2010's and has two LPs released. "Las noches sin Fin" in 2013, and "Somos de Fuego" in 2021
https://eterniacr.bandcamp.com/
https://www.facebook.com/eterniametal <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.