When the guitarists Torsten Fünfhaus and Mick Sebastian, bass player Jörg Hassel and drummer André Genuit met in the rehearsal room for the first time in 1997 to work together under the name Perfact Crime, the band could already look back on a large treasure chest of experience which was filled with legendary geman metal bands like Sweet Cheater, Secrecy, Exploder or Final Prophecy.

In autumn 1998 the line-up, now completed by singer Dirk Stühmer and keyboarder Björn Meyer, released their first demo, which received great reviews in such important magazines like the japanese Burrn.

Their first place in a local band contest and their second demo, "Crimetime", which they recorded in only six days, were enough to allow the popularity of Perfact Crime to make a step upwards climb and ensure sold - out live shows. A support slot for the US metal legends Breaker and being selected to open Rock Hard magazine's "Unerhört" sampler were the next highlights in the band's career. The number of gigs increased with a slot at the Rocktown - Open - Air and as support for US hardrockers Axe. All this resulted in a contract with TTS Media Music, who, in 2002, released the "Crimes Of Passion" CD. Shortly before the release, the band were forced for legal reasons to change the band name to Eternal Reign.

The reactions in the media were very positive. The german magazine Heavy, oder was!? even gave them the highest rating, way in front of long established bands such as Sentenced, Dokken, Iron Savior and Eidolon. With such an album in their luggage, it was no surprise to see them on the billing at the Headbangers - Open - Air, the Keep - It - True and the Building - A -Force festival. Even the lendary and critical underground magazine "Snakepit", gave the band extensive coverage.

Now established as one of the best underground metal acts in Germany, the band began recording their second album, "Forbidden Path", the title track of which had just been published on the Heavy, oder was!? compilation CD "Metal Crusade". Shortly after that Eternal Reign signed the deal with Limb Music Products. The album was released worldwide in February 2005.

Finally, Eternal Reign finished their work on the new album "The Dawn Of Reckoning" with Achim Köhler and happy to release it in summer 2010 on Pure Steel Records.

Member since October 02, 2006:

Vocals - Dirk Stühmer
Guitar - Michael Sebastian
Guitar - Torsten Fünfhaus
Bass - Jörg Hassel
Keyboards - Björn Meyer
Drums - Lennart Medebach. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternal+Reign">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.