There are eleven bands and one group by the name of Eternity. Argentina (2)  USA (2)  Spain (1)         Finland (1) Italy (1) Norway (1)  Greece (1)  Germany (1) Slovenia (1)


-----

Eternity (이터니티) is a South Korean AI project girl group under AiA and Pulse9 consisting of 11 members: Seoa, Sujin, Minji, Zaein, Hyejin, Dain, Chorong, Jiwoo, Yeoreum, Sarang and Yejin. They debuted on March 22, 2021 with the single I’m Real.
---------

Eternity(Deu) originally formed in 1994. Their lyrical themes include, but may not be limited to: death, destruction, mass-murder, and violence. They have released 2 known demos in 1995 and 1997, respectively; and 4 split EPs between 1997 and 2003. Their debut full-length album "...and the Gruesome returns with every Night" was released in August of 2004 (W.T.C. Productions); a vinyl version was released by Blut & Eisen Prod. 

In October of 2004, Eternity(Germany) were featured on a 7", 4-way split EP limited to 1000 copies (first 200 on splattered vinyl) with Funeral Winds, Leviathan (US), and Ad Hominem (Undercover Records). In 2007, the band released their 2nd full-length album on June 13th, titled "Funeral Mass" (Avantgarde Music). The first 100 copies were limited digipacks with poster and Avantgarde bag.  

Current line-up of Eternity(Germany): 
vocals - A.Krieg (also of: Anti (Ger), Darkmoon Warrior, Hellfucked)
guitar, vocals - Managarm (also of: Heldentum, Wolfsmond)
guitar - Diabolus
bass - Angel of Doom
drums -  Basilisk (also of: Darkmoon Warrior, Wolfsmond)

-------------
The idea for Eternity(Norway) was started during the early days of the Second-Wave by Eternity and Blasphemer(Of Mayhem fame).  Eternity even claims that: "I was there when the blaze was lit and did my part to torch the northern sky".  Even though the idea was old the project never actually grew to anything until the the beginning of the 21st century due to Blasphemer moving onto Mayhem and Eternity getting his college education.  After 2 demos Eternity finally released his first LP Bringer of the Fall in 2006.

-------- 
Eternity (Spain) was formed in 2002 by Víctor Bielsa .
After their first demo and some concerts, they signed with Pies Records and distributed their album, "Entre el Bien y el Mal" all around the country.  

In 2006 they released a new album, "Mare Nostrum"  and in 2008 they are about to release their third album, "Alma Errante"

Current line-up of Eternity (Spain):  
Vocals and guitar- Raúl Velilla 
Guitar -  Víctor Bielsa 
Keyboards- Fernando Bibian
Bass - Juan Navarro 
Drums - Pablo Larrode

------------
Eternity (Slovenia)

Eternity - Slovenia's unique metal band,that delivers 
pure and uncompromising energy on their live shows,
and a wealthy dose of outstanding vocals and symphonic melodies right into your veins.
Strong vocal lines are perfectly combining with symphonic background,
the guitar's riffage and drumming fits in and the bass guitar's
low-end is spot on. 5 guys and a girl gathered together 2 years ago,
and with a few line-up changes, they're prepared to rock and take
your soul on eternal journey through melodies, that you'll never forget.


Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/gothicbandeternity <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.