Formed in Tel Aviv, Israel in late 2001, ETERNAL GRAY does not subscribe to Oriental Metal like so many of their countrymen.
Instead their debut album "Kindless" (Raven Music/Listenable, 2002) captured worldwide attention by their unique brand of melodic Death Metal with a dark twist.
Recorded in the famed Abyss Studios by Tommy Tägtgren, featuring guest appearances of Peter Tägtgren (Hypocrisy) and Schmier (Destruction), their first full length immediately scored full grades and even "album of the month" titles in major Metal magazines.

Following the release of the album, the band performed a series of headlining shows around Israel, as well as invited to share stage with acts such as MESHUGGAH, DESTRUCTION, MEGADETH, DISMEMBER, BEHEMOTH and ROTTING CHRIST to name but a few.
In order to fill in the missing positions, Gil Ben-Ya'akov (Bass) and Roy Chen (Drums) have joined the band in 2003. 

In 2004, the band entered the studio to work on new material for their second studio album “Your Gods, My Enemies”, but decided to record an EP before, which was planned for release in only 1000 copies. However, not long after recording the EP “Numb”, the band parted ways with singer/guitarist Eyal Glottmann, a change that got in the way of releasing the EP and completing work on the new album.
It was the only release to be recorded with the second line-up as later in 2005, the band parted ways with Roy Chen (drums) and was joined by vocalist Oren Balbus, guitarist Auria Sapir and drummer Dror Goldstein.
With this new lineup ETERNAL GRAY decided to enter the studio once again and record this EP (for the 2nd and then the 3rd time), which eventually never saw the light of day as they decided to cut this cycle and start working freshly on a full-length.

Guitarist and founding member Dory Gray moved to Germany in 2006, to concentrate on his musical career and write fresh material for the album (“Your Gods, My Enemies”). Eventually, until 2007, the band had finished the writing process and decided to record the album.

It took the band eight years to follow up its debut album success with a new, 2nd full-length album "Your Gods, My Enemies" (Season of Mist, 2011).
Recorded in Studio Underground, Sweden, "Your Gods, My Enemies" witnesses the band taking a big step with added complexity, without losing its signature dark-tones and specific atmosphere in the songs.

Nowadays the band is no longer active having split up in 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternal+Gray">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.