ETERNAL VOYAGER has been knocking about since 1998 is some form or another.  Brian Blake formed the idea for the band back then when he was living in Northern Minnesota, however the first line up of the band was formed in Cedar Rapids, Iowa with Kevin Rife (Bass) who he had met at a local music shop, and Russel Binder (drums).  They went on to record a few demos and play some shows, but ultimately parted ways.  Brian moved back to Minnesota, and ETERNAL VOYAGER was quiet for a few years.

In the early to mid 2000's, Brian acted as vocalist for Minneapolis, MN based power metal band (ironically titled) ETERNAL REQUIEM.  They had a brief overnight rise to fame locally, playing shows with international bands such as TRAIL OF TEARS, ECHOES OF ETERNITY, SONATA ARCTICA, EDGUY, and KAMELOT.  But all this as great as it was, Eternal Requiem came to an abrupt end, and it was time to move on.

It was around this time in the fall of 2008, James Monte (drums) was departing from Minneapolis death metal band, D.I.M.  Aaron Liimatainen, guitarist for D.I.M., and a close friend of James introduced him to Brian.  At the time Brian was merely looking for someone to do some studio tracks, however Brian and Monte clicked and they started reforming ETERNAL VOYAGER as a band.  James also brought over Becki (bass) who had recently departed from D.I.M.

As a three piece the band started playing shows and self produced a demo called the "Holy Warrior E.P." with guest keyboardist John Rayl. They had some success locally playing with local acts and a few national acts, however after some time Becki parted ways with the band and there was another brief period of retooling.

Long time friends of Brian's, Brett Ahlgren (Bass) and Mickster (guitar) joined the band along with Don "E.V." Volk on keyboards.  In 2010 Eternal Voyager released the "Vagabond E.P." which had 2 versions of the song with different mixes.  The band played as a 5 piece for some time, until Don left ETERNAL VOYAGER to play keyboards in HOLLOWSTONE.

In the Fall of 2013, the band went into the studio to record a full length album including many of the songs on the previous demos. In 2014, the band released their debut album, THE BATTLE OF ETERNITY, which made great reviews in a few online magazines around the world, also two online radio stations picked up the band, and interviewed them as well gave air play. The band also did two exclusive interviews with Nuclear Blast writer Brett Kilmihre which reached a much wider audience, and helped further put them in the public eye. Sadly the only members that recorded on the album were Brian, James, Mickster, and new comer on bass, Jeff Iselgrud. James had step down do to family and work issues, and was replaced by new drummer Lucan Madramootoo. Also mickster on guitars also left, The album included many guests, Rob Nesco,(ex Epicurean) on lead guitars, and Bob Katsionis of FIREWIND/OUTLOUD, on keyboards.The band carries on as always and plan to record a new EP/mini album. 

TAKEN FROM ETERNAL VOYAGER'S WEBSITE: www.voyagermetal.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eternal+Voyager">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.