Eterne De Sade formed in 1992 and exploded onto the Florida underground scene. In 1994 the band went into the studio for the first time and recorded their first demo entitled "Beyond the Mind's Eye." The 3 song demo received good reviews in zines from europe to the far east. The dual vocal styles and the non typical death metal lyrics set the band apart from other bands emerging from Florida at the time. In 1995 the band was featured in the documentary film "Six Feet Under" which was directed by Kurt Webber and featured Eterne De Sade, Ebullition and Killing Addiction. In 1995 the band went into the studio again. This time out it was a split EP with Killing Addiction for Legacy records. The EP was recorded with Marc Pinske (Malelolent Creation, Frank Zappa, Steve Vai) at Pro-Media studios. While in the studio, Spaz from the industrial band Sphere Lazza requested and sampled from the EDS song "Final Habitation" for a song on their Enemy Within album also released in 1995 on the Cleopatra record label. Eterne De Sade then hit the road with Killing Addiction in support of the EP. The band built a strong following throughout the southeastern United States for their aggressive live shows. The band had the opportunity to play with several national acts including: Killing Addiction, Skeletal Earth, Sphere Lazza, Speculum, Equinox, Dead Industry and Underoath. After departing from Legacy records, the band went back into the studio in May of 1996. The band recorded "the age of the darkened sun" which was the heaviest and best material from the band to date. Unfortunately there were problems with the master recordings. The band then had more problems when one of the members had personal issues to deal with. The other members decided not to replace him and to put the band on hold. In 1998 "the age of the darkened sun" was finally released. The members of Eterne De Sade had moved on to other projects including Alsup and Carroll working with 2 members from Killing Addiction in the original line up of Autumn's Wake. Other members were playing with such bands as Triad, Penatence and Weszt. Alsup and Goodell were again in the same line up with Halflife. There has been a request for the music to be made available (especially the songs from "the age of the darkened sun") which is why this site was put together. There is no talk of a reunion only the music. So here it is; the songs will be changed out on occasion to keep it fresh. Thanks for all the support shown to us over the years.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ETERNE+DE+SADE">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.