Ethereal Blue, from Greece, is a band that performs death/black experimental musical art. They were formed in Ioannina-Greece, during the first month of 2002 as a company of dilettante musicians. After rehearsing several times and getting known each other better, they came up with the material that consisted their debut self-financed demo-cd “A Mourning Ocean…” which received pretty good reviews from several web and fanzines worldwide and offered them the chance to sign a contract with the French label Deadsun Records.

     On February 2005, Deadsun Records put out on market Ethereal Blue’s debut full-length album named “Black Heart Process”, moving within aggressive, technical and intense paths and receiving more than encouraging feedback from the metal press. The music was the result of a unique apprehension of the NWOSDM, the English Gothic Metal forms and the bitter aggression of the Black Metal genre, without missing the bands most characteristic feature that is the melody and a rather wide and holistic way of composing. Ethereal Blue continue experiencing live venues along with bands such as Arcturus, Moonspell, Rotting Christ, Septic Flesh and Naer Mataron resulting in their ongoing publicity.

     After several line-up changes and a “void era”, the band started composing new material for the sophomore album. In the meantime, a management contract with Alkemist Fanatix Europe was attained and Ethereal Blue ended up in signing a record deal in 2008 with Casket/Copro Records (UK). Within the following years, the album’s composition finished and the band entered Reaction Studios (Athens-Greece) with Sebastian Marc as a producer. The recording and mixing sessions endured a year (2009), reaching to Ethereal Blue’s second album entitled “Essays In Rhyme On Passion & Ethics”, inspired by the ethology of Greek literature.

     “Essays In Rhyme On Passion & Ethics” combines post-metal attitudes with black metal norms and controversial pop melodies, along with a touch of traditional Greek rythmology. The album will be out on February 2010.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ethereal+Blue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.