There are more than one artists using this mononym :-

1. Ethel Ghrenass, a pop/rnb singer-songwriter from Paris, Î-d-F, France.
2. Stylised in all caps - a string quartet from New York City, NY, United States.
3. Ethel was an indie/emo band from Madison, Wisconsin active in the 1990s.

1. Ethel Ghrenass is a singer-songwriter and producer based in Paris. Her music is mainly inspired by artists such as Kali Uchis, GoldLink, and Solange.

While studying in the UK, she met a community of like-minded creative individuals who all helped bring her independent project to life and she self-released her first single "Rubikscube" in 2019. A year later, the French label Zuma approached her to produce a bedroom track during quarantine, resulting in her  second single "À demain" which was featured on the label's compilation album Fait Maison, alongside contributions from Enchantée Julia, Brö & other's.

She is currently working on her first EP, offering a fresh and modern approach to French music wavering between pop and rnb.

 2. Described as “indefatigable and eclectic” (The New York Times) and “vital and brilliant” (The New Yorker), the string quartet ETHEL continues to be a pacesetter of post-classical music. Formed in 1998, the New York City-based ETHEL comprises Ralph Farris (viola), Dorothy Lawson (cello), Corin Lee (violin) and Kip Jones (violin). 

ETHEL performs adventurous music by celebrated contemporary composers such as Julia Wolfe, Phil Kline, David Lang, John King, Raz Mesinai, John Zorn, Steve Reich, Kenji Bunch, JacobTV, Don Byron, Marcelo Zarvos, Evan Ziporyn and Mary Ellen Childs. 

Upcoming highlights for the 2012-13 season include: a concert tour of the Netherlands; a week-long workshop/performance of “ETHEL’s Documerica” at New York City’s Park Avenue Armory; and nationwide tours of “Tell Me Something Good” with rock icon Todd Rundgren, of “Music of the Sun” with Native American flutist Robert Mirabal, and of “And Other Stories...” with guitarist Kaki King.  ETHEL currently serves as the Ensemble-in-Residence at the Grand Canyon Music Festival as part of the Native American Composers Apprenticeship Project, the official house band of TEDxManhattan, and more.

For more information, please visit http://www.ethelcentral.org. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ethel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.