The band started out with Ste and Stuart Bates playing guitar together way back in 1999. Although just a hobby at the time, it quickly became a more engaging passtime for Ste. After a while, Stuart moved on to pastures new, and his younger brother Mike swiftly took his place. The two practiced together for several years using various garages and bedrooms.

In 2003, after other projects had been and gone, they decided to step things up and look for new members to create a full band. After searching around college and local venues, they tried several people out for bass guitar. Eventually, Damian joined as a permanent bassist.

After 2 years of writing and practicing, sadly Mike had to leave to attend university in Sheffield, and it was time to look for another guitarist. After some extensive searching and spamming, a random series of encounters on a train lead to us recruiting Sam.

As a threesome, they decided on the band's first name: Ascension, and re-wrote and enhanced older songs. After struggling to find a drummer or vocalist for another 2 years, Ste joined Violent Haze, another metal band from Glossop. Ascension was put on hold until new members were found; however, in a strange turn of events, Violent Haze needed a bassist, and Damian joined to fill the vacancy. Shortly afterwards VH needed a new rhythm guitarist, and Sam was trialled to fill the position. After two months of practicing, the three then left Violent Haze due to differences in opinion about Sam's place in the group, as well as the band's direction.

After a few weeks of spamming around on MSN and various other places, James Dorman got in touch about filling the vocalist or keyboard positions and after several trips to the pub, we welcomed him in as the fourth member.

We have now reformed the band, and renamed it, due to the original name already being in use by many bands worldwide. Ethereal Logic are now back in action and ready to return to the metal scene. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ethereal+Logic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.