Etherune... A mystical creation indeed!

The Etherune, a powerfull and ancient symbol, was unearthed in an heavily overgrown and remote wooded area on the outskirts of Truro in the year 2004 by two wandering individuals who go by the names of Sean (Lord of all that is Boar!) and Julian (Ruler of said domain).
The Etherune was encountered while our featured individuals where on a hunt for their next meal in the outlaying woodlands. A mighty large boar caught the eyes of Sean, whom being a rather large fellow, deemed this a great meal for his belly to have his fill with! This boar however was faster than the individuals presumed...
A great chase was to be had with this fat beast, which soon lead the two astray into the unknown section of the woodlands which they had never seen before. The boar, having now long gone, had kicked up a mound of earth in his chase and revealed what appeared to be the corner of a large stone in the ground.

The two individuals, being curious of the object infront of them, soon took to digging in the soil. They eventually unearthed a large slab of granite with an unknown rune carved into it, the rune appeared to be Cornish in its origins.

Sean and Julian lifted this great slab of stone back to their home and quickly summoned the great historians of the land to unearth scrolls and parchments that might lead to some explaination of this rune that lay before them. One historian, after several weeks, came back to them with a somewhat degraded scroll from the year of Ad.807 that stated the discovery of a rune carved in a stone that was unearthed near the cliffs of Botallack by a tin streamer on his way homeward.
This rune was named the Etherune, as it was thought to have brought prosperity to the mining folk of the region and was considered an ethereal rune of great power. However, religious policies of the day deemed that worsip of anything that was non-christian was a crime against the church. Hence the Etherune was lost in the scrolls of time and was never heard of or seen again untill that day in 2004 when our featured individuals unearthed it near the small town of Truro.
Quite how it got there is a mystery, but it's power was well and truely felt by both Sean and Julian.

Our individuals deemed it nessecary to honour the Etherune by casting musical creations that exhalted the majesty and power of Cornwall's ancient origins and the power that it still holds tightly!

Thus Etherune was born!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Etherune">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.