Hailing from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, Ethereal Collapse is an ardent group of musicians whose only goal is to spread the essence of true heavy metal. Formed under the name Deity in 2002, the group began as a cover band, playing some of Northeastern Pennsylvania’s most popular clubs and building credit as a professional outfit even before its members finished high school. With their unquestionable musical abilities and natural charisma, the men of Deity had established themselves as a significant force in the local cover band scene. During this time, however, the band had also begun writing its own material, and soon enough, it was time for a paradigm shift.

In January of 2004, Deity changed its name to Ethereal Collapse, and the band took on a whole new attitude. Its goal was simple: to create and perform the heaviest, most melodic music possible. In April of that same year, Ethereal Collapse released its long-overdue first demo, Fallen Hope, which received rave reviews from many respected metal webzines. A bevy of high-profile gigs followed, including local opening slots for such national acts as Mastodon, Origin, Exhumed, A Life Once Lost, and Dead to Fall.

Once the band knew that it had a quality recording under its belt, the members decided to reach out to some record labels. After months of repeated efforts, the band received an offer from Innerstrength Records, who then signed the group to a one album deal. Over the next several months, Ethereal Collapse recorded its first full-length album, Breaching the Citadel, for release on Innerstrength. Unfortunately, the group’s inability to tour led to strained relations with the label and differences among the members, and the added stress of recording an album suitable for nationwide release ultimately led to the band’s dissolution. In August of 2006, Ethereal Collapse played its farewell show, opening for Metal Blade Records recording artist Cellador and selling pressed copies of the recently-completed album Breaching the Citadel. Loyal fans gave the band a proper sendoff, and to the best of everyone’s knowledge, Ethereal Collapse had been laid to rest.

After the breakup, the band members tried their luck with other musical projects but soon began to feel a strange emptiness. Realizing that Ethereal Collapse had brought them more joy than any other musical endeavor, the group reformed in July of 2007. Breaching the Citadel had received even better reviews than Fallen Hope, and the band once again found itself at the top of the metal underground. In 2008, the group released Categories, a concept EP that addressed a variety of philosophical subjects. With Categories, Ethereal Collapse proved that there was more to the metal genre than sheer brutality, and the usual critical praise followed. These albums netted the group another batch of significant shows, allowing it to share the stage with such bands as Suidakra, Alestorm, Tyr, Macabre, and Dysrhythmia.

Throughout its existence, Ethereal Collapse has striven only for purity and excellence, crafting songs that embody everything that is great about classic heavy metal. Melody, aggression, and other traditional elements are readily discernible throughout each of the band’s songs, and its members work hard to ensure that these ideals are preserved. Blending the sounds of Bay Area thrash with Swedish melodic death metal, they present a frighteningly original brand of music. With several recordings released to critical acclaim, the band is determined to conquer the metal world, ready to annihilate any adversity that stands between its members and their destiny.

"Ethereal Collapse is one of the best up and coming melodic death metal bands America has produced."
-Pivotal Alliance

"Ethereal Collapse personifies every aspect of heavy metal that I happen to love: fast, heavy guitar parts, multiple integrated guitar solos, breakneck drumming, and powerfully-delivered vocals."
-Deadtide

"...one of the best melodic death metal bands we have heard from the USA."
-Infernal Masquerade <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ethereal+Collapse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.