Etherwood is the most recent signing to Med School and is undoubtedly one of the most promising young talents in the scene today. Originally from Lincoln and now living in London, Woody has already captured the imagination of thousands across the globe with his achingly beautiful beats and heartfelt melodies.

Brought up on everything from The Beatles and Stevie Wonder, to Hendrix and Pink Floyd, Woody’s exposure to classic rock and folk swiftly propelled him into the world of music. He bought his first guitar when he was 12 and immediately started to write songs and play in bands and the rest, as they say, is history. To this day, Woody still plays guitar for Jakwob.

Etherwood first discovered drum & bass in the late 90s and, inspired by the likes of Aphrodite, Photek, Logistics, Roni Size, and DJ Hype, he was drawn to it by the atmosphere, tempo and energy. Still no more than a passive observer of the scene, from there, he got into bands like Mogwai, Godspeed You Black Emperor, Explosions In The Sky, The Album Leaf and Telefon Tel Aviv and cites these as some of his key influences. 

Fusing the upbeat energy of drum and bass with the chilled, atmospheric moods of reverb-heavy guitar and delayed piano rolls, it’s hard to believe that Etherwood only started producing drum and bass two years ago. Already he’s received support from Radio One, Capital FM, XFM, Triple J and Rinse FM and has remixed high profile artists including Lana Del Ray, Jakwob and Jess Mills. 

His first solo release was on Hospital Records – “Give It Up”, which appeared on ‘Sick Music 3’ in November 2012, swiftly followed by the now iconic anthem “Spoken” which appeared on the ‘Hospitality Drum & Bass 2013 and of course, his most recent offering on Med School, “Unfolding” which opened the ‘New Blood 013’ album in March 2013.

As we look to the horizon, things are looking very promising for this future star. With a signature sound that is deeply compelling and a dedicated fanbase all eager to hear what’s next from Etherwood, you can expect to be hearing a lot more from Etherwood over the coming months and years. 

Website | Facebook | SoundCloud | Twitter | Med School <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Etherwood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.