Ethropia is a Melodic Death Metal band from Mulhouse, France formed by Wynn (lead guitar), Thorn (rhythm guitar) and Ju (drums). 

After much searching and many auditions, Unna (bass),  Gaytan (keyboards) and Lycan (vocals) finally joined the band and the line up was completed September 2009.

Their influences include bands such as Arch Enemy, Kalmah, Hypocrisy, Children of Bodom, Eternal Tears of Sorrow, Prey for Nothing, Stormlord, Mors Principium Est and more.

Ethropia combines Death Metal guitar riffs with more melodic sounding keyboard melodies to create their own original sound reminiscent of their Scandinavian influences.

In 2009 the band recorded their first 5 song demo.

After many performances throughout the Alsace in the beginning of 2010, Ethropia set out with several compositions and visions to record their first album that summer. However the recording process was put on hold when their vocalist, Lycan, departed the band.

After several months the line up was finally (re)completed with the addition of the American female vocalist, Heather 'Anex' Berthereau, joining the band as their new vocalist. She has also taken up the task of writing new lyrics for the band's songs.

In September 2011 Gaetan (keyboards) relocated to another part of France for employment reasons and thus departed the band further delaying recordings.

Determined to release content, the band recorded a 3 song demo in January 2012 to tide things over until the release of their EP.

Ethropia played one live show with Anex  April 28, 2012 at Caf Conc in Esisheim, France.

In July 2012 Anex decided to leave Ethropia citing musical differences as the reason.

Ethropia was disbanded in July 2012.

Official Facebook Page:
http://www.facebook.com/Ethropia
Official Twitter Page:
http://www.twitter.com/Ethropia
Official YouTubePage:
http://www.youtube.com/Ethropia
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ethropia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.