Etta Bond, born 2 December 1989 as Henrietta Bond, is a singer born in Cambridge but based in London.

She is the first signing to Odd Child Recordings, partially owing to Bond's becoming friends with Labrinth thanks to a fluke MySpace encounter.

Writing material for her debut release, Bond worked with producer DaVinChe – having already uploaded the demo singles "Ask Me to Stay" and "Come Over". Credited as Henrietta, she appeared on DaVinChe's song "No Significance", which was also featured on the 4.3.2.1 film soundtrack. Bond also made an appearance on British rapper Wretch 32's second studio album, Black and White, on the track "Forgiveness" – which was released on 11 December 2011 as a single.

Bond and fellow Odd Child signing Raf Riley (who's also had releases with Mad Decent) released a free collaboration EP on 20 July 2012 under the name "Emergency Room", featuring the previously unreleased demo "Ask Me To Stay" alongside 7 other tracks, including the single "Boring Bitches", featuring Lady Leshurr. The video was produced by Reuben Dangoor alongside the EP artwork, and received mixed opinions due to the controversial content shown in the video. The EP received support from many notable artists, including Labrinth, Diplo, Professor Green and Mike Skinner among others. "Resolve" was released in the form of a promotional video in December 2012. Both the video and artwork were made by Dangoor again.

On 26 July 2013, ExR released the music video for "Big Girl's Vogue", the first promotional single from their second EP Meds. The eight-track EP was released for free download on 8 August 2013. The duo appeared on Target's BBC Radio 1Xtra show on 13 August 2013 to promote the EP. They also appeared on CJ Beatz' "Soundcheck Special" to perform "Loophole" on 1Xtra on 9 September 2013. On 30 September 2013, they appeared on Rinse FM to perform "Break Free". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Etta+Bond">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.