There are (were) 3 bands called Eucharist:

1) A melodic death metal band from Veddige, Sweden.
2) A metalcore band from Richmond, VA, USA.
3) A black/death metal band from Australia.

1) The Swedish Eucharist was founded in Veddige, a little city about 40 km from Gothenburg (Göteborg), Sweden sometime in 1989. They released a demo in 1992. The same year a 7-inch EP called "Greeting Immortality" was released by Obscure Plasma Records. It featured song 1 and 3 from the demo. In 1993 the band recorded a song named "The View" for a Deaf Records/Peaceville compilation album called "Deaf Metal Sampler". Suddenly the band split up.

But soon after, Wrong Again Records asked them to reunite and sign a deal, which they also did. Their debut album "A Velvet Creation" was released in 1993. In the summer of 1994, two tracks, "Wounded And Alone" and "The Predictable End" were recorded especially for a compilation album released by Wrong Again Records (W.A.R. Compilation - Volume One, released in 1995).

Eucharist split up again and some members started playing in other bands. Daniel for example recorded the drums for two tracks on In Flames' EP "Subterranean". In 1996, Marcus and Daniel started working with Eucharist again and they were instantly offered a deal by WAR Music (a new label risen from the ashes of Wrong Again Records) and the second full-length album "Mirrorworlds" was the result. The album was released in 1997. But then again in 1998, Eucharist split up for the third and maybe (?) final time.

After the split of Eucharist, Daniel joined (and is still a member of) Arch Enemy and is also playing in the reunited Carcass. Other former Eucharist members play(ed) in Revengia, The End (Swe), Cromlech, Eternal Lies, Armageddon (Swe) and some more lesser known projects.

The basis of this text is taken from the official fan site: http://www.artnoir-productions.com/eucharist. Full song downloads from every release are available there.

Semi-official Eucharist MySpace: www.myspace.com/eucharistsweden


2) The US Eucharist was active in the mid 1990s. They released a self-titled LP on Mountain Collective in 1996 and two songs on the "Nothing's Quiet on the Eastern Front" Compilation 12" on Reservoir, in 1997.

3) The Australian black metal band Eucharist has released two demos as of 2014: Demise Rites and Tenebrous Summoning. Both demos are self-released. A Compilation of the two demos was released by Total Holocaust with the same name as the first demo (Demise Rites). The band is rumored to have members of Nazxul but no solid lineup information has been made public. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eucharist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.