Eugenic Death is an uncompromising Thrash metal band from North Carolina. The goal of this band is to attack your senses with unrelenting force. We play only oldschool, in your face, evil sounding thrash metal. To hell with happy sounding notes..that has crept into the metal scene!
 Prepare yourself for a Eugenic Death! 

Formed in late 2010, Eugenic Death is a thrash metal band from 
Greensboro, North Carolina. Fanatical followers of old-school thrash metal, the 
members of Eugenic Death are on a metal mission to bring back the genre with even
 faster, harder, and sicker rifts and fills, while still maintaining the classic
 old-school sound and style. 
Jonathan McCanless-lead guitarist-had long desired to get his music into mass circulation
 and decided in late 2010 that the only way to accomplish this was to start a band with
 the most professional, dedicated, and talented musicians he could find. 
He knew it wouldn't be easy, as his earth-shattering rifts 
and finger-blistering solos were highly technical, fast, and melodic. He knew that only
 the best would do. Fortunately, he had a couple of metalheads in mind. 
The natural choice for vocals was Keith Davis, whose voice is reminiscient of legends
 like Chuck Billy of Testament and Steve Reynolds of Demolition Hammer, and whose
 presence is nothing but pure, unadulterated thrash. Jonathan had previously 
been in another local band, with Keith and knew his capacity for 
producing epic thrash vocals. The other member of that original band was Shane Lucas,
 the bassist, whose style is heavily influenced by Steve Harris of Iron Maiden. 
His wildly creative bass parts harmonized perfectly in both speed and style with
 Jonathan's guitars. 
Unsure of where to find a drummer that could play the technically challenging, 
face-melting, and frenzy-inducing drum parts needed to compliment such a line-up,
 Jonathan turned to Keith and Shane to find the perfect fit. Keith immediately offered
 the name Ian Pasquini, a drummer from High Point, NC. Influenced by Mastadon, Slayer,
 and Dying Fetus, Ian earned his place as Eugenic Death's drummer with his 
versatility, dedication, and ear-rupturing drum parts. Amid initial 
worries that this was too odd of a pairing, any and all concerns were obliterated by the
 violent majesty which emanated from that first practice. 
One thing is for certain; you will be thrashed to death!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eugenic+Death">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.