There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Euphoria is a Canadian trance, techno, and electronica music project formed in Toronto in 1993 by Ken Ramm. 

2) Indian rock band: Euphoria were among the first to bring rock culture to India. They mixed electric guitar with traditional instruments like the tabla, dholak and sitar to create mesmerising effects. 

3) A psychedelic/sunshine-pop band from Texas who released one highly sought after album on the Capitol label in 1969 entitled "A Gift From Euphoria".

4) post-rock band from Tokyo, Japan (songs: Butterfly Track, Quiet Rain, Silence in Everywhere, Silent Roar, White Pattern, etc.)

5) alias of V.A.G.A.B.O.N.D, mainly devoted to trance-core and happy hardcore

6) acoustic band of two teenage boys from New Jersey.

7) 70s rock trio from Wisconsin, USA.

8) Russian post-punk and half-alternative band from Moscow.

9) An Australian Pop/Dance Trio From The Early To Mid 90's

10) An Estonian acoustic rock / heavy metal band from Tallinn

11) A Japanese jazz-fusion band

12) EUPHORIA is Fumihiko Kitsutaka(X.Y.Z.→A, KING-SHOW)'s solo project.

13) alias of Gerard Requena, makina producer from Spain.

14) Death metal band from Lviv, Ukraine. 

15) Euphoria was a short-lived folk rock band from 1968 to 1969, that was formed in New York.

16) EUPHORIA was a Japanese cross-dressing idol group from 2019 to 2021.
----

1) Euphoria is a Canadian trance, techno, and electronica music project formed in Toronto in 1993 by Ken Ramm.  Their 1999 self-titled effort featured guest appearances by Geddy Lee (Rush), Roy Babbington (Soft Machine), Anne Dudley (Art of Noise), and gospel singer Juliette Roberts. Euphoria gained popularity in 1999 when the track "Delirium" from the self-titled debut release broke onto North American radio charts. The album Beautiful My Child was released in early 2001. In 2006, Euphoria released their third album, Precious Time, which featured full-length vocal tracks from singers Tracy Bonham and Tina Dico.

2) Consists of Palash Sen (Polly - lead vocals), Benjamin Pinto (Benny - keyboard), Debajyoti Bhaduri (DJ - bass), Hitesh Madan (Rikki - guitar), Gaurav Misra (Gary - guitar), Rakesh Bharadwaj (dholak), Prashant Trivedi (tabla) and Ashwani Verma.
Since 1998, they've released 4 albums (Dhoom, Phir Dhoom, Gully and Mehfuz), 2 singles (Mantra, Jeet Lo Dil) and 11 videos.
They were the first band to play music at the General Assembly Hall of the United Nations, New York.

3) The group was formed by guitarist Hamilton Webb, and produced only one album, A Gift From Euphoria (Capitol, 1969 - Rev-ola, 2004).

4) Euphoria consists of Hiro Morikawa (guitar, vocals, programming), Shota Sato (bass) and Yosuke Kinoshita (drums). All of them went to the same school from elementary to high school. Therefore, they are not only band mates, but also longtime close friends with each other. The band was formed during the winter of 2001 when they were in the third year of high school.
euphoria's music sometimes has a lyrical, atmospheric and cinematic touch to it. It seems as if they sounded a silent roar and brought you fairy-tale landscapes with their music. So far, they have played with The Album Leaf, Tarentel, and many other bands. There are three officially released albums available in Japan. They were released by 123RECORDS.
The band's discography is available here: http://euphoria-sound.com/discography.html . Their latest album, silence in everywhere, was released in July 2008. http://www.geocities.com/zuran_mage is a page which lists lyrics to their two EPs.

5) Released several tracks, including Silver Dawn, Playing Games and Too Beautiful mainly on the Next Generation label.

6) Released a short three-track CD including' Everyday', 'Close My Eyes' and 'Empty Spaces'.

7)  This Power trio from Wisconsin circa 1973, showed amazing songwriting talent + musical ability Classic midwest American heavy psych with somewhat biker vibe Raging agressive Fuzz-guitar leads with great echoey-reverb effects ,true sledgehammer bass ,crunching drums ,very melodic tunefull vocals A Must for all 70 s heavy psych enthusiasts. This is a heavy rock album with lots of fine guitar work, particularly on the title track, Lost In Trance, the most psychedelic cut, and Enchanted. All the songs on the album were written by lead guitarist D. Walloch.

8) They started in January 1988 with Sergei "ZZ" Yegorshev on bass and vocal (also author of all music and lyrics), Vladimir “Baton” Plakhov on guitar and Vladislav “Bah Jahn” Komarov on drums. They began as glam metal band, singing on English only. After departure of Bah Jahn in August 1988, Dmitry “Boroda” Schonov came. By this cast they released mini-cassette album "Avtozavodskaya Alley" in May 1989. Then in March 1990 Sergei “Usov” Naumenko was added on guitar and the four issued long-play cassette album "Living In Russia" in August 1990. ZZ was recruited in Soviet Army for period 1990-1992 and after his demobilization group recorded only two singles “Crestfallen” and “Zonked Out” in 1993. ZZ was fired in early 1994 for ignorance of the band’s rehearsals and deeds, also for being permanently drunk. Since that time Oleg Fyodorov on vocal and Sergei Porodzinsky on bass came in group, which started to sing in Russian and play almost punk with a little bit of alternative. Group hasn’t issued since 1993 any record, performing in night Moscow clubs.

9) Euphoria was a popular Australian Pop/Dance music trio from the early 1990s based in Sydney, NSW. The group was founded by producer Andrew Klippel and featured the vocals of Keren Minshull and Holly Garnett. Model Jodie Meares joined the act after Garnett left.

The act appeared on the Australian music scene in 1991 with their first single "Love You Right." That song was featured on the Australian soap opera "E Street." It was through that exposure, along with widespread radio airplay, that "Love You Right" would become their first #1 single on the ARIA Pop chart. Other top ten singles followed, including "One In A Million" (#1), "Do For You" (#7) and the less successful fourth single "I Will Never Leave You" (#41). All of these tracks came from their first and only album, "Total Euphoria" (#14) which was released in the Spring of 1992. A new single, "Elated" was released in 1993 but failed to have any impact, and the group subsequently disbanded.

As for how they formed the band and how they came up with "Love You Right", in 1992 the group had done an interview with a Australian TV show that they only came together as a group just for a laugh (Klippel had wrote the song before the group was formed), but didn't expect that their first single would take off that fast, so they decided to actually become a group after it did.

There was some controversy in 1991 when it emerged that the video for "Love You Right" was something of a fraud. Although the song was sung in its entirety by Keren Minshull, she did not appear in the video, which featured Holly Garnett lip synching to Minshull's vocals. Given the recent Milli Vanilli lip synching controversy, when the scandal broke it initially damaged Euphoria's credibility. As such, Minshull was given prominence in the following video for "One In A Million".

10) Eiforia is a Tallinn underground rock scene band. Founded in the summer of 1996 in Maardu by Vitaly Malev -  the vocalist, guitarist and the basic song writer. He is the only original member of the band as the line-up has been constantly changing. There were two styles the band was playing - heavy/thrash metal with some melodic elements and lyrical ballads with deep text meanings. 
The band has released three albums so far: "Аффект", "Сомати" and "За Гранью Геометрии Смысла", in 2002, 2004 and 2008 respectively. They weren't commercially successful, even some tracks are free to be downloaded. That's why Eiforia is one of the longest members of Tallinn underground rock scene.
Some time ago, Vitaly split the band in two: Eiforia - the original metal band - and Maitreya - the lyrical rock band.
The band is on a hiatus at the moment.

11) Euphoria is a Japanese jazz-fusion band consisting of five members: Mitsuru Kanekuni (sax), Rommy Kinoshita (bass), Masayuki Higuchi (drums), Takefumi Haketa (Keyboards), Toshio Masuda (Keyboards). Many guest artists have appeared on each of their Meldac-label albums. They released five albums from 1989 until 1991.

13) Released only one vinyl "Angelical Verses" in 1998.

15) Euphoria was a short-lived folk rock band from 1968 to 1969, that was formed in New York. They only released one self-titled album before disbanding. The band consisted of Roger Penney, on electric autoharp, Wendy Penney, on Bass guitar, Tom Pacheco, on Acoustic Guitar, and Sharon Alexander. Roger and Wendy were a folk duo performing in Greenwich Village, using the names Roger Becket and Wendy Becket. Euphoria is generally regarded as a sunshine pop group.

16)  EUPHORIA was a cross-dressing unit from 2019 to 2021 under dreamBoat danso-idol project. They released 5 singles and one album before disbanding in 14th November 2021. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Euphoria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.