Eva Can’t is a band born in 2009 in Bologna (Italy); the band’s sound, that was never connected to a precise genre, always evolved even keeping some specific traits like a refined music writing, attention to arrangements and melody, and the stylistic choice of singing in italian.
The debout happens in 2010 with the self-produced album “L’ Enigma delle Ombre” where the band lays the foundations of his sound, after this Eva Can’t follows a stylistic change closer to extreme metal and progressive with “Inabisso” (2011) and “Hinthial” (2014), two concept albums where lyrics and music fuse together to create a refined and elegant work. The albums are acclaimed in many reviews from the musical press and allow the band to play live in different and selected situations.
From 2014 Eva Can’t starts working incessantly to “Gravatum”. The fourth album represent the most profound and sincere music evolution of their entire discography; the music moves away from the extreme sound of the two past albums and become deeply melancholy and heart rending. The album is co-produced with Giuseppe Orlando (Novembre, The Foreshadowing) who handled the Drums Recording and Mastering in his studios. In April 2017 Eva Can’t sign to My Kingdom Music; the release date for Gravatum is fixed on 14th July 2017.
FAQS:
What does Eva Can’t means?
It is the English translation of one of first Eva Can’t song refrain (Estemporanea Volontà Asettica, that is part of the first album “L’Enigma delle Ombre”); Eva Can’t term represents the real and innate limit of the human nature: the Death.
What does the band logo means?
The logo, realized by Helios Pu, is inspired by a german lithograpgy of the 400’s; it represents Eva picking an apple from the death tree originating, according to Christian and Jewish mythology, human mortality.
Why do you sing in Italian?
Because it is a language with high musicality and expressivity, poetic instrument of a strong artistic past. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eva+Can%27t">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.