There are a number of artists with the name 'Evangelist', including  a collaboration between the late Gavin Clark  and Toydrum; a Polish doom metal band; and a British collaboration between Duels vocalist Jon Foulger and cellist Lins Wilson.

1) In 2015 Britain tragically lost one of its true originals, Gavin Clark. At just 46 years old, he unexpectedly passed away at home.  While James Lavelle put UNKLE on hold, Pablo Clements and James Griffith, members of the seminal project since 2007, forged a new musical partnership, TOYDRUM.  Shortly after this in January 2011 the Evangelist concept was conceived and the original demos were written and recorded. The Evangelist, a concept album, is a loosely autobiographical tale, about a preacher’s life.  After Gavin’s death, James and Pablo promised themselves they would finish the record as a tribute to their friend. So that his music live on within his family they even got Gavin’s eldest son, Michael, to sing backing vocals on two of the tracks. The composer Ludovico Einaudi also features on the end of the track ‘Never Feel This Young’ and Bad Seed and Grinderman member Warren Ellis plays dream like viola on the track ‘I’m In Love Tonight’ while other contributions come from many of Gavin’s close friends.  Most of the material featured was recorded live, some of the vocals were done in just a few takes and all of the tracks are the work of three people who understand and understood each other’s talents.  Evangelist by Evangelist was released on 11 December 2015.  

2)  Evangelist is the first epic heavy/doom metal band from Poland. Psychedoomelic Records states that Evangelist’s sound is deeply anchored in classics like Black Sabbath, Candlemass etc, so we are to “expect epic guitar riffs, dirty and barbaric bass and drums of doom.”

IN PARTIBUS INFIDELIUM was recorded between October 2009 and March 2011 and the artwork was done by Xaay (of Nile and Behemoth fame).

3) Evangelist is the name of an audio-visual collaboration between Duels vocalist Jon Foulger and cellist Lins Wilson focusing on the life of controversial American preacher Oral Roberts. It premiered at Sensoria Festival in Sheffield. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evangelist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.