Raised on the South Side of Chicago in a single-parent family, Evan Lionel transcended his circumstances, leveraged his comedic genius and graduated from Columbia’s esteemed Theater Program. Rapidly establishing himself as a formidable stage actor, Lionel soon received a Joseph Jefferson award for “Best Ensemble” in the play PILL HILL. His incredible work ethic allowed him to maintain a grueling regime of theater six nights a week, followed by late-night comedy performances. 

Lionel’s groundbreaking routine can be seen on Martin Lawrence’s hit show “First Amendment” on STARZ. He also makes a special guest appearance on Bill Bellamy’s popular show on TV One “Who’s Got Jokes”. His hard-hitting, self-produced, debut comedy DVD, “Too Real For Y’all”, is the result of touring, headlining and hosting comedy venues across the nation.  It is currently in post-production and follows the success of his hit comedy CD of the same name on the Uproar Entertainment label.  

When it comes to charming audiences, this gifted entertainer has racked up a host of television and movie credits, and a series of both national and international comedy tours. With an exciting routine that is as inspiring as it is entertaining, Lionel’s comedic brilliance has been showcased on CBS’ Entertainment Tonight, BET’s ComicView, HBO Def Comedy Jam, as well as some of the most esteemed clubs in the country. These include The Laugh Factory, The Comedy Store, The Improv and the Uptown Comedy Club. Other TV credits include the WB Network series NIGHTMAN as “Artemus Burton”, Fox’s hit television series LIVING SINGLE as “Duke Ellington”, USA Network’s PACIFIC BLUE as “EZ Bryson” and PM Entertainment’s LA HEAT as “Romeo”. Lionel also appeared with Oprah Winfrey on ABC’s made-for-TV movie THERE ARE NO CHILDREN HERE as “Silver” and NBC’s made-for-TV movie IN THE SHADOW OF A KILLER as “Mickey Tom Brody”.

Lionel’s film credits include character roles in the Damon Wayans’ mega hit MO’MONEY as “Detective Mills”, MAD DOG AND GLORY with Robert DeNiro and Bill Murray, FOLKS with Tom Selleck and the late Don Ameche and the controversial film LOSING ISAIAH starring Halle Berry.

The scope of his talent surpasses film and television, as is evidenced by his exceptional comedic diversity. Lionel’s range spans multiple genres, from Gospel-inspired “Clean” comedy to the unrestrained satire intrinsic to the nation’s top urban nightclubs. This accomplished headliner is also one of Los Angeles’ most sought-after hosts, running an unprecedented five shows a week. 
A semi-finalist in the 2003 Bay Area Comedy Competition, Lionel’s electrifying stage presence and his unique brand of social commentary also rendered him a finalist in the Conscious Comedy Competition, sponsored by Los Angeles’ popular radio station 100.3 “The Beat”. Evan Lionel is also a winner of the Miller Genuine Draft Comedy Search. A force to be reckoned with, he has held his own in featured performances with industry veterans like Chris Tucker, Bernie Mac, Cedric The Entertainer, Tommy Davidson, J. Anthony Brown,Paul Mooney, Adele Givens, Michael Colyar, Myra J and Jedda Jones.

Lionel’s popularity transcends national borders. He recently returned from an incredibly successful tour of London, England, headlining the acclaimed Bloomsbury Theater and leaving his UK fans clamoring for more. That, together with his phenomenally successful tour of Japan and Korea adds to the growing international fan base already established by his sold-out concerts in Guam and Saipan. Working around the globe and around the clock, Lionel has been heard daily on the syndicated Tom Joyner Morning Show soap opera, “It’s Your World” and Los Angeles’ hip radio station KPWR “Power 106” show “Big Boy in the Morning.”

Clearly in a class of his own, Lionel’s versatility is truly remarkable. In addition to his film/television credits, his live comedy concerts and his theater successes, he is a USKA (United States Karate Association) Midwestern Regional Grand Champion and has boxed in the Golden Gloves Championship in Chicago.

“My objective is to help people live better lives through my comedy,” says Lionel, “and, really, just to make the world a happier place.” If you have ever experienced his concerts, you will agree that every time he walks on-stage, he does exactly that. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evan+Lionel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.