There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Evelyn "Eva Lindgren" is from Sweden, she lives in Stockholm and she was 24 years old when she started her musical carreer. She worked as a fashion model in Barcelona and has been voted 'Miss Täby' in her homeland. Her musical background ranges from choir singing in school to several live solo performances in the U.S.A where she lived for one year. 

Her debut single was Funny Bunny Boy, released in the autumn 98. It has been produced by Johnny Jam and Delgado who were responsible for the megahit Barbie Girl by the Danish band Aqua. The single didn't do as well as it was hoped for in the charts, but it was played quite often in the clubs. The next thing we heard from her was a song called Blue Sky Black, a great song which is not released as a single, but was included on a soundtrack to a swedish film called 'Fucking Åmål'. Her second official single was called Play With Me. The song was about a dildo... and one was offered to the first buyers of the CD-single. The whole thing made some people furious, especially in Norway...

2) Evelyn is a young, swedish, 5-piece post-hardcore band. http://www.myspace.com/evelynjkpg 

3) Formed in 2009, Sydney band Evelyn spent their first year writing and recording their debut self titled EP. Released in May of 2010 with a sound that lies somewhere between the bands Acceptance and Thrice, the EP features 5 tracks of melodic rock and includes the bands first single 'Emily'. http://www.myspace.com/evelynsounds

4) Evelyn is a melodic rock band from Lana in South Tyrol (Italy). They released a self-penned and now very rare (and expensive) 5-title CD ("Evelyn") in 1996 including the then local hits "To the top" and "Angel with a broken wing" (ballad).

4) Evelyn is gothic metal band from little town Zbąszynek in western Poland (Lubuskie Voivoidship), which was formed in late 2002.

5) Evelyn  was a melodic rock band from Norway. They released two CDs in their own studio in 1998 (Evelyn) and 2002 (Hope)

6) Evelyn  was a symphonic metal band from York, UK. They released two demos and one album. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evelyn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.