As it seems there are two artists with that name, here ist the official biography of the german metal band from http://www.eventyr.de:

EVENTYR has been established back in February 2001 by Grynngeist (keyboards, vocals), Dycide (guitars) and Rabenkind (vocals). All members already played in their own bands / projects before, so we quickly came up with lots of ideas and different influences. Our first official release has been some kind of "Demo-Single" which has been entitled 'Kr채henblut' (November 2001), followed up by our first full-length Demo 'Feenfl체gel' ('Fairy-wings') in October 2002. Though the material on those releases, which can more than less be categorized as melodic Gothic-Metal with some influcenes from Folk and Black-Metal, can't be seen as representative for our current work with the band, we think you might already get some kind of idea about the quite emotional atmosphere, both when it comes to music and lyrics.

In August 2002 our guitarist Dycide left the band due to some personal differences with some members; therefore the strings will be tortured by Ben who already performed all drum-programmings on 'Feenfl체gel'.

EVENTYR is the Swedish / Norwegian word for "fairy-tale" (which would be "M채rchen" in German); first of all we think it's a quite beautiful (somehow "romantical") name, but beside its "literal meaning" we also see the strong emotions and dreams within that term. It's also what the lyrical concept will be about: there are some more "folkish" songs about all those ancient tales with elves and trolls (revealing our childish minds ;-), but also some more emotional poems which are dealing with the borderline between dreams and reality and human feelings, such as love, hate and desperation...


If there is some information about the other artist or whatever ist is, feel free to add it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eventyr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.