Evenoire plays a kind of metal rich in ideas and influences ranging from gothic/symphonic to prog/doom and medieval/folk. They are next to bands such as Therion, Within Temptation, After Forever, The Gathering, Blackmore's Night... Their sound mixes the power of metal, folk ballads, Oriental echoes and evocative atmospheres of the night. The result is a special and fascinating sound. Lisy' s flute and her voice, which is as sweet and ethereal as powerful and aggressive, give a particular touch to the melodies.

The band was born in 2006 and only one year after got the 2nd rank at the Italian finals of the international contest "The Global Battle of the Bands" with her most popular song "I will stay", which calls forth medieval-folk atmospheres. In November 2007 Evenoire was special guest at the TV program "Star Band" and the episode was broadcasted in several replicas on local television networks of North Italy for a whole year. Up to now the band has performed in many important Italian clubs and events and it is so well known and appreciated.

On 26th December 2008 with a special live showcase was released the first self-produced EP "I will stay", which contains the first 4 songs composed by Evenoire: a journey of 25 minutes into the sound of a band that promises "to stay"!


In the first half of 2009 Evenoire toured in the North of Italy in order to promote the ep, reaching excellent live confirmations.
The EP gained very good reviews from the Italian music criticism and in the May 2009 the famous Italian magazine Metal Maniac published an interview at the band.
Some song taken from the Ep have been diffused from the Belgian radio Radio Quartz and from the USA radio Radio Darkness.

The latest news is the inclusion of the song Aries on the double UK compilation CD Demonic and Divine (Femme Metal Records) together with bands from all over the world (Aesma Daeva, Morning, Magica, Lyriel, Godyva etc). The CD will be distributed in the UK with Code 7 via Plastic Head and all around the world via Dr. Music Distribution.

The band is now searching for a label to support their music and produce the first full length coming in 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evenoire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.