There is more than one artist with this name, including: 

1) Evensong  was a British folk-pop duo who released an album of the same name in 1973. 
2) Evensong  was a British folk trio active in the early 70s. 
3) EvenSong was a Hungarian doom metal band formed in 1997. 

1) Evensong  was a British folk-pop duo who released an album of the same name in 1973.  Comprising Tony Hulme (vocals, guitar)  and Mike Lawson (vocals, guitar), both from Birmingham, session players on the album are Clem Cattini, B. J. Cole, and the notable Herbie Flowers, plus the  string arrangements by former Spencer Davis Group guitarist, Ray Fenwick. 

2) Evensong  was a British folk trio active in the early 70s comprising Anna Pickering (lead vocals), Trev Greenhough and Will Glassby. They recorded "Grannie Wine" in 1973. 

3) EvenSong was a Hungarian doom metal bandformed in 1997 by Agnes (female vocals, keyboards), Gabor Olah (lead guitar) & Mihaly Szabo (guitar). After a couple of months Gergely Cseh (bass) and Gabor Vegh (drums) joined the band. In the summer of '97 they recorded a demo called Lost Tales. This demo made a name for Evensong in the hungarian underground scene. In 1998 Evensong signed with Displeased Records for 3 CDs. Their debut CD Path of the Angels came out in March of 1999 and was chosen album of the month in the Hungarian Metal Hammer. After a few concerts in the homecountry they started to write new songs for the second album, for which they choose a Dutch studio Harrow for recording. 
The second album is called Of Man's First Disobedience and it is a concept one, a peculiar elobaration of biblical themes such as the Genesis, Expulsion of Adam and Eve, the Erection of Babylon...etc. This brilliant symphonic/gothic album came out in 2000 and had very good reviews in many metal magazines and fanzines. In March 2001 the band went to studio (Harrow) again to record their third album Mysterium. It is a melodic and atmospheric metal album with lots of symphonic elements, a big step forward.
After five years of work EvenSong broke up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evensong">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.