Eversin is a progressive metal / power metal band from Italy.

The band was born in the early 2000, under the old monicker of Fvoco Fatvo. Their first self-produced album was in 2002, Tenebra's Dream that mixed the epic and orchestral power to a very aggressive progressive attitude. After publishing the album the band started playing live. One of the most important gig was the festival called "Metalagno", in Vicenza (Italy), where the band played together greatest Italian bands as Centvrion, Arthemis and Paul Chain. Back in the studio was time to start writing for the new album.

"Of Light and Dark", 2004, signed a changes period for the band which introduced new and more experimental faces in its music. "Messiah" and "Of Light and Dark", the only unedited tracks of the album. In fact, the album features 4 cover tracks: "7th son...", by Iron Maiden, "Imaginations...", by Blind Guardian, "The Mirror" by Dream Theater and a great homage to Puccini: an extract from his famous and legendary "Tosca": "E lucevan le stelle". Promoting the album the band plays up and down in all Sicily, playing at the "Temple of Power" Fest, together with other great bands of the italian panorama. Thanks to the good success of the album (over 450 copies sold) the band was contacted by NLM Record for a compilation. "Heavy rendez vous vol. II", sees "Messiah" as one of the most appreciated tracks of the cd.

Next step was, in the late 2006, the full-length album titled "Our Elegy".

Back in the studio, start the rehersal for "DIVINA DISTOPIA". Meanwhile the band signs an exclusive deal with the well-known management agency Alkemist Fanatix Europe and change the monicker in EVERSIN. In august 2009, “Divina Distopia” is ready and mastered at New Sin Studios, one of the most important italian recording and mastering studios.

My Kingdom Music states: with pride and glory we honor EVERSIN’s joining our roster. Their new album “Divina Distopia” is a pure Italian Techno Power-Thrash a la Nevermore, Annihilator ready for a release on February 19th. With this second full-length album, EVERSIN presents a 7 tracks masterpiece of pure strength. Epic, roaring, intense vocals, and strong “like razor cutting“ Metal riffs are wrapped by progressive and experimental keyboards. Characterized by an imposing sound, “Divina Distopia” represents a further new step for the Italian Metal Scene. Megadeth, Annihilator and Iced Earth fuse with Nevermore and Symphony X. When strength meets strength!

Eversin comment: “”Divina Distopia” is the result of years of efforts. Undoubtedly it is a work that expresses what EVERSIN is now and what they represent. It is technical and emotional, fast and hungry at the same time. We could say that it is the ideal meeting between a kind of American Thrash and the technical and the more cutting German Power”.

Eversin at MySpace

Discography:
2002 - “Tenebra's Dream” (promo as FVOCO FATVO)
2004 - “Of Light and Dark” (promo as FVOCO FATVO)
2006 - “Our Elegy” (CD - NLM as FVOCO FATVO)
2010 - “Divina Estopia” (CD - My Kingdom Music)

Line-Up:
Angelo Ferrante – Vocals
Ignazio Nicastro – Bass
Giangabriele Lo Pilato – Guitars

Mimmo “Master” Petrella – Keys (session)
Sergio Calì – drums (session) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eversin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.