Everlost was formed in April 2001 by two guitarists - Andrey Smirnov and Pavel Chernobay. After rehearsing together for a long period they've decided to find musicians on vacant places, because songs for a promo record were almost finished. Soon, vocalist Dmitry Antonov and bassist Sergey Volkov (who was already author of all the lyrics) joined the band. Band's first promo CD Suicidal Instincts was recorded with this line-up. Regarding all advantages and disadvantages of the record, it was welcomed by the fans and the critics. In the spring of 2003 Dmitry Antonov left the band due to personal reasons. It was decided to pass vocalist's duties to Andrey Smirnov. At that time Everlost also gained drummer Sergey Serebrennikov. So, at the end of 2002 band's line-up was finally completed. After that Everlost started to perform at the clubs of Moscow together with various famous bands, preparing new material at the same time. At the beginning of 2003 band's set list consisted of more than 10 tracks, 6 of which were the new ones. Fresh material absorbed the elements of various styles of heavy music, such as sympho-black, doom and even power-metal. In the autumn of 2003 Everlost finished recording of their debut album Bitterness Of The Triumph. The recording took place at the Megaton studio. At the end of 2003 Everlost signed a contract with the biggest russian label Soyuz Music and on March 27, 2004 their album was released. Shortly after that, the band participated in the Battles In The East tour of Vader, Polish famous death-metal monsters. The works on the second album started on the 3rd of January 2006 and took place at DreamPort Studio with the help of Maxim Savosvat (Epidemy, Mechanical Poet) and Tom Tokmakov (Mechanical Poet). As a result, there were 12 expressive and unordinary tracks done. These tracks made band's second album, which was called Noise Factory. Everlost call their new style "core'n'roll", it can be described as energetic and heavy yet melodic music, flavoured with electronic arrangements. The new album was out on the 30th of October 2006, thanks to CD-Maximum, one of the most popular russian heavy labels. The story is to be continued... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Everlost">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.