Ever Dark was formed in February 1990 by Storm and John after a concept of the ultimate dark theme for a band came to Storm in a dream. Soon it became a reality. From day one they sought to lead and create their own style of "Dark Graveyard Metal". Storm: "We were mocked and scorned often. The three song demo "Christian Execution" never came. In '91 I left the first line-up behind for a second which failed, so in 1992 we split up". In February '93 John talked Storm into reforming the band with John's previous bands' guitar team. In May '93 Jay came as session drummer. Storm: "We wrote 4 new songs, 3 of which were recorded on our f\official demo 2/94 'Gravesite Rites'. Jay joined fully in the autumn as we became a better band. The demo was recorded as a four-piece unit as we kicked out a guitarist earlier on. Late May '94 we recruited Tom for a twin lead guitar team. We played a few huge parties later in '94 to promote the band and things went well". The demo-sales were going pretty good and soon Full Moon Productions approached them for a 7" and later planned split CD with Naglfar. The split CD never happened so Full Moon had them record a miniCD seeing their demo his top seller. So, henceforth came 'Armageddon's Birth' (which is now licensed to Two Moons in Europe), unleashing 4 new tracks and a demo song. This mini CD showcases the band's originality, proclaimed as black metal meets 80's gods Possessed/Mercyful Fate. With promising guitars, solos and a huge vocal display the miniCD killed the dead silence of USA bands!
In the summer of '96 EVER DARK signed to Two Moons. The recording for their first full length album, entitled 'Not of God'. started in October. The album contains 9 songs (total running time 58 minutes) including the demo title classic 'Gravesite Rites' and the classic from their first line-up 'Heaven's Damnation' along with promising and suits the music perfectly.
'Not of God' displays some extremely heavy and brutal music with a high level of originality and stands out amongst the many competitors out there. None shall reign darkner!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ever+Dark">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.