Everything But the Girl (EBTG), was a Hull, Yorkshire, UK, folk-pop / trip-hop duo of Ben Watt and Tracey Thorn.  They débuted with a single for a Cole Porter cover, Night And Day (Mar 1982, Cherry Red).  Their final album was Temperamental (Sept 1999, Virgin).

Ben met Tracey when they were at Hull University and she was singing in pop girl-band Marine Girls.  Ben contributed a photograph, for a forthcoming album cover, after which, the pair became partners (later getting married).  They formed Everything But the Girl in 1982, the name inspired by a Turner's Furniture advertising slogan (a popular store near the university).  For a period, Tracey was active in both bands and the album with Ben's photo materialised, Lazy Ways (Apr 1983), which was to be Marine Girls' last.  EBTG soon achieved national success and singles from The Language of Life (1990), got VH-1 airtime - heralding USA notoriety.

Once internationally established, they successfully achieved one of the greatest stylistic changes in modern music; originally a 'folk-pop with jazz influences' band, their fortunes changed with Amplified Heart (Jul 1994) and Todd Terry's successful remix of its track "Missing" (Aug 1994). Since then, EBTG have become more widely known as an electronic act, with Walking Wounded (May 1996), being a well-received example of their metamorphosed sound.

As of 1999, EBTG as a duo are currently on hiatus, as the couple raise their children, out of the public eye.  Watt is a very successful club DJ, Buzzin Fly label-manager and remixer, releasing several 'Lazy Dog' mix compilations (named after his London-based deep house night).

Thorn's 2006 collaboration with Tiefschwarz, on the underground hit song "Damage", seems to have re-awoken her artistic spirit and she released a second solo album, Out of the Woods (Mar 2007). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Everything+But+the+Girl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.