There are many artists sharing this page:

1) Evergreen is an emo band out of the bay area from the early 1990s.

2) Evergreen was an early 90s post-hardcore band formed in Louisville, Kentucky.

3) Evergreen is an Irish and celtic music group from Israel.

4) Evergreen is a Progressive metal/rock band from Kerala, India. They released their debut album "Between and Beyond" in February 2008.

5) A jangle, indie-pop 5-piece band from Derby, United Kingdom, that later became Antiseptic Beauty

6) Co-owner of Leeds dubstep label Ranking Records.

7) A five-piece rock / indie / pop band from Woodbury, NJ (Philadelphia area).

8) EverGreen is a unique electronic pop/rock band formed in 2009 in the greater Baltimore area, combining traditional rock sounds with cutting edge electronic sounds.

9) A heavy metal band from Botswana.

10) Was a 90's skate / indie rock band from Perth, Western Australia. They released the album titled Specimen

11) Indie rock/indie folk band from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

12) Parisian alternative indie-electro-pop band formerly know as We Were Evergreen.

13) Lofi production counterpart of rapper Ben Beal.

---

band 1) They had several releases over their lifespan but have very few left in print. They still have a 7" out on San Diego's Gravity Records. They are notorious amongst emo record collectors due to the rarity of their self-titled LP. Band members include Aaron Calvert (cousin of Todd Calvert, drummer/percussionist of Gertie Fox) on guitar (now in Winfred E. Eye), Andy Ward on bass (also of Antioch Arrow), and Jason Boesel on drums (now in Rilo Kiley).

band 2) Evergreen was formed as Cinderblock by Troy Cox and Dave Pollard. The band featured a revolving lineup whose mainstay through all lineups was guitarist Tim Ruth. They released one 7" (1994) and one LP/CD (1995) (both on Hi-Ball Records). The LP was later reissued by Temporary Residence Records in 2005 and included drummer Britt Walford (Slint, Squirrel Bait), along with vocalist Sean McLoughlin. The LP was recorded by future LCD Soundsystem frontman, Speedking drummer, and DFA co-founder James Murphy. 

In 2009, a twenty-one song CD retrospective titled Wholeness of the Soul was released by Noise Pollution with remastered tracks along with early unreleased demo and live recordings. Founding members Troy Cox and Dave Pollard reformed as Cinderblock Redux for the CD's release party. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evergreen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.