Hailing from the province of West-Flanders (Kortrijk-Menen-Lauwe region), EVIL SINNER came to life during the spring (May) of 1986. The founding members were guitarist Geert Heernaert and bassist Renaat Danckaert. Geert and Renaat had been in a band that had no name in 1984-85, together with a couple of other people. Then Geert and Renaat hooked up with drummer Diego Denorme and started to rehearse at his place. The first official EVIL SINNER line-up was rounded out with Carlo Roels (vocals) and Jan Maes (guitars). This line-up also recorded a first demo in June 1987, a simple 4-track affair, entitled Merciless. It consisted of five speed/thrash tunes. The song Nuclear Power even managed to reach 11 in the top 20 on Metal Top 20, a radio show from Olesnica in Poland, in March of 1988. Live experience was gained during the Madison Metal festival at the Cultureel Centrum in Lokeren on July 4th 1987, alongside ATTILA (Holland), EXPLORER, HELLFIRE and Holland’s VENGEANCE. In November the band went to Brunssum in Holland (November 21st, with SEQUENCE, MENACY, CYCLONE and ALCOHOLICA) and on November 29th they played at ’t Sas in Harelbeke, as opening band for KREATOR and VOI VOD. 

During the first half of 1988 the first line-up changes occurred : Rolf V. replaced guitarist Jan Maes and drummer Diego was replaced by Jean-Luc Devos. With this new line-up a second demo was recorded in June of 1988, simply entitled Demo 2. This particular line-up proved to be more or less solid and on January 28th 1989 EVIL SINNER was back at Zuudhove in Koekelare, together with CROSSHEAD & XIPHOID. After that particular gig the band negotiated a recording contract with Pilum Records. As a result the quintet entered the Uptide Studio in Zelzate with producer Gus Roan to record their first official release, the Evil Sinner mLP, which was released both on vinyl and CD in the fall of 1989. Lack of promotion and proper distribution resulted in the fact that the Evil Sinner release was hard to find....... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evil+Sinner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.