Evil Bebos hails from the underground experimental scene on the outskirs of Nashville in Murfreesboro, TN. Evil Bebos creates "epic, doom-laden, ethereal post-metal" (Rock Sound, 5/2008) by blending genres such as metal, post rock, shoegaze, and psychedelic music. They draw influence from artists like Neurosis, Pink Floyd, and Isis.

The band draws from song writing techniques of the late 60s from the psychedelic movement of that era. Additionally, they pull inspiration from philosophers spanning from early skeptics such as Socrates to more contemporary writers such as Jean-Paul Sartre. Evil Bebos writes music that forms a solid conceptual base with slowly calculating movements, eventually forming a story. The band composes lengthy songs with highly conceptual ideas, primarily focusing on instrumentation, as opposed to lyrical content.

With a second record in the works, Evil Bebos has been writing and recording new songs independently. With a multimedia release planned, the band will be looking for ways to get the releases out to people since they are finishing out a one time record deal with Scared Rabbit records of Middle Tennessee State University in October. The deal helped to release the Dead Language in the way the band originally had intended complete with re-mastering and updated artwork. The album was engineered and produced by Evil Bebos and Jason Dietz (member of Today is the Day, Serotonin and Forget Cassettes) who has produced Tony Danza Tap Dance Extravaganza and Christine at Twin Oak Productions in Murfreesboro.

The members of Evil Bebos have been long time supporters of their local scene in Murfreesboro. Running DIY venues, recording bands, and booking shows around the area are some of the ways Evil Bebos participates in the local music scene. In August of 2008, the band was selected by the Nashville Cream readers to be an additional band in the Next Big Nashville Music Festival, kicking off a Saturday night showcase hosted by the Nashville Scene and Lake Fever Productions. The band continues to play venues and house shows in Murfreesboro and Nashville regularly.

Evil Bebos has independently booked several tours from the East Coast to the Midwest. In March of 2008, Evil Bebos traveled south to Austin, TX to participate in the SXSW music festival. With a successful showcase, they plan to do the same in the spring of 2009. The band was featured in the May 2008 issue of Rock Sounds magazine and included on the CD sampler. A tour for the 2008-2009 winter is being booked now, with plans of heading north to New York City and West to Chicago.

Evil Bebos is Chris Click (guitar/bass and vocals), Jeff Ehlinger (drums), Devin Lamp (synthesizer and noise), Rob McKinney (guitar and vocals), and Corey Taylor (bass/guitar and vocals). They are co-founders of the Murfreesboro artist collective, Sauce Juice, which houses Evil Bebos as well as other bands like The Ascent of Everest, Baby teeth Thieves, and the Dead Hippies; all of which share members.

Seth Graves of the Nashville Scene said that "The band transcended plodding metal-esque riffs and ventured into more visceral and ominous territory using elements of noise and faint hints of melody before diving back into a raging, guttural stupor a pattern that repeated throughout the set with outstanding results." They plan to carry that energy south into Austin, and around the country with persistent touring in support of The Dead Language in 2008 and 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evil+Bebos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.