Evilheart was formed in 1999 by Rodolfo Rogers (Drums), Raúl Borrego (Guitar), Alex Fernández (Guitar), Luis Valencia (Keyboards), César Bañuelos (Vocals) and Jorge Torres (Bass). In the summer of 2000 the band recorded the demo "Summoned To War," which was released until July 13 of 2001. After some lineup changes, Evilheart entered the studio in August of 2003 to record their debut album "Dark In Glory." The lineup was: César Bañuelos (Vocals), Ricardo Salazar (Guitar), Sergio Aréchiga (Bass) and Rodolfo Rogers (Drums). "Dark In Glory" was released in May 3 of 2004. 2004 and 2005 were very succesful years for Evilheart in which they got to share the stage with international acts like Dimmu Borgir, Amon Amarth, Deicide, Malevolent Creation, and a successful appearance at Monterrey Metal Fest, as well as Mexican bands like Hacavitz, Sarcoma, Black Torment among others. During this period Evilheart also got a new lineup: Jorge Millán (Vocals), Adrián Urías (Guitar), Luis Gastélum (Guitar), Sergio Aréchiga (Bass) and Rodolfo Rogers (Drums).

In 2006 Evilheart focused mainly in songwriting for a new album, however the band got some high profile shows with Disgorge, Asesino, Cellador, Behemoth, and Sothis. In 2007 Evilheart started the pre production for their new album "Storm Of Annihilation." During pre production Evilheart parted ways with Sergio and drafted session bass player Salvador Gallegos. The recording of the album began at the end of June, and ended in September. Then all the tracks were sent to Mana Studios (Cannibal Corpse, Hate Eternal, Vital Remains...) and they were mixed and mastered by Brian Elliott. The cover of the album was designed by Niklas Sundin at Cabin Fever Media (Dark Tranquillity, Arch Enemy...). "Storm Of Annihilation" was released on December 14. Expect 8 tracks of relentless & aggressive Blackened Death Metal... Post apocalyptic armageddon... Annihilation will never end!!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evilheart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.