Evile is a thrash metal outfit from Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, England formed in 2004.

In October of 2006 Evile signed to Earache Records, label home of well-known metal bands such as Morbid Angel, Napalm Death, Municipal Waste and Carcass.

Each band member has grown up with varying musical influences surrounding them and wanted to start up a band which played some of their favourite 80's thrash songs. founded by old school friends Matt Drake and Ben Carter, and after playing with different guitarists and bass players for a year or so, they asked Matt's brother Ol Drake to join as lead guitarist, and after a short search for a bass player they were contacted by Mike Alexander via an ad in a local guitar shop, and Evile was formed. 

They are influenced by bands such as Sepultura, Exodus, Metallica, Annihilator and Slayer to name a few. Despite being un-signed at the time, Evile were hand-picked to headline the second stage of Bloodstock Open Air 06, and also to open the main stage of Manchester's own Damnation Festival.

They released "Enter The Grave" in August 2007, following up with "Infected Nations" in September 2009. 

On October 6, 2009, bass player Mike Alexander died from a pulmonary embolism. 

The band name is pronounced "eeh-vile", according to vocalist Matt Drake.

Formed in 2004, EVILE are one of the most influential and leading thrash metal bands of the 21st century. Originally from Huddersfield, Evile have transformed the metal scene in the UK and beyond,  having released four critically acclaimed albums – Enter the Grave (2007, produced by Flemming Rasmussen), Infected Nations (2009, Russ Russell), Five Serpent’s Teeth (2011, Russ Russell) and Skull (2013, Russ Russell). Throughout their illustrious career, Evile have delivered blistering performances at numerous festivals across the globe (Wacken, Download, Alcatraz, Hellfest,  Sonisphere)  and toured with the likes of Exodus, Machine Head, Kreator, Overkill, Testament, and Megadeth. In addition, they have won numerous accolades and appeared at the Metal Hammer Golden Gods awards in 2010 alongside Steel Panther, Airbourne, Five Finger Death Punch and Skindred.

In September 2020, seven years since Evile’s last release (Skull, 2013), the band signed to Napalm Records and started recording their fifth album with producer and engineer Chris Clancy, at Andy Sneap’s Backstage Studios. The new record contract and album recording was accompanied by some line-up changes, with Ol Drake taking on fronting the band whilst continuing his role as lead guitarist, and Adam Smith (RipTide) taking over rhythm guitar duties after Matt Drake announced his departure. The thrash metal giants have announced an early 2021 release for their upcoming album, with Ol Drake promising a ‘much more aggressive vein’ to their songs, which he believes is ‘the natural progression for Evile.’ 

The new incarnation of Evile are now ready to return to the road and deliver their distinctive brand of thrash metal with a new more aggressive twist while maintaining the precise, intricate and insanely fast riffs that Evile are renowned for worldwide. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.