There are 8 bands named Evol:
1) Italian Black Metal band in Medieval style, mostly active in the 1990s.
2) Experimental Spanish group from Barcelona
3) Crossover Thrash/Speed Metal band from Los Angeles
4) Death/Grind band from Japan
5) Depressive Suicidal Black Metal band from Israel
6) South Korean girl group (이블)
7) Detroit Horrorcore Rapper (Cousin of The R.O.C.)  
8) Psychedelic folk rock band from USA

1)  Evol was a 3-piece Italian band that was created in 1993. The band described itself as a pure atmospheric black metal act. The band's style was occult and medieval ("the eve", i.e. ). Evol's tempos were rather slow. Surroundings were dark, very sad and repetitive. Keyboards were an omnipresent instrument in Evol's music, not only in use for surroundings but a large part of the melodies and were sometimes the basis of some songs. The bands sound was also distinctive by having two vocalists, the first one in a black metal style by keyboard player Giordano Bruno (Prince of Agony), the second one is the female singer Suspiria (The Princess of Disease). Guitars and drums emphasized and strengthen melodies. Guitars were played by Samael von Martin (Lord of Sorrow), who also plays flute.

They released three albums on Adipocere Records: "Saga of the Horned King" (1995),  "Dreamquest" (1996) and "Portraits" (1999). On the second album tempos are rather rapid and sometimes speed. The whole album seems less dark. Structures of the songs were more complex and the band used more original instruments and sound, even if keyboards are still omnipresent. Rhythms are more heavier, sometimes in the vein of Metallica. On Dreamquest Evol used a wide palette of vocal styles: use of various tone, gothic, death, opera, black metal, female.

2) Evol is an experimental group from Barcelona, Spain that formed in 1996. The band produces what they call "computer music for hooligans". At the core of the project is Roc Jiménez de Cisneros. Occasional EVOL members and/or collaborators include Danish composer and multi-instrumentalist Jakob Draminsky Højmark, English sound artist Joe Gilmore, Spanish writer and sound artist Anna María Ramos, British video artist Andy Davies, Berlin-based sound artist Rubén Patiño and Scottish sound artist Joel Ongthorne.

Evol's work has been released on internationally acclaimed record labels such as Mego, Lucky Kitchen, Diskono, Scarcelight, Antifrost or fals.ch.

2003 saw the birth of a series of electroacoustic pieces entitled Punani, which addresses some of the main aspects of Evol's work, namely algorithmic composition, noise, psychedelia, diverse synthesis techniques, spectro-morphology and the musical application of fractal geometry and other mathematical phenomena. The series has five parts so far. 

3) Evol also used to be a Californian speed/thrash metal band. They released a demo in 1989 and an album called Experiment in Fear in 1992. After there release they played a couple shows and had a live version of "Cyco-Self" on the metal compilation Mosh on Fire: Banned in LA. Then the following year they broke up.

4) Evol is a Japanese death-grind band. Their releases include, among other things, a split with Mortalized.

5) Evol released their first EP "E.N.D" on February 2012 through Forneus Records. 
Band members:
Forneus - Guitars, Drums, Synths
Ose - Bass Guitar
Snort - Vocals
Related projects: Ziggurath, Kaos 218. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evol">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.