EVYLTYDE are one of the United Kingdom's fastest rising metal acts combining powerful, melodic vocals with hard-hitting, edgy guitar riffs that create a unique and distinctive sound that melds numerous metal genres from thrash to gothic. EVYLTYDE bring a range of musical influences together that refuse to be pigeon-holed and blurs the boundary of what is considered modern metal.

The group was established in August 2013 by Danny Merton (guitars) and Hannah Delany (vocals) after they met while auditioning for another band. Soon after they released their first single - “Fight To Be Free” - a homage of sorts to classic British metal bands like Iron Maiden and Judas Priest and by early 2014 the band was on the road.

Later, in July 2014 EVYLTYDE released their second single “Killer”, the video for which has received almost 12,000 views on YouTube and was a popular showcase on a number of UK and international radio shows.

With a number of drummer changes in the first half of 2014, the band released their third single “Skin Deep” that October as a free download and then in early 2015 they released their self-titled debut album to outstanding reviews including an 8/10 from the UK’s POWERPLAY magazine.

In August 2016 a new era for EVYLTYDE was ushered in with the addition of two new members and by September 2016, EVYLTYDE had released their next single - “Bullet In The Head” - which still proves to be a crowd favourite at their live shows.

After a number of short UK tours EVYLTYDE returned to the studio in January 2017 to record their follow-up album “Rising” which was released worldwide in March the same year. The music video from their single “Eye For An Eye” being their most-played video reaching over 22,000 views.

Now, with the release of their third full length album - "Singularity" - EVYLTYDE have cemented their place in the UK and European metal scene and launched the next step in the band's evolution, showing their wide range of music influences but still maintaining their own unique sound with big riffs and ever bigger choruses guaranteed to get their hooks into you <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Evyltyde">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.