Formed in 1995, Ewigkeit is the experimental extreme music project of James Fogarty (aka Mr. Fog).

The purpose of Ewigkeit is to create a unique musical style within the metal genres which it experiments with, rather than copy from others. After the release of the first album Battle Furies (1997) on a short-lived Neat Records subsidiary called Eldethorn, Fogarty reputedly gave his entire music collection away to an Oxfam charity shop so that he would be free of influences creating his next work. Starscape (1999) was received well by the critical extreme music press, but label problems delayed the release of Land Of Fog, which was eventually released on Metal Age Productions. Fogarty himself regards this as the first 'proper' Ewigkeit album, and it gained him enough attention to get his project signed to the prestigious (in extreme music circles) Earache label, on which Radio Ixtlan was released in 2004, to general critical praise. 2005's Conspiritus (mixed by John Fryer), a conceptual album examining conspiracy theories, has progressed further, and has been hailed by many as marking a maturation of Ewigkeit's eclectic sound. Also in 2005, a music video was made in collaboration with film-maker Anthony Gates for the track "Its Not Reality". In 2006, EWIGKEIT made a live video recording entitled "EWIGKEIT - Live From A Bunker", which displayed the project in a live setting acting as a free "online" gig - the 25 minute set (filmed in a Nuclear Bunker in the vicinity of Brighton, England) was uploaded to google video and also recorded a free download MP3 EP Return To The Land Of Fog, all testament to the fact that EWIGKEIT were challenging the boundaries of the metal scene by adopting unorthodox methods and using/abusing & embracing the current frontiers of technology.

In December 2006, James burned all his record contracts see the video "Burn The Bastards". The statement put forth was basically "I am hereby reclaiming all my music - all labels are thieving bastards, and thankfully have been rendered impotent by the internet". WWW.DEATHTOMUSIC.COM was then launched to facilitate the exclusive release of all past EWIGKEIT material.

In January 2007, DEATH TO MUSIC Productions gave away a remastered and superior version of the 1997 debut "Battle Furies" to anybody with a modem. In two weeks, more people had heard that album than had done in the 10 years prior. In March 2007, DEATH TO MUSIC Productions re-released the 2nd Ewigkeit album 'Starscape' again for free. He has stated that he intends to eventually release all of Ewigkeit's albums via www.deathtomusic.com.

In March 2007, James "de-activated" Ewigkeit to work on the new project The Bombs of Enduring Freedom (politico-industrial electronic / metal), which produces all material for free download ; Official Facebook Profile.

In 2011, Ewigkeit was "re-activated", and work began on the new album "Back to Beyond", which is Ewigkeit's first studio release since 2005's Consipritus album.  The new album revisits the influences of the early years of the project, and is described on the press-release as "Symphonic Post-Black Metal".  The band's official website is Ewigkeit Facebook Profile.  Ewigkeit have also begun to 'restore' the first album 'Battle Furies', using the original multi-track recordings and newers instrumentation.

Label Website <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ewigkeit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.