1.) Ex Animo a Ukrainian Dark/Doom metal band was founded in early 2000s as a studio project of Andrew Lunko and Victor Kotlyarov. Inspired by the european metal music they began to write own material trying not to limit their creativity with any specific style. In 2004 they released a debut album 'Solitary' which combined elements of death, doom and gothic metal.

Shortly after the album release the guys decided to go beyond the studio project and start performing live. Search for a full live line-up had begun. In parallel, the band continued working on new material, that became more melodic and as a next logical step it was decided to try female vocals.

After more than a year of searches and rehearsals in 2006 in Kharkiv club “Fort” the band gave its first concert. During the next few years Ex Animo takes part in various gigs and festivals in Kharkiv, Kryvyi Rig and Dnepropetrovsk, while writing and collecting the material for the next album. In 2010 the EP 'Soulglass' was released. As the first record with female vocals this EP marks the beginning of a new chapter for Ex Animo and forms band’s style which now can be described as something on the edge between the dark and melodic doom metal.

Unfortunately owing to the set of personal and technical issues, recording sessions of the next full album were significantly delayed and were finished only in autumn 2014. In March, 2015, a new single called 'Shattered Universe' was presented to the audience. A little later mixing of the rest of the songs for the upcoming release was finished.

After months of looking for a publishing company in February 2016 Ex Animo signs a contract with Metal Scrap Records to release its long awaited LP “Neverday”, which will contain eight even more dramatic and heavier songs band has written for the last several years.

Currently Ex Animo has the following lineup:
Andrew Lunko - guitars, vocals;
Victor Kotlyarov - guitars;
Julia Orwell - vocals;
Evgeniy Pavlov - bass;
Aleksey Semenyakin - drums.

Latest band news can be found on www.exanimo.com.ua

2.) Ex Animo is a Hardrock/Metal band from Milan, Italy. Their songs can be found on Jamendo.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ex+Animo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.