Better known as the new breed of Texas Producers, Brett Exceed Stovall has become widely known for his skill behind the decks, impeccable track selection, and his incredible ability to build an intense crowd connection. 

This Texas born DJ has been holding down multiple residences from the age of 17 becoming a Texas favorite. From Ultra Music Festival in Florida to Nocturnal Wonderland in Texas, Exceed has taken the electronic dance music scene by storm performing at clubs, raves, and festivals nationwide. 

In 2006 he teamed up with Area 512 Entertainment and collaborated on many successful events. In 2009 he also joined the Irresponsible Voltron DJ Collective which is currently defending the universe against all that is evil every Thursday at Republic Live in Austin Tx. 

Exceed’s DJ style combines different elements of the freshest cutting edge dance music that takes you on a cross genre journey through beats per minute. When asked how does it feel to control the crowd he replied, “You got it backwards, the crowd is what controls me.” 

The young prodigy has now shared stages with exclusive acts such as: Tiesto, Rusko, The Glitch Mob, Jeremy Dawson of Shiny Toy Guns, Designer Drugs, Bad Boy Bill, Wolfgang Gartner, Steve Aoki, Le Castle Vania, LA Riots, and Infected Mushroom to name a few.

When Exceed isn’t out melting faces on the dance floor, You can find him in the studio turning out several tracks,remixes and bootlegs. The Original Mix of his first EP release “Gotta Get Up” Charted at #14 on Beatport’s Top 100 Electro Downloads. Be on the lookout for more upcoming releases and remixes on Champion Beats Records, Synth City Records, Peakhour Music and more bootlegs on various blogs.

As Exceed continues to push the limit there is no sign of slowing him down. Listen and download all of Exceed's music on Beatport or SoundCloud. Tune into to Hypersonic Radio Saturday nights on 101.5fm in Austin, TX between 10pm-12am for special guests appearances.

http://djexceed.com
http://soundcloud.com/DJExceed
http://facebook.com/ExceedMusic
http://twitter.com/ExceedOfficial <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exceed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.