Formed in early 2008, Excellent Cadaver is a 5 piece metal band from Dundee, Scotland. They play a unique brand of metal which has been described as a sound of "hurricane like force hurtling towards you at 100mph". Influence is drawn primarily from genre stalwarts such as Machine Head, Chimaira and Pantera, but with a tip of the hat to modern metalcore bands such as As I Lay Dying and Trivium. In short, if you're a fan of heavy, tuneful music that packs a punch, you're sure to love Excellent Cadaver. 

Since their live debut in August 2008, the band has shared the stage with acts such as Trivium, Chimaira, Revoker, Rise To Remain, InMe, Exit Ten and Malefice to name but a few.
Currently, the band is working on a follow up to their debut album, Faith Destroyed and are working tirelessly to spread their name. 

“Faith Destroyed” is the culmination of 18 months hard work between 5 best friends, a work the band is truly proud of. The title track and single from the album features guest vocals from none other than Chimaira’s Mark Hunter. Describing the album, guitarist and main songwriter Drew said “We worked long and hard to bring an album filled with varied tracks – no one wants an album with 12 songs that sound the same, so on ours you’ll find fast headbanging thrashers mixed in alongside slower, heavier, groove laden tracks. We like to play about with time signatures, tempo changes and mixing in different styles in the one track, anything to keep it interesting to listen to and play. We’re really excited for the world to hear what we’ve been working on and totally thrilled that Mark and Matt from Chimaira and Chuck from Dirge Within appeared on our album, their parts are killer!”

2012 was a huge success for the band, but with a prestigious main stage slot already confirmed for 2013's Les Fest (Scotland's Award Winning Metal and Rock Festival) they are looking to push that success further in 2013 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Excellent+Cadaver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.