There are multiple artists with this name:


1) Excessum was a black metal band from Sweden. They formed in 2001 and released their first demo, entitled "Oblivion" in 2003. In 2004 they recorded both the "Bleed Eternally" rehearsal tape (Bleeding Art Productions) as well as the "Death Redemption" full-lenght album (Deathstrike Records, Tour de Garde, Bleeding Art Productions), which was released in 2005. 

The last official line-up consisted of Daniel (guitars, bass, vocals), Erik (guitars) and Lars (drums). The band split up in 2007 due to the increasing will to focus on other bands. Of these Daniel's and Lars' occult post-black metal project The Ascendant could be considered the main one. But also Lars recent joining of black metal legends Marduk and Ofermod(live) and Erik's formation of the rock 'n' roll outfit Conspiracy Theory are reasons more or less worth mentioning in context of the disbandment.


2) Excessum are a 6-piece Melodic Groove Metal band based in Oxford/Swindon, United Kingdom. They formed in 2006 and are still going strong today. Their line-up consists of James Blowers (vocals), Tommy Plummer (guitar), Roman Collyer (guitar), Joe Hargreaves (synth), Adam Verney (bass), and Jamie Loddington (drums).

After updating their line-up for the final time (with the addition of Joe and Jamie in mid-2009), they have met a new direction of Melodic Groove Metal since their Metalcore days; being influenced by the likes of FellSilent, Periphery and Slipknot. 

They are currently writing new material for their debut album in par with releasing album teasers on social websites such as Myspace, Facebook and Last.fm.

3) Excessum is a thrash/groove/death metal band from Mobile, AL, USA.

Excessum formed in early 2011 with a much different line-up and no idea how bumpy the road to success really is.

The band started when guitarist, Tim Holloway and drummer, Dillon Winstanley met via a mutual friend. Although originally, the band had 2 guitarists, Zach House alongside Tim. But, because of creative differences, Zach decided to part ways with Excessum. So, with Bryant Payne on vocals (and no set bassist), Excessum started recording their first album in late 2011 on through to early 2012 and released it shortly thereafter. About a month before the band went on their first tour to promote The Battle Has Begun, Travis Hamlett was picked up to fill the role of bassist and has stuck with the band ever since. Now working on the second studio album titled To Hell We Fall, the band is now operating with Anthony Hare on vocals and going harder than ever! After just finishing their second national tour, the band now plans to soon start recording the material they have for their next album which should be released in late 2013-early 2014.

4) Excessum was a thrash death metal band from Israel. They are now known as The Fading. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Excessum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.