The German band EXCHASED combines progressive metal and elaborated melodies. This mix is used to break out of the mainstream and to give the band a very personal note. EXCHASED consists of five long experienced musicians with large musical acknowledgement who found together in the course of time to build this band.

EXCHASED was founded in 1996 when Burkhard Zeller and Peter Lützeler both played the guitar in a school band. New members were found soon and in 1997 Tobias Back joined the band as singer after the musical parts for some songs were already finished. In the same year the first gig was organised by the band: an open-air-concert in the course of a school-festival.

In 1998 the band recorded their first Demo-CD named "disclosure". David Krieger was asked to support Tobias Back on the vocals of the album. After that he joined as regular member of EXCHASED. Since then Tobias and David were both acting as frontmen, the vocals were usually arranged in two voices what became the trademark of EXCHASED in the first instance.

Midyear 2000 the Band released their first full-length Album titled "Blue Passion" which was produced completely by themselves.
Tobias Back left the Band in December 2001 to dedicate himself to project based musical works. Nevertheless new musical material was worked up to new songs by the band.
After Tobias Back left the band all vocal parts were performed by David Krieger.

Among other things this lead to a change in the musical style of EXCHASED. The band lay aside the pathetic elements in the vocals and also gothic elements disappeared from the new song material. The new focus was put on emprovment of rhythmical and progressive skills.
But the fundamental elements of new songs are still well worked out vocal melodies in conjunction with double voiced guitar parts.

The latest Album "Behind The Void" was recorded in late summer 2004 and completed in the beginning of 2005. During the recording of "Behind The Void" the band wrote a lot of new song material which had already been produced in a studio but could not be completed yet.
In January 2006 David Krieger left the band for career reasons, since then Jonas Mies takes the part as EXCHASED’s new frontman.

The new Mini-EP "Broken And Done" was recorded shortly under rehearsal room conditions to present the band’s new singer and to have a demo that’s up to date again.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exchased">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.