At least four groups have used this name:
1) A melodic death metal band from Salem, Sweden who were active from 1991 to 1996. Their first demotape, Behold The Light in 1991, was dark, heavy Swedish death metal influenced by Nihilist punctuated by soaring lead guitars. The second demo, The Dream Of Blood, 1992, is much the same style as Behold The Light with occasional acoustic flourishes, even more melodic leads, and an altogether tighter & clearer sound thanks to being recorded at Sunlight Studio. They returned to Sunlight in 1993 to record Suicide Silence, their final demo, of which the songs were re-recorded for their debut full length, Voice Of Harmony released 1995, on Wrong Again Records. Voice Of Harmony has a completely different sound from their first two demos. The CD features completely different vocals, now more like At The Gates' singer Tompa Lindberg or Eucharist's Markus Johnsson rather than the growls found on most early Swedish death metal, and the riffs are very melodic and far softer than what was heard before, again similar to Eucharist and At The Gates.

Last known line-up:
Thomas Wahlström - Vocals, bass
Anders Hanser - Guitars
Christoffer Holm - Guitars
Tommy Ottemark - Drums

2) A folk punk band formed in 2006 in Arlington, Texas. The lineup consisted of Benny, Owen, Nik, and sometimes Zak. The group recorded and printed several releases during their tenure, most notably the full-length album What Will It Take? in 2007. Excretion played their last show in 2008. Members have fronted or contributed to a number of other bands and projects, including Commander Fear and the ArgoNOTs, Serious Business, and Division of Power.

3) Grindcore/death metal band from California. Released a demo in 1992 called Excrements 92. Splitup.
Lineup:
Dave Garcia - Drums, Percussion
Jason Ogle - Vocals, Guitars
Rob Hatten - Vocals, Guitars 

4) Death metal band from USA. Probably formed in the 2000s. Not much is known about them, they released a few songs on the internet.
Known lineup (partial):
Eric Matranga - Guitars
Mike Cosio - Bass
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Excretion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.