EXELOUME from Trondheim plays a thrash largely inspired by American thrash and death metal from the early nineties. They released their first album "Fairytale of Perversion" through ViciSolum Productions in May 2011. The album has received excellent reviews in both Norwegian and international press, including 9 / 10 in Metal Hammer Norway and 5 / 6 in Norwegian daily paper. Consisting of members with experience from Pica Fierce, Maelstrom, Manifest and Griffin with more, this is a solid bunch with far more experience than the band's young age would suggest. 

Contact: booking@vicisolum.com

"Un album fantastique !"
- Soil Chronicles

"A thrash metal jewel, this is recommended to fans of technical thrash metal... It's awesome!".
- (4,5/5) – Metal Music Archives

"There are no weak moments here, nor things that could be done in a better way".
- (9/10) – Metal Guide.com

‎"...personally I'm going to count "Fairytale Of Perversion" as one of the highlights of 2011".
- ( 9,5/10) Metal-observer

"Fairytale Of Perversion is one of the top 5 Thrash albums to be released this year..."
- (5/5) Planetary Sanctum

During summer/autumn 2010 the band recorded their debut album produced Rune Stavnesli (Keep of Kalessin) and mixed/mastered by Dan Swanö. The album also features gueast appearances by Andy
LaRoque (King Diamond and Dan Swanö. The artwork was created by Ed Repka who has created album art for Death, Atheist and Megadeth.

In february 2011 they signed a deal with the Swedish label ViciSolum Production as the first non-Swedish band, and the debut album was released Friday 13th of May 2011.

Line-up:
Øystein Haltbakk – vocal
Tom ‘Welhaven’ Wahl: guitar
André Ulriksen: lead guitar
Johnny Wangberg: bass
Alessandro Elide:drums

Produced by Rune Stavnesli (Keep of Kalessin) and mixed/mastered by Dan Swanö, the album features guest appereances from Andy LaRoque of King Diamond and Dan Swanö ex-Edge of Sanity. The artwork was created by Ed Repka, who has created artwork for Death, Atheist and Megadeth.

Contact: booking@vicisolum.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exeloume">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.