1. Exhaust is a bass, drum and tape trio that crashed through various Montreal venues in a series of semi-controlled explosions during the mid-90s, starting with a self released cassette album called "230596" in 1996 and followed with an early vinyl release on Constellation appearing in 1998 (issued on CD two years later). As other projects began to dominate the players’ schedules, Exhaust have played only sporadically since 1999 but re-grouped in the summer of 2001 for a short tour and month-long cabin retreat, where their second album was recorded. 

Aidan Girt (drums) mashes up beats and samples with his 1-Speed Bike alter-ego, was drafted by Godspeed You! Black Emperor in 1996, and has now settled in a cabin in the woods after a couple of years spent splitting his time between Montreal and Amsterdam. 

Mike Zabitsky (tapes) was a sound recordist for film and amateur brewmeister before starting his own brew pub in Montreal in 2002. He is currently renovating a building using poured-concrete molds. 

Gordon Krieger is a sound artist who has worked with improvised shortwave signals in Radio Orchestra, music for Mac voice, and an ongoing erased tape project. He continues to work for CBC Radio’s Brave New Waves. 

2. Exhaust are a Brutal death Metal band from the USA, composed of the members Eli and Jeremiah from Backstreet Abortion in Santa Fe. The duo joined up with Exhaust in '95 after moving from Santa Fe, NM to south Florida. 

The band became a four piece duo with a drum machine, Erik and Jeff, and started recording and playing live. However, after a couple of years and a few more underground release, the band split up because Eli decided he wanted to move away and Jeremiah moved back to southern California 6-7 months later.

Erik was already involved in Demonic Orgy, playing out live with the bands Swamp Gas and Vomit Spawn. Uterus was formed in 1998 as a side project with Erik and Jeff because the two were death metal brothers. Uterus had the same sound as Exhaust but with grinding blast beats and shorter song times. Uterus became full time when Demonic Orgy split up.

3. Exhaust (stylized as exhaust.) were an emo/post-hardcore band from Birmingham, Alabama in the mid 90s. They self-released a self-titled album in 1994 and a split 7" with Tomorrow in 1995 on Blacksmith Records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exhaust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.