There are two bands that have used the name "Exhibition".

1) Eternity X - a promising progmetal band from New Jersey, disbanded in 1998 after releasing two albums on Angular Records and a short European tour. From the ashes arose the band EXHIBITION formed in November of the same year by Jeff Shernov (Guitar), Jamie Mazur (keyboards) and Jimmy Peruta (drums). The primary aim of the experienced musicians was to produce a symbiosis of 80s Metal (Judas Priest, Ozzy Osbourne, Iron Maiden) and Prog-Rock/Metal (Dream Theater, Rush, Fates Warning).

In order to realize this vision, however, they needed yet more competent support which they found in the persons of Brett Rome (bass) and Bobby "Leather Lungs" Lucas (vocals). Brett Rome had already made a name for himself as composer for solo artists and for radio jingles in New Jersey. Bobby Lucas, on the other hand, is the voice behind the very popular cult metal band SEVEN WITCHES and as a songwriter has played a huge role in the band's success.

EXHIBITION celebrated their debut gig at the renowned Powermad Festival 2000 in Baltimore. Shortly before they had visited the Sound Spa Studios to record a 3 track demo which was highly acclaimed by the international press. Several German magazines such as Heavy, oder was!? (10 out of 12 points), Metal Heart (9 out of 10 points) and Rock Hard (which included a song on their "Unerhört" compilation CD) praised EXHIBITION as being the new star in Prog metal heaven. A gig supporting Ratt attracted the attention of the radio station, WRAT and the result was a regional radio hit in the form of 'Shattered Memories'.

After several more shows with Savatage and Fates Warning the band returned to the Sound Spa Studios in June 2001 to record six more songs. The ensuing twelve months were filled with numerous intensive live shows and time-consuming discussions with several record companies before they finally decided on Limb Music Products in April 2002. All nine songs they had already recorded were used on this debut album, after they had been newly mixed by Eric Rachel in the Trax East Studios. Like the pictures in an art gallery, every EXHIBITION song has its own unmistakable character and makes a clear statement.

2) EXHIBITION is an electronic band from Los Angeles, California. Having started out as a duo of Sean Niles and Andrew Wilson, EXHIBITION added Darren Burgos of Psychoid and Steva Reno of Rhino Records in 2003. They have recorded with several electronic musicians, including Steve Bronski of Bronski Beat and Susan Ottoviano of Book Of Love.

The band are inspired by punk/new wave music such as Blondie, David Bowie, Kraftwerk and New Order, as well as gothic and industrial music such as Clan of Xymox, Skinny Puppy, NIN and KMFDM.

EXHIBITION released their debut album "Uninhibited" in 1999. Later that year they opened for Marc Almond of Soft Cell during his "Open All Night" tour. These shows exposed the band to a large and loyal following of electronic synth music lovers. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exhibition">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.