There are five artists with this name - 

1] Exhumation was a Greek Death Metal band, formed back in January 1990 in Thessaloniki, northern Greece.
After having released two demo-tapes –“The Rebirth” and “Deepest Side Of Fear”- they signed with well known Danish Metal label Diehard Music/Emz.In 1996 they recorded their debut album in the highly acclaimed Unisound Studios in Sweden with producer extraordinaire Dan Swano. The outcome was “Seas Of Eternal Silence” and the band took off right away with its incredible melodies, sheer brutality and elegant compositions. The sound of Exhumation on this opus can only be described as the perfect match of speed and melody. After that the band was ready to take one step further. They concentrated on writing new material for their next album. This time around, their choice of preference was the legendary Fredman Studios in Gothenburg/Sweden with production mastermind Fredrik Nordstrom. During the recording sessions the band did a cover of Sepultura’ s “Territory” which was included on the compilation tribute album “Sepultural Feast” released on Black Sun Recs.At that time the band was free to negotiate a new term record deal and among other offers they signed with French label Holy Recs. On the fall of ’98 their second album “Dance Across The Past” was released. The band matured as individuals and as musicians. The songwriting of the album reached another level introducing new elements of melancholy and eerie feelings. This time the sound was more tight, more in -your- face with guitar madness reigning all over!The album was also licensed in Japan, on Avalon/Marquee, and in a short time Exhumation became Holy Record’s top selling band in Japan. Exhumation’s growing reputation led to their invitation to perform live at Greece’s premier outdoor “Rockwave” festival, during the summer of 1999 alongside Immortal, Sodom, Manowar and Mercyful Fate!In the mean time, the band had a whole album’s worth of material prepared and August 1999 found them in Gothenburg/Sweden recording their third album. Once again the man behind the console was none other than Fredrik Nordstrom, this time in the new Fredman Studio. Exhumation returned with “Traumaticon”, a concept album about the mankind mind confusion and psychological trauma. The new songs are now faster, more brutal and the production was rawer than ever with its high quality sound. Remaining are the eerie feelings of melancholy and sorrow, adding to that, straightforwardness and inner rage which sums up the latest delivery from the Dancers Of The Past.

2] Exhumation is a Brutal Death Metal band based in the city of Mumbai in India.
In 2005, they released a full length album titled "Among The Dead", which was put for free download on their site and is now available on last.fm

In 2006, they made their second record, a ear-shattering mix of brutal death metal and blasting goregrind, 'For Personal Consumption Only', which was released as a part of Defaced And Split, India's first death metal split album released by Demonstealer Records. 2011 saw the release of the much awaited 'Consider This' which is the band's best offering till date.

Current Line - Up

Aditya Mehta - Vocals
Prashant Shah - Guitars
Rohit Pereira - Bass
Yash Pathak - Drums


Band's coming out with a new album entitled ' Consider This ' soon this year. Watch Out For It ! 
And our old album's still available for free download , so do check it out.

Exhumation on MySpace http://www.myspace.com/exhumationindia
Facebook http://www.facebook.com/pages/EXHUMATION-India/113450685347157?ref=ts

3) Exhumation is a Melodic Death band from St. Petersburg, Russia (since 1994)
http://exhumation.ru
http://www.myspace.com/exhumationspb

4) Exhumation is Epic Death Metal band from Yogjakarta, Indonesia. The band have released their debut album "Hymn To Your God" on March 2012.

http://exhumation.bandcamp.com/

5) Exhumation are a Death Metal Band from Merseyside, England.

https://www.facebook.com/ExhumationBand <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exhumation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.