There are multiple artists called Exhumed, all death metal bands. There are three from the United States (San Jose, California; Easthampton, Massachusetts; Santa Ana, California), one from France, and at least one from Sweden (later renamed Morpheus). 

The best known Exhumed is a Grindcore / Death Metal band from San Jose, CA.

Formed in 1991, when sole remaining founding member Matt Harvey was at the tender age of 15, Exhumed spent much of the ensuing decade hacking its way through numerous demos, split CDs, and EPs. The band finally recorded their debut album, the genre-(re)defining and critic-repulsing "Gore Metal" in 1998. The album crystallized the old-school Death Metal meets full-on Grindcore sound forged during the recordings of their last demo and first split CD ("Horrific Expulsion of Gore" and "In the Name of Gore"). 

This led to the band's first US tour and festival appearances (their only previous out of California shows had been nine dates in central Europe in 1997 supporting "In the Name of Gore"). The band continued to morph line-ups with the release of the back-to-basics sophomore record "Slaughtercult" in 2001. The album blatantly blended the band's brutal cult-thrash influences into its sonic meat-grinder. This album allowed the band to do three US tours, and their first proper European tour, including co-headlining festivals like Fuck the Commerce and Obscene Extreme. The band also appeared at the Wacken Open Air festival. 

The band evolved further with their third album, 2003's "Anatomy is Destiny" which added more sophisticated arrangements, production and instrumentation into the Gore Metal formula. Bassist Leon del Muerte replaced Bud Burke soon after the album was recorded.

After the departure of the band's co-founder, drummer Col Jones, the band issued a massive 2CD compilation of their early recordings, appropriately dubbed "Platters of Splatter." 

After touring America, Canada, Europe, Japan and Australia the band realigned its personnel yet again, resulting in the departure of long-time guitarist Mike Beams and the recruitment of new six-stringer Wes Caley and drumer Matt Connell. The "new and improved" Exhumed has completed recording an album of cover songs entitled "Garbage Daze Re-Regurgitated." 

After a six year hiatus, Exhumed reunited with a different drummer, Danny Walker, to bring the 2011 release of 'All Guts, No Glory.' The new release was met with much praise from critics and a global tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exhumed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.