There is more than one artist with this name: 

1. EXISTENCE is the name of a project founded by Margot Reisinger. It joins worldmusicians from different styles and cultures to find a musical expression for unity, hope, peace and freedom for all mankind. With great insight, technical skill and creative cooperation Existence creates organic new music. Thus the fascination and attraction between different cultures, styles and tempers brings forth a unique variety of musical masterpieces:

Qi•Chi•Ki - A meditative voyage to the Far East, exploring the source of vital energy and concentration

Like A Shot Through The Heart - A new and very personal path into the spirit of the Native American culture

Dahmani - The splendour and magic of an Oriental journey

TIBET
Heart - Beat - Meditation - Mystic beats and sacred Mantras expressing the poweful and alife Spirit of Tibet

INDIA - Music For Inner Balance
A meditative passge to India, the holy land of spiritual endeavour, saints and miracles, rituals and retreat!
A wonderful background for Yoga, Relaxation, Massage, Meditation and much more...

PLANETARY HEALING - a musical voyage through the depth of our magnificent solar system

MANTRA - Nine deeply touching world music compositions based on ancient Mantras from all over the World


2. Existence is the Emo-metalcore band from Czech Republic. They was formed in 1993 in Litoměřice. They released 3 demo records "Náhlá ztráta mysli" - 1993, "I.A.O." - 1995, "Jim samý jedovatý věci…" - 1997, and 3 CD singles "Vítejte…!" - 1999, "existence.zde.cz" - 2003, "Na Křídlech Draků" - 2004/2005. In the past they had crossover genre of their music, presently they are emocore/psychedelick or something like that. They had personal changes in the band (finding new guitarist). Since July 2002, they have been playing in this composition:

Tootcha - drums
Kash-py - el.guitar
Ton-X - vocals
T.L. achnov - el. bass
Hynee.cz - samplitudes, keyboards, sax, back vocals

3.)Existence as in the metal/grindcore/hardcore band that did "The Darkest Light" album (taken from their myspace site):

"Existence was formed in 1999 in Reno, Nevada. Over the course of the last seven years Existence has released two full length cd's of their own entitled "A HIGHER FORM OF HATRED" in 2000 and "THE DARKEST LIGHT" in 2002. We have also released three songs on a BattledScarred records compilation entitled "4 WAY DEATH MATCH" with Sworn Vengeance, Hostility, and Ex-Inferis in 2004. Existence also appeared on the Cali comp "ASEND THE DARKNESS" and distroed 12,000 copies of another song through tower records on the CHORD RECORDS/TOO DAMN HYPE sampler. We are currently recording a new full length cd and will have it finished by June 2006. This looks to be our best effort yet as the band is in the best shape musically that we have ever been. Our goal is simple: To destroy everything and everyone with our music. We have been described as Mathcore, Destrction Metal and Insane. We take pride in integrating technical aspects of our writing with fundimental perameters of Metal to create a unique sound of our own. Existence is lucky to have a wide and solid fan base in Reno, Nevada and up and down the West coast. We have shared the stage with many national acts such as BENUMB, SEVERED SAVIOR, IMPAILED, DECEMBER, FALL SILENT, ANIMOSITY, SWORN VENGEANCE, THE HOODS, HOSTILITY and many others. We have also played legendary venues such as GILLMAN STREET, THE PHOENIX THEATRE, THE SENATORS THEATRE, THE POUND, BURNT RAMEN STUDIOS and many others. Many upcoming shows and new cd in summer 06. ------ Here is what POWERSLAVE.COM had to say about us: "Band number two to hit the Phoenix stage was the rather impressive hardcore influenced sound from Reno, NV based Existence. Featuring a younger line-up and a full five members, Existence simply provides a chaotic, straight ahead speed driven, hardcore laced sound that was both buzzed and coherent. The crowd, apparently most of which had never seen this band before, tied into their sound by midway through their set and created some commotion on the floor. On stage, the band performed a selection of tunes, several of which appear on their latest recording "The Darkest Light". Their set included "Fearless" which offered a heavy chug to open and utilized an up and down sloped riff structure and "How Far Is Too Far" which featured a four step riff and some quick tremolo type picking. Existence seems to stick to a somewhat brutal and basic premise, moving the sound at sometimes such a blinding speed that the overall tone coming off the stage was simply one big ball of fuzzed out heavy hardcore. The throaty vocals picked the speed apart at times while remaining at their own pace at others, providing a good combination. Occasionally, with so much going on in their sound, the overall package seemed a bit loose with guitars bouncing all over the spectrum. Still, for pure sickness of riff and a full frontal brutality, Existence did it well, rivaling the last band of the night's reign as one of the more angry and brutal bands in the region". - POWERSLAVE.COM"

4. Existence is also a classic rock band hailing from Kurikka, finland. They have some own songs but mostly on gigs, they play covers including Stairway to heaven, Sweet Home Alabama and infamous cliche´, Paranoid.

5.Existence was the four-year solo project of one Allen Ashley Lucas. His ambitions were more "acoustic psychedelic" than punk, and while inspiration came partly from the DIY movement the major influence was Allen's lifelong love affair with Hawkwind (much more evident on the B-side). Lucas and occasional collaborator Jenny Yeatman traveled to Woodbine Studios in Royal Leamington Spa, where they enlisted a session drummer and The Specials' Sir Horace Gentleman on bass ...resulting in the song's rather remarkable extended cadenza (after they ran out of lyrics). (Note also Jenny's quite extraordinary vocal range.) After the 45, Lucas had poems and music reviews published in Hawkfrendz fanzine, and performed live with them in 1988, reciting/singing selections from his poem "The Space Cycle". As Allen Ashley he's become a celebrated sci-fi/ fantasy/ slipstream short-story writer and novelist (and lyricist for Foul House). He edited a collection of short stories, The Elastic Book of Numbers, which won the British Fantasy Society's 2006 Best Anthology award. www.allenashley.com  (taken from www.hyped2death.com)

6. Existence is a power metal band from Germany. They have released 3 full-length albums so far.

7. Existence is a melodic hardcore/metal band from PA and NJ. Their debut ep, Misanthropy is out now. http://www.facebook.com/ExistenceNJ

8. Existence, an ambitious progressive rock band, was formed in Quebec by Alan Charles (guitar, vocals, keyboards) who had been writing a concept album for years with his previous band. In 1991 he enlisted bassist Serge Delisle and his band in a his prog rock concept proejct. Although Charles had dreamed of a group that would be nameless and only known by the project they were working on, the rest of the new group voted down this idea, and the band took on the name of their current project, Existence. The next couple of years would see lineup shifts, but the group was able to complete the second half of the material to Charles' story. Soon Existence was performing the entire 90 minute concept in concert. In 1994 the group released the grand Fragile Whisperings of Innocence, the first half of the concept piece on record. Although the recording sessions were fraught with problems and the sound was not completely to Charles' liking, the record received a decent reception on college radio stations. The band then began a tour, but exhausted from the recording sessions, Delisle and drummer François Labelle both left the group. The band continued on, replacing the two lost members with Bruno Tessier and Alain Quesnel. Existence broke up in 1996 with the band wanting to go in different directions. Charles was soon writing new material though and with a new band recorded the EP, Another Fine Day Of... (1998) to see what the response would be. With an outpouring of interest from radio stations, Charles then reformed Existence as a group of freelance musicians working under his and with a reformed band, recorded Existence's second album, Small People, Short Story, Little Crime (1999).

9. Existence is a Swedish hardcore band with a stylistic attack similar to Dmize and Breakdown. Existence's debut EP, Into the Furnace, will be out on June 16, 2018 via Quality Control HQ. That same weekend, the band will be performing at this year's Outbreak Fest in Leeds, England. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Existence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.