Death/Thrash band Existing Threat formed in 2003 and came from the Newry area of Northern Ireland with recently relocating to Belfast . The founders of Existing Threat are vocalist Dave Connolly, and John McSherry (guitars). Taking their inspiration from bands like DEATH, KREATOR, SLAYER and MORBID ANGEL the band worked tirelessly to create their own sound and material. 

The band played throughout Northern Ireland during 2004 and even briefly appeared in the BBC TV programme ATL TV which featured the band on the Northern Ireland metal scene. During the Autumn of 2004 the band recorded and released their first demo ‘Blood Drenched Heaven’ and continued to tour into mid-2005. 

The bands second offering was to be the EP ‘Hostile Ground’ . Recorded in January 2006 at Komodo Studios ‘Hostile Ground’ has attracted some very encouraging reviews from the likes of well known Metal Magazine ‘Terrorizor’ . This also secured a place on Ireland Underground Movement 2006 release ‘Intoxicated 4’ along side Abbadon Incarnate, Mass Extinction and Ground of Ruin. The band continued gigging on the strength of the new material, culminating in opening for death metal legends OBITUARY in Dublin on June 15th 2006. 

Existing Threat went into the writing process in late 2007 - early 2008 to begin work on what will become their first album “Summoned by the Ancients”. A line-up change and a few months later and the writing was complete. With a few live shows under the bands belt supporting Wolf chant (Germany), Savage Messiah (England) in Glasgow and performing on the last leg of Godhate (Sweden) ‘Back in Blasphemy 09’ World Tour, as well as a few local and Scottish dates, Existing Threat were ready to enter the studio. They entered ‘The Oaks Studio’ Enniskillen during the summer of 2009 to lay down the album. After the recording Existing Threat carried on with a few bigger local shows while mixing and mastering the upcoming album. 

‘Summoned by the Ancients’ is scheduled for release in April 2010 while on tour with Germanys Common Grave. Also with headlining local shows, Scottish shows, a full scale UK tour, continental and Asian dates set to confirm 2010 was a busy year for the band

As of 2011 a UK tour with Necrotize, Threshold Sicks lies ahead, as well as a support show with Bonesaw in Early March

Current Lineup:
Dave Connolly: Vocals
John McSherry: Guitar
Steve Hobson: Bass
Phil Crane: Drums

http://www.myspace.com/existingthreat <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Existing+Threat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.