Nikky Sriamin: Vocals
Arrie ten Wolde: Bass
Robbert Zuiderveen: Guitar
Ronald Lukken: Guitar
Douwe Talma: Drums

Throw in some melodic metal, catchy pop riffs, pure raw emotions and a group friends who just love to have fun and play music and you get Existence Denied. Hailing from the northern parts of the Netherlands these guys are ready to play throughout the world and get some pits going.

Constantly looking for the right artists to work with, Robbert Zuiderveen (guitar) and Arrie ten Wolde (bass) came a long way before they met the people who form the power Existence Denied is today. After their first demo they started searching for professional musicians and found a haven in guitar player Ronald Lukken (Elexorien). The powerful screams and beautiful emotion laden vocals of Nikky Sriamin (Noir) empowered the band on their second demo. After a long time of searching the band finally met their new drummer: Douwe Talma (Enraged, Mortuary IOD). The band is stronger than ever and ready to play some melodic metal for the masses.

With this formation, Existence Denied launched their 3-track promo entitled: “Nightmares and Daydreams”. Older work of them can be heard on the 2006 promo: “All in Despair”. In the summer of 2009, the band was the opener for the Waldrock festival, the biggest metal gathering in the Netherlands. They shared the stage with bands such as Dragonforce, Napalm Death and Legion of the Damned.



Highlights
Opener Waldrock ‘09
Winer Frysian Metal Battle ‘09
MCD ‘Nightmares and Daydreams ‘08
MCD ‘All in Despair ‘06
Finalist Rode Oortjes ‘06




Rock Tribune:
“The mix of different musical styles is an extreme asset. Lots of tempo changes, nice breaks and well performed guitar solo’s.”

Zware Metalen ‘09
“The songs burst with exciting guitar riffs and solos, which vary from aggressive to melodic. Existence Denied is ready for the real stuff.”


Zware Metalen ‘06
“Swedish melodies, pumping heavy metal, badass pieces and enough space for rest moments create exciting song structures.”
FRET Popmagazine
“This band is more than a representative for the hard stuff. Heavy passages vary with tranquil pieces, in which the vocals tend to be more poppy than metal.”

Lords Of Metal:
“Existence Denied features talented musicians who know how to write good songs.”

3voor12:
“Existence Denied’s melodic metal is like a spunge: it absorbs something from all metal genres and then unleashes it on the audience. A heavy metal-solo which progresses into a ballad on the bass which increases it’s tempo with the growls of vocalist Nikky.” 
www.ExistenceDenied.com
www.myspace.com/existencedeniedband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Existence+Denied">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.