Just as darkness was made for the wolf, and the wolf was made for the moon, forever hers in a lonely howl, in the same way, libido became a nocturnal expression that, in the flesh, became song. This was the genesis of the first notes of a 2004 music project in Mexico City. Previous independent works helped form Karla’s and Σ’s characters; but destiny had planned for their souls to meet and together embark upon a music adventure.

From 2005 and up to 2007, planet Earth saw Karla’s and Σ’s movements. She saw them traveling through Europe and the US at separate times, looking for musical enrichment, taking in all the concepts of the world scene. And at the beginning of 2008, Σ gives birth to his first, complete musical work: Midnight Passion. The need to find the perfect vocal component helps him realize that Karla’s voice is the perfect match, and decides to seek her out. The project’s flame had been rekindled.

Karla studied classical singing and flute in the National School of Music. She took lessons with Sasha Shoeler at the University Of Berlin, during her time in Germany She is currently taking contemporary singing lessons with Eddy Robson, one of Seth Riggs’s pupils. Through her experience in several bands, she developed a taste for metal that, together with her studies, has resulted in the merge of two styles within the same person.

As for Σ, he’s traveled through a wide spectrum of genres. Music runs through his veins, he descends from a long line of musicians; but his talent for mastering all kinds of musical instruments was passed on to him by his grandfather, one of the founders of the “Violins of Villafontana” and the conductor of several orchestras. Σ has dedicated his time to work exclusively on his music which has translated into a virtuoso performance in the world of music composition.

Metal? Goth Rock? ΣXoluta has no intention to be typecast, they want their music to be felt, not thought of, though in the Netherlands, ΣXoluta has been referred to as a Symphonic Metal Band. Every rhythm is enhanced by the orchestra instruments through a metal and percussion infused emphasis that becomes a violent cry, colored by the weeping of the strings and the sighing. Each piece has the full power of all the instruments in a symphonic orchestra, combined with the energy of the two pedals in the battery, the accentuated bass and the distorted guitars.

An eclectic use of instruments yields a homogenous mix of original rhythms, the mezzo soprano’s voice stands out through the simplicity of the lyrics which are, not a strange fantasy of the surreal imagination, but life experiences expressed in poetry.

After all this intense work, after the full-time commitment, and after giving their own existence to the project, they came up with their first EP, named ‘Time & Existence’. This EP expresses ΣXoluta’s passion for this project. During the official launch, only 50 collector’s copies were issued. They were successfully sold around the world. This material can already be heard on the internet and European radio stations. ΣXoluta has gained attention on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean; they already have followers in Amsterdam and Berlin.

Today, ΣXoluta is preparing their first complete Studio album. This album promises to take us to the artist’s mysterious world. The material will be available in stores this fall and they will soon perform in several cities.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/EXoluta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.