Back in 1999 , The acquaintance and relationship between Mohammad Parvizi and Soheil Zarrin Kelk was the Beginning of Explode's birth. 

Soheil and Mohammad Found out that they've got same musical taste and the influences that made them to start playing Guitar are the same. Both of them loved Heavy/Thrash Metal music and playing in a metal band was their only dream. Addition of farhad Qarakhani and later Hesam Afshar as a bass player made them a trio without a drummer. In the Summer of 2003 Reza Tasooji  joined the band and the long wait ended! He was a talented Drummer and always on his toes for the ride! 

The band spent the whole 2003 on writing new materials for their long-awaited demo-tape! and after completing it with 6 Songs, they began to record in their home studio, The result was their first album called "Temptation", Released on 2005. Temptation is a EP in the style of 80s Thrash Metal music with mostly Persian lyrics. Temptation was on the web for free for a while and it got many positive reviews from Metal websites and weblogs and some harsh reviews from other parts of metal fans. As a first album It was a good experience for them.

After recording and releasing Temptation, The band returned to writing new songs and jamming sessions more seriously, and after around a year of jamming sessions and writings the band finally felt ready for recording the second album. Recording Sessions started in November 2007.

During the Recording session due to some personal problems, "Hesam Afshar" left the band and after auditioning some new bass players the band Started to work with "Arjang Gharib" as a new bass player since July 2008. The new album is more in progressive/thrash metal music vein and the lyrics are in english. explode now tries to release this album and is in searching for a label for releasing their new material. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Explode">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.