The band was born in July of 1999 with the clear intention to bring back the main characteristics from the scene of its State in the beginning of 90s: bands with a musical proposal focus in extreme sonority aggression. Expose Your Hate was also a join of forces from different musicians coming from early local bands like Insane Death, Sanctifier, and Hellspawn. You will see that the band finds its own musical influences directly on death metal and grindcore, blending for sure with the influences that each member has, without any compromisse with labels of definitions for the bands music. In March of 2001 with the following line-up: Luis Claudio (vocal), Claudio Slayer (bass), Alexandre Emerson (guitar) e Victor Fabio (drums) the band recorded its first demo called "In god we crush" With seven tracks, this work got a great recognition inside and outside Brazil. Right on august/2002 the guitar Alexandre decided to left Expose Your Hate to go with his other band, Sanctifier. For its position the band find another guitar that also plays in PRIMORDIUM called Fernando Lima, so the band could keep the track and working hard. The band has a lot of opportunity to share the stage with great brazilian bands like Krisiun, Torture Squad, Nervochaos, Nephasth, Drowned and also being the open act for bands like Incantation and the polish guys from Vader during their passage in Brazil. The lyrics are based always in a critic position against the hateful and chaotic reality that we are facing right now. During august of 2004 the band finished the recording of its debut cd called HATECULT. This cd has 17 tracks that show all the inner hate for the hypocrisy of this modern word. This material saw the daylight in 2005 thru BLACK HOLE PRODUCTIONS and being mastered by Mieszko T. (Nasum, Exhumed, Regurgitate, etc..) and the sad storie on that episode was for sure the death of Mieszko on Tsunamis days after finishing this mastering and HATECULT was without any doubt his very own last work. Right after the releasing of the cd, the drummer Victor Fabio was replaced by Felipe Nolla(OUTSET, ex-NIGHTBREATH). Right on May/2006 the guitar Flávio França (OUTSET) is the new menber in line-up like second guitar player. After two years working with the band, Felipe Nolla decide to left Expose Your hate and was replaced in November/2007 by Marcelo Costa (SANCTIFIER). 

HATE-MAIL (and MSN): 
exposeyourhate@hotmail.com 

MYSPACE: 
www.myspace.com/exposeyourhate

OFFICIAL SITE: 
http://www.exposeyourhate.com.br  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Expose+Your+Hate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.