This group started in 1999 with the desire of finding and exploring an authentic style of music. This musical suggestion combines different kind of music such as dark, gothic, ambient, heavy metal, black metal, speed, doom metal among others; created with theoretical principles of classical music in all the periods (middle age, renaissance, baroque, classical, romantic and modern music). For such, they made use of orchestral and electric instruments.

Exsecror Vecordia is formed by eight members who study classical music, mostly of them at “Escuela Superior de Música de Bellas Artes (INBA- CNA)" and "Escuela Nacional de Música (UNAM)”. All of them have had an outstanding development both in the Rock wave movement as in classical performances in México.

Among their goals, this assemble have created original music for movies such as "Nosferatu" (F. Murnau 1922) and "Otro Ladrillo en la Pared" (E. Avendaño 2003) live music for Theatre and Ballet ,“Infernalia XIII” Dir. Mario Cruz, besides music for 12 pictures at “Expo UACM”, and they have also musicalized a Comic,“La Hora Novena” (which is based on Exsecror Vecordia itself), by Odeloth studios.

Furthhermore, they have shared stage with many important international bands like: Lacrimas Profundere, Hocico, Haggard, Shokora, Blood, The Last Dance, Rata Blanca, To Die For, Leave..s eyes, Atrocity, Transmetal, Clan of Xymox, among others.

Exsecror Vecordia try to combine Happiness in sadness, heaven in hell and viceverse. All this is Exsecror Vecordia, the wrath in a beautiful instrument as the violin, and sweetness and compassion in the horrible grounds.



Gloria -- Soprano

Dream -- Guitarra, Bajo y Coros -- Electric guitar, 6 string bass & chorus

Lust -- Guitarra y Vocales -- Electric guitar & vocals

Demencia -- Bajo, Guitarra Clásica y Teclados -- 6 string bass, acoustic guitar & keyboards

Silos -- Batería -- Drums

Nina -- Corno Francés -- French horn

Simurgh -- Clarinete y Guturales -- Clarinet & grounds

Gerard -- Violín y Viola




Discografia:


Exsecror Vecordia. Demo. 2000

Ciudades Subterraneas. Acoplado. 2001

El Concilio de los Angeles. (Concilio proas, Puebla) Acoplado. 2002

Exsecror Vecordia, en Vivo. Coacalco. 2003

Metallic Force. Acoplado. 2003

Concurso Chibrás Mexico. Acoplado. 2004

“Nosferatu, Sionfonìa del terror” En vivo, Teatro Helènico. 2004

Exsecror Vecordia. (TOAJ Records) 2004

Legado 0 (La Orden del Cister) Acoplado. 2005

"Revista Gótica 1" Acoplado 2006

Legado II. Acoplado. 2007

"Nosferatu, sinfonía a la demencia" En vivo. 2008

Carpe Noctem, Sampler Vol. 1. Acoplado. 2009 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exsecror+Vecordia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.