It was 1988 when Paul Folk met Rodney Day and they formed a band under the moniker "The Deceased", and then later changed to "Mortis Death" in 1989. Meeting new Drummer Brian Muir in 1990 they changed the name once again, this time to Exterminance; and the story begins. The Line up Paul Folk - Guitar, Rodney Day - Bass/Vocals - Brian Muir - Drums recorded their first demo in 1990; the demo was titled "Reign of Darkness" and featured 9 tracks of primitive metal, more like Viking metal leaning towards Death Metal. Influenced by bands like Hell Hammer, Bathory, Celtic Frost, Death, Obituary, DBC, Napalm Death, The Accused, DRI, Infernal Majesty, Testament, Bolt Thrower, etc… Exterminance was out to make a name for themselves. Through underground tape trading and Fanzines they were making a buzz for themselves by their second Demo release in 1991 titled, "Environmental Execution". 1992 saw the release of a Demo entitled "Hatred Knows No Discrimination", and saw various tracks released on many underground samplers and compilations as well as a lot of radio play on college radio metal programs. From 1992 through 1994 they were traveling in various areas (MD, PA, NY, NJ, CT, MA, VA) and playing shows with bands like Mass Psychosis, Deceased, Dying Fetus, Morbius, Mortal Decay, Damonacy, Vision of Disorder, Exmortis, Next Step Up, Internal Bleeding, Human Remains, and many more underground bands. In 1993 they recorded the track, "Vomiting the Trinity" for a split 7" with NJ's Mass Psychosis released through Shredomatic Records & KSB Productions. In 1994 they recorded 3 tracks at Pittsburgh's Audiomation Studio and 3 Tracks at Rockville, MD's Hit & Run Studios and released the cd, "The Seven Deadly Sins" on the defunct label Last World Records. Before the release Rodney Day split from the band and the band continued with Paul Folk on vocals and released material under the new name of Amerced. 2007 will see the release of a new Exterminance CD issued through Open Grave Records which will contain all the, "Seven Deadly Sins" material as well as various Demo Tracks, compilation Tracks, and some unreleased material as well as a few surprises. Exterminance has never officially split up and hopefully you can catch them live in 2007 or maybe even hear some new material however that is still to be determined. You may never see or hear from Exterminance again or, Exterminance may never go away…… Stay tuned…
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exterminance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.