Extra Curricular make future soul music, incorporating rock and electronic music styles. The band play real instruments along-side live electronics and vocals.

Thabo Mkwananzi (Vocals)
Martin Chung (Guitars)
Jack Button (Bass/Programming)
Noah Burton (Drums/Programming)
John Waugh (Saxes)
Greg Nicholas (Trumpet)

After releasing two EPs on Doorly's Pigeonhole This! label in summer 2012 the world are now waking up to Extra Curricular’s fresh new sound. The band's debut EP 'WON'T STAY DOWN' peaked at number 11 in the iTunes electronic chart and set the scene for the follow up success of 'LAST DAY'. The track received countless BBC Radio 1 plays courtesy of Annie Mac, Toddla T, and Friction, and was showcased as part of the now legendary 'Free Music Monday' blog.

Formed in 2009 from after-hours jam sessions in Huddersfield put together by rhythm section duo Noah Burton (Drums) and Jack Button (Bass), Extra Curricular sculpted their sound passing through the genres of hip-hop, jazz and funk, with past alumnae including Ruby Wood (Submotion Orchestra) and Jack Flash (UK Hip-hop MC).

The current formation boasts an impressive live stage show which has to be witnessed to be fully appreciated. The band’s blend of soulful grooves, bass driven beats and luscious melodies together to form deep and meaningful songs delivered by the rapturous vocals and presence of Thabo Mkwanazi. This live show has seen Extra Curricular play alongside Example, Labrinth, Professor Green, Tynchy Stryder, Zane Lowe, Tower Of Power, Doorly, DJ Yoda, Reverend and The Makers, Artwork, Youngblood Brass Band, The Correspondents, The Furious 5, and Craig Charles amongst others.

The band can also count Andi Durrant (Capital FM) and Eddy Temple-Morris (Xfm) as fans. Mixmag, Knowledge Magazine, and DJMag have run features on Extra Curricular, with Mixmag premiering the band's debut music video on their worldwide blog. Following on, 'LAST DAY' has now appeared on the Ibiza Rocks 2012 compilation and the Jaguar Skills and His Amazing Friends album. Thabo’s vocals also featured on the Duke Dumont underground house hit ‘No Money Blues’ taken from his ‘For Club Play Only’ EP.

Fast-forward to 2013 and with a series of EP releases under their belt, countless performances at major festivals and venues. Extra Curricular continue to produce new music, collaborate with exciting artists, and showcase their live show around the UK. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Extra+Curricular">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.