EXXILES- Symphonic/Progressive Metal band with members and guests from:Symphony X,Savatage,Trasns-siberian orchestra,Circle II Circle,Communic,and more!
Biography
After Mauricio Bustamante left Reign of the Architect, he started working on his new production and multinational band called “EXXILES”. This production will reflect how sometimes we are exile in life by simple or great things when we are betrayed by something we believed in. At the end there is only one result, abandonment. With pain… With anger… With passion, you discover that you learn how to rise, to liberate and fight for the things you believe in once again, at that moment the exile transforms into something that makes you stronger while you leave it behind, to keep walking towards some other kind of exile. That is the reason of EXXILE. 

The first work of the band will be a conceptual album and it will talk about loyalty. Loyalty should be a symbol of friendship, politics, religion, love… It will have a lot of stories but at the end they will all have the same direction to become one. It will show how loyalty becomes weak when personal interests are involved in it, meaning that it doesn't matter to sacrifice people's beliefs or hopes in order to achieve the power under the dreamer's dreams.

The band will have special members and guest such as: Mike Lepond (Symphony X), Zak Stevens (Circle II Circle, Savatage), Oddleif Stensland (Communic), Chris Caffery (Trans- siberian Orchestra, Savatage), Marcela Bovio(stream of Passion) Gus Monsanto (Adagio, Revolution Renaissance) Mats Haugen (Circus Maximus), David Grey (Lost in Thought), among others. This time Mauricio also included Mexican talents such as: Sergio Aguilar (Agora), Simon Rojas (Bass) – talented bass player that has worked with different Mexican bands and Noel Martinez (keyboards) – great keyboard player with a natural talent and a special feeling that release in every note with his instrument and Antonio Rivera (solitude).
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/EXXILES">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.