Exxplorer was formed during the height of the 80’s metal scene in New Jersey. The band has been regarded as one of the most original heavy metal bands of that era. Their first Album, Symphonies of Steel, has been recognized for well over twenty years as one of the most innovative and influential heavy metal albums of all time. The album topped the charts in several countries for overall import sales and appeared at the top of hundreds of radio play lists throughout Europe, and in many of what were still then considered communist countries. Meanwhile the band continued to create momentum generated from their European success.

The band's second album, “A Recipe for Power”, was released in 1994. Although a period of time had passed between the first and second albums, the fans loved the new album for its blend of 80's progressive power metal, with a 90's edge, demonstrating their longevity as a band as the demand for music changed. Exxplorer continued on with their success and in 1997 was noticed by Atlantic Records producer Bruce Buchanan, who decided to work with the band on their 3rd album, “Cold Black Ugly”.

Exxplorer recently reunited and in April 2009, they were invited to perform at the Keep it True Metal Festival in Germany. What happened next was beyond belief; a massive gathering of fans that have waited for years came out to show their loyalty and see this band live once again. This show of support gave Exxplorer an immediate invitation back to Germany to perform at the Headbangers Open Air Fest in July 2009 and again went over amazingly. Exxplorer were then invited back a 3rd time, to perform as co-headliner at the 10th anniversary Swordbrothers Festival in Andernach Germany on Sept 10th 2011. This show also doubled as the European release party for their new album "Vengeance Rides An Angry Horse"

The overwhelming response has created huge demand for this new Exxplorer release and subsequent return dates to Europe are now in the works. The new Exxplorer album is NOW AVAILABLE worldwide, and for download on Itunes & CD Baby.

A tour is being planned in support of this release . 

Discography
Symphonies of Steel (1984, Full-lenght)
Demo (1985, Demo)
A Recipe for Power (1994, Full-lenght)
Coldblackugly (1996, Full-lenght)
Vengeance Rides An Angry Horse (2011, Full-lenght) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Exxplorer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.