Eyeless can refer to:

1) The freanch metal-hardcore band.
2) The dark-hardcore band from the north of Italy.
3)The Progressive jazzy Death Metal band from Quebec city, Canada

--
1) Imagine the perfect blend of Swedish metal and New York hardcore… You can't? Then you better listen to EYELESS, the newest French sensation! At the turn of the new millennium, the French metal scene was all about nu-metal. But a violent musical beast was about to rise… 
Eyeless was born in 1999, fed with melodic death and hardcore music, and blindly determined to crush it all. Their first EP, Self Inflicted Torture, was just a first bite of what they had to offer, but still it gave Eyeless a chance to share the stage with bands like Crytopsy, Dying Fetus and Vader to name just a few. In 2002, Eyeless releases a second EP, When Shadows Seduce, and thanks to it, is the winner of Roadrunner France contest “Ondes de Choc”, rightfully acclaimed as “best newcomer” on the French metal scene. As one can imagine, concert offers flew after this, leading eventually to the main support act of French rock stars Lofofora, at the mythic venue of La Cigale in Paris. After so much noise, a label is easily found and the first Eyeless album, Path to the Unknown, is released early 2004, to press accl.. “The cocktail Eyeless made for you will blow you away” (Hard N’Heavy), “Eyeless music will cleanse your ears for good” (Rock Sound). The following tour (with label mates Eths) will bring them to every main city for a sold-out “tour de France”. Some bands would rather rest after so much effort, but not Eyeless: the band is eager to write new songs for their second album. But one last touring opportunity shows up, that will delay the writing for a few more weeks: a European tour with Misery Index in April 2005 ! Finally back home, Eyeless is ready to unleash the fury they kept for the new album. The songs are recorded during the summer at Trendkill Studios, near Montpellier (South of France). Danny, singer of Angel Crew and long time friend of Eyeless, was down there on holidays, enjoying the sea and the sun. So, very naturally, he ended up recording one song for the new album (“Crushing All My Enemies”). During the fall, the band flew to Denmark to mix the songs with producer Tue Madsen (The Haunted, Hatesphere, Dagoba). Being in Denmark, they also took the opportunity to get Jacob Bredahl (Hatesphere) to sing on the song “Cursed”. The eleven songs are now ready, the album is completed. While shopping the album to labels, Eyeless is invited to give a song from their first album to the Listenable Records compilation Revolution Calling, alongside the best of the French metal scene (Scarve, Gojira…). Summer 2006: Season of Mist signs the band, seduced by their raw energy. The Game of Fear is a new start for Eyeless with a more metal and melodic sound but still a hardcore flavour. Such a musical jewel needed a fitting box.
The artwork was done by Chad Michael Ward, known for his work with Static-X, Fear Factory and Marilyn Manson. Now, please, don’t be afraid: open the box and don’t worry, this Game of Fear will be played for your pleasure only…

2) Through the blackened branches of Alessandria's abyssal forest, Eyeless were formed within the winter of 2001 ~ originally by Guido (guitarist and voice, ex pdm-stepoff-absence), Cristina (bass) and Gianluca (drums), with vision to create a primitive and very negative crusty band; With this line-up they recorded their first demo tape called "all life ends", and started unleashing shows across the northern Italy. Later on in the process, Diego (ex Permanent scar-burning defeat...) joined the band becoming the leading growler - with this new line-up, Eyeless soon recorded a swamp of releases really influenced by bands like Darktrhone, Doom or Joy Division. In Mabon 2003, Eyeless then went on to record the 7" called "Gloomy Day"released by Black Print records (London UK), which is now a historical document of a past era for Eyeless. 
The band is not active at the moment.
Guido is now playing guitar in the dark-crust band Bhopal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eyeless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.