Eyesnomouth (ENM) was formed some time around 2017 by Steve Curtis (UTM/Incision/Gravel Pit) with fellow Ultimate Trigger Mechanism (UTM) bandmates Rob Porch (UTM,Product of the system) and Lee Baggot (UTM, Product of the system, Betrayers). After playing brutal fast paced death metal for many years in UTM, playing shows with the likes of Napalm Death, The Berzerker, Sylosis, Suffocation, Gorerotted, Desecration and Devil sold his soul, splitting and reforming multiple times and getting banned from venues for antisocial and disorderly behaviour the band needed a reset and the first incarnation of Eyesnomouth was born. 

Eyesnomouth originally began with Steve swapping his usual role as a drummer to fill bass duties, with guitarist Rob and Vocalist Lee carrying out their usual roles, they were joined by drummer Mike Arter (All guns blazing) and Jesse Mitchell (All guns blazing) and begun creating more Doom/Drone influenced music. This line up was short lived due to creative differences , Mike and Jesse departed and Steve returned to Drumming and Ashley Easton (Gravel pit)  joined on bass. 

After releasing the their first Demo "#1" and a successful run of local shows Vocalist Lee Baggot departed due to general negativity within the band. 

Ashley temporarily took over on vocals and bassist Corey millard (Gravel Pit, Purgatory) joined, during this period the band played a run of hardcore shows under the name griefhole and recorded the doom-grind griefhole Ep. Although the relationship between the members remained solid during this period the bands momentum was halted due to the hospitalisation and recovery of a member, members having new children and the pandemic being the final nail. 

In 2021 the boys got back together with Ashley joining Rob on guitars and the Nihil Ep was recorded with vocalist Robbie Skinner (purgatory, dystopian dread), who unfortunately had to depart due to other commitments. 

In 2022 Aiden Reed (Gravel Pit, Martha Beck) joined on vocals and the band took on the name Eyesnomouth again, putting together a live set featuring tracks from all Eps under every moniker and releasing a new 3 track Ep The Infinity of non-existence....
Thats about fucking it so far. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/eyesnomouth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.