Eyes of Noctum is a melodic black metal band from Los Angeles featuring famous Hollywood actor Nicolas Cage's son, Weston Cage (stage name, Arcane). Eyes of Noctum saw its genesis in 2005 when Arcane began to experiment as an underground artist. Three years later, Arcane and former Noctum guitarist Asmodeus began recording material they co-wrote together, taking the first step from the shadows of the unknown.

In the summer of 2008, Eyes of Noctum formed with the addition of Vardar (guitar), Templar (keyboards), Moloch (bassist), and Donner (drums). The band immediately began to produce their first complete album. The album was produced in Sweden by Fredrik Nordström (Flames, Opeth) with contributions by renowned music producer Jack Douglas (Iron Maiden, Cheap Trick, Alice Cooper, Areosmith).

In early 2009, Asmodeous left Eyes of Noctum, and the band added guitarist Neboran.

If you want to join EON's list for the most up-to-date news and tour dates, visit www.eyesofnoctumofficial.com and sign up. To contact the band, e-mail eyesofnoctum@gmail.com.

ARCANE
The founding member of Eyes of Noctum, in collaboration with Asmodeous, Arcane was previously in Hells Disciple, an instrumental solo project that began in 2004. After exploring literature, philosophy, mythology and theatre, Hells Disciple was put on hold. Years later, after a hiatus dedicated to poetry and creative writing, Arcane gravitated back into his musical passion, giving his “words life with the spirit of sound.” While studying, he developed his own ideology, later coupling it with music and becoming a vocalist. Arcane enjoys espousing his ideology and telling stories in metaphoric tongue set to metal. His role as vocalist reveals Arcane’s unique voice and broad vocal range.

TEMPLAR
Templar was born in May of 1988 and claims that there is no coincidence between the year he was born and the instrument he now plays (an 88-keyed keyboard). Templar focused his life on the exploration of music for the majority of his years, having played for more than 10 years in Southern California (where he was born). He then decided attend the acclaimed Musician’s Institute in Hollywood to further his talent. While at school, he met vocal instructor James Lugo. As it turned out, Lugo was also the vocal coach of Eyes of Noctum’s lead vocalist, Arcane. Ultimately, this lead to Templar’s involvement with the band and the beginning of his career in music. Eventually, the name Templar would dawn on him as the perfect alter ego to carry out his message of embracing fear, in order to overcome it. www.myspace.com/templarnoctum, www.myspace.com/audiocentricband, www.myspace.com/ryanschroederteachesmusic

VARDAR
Vardar has played guitar since the age of 9—classical (which didn't go that far) and electric. In mid-2008, Vardar got a call from Moloch wondering if he would be interested in trying out to replace another, short-lived guitarist, to which his reply was “Fuck yeah.” Vardar has been a member of Eyes of Noctum ever since. Strictly a rhythm guitarist, due to personal protest against the “rockstar attitude” common in many contemporary guitarists, Vardar is also proficient in wizardry and amazing with the ladies.

MOLOCH
Playing bass guitar and stand-up bass for 11 years, Moloch is also proficient in keyboard, guitar and the bagpipes. He joined Eyes of Noctum in early 2008 and is originally from Wisconsin.

DONNER
At 23 years old, Donner had slowly carved his path to becoming the drummer for Eyes of Noctum. Hailing from the High Desert of Southern California, Donner began his musical journey through his first band featuring his dad and brother (keyboardist Templar). Percussion is the heartbeat of music and the fire that Donner fell deep in love with. According to Donner, Eyes of Noctum is “six members who came together for something far deeper and more powerful than we can ever fully understand ourselves.”

“It is no coincidence that we ended up playing together,” he continues. “For when we’re all in tune with one another, something special and sacred happens.” They say destiny is written in the stars; for Donner, it was written by his own hand.

NEBORAN
Replacing Asmodeus on lead guitar, Neboran joined Eyes of Noctum in February 2009 and has quickly rounded out the band's evolving sound.

Eyes of Noctum is rumored to be currently undergoing the transformation from being a black metal band to a more death metal oriented band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Eyes+of+Noctum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.