Founded in 1994, EZ3kiel is a magnet-Dub band originating from Tours, France. In the beginning they had a singer, however  there is no recorded material from that period.  

Since 1999 they have  worked as a trio:

Yann Nguema (bass guitar, visuals)
Joan Guillon (samples, effects, keyboard)
Matthieu Fays (percussion)

They released in  1999 the  mini album 'Equalize-it'. In 2000 they released the album ‘Handle with care’ (Jarring Effects/Pias), which featured many collaborations with big names of the French independent music scene (such as Yann Tiersen, Sylvestre from Dit Terzi and Sir Jean from Meï teï Sho). That album intrigued the audience and confirmed the band's eclectic style. During their live performances, they are known for creating a poetic universe with beautiful visuals and graphics, which are made by bass guitarist Yann N'Guema. He uses samples of various photographs, which in combination with the music creates a special audio-visual experience. Other French electro bands use visuals on their live performance, but EZ3kiel are really something special compared to them, their visuals are synchronized with the sound. In 2003 they released another album 'Barb4Ry' (Jarring Effects/Pias) which showed that the band's mature period came. With it they confirmed their identity as a group which expresses itself in different music genres (electronica, dub, hiphop etc.) and does lots of experimentation. In their music beauty and melancholic mood quickly change to aggression and cruelty. The efficiency of EZ3kiel lies in their ability to surprise the audience. The profanity of their sound and visuals delivered them to become one of the most exciting and interesting French electro dub bands.
Their concert ambience can be seen on their live dvd, ‘Versus Tour 2004’. They took the name EZ3kiel from a biblical person which is often mentioned in Quentin Tarantino's movie called Pulp Fiction (the character played by Samuel Jackson often reads his quotes).

Discography:
1999 - Equalize it
2000 - Handle with care
2004 - Barb4Ry
2004 - Versus Tour (live CD and DVD)
2007 - Naphtaline
2008 - Battlefield


http://www.ez3kiel.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/EZ3kiel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.