Multiple artists exist under this name. Eight are mentioned below.
 
1. Part of the French dubstep label 7even Recordings, where he produces forward-thinking techno-oriented dubstep. He released an album in 2010 called Energy Distortion.

2. F is a crossover band from the Netherlands. In 2007, a year after forming the band, the foursome released its first album, called Fantastiez. It's filled with a combination of rock, funk, rap and pop. In 2010, F developed the Continue Release Concept, in which they release a new single and music video every six weeks. Every released song of F also starts with the letter F.

3.  F was a Punk band from Florida.  They formed in 1982 in Florida and released their first 12-inch record You Are An E.P. a year later. Prior to its release, the band broke up into two bands - one punk rock and the other '70s-style heavy metal - with the same name and performing the same songs in their respective styles.  An LP combining the "You Are An E.P." & "Mess You Up E.P" along with a few bonus tracks was released in 2009 with a limited pressing of 333 copies.

4. A brutal death metal band from Finland, previously known as Fornjotr.

5. A post-punk/post-shoegaze band from Los Angeles, California, who were formed together in 2002. They released a self-titled album, and an EP titled Hinterland, which is gorgeous. F, also the legal name of the lead singer, dissolved the band and formed The Distortions, releasing their debut Exploding Teenage Body Part.

6. A solo electronic artist (Mike Effenberger).  His album is called "inverse regioneering".  Go to www.theletterf.org to find out more.

7. f is in small caps and is an experimental amateur bass player. he still hasn't got a website.

8. Fanni Sjöholm, rapper and musician from Turku, Finland. Previously part of female musician collective D.R.E.A.M.G.I.R.L.S. Debut solo album MÄ EN oo vIEL TARpEEks Iso was released in 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/F">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.