F.A.C.E., aka Gianluca Bello, was born in 1980 in Ivrea, a little city near Turin, Italian beating-heart of electronic music. It’s right in Turin that his passion for electro music grows, thanks to its various digital guideline clubs and pubs. When he was teen age, he undertook
 musical instruments studies, sax initially (he abandoned this instrument a day before starting playing it, after two years of solfeggio),
 then the acoustic and electric guitar. From here his participation as guitar player in some younger rock-band, where he takes confidence with song. 
In 1998 he follows a training course about breathing and vocal techniques and right as a singer he creates the ska-swing band “ETILYBLUES”, a ten-element band that obtains very good results in festivals, musical shows, and lives events all around the North of Italy.
At the end of the experience with “ETILYBLUES”, in 2003, he becomes interested in the innovative sonorities that were taking place in musical outline, really different from the old conception of electro music he had. In that period many people thought like him about music.
 Between them, Mauro Zanaboni (Zizzi), another (at that time and now) singer, also interested in that kind of sonorities.
Together they create the “Vincent ‘n’ Jules” project, with the intention of making all the people know that kind of music, the dj’s, the labels…things they both felt in love with!
They begin to produce their sound, between minimal, techno, glitch and house, before in Ivrea (C.S.A. Castellazzo, Arduino Bar, Belushi Music Cafè, Rosas Cafè, Babilonia Circolo, Cinastic, Sugho), then in Turin (Giancarlo 2 Murazzi, Tuyo, MoonSpell cafè).
Parallelly with this activity, in 2005 Gianluca finds himself empty of sonorities but full of ideas; after a digital-programming course, he retired himself and he febrile started to produce. 
One year later the result: together with Sergio Mari, a producer and friend of Turin, he creates the “HIT BEAT RECORDS”, an independent record label. Today, more than the project Vincent ‘n’ Jules, he produced, with the pseudonym F.A.C.E.,
 many tracks with a minimal-funk flavour, 
out soon for Hit Beat Records. 

2)
F.A.C.E. is from Tromsø in the far north and play electronica with a hint of indie pop. The trio consists of Per Fox, Paulo Velasquez and Øivind Sjøvoll and even though they have side projects, F.A.C.E. is their lovechild. The melodies stretch from the early 80’s synth scene to the 2000’s with its guitar based pop music. All in all an unpretentious salute to everything fun! With lyrics that balance between the childish and the weirdness of the subconscious mind , it’s hard not to get carried away into the beautiful world of electro pop!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/F.A.C.E.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.