Six (6) bands operate under the acronym F.O.D.

1) FLAG OF DEMOCRACY (often abbreviated F.O.D.) is an American hardcore punk band formed in 1982 and originally from Ambler, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Philadelphia. The group plays a mixture of melodic punk, frequently with two-part vocal lines, and noisy, dissonant hardcore, often at extreme speeds – many F.O.D. songs push past 200 beats-per-minute. The band never attained commercial success, but enjoys popularity in certain underground circuits, particularly in Europe.

2) F.O.D.: Belgian melodic punkrockband formed in 2008.
Music: short, fast and very melodic, with no strings attached, as their legendary predecessors such as Descendents, Lagwagon and Bad Religion taught them.
F.O.D. soon built a steady live reputation with their catchy melodies and vocal harmonies.  They launched their first EP 'Dance to this' in December 2011 and their full album 'Ontario' in March 2013 on Thanks But No Thanks Records!   Inspired by the positive feedback, the band kept on writing new songs while touring across Belgium and Canada, leaving no punk rock heart untouched.  In Januari 2014 they signed Funtime Records and released a 7inch 'Something More'.
This year will see birth of their second full album, expect songs about life and music, all wrapped in F.O.D.’s signature sound that reminds the old timers among us of our favorite nineties’ bands and the younger kids that dancing isn’t just for girls.
www.fodmusic.be

3) F.O.D.: German Techno-Band
f.o.d. was found out of farout and d.o.d.  The fusion of both bands developed to a creative symbiosis.
The first time in the history of electronic music EBM and Dance were melt to a new musical style: eXcess dance. Already, in the year 2002 two singles of the following album in 2003 called -crucified - were released.  In 2004 for the first time f.o.d. played a concert outside the EU and celebrated with soldiers of KFOR and people of the kosovo.  2005 the 2. f.o.d. Album was published - Made in Germany .  The tour to this longplayer started in november 2005 in Tel Aviv (Israel) and was ended in 2006, after 12 successful - made in germany - concerts, in f.o.d.s hometown Oschatz in front of more then thousand visitors.  In spring 2007 f.o.d. signed a contract with Fear Section, the record label of Chris Pohl (Blutengel, Terminal Choice...)  The new Album Synthesizer TanzMusik is available everywhere in germany in stores and all over the world wide web.
Official site: www.fod-band.de

4) Fuck Off and Die, a thrash-metal/punk component of Joey Sturgis' imagination, releasing a singular song, "Dive Bomb Nazi". There is no word on whether the band is still together or of any other recordings or performances. 

5.) F.O.D. is also a mexican punk-rock/hardcore band since 2008, what appeared on various compilation albums and released an EP "Fuck Off an Die". www.facebook.com/fod.punx

6) Punk band from Russia, Nakhodka. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/F.O.D.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.