Since 1996 Faces Of Madness has been true to itself and to all others, the members grew up together and learned a lot from each other..s musicianship, argueing, fighting and drinking, becoming best friends. Consisted of Diogo Marins (vocals and keys), Marcelo Pinheiro (guitars), Ulysses Carvalho (bass), Piero Franceschi (drums) and Caio Bonini (guitars) from start till..today. Faces Of Madness released a couple of demo tapes with cult names such as “Hell In Studio”, first demo very raw with some cover songs from their early learning period, “Endless Grief”, showing a more consistant work also the first one with own songs and the private early schetches of what would become their style and “Ancient Lands”, demonstrating songs that would eventually determine the dark metal that Faces Of Madness invented, the combination of several styles of music since all members listen to diverse segments of metal, hard rock and soundtracks without loosing it..s melody and agression combined lyrics inspired by the occult, misterious and evil. Rusted Memories was the name of their debut album put out by Destroyer Records, oddly enough since Destroyer Records usually signs bands of extreme metal. Originally the Rusted album was ment to be a good demo tape, but took the proportions not expected by FOfM, the original plan was to get a good record deal and re-record the songs, but with the great acceptance of the material, the decision was mutual, on the band..s part and the label. Rusted Memories was a great “door opener” to put Faces Of Madness on the map concerning magazines and gigs, and crowd..s roar made Faces Of Madness even stronger, angry and ruthless, wasting weak bands out of the way. This “hunger” and power are reflected on the new songs.The new songs are already recorded and Madness is the word to classify the sound, the themes go from occult books as Necronomicon, stories of Edgar Allan Poe, Viking battles to historical journeys, these shall be on the second Faces Of Madness.. album, called Locus Horrendus, with label undetermined yet. If you are tired of the melodic fake metal bands you..ll go crazy with Faces Of Madness, GET IT NOW!!!

BRAZILIAN HEAVY FKN METAL <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Faces+of+Madness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.