There are three Artists called "Faceless" . One rapper and two bands 

Not to be confused with the band "The Faceless" rapper "Faceless" (real name Justin pictured here http://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Faceless/+images/7639515) was a rapper working for the label Serial Killin Records. He had a very short rap career but, did make a lot of good music while he was one. He now is a graphic designer who owns his own company.  

The first band was a two-piece Ambient/electronica and Breakbeat band from Norwich in the United Kingdom, comprised of Tom Albrighton and Alistair Macormick, They recorded three albums from 1995 to 2002. "Achievement" and "Faceless" on Noisebox Records and  "Different Sounds" on Burning Shed and also produced several white label 12". The content varies from pure ambient to Funk. Tom is now in "Key 54"

The second band are called "The Faceless", details below.

Since Facelesss conception in 2004 it has stood on one main principle; rock hard. By doing that show after show Faceless has gained a solid following having close to 35,000 hits on there website, opened for such national bands as Skillet, Kutless, Hawk Nelson, 36 CrazyFists and Audio Adrenaline, and have become a highly requested headlining band to perform at many various venues stretching from youth camps, rock shows, to local music clubs.

Known for the high energy shows and catchy songs, Faceless has toured all over Alaska and has even done a small national Philadelphia tour in the summer of 2005, and are even embarking on a two week international tour in the fall of 2006 to Turkey. As a testament to there hard work they released a self-produced 7 song EP and sold over 500 copies within two weeks of its release.

In the words of band member Zach Gall, We just go out there and play our best, have as much fun as we can, and be passionate about what we do. With that mind set they have conquered many hearts and fans. With songs written from the soul with upfront, positive lyrics and heavy riffs; its sure to make someone think about who they are. Now moving into another phase of their career they are back in the studio about to release new songs and theres no telling where they might end up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Faceless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.