Since their founding in early 2004, Face Down Hero represent straight, modern metal. Face Down Hero are Kali Naumann (vocals, guitar), Jens Kelschenbach (guitar), Sebastian Rink (bass guitar), and Carsten Kachelmus (drums). Influenced by classic Bay Area thrash as well as more recent bands they manage to create a self-contained style and sound.

Carsten and Kali already have several released records and nationwide gigs with their former band Mind-Ashes to their names. Jens and Sebastian complete the line-up to a group of experienced musicians, all of them capable to translate their musical ideas into songs and performances.

Released in 2005 to the press exclusively, three-track demo-EP „Syndrome“ is the Bands first sign of live. Though well received by dozens of magazines, Face Down Hero decide to leave it at that, to further refine their style.

In October 2006 the band signed a record deal with Yonah Records. In March 2007 the band has released their first full length CD with the title Opinion Converter.

This record was reviewed in nearly every relevant german metal magazine and this gaves the band the chance to play on more live events and Festival with acts like Disillusion, Fear my Thoughts, Disbelief, Eisregen, Skyclad etc.

In August 2007 Face Down Hero entered the Gernhart Studios in Siegburg/Germany to record their second album called Where all this anger grows.

This record shows the band from a more aggressiv and darker side than the debuet. For this record they could win again Kai Swillus (Metal Church, Holy Moses..) for the artwork.

In March 2008 the band released their second album Where All This Anger Grows

With this record Face Down Hero prove again that it..s possible to combine hard music and melodies without following any trend.

Current line-up 
Christian Naumann: Guitars, Vocals (Mind-Ashes)
Jens Kelschenbach: Guitars
Carsten Kachelmus: Drums (Mind-Ashes)
Sebastian Rink: Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Face+Down+Hero">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.