Factory of Dreams is a symphonic metal gothic project consisting of Hugo Flores and Jessica Lehto. Hugo produces and creates all the music while Jessica provides her beautiful vocals. Following their album POLES in 2008, Factory of Dreams are back with a new production, called A STRANGE UTOPIA, bringing a whole new epic and progressive feel to the sound crafted on their debut. More complex, heavier, faster and at the same time catchy, this is a huge album, featuring the hallmark of Factory of Dreams, with great melodic sense and shivering moments and a great cast of guest singers and performers. As a highlight, the near 10 minute Epic E-motions, and the beautiful track Sonic Sensations depicting a World created by Sound and Music.  
----

BIOS

Multi-instrumentalist Hugo Flores rose to international attention with his first solo album in 2000. After that he formed the band “Sonic Pulsar” that would further refine his sound and style and lead to the release of 2 albums, one in 2002 the second in 2005. These albums further inspired Hugo to the point of creating a massive multi-album story arc under the moniker “Project Creation”, which has release 2 albums so far, one in 2005 and one in 2007. Now in 2008 Hugo was once again inspired, this time by vocalist Jessica Lehto to create new music outside of the style he’d been working in for the last several years. He brings a goth element to his new project “Factory of Dreams” that is sure to catch your attention.

At the age of seven Jessica started playing the keyboard/piano. She took a few piano classes but learning notes bored her and Jessica ended up learning mostly everything by ear. Jessica started singing when she was 15. That was when Jessica discovered more metal driven music such as The Gathering, Within Temptation, Nightwish and Blind Guardian. Since then her interest in music has grown much deeper, and at the age of 17 Jessica started writing pieces of her own. She’s currently keeping this passion for music up in her project Once There Was, and also through participating in different collaborations like the new fantastic Factory of Dreams developed by Hugo Flores. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Factory+of+Dreams">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.