Starting out as a DJ in 1998, Factor has evolved into one of Western Canada’s busiest super producers.  He is continuously working and touring with high caliber Canadian and American artists including: AWOL One, Moka Only, Myka 9, Ceschi, Sole, Aesop Rock, Buck 65, Gregory Pepper, Sunspot Jonz, Tha Liks, Xzibit, Kool Keith, Josh Martinez, Sadat X, and The Side Road Crew.   He is known for continuously dropping top-notch product out of Saskatoon since the late ‘90s.  He is the founder, owner and operator of Side Road Records (2001), releasing over 30 professional albums between Side Road Records & Fake Four Inc..  

Factor's music has garnered international distribution and he has received positive critical acclaim by way of magazine and website reviews as well as receiving radio play on college/community radio all over Canada, the US and Japan. Factor's production combines smooth melodic samples and live instruments over immaculate drums put together seemingly effortlessly to create a distinct sound of his own and it's for this reason he's consistently banging out one-of-a-kind beats as one of underground music’s favorite new school producers. Factor is always trying to create original, thought-provoking music that pushes the envelope of traditional hip-hop and has drawn significant attention to this Canadian artist.  Hailing from the prairies, this Saskatoon, SK born and raised musician continues to make waves with his innovative sound.

Few producers in modern day hip-hop respect the art of sampling quite like Canadian beatsmith Factor.  Whether he's reworking dusty Canadian folk tunes or hidden funk anthems, Factor thrives on creating diverse, drum heavy, and wonderfully catchy beats.  Over the last 10 years Factor has built a reputation as being one of the most prolific and consistent producers in independent hip hop.  He has laced tracks for a veritable who's-who list of West Coast underground rappers including members of The Shapeshifters, Living Legends, Swollen Members, Freestyle Fellowship, Project Blowed, and others.  In Canada Factor has helped put Saskatoon, Saskatchewan on the map by founding and running the independent label Side Road Records all while producing music for every Side Road release. While most beat makers stay put in the lab, Factor is an exception to the rule, touring relentlessly as a supporting DJ around the world with many rappers including Busdriver, Subtitle, and Josh Martinez. Now in 2008 he is performing alongside AWOL One on the road with Montreal rock band Islands. 

On Chandelier, his first solo release on Fake Four Inc., the melodic elements of Factor's production shine while perfectly complimenting vocalists such as Sadat X of Brand Nubian, AWOL One, Myka 9 of Freestyle Fellowship, Moka Only and others.  Unlike many producer/guest rapper projects of the past Chandelier does not come off sounding like another run of the mill hip hop compilation, instead this is a fully flowing, fleshed out album from start to finish complete with lyrical themes and musical odes to soul, folk and psychedelia.  With Chandelier, the hardest working producer in Canada has become a master of his own style and has dug himself a niche on the fringes of a hip hop world all too often cluttered with imitators and uselessness.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Factor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.