✪ Fading Circles ✪

The Fading Circles band was founded in 2002.

(The band members are Hungarians living in Romania.)

In the spring of 2003 they made a demo record which includes 5 songs.

The band had a short period of break until November 2003, since then new songs have been made.

In April 2004 Hunor Nagy won the best bass-player award at the Saint George Rock Night talent-search programme organized on Saint George Days in Sepsiszentgyörgy (Sfântu-Gheorghe).
In July they played at the biggest rock festival of Transylvania, the 3rd Rock Marathon - Székelyudvarhely (Odorheiu Secuiesc - Szejke spa).

In March 2005, the band won the second prize at the first 'Maximum Rock Challenge Festival', which was held in Kolozsvár (Cluj) with the aim to support the Romanian underground community. The guitarist of the band, István Csiszér also won the award 'Guitarist Of The Festival'.

On 14th of July, they could play for the Transylvanian fans at the 4th Rock Marathon, organized at Székelyudvarhely (Odorheiu Secuiesc - Szejke spa).

In the autumn the band entered for the MediaFame, organized by the Transindex, where getting through the qualifying round and the regional competition, they won the high prize of the national competition in the best song and music categories, and, as a special award, they could have a concert at the Peninsula Festival in 2006, and at the Free Summer University at Bálványos (http://www.tusvanyos.ro).

Hitherto the biggest concert of the band has been at the Monsters of Transylvania festival which took place in the sports hall in Marosvásárhely (Târgu- Mures) on 26th of November 2005. At that festival bands like ANVIL (Canada), PHANTOM-X (U.S.A.), IRON MASK (Belgium), NORTHERN LIGHTS (Turkey), TŰZMADÁR (Hu), TAINE (Ro), GOTHIC (Ro), iCoRy (Ro) gave concerts.
On 10th of December 2005 the Fading Circles had their first separate concert, which took place in the Alcatraz club in Székelyudvarhely (Odorheiu Secuiesc). The boys ended their 2005 tour of concerts as the main band of the RockXMas festival organized on 23 December in Marosvásárhely (Târgu-Mures).

In the spring of 2006 the band went to the studio to record a couple of songs. On 13th May the band participated in the Sting Underground Club Budapest (Hungary) and then at the semifinals of the MA-TE-R Search for the Talented Rock Festival organized by the Hungarian Music and Cultural Foundation which took place in Budapest in 2006. They succeeded in entering the final, which was organized on 20th of May 2006. The show brought more success for the band, as they returned home with the main prize of the festival.

In July the band participated in the most important rock festivals in Transylvania: on the 11th in Tusnádfürdő, in the MIÉRT EU camp they played as the opening act just before the Republic, one of the famous Hungarian bands from Hungary; on the 13th they played before the Hungarian Aurora band at the V. Rock Marathon organized in Transylvania (Székelyudvarhely-Szejke Spa); on the 21st they played in Tusnádfürdő again after the Hungarian Karthago and the Transylvanian TransylMania, at the Free Summer University of Tusványos; then on the 26th the band opened the programme of the Félsziget Festival on the Weekend stage (Big Stage) before the Altar and Pokolgép bands.
The band ended its 2006 tour of concerts as the guest band of the TAZ-Mania festival (http://www.peronmusic.hu) organized in Tatabánya (Hungary) on 28th December.

2007: - the recording of the new material wasn't finished yet. Gigs: Budapest (HU) on 18th August; Social Club, Reghin (RO) - 20th October; Nagykanizsa (HU) - 3rd November; Odorheiu-Secuiesc (RO) - 17th November.

2008: - at the beginning of the year the recording sessions continued. The most important show of the year was Félsziget (Peninsula) again, sharing the stage with Subscribe (Hu), Republic (Hu) and with Kispál és a Borz.

The spring of 2009 finally brought the result of studio work, the product being Soulburn, the debut album of Fading Circles. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fading+Circles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.