Fadihat, which means disgrace or shame Nista, Brutal Death Metal band formed in Jakarta began plugging existensinya in rock music scene in 1998. travels along disgrace frequent disassembly personnel / formation.
in 2000 they tried to launch a mini-album EP containing 4 songs bertittel "Alam Gelap" that they release and distribute it yourself (DIY). new in 2001 they came back with crazy ideas to regurgitate full album Prime / First disgrace "I'm Your Blasphemy" which contains 10 songs, released and distributed by NOISY RECORDS.
the following year stay productive with the works in 2002 sadistnya disgrace again spewing their second full album is more mature with full madness "Sick Vagina Hole" is the second full album was released by UNFLESH PRODUCTION. Some songs disgrace often join / participate in compilation albums homeland metal scene and beyond them Brutally sicknes "Blody Sounds of Death" Extreme Soul Productions (Bdg) and also "Liquesent Horrific Aftermath" Life Fluite Prod (Australia) and more ... Disgrace had experienced hard times over the past few years to disintegrate had for several years, and then finally Hery, Tyo.A and Ismail who was the original founder of shame back together to re-active with his crazy hobby in music rock / metal, they started back up from era downturn to re-work the rotten ideas, crazy, and also began to perform again in any event - the event homeland metal scene / local.
In 2010 disgrace grieving and mourning Ismail (exs Secoon Of Death) which is one of the founders of the world shame Died dikarnakan ill and was replaced by Indra Sakratis exs. while for many disgrace songs influenced by bands overseas like: Crytopsy, Suffocation, Canibal corpse, Deicide and Dying Fetus.
until the year 2011 promo disgrace again spewing Mcd - Ep 4 containing their latest song "Hell Of The World" as a sign of resurrection and productivity in the metal scene with new material and also the formation of a craze that is ready to hone eardrum. and disgrace in this akhir'a in 2012 Full Album spewing into three "Addicted To Kill" which contains 9 songs and 1 intro which was released by two labels simultaneously records the Fullgahar Production and Deadrebel Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fadihat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.