The band was formed in 1985 in Oulu. Their first demos were sung in Finnish, but after booting the original singer (guitarist Maike took over) English was the singing language. "Machine workshop noise" or "saw rock" as their music was described raised fair interest at the HC/metal scene in Finland and the first ep S/M party's (-88) title song became a small scale cult hit (couple of cover-versions of S/M party have been recorded, by Puhelinkoppi (extremely weird!!) and Impaled Nazarene).

After releasing S/M party by their own label Grave Records , band signed on an independent record label Bad Vugum. Two first albums 'Back from the grave' (-88)and 'Doesn't feel like laughing' (-89) are brutale, 100 mph moving demonstrations of raw power. No melodies, just one mean tone.

Between those albums came out 'Emptyhead' - single (-90)which contains an energic cover version of Leather Nun's No Rule at b-side. Before making the 'Doesn't...' -album the bassplayer of the band changed. K. 'Sandman' Limingoja out and Kessler in. So it goes.

The next step of the band was to sign on a major label, Poko Rekords. 'Birthday '- album (-91) is a bit slower and has more tones than two first albums. Still, you don't find any love songs in it. Minor work 'Ace of spades' -mcd's (-92)title song is of course cover version of Motörhead's perhaps most classic song. Faff-bey's latest album 'New religion' (-94) is most versatile of their works. Acoustic guitars and synthetic strings can be heard and yes, there is a love song too!!. Sound of the album is still a metallic, of course and absolutely worth checking out is a cover version of Ennio Morricone's 'Man with a harmonica', a classic western title piece. 

After the releasing of 'New Religion' new drummer Petteri joined the band. Jarski injured his hand in an accident and it sadly never recovered enough for what it took to play the extreme beats of Faff-bey. In 1997 the band finally ceased to exist. Or so it seemed.

In 2005 Faff-bey decided to do a minor comeback at least when asked to (more than once, really...). Poko Records also released a collection CD 'Should have stayed in the grave' which also includes band's last studio session, four previously unreleased songs from demo session in 1996. Couple of gigs were played over the summer of 2005 and there was much rejoicing.

http://www.faff-bey.net/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Faff-Bey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.