Failsafe are a melodic rock band based in and around Preston, UK, whose current line up has been together since 2005, although the foundations of the band were laid in 2000. So far they have released two albums (What We Are Today in 2005 and The Truth Is… in 2008) which were welcomed with a huge amount of excellent reviews across the UK and Europe, major UK festival appearances, a great deal of national radio/tv airplay. Even managing to appear in the hugely popular UK sitcom ‘The Inbetweners’, thus solidifying the band as one of the UK’s finest rock acts. Failsafe recorded their third and latest effort ‘Routines’ with producer Dave Eringa (Idlewild, Manic Street Preachers, Xcerts) which is scheduled for release in both the UK and US in Spring 2012.

Lead singer Matthew Cogley died in January 2015.

Failsafe are also:

A mainstream rock band from Kansas City that was formed in late 2007 by vocalist/guitarist Dylan Westlake. The band, originally a trio consisting of Westlake and long-time friends Nick Faulconer (drums) and Chris Ellis (bass), soon added guitarist Brett Johnson to the team in search of a fuller sound. After playing various shows to gain recognition around the KC area, Failsafe released a demo in early 2008 that spun the band into motion. Following the release of the demo, Westlake made the decision to focus solely on his vocal performance and guitarist Ben Grace was recruited to complete the band. With a strong new lineup, Failsafe began rapidly gaining popularity not only in the Kansas City area, but also online where their song “Losing Your Grace” made its way toward the top of numerous internet rock charts. After a summer featuring many Failsafe performances, drummer Nick Faulconer announced he would be temporarily leaving the band to pursue other opportunities. Nathan Ellis, brother of Chris Ellis, was brought in to fill the missing position until summer ’09, which will mark the return of original Failsafe drummer Nick Faulconer. In late 2008 Failsafe entered the studio to begin work on their debut EP, “Blood Runs Cold,” which is due in late April. With a strong new lineup, energetic live performances, and catchy, hard-hitting songs, Failsafe is proving to be a band to watch for in the future.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Failsafe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.