It all started a summer 2003, Joakim Melin (lead song / guitar) and Daniel Johansson (drums) was fooling around in Daniel's basement, mostly playing some good old Metallica and Pantera covers, two big bands that would mention a lot to the specific sound Fainted would deliver in the future.

The next step that would take the band to a higher level was when Markus Johnson (back vocals / guitar) joined the group. Being a close friend to Daniel and having a good foundation in acoustic guitar, Markus was a valued resource to the group. It was also at this point that they came up with their first song, called “To Late To Regret”.

But the band was far from fulfilled until an important element had been covered. And it wasn’t long until that Måns Jacobsson (bass) appeared, as from the thin air, ready to take his role. Now the band had a full set of members, ready to rock. But a new question popped up, they didn’t even have a name. Suggestions where made and after some compromises the name “Fainted” seemed as a natural choice.

With all band members together they could focus on producing more songs. And it didn’t take long till they hade 4 new ones, mostly calm tunes between metal and rock. The recording of a demo would now be in place and in the winter of 2003 it was released. The first demo included songs as:

"Choice Of Life"

"Crawl"

"Reclaim The Deep"

"Remember"

Notice that this was their very first demo, recorded under limited time and harsh conditions. The facts speaks for them selves; none of these songs remained active within the band. But the following would be different. "Open Your Eyes" was written during a rehearse, as result of improvising. And it’s still played energetic on our gigs.

After the producing of a whole new line up of songs Fainted seemed ready to enter the stage and perform in front of a live audience. They reserved a gig on Grand in Uppsala together with another band. Even though it was their first live concert, many people came to watch and listen. At last the work was making progress, the band continued to write tunes and perform on a series of smaller places in Uppsala.

But there were troubles within the band. Obviously Måns didn’t put the same effort in the band as the rest of the group would like to. Then, all of the sudden, Måns disappeared in two weeks without as much telling a word, this act resulted in Måns getting kicked from the band. Fainted was now without a bass player, and so the search began. Months went by but without Fainted finding a bass player. Though there was a short period when they had a stand in bassist named Axel. He rehearsed a few times with the band, but lived to far away to be as active that he would get into the band.

Then the unsuspected happened, Måns wanted to do a come back. So in 2004 he returned as bass player in Fainted. At the same time Jocke and Daniel had started another band called Remnant Prosperity with two guys named Frej Marsh (Guitar) and Johan Pettersson (Bass). This band played a sort of melodic metal. Fainted was by this time kind of dead and Markus didn’t enjoy it being a side project. The solution was to merge the bands together, resulting in three guitar players, but it wouldn’t work with two bassists, so the troublesome Måns had to go and Johan was elected.

A few changes were made. One was the tuning on the instruments. Remnant Prosperity used to play in C or drop A#, and Fainted in D or drop C. They agreed on playing all Fainted songs in C instead of D and the songs which went in Drop C in DropA#. At first the five head bangers didn’t know which name to use, Fainted or Remnant Prosperity? And for some time they went under the name Remnant Prosperity.

The First gig with the new five members went of in “Joar blå” Enköping at the “Musik direkt” competition in January 2005. The gig went fine but unfortunately they didn’t go through to the next round. After a while they switched back the name of the band to Fainted because Remnant Prosperity was such a long and hard name to remember.

Today Fainted is a melodic metal band with influences from bands like In Flames, Pantera and Metallica. Fainted is also working on a new demo, Featuring songs like “In my mind“ and “Out of my senses”. They have taking their music to a higher level with, aiming high for the skies.

And the story of Fainted still goes on.... 

Taken from http://www.fainted.se <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fainted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.