Fairytale Abuse is a Danish melodic black metal band, formed in 1993 by Max Petersen and Simon Pedersen, originally formed under the name "Obscurity". They are currently signed under the semi-major label Massacre Records who released their second Full-Length "Perversions of Angel VI" at the beginning of june 2008.

- 2008:
Morten Lykke Andersen replaces John Lauritzen on bass
Marcelo Freitas replaces Troels Nissen on drums
Music video for the song Fall of the Icon is to be released with the new album. The video is directed and produced by Lars B. Jensen
Released Perversions of Angel VI in june 2008 under Massacre Records

- 2007:
Recorded second full-length album Perversions Of Angel IV

- 2006:
Jonas Reif-Jørgensen replaced Dea Lillelund on keyboards
Finished writing the follow up album.
Released The Spirit Tower album worldwide.
Gained much success on myspace.com.

- 2005:
Signed a new deal for The Spirit Tower with Colombian label, Hateworks
Cancelled the contract with japanese label, World Chaos Production.
Played various shows including The Rock (Copenhagen), Rytmeposten (Odense) and the FA-home court, Musikcafeen (Aarhus).
Wrote a lot of new material for the record to follow The Spirit Tower. The demo Her Dark Damnation with two of those tracks was released on the website.

- 2004:
Signed a contract with World Chaos production for the release of The Spirit Tower.
Two big gigs booked at Denmark's largest metal venues.
Troels Nissen joined as new drummer.
Long time member Allan Rasmussen decided to leave the band.

- 2003:
Recorded The Spirit Tower at Unusual Waves by Mikael Larsen. Mastered at Antfarm by Tue Madsen.
John Rene Lauritzen joined on bass.

- 2002:
Still no record deal, but Fairytale Abuse more motivated than ever.
Dea joins on keyboard.
Gigs around Denmark.
New material for the upcoming full lenght "The Spirit Tower".

- 2001:
Fairytale Abuse featured in Danish television and national radio.
First live gig outside denmark. Ørebro - Sweden, the 31st of March.
The Word of God/Word of Mouth tour 2001 in US with Acetylene, Flatlined and Cryptameria.

- 2000:
"Catharsis" being reviewed in several magazines (foreign as well as Danish).
"Catharsis" being played in several radio stations (Brazil, Belgium, England, Denmark, Italy, USA)
Fairytale Abuse interviewed by Meltdown Magazine, Azifa e-zine and Darkland Magazine
Songs from Catharsis out on several compilation CD's (check out the discography section).
Planning the upcoming USA tour in year 2001.

- 1999:
New drummer Allan Rasmussen joining Fairytale Abuse.
Fairytale Abuse gets much attention from local newspapers about succes through the internet.
Recording the 4-track promo-CD "Catharsis".
Topping the charts at mp3.com's death metal section with "A forest of flames".

- 1998:
Recorded the 4-track promo-CD "Fairytale Abuse".
Uploading the first songs at mp3.com.
Topping the charts at mp3.com's death metal section with "Tranquil Forever?". 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fairytale+Abuse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.