Formed in 1995 by Sister Bliss, Faithless was a London, England, United Kingdom-based group of musicians whose music is described by one of their band members as a cross between trip-hop and techno.  The four original members of Faithless were vocalist/rapper Maxi Jazz, keyboardist/producer Sister Bliss, instrumentalist/vocalist Jamie Catto and keyboardist/producer Rollo Armstrong. Jamie Catto (now in 1 Giant Leap) left after their second album, Sunday 8PM, which was released in 1998. Rollo Armstrong's sister Dido also features on several Faithless tracks.
For the 2004 album No Roots, Faithless were joined by rapper/vocalist LSK.

Rollo's studio relationship is quite unique as he has synesthesia [a clinical condition where sounds have colour] . He also acted as producer for the second half of his sister Dido's debut album, No Angel.

Dido has been a guest singer on a number of Faithless tracks, including "Flowerstand Man" from the 1995 debut album Reverence, "Hem of his Garment" from Sunday 8PM, "One Step Too Far" from Outrospective and "No Roots" from the album of the same name.

Faithless have now released 5 studio albums, with a remix album for the first three (Reverence, Sunday 8pm and Outrospective) and an instrumental for the last (No Roots), plus a Greatest Hits collection (Forever Faithless) and 2 DVDS, one of which showcased their universally acclaimed live performances.  Their most mature album and arguably their best is the latest album 'To All New Arrivals' released on 27th November 2006, the album name being inspired by the recent birth of two babies to Rollo and Sister Bliss.

Part of one of their tracks featured on the 'Greatest Hits' album (Taruntula) was remixed by the BBC and used as the theme for their World Cup coverage in 2002.

It was reported that Faithless were to split up after their 2005 tour, which was due to end on 30 April 2005. Speculation started after Rollo wrote "We set out thinking it would be our last album, feeling maybe we have had our time in the sun". Fortunately, this was not meant to be. A fresh clutch of tour dates prolonged the tour until December 2005.  

In 2006 the band made several summer festival appearances, including the V Festival in England.

In August of 2006, Faithless released a 3 CD compilation for the Renaissance series titled, "Renaissance 3D".   The first CD contains a mix of then current club hits, the second CD is a collection of Faithless remixes and productions, and the third CD is a laid back chill out CD.

On the 27th of November 2006, Faithless released its fifth studio album titled "To All New Arrivals". Previews of the tracks were made available via the Faithless website in early October.

Their 'Music Matters' tour in the UK started in early 2007.

In May 2010, Faithless released  "The Dance", their best selling album to date in Europe. The album has been followed a few months later by an upgrade, including a remix bonus CD, "The Dance Never Ends".

On March 16th 2011, Maxi Jazz announced on his website that Faithless would cease to be, commenting "But, like when writing a song, you always just ‘know’ when it’s finished… this is and was the “Thank YOU And Goodbye’ tour". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Faithless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.