Faithsedge is a heavy Heavy Metal/Hard Rock/Progressive project started by singer/songwriter Giancarlo Floridia in Huntington Beach, California, in early 2009. Giancarlo has a solid musical background, having previously worked with renowned producers such as Mike Talanca (David Bowie/Foreigner) and Juan Croucier (X-Ratt) among others.

Giancarlo contacted producer and bass player Fabrizio Grossi (Steve Lukather/Alice Cooper) after not only being impressed with his work on numerous albums as a producer but also with his amazing bass playing skills. Fabrizio has worked with some of the biggest names in the most diverse music genres (George Clinton, Ice T and Cypress Hill are among his endless list of collaborations) and after hearing Giancarlo’s demos put together an incredible band to back up the project along with himself playing bass duties and producing the resulting debut CD.

Alex De Rosso joined Faithsedge on guitar. Having handled live lead guitar duties in Dokken, with whom he toured the world and shared the stage with the likes of Scorpions, Whitesnake, Ratt, Warrant and Firehouse among others, Alex has also played on many critically acclaimed albums with artists such as Joseph Williams (Toto/Disney’s The Lion King), Kelly Hansen (Foreigner/Hurricane) and Pamela Moore (also known as Sister Mary from Queensryche’s concept album ‘Operation: Mindcrime’).

Tony Morra completes the line-up on drums. Tony owns his own studio in Nashville, Tennessee, the Downtown Batterie and has played with many great artists such as Rebecca St James and Van Zant among others. He is also credited for playing on the Grammy Award winning album ‘Songs From The Neighborhood – A Tribute To Fred Rogers’ in 2006 and for touring as a member of pop legend Stevie B’s band and Sweet Sensation. Tony has also played drums for different movie soundtracks such as ‘Chronicles Of Narnia’ and ‘Just Married’ to name a few .

The resulting effort is a perfect mix of hard rock, heavy metal and progressive, with lots of vocals and hooks, shredding guitar solos, pounding bass and drums and plenty of melodically challenging songwriting. ‘Faithsedge’ was mastered by Tom Baker of Precision Mastering (Judas Priest/Motley Crue).

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Faithsedge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.