There is more than one artist with this name. Not to be confused with the Chicago-based punk rock supergroup The Falcon:

1) Falcon is Nathan Kozlowski, a Trance producer from Portland, Oregon.  He started releasing music in 2011 and is currently still active.

2) Falcon is/was a member of the late-90s/early-2000s "Pulse" PC demogroup, and is likely best known for his score to the "Aural Sunflower" demo.

3) Falcon is a heavy metal band consisting of
Perry Grayson (ex-Isen Torr, ex-Pale Divine) - Guitar, Vocals (2002-present)
Greg Lindstrom (ex-Cirith Ungol) - Bass, Keyboards (2002-present)
Darin McCloskey (Pale Divine, Crowned in Earth) - Drums (2003-present)

Perry Grayson founded Falcon together with Greg Lindstrom (one of the founding members of Cirith Ungol) and Darin McCloskey (Pale Divine) to make heavy rock in the style of the 70s. They're also doing some Cirith Ungol songs that never got properly recorded in a studio. Falcon have released a demo in 2003 and two albums, self-titled debut in 2004 and "Die Wontcha" in 2008. 

4) Falcon is an indie rock band from Brooklyn, NY which takes their name from Jared Falcon who had written every song of theirs between 1986 - 1988. Jared Falcon is not in the band. He wrote all the songs in high school and recorded them on a Fisher Price tape recorder. The tape recorder was discovered, the band formed.. magic ensued. Current members are Shannon, Jason, Neil, and Christian.  

5) Falcon was the name of a late 80s/early 90s dance act whose biggest hit was Out Of Control.
The track was popular on pirate radio stations, particularly in the West Midlands, England.

6) Falcon is the MC name of Eddie Falcone, an anarchist hip-hop artist from San Francisco.

7) Falcon is a Dutch Drum and Bass producer: http://www.discogs.com/artist/Falcon, who released numerous Tracks on Citrus Recordings between 2001 - 2005.

8) Falcon is a Drum and Bass producer. Formerly known as Mister Falcon, he made his debut in 2019 with his track “Time”, which was released on Frequency Music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Falcon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.