Rising from the San Francisco Bay Area, Falling to Pieces exploded onto the Northern California metal scene in 2004. After releasing their debut recording "The EP to Kill By" in 2005, and full length "Left to Rust" in 2007, FTP shot to the forefront of the Bay Area music landscape. "Left to Rust" brought the band much acclaim and helped widen their fan base, both domestically and overseas. After some member shifts and changes, the band would solidify its line-up in 2008 with the additions of female vocalist Nicci D. and guitarist Scott Danough (co-founder and long-time member of Bleeding Through). The band’s latest release, 2009’s "Awaken the Weak", combines Nicci's wicked screams and beautiful clean singing (both of which can compete with any of today’s leading ladies of metal) with the band's unique blend of thrash oriented, melodic, and brutally groove driven song writing. With tracks like "Population One" and "A Beautiful Demise," the music of Falling to Pieces appeals to metal fans of any genre, as well as maintaining the ability to capture non-metal fans alike. Having hundreds of high energy live performances under their belts and a steadily expanding fan base, this band continues to grow and relentlessly fights to bring their brand of brutal to the masses. With their crowd influencing stage presence and pummeling live show, refined music ability on stage and in the studio, DIY mentality and road-readiness, Falling to Pieces never disappoints.

**Update November 7th, 2010**: Unfortunately, and with much regret, an official announcement was made regarding Nicci D.'s passing away in the early morning hours on Saturday, November 6th, 2010 due to a fatal motorcycle accident. Falling to Pieces was in the process of tracking and recording a new album. It is unknown if they will continue with the endeavor, and unknown if they will seek a new vocalist. R.I.P. Nicci D. 

www.myspace.com/fallingtopieces
www.facebook.com/fallingtopieces
www.reverbnation.com/fallingtopieces <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Falling+To+Pieces">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.