The are various artists and bands (8 listed here) using the name Fallen Angels

1) The Fallen Angels was formed in 1984 with Knox (singer/songwriter from the Vibrators) on vocals and guitar, with the Hanoi Rocks rhythm section of Sam Yaffa on bass, the late Razzle on drums, and Nasty Suicide on rhythm and some lead guitar. Also guesting on the first album were Cosmic Ted and the Psychedelic Kid, (Michael Monroe and Andy McCoy respectively). The band came about because Knox was on the same management as Hanoi Rocks and had a lot of songs he wanted to do. One of Hanoi's manager's Richard Bishop had the bright idea of putting Knox together with Hanoi Rocks to record an album. 
 
The album was rehearsed and recorded at the now legendary Alaska Studios down under the arches at Waterloo, London. The album band never played live though Nasty Suicide did guest at a London gig. 
 
The first release was the single "Amphetamine Blue" (FALL 022) followed by the album "FALLEN ANGELS" (FALL LP 23) (with a cover painting by Knox depicting a murder scene outside the 100 Club in London's Oxford Street), and then the single and 12" "Inner Planet Love/Precious Heart" 
 
Knox then put a line up together to do live work in the UK which comprised of Knox (vocals/guitar), Matt Kellett (guitar), Mark Duncan (bass) and Knox's cousin Richard Wernham (ex-Motors, drums). 
 
Two more albums were recorded, this time for Jungle, Fallout's sister label. "IN LOVING MEMORY" (FREUD 12) (1986) (featuring a painting by Knox on the cover of 'Jesus' with an electric guitar in front of New York) was a more introspective pop album than the first. It also featured Andy McCoy and Nasty Suiside on guitars. The third (and last album) was called "WHEEL OF FORTUNE" (FREUD 23) (1989) and also had Nasty Suicide guesting on guitar. It too was a fairly introspective pop album. There was also a 12" single "Clouds" (JUNG 41T) (1988) released from the album recording sessions, and a 7" single "Teenage" (JUNG 47) (1989). 
 
The band played a few more gigs including two festivals in Greece, and ended up as a three-piece before calling it a day as there didn't seem to be enough interest in them. 

2) The name used by Drum 'n' Bass producers Alex Reece and Wax Doctor for a variety of releases on a variety of labels. For a list of releases check the discography at RollDaBeats.

3) A country act who released an album circa 2001 under this name in the Apple iTunes store

4) A semi-obscure D.C. area psych rock band from the late 60s-70s.

5) A Bulgarian heavy metal band.

6) The former name of melodic death band Sonic Syndicate

7) A '80s thrash metal band from USA (Seattle, Washington), formed in 2002.

CURRENT LINE-UP:
Brad Kennaugh (vocals)
Erik Hansen (guitar, backing vocals)
Rob Steinway (guitar)
Carl Larsson (bass)
Brian Hansen (drums)

BIOGRAPHY
FALLEN ANGELS was formed in the recesses of western Washington in 2002 by brothers Erik (guitar, vocals) and Brian Hansen (drums), and influenced by such classic thrash bands as SLAYER, SEPULTURA, EXODUS, MEGADETH, to name but a few. Their sound quickly developed and was only strengthened by the addition of the greatly talented Jeremiah Reiman (guitar) and Carl Larsson (bass, ex-member of SKELATOR, EVANGELIST, WAKING HOUR).

Late spring of 2004 saw FALLEN ANGELS entering Crisma Studios to record their first 10 track demo entitled "Cries Of War". Sensing a declining interest and input, the band decided to part ways with Jeremiah. After auditioning several guitarists, Adam Bath accepted the invitation and was welcomed by all involved into the FALLEN ANGELS family, bringing forth new ideas and energy to the band.

December 2004 saw the band playing direct support to two legendary bands in the scene, L.A. speedsters HIRAX and Seattle's own THE ACCUSED at the Seattle Metal Fest. It was there, after a guest vocal appearance, that Brad Kennaugh (member of SEMESUS and DISINTERMENT) was asked to fill the vocalist position full-time, which had been handled by Erik up until that point. After declining the initial invitation, Brad chose to join, thus completing the line-up of the band.

In 2005 FALLEN ANGELS released their second 4 track demo. During this period the band opened for TESTAMENT and SADUS as well as thrashed their way around the Puget Sound area.

Soon Adam left to pursue other musical endeavors, and Rob Steinway (member of INQUINOK, SHADED ENMITY, IN MEMORIUM, ex-FUNERAL AGE, ex-EVANGELIST) joined as second lead guitarist. From the time Brad and Rob entered the band, everyone was being exposed to new unheard bands and the FALLEN ANGELS style really started to develop. A dash of PESTILENCE mixed with DEMOLITION HAMMER, an ounce of DEATH and heaping pile of Bay Area thrash is the concoction that FALLEN ANGELS currently utilizes.

Garnering a growing respect from their peers in the Seattle metal scene and new fans with every show, FALLEN ANGELS have become poised to take a key role in the world wide thrash scene. They have fast become a force to be reckoned with, able to pack as much of a punch as the founding fathers of thrash all while proving the metal underground is growing stronger now than it ever was in Seattle.

FALLEN ANGELS' debut album "Rise From Ashes" will see the light of day in September 2008.

8) Fallen Angels (2011 - Present) was formed as part of a High School music project in 2011, eventually signing with Moosick Productions and releasing their first track "God Bless The Dead"  in 2012 as a tribute to the lives lost in the Christchurch Earthquake.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fallen+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.