In late summer 1998, Fall Of Serenity was born from the remains of Contrition.

"The first recordings were already done in December 1998, at the Rape Of Harmonies studio in Triptis - Germany. Our buddy Olivé from Geneva/Switzerland offered us to bring out our material on his small label x83xrecords, as a vinyl-only release. The record called "Smoldering Doom" was limited to 500 copies, 100 of them grey-marble, and was released in January 2000. Still in 1998 we were back at the Rape Of Harmonies studio, to begin recording a split 12" (vinyl-only as well) with the guys from Heaven Shall Burn. This record, "The Heaven Shall Burn / Fall Of Serenity split LP", was released in summer 2000 on Deeds Of Revolution Records. During these split-recordings, René, good friend and official Fall Of Serenity roady, did some back-up vocals... which we quite liked, so we decided to offer him a job as additional full-time vocalist. Early November we decided to record a new demo that would represent our current musical status, which had developed into serious death-metal by then. Again, the four "Demonstration Tracks 2000" were recorded at the Rape Of Harmonies studio. Those studio-session were Andreas' last musical contribution to Fall Of Serenity. He decided to quit the band because it was hard for him to equally focus on his job and Fall Of Serenity. Of course he still hangs out with us and supports us whenever necessary. His goodbye-show was on the 11th of November 2000. There, we introduced our new member John to the crowd."

"The next important step in the Fall Of Serenity history was, when Frank from Voice Of Life Records got his hands on one of our demos and made us an offer we could not refuse. In December 2001 the debut album "Grey Man's Requiem" was finally released and got remarkably good reviews worldwide. Since then Fall Of Serenity has been busy writing new songs and playing live-shows as often as possible. But 2002 was also the year of saying goodbye to one of the band's vocalists. Lars decided to leave the band because he was unable to make it to many shows, not to speak of practising sessions, since he had moved to Cologne earlier this year. Fall Of Serenity decided to continue with the one remaining singer René and not to look for a replacement. About one year later, Frank told us we were unable to continue with Voice Of Life Records, so we were forced to find an alternative. Peter from Metal Age Productions, offered us to release our second album... and so he did. To promote the record (called "Royal Killing") we toured across Europe with Dismember and played tons of smaller club shows and festivals (with bands like Vader, Dimension Zero, Marduk, Malevolent Creation, Arcturus, Secrets Of The Moon, God Dethroned, Primordial, Kataklysm, Behemoth, Naglfar, Disbelief, Dew Scented) etc."

Fall Of Serenity disbanded January 2009, due to undisclosed reasons. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fall+of+Serenity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.