Fall of Eden started in 2003, in Downers Grove, IL. Their musical style has been described as melodic-metal, folk metal, Viking metal, melodic-death metal, brutal speed metal, etc… They are a fast, powerful, guitar centered style of metal, influenced by bands such as Iron Maiden, Amon Amarth, Sonata Arctica, Children of Bodom, and In Flames as well as a strong classical influence. Since 2004, they have played two United States tours, opened up for Dark Tranquility, Opeth, Devin Townsend, Finntroll, and Devil Driver. And they have recorded two full length, two Eps, and dozens of self recorded demos

FALL OF EDEN IS:
Russ Knöbel-Bass and Vocals
Taylor Cooper-Guitars, Keys and Vocals
Evan Howe-Drums

““Sounds like classicly trained European artistry.””
Al Bowman - Los Angeles Music Awards

“Fantastic!! Hoist The Sails!! ”
J-Rock - The Rock Solid Pressure Show

“If you’re a fan of technically proficient melodic death metal and folk metal, Illinois 5-piece Fall of Eden may be just what the doctor ordered. Sonically similar to bands like Krisium, Ensiferum, In Flames and Blackguard with even some Alcest as well, this young act surprised me with the sheer skill demonstrated on the single and humorously titled “Wargasm”. The guitars are both frantic and disciplined with intriguing melodic elements and crushing rhythmic playing. Very interesting music overall here, and it makes the band a good listen even for those who dabble in metal. Progressive rock fans, especially would appreciate them. The production is fairly high and every musician is dead on. The vocals are mainly death metal screams and growls, and they work well, not deviating from the pure stylistic approach and heavy metal spirit of the music. Recommended for any metal fans.”
James Moore - Independent Music Promotions

“Few bands get it right first time, but Fall of Eden have shown a talent for song writing since their early demos and EPs. Their sound is very guitar orientated, centred around riffs that are catchier than herpes, with intricately harmonised guitars and a rumbling rhythmic section. Their attention to composition allows the band to utilise clean and aggressive vocal styles in a way that is both interesting and effective. With their 2007 debut album Dawn of a New Age the band’s Scandinavian and folk metal influences in particular became apparent as they moved in a slightly more fast-paced direction, with even more attention given to the melodic lead parts. ”
Ryan Neal - OneMetal.com

“It seems like we say this every now and then, but the US has a fair share of great new metal bands. From a small town in Illinois comes Fall Of Eden, a folk/death band with musicianship that takes the Pagan style into a different stratosphere. With monstrous growls, wild solos and a battery of drums, "The Warrior" lives up to its name.”
Sorrow Eternal Blog

"Wargasm" is the third song on the tracklist. It begins with characteristic black metal atmospheres, these coincide with a wall of brutal speed metal drums that are accompanied by not much slower guitar riffs and a lead guitar melody all falling into singularity. A careful listener however may also catch progressive metal influences in both the lead guitar and bass tracks. Since Russ plays bass and performs vocals in the band, the song arrangements were tailor made so he can easily switch between performance duties. It might have otherwise been quite a complex task to play the bass while growling lyrics, especially live. "Wargasm" is a composition that dominates in mood. It is strongly animated and filled with heavy, rough, yet smooth virtuoso guitar riffs. Because of this, many fans of metal music will be convinced to reach out for The Warrior album, which is available at most major on-line stores.
Katarzyna NINa Górnisiewicz - Fabryka Magazine

“Shred like a Viking! As fast as Odin's spear and just as strong, it pierces right through you with it's skillful "Dare I say genius at some point". musicianship. Highly recommended for the fans of viking metal, melodic death metal, and even to the fans of Megadeth, Blind Guardian and Manowar”
Encyclopaedia Metallum

“It makes me want to head bang and folk dance at the same time. Long Boats on Lake Michigan?! Say it isn't so! But alas, the next best Viking Folk Metal band is NOT from Finland but from Downers Grove, Illinois! ”
Victoria Anderson - The Kali Diaries

“Fall of Eden: When epic metal meets brutal hardcore.”
The TLP Network

“Harmonizing guitars, rhythmic, hard hitting drumming that keeps the songs going, a harsh, abusive vocal style, and to top it off...A group of musicians who paid more attention to writing catchy, exceptionally structured songs rather than grinding at a million miles an hour. Everyone keep an eye and ear out for Fall Of Eden”
Brutalism

“Fall Of Eden has no shortness of melody and catchy integrated riffs to latch onto.... I can't wait to hear more from this band, if they keep at it they will get the recognition they are looking for.”
Adrenalin Fanzine

“If you're a fan of any kind of tech. metal, or if you just like to hear some extremely well crafted metal, Fall Of Eden deserves your time and attention”
Loudisde

“Fall of Eden has potential to become big!! Fall of Eden is very unique and a breath of fresh air in the music industry. This band has great song-writing skills and the production isn't bad, but with a bigger budget and some help these guys could definitely compete with the big dogs.”
Jason Z. - TURKEY VULTURE RECORDS

“Hard hitting heavy metal. ”
Aaron Joy - Roman Midnight Music <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fall+of+Eden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.