Heavy Metal band Fallen Sanctuary was officially founded in 2003 by bothers James Dezarn and William Dezarn. Their sound is basically traditional Metal with new eyes, incorporating elements of Power Metal, Thrash, and Death Metal with some technical musical elements, as well as very thought provoking lyrics with a powerful vocal delivery. The members of Fallen Sanctuary have over a decade of experience working together in bands, building strong writing, business, and live performance abilities. Their experience creates a synergy of creativity that gives this American Metal band its own unique space within the Metal music world.

In 2005, the two members, with their multi-instrument capabilities, recorded their first full-length release "Theories of Ruin". The brothers performed all instruments themselves and also recorded it in their own studio. Great attention to detail was paid during the song writing and recording process to produce the best album possible, with no compromises. Since it's release, the debut album "Theories of Ruin" has garnered a great deal of praise from across the globe.

After the 2007 release of their "Poison Dreams" demo, the duo began working on material for a new album in early 2009.

In 2010, the brothers produced and recorded their first concept album "Malevolent Symmetry", the long-awaited full-length follow-up to "Theories of Ruin". With even more crushing riffs, dynamic vocals, memorably melodic leads and twin harmonies, coupled with a brutal, technical rhythm section, "Malevolent Symmetry" propels Fallen Sanctuary to a whole new level. The Malevolent Symmetry concept is about a future world of genetic degeneration and scientific malpractice, delivering interesting, bleak musings into the risks of genetic manipulation. With this latest release, Fallen Sanctuary has broadened their own horizons of what imagination and music is capable of. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fallen+Sanctuary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.