There are more than one band by the name of Fall From Grace:


1) Fall From Grace was born in the musical bed of Seattle, Washington. Fall From Grace, an alternative rock quintet, are a living, breathing outcome of the indie pop culture, punk rock, and grunge melting pot that is the music metropolis of Seattle. Fall From Grace live and play in the underbelly of the Seattle scene, hitting clubs and breathing life into a new movement they are constantly building, one that is breaking through with the help of acts like Amber Pacific, Acceptance, and the Classic Crime.

Fall From Grace’s emotion-filled alternative rock sound is exemplified by their non-stop action packed live performance. Front man Tryg Littlefield and lead guitarist Brian Olson command the mob of crazed fans, much like Steven Tyler and Joe Perry. Fall From Grace’s songs are packed with emotion-filled melodies that hit home to their sea of fans, creating crowd clapped choruses and sing alongs. To someone that has never heard Fall From Grace’s music, one fan describes their music as, “…the feeling you get when you leave the greatest rock show you've ever seen.”

Their cult following continues to grow as the band tours non-stop. Fall From Grace has had the privilege to play alongside heavy hitters such as Katy Perry, CKY, Hail The Villain, ASG, Alesana, and Protest the Hero coast to coast in clubs and festivals such as Warped Tour across America, Canada, and in Europe. A dream came true for Fall From Grace when they had the opportunity to play in front of 80,000 people at the Download Festival (Castle Donnington, England) with such acts like Faith No More, Buckcherry, Papa Roach, ZZ Top, Marilyn Manson, and Motley Crue.

Fall From Grace is now part of the Road 2 Hell Rekkids roster (an indie label based in Seattle, Washington), and they are ready to take their message to a whole new level with the release of their 3rd full length album “The Romance Years” available nationwide and online on iTunes early 2012. Fall From Grace have faced the darkest of times together and have spun it in a way that brings the message of hope and happiness to all who hear it. We hope you enjoy your Fall From Grace.




2) Danish quartet Fall From Grace equals romantic, emotive rock with embers of alternative metal/post-grunge. The music entails the contrast between the mellow and melancholic beauty of serene guitar parts combined with an attack of distorted guitar passages . Songs encompassing the withering of a deep-felt love relationship and the capture of the heartache. Fall From Grace compose music with inspiration from a post-modern existence. The lyrics centre on emotions and personal relations. Fall From Grace try to depict sentiments lyrically as well as melodically.



3) Stoner/Doom Metal band from Metairie, Louisiana.
When Exhorder was disbanding, guitarist Jay Ceravolo tried to keep the band together while searching for a suitable lead singer. Wil Buras was the singer Ceravolo wanted to be in charge of vocal duties, but Buras asked Ceravolo to join the band he was forming. Hence Fall From Grace was created. After recording some demo material in 1995, they signed to Fierce Records and recorded their debut full-length in 1997.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fall+From+Grace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.