FALLEN SENTINEL was born in 1997, evoluting from a previous death metal band from Vigo (Spain).

After some years searching for the best musicians for this ambitious project, in 2000, "Inert", their first studio work, came out, followed by several live shows, such as when sharing the stage with Inmortal (NO) and Primordial (IR) at Hard Club in Porto (Portugal) and a lot of interviews and reviews in TV, radio shows and magazines such as Metal Hammer.

In 2001, FS were back in the studio to record and mix their new album at Elite Studios with Néstor Alonso, as the result of being the winners of the “Revoltallo – Ciudad de Vigo” contest, were they competed against another 18 bands from all the north-west of Spain.

The album was only released in early 2004, as in late 2002 some musicians left the band and the search for new ones led to the band staying inactive until they could find replacements.

"Eternity & Before" took a step further from the original musical creativity of the band. It is a semi-conceptual record, where a 20 minutes long song divided into 6 parts is included, and the listener can apreciate, as in the whole album, the richness of the musical composition and the evocatively poetic lyrics. It was a complete success, receiving a lot of excellent comments from the metal fans and specialized critics, not only national ( 6/6 rating in the most read spanish metal magazine: Heavy-Rock) but also international: (Mexico, Argentina, Cuba, Germany, Holland, Italy, Greece, …), and the second track of the album was included in the “Metal Ostentation Compilation, Part V" (2005) from Enclave Records.

After some shows with very talented bands such as Eternal Mourning (PO), Avulsed, Ebony Ark, Deathless, Elderdawn, Scent of Death, ... and another few changes in the line up, a new album had been written and the recordings began in late 2005 at the studio of Alberto Sixto, the assistant of "Eternity & Before". They were difficult recordings and it was not ready to be mixed the summer '06, but the first mix was very dissapointing. After trying with several producers during several months (even some Berklee graduated), finally Rubén Alonso, bassist and vocalist of the band, took control and successfully finished the never-ending oddysey in 2009 at Estudios Musicales Metropolis (Vigo), leaving the mastering to Chris Daniels at Organised Rhyme (Brighton / UK).

However, despite the time spent on the mixing of the new album, Fallen Sentinel did not stop playing live, and were the headliner of the "Gallaecian Metal Fest '07" the best non-pro musicians open air metal fest ever done in the north-west of Spain.

And, one year later, some weeks after being voted the 2nd best band ever in Vigo by the readers of one of the most important newspapers in Spain: La Voz de Galicia; Fallen Sentinel plays at Alternavigo, the biggest pro metal fest ever done in the north-west of Spain, sharing the stage with Cradle of Filth, Overkill, Gamma Ray, Primal Fear, Cynic, Exodus, and 3 Inches of Blood.

After a 2009 in stand-by due to the professional commitments of some of the musicians, the band was back on stage, introducing the new album: "Perpetual", in February 2010, playing in 2 shows with Suidakra in Spain. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fallen+Sentinel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.