Fall of Empyrean was established in the year 2000, to this day depressing the world with its effective brand of emotional doom/death metal. Throughout the years, the band has gained a strong following throughout not only the United States, but also mainland Europe, Scandinavia, Russia and the Baltic states, Japan, South Korea, South America, Mexico, Australia, and a number of other countries. The band has established itself as a mainstay of the US doom metal scene, rising quickly in the ranks.

Over the course of its existence, Fall of Empyrean has released three CDs: a self-titled demo, and two full-length albums: Anhedonia (2002) and A Darkness Remembered (2004). A Darkness Remembered was released worldwide by Oak Knoll Productions, with distribution through a number of labels, distros, and record stores. Anhedonia was re-released in 2003 by Russian label CD-Maximum, with the self-titled demo included as bonus tracks. The band's releases have all been critically well-received, with dozens of reviews, interviews, and radio exposure throughout the world and via Internet radio. In one of the band's greatest accomplishments, A Darkness Remembered was named doom metal album of the year by European magazine, Metal Maniac Magazine, receiving a rating of 9 out of 10—the highest score given at the time.

In 2007, the band finished writing, recording, mixing, and mastering their third full-length album, A Life Spent Dying, with Ryan Butler of Arcane Digital Recording studios, in Chandler, Arizona. In early 2009, Fall of Empyrean signed a four-album deal with Germany's Grau Records, with A Life Spent Dying to be released first, later in 2009. The band continues strong, rehearsing for shows and promotions for their upcoming album. 

The band consists of:

Richard Medina - vocals
Justin Burning - guitar
Ron Clark - guitar 
Daniel Sobeck - bass
Kevin Leeds - keyboard
Andy York - drums


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fall+of+Empyrean">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.