Thrash metal is not dead: it is evolving. As similar sounding metal bands continue to break into the mainstream scene today, one underground band, Fallen Martyr is simply shredding its own way through a growing number of speakers cranked to capacity. 

Inspired by the classic work of Dream Theater, Testament and Arch Enemy, the band also draws upon the progressive influence of Opeth to deliver a new sound. Fans that dig smart lyrics and riffs played in a modern style nodding back to the 80s are uniting to support Fallen Martyr. Started in 2005 by Doug (bass) and Gabriel (lead guitar) in Maryland, the duo sought out technical expertise with Ryan (vocals) from the Musician’s Institute in Hollywood to bring in crushing screams and melodic interludes to the intertwined digital assault of Gabriel and Mikey (second lead guitar). With the addition of Jake (drums), the band began working on its first five-song EP, “The Six Roots of True Will," which will be released on June 5, 2009.

Support for the band’s live set continues propelling Fallen Martyr to larger audiences. Emerging from a competition with several other bands in May, Fallen Martyr won the right to introduce their EP on the main stage of the Summer Slaughter Tour in Baltimore.

There is little doubt why Fallen Martyr is successful: it is a pure, energetic and sometimes daring type of metal capable of transcending predictability. Songs off of the EP like the six minute song, “the Man Becomes the Prophet,” display the band’s accessible beat that also gets gritty with the kind of technical guitar work and powerful vocals that any metal fan will like. In another song, “Like a Sinking Feeling,” strong build-ups and powerful hooks root a song that is strung together with creative, progressive lyrics and guitar solos that will surprise the listener. Smart lyrics that describe the steps to personal enlightenment and complex song structures that bypass the same-old loud/distorted chord progressions will keep listeners glued to the rest of the EP and wanting the next release. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fallen+Martyr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.