Falling Insane is a Death Metal/Deathcore band from Mexico City.
The band originally was formed in mid 2010 but officially gave their first live performance in February 2011, originally formed by Drummer Joshua, Bassist Toño and Guitarist Ibra. On that same year Guitarist Eric and Keyboardist Tona joined having Luis as the first vocalist.
After 2 practicing lessons, Luis had to leave the band so the vocals were taken by Tona leaving the band with no keyboards. With that lineup they did several live performances in several Hardcore/Metalcore  events in The Clandestino and others. After some few months they recorded and released their first promotional Demo with 5 original songs in 2011.
On that same year they were the second place in a Band contest sponsored by Hikari Studios which allowed them to record their first single Hipopotomonstrosexypedialofobia as the prize for that contest.
After that second release they performed for one entire year on different live shows including the 3 Dioses Fest.
After several live performances with bands like Facing My Fears, Distorhead and Behold the Ocean their lead vocalist had to leave the band for personal reasons and the band had to search for a new vocalist. In that same month Garnica was added to the band and they performed several live shows in Presidentes and La Vieja Escuela sometimes with Tona as a guest singer.
Some time after Garnica had to leave the band and they added May as their lead vocalist and that changed the band sound from Groove Metal to Deathcore recording 2 new singles promoting the band, 29A and Sarasate between 2012 and 2013. 29 A was released in physical format as a Mexican Metal compilation disc from United Revolution recorded in Casino Studios.
Currently the band is on hold but active in the studio to release a full length record.

Meet them at https://www.facebook.com/FallingInsane/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Falling+Insane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.