Fanfarlo is a British-based indie pop indie-folk band formed in 2006 in London, England, by by Swedish musician Simon Balthazar. The band consists of Simon Balthazar (vocals, guitar, clarinet), Cathy Lucas (vocals, mandolin, violin, keyboards), Leon Beckenham (keyboards, trumpet), Justin Finch (bass, vocals) and Amos Memon (drums). Mark West (guitar, keyboards) left the band in 2008 and formed The Lost Cavalry in 2009. The band's name is a reference to Charles Baudelaire's novella, "La Fanfarlo."

After issuing the singles Talking Backwards, You Are One Of The Few Outsiders Who Really Understands Us, Fire Escape and Harold T. Wilkins on four independent labels between 2006 and 2008, Fanfarlo travelled to Peter Katis's studio in Connecticut, USA to record their debut album, Reservoir. The album was self-released in February 2009 to coincide with a tour of England and Scotland, including dates supporting Snow Patrol. They also performed five shows at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas in March.

In an effort to spread the word as far as possible and make their music as 
accessible as possible, Fanfarlo decided to offer their latest album, Reservoir, as a $1 download on http://fanfarlo.com until 7/4/09.

In May, Moshi Moshi will release Fanfarlo's fifth single, Drowning Men, on 7" while Reservoir will again be self-released as a special 'box' edition of 500 CDs.

Fanfarlo will be appearing at select festivals over the summer including the Hinterland Festival on April 30th in Glasgow with further dates to be announced.

Their second album Rooms Filled With Light was Released Feburary 28,2012. 

On 10 February 2014 the band released third regular studio album, titled "Let's Go Extinct" on their own New World Records label.

In 2016, Balthazar collaborated with King Knut, as SWOON and released the single "Heatwave". Since 2015, Lucas has been the lead singer and guitarist for the psychedelic pop group Vanishing Twin.

http://www.fanfarlo.com

http://www.myspace.com/fanfarlo <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fanfarlo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.