FannyPack were an electro/miami booty bass-rap group that consisted of singers/rappers Jessibel Suthiwong, Cat Hartwell and Belinda Lovell along with producers/DJs Matt Goias (AKA Big Black Matt) and Fancy, all from New York City.

Goias and Fancy wanted to create a girl group. When they talked to Tom Silverman of Tommy Boy Records, he loved the idea. They then recruited Cat Hartwell, whom Matt and Fancy already knew, to join the group. Jessibel Suthiwong joined later, when Fancy and Matt found her by chance at The Fulton Street Mall in Brooklyn yelling to her friend. Afterwards, Jessibel recruited Belinda Lovell, a friend from her gym class to the group. Belinda explains how Jessibel talked her into joining FannyPack: "I was at the water fountain getting a drink of water when Jessibel comes up to me and says, 'Yo, Belinda, are you black or Indian or what?'" She remembers. "I was like, 'I'm both. Why you asking?' And she said, 'Come be in my group!'" When all the key elements had finally come together, FannyPack was born. FannyPack have a very diverse frame; Cat is Irish, Jessibel is half-Puerto Rican and half-Thai and Belinda is half African-American and West Indian.

In 2003, the album, So Stylistic, debuted with the hit song, Cameltoe.

2005 marked their comeback with the album See You Next Tuesday.

Also in 2005, Cat Hartwell started a new band called Holy Hail.

Their song "Hey Mami" was used in the film The Fast & The Furious: Tokyo Drift, and "Seven One Eight" from See You Next Tuesday was featured in the film I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry. More recently however it was featured as the soundtrack to the advert for Young Mums' Mansion on BBC Three.

Their song "Cameltoe" was featured in the movie Harold & Kumar Go To White Castle. And their song "Things" samples the Yeah Yeah Yeah's song "Art Star". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fannypack">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.