On 8th March 1986 three 18-year-olds Grzegorz Obroślak (Greg), Mariusz Ostęp (Mary) i Wojtek Sekuła (Seki) met in Lublin to rehearse together for the first time. It ended with a THRASH metal band called FANTOM brought to life. At that time our first instrumental composition appeared out of joining these two words. When to our surprise it turned out that there are already thousands of bands called FANTOM in the world we changed the name into FANTHRASH. The band's line-up crystallized in September when our drummer Jacek Wróblewski (Siwy) and later our vocal master Less joined us. In the autumn of 1987 Less left us and Greg took over his duties as the band's vocalist till the end of the first life of FANTHRASH i.e. 1992. Earlier in 1990 the band recorded a three-song demo in MDK studio. Unfortunately quite soon the hardships of everyday life brought us down to earth so much that we couldn't keep the instruments in our hands and so the years passed.

At the dawn of the new millennium Greg began waking up from his stupor and new lyrics appeared. Later he grabbed his guitar and from his head and from his heart new sounds started coming out. His thoughts were no longer only around the prosaic aspects of life and the need to survive another day. The yearning - an inner impulse of artistic expression sprang up. The process which started couldn't be stopped. The will to come back was too strong and against all odds Greg together with Mary (with whom he stayed in touch all the time) reactivated FANTHRASH. Laborious yet creative and invigorating work on new compositions, lyrics and arrangements started. The dream came true in 2007 when the band was back with regular rehearsals.

Now, with Wojtek Piłat (Pilate) as the guitarist and Less, again as the lead singer, Greg and Mary are carrying out their creative vision of metal AD 2010 with its harbinger - a freshly released EP Trauma Despotic. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fanthrash">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.