The Far East Movement (also known as FM), hailing from the clubs and streets of Los Angeles, California, United States, are one of the freshest crews representing the next generation of artists and “fly music.” Members Kev Nish, Prohgress, J-Splif, and DJ Virman have created a huge industry buzz with major companies, radio stations, and club DJs worldwide through their international appeal and energetic live shows. 

Finding their inspiration from the diverse city blocks and night club scene of Southern California, FM has built a strong internet fan base and a new lifestyle brand for the next generation of youth around the world. “The Far East Movement is the name for our music, lifestyle, and our party. For the diverse music fan that hits up 3 clubs in 1 night, tuned to the racing scene and fashion, and back on the computer religiously checking blogs and sites for anything related to that.”- FM

FM has embarked on 2 World Tours (including the USA, South America, Canada, Europe and Asia) and recently featured on the 35 city Party Rock Tour with LMFAO, signed distribution deals in Japan and Korea (Avex Network and JF Productions respectively), garnered multiple features on MTV World, and also featured music on worldwide media such as FOX’s “So You Think You Can Dance”, MTV’s “America’s Best Dance Crew”, ABC Family’s Lincoln Heights, CBS Primetime shows “CSI: Miami” and “CSI: NY”, multiple placements on HBO’s “Entourage”, “Fast & Furious Tokyo Drift” and “Finishing the Game” (a featured film at Sundance 2007). FM was also the first Asian act to perform at the Sundance Film Festival’s prestigious Music Café Gala hosted by ASCAP, and was also recently a featured act at the Cannes Film Festival in France. As producers, FM worked with Jin the Emcee to create ABC JIN, an award-winning, platinum album that broke records for first week sales in Hong Kong.

In the world of marketing, the Far*East Movement has been sought out by major companies to endorse their products. They worked with McDonalds as celebrity judges and were featured artists for the national Big Mac Chant campaign and spokespersons/tour headliners for McDonald’s Lost Ring campaign during the 2008 Olympics. FM was also a featured artist for Verizon Wireless’s LG Dare ‘Touch One’ Campaign. They’ve also co-created a series of live concerts with Wong Fu Productions to benefit community outreach called the International Secret Agents with endorsements by JCPenney and Verizon.

Far East Movement’s single “Girls On The Dance Floor” has taken over clubs and radio stations around the world, reaching #1 on Los Angeles radio and charting on the Billboard Charts. On February 12th, 2010, the Far East Movement officially signed their first major label record deal with Cherrytree / Interscope Records. After 2 independent album releases and a rigorous tour schedule, the Far East Movement is in the studio working with the Stereotypes (Production team) on their 3rd album and first major release in 2010.

The original members of Far East Movement, Kevin Nishimura (Kev Nish), James Roh (Prohgress), and Jae Choung (J-Splif), grew up in Koreatown, Los Angeles, California. They were close companions in high school and shared a passion for music together. The trio promoted their music online and began performing at local clubs and events in Los Angeles; soon, they began their musical career with the name "Emcee's Anonymous" by 2001. However, they later changed it to Far East Movement or FM, originating from a song that they produced with the same name. In 2003, they organized together an event called "Movementality" in Koreatown, LA, featuring ten different performances with all the proceeds sent to a local youth drug rehabilitation center. On September 21, 2016, S.M Entertainment, one of the largest entertainment companies in South Korea, announced that Chanyeol, from popular K-pop band EXO, would be collaborating with Far East Movement in their track "Freal Luv", which also features Tinashe and Marshmello.[26]

On October 10, 2016, Starship Entertainment announced that Hyolyn, from K-pop girl-group Sistar, would be featured in a new song titled "Umbrella".

Both songs were included in the band's fifth studio album, Identity, released on October 21. It features various Korean artists, such as Tiffany from Girls' Generation, rappers Yoon Mi-rae, Jay Park, Loco and R&B group Urban Zakapa, along with American singer-songwriter Macy Gray, rapper Soulja Boy and credits from British singer-producer MNEK. Identity debuted at #1 on the global iTunes dance charts.[citation needed] The music video for "Freal Luv" was viewed over 30 million times on YouTube.

On October 14, 2016, Far East Movement released "We Out Here" featuring Blackbear and Thurz.

On November 23, 2016, Far East Movement announced that J-Splif had left the group due to family reasons.

On October 26, 2018, Far East Movement released a song titled "Bamboo" which features vocals from Jason Zhang and Kina Grannis.

On February 8, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Blossoms" which features Troop Brand and Chinese rapper Vava.

On March 14, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Lovebird" which features Lay.

On April 19, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Paint the Clouds" which features vocals from Tia Ray.

On June 21, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Maps", featuring Diamond, Starchild Yeezo, and Rell the Soundbender.

On July 26, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Glue", featuring Heize and Shawn Wasabi.

On February 14, 2020, Far East Movement released a single "Nice Things" (with Henry and AlunaGeorge)

On May 14, 2020, Far East Movement released a single “Let the Future In”  With Karen Mok 

On May 18, 2020, Far East Movement released a single “ We Are the Truth”  With Sha Sha Jones  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Far+East+Movement">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.