Instilled with the DIY work ethic cemented in the Adelaide heavy music scene by bands such as I Killed The Prom Queen and Embodiment 12:14, Far West Battlefront have self booked their own shows from one end of the country to the other. This hard work has pushed the band to become a well-respected unit amoungst peers and fans of the Australian heavy music community. 

They have supported international heavyweights including Bleeding Through, Between The Buried and Me, For The Fallen Dreams, The Acacia Strain, Haste the Day, All Shall Perish and The Contortionist, while also landing the solitary Adelaide support for the Escape the Fate/Pierce the Veil Australian tour.

Having released their first full length album ‘Chapters’ through Skull & Bones Records/Shock Entertainment in early 2012. The next year-and-a-half involved more extensive touring and the release of a brand new single entitled ‘Malice’. In late 2013 they we offered a slot on the hugely popular Vans Warped Tour, alongside the likes of Parkway Drive, The Offspring, The Amity Affliction, and Hatebreed.

However, Far West Battlefront is about to embark on their most epic chapter yet. Earlier in 2013, guitarist Nic Bastian decided to step away from the band. Also, the 2013 Adelaide Vans Warped Tour show marked the last time Adam Atkins would sing for the band. Nonetheless, this has not deterred the remaining members. 2014 will bring with it a new singer, a fresh new album, and the most extensive touring schedule yet for the band. 

"Bear witness to the cleansing power of fury. These are the sort of tracks that gets unsigned bands signed. These Aussies are looking for a label. They'll find one soon enough, no trouble." - Terrorizer Magazine UK

"Far West Battlefront opened the evening with a set which could only be described as dominating. Each member could have easily tackled the stage solo." -Fasterlouder.com.au (LIVE REVIEW w/The Acacia Strain)

"...there’s more than enough potential within Far West Battlefront to believe that the band could well and truly come up with something really special in the future." - Themetalforge.com

"... it may only be a matter of time before this band is the next hot topic in Australian metal." - DB Magazine <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Far+West+Battlefront">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.