Jan Ulrich Max Vetter (born 27 October 1963 in Berlin, Germany), better known as Farin Urlaub, is a prolific German rock musician. He is best-known as a founding member, guitarist and vocalist of the German punk rock band Die Ärzte. He has also been a solo artist since 2001, touring with his live band, the Farin Urlaub Racing Team.

His name Farin Urlaub is a pun on the German expression "Fahr in Urlaub!", which means "Go on vacation!", to refer to his love of traveling. He is also a pescetarian, a teetotaler, a non-smoker and a pacifist. He speaks seven languages: German, English, French, Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and Japanese, and a supporter of Greenpeace and Amnesty International (amongst others). For the last few years he has been living in a village near Hamburg, where he has his own recording studio.

In 1980 he joined Bela B.'s band Soilent Grün as guitarist. When the band broke up in 1982, Urlaub, Bela B. and Hans Runge (better known as Sahnie) formed Die Ärzte, one of the most successful German pop punk rock bands of the 1980s. In 1988, at the height of their popularity, Die Ärzte disbanded.

Urlaub then formed King Køng, which remained unsuccessful, even for an indie band. Die Ärzte reunited in 1993 and have had continued success ever since. Urlaub still writes most songs for Die Ärzte which has the consequence that not all of them can be used for the band.

Therefore, in 2001, Urlaub started his solo career with the album Endlich Urlaub! ("Vacation at last!", which can also be read as pun on his name, as in "Urlaub at last!"). Am Ende der Sonne ("At the end of the Sun") was released in 2005, followed by the release of the live album Livealbum of Death in 2006. This live album was released under the name of Farin Urlaub's live band Farin Urlaub Racing Team. However, Urlaub announced that subsequent studio releases will also be made under the name Farin Urlaub Racing Team.

And so their latest studio album Die Wahrheit übers Lügen ("The truth about lying") was released in 2008, followed by a live album/video Lass es wie einen Unfall aussehen ("Make it look like an accident") in 2010. The video material was intended to become a live DVD, but was then released as a free download on the artist's website www.farin-urlaub.de, due to difficulties during the live sound recording (which led to the name). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Farin+Urlaub">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.