Born in 1988 in Fresno, California, Fashawn grew up in a virtually parentless home. His father was incarcerated, while his mom was focused on feeding her drug addiction - a combination that caused a boy to become a man quicker than most. Placed in a group home by child services at the age of 12, Fashawn found solace in music, and began writing rhymes to escape the less than desirable hand he had been dealt so early in life.

Eventually taken in by his uncle, Fashawn spent his teenage years calling First & Shields Ave in Fresno, California his home. Here is where he would find skating, the distractions of the streets, and the pursuance of his music career to be more rewarding than school. Yet, he had a constant thirst for knowledge that extended beyond the streets, so he became an avid reader with an affinity towards non-fiction and motivational books.

In 2006, Fashawn released his first mixtape, “Grizzly City”. Catching the attention of fellow Fresno emcee, Planet Asia, Fashawn was invited to go on the road with him. Knowing this was a chance of a lifetime; the then 17-year-old emcee dropped out of school to follow his dreams and has never looked back.

Since then he’s had the honor of working with two of the Mid-West’s premier DJs, Mick Boogie and Terry Urban on the Orisue clothing sponsored “One Shot One Kill” mixtape, and with Hip-Hop internet heavyweights OnSmash.com and NahRight.com on his “Higher Learning” mixtape. Both efforts garnered him nationwide recognition.

Fashawn has also been fortunate enough to work in the studio with DJ Muggs, DJ Khalil, Evidence, The Alchemist, Aloe Blacc, U-N-I, and Planet Asia, as well as on the stage with The Roots.

Recognized as a leader in Central California's hip hop scene, steering a vibrant pack of young artists with his innovative style and originality in his music, Fashawn is more than ready to take on the world with his debut album Boy Meets World. Produced entirely by Los Angeles native Exile, “’Boy Meets World’ is just a story about a kid growing up,” explains Fashawn. “It’s my story, it’s very honest, it’s very in depth. So whatever you thought you knew about me, listen to this and you’ll really get a good look at who I am. It’s going to be classic.” FRY ONE <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fashawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.