At least two artists go by the name of Fast Eddie:

1. An acid house producer from Chicago, IL, United States
2. An R&B band from Benfleet, Essex, United Kingdom

1. Fast Eddie (b. Edwin A. Smith - aka "Fast" Eddie Smith), is an African American house music producer from Chicago, IL, USA. Before his stint as a producer, he was a DJ that was considered one of the premier house DJs at the time. (Not to be confused with the UK heavy metal guitarist, Fast Eddie Clarke.)

He gained immense popularity during the heyday of Chicago House Music (1986-88). During that time, he was spinning on WGCI and WBMX in Chicago (e.g. "WGCI Mix (1988)"). However, during that stint, he produced one of his first singles, collaborating with Kenny Jason (aka Kenny "Jammin" Jason), "Can U Dance" (1987).

In 1987, Eddie came out with other house tracks such as "The Whop" (based on the dance of the same name). Also, Eddie left WGCI for WBMX for a short stint and then quit that to concentrate on producing.

In 1988, Eddie scored one of his biggest hits with "Acid Thunder" on the DJ International Label. "Acid Thunder" is regarded as a classic of the Chicago acid house genre.

However, it was the track "Hip House" which really increased his popularity. Eddie popularized the genre of Hip house (Essentially, rap over house beats) and produced several tracks afterward.

He scored several hits on the Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart in the late eighties and early nineties, including "Git On Up" (featuring Sundance), which spent a week at number one in 1989.

However, Eddie tried his hand at Gangsta Rap in 1990 by forming the group America's Most Wanted and many critics felt he should have stuck to his House Music roots. Later that year, he released "Make Some Noise."

Circa 1995, Eddie made two collaborations that are considered under the genre of "Ghetto House." The first of these is entitled "Booty Call" with DJ Sneak and the other is entitled "Pump It" with DJ Funk. Both songs gained a lot of airplay on Chicago radio and in clubs.

2. Fast Eddie were a full-throttle R&B band from Benfleet, Essex, United Kingdom. Active around 1982-1983, they enjoyed popularity during the 'Mod revival' of the early 1980s. They recording barnstorming versions of songs by Willie Dixon, Sonny Boy Williamson and Ray Charles, but also the odd self-penned track. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fast+Eddie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.