Fast Taker was created in Puerto Rico and is now located in Tampa, Florida - USA. They are one of the most recognized heavy metal bands from Puerto Rico. 

Formed in 2003, but after several line-up changes, it wasn't until 2004 when the dream of the lead vocalist, Gabriel Colón and the bass player Hector Tórres started to take form when they hooked up with one of the most genius guitar players they've seen (Yamil Gonzales) and weeks later a very experienced drummer is recruited (Jose Colón) to complete the line-up, forming what is known today as Fast Taker. Fast Taker is the only local heavy metal band to have so much exposure on Puerto Rico’s number 1 rock radio station “Alfa Rock”, playing their hit single “I Can See” from their Ep released on July of 2005 for months, reaching the top 10 and staying there for 8 consecutive weeks.

Due to our quick success, in October 2005, Fast Taker was chosen to be the opening band for heavy metal legends MEGADETH in Puerto Rico’s biggest coliseum “Jose Miguel Agrelot”. In November 2005 Fast Taker was nominated for best heavy metal band in the second annual IXA awards celebrated in P.R., dedicated to all local entertainment. On the first half of 2006 due to high public demand Fast Taker played in every corner of PR including Hard Rock Café and Puerto Rico’s convention center, headlining many metal festivals, making radio interviews and TV appearances. Billboard presented Fast Taker with an Honorable Mention for our song "I Can See" on the 14th Annual Billboard Song Contest.

On the second half they enter the studio to start recording their new album called “Mark my Words” which includes Rhino (ex-manowar) on drums and will be their biggest accomplishment yet. We took the US by storm when we decided to move to Florida on the end of 2007, playing already in many great venues like the Florida State Fair, the State Theater and the first ever Florida’s Nightmare Metal Fest celebrated at Bourbon Street that included many great bands like Cage, Avian, Disaster Peace and many more, just recently we shared stage with Destruction. 2008 looks to be very promising with more great shows to come and the release of our new album “Mark my Words” that will include 12 new and exciting tracks.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fast+Taker">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.