More than one artist byu the name of Fastway.

1) Fastway were a British heavy metal band formed in 1982 by former Motörhead guitarist "Fast" Eddie Clarke and UFO bassist Pete Way.

2) Fastway  is a Eurobeat vocalist named Ennio Zanini

--==--

1) - : Bluesy hard rock and boogie was still around in the early 1980s, even as hair metal started grabbing all the attention. One such British band, Fastway, was led by two veterans: Motorhead guitarist Fast Eddie Clarke and Humble Pie drummer Jerry Shirley. They recruited unknown singer and harmonica player Dave King and released their successful self-titled debut in 1983. Fastway had no full-time bassist at this point, and whoever played on the album isn't credited. King was a virtual Robert Plant clone, and to say that much of Fastway bears more than a passing resemblance to Led Zeppelin is an understatement. Despite its derivative nature, this is sloppy, unrefined fun. Overall, Clarke's guitar work here is more diverse than what he did in Motorhead, yet the blistering opener, "Easy Livin'," is full of his jackhammer riffing. The tune is actually catchy too, and King's exuberant vocals can't be ignored. "Feel Me, Touch Me (Do Anything You Want)," "Heft!," and "We Become One" are good, but the sputtering "Say What You Will" and the dramatically bombastic bonus track "Far Far From Home" rank with "Easy Livin'" (not a Uriah Heep cover, by the way) as the best songs on Fastway. It's interesting to note that, although Fastway's influences are obvious, the band generally avoided the venomous critical barbs and comparisons suffered by Kingdom Come five years later.

After critical and commercial success, the band toured to promote the album (with one-time Fixx bassist Alfie Agius as their session bass player). The band then recruited Richard McCracken, formerly of  Taste , as "permanent" bassist, and released another success in the form of All Fired Up the following year. After the hardships of touring, Shirley and McCracken subsequently left.

In 1985, Clarke and King reformed Fastway with a new line-up. Recruiting Shane Carroll (second guitar), Paul Reid (bass), and Alan Connor (drums) from Dave King's first band,  Stillwood, this line-up released Waiting for the Roar. The record took an album-oriented rock approach instead of the driving bluesy-metal of the previous albums.  The same year, Fastway was approached to make the soundtrack for the heavy metal horror film, Trick or Treat.  The film flopped, but the soundtrack re-established Fastway as a hard-hitting metal band. King took most of the band with him and started  Q.E.D., a more AOR-styled outfit. They released a two-track single.

Meanwhile, Clarke decided to restart Fastway again from scratch in 1988 using vocalist  Lea Hart and session men, quickly releasing On Target in the same year, but it sold poorly.  In 1990, this duo of Clarke and Hart released Bad Bad Girls, employing various session musicians including members of Girlschool.  After calling it a day in 1991, they released a perfunctory live album Say What You Will LIVE (an older recording, curiously with King on vocals). In 1997, Clarke and Hart reunited and released a reworked version of On Target.

On 25 May 2007, Toby Jepson, former lead singer with Little Angels, announced he had accepted an approach from Fastway to perform lead vocal duties during the year's festival appearances. An updated line-up played the Sweden Rock Festival, Japanese Hard Rock Hell, and the Download Festival at Castle Donington. Besides guitarist Clarke and Jepson, the new band featured drummer Steve Strange (not to be confused with Visage singer Steve Strange) and John McManus (Mama's Boys).  In 2008, Toby Jepson announced he would go on to front Scottish hard rockers Gun full-time.

In late 2010, "Fast" Eddie Clarke returned to the recording studio to record a new album with Toby Jepson, titled Eat Dog Eat. The album was released on 14 November 2011, by SPV/Steamhammer, and it is the first album of entirely new material from Fastway in over twenty years.

Clarke died on 10 January 2018, after a battle with pneumonia at the age of 67.  Two years and seven months later Way died on 14 August 2020.

--==--

2) Fastway is a Eurobeat vocalist named Ennio Zanini singing for Stefano Castagna Productions (SCP). He also produces Eurobeat and is also known as Dusty and when teamed up with Christian Codenotti (mostly known as "Ace") they are known as Go 2. Him and Ace and prominent and popular Eurobeat vocalist in Japan.  Fastway hits includes songs, but not limited to, such as "777", "Kingo King'O Beat", "Rockin' Hardcore", "Crash Boom Burn Me Up", "Love Countdown", "Money Go Round", "Number One", "Spacelove" and "Revolution". Also, many of his songs ended up in the Japanese car racing animation's soundtrack "Initial D". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fastway">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.