Band History

The band was formed in July 2004 in Malaysia. Fasy, the key person in the band, had performed as a guitar player in many bands before, starting at his school way back in the late 80s. Since then, he performed in many bands in the Maldives, experimenting with many styles of music.

In 1996 he moved to Malaysia for further studies and has performed with many Malaysian artists there, both live and in the studio. Finally, the time came for him to put his own line-up together.

His first line-up included RIFU, a Maldivian bassist, and DISTA, an Indonesian drummer. The band regularly performed rock, metal and blues music in various clubs in Malaysia. Fasy launched his Third album ‘Crusing’ in well-known pub in Malaysia known as the backyardpub, with AYYA on bass and IBBE on drums, followed by many performances and various popular venues, including shopping malls, Tower Records outlets, major clubs and many music festivals.

Following a few changes in the line-up he has now found his ideal band composition with ADDO on bass guitar and IBBE on drums together known as FASYLIVE.

Currently touring in the UK, FASYLIVE have picked up a new bassist by the name of GREY (Graham). They have played many gigs over the UK including places like London, Liverpool, Birmingham and Cornwall to name a few, giving them a much bigger fan base now then before.


Fasy

Coming from a musical family Fasy picked his first guitar at the tender age of four. His musical career began to take shape after winning a number of awards for his guitar and vocal performances throughout his school days. By the time he left school he had a focused interest in playing heavy metal.

Fasy is responsible for re-introducing rock and heavy metal to the youth of the country. He along with Ahmed(base), Muthey, Badheeu, and Niyaatte organized the “Painted Sound Illusion”, the first rock concert organized in the Maldives for original rock bands. He became the role model for the youth of the Maldives.

Since he moved to Malaysia to attain his BSc degree in Computing and Information Systems, he widened his musical interests. By this time he was experimenting with guitar, drums, bass and the synthesizer.

While in Malaysia he had regularly jammed in the pubs and clubs with a collection of Malaysian musicians including; Viji, Bala, Amir Yussof, Rafiq, The Purple Haze, Lord, to mention a few.

Fasy along with Rekha Raveendaran(Malaysian Music Producer), was a sessionist and the co-composer of the theme song for the World Youth Conference for two consecutive years 1999 and 2000.

He and Rekha Raveendaran set up their own record label “DigitalTones” in 2000 and worked as a producer and Engineer. DigitalTones is an independant Local Malaysian label. He has since then released 2 successful solo albums one with DigitalTones and his latest solo album ‘A Compilation’ with Athenesoftec.

But his passion to play in his own band overtook all other activities. This was the reason he scouted for a drummer and a bassist to make his dream a reality. The band FASYLIVE came into being after many trials and tribulations.

Playing and winning the best unsigned guitarist of London 2006 at the Emergenza Finals in London Astoria2, ‘The Meanfiddler’ has been Fasy’s biggest achievement so far.


Ibbe

Ibbe started his music career at the age of 12 while still in school. Since then, he has played drums for most of the prime local bands in the Maldives. Ibbe has also had considerable experience of touring several countries in Asia, Africa and Europe.

His tours have taken him to India, Sri Lanka, Italy, South Africa, Malaysia and Germany. Ibbe lined up with Fasy in July 2005, joining his band “FASYLIVE”, where his inspirations for international acclaim were further fueled by their success in Malaysia, the Maldives, Sri Lanka and UK.

Ibbe’s skills shined at the Emergenza Festival in 2006 taking the band to the top five in London.


Addo

Addo discovered his passion for music when he was 15 years old. The first instrument he ever touched was the bass guitar and became his instrument to start his music career.

His first band was ‘The End’ while he was in secondary school lasted 2 years until he finished his 0 levels. He carried on with his music to a band that brought him fame known as Illsight until he got the invitation by Fasy and Ibbe to join FASYLIVE.

Addos inspirations and infuences include: Iron Maiden, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Children of Bodom, Metallica, Pink Floyd. His biggest achivement so far is playing at the Emergenza U.K. finals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/FasyLive">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.