In the beginning of the ‘90s a few guys with great ambition, influenced by the thrash metal, created the band "Blood Existence". With their technical melodic thrash metal style, inspired by the music of Testament and Annihilator, the band rapidly gained popularity and the affection of the fans. But they didn’t stop there. Despite the successful concerts and the rapturous reaction of the Bulgarian rock and metal society, the musicians decided to put an end to "Blood Existence" and this is how they created "Sider"- probably one of the most prodigious bands on the Bulgarian metal stage in the late ‘90s.

Participation in different festivals and numerous concerts along with their debut album "Labyrinth" turned the band into one of the most discussed and highly praised metal bands on the local stage. Soon they became widely acknowledged by the rest of the world- magazines like ‘Heavy oder was’ and others expressed a high opinion of the album "Labirynth" and Sider’s technically performed metal music, combining the energy of thrash with the intelligence of progressive metal.

Jivko- lead guitar, Ivan – rhythm guitar and Atanas- vocals went on developing their musical search into new revolutionary directions. Their ingenious ideas were a bit too innovatory to be accepted by the rest of the band, so "Side"’ fell apart, giving birth to "Expressive Art"- a band playing pure progressive metal. Within this formation the musicians didn’t have any studio records but they made a few concerts, largely approved by the public and the critics. It was a big plus for the band that the lyrics were written in Bulgarian, having in mind they played on a local stage. But the musicians wanted more. They had already proved that they are good at what they do and that they can create compositions in different styles, so the next step was having a style of their own and a unique sound.

This is how "Fat White Chiefs" came to life. The first one of the band’s compositions, called "Master Joe", was composed by Jivko , Ivan and Atanas . This was the beginning of a new musical adventure- a style combining progressive, thrash, neo metal, rap, gothic and whatever you may think of…

Two more people joined the band: Ivailo-bass guitar and Milen- drums, and this led to the creation of "'Hunter of dreams"' and "Sixth sense".

"Fat White Chiefs" have already written the songs for their debut album, however, they still have to record them in a studio. The musicians deeply believe in success and time will show they are right…
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/FAT+WHITE+CHIEFS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.