Fatal Injury was founded on 1997, when four friends from Barcelona decided to use his musical interests to do something else than wasting their time smoking on the neighbourhood. The first line-up of the band was: Oscar (drums), Lolo (Guitar/vocals), Jorge (guitar) and Carlos (bass guitar). During the first two years the band spends all the time making a lot of covers and trying to make their own compositions. At the same time in a rehearsal room side by side, Raul (guitarist on the actual line-up) and Fidel (bassist on the actual line-up) were playing on another band with no name that finished in a early dissolution. The first one that leaved the band was Jorge due to personal reasons, he was replaced by Javi (also known as “maquinen” ), less than two months had passed since his incorporation when he leaves the band, then Raúl joins the band as new guitarist. During the five next years there were no important changes, a lot of covers, the first compositions and a lot more of rehearsals. At this time the second change in the band happens, Carlos (bassist) leaves the band and Fidel replaces him. With this change we finally have the actual line-up.

During the summer of the 2004 we went into the studio for the first time to record a demo, featuring jsut two songs. It was recorded in Barcelona at the Cima Digital Studio, 1.000 copies were given out for free to the audience on the gigs, just to introduce the band.The demo was well received on the underground scene and it has some good reviews. At the sime time we were making a lot of gigs in all the Barcelona area, with some of the most emergent thrash and death metal bands of this area. We were opening too for the mythical Incantattion at Mephisto and for the german thrash metal classics Holy Moses at the Martohell Fest . We have recently released our first full lenght through Aural Offering records, a French based label with distribution on Germany, France, Italy, Benelux (Netherlands, Belgium...), Spain and worldwide through mailorders on the web.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fatal+Injury">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.