Fatal Nation is a metal band from Baku, Azerbaijan. The band was founded 3 rd of June 1999.After a long time jumping from one group to another, the current drummer of the band Ramin Sadigov decided to create a group that would play music that did not match to anyone else's music in Baku at this time. Even though Elkhan Alshin and Ramin knew each other since 1996, they were then playing in different bands. In 1997 Elkhan Alshin founded a band that was influenced by bands like Pantera, Sepultura, Tool (some sort of evil mix of styles like thrash, death and psychedelic),but they didn't have a permanent bass player and vocalist. At that period of time Evgeniy Manukhin (current drummer of Unformal) was filling the role of the drummer. Ramin was working on a thrash-metal project called Heavengate and at the same time was hammering drums with a band called Trap with guitarist Alexander Goncharov. Ramin was also partly helping Elkhan with his band(already called Fatal Nation).After some time in Fatal Nation a creative misunderstanding appeared between, Evgeniy Manukhin and Elkhan, and Natiq Mammadov(bass player, who became a permanent and irreplaceable bass player of Fatal Nation).At this point Ramin was having a hard time with Heavengate and Alexander Goncharov, because he wanted to play much heavier, aggressive and technically complicated music, he accepted Elkhan's offer to join Fatal Nation. Already in autumn, when crops and fruits are gathered and leaves fall, was formed final line up at that period of time: Elkhan Alshin-guitar, Natiq Mammadov-bass, Ramin Sadigov-drums and young vocalist Toghrul Manafov who has earlier helped with lyrics and vocals a band called Amalgama. With this line up in winter 2000 the band decides to make a studio record in ANS RECORDS studio, to record results of their first year of work together. After, they recorded another demo EP in their practicing space, called The Nail-Symbol of a New Revolution. Neither of the records saw day light because of the difficult situation in Baku regarding the promotion of rock bands at this time. In 2001 Toghrul leaves the band, but they don't give up and still aspire to conquer the world metal scene. With a new vocalist (Timur), joined later by a second guitarist, Alexander Kasrtyulin(who worked later with bands from Tula (Russia) like I'N'F and Shatter) Fatal Nation recorded demo versions of songs called The Banner Of Madness and Analysis, that they sent to Moscow music label Corporation of Heavy Metal(KTR) led by Sergey Troitskiy(Corrosion of Metal and). Invited by KTR in April 2001, the band went to Moscow, and then again because of financial problems they had to come back to Baku after some time. 

   The period from 2002 to 2003 is a black stripe in history of FN, after their journey to Russia the band decides to split for a while and to get busy with their personal life. But these musicians couldn't be for too long out of the business and in April 2003 united again to write a new program, influenced by nu-metal and alternative bands like Mudvayne and Deftones and was kinda playing tribute to the new trend. The artists themselves think that it is some sort of experiment to bring variety to the monotonous Azeri rock scene that was stagnant at that period of time. And then again all the band members had problems with their personal life. 

   Summer 2004 Elkhan meets Emil Aliyev (current FN vocalist) and they decide to start all over again and revive FN. Group starts series of intensive and fruitful practices. In the end of 2004 DJ and keyboard player Egor Anisimov joins the band, and brings new colours to the already completely changed music of the band. Now it is heavy thrash-metal without any compromise with noticeable flavour of styles like death metal, hardcore and nu-metal. 

   With this line-up, the band continues working on new materials and carries on improving technically. At the beginning of 2006 the band has enough fresh ideas and they end up ensconce in studio, to record another demo album. After recording the demo album called Suicide Is The Easiest Way Of Solving Problems…But Not The Best(quite a long fucking name for an album), the musicians sent the record to the organization committee of the international rock-festival Metal Crowd 2006 Open-air in Rechitsa, Belarus. The committee of Metal Crowd accepts the band's application and officially invites FN to take part in the festival. This way FN became the first metal band from Azerbaijan that ever performed on a rock-festival outside Caucasus. After their return to Azerbaijan they started working, as they had enough new ideas at that moment. Also at this period of time we can see some changes in the music style of the band, now they have influences of angry metal and metalcore styles. Also they add another guitarist - Dmitriy Filipenya. At this point they sent another application to participate in international festival Red Alert Open-Air 2007 that will take place in Evpatoria ( Krim, Ukraine). At the moment this is a biggest metal festival in Eastern Europe that is why it is really important for the band. Bands like Caliban and Suffocation, which are well known in the world death-metal and metalcore scenes, are also going to take part in this festival.

www.fatalnationband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fatal+Nation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.