At a time when Swedish hard rock is undergoing a rebirth of sorts, many bands are staking their claim to a piece of the action. Stockholm's FATAL SMILE have more to offer than most and are only too happy to prove that to anybody prepared to listen.
The band was formed in 1995 by guitarist Y and in no time at all, songs were written, shows were being played, a deal with a Swedish label was in place and in 2002 the debut album "Beyond Reality" was in stores. Produced by Jonas Östman (Yngwie Malmsteen) the reaction worldwide was incredibly positive!
Off the back of this excellent media attention, the band hit the road again on a mixture of headline shows, support slots and festival appearances topped off by a slot at the coveted New Jersey Metal Meltdown festival in 2003 that was deemed such a sucess that the band were booked back into the States for a three week headlining tour that took them from Florida up to New Jersey, playing 16 shows in 21 days!

The band's triumphant returned to Sweden to begin writing songs for album number two. "Neo Natural Freaks" was again produced by Jonas Östman and mixed by Stefan Glaumann, famed for his work with teutonic terrors RAMMSTEIN and Stockholm's own glam punk behemoths BACKYARD BABIES.

FATAL SMILE released the first fruits of these labours in December -05 with the single and video for Learn - Love - Hate that went up straight to no 4 in the single charts and stayed on top 20 for 4 weeks. The album "Neo Natural Freaks" saw the light of day in February 2006 and it was followed by massive touring in Europe, Scandinavia and Japan.

In 2007 Y found his new band mates Alx on bass, Blade on vocals & Zteff on drums. They recorded their new album "World Domination" produced by Y and the mixing duties was handled by the legendary Michael Wagener (METALLICA, OZZY OSBOURNE, MÖTLEY CRÜE).

Forget what you think you know about hard rock in 2007. Whatever you think you know is redundant. FATAL SMILE have made it so. Influenced by the sounds they grew up with but not dictated to by them, theirs is a sound that takes rock in new directions whilst always having one eye on home. Comforting yet exciting, dangerous yet strangely familiar. Not afraid to bend the rules of the game should the need arise, one day all bands will be made in this image.So let the World Domination begin! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fatal+Smile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.