There are several artists/bands called "Fate":

1) A Danish Melodic Hard Rock band
2) An U.S.-American Deathcore band 
3) Indian Black  Metal Band
4) A Polish punk rock band 
5) A Kurdish folk singer
6) A French death metal band
7) A 60's psych/hard rock band
8) A Canadian hip-hop artist
9) A Turkish rap artist from Kiremithane, Adana
10) An Estonian rapper 
11) An American electronic music producer
___________________________


1) Fate, Danish melodic hard rock band originally formed in 1984. They disbanded in 1993, but after a one-off reunion at a German music festival in 2004, Fate was reformed and they released a new album, V, in 2006.
The story of Copenhagen-based Danish melodic rock band Fate began in 1985, when former Mercyful Fate guitarist Hank Shermann (René Krolmark), Maxim Reality singer Jeff Lox Limbo (Jens Meinert), bass / keyboard player Pete Steiner (Peter Steincke) and drummer Bob Lance (Bjarne Holm) met and found FATE. With producer Simon Hanhart (Bryan Adams, Asia, 21 Guns, Yngwie Malmsteen, Marillion) the band recorded Cruisin' For A Bruisin'' in 1988, which features the ultra-catchy "Lovers" (released as a single plus videoclip in 1988) and a new version of "Love on the Rox" from the band's debut.


2) Hailing from Carmichael, California this five-piece band does not compromise the veracity of their music for anyone. Deeply influenced by all things extreme and thrashy, FATE has directed their intense admiration of metal into the focus needed to create music for a new generation of Metalheads! Speed, ferocity, and the ability to write viciously energetic songs will surely set FATE apart from other acts as they prepare to take the metal world by storm with their Metal Blade Records debut ‘Vultures’.

Formed in September of 2003, the members of Fate were still in middle school when they decided to start the band. Eager to be a part of the scene they had so much respect and adoration for; FATE began booking and playing shows in the greater Sacramento area including gigs at infamous underground venues. Come 2005 the band recruited Kyle Fishman on guitars, who was only 14 at the time, and started writing new material. This new material was so strong that it resulted in FATE being invited to play the Sacramento stop of the Van’s Warped Tour.

After playing the Sacramento stop of the Van’s Warped Tour FATE began booking out of town shows their own mini tours. During this time FATE had 2 shows a week for about a year, which is pretty good considering all of the band’s members were still in high school. FATE continued to develop a name for themselves and were getting offers for bigger and better shows including dates with bands like Bleeding Through, Unearth, Amon Amarth, Through the Eyes of the Dead, and Animosity.

Enter 2007, FATE has their first ever deal with metal label heavyweights Metal Blade Records and are picked up by the Artery Foundation Management (The Devil Wears Prada, Team Sleep, Whitechapel, The Warriors, and Dance Gavin Dance just to name a few). The band has also landed endorsements with Krank Amplification and Vitamin Water with more deals already in the works.

After playing the Sacramento stop of the Van's Warped Tour FATE began booking out of town shows their own mini tours. During this time FATE had 2 shows a week for about a year, which is pretty good considering all of the band's members were still in high school. FATE continued to develop a name for themselves and were getting offers for bigger and better shows including dates with bands like Bleeding Through, Unearth, Amon Amarth, Through the Eyes of the Dead, and Animosity.

Enter 2007, FATE has their first ever deal with metal label heavyweights Metal Blade Records and are picked up by the Artery Foundation Management (The Devil Wears Prada, Team Sleep, Whitechapel, The Warriors, and Dance Gavin Dance just to name a few). The band has also landed endorsements with Krank Amplification and Vitamin Water with more deals already in the works. Look for FATE's Metal Blade debut 'Vultures' in stores and online everywhere April 29th, 2008.

Justin Krahn - vocals
Kyle Fishman - guitar
Brice Yuson - guitar
Devin Durrett - bass
Jacob Durrett - drums


3)Fate : Indian Black Metal was formed in 1999  and Split up in 2003 , during which they came up with a EP by name Lead us to Darkness .


4) Polish punk rock band called Fate was formed in 1991 i Ziębice. Previously musican were part of such bands like Smok Wafelski Muuaahhaa i Fly And The Revolution.
Members: 
Agnieszka -voc, 
Mucha -voc,git, 
Wojteck -dr 
Mieszko -bas. 
Fate represents style wich is mix of punk with elements of reggae and folk.
In 2000 Agnieszka left the crew. During it's life, Fate gained big respekt in Poland. Fate plays for today.


5) The Kurdish female folk singer Fatê


6) Fate is also the name of a brutal death metal band from Paris, France, that existed in the early 2000's. They used to have a DJ in the band, adding noises and scratches to the brutal death metal. Released a demo, an EP, a split and an album called No Sense, all rereleased by Galy Records in a compilation called Odyssey. Ex-members went on to form Every Reason To.... Similar to Suffocation, Dying Fetus, Devourment...
http://www.galyrecords.com/file-fate.html

7) A 60's psych/hard rock band who had one album Sgt. Death 


11) Electronic music producer from Burlington, Vermont, USA. He is known for mixing ambient and dark, but beautiful soundscapes with powerful sub-rattling bass lines. Many listeners categorize his sound as Wave, Future Garage and other genres of the melodic-bass variety. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.