Fate Breaks Dawn, situated in New York City, is a metal band that strives to encompass all the traits and sounds that has made the genre what it is today. The prelude before it's founding began with the meeting of it's two guitarists and aspiring shredders, Lance Barnewold and Juan Ortiz, at their high school talent show in May of 2011. They also took part in an EMG Metallica challenge during that summer. On one side of the coin, Lance, brought up by the sounds of Black Sabbath and Led Zeppelin, picked up the electric axe at the age of thirteen. Fueled by his idols such as James Hetfield, Paul Gilbert and Marty Friedman, genres ranging from the Blues to Death Metal, his goal is to keep the old school Metal sound alive by putting a modern twist to it. On the other side, Juan, who started playing guitar at 9, was initially influenced by Metallica. From there, his tastes evolved to new sounds ranging from August Burns red to Guthrie Govan. He hopes to further expand his knowledge in the realm of music, from songwriting to music engineering. Together, they are a force to be reckoned with, rivaling duos such as Dave Murray and Adrian Smith. From there, in November of the same year, they met Mike Cotoia, lead vocalist and who was at the time the drummer for the growing group. His musical venture began with the drums at the age of four, later to develop an impeccable sense for rhythm and feel, influenced by the styles of Neil Peart, Scott Rockenfield and then Jason Rullo. He began singing at the age of 18, inspired by melodic powerhouses such as Eric Adams and Russel Allen, as well as the aggressive timbres of voices like Phil Anselmo. He took part in the band as a way to inspire people to learn to play music themselves and to keep the the spirit of Heavy Metal alive and strong for future generations. With the three together, other than performing covers of their favorite acts and bonding together, they began to write their own material, which would eventually arise to recordings of their first demo and soon to be EP. As their bond grew stronger, they were on the hunt for a bassist and primary drummer. They went threw a good deal of bass tryouts before it would lead them to Michael J. Mahoney, who Mike and Lance spotted in December of 2012. Amazed with how well he clicked with the two so easily as they jammed out, they had to take him on. Michael began playing music at the age of 10, choosing the bass over the six-stringer simply for it's ease of use, way before he realized how important the bassist's role was in a band. Steve Harris, Geddy Lee, Steve DiGiorgio are just but a minuscule fraction of what drives his passion for the bass guitar and music. He strives not only to be a strong foundation for the band, but a strong musician in all respects. As they begun their preparation to record their five track EP (in which Mike would track), they searched for their drummer. Trying out many candidates, they soon found the right fit with Marc Capellupo. As for Marc, he began drumming around the age of 13 and took an immediate liking to the sound of snares and crashes. Subsequent years were spent developing his own style, heavily influenced by the speed and technicality of his favorite drummers. A true believer of the idea that one never stops learning, Marc is looking for new ways to push his boundaries and grow as a musician. With the whole ensemble assembled, they are prepared to plunge into the uncertain waters that the music world has to offer. Drawing power from multiple sources of inspiration not limited to just Heavy Metal, encouraged by those to seek out and claim their dreams, they hope to make their mark and achieve their fate.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fate+Breaks+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.