There are multiple artists under the name Fatima:

1. Fatima Bramma-Sey, better known as simply Fatima, is a 25-year-old Swedish soul songstress recording on Floating Points' and Alexander Nut's Eglo Records. Her ability to improvise and cover a wide range of musical styles was an inspiration to Nut, who quickly became a fan and invited the young Swede into the Eglo fold.

Fatima's musical approach is also deeply tied to her own diverse roots. Growing up in Sweden as the child of a Senagelese/Gambian mom who owned a boutique in Stockholm that traded in African wares, Fatima was exposed to the rich vibrations of West African music from an early age, sparking an interest in the many musical styles that African rhythms have engendered. Now she's managed to bring all those raw styles together. "The combination between soul and electronic sounds is the future," she offers. "On the other hand, it doesn't matter what instruments you've got to make tunes—the mind is the only thing that can limit yourself at the end of the day."

Lately, Fatima has been working on a new record with Floating Points. "I think this EP feels a bit more live, in the sense that we actually both recorded in the same room, playing our instruments live simultaneously," Fatima says. "It's a mix of written tunes and improvised sentences and melodies." 


2. Fatima was an indie visual kei band in Japan, created in 1998 and active until 2005. The band's sound and style was deemed 'sexy and extravagant', coupled with lyrics that were thought-provoking and a frontman who always seemed an enigma in himself. Fatima's final line-up consisted of: Kanoma (first known as Hitomi, later Sanaka) on vocals, Mizuha and 4ge (pronounced Shi-ge) on guitar, Lay on bass, and Towa on drums. The band released 9 singles and maxi singles, one full album entitled Exit, and one live DVD before disbanding in 2005.

Kanoma and Towa are both currently in the band Moran. Kanoma has changed his name back to Hitomi and Towa is now going by the name Soan. Previous Fatima band members were ダイスケ (Daisuke) - later the vocalist of 蜉蝣, Zen - later the vocalist of Vanilla, and Nao - currently the drummer in アリス九號.


3. Fatima emerged from the Los Angeles Latin rock scene since their participation at the 2007 SXSW. Bandmembers are Cesar Villa (vocals/guitar) , Rudy Reyes (bass), Ever Hernandez (guitar) and Victor Trujillo (drums).

In 2008 their debut album “Escuchame” was released in the U.S. with the single “Con Tus Palabras” at number 6 on the Radio y Musica U.S. charts. They held various tours in Mexico to promote the album.

http://www.myspace.com/fatima
http://www.fatimarock.com
http://www.doulamusic.com


4. Fa.Ti.Ma band (Fake Time Machine band) was formed in De La Salle University - Dasmarinas, Philippines in the year 2010. Bandmembers are Joseph Lonzame (vocals), Gino Villena (lead guitar), Mark Bicada (rhythm guitar), Nika Rivera (bass), Christoffer Villanueva (drum),

http://www.facebook.com/FaTiMa-Band/215307875156905?ref=ts
www.myspace.com/nikaisabelle


5. Fatima was an alias of 80s synth pop artist Georg Kajanus and Frankie Boulter (a.k.a. DatA). They produced the club hit “Hassan” which was remixed by Razormaid. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fatima">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.