Hailing from Rouen (France), Fatum Elisum was formed in march 2007 with the following members, Céline (keyboards), Hugo (lead guitar, also member of Last Offender), Christophe (guitar), Sator (drums) and Asgeirr (bass guitar); and with the intention of playing doom death metal. After several weeks of writing music and rehearsals, the band decided to go on without any keyboards, in order to play a more gloomy music.

In July 2007, Ende (ex member of Warkult and Area 51) joined the band as singer. Quickly, the quintet composed three songs. On November the 3rd 2007, Fatum Elisum did his first gig in Emporium Galorium, in Rouen, opening for Indesinence and Ataraxie. After that, the band continued to rehearse and played once again at Emporium Galorium with two local bands, Absynth and Yuck, on March the 1st 2008. On May the 31st 2008, Fatum Elisum played at Le Klub in Paris with Esoteric, Rising Dust and Lava.

In June and July 2008 Fatum Elisum recorded his first album with Julien Bous of Post Ghost Recordings, the latter one mixed and mastered this album in September. In October 2008, the band separated from his former drummer Sator. Christophe, Asgeirr's brother, joined the band in November 2008. In April 2009, the band played at the first edition of the Rotomagus Doomicus Metallicus Fest, sharing the stage with Mournful Congregation, Ataraxie and Longing For Dawn. The same month a deal was signed with English label Aesthetic Death (Esoteric, Eibon, Murkrat, Stumm …) for a release in September 2009.

Fatum Elisum plays doom death metal in the old way, without keyboards or female vocals. The band is inspired by My Dying Bride, Paradise Lost, Anathema, Cathedral, Saint Vitus, Mourning Beloveth, Evoken, Ataraxie, Indesinence, Deinonychus, Bethlehem, Shining, Silencer, Hellhammer and Celtic Frost; and by these following literary references: Antonin Artaud, Cioran, William Blake, the Coran, the Bible, Bardo Thodol, Charles Beaudelaire, Lautréamont, François Villon, Joachim Du Bellay, Nietzche and Schopenhauer. . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fatum+Elisum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.