At least four bands named 'Fauna' exist:

1. A reclusive American dark ambient/black metal band. They released two demos titled Rain and The Hunt in 2007, each composed of a single song of over an hour in length. Rain was released on Aurora Borealis in 2008; a release of The Hunt followed in late 2009 with live drums replacing the drum machine of the original. An additional, digital release of The Hunt followed via Bandcamp that removed the Aurora Borealis CD's lossy mastering and gaps between tracks. The band's third album, Avifauna, was released in 2012 via Pesanta Urfolk on double vinyl and CD, although an earlier live performance had surfaced on the Internet under the title "Feathainne" years earlier. Two additional cycles have been conceived and performed, although it is unclear if they have been recorded yet. Band members also appear in Echtra, Threnos, Fearthainne, Alethes, and Sadhaka.
 
2. Argentinian digital cumbia duo heralding from the ZZK Records label and Club Zizek in Buenos Aires. Fauna has released two full albums, as well as contributed to many compilations and collaborations with artists like Ghislain Poirier, El Remolon, Frikstailers, and others. Pioneers of the global cumbia scene since 2003, they’ve made a name for themselves in their home of Mendoza, Argentina and around the world. Fauna is Color Kit (Christian del Negro) and Catar_sys (Federico Rodríguez, who left this Earth in Nov 2010), both on voice and beat making. They released their first album La Manita de Fauna (ZZK Records, 2008), pure jungle cumbia with lyrics that transcended the message, mixing playfulness and consciousness, a portrait of life on the foot of the Andes. 
Fauna's second album Manshines was ready for editing when Catar_sys passed on, after an unforgettable South American tour through Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela and Brasil together with Villa Diamante. 

3. A Russian trip-hop outfit. The release of this Fauna album have been anticipated for the last four years for it is the one most complete and reflecting Fauna mood in the best way. Momentary cut of the surrounding world and feeling of eternity are equally inherent to each track of this record. Hymn to the emptiness, to its so varied phenomena is the essence and deep meaning of Have U Ever Talked To Angels?

4. Osnovan i pokrenut kao duo projekt, Fauna od kraja 2017. radi na svojim nadolazećim pjesmama. Ime iza kojeg se kriju Iva Čupić i Kristijan Cindrić, dvojac je koji tvori osnovu i esenciju benda, a njihova je glazba kreativni odušak kroz koji izražavaju svoje misli, osjećaje i emocije. U pogledu žanrovskih odrednica, Fauna na domaću scenu donosi nešto potpuno novo, a istovremeno i nešto vrlo dobro poznato. Okviri su to nečeg što možemo nazvati sneni, art- ili psihodelični pop, ali iznad svega toga Fauna se uspijeva odvojiti te nametnuti svoju ideju i viziju. 

Nakon što određeno vrijeme provode razvijajući ideje i u stvaranju pjesama samostalno, Cindrić kao autor glazbe i aranžmana te Čupić kao autorica tekstova i glavna vokalistica, uviđaju potrebu i prvenstveno izuzetnu priliku da svoj prvotni projekt prošire, kako bi pjesmama dali prostora i mogućnosti koje i zaslužuju. Za aranžmane koji postaju sve zahtjevniji i glazbu koja postaje višeslojna i progresivnija nije preostalo drugog rješenja te je bilo potrebno okupiti dodatne ljude i stvoriti pravi bend. 

Tako se tijekom 2018. godine autorskom duetu Fauna pridružuju još i Mirna Čupić (vokal, gitara), Beata Grobenski (gitara) te Matko Podobnik (bubnjevi), čime se cijela ideja i sva nastojanja upotpunjuju. Nakon nekoliko mjeseci proba i uvježbavanja autorskog materijala, bend počinje raditi na snimanju i produkciji glazbe. Prvi rezultati vidljivi su u obliku pjesme odnosno prvog pravog studijskog singla "Kaliko".  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fauna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.