Faust Again is a metal hardcore band from Poznan (Poland). 

Current line-up: 

Adrian "Ady" Klementowski - bass

Aleksander "Olas" Data - guitar

Wojtek "Dyzio" Warnke - guitar

Marcin "X" Palecki - drums

Marcin "Pysh" Pyszora - vox

Biography:
Faust Again was formed in late 1999 in Grudziadz (Poland) as an outlet for emotions and reflections. Five kids, who decided to contribute their talents to a band with strange name, have always treated their music as a vehicle for feelings and thoughts through which they can communicate with their listeners. Driven by blend of emotions their work has always been marked with sincerity and easily escapes any categorization and transcends musical genres and labeling. Faust Again developed their characteristic, powerful sound, which combines classical death metal elements with everything that stands for word "progression".
In 2003 band got hooked up by German label called Circulation Records (Heaven Shall Burn, Narziss) and started performing live widely. At that time Faust Again shared the stages with bands like: Unearth, Darkest Hour, Cataract, Maroon or Deadlock to name a few and very soon gained the reputation of the hottest and most intense metal/hardcore act out of Poland.
May 2003 was the release date of Faust Again debut album called "Seizing Our Souls" and since then band has become even more mad and restless. The album gathered lots of enthusiastic reviews from the paper magazines (Metal Hammer, Rock Hard, Legacy) as well as from the biggest internet portals such as Digital Metal, Swedish Metal, Vegan Hardcore or Poisonfree. Faust Again focused on touring to spread their name across the Europe and energetic and intense performances paved their way to Pressure Festival (among bands like Napalm Death, Hatebreed, Bleeding Through, Zao or Fear My Thoughts to name a few) as well as to Burning Season Festival (Austria) and Fluff Fest (Czech Republic), which all gathered thousands hard-core and metal fans from almost all continents.
In the meantime group was asked by Malaysian label called Dyslexia Record to participate, together with bands Cassandra and The Phoenix, in cross-continental project called “The regional alliance”. Faust Again delegated three of their already released songs and one special bonus song called “Circle of confusion” to mark their presence on the Asian soil. The same song appeared on the animal rights benefit music sampler called “Until every cage is empty” released by English Southern Animal Rights Coalition, which also includes songs from Goldfinger, Freya, Good Riddance, Arkangel and Anti-Flag.
In June 2005 Faust Again got into Rape Of Harmonies studio (Germany) to record their second album called “Hope Against Hope”. This new album was once again released by Circulation Records (on 16th of January 2006). “Hope Against Hope” received warm feedback from press (good reviews in German “Metal Hammer” and “Rock Hard”) and promotion of the album was emphasized by shows around the Europe with bands like Born From Pain, Heaven Shall Burn, Neaera, Terror, The Ocean, Betzefer, Fall of Serenity, Misery Speaks and many more.
On February 2006 Faust Again had their debut on the Polish television. People involved in the broadcast called “Beyond the control” invited the group to host their program.
In the beginning of 2007 Faust Again started cooperation with Go Down Believing booking agency from Cologne (Germany). In March 2007 band played their first shows in Belarus and Russia. Soon after Russian label called IML offered a license deal to release all Faust Again albums in Eastern Europe countries.
Faust Again spent the fall of the year on preparing material for band’s third album. In October 2007 band was honored to participate in Maroon’s (Century Media artist) new record release party which gathered over 1000 people.
In 2008 for the first time Faust Again toured over the Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. They also supported New York hardcore legend Biohazard on their exclusive show in Poland. In the summer time band recorded seven demo tracks to demonstrate how the new album will sound like. Soon after that they got signed to German label Bastardized Recordings. Faust Again third album called “The Trial” will be released on 22nd of May 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Faust+Again">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.