1)  Fazer, a Jazz band from Munich, Germany. Martin Brugger (aka Occupanther) , trumpeter Matthias Lindermayr , guitarist Paul Brändle as well as Simon Popp and Sebastian Wolfgruber (both drums) who all met while studying at the Academy for Music and Performing Arts in Munich. 
Their unique sound is cut from a diverse range of Western-African polyrhythm and classical indian music to dub-techno and post-rock. 
Hailing from Munich, a city with influential jazz labels like ECM, ACT or enja, the young musicians want to take their own path by defying genre boundaries while maintaining the tension and the immediacy of improvised music. 
The unusual instrumentation is by no means arbitrary. 
Two drummers allow for rhythmic patterns during the absence of a pianist / keyboardist leaves a lot of room, both rhythmic and harmonic, for the musicians to fill. Lindermayr and Brändle with virtuosity between soloing and comping, backed by Brugger who plays modestly with only the most essential harmonic determination. Now Fazer are going public with their debut album "Mara".
Recorded over the course of 9 months, the record is a manifestation of the musical process the band went through in this period. Among the first tracks were Woody and Asante, both drawing the listener into mesmerizing rhythms, powerful and beguilingly repetetive. Glow, Glow or the titletrack Mara, which marks a turning point in this evolution. The result is a diverse record that features an array of different emotions and takes you on a trip into the sound world of this group.
Their new album 'Plex' was released on January 2022.

2) Richard Rawson  (born February 5, 1987) is better known by his stage name, Fazer. He is famous for being a part of hip hop band, N-Dubz along with his ex-girlfriend Tulisa and her cousin,  Dappy. He is an English rapper, producer, DJ and songwriter who was born in Camden, Greater London, United Kingdom.

Whilst a part of the group, N-Dubz, Fazer won many MOBO awards until in 2011, Tulisa announced that N-Dubz would be taking a two-year hiatus, however, they eventually split up later in the year. Since this time, rumours have been circulating on the band getting back together. 

Fazer has released a multitude of singles since being a solo artist such as Killer, Jammi Clabbers and Hyper Bass. However, most of these were highly unsuccessful and he has currently not released any singles as of 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fazer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.