Fear The Setting Sun - are best to be described as an exciting journey through the art of creative and foremost original heavy music. Combining dynamic riffing and organic ambience sounds, that both captivate and explore new landscapes.

Consisting of three members, Michael (Guitars & Vocals) Samuel (Drums) & Arlen (Bass & Vocals), the trio set out to create music in a unique context. Genre-less in there limits to songwriting, and complete D.I.Y ethics, push the band into a certain musical independence. Stripping back the need to fit a social or musical mould. Having the ability to change and vary sounds, creates a beast that can easily transfix there live shows to any genre.

Formed in late 2008, the trio spent months writing a strong and formidable set of songs. After spending much of 2009/2010 performing locally, The recording of their first work of songs began. The self titled E.P, was released privately Sept 2010. Which saw the band support U.S Stoner Doom legends “Acid King”, U.S Doom band “Cough” and Estonian Doom band “Talbot”.

2011 saw the band expose there sound Internationally, playing club and festival dates throughout Thailand, Indonesia and New Zealand. Whilst writing a new collection of material. 
Entering into the studio in late 2011 and early 2012, the band started tracking and recording their second full length album entitled “Of Slumber Woods Once Spoke”. Comprising there strongest, most compelling songs to date. A thought provoking and entrancing effort captured with a immense focus on originality.

“Of Slumber Woods Once Spoke” was released October 2012, Independently. In support of the new opus, the band embarked on release tour that covered New Zealand, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia. 

As the band puts it best - “ We are immensely and solely focused on creating our own sound. We all have musical inspirations, but we are really trying to forge our own sound. We have a structure that works well for us, without the need to be classed as one sound. Our passion for the music hopefully is foreseeable in not only our albums but our live performances too”. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fear+the+Setting+Sun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.