There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Feathers is the electropop project of Anastasia Dimou, formed in 2011 in Austin, Texas, USA. The debut album If All Now Here was released on 28 May,2013, after which, many began referring to them as the “female Depeche Mode.” They have opened for Depeche Mode,The Cure, Blouse and Social Studies in 2013. The latest EP, Only One was released on 13 January,2014. The project has no fixed line-up so far and alternates between Live line-up. Webpages: http://www.feathers.fm - http://www.facebook.com/feathersmusic

2) Feathers is a freak folk band founded by Kyle Thomas and Kurt Weisman. Although they have connections with neo-freak folk guru Devendra Banhart, this group tends to go its own way and produces music which calls to mind the progressive folk sounds of much earlier acts such as the Incredible String Band Moths and Rumple Stiltzken Commune.
The genesis of the band came when Kurt met Kyle were coworkers at a record store and began to play music together. Vocalist Meara joined after showing up to see the band perform at a local venue, and by the time they released the self-produced EP "Gnomeozoic Live" the band had grown to eight members. That year also brought new gigs, including one opening for Andy Vetiver in 2004. That show spurred interest by Banhart, and a full-length LP on his Gnomonsong label would follow, as well as an appearance on his "Cripple Crow" album.
Feathers' members prefer to be acknowledged by first-names only (Kyle, Asa, Jordan, Greg, Meara, Ruth, Shana and Ethan), and tend to shun musical labels, including that of being a freak folk act. Their various EPs were all produced in limited quantities and are a challenge to find, while their latest self-titled release has given them some attention thanks to Banhart's promotion and mentions in the likes of Pitchfork. The band is currently based in Brattleboro, Vermont. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Feathers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.