There are nine artists with the FEEDBACK:

1)The FEEDBACK group was founded in September 1999 in Tolmin, Slovenia. At that time there were only three members in the group (guitar - Matej Magajne, drums - Andrej Maver and organ Miloš Leban), but in November 2004 another member joined the group (bass player - Andrej Klavžar). These members still form the group today.

Performs their own instrumental music, which is a blend of rock, blues and jazz. The influence of jazz can be felt more strongly. Their instruments come from the 70s, which is reflected in their sound. Their music reflects their own feelings, the consequence of which are lively and playful songs. Together, they create music based on improvisation and experiences. The members of the group have known each other and created music since 1995. At that time they played under a different name and with different members. They played mostly arrangements of other older authors and different styles of music, which gave a good starting point for FEEDBACK group. They discovered the style of music and playing on their own, and formed it through the years. Under the name FEEDBACK they played throughout Slovenia, mostly in clubs and festivals. It is worth mentioning following gigs: Rock Otocec, where they represented the young and unrecognized groups, and Jazz/Blues festival in Nova Gorica. They are able to play with various groups due their adjustability. 

Copied from: http://www.feedback.si/about.html (Feedback's site is in slovene language as well as in english language)

2) FEEDBACK is a German rock band from Bavaria. Already founded in the seventies at St. Ottilien as a school band FEEDBACK got very popular in 2003 with their album "Rock my soul".
Their most famous member is Abbot Primate Notker Wolf, the current head of the Benedictines.

3) Feedback is a London rock band. The band has had as many lineups as Michael Jackson has had children. Keyboarders, drummers and guitarists have passed by with all the longevity of a particularly feeble butterfly, the only constants being Andrew (Lead Guitar/Vox) and George Parry (Bass), who have been in the band from start to finish. However, after a couple of name changes and a vast number of drummers, the band appears to have decided on a lineup.

The two girls of the band, Charlie (Lead vocals/rythmn guitar) and Lauren (Keyboard/guitar), were introduced in the early Spring of 2006. Charlie began singing lead vocals alongside Andrew in the Summer of 2006. Lauren took this opportunity to broaden her talents and begin playing guitar on certain tracks at the same time.
Adam (Drums) was introduced shortly after in the Autumn of 2006.

4)The music can be described as melodic alternative rock with equally powerful guitar riffs and vocal melodies. The lead singer displays a mix of throaty vocals and deep meaning, with the guitars and drums driving the music with purpose and feeling. The sound is based on the American alternative scene with influences like Incubus, Hoobastank, Staind and Bush.

This five piece band is set to make a stir in the South African music industry with their commanding and emotion driven songs and uncompromising drive to break through. Their songs inspire people to listen and feel the music with them. It is something that you can tap your foot and nod your head to. At the same time people can relate to the meaningful lyrics and moving melodies.

http://www.feedbackband.co.za/
http://cdbaby.com/cd/feedbackrock 

5) Feedback is a Bangladeshi band that started and got popular in the late 80s and early 90s in Bangladesh. They had released 4 albums till 1994. After that the band's lead vocal Maksud left and formed the band "Maksud O Dhaka". After a long time during 2005, Feedback released their fifth album "O2".

6) Feedback is a German band from Berlin who claim to make a mix of Reggae, Funk, HipHop, Rock, Latin, Ska and Jazz.

7) Feedback czech funky/blues/rock band from Zábřeh.

8) FeedBack is a German band from Bremervörde in Lower Saxony. The rock-band was founded in the year 2000 and consists of 4 members. Their songs are in English and German.

9 FeedBack was the first project of Matt Beat of the band Electric Needle Room.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Feedback">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.