Fekaliza Thor is death metal band, originating from Svit, Slovakia, which was formed in 2007 by two young artists Andrej (playing the guitar) and Majo (playing the drums), with no or little knowledge of music. Another such artist, Admin (who surprisingly also played drums) joined the band a few days later. They soon recorded a compilation of a few songs "First Decade of Fekalization" as a demo. 

After that, still in 2007, Majo left the band (and country) and the other two members changed their name to  Default Ass Fault. Next year, Majo returned and as they continued their other project, Default Ass Fault, Majo pointed out it would be interesting to reform their band, and so on Christmas 2008 they released another demo: "Tribute to Vasil Žuló (a.k.a. First Decade of Fekalization Remastered)".

Then a personal change occurred, Andrej went playing the drums, while Majo played bass guitar. They recorded two improvisatory albums in this way, "Umenie Srania" and "Masakrácia Sakrálnych Exkrementov", while declaring they were "Improvisatory Brutal Death Metal Drum & Bass" band.

The band was later put on hold, however, according to  bandzone.cz/fekalizathor they are soon going to record and release their 5th album, called Coprophagy.

As to influences, we cannot really talk about influences in the beginning, although they tried to play simple death metal, similar to that of Six Feet Under. We cannot talk about influences in the mid phase of their existence, when their albums were improvisatory. However, in present situation, they are to be influenced by bands such as Devourment, Infertile Surrogacy or Cerebral Effusion.

As to lyrical themes, they made up their own ideology, called Fekal Science / Fekalization, which is supposed to be bioanthropoological, philosophical, but also social or economic idea of ruling this world. That is one of lyrical themes, other is the made up leader if this, Vasil Žuló, excrements, faeces ar another. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fekaliza+Thor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.