“100% VINYL, NO ADDITIVES. HIS STYLE SENDS YOU OVER THE EDGE. THIS MAN IS BATTLING HIS WAY TO THE TOP, AND HE LOOKS UNSTOPPABLE.”         

Mayday Poland about

FELIX KRÖCHER


His name is synonymous with techno, made in Germany. His mixes are surgically precise, energizing the music into what seems like perpetual motion. What is special about his sound is that it moves the masses without mugging them, drawing its strength from the lightest of touches.                             

FACING GENERATION   The effortlessness with which Felix Kröcher masters his craft has made him a leading light for a new generation of DJs. Kröcher grew up to the sound of Frankfurt, the city where he was born in 1983.  Whilst other kids were more keen on bikes or computers, Felix acquired his first decks at the age of 10 and played his first gigs in public at 16, accompanied by his father, Felix K. senior. Having finished his schooling, he began a traineeship at the Sunshine Live youth radio station. 

FOLLOWING FUNCTION   As his network grew, so too did his ideas and horizons.  In 2002 he set up his own events, inviting national and international guests of the electronic music scene to join him. Subsequently they also spent time together in the studio and in 2004 Felix brought out his first record – the Decksharks EP. In the same year his Hardliner radio show made its debut on Sunshine Live – and is still going strong today. 2005 saw Kröcher take on a residency slot in Frankfurt’s famous U60311 club, which has now progressed into a regular monthly series, picking up Chris Liebing’s legendary Friday night. The readers of Raveline, Germany’s biggest electronic music magazine, voted Felix Kröcher as “#1 DJ National of the Year 2007”. 

FORMING LISTEN   Felix Kröcher can count 61 releases to his name, including artist albums and EPs, remixes and a DVD - “The Live Collection”, working together with such renowned labels as Alphabet City, Compressed, Kne’Deep, V2 and ZYX. If its techno you are after, you need Felix Kröcher. You’ll find his name on DJ Rush playlists and club compilations for Palazzo in Bingen.  To add to the fun, Felix Kröcher launched his own label: FK Recordings. Quite a workload on top of a single-minded, route one CV, powering ever forwards. It comes as no surprise that Felix Kröcher has firmly established himself as one of the top DJs on the European festival circuit. 

FEATURING FUTURE   The electronic music scene is home to a new generation of young DJs who have not only picked up the baton from the old guard but have their own fresh way of doing things. Kröcher is one of them. Still only in his early twenties, he has gone about his business methodically and conscientiously, earning himself a place on the international DJ map. Yet in spite of his global player status, Felix Kröcher is remaining focussed on his development as an artist. Whatever direction his sound might take in the future, he is destined to remain a force to be reckoned with. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Felix+Kr%C3%B6cher">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.