1) Femke Meines (born in 2000) lives with her 3 little sisters and her parents in Tuitjenhorn, The Netherlands. Last year Femke already tried to reach the finals of the Dutch national selection of Junior Eurovision Song Contest, but in 2012 she took revenge by winning it with the song Tik Tak Tik that she wrote herself. Because she believes time is going too fast, she wishes to freeze the time. Femke has the desires to do a million things like feeding the cat or taking the dog out for a walk, but the only thing she really wants is to stay forever young and never grow up. The producer of her song is Tjeerd Oosterhuis, who was also responsible for the winning Junior Eurovison song of Ralf, ‘Click Clack’ in 2009. Femke is a typical bubbling girl who loves to sing and dance, but also finds enough time to skeeler, swim or eat lots of chocolate. Her biggest dream is to be a famous singer. But when this goal will not be reached, she wants to become a hairdresser or maybe a maternity assistant. The Netherlands hosted the 2012 edition of the Junior Eurovision Songcontest. She’s enjoys the advantage of staying for the Contest in the Netherlands which means she doesn’t have to travel to another country because Femke has fear of flying. Femke got 69 points which gave her a seventh place in the competition.

2) Femke Weidema is a singer-songwriter that studies at the Berklee College of Music. The last few years she been writing for musicals, individual artists and labels, and recorded 3 solo albums a single and a videoclip. This year she won the Berklee Songwriting Contests, and performed in the Netherlands, Germany, England, and the USA. Femke now lives in LA where she works as songwriter, she is signed with Strengholt Publishing and writes for Damien S, Andy J, Sven van Hees and many more. As a solo performer she has already toured California and was the opening act of Nikka Costa. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Femke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.