There are 3 bands who share the name "Fermata."  please see  _fermata_ for the acoustic chamber rock  band from Madison Wisconsin.

Fermata is a legendary instrumental jazzrock band from Slovakia. It was established in 1973 by lead guitarist, and the only stable member, František Griglák (previous member of Prúdy and Collegium Musicum), together with Tomáš Berka (keyboards), Peter Szapu (drums) and Anton Jaro (bass).

First, self-titled album appeared in 1975, released by Opus. The band sounded extraordinary, and fulfilled their vision of difficult music for prepared listeners.

Second album, entitled “Pieseň z hôľ” was released year later. Peter Szapu left the band and was replaced by Cyril Zelenák. The sound got much coloured contours.The idea of using harmonic melodies usual for slovak folklore proved as a good one.

The third afford, called “Huascaran” contains a 4-piece rock suit inspired of a tragic story about czechoslovak climbing expedition in Peru. Released in 1977, the album introduced new members: Ladislav Lučenič (bass), Karol Oláh (drums).

After “Huascaran”, another line-up change happened. New bassplayer, Fedor Frešo joined the band - a rock veteran best-known for playing in Soulmen, Prúdy, Collegium Musicum, or another jazzrock legend from Czech republic: Modrý Efekt (also known as Blue Effect). In this line-up, the band recorded three excellent albums: Dunajská legenda , Biela planéta (both 1980), and Generation (1981). Griglák’s straightforward, tuny, and instrumentalistic writing, together with Berky’s artful approach are excelently suplemented with Frešo/Oláh rhythm tandem.

But after the years the band changed its line-up again. After a succesfull tour, Fedor Frešo left, and Dalibor Jenis replaced him. Also, second keyboardist and singer, Juraj Bartovič came in, and “Ad Libitum” is being recorded afterwards. It was the first album, with vocals in Fermáta’s career. it was released in 1984.

After this record, the band disbanded for a couple of years, and came back in 1991, now renamed as Fermata. František Griglák renewed the line-up completely. Beside him, a new generation of musicians got in. Keyboardist Martin Hanzel, bassplayer Márius Bartoň, and a drummer, Jindřich Plánka.

Fermata’s eight installement, called “Simile” was released in 1991. It contained only instrumentals again. The most significant hit “Spomienka na Amsterdam” is still played on concerts.

The same line-up recorded and released “Real Time” in 1994, and then another hiatus followed.

They returned in 1996, when František Griglák and Martin Hanzel were joined by the old friend Fedor Frešo, and drums were played by various guests, but mostly Igor Skovay. Gigs were much appreciated, and the composing of the new follow-up also started, but side musical activities of some members caused another break for Fermata after one year of performing.

So Fermata’s definite comeback happened in summer 1999. The concert program was renewed in june, and in august the band entered studio. Frešo and Griglák hired a very talented young jazz keyboardist, Peter Preložník, and a very popular percussionist, Martin Valihora.

These members recorded Fermata’s 10th afford, the album simply called “X”. It symbolizes an unexplored land Terra X, or Terra Incognita.

The year 2005 brought the record “Next”.

Nowadays, Fermata is still performing live, with Skovay on drums. A live CD/DVD called “Live v klube Za zrkadlom” was recorded in 2007.

Current line-up:

František Griglák - lead guitar
Fedor Frešo - bass
Igor “Teo” Skovay - drums
Peter Preložník - keyboards 

http://www.fermata.sk/portraits.htm

Fermata is also an acoustic band from Madison, WI consisting of:

Lisa Mazza- Vocals
Jon Koschoreck- Guitar, Vocals
Cody Davis- Upright Bass
Matt Manske- Mandolin, Banjo, Accordion
Karl Stuen- Viola, Violin, Vocals

////

Fermata is also an alternative rock band from California. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fermata">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.