Fernando Lagreca _ artistic profile jan-09

Fernando lagreca was born at Montevideo, Uruguay, even nowadays residing in Barcelona, since end of 2002.

Member of Innova, and 33media.art/visor, both collectives of digital artists, Fernando Lagreca has a penchant for the latest electronic music tendencies such as clicks & cuts, microhouse, techno,etc., as well as his pop-song writer side. His prolific career includes a good number of record references on both CD and 12” format, spread about in labels such as Autoplate, Original Dance Music and
Climax Recordings.

Running parallel to his record production, Lagreca also is sound designer for web pages, videos, and produces sound ambience for exhibitions and music for video-commercials. 

Far form neglecting on melodies -a basic ingredient of his dance music career-, he is particularly interested in ambient music which he mixes up with glitchs and oscilations. He has released three albums in the electronic/folk german label Autoplate (www.autoplate.org), one ep in “sumo de house”s frech
label, another album with realaudio.ch net.label (switzerland), and he is currently promote his tracks through your own label in Barcelona, called Greknoise recordings.

His styles round Minimal and Tech-house, for dance clubs, in wich the musician develops live acts based in a machinedrum+monomachine set, and the other face, ambient pop melódico with guitars and vocoders, and electronic in-noise frequencies, combining radio cuts, static, loops and another kind of generated noise with sounds of our daily environment, showing the most experimental side of the artist. 

Currently, he has just finished his new album, “cool hunter”, with subtle-popvocoder melodies and harmfull guitars.

Selected Discography:
Colpi di Sole (2006), Autoplate, (Alemania), folk-pop-electrónica-vocoder style
Funicular (2005), Realaudio.ch (Suiza) (electrónica)
Nadador (2005), Autoplate.org (Alemania) net.CD (electrónica)
Inland (2004), Sweet Smelling Surfaces (Francia) net.CD (electrónica)
Músicas Urbanas Barcelona (recopilación) 2004
Divine:Fix 2, 12” (2003) Climax Recordings (NewCastle, UK,)(tribal)
Suave, (2003), Autoplate Rec (Manheim, Alemania) net.CD (electronica)
Good for Dance, CD-R (2002) Montevideo (house)
303 Sessions, CD-R (2000, 2001) Montevideo (techno)
Fase D, CD-data (2000) Montevideo (electrónica)
Innova, CD-R (1999) Montevideo (electrónica, artistas varios)

Info_web: www.greknoise.com / myspace.com/fernandolagreca
Contact: greknoise@yahoo.es
Phone: +34656944514 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fernando+Lagreca">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.