Festering Sore formed in early 1992. Inspired by 'power trio' metal bands like Venom, Sodom, Slaughter(Can.), Destruction, VoiVod (sort-of a trio - only three play instruments...), and others, Festering Sore set about taking the early-thrash stylings of the aforementioned power-trios and fusing them with a good amount of the emerging new death metal style.

Massive drug and alcohol habits stymied the band's growth, hence it taking six years(!) for the band to get their shit together enough to make connections with Atlanta-based Unsung Heroes Records. UHR Pres. Mark Vignati attended a gig and was impressed enough to offer them a deal to record a demo, and based on the response sign the band. Right about this time (early 1999) Uncle Fester went AWOL, so they recruited Paul Bearer (of fellow-UHR band Rampage) to fill in on drums for the recording of their four-song demo, "Fucked".

The demo was itself like a festering sore on the UHR roster, and Mark was so impressed with the results that he not only immediately signed the band he also kicked Rampage into the studio to record a couple of songs so that he could release the "Fucked" demo on a split CD. This CD was released in mid-1999 to rave reviews.

Uncle Fester resurfaced after an abortive attempt to start a porno career (trying to compete with arch-nemesis Jason G., the drummer for Gortician). The band set about working up the songs that they had written over their six-year existence, and when Rampage finally vacated Bloody Leg Studios after recording Bellum Infinitum, Festering Sore entered Bloody Leg Studios again and set about recording their debut full-length, Chlorine for the Gene Pool. Eight months later it was complete, and unleashed on the world. So check it out or die a worthless scumfuck, or as Lance would put it, "HUMAN CATTLE"!!!.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Festering+Sore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.