Fetal Zombie has a unique, eclectic sound, with songs that range from metal, rock, and alternative, to fluffy, with understandable to soaring vocals...a highly collaborative project featuring several great vocalists and musicians...

Chris Eschborn, guitar, bass, keys, vocals, lyrics: veteran of the club scene Las Vegas, San Diego, Sacramento, LA, Geffen session guitarist with several #1 Billboard hits under his belt, making his mark with a style all his own.

Jeff Kimpland, vocals/lyrics: renowned vocalist (Saharra), has been signed to, and continues to work with many record labels (Capitol, Arista, Sony). Producer of several cd's for Charlie Thomas (original Drifters), has performed with Mary Wilson (Supremes), and Ben E. King, toured with acts as Dream Theater, Rainbow, Zebra, Joe Lynn Turner, and sings the national anthem at Buffalo Bill's games. He also works with many charitable organizations. A true king among men.

Bobbi Berracah, vocals/lyrics: renowned vocalist, winner of many top country music awards * 2013 NACMAI Most Promising New Country Female Entertainer of the Year * NHCMA New Country Female Vocalist and Entertainer of the Year 2012 * Colgate Country Showdown - Augusta - 2nd place 2008, 09, 10 - 1st place 2012 * PTSCMA Modern Country Female Vocalist and Entertainer of the Year 2007, 08, 09 * DECMA New Country Female Vocalist and Entertainer of the Year 2004, 05, 06, 07, 09 She performs live with Freeze Frame, Rizing Tide, Johnny Rock, Go Ask Alice, and benefit functions. She really gets inside my head with her lyrics.

Jeff Moscone, drums: has been on several US tours with the rock group Jetboy and Stephen Pearcy of RATT, including high profile rock festivals such as Rocklahoma, South Texas Rock Fest and Rock the Bayou (all with capacity crowds of 50,000) and shared the stage with such legendary bands as Poison, Cinderella, Skid Row, Sammy Hagar, Queensryche and RATT. A true drummer's drummer, willing to take on any challenge.

Moth, bass/drums: grammy-nominated producer (Big Wild Studios), guitarist for Taj Mahal, multi-instrumentalist. Moth has worked with artists, labels, and networks as Willie Nelson, Kid Rock, Graham Nash, Stephen Stills, Al Greene, Dion Warwick, Don Ho, Warner Brothers, Chrysalis, HBO, Showtime, ESPN, MTV, VH1, CBS, ABC, NBC, Hanna Barbara, 20th Century Fox. One of the best guys you could ever meet.

Fetal Zombie would like to thank everyone for their awesome contributions: Dirk Verbeuren (Nuclear Blast, courtesy Toontracks), Ricky Click (some lyrics on Journey's End), Chris Jamison (lyrics on Scream), Bobby Campbell, Josh Rossman (lyrics on Dangerous Fun) - drums / Debra Beach (Caligrrl poems) - lyrics / Spider (Ronald Seaman), Brandon Anicich, Kerr Lordygan, Lori Ann Day, Brooke McCullough - vocals, lyrics / Jason Galbraith - saxophone / Alberto de la Cruz - bass / everyone that helped the effort to form the live band, you know who you are, and we appreciate YOU! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fetal+Zombie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.