The name Feuerhake (German: Fire-Hook) is enough to create all sorts of associations: Fire represents emotions, passion and heat. And fiery it is when the Hamburger DJ and producer Stefan Feuerhake- alias DJ Feuerhake-spins the decks.

"My music is intended to fascinate the crowd and pull them into its spell. By being in contact with the people and creating tension arches, by and by I gain the trust of the dancers. This enables me to go on a musical journey of an unusual nature with them. In my sets I do not limit myself to any particular style but combine very varied musical directions with each other." Hereby he always creates surprising moments in his sets. These are called forward by the unusual choice of songs, which initially astound people and then figuratively captivates them, a method that again and again creates new highlights and makes his sets unique.

DJ Feuerhake (born in 1971) is one of the most popular Hamburg DJ's. He has already reached people all over the world with his scene crossing style. His performaces have taken him to France, Belgium, Mexico, Slovenia, Thailand and Switzerland to name but a few.

Both small Trance or Techno parties with 100 guests to the large festivals with over 10.000 dancers like the legendary Boom festival in Portugal, or the Lovefield festival, belong to his places of work. In Germany DJ Feuerhake could by now publish a travelling book, as his gigs have taken him across the entire country. The famous Hamburger club Phonodrome as well as the Wuppertaler Butan club are regularly played at by DJ Feuerhake. DJ Feuerhake is also a resident at the Hamburger club Atisha. Furthermore he has organised numerous events, for example the party series "Music for Lovers" which took place from 2001 to 2002 in the Hannover club Das Bad.

In 2001 DJ Feuerhake was awarded a special honour. The readers of Mushroom Magazine, the world's largest Psytrance Magazine voted him DJ of the year. His friendly and modest way has remained with him regardless of his succes and thereby he is a gladly seen DJ around the world.

If this wasn't enough DJ Feuerhake also has further ambitions. Already in 1998 he was a member of the renowned band Klangstrahler projekt based in Hannover. Out of this co-operation the popular "Nexus Feuerhake Remix" as well as the Album Sinnestäuschung came about. With the Vinyl Maxi "Only One Way" in 1999 DJ Feuerhake released the first music under his own name. In 2000 his debut album Feuerhake appeared on the Hamburg label Free Form Records. Various remix offers followed from numerous labels, among them the sublabel Polydor Zeitgeist. Following this his second album appeared in 2002 "Excess All Areas" (also with Free Form). DJ Feuerhake's creative urge continues and so music enthusiasts are already now looking forward to his third album.
URLs:http://www.djfeuerhake.com
In Groups:Klangstrahler Projekt <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Feuerhake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.