Fferyllt is a Folk Metal band from Krasnodar, Russia.

In the beginning the idea of creation of the project is appearing at the keyboarder and present leader Diarmaid's mind in late autumn of 2003, as soon as he has left the band he played before. The main concept of the Fferyllt project is the West-European Paganism, particularly Asatru and Druidism.

Originally the project “Fferyllt” was forethought as a studio one with engaging of session musicians. The preparing of material, its recording for searching the musicians is realizing in the first stage of the work. Diarmaid concentrates on the record process with purpose to distribute demo-versions into musician's environment. Singer O'Cella is participating in record work and writing lyrics. Two months later, with coming into the project of a new member, guitar player Alexey Godlevskiy, the first rehearsals had started.

In May 6-th 2007, the staff fills with two new musicians – bass player Alexander Lebedev, and singer Astrid. This day became the date of foundation of Fferyllt as a band. After a while the staff was filled with more two musicians – Ragnar (scream), and Andrew Awdik (lead guitar).

It was time of new ideas, first of all – new lyrics. The fair critic sounded from competent people. In summer 2007 the band has done a lot of work. The band has finished writing the material for the debut album.

In our songs we use the variations of celtic melodies, the West-European ethnic instruments (bagpipe, flute, bodhran) sound in arrangements, the spirit of the Nature is present in our lyrics, also there are the descriptions of some Celtic and Scandinavian Pagan holidays.

At this moment the band has started to record it's first album - “A Celtic Tale” We haven't any limitations of studio time so we have the opportunity to experiment. At this moment we have recorded demo versions of 4 our songs: “A Celtic Tale” (music by Diarmaid), “Night of the Woodgod”, (music by Diarmaid, lyrics by O'Cella), “Autumn's Gold”, (music by Diarmaid, lyrics by Astrid), and “Winds of Trondheimsfjorden”, (music and lyrics by Diarmaid). The samples of this songs you can find on page, dedicated to our music.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fferyllt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.