The band Fianna, was established by János Lang (fiddle) and Kornél Varga (guitar) in 1996. At the time, the band played only Traditional Irish Music. Through their dedication to the music, Fianna became popular outside Hungary too, particularly in those venues frequented by the fans of Traditional Irish music. It was turning point in the career of Fianna when Jani met the piper, Alan Burton during a tour in England. With this encounter, a new chapter has begun in the band’s life, resulting in a unique English-Hungarian musical co-operation. As a result of this joint work, Fianna’s first album "The Mad Skeleton" was deeply rooted in Traditional Irish music. Three new musicians, Ákos Kertész (percussion), Luke Daniels (melodeon) and Rick Foot (double bass) joined the band not long afterwards. This brought about an emergence of a slightly new direction, since the English musicians had always been keen on East European music, while at the same time their Hungarian counterparts had immersed themselves in Celtic styles. This is how Fianna developed their special flavour, a careful mixture of traditional European folk and modern musical elements with the roots of Celtic traditions. The musicians represent not only the world of music they grew up in, but at the same time Irish, English, Scandinavian, Hungarian and Balkan motifs are mixed in their own compositions. This can be heard on Fianna’s second album, ’Crame On!’, a more intimate and explorative route into their own interpretations and compositions. Fianna have been well received in tours over the recent years in many places including Hungary, France, Spain, England, Denmark and Austria. 

János Láng - fiddle, whistles 
Alan Burton - uillean pipes 
Kornél Varga - guitar, mandolin 
Luke Daniels - vocal, box 
Ákos Kertész - percussion 
Rick Foot - double bass 

Featuring: 
Sándor Kis - bodhran 
Csaba Tóth Bagi - guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fianna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.