Field Music are a band from Sunderland in north-east England led by brothers David and Peter Brewis. Commonly described as making "experimental pop" music, they have released eight 'proper' albums:  Field Music (2005), Tones of Town (2007), Field Music (Measure) (2010), Plumb (2012),  Commontime (2016), Open Here (2018),  Making A New World (2020), and  Flat White Moon (2021), all through Memphis Industries. They have also released a compilation of B-sides (Write Your Own History, 2006), a soundtrack (Music For Drifters, 2015) and a collection of cover versions (Field Music Play..., 2012). Another Shot, a four-track EP of songs written and recorded at the same time as the tracks on Flat White Moon, was released in October 2021.

Plumb was nominated for the 2012 Mercury Prize.

After the release of Tones of Town, the group announced a break, leading to solo releases by the brothers (David's "Sea From Shore" under the name School of Language, and Peter's album as The Week That Was, both 2008), before reconvening in 2009. Both brothers have continued releasing music outside of the band: School of Language now has 3 albums and an EP, while Peter has worked with contemporaries Paul Smith of Maxïmo Park (Frozen By Sight), as well as Sarah Hayes of Admiral Fallow (You Tell Me). In 2022, the Brewis brothers created their own record label (Daylight Saving Records) which will host what they refer to as "extra-curricular activities;" i.e., new releases from side projects and other related groups (such as Slug).

All Field Music albums were self-produced at the band's studio space in Sunderland.

Other musicians who have played in the group in some form include Andrew Moore, Tom English, Kevin Dosdale, Ian Black, Damo Waters, Andrew Lowther, Peter Gofton, Mark Simms, Emma Fisk, Peter Richardson, Liz Corney and Pauline Brandon. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Field+Music">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.