Genre
NecroCrust
Members
Badger P.o.D - Vokills

Ross Necro - Leads / Vocals

Jamie Christ - Rythms / Vocals

Fatboy - Bass

Jason KCHGH - Drums
Hometown
Aberdeen
Record Label
NecroChrist Productions
About
We don't play pub standards.
Biography
The idea for Fifteen Dead came about around early 2010. Whenever founding members Ross and Jamie were a few drinks down they'd talk about the concept behind it. What they wanted was to slam Crust Punk and Black Metal together to create something new and unique. After about half a year of forgetting all about it come the hangover, they actually got together and came up with the first Fifteen Dead song entitled "This is Scotland" in December 2010.

A few weeks later and the lineup was completed by Chris Bowers (drums), Alby Brew (bass) and Ryan "Badger" Watson (vocals). This lineup went on to record the Fifteen Dead Demo in Feb 2011. This rushed recording gathered the band a lot of interest at home and abroad and a UK and Irish tour being booked for the summer.

The band then sadly lost both Alby and Chris due to family and work commitments around March time. Two brilliant musicians stepped in however, Jason Rees (drums) and Paul "Fatboy" Shand (bass). This lineup can be heard on the bands DiY Gig Live Recordings release.

The next NecroCrust EP was released in August 2011. This was recorded in Jason's home studio with him behind the desk. This includes three new tracks that show how our sound has developed and the direction we're heading in.

Another three track EP is planned to be released by the end of the year after the October UK tour. Keep checking back for updates, we'll hopefully fire up some live recordings and re-recordings of a couple of demo songs soon!

NecroCrust!

- Ross Necro (August 2011)
Current Location
Aberdeen
Influences
Fukpig, Skitsystem, Gorgoroth, Darkthrone, Discharge, Tragedy, Anaal Nathrakh, Mayhem, Disclose, Immortal, etc.
Band Interests
Drinking and chasing clunge.
Website
http://fifteendead.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fifteen+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.