Fimbultyr, the band

Formed in October 2005 by Niclas Boman and Oskari Katainen, Fimbultyr started out without a name for the band and it contained only Niclas, Oskari and Jonas Arnberg on drums. The idea was to play some sort of melodic metal. They recruited Christofer Bergqvist on bass and vocals to fill those spots. After recruiting Christofer the name Fimbultyr was taken. Ideas were flowing and the songwriting was going good for the guys but they felt something was missing, something that would later turn out to be a big part of their music, namely a keyboard player.

To give the music that last majestic touch that they craved. Jasper Von de Verde was contacted and recruited to the band.

A few months went by and they felt that it was time to record what they had created to see where this was going, and so they did. After the demo was made Christofer decided that he wanted to focus on just his vocals and stepped down as the bassplayer, thus Fimbultyr had to recruit another member, which turned out to be Dennis.

Jasper was later removed from the band and replaced by Dag. Dennis was replaced by Fredrik on the bass duties.

Fimbultyr signed a record deal with Unexploded Records and in August 2008 released their debut album 'Gryende Tidevarv'. But the releaseparty of this album on the 13th of September was the last show for thee of the members. Guitarists Oskari and Niclas and Bassist Fredrik left and Fimbultyr and currently looking for new guitarists and bassist while they work on their second album.

A guitarist and bass-player has been found for Fimbultyr.

Current Lineup:
Christofer Bergqvist - Vocals
Dag - Synthesizers
Jonas Arnberg - Drums 
Mats - Guitar
Jonas Larsson - Bass

Ex Members:
Jasper Von de Verde - Synthesizers 
Dennis - Bass
Oskari Katainen- Guitars / Vocals
Niclas Boman - Guitars
Fredrik Joelsson - Bass
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fimbultyr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.