Originally named Tyranny, the band was born at the start of July '06. Unbeknown to them at the time,however, there was already a band name Tyranny (Lie), and thus changed their name to Fimbulvetr. Fimbulvetr literally translates to "Great Winter" (fimbul = great; vetr = winter) from Old Norse. Fimbulvetr, commonly referred to the "Winter of Winters" in English, marks the beginning of Ragnarök where the gods have a final battle which ends life on Earth. It will be a time of inumerable wars where "brothers will kill brothers."

The band emerged from the remains of the now defunct metal band BloodRush. The two founding members of the band, Oscar Bueno and Lucas Scalcione-Hahn, left the death metal scene to work in black metal. Their journey into the black metal scene, however, was short-lived and essentially non-existent. After this time, the two began to realize that their true calling lied elsewhere. After Lucas wrote his first song, it became clear that the duo were meant to play the most epic of musical genres - Viking Metal. After that time, Lucas wrote several musical pieces. All that was missing was a complete band: they still lacked another guitarist, a bassist, and a drummer.

However, the breakup of another Jersey City band called "Scorched Earth" gave new hope to Fimbulvetr. The former guitarist, Marcus Acosta, and bassist, Gideon McAdams, of Scorched Earth decided to join, making it an almost complete band. This has given Fimbulvetr new life, and with recording sessions in the near future, the band will soon be releasing material for all to enjoy.

The title of the first demo will be "Tale Of The Lost Warrior." The four tracks will be "The Gathering", "Brothers Into Battle", "Immortal", and "A Light From the West." Cara Scalcione-Hahn, the sister of Lucas, will perform clarinet on the demo. The band sees this as branching out into musical territories beyond metal, and hope that with recording sessions it will garner them more recognition.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fimbulvetr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.