There are 8 artists under this name: 

1. Fin was a black metal band from Chicago (2011-2018), Illinois with one demo out titled, Fated by Will & Iron (2011) and 3 full-legths; A Refutable Arts of the Noble Reserve (2014), The Furrows of Tradition (2015) and Arrows of a Dying Age (2017).

2. fiN - A British Indie DIY band from South West London.

The Southwest London schoolmates-turned-twenty-something guitar pop visionaries Jonny Garner, Simon Harding, Kerry Lambert and Luke Joyce, decided on leaving behind their grunge covers band roots in November 2008, utilising their childhood roots in Motown, The Beatles, Led Zep and Nirvana and channelling their creative forces for the reinvention of alt.rock. 

fiN wrote, recorded & produced their debut album themselves in a disused shelving factory in Wandsworth; true DIY and total freedom. "It started out quite heavy but we didn't want to be just a heavy band. We wanted to be a band that wasn't afraid to write pop songs as well as still have the indie-rock element." 

Mixed by Muse, Two Door Cinema Club and Foo Fighters impresario Adrian Bushby, after the band sent a track to him on a whim, they set the mark as "the heaviest indie band around." The band aren't just treading fresh paths with the sound either. 

3. A american pop band of GoDigital Records

4. An independent band formed in 1998, from Chihuahua, Mexico.
(http://www.finmx.com)

5. Fin (different artist) plays electronic music similar to Jean-Michel Jarre.

6. Fin was a band from GB in the early 90's. Their sounds like the early Radiohead with a powerful melodic style. They formed in Juni 9 1993, toured together with Tindersticks an brought out the "Headstrong" - EP which was played in the 120 Minutes at MTV. 

7. FIN (www.finonline.co.uk) is a Singer Songwriter from London, UK.  FIN artfully blends the Acoustic, Folk & Alternative Rock traditions to create a stunningly original yet familiar sound. In 2011 FIN self-released his début album “These Words Aren’t Meant For Me” through Written Records. The album was produced by Adrian Hall whose credits include (Big Deal, Alicia Keys, Robyn, The Sugababes, Longview, Sinead O’Connor, Simply Red & Slipknot) the album was Mastered by multiple Award Winner Jon Astley (The Who, Small Faces, Catatonia, George Harrison, Psychid, Ash, Jools Holland, Level 42, Abba, Sex Pistols, Tears For Fears & Led Zeppelin) 

8. "Rebecca “FIN” Simonetti is a New York multimedia artist—in one disturbing installation she hung a replica of a lamb from the ceiling with harnesses; blobby, pink, flower-shaped objects sprung from its carcass. Her music has a bit of that same horror-film ruthlessness. She approaches pop from a clinical distance, slicing it up then smiling as it staggers forward. [...]  FIN takes similar cues from performers like Björk and FKA twigs, who use arty dissonance and broken beats to heighten emotional intensity and create deeper personal expression. But FIN’s vision owes more to Kraftwerk, ferreting out the alienating, artificial clockwork at modern pop’s heart."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/FIN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.