More bands than one band uses this name:

1) Final Cut is an electronica / (US-)Coldwave-band, founded in the end of the 1980's.

The Final Cut has been an international underground electronic music enigma since emerging from the late 80's Detroit underground. Final Cut began when Anthony "Asrock" Srock, then a radio and club DJ, began collaborating with then-unknown techno DJ Jeff Mills. The pair struck gold with the international club hit "Take Me Away" just as Detroit technos first wave began to crest. But the sound was a mix of industrial, house and techno, aggressive but uplifting, and showed Asrocks roots as a DJ absorbing different genres to make the best record. Mills left for a career of minimal techno and was replaced by drummer and programmer Joseph LaFata. Asrock and LaFata took FC into a more aggressive industrial direction with "I Told You Not To Stop" in the early 90s, with Srock stepping out as frontman and vocalist. The single led to an album deal with Nettwerk Records, home to fellow industrial-and-then-some act Skinny Puppy. The resulting album, 1992s Consumed, evolved the Chicago industrial sound into a more Detroit-bred, bottom-ended sound. The album featured collaborations with Revolting Cocks/Ministry alumni Chris Connelly, Nivek Ogre (Skinny Puppy) and the late William Tucker. It also showed Asrock emerging as a seething frontman of a sound that straddled industrial, deep riffs and melodic rock. It was also, of course, way-too ahead of its time. For Consumed, FC toured with an all-live, sampler-free, full-band supporting Chris Connellys band and My Life With The Thrill Kill Kult.

Srock returned with 1995's Atonement, recorded at Chicago's Warzone Studios and first released on Chemlabs Fifth Column Records and then re-released in 1998 on Slipdisc/Mercury. With the production of Van Christie of Die Warzau and Jason McNinch of Lick, cuts like "Terminate" sharpened the hard groove FC sound with the requisite earth-mover beat under it. LaFata left and was replaced by guitarist Greg Lucas, Cr33py aka Kurt Komraus of Lick, and later guitarist TrippKILLER aka Max Edgin of 13 Mg.

In the year 2000 in Los Angeles Asrock begins working on a new full length record "Method of Operation" with Cr33py, TrippKILLER, Xristian Simon, and Taime Downe, an old pal from Pigface and frontman for sleaze rock bands Faster Pussycat and the Newlydeads. Add to that former Big Chief guitarist Phil Durr, and production from Baltimore vocalist Ric Peters and Chicago engineer Jason McNinch. Working digitally between Detroit, Chicago and Los Angeles over the course of 2005-2006, Asrock and his band piece together Method of Operation. Ten tracks of Final Cuts trademark seething ominousness.

After living for many years in Chicago and the west coast, Asrock is back where he started in Detroit. In 2005 Asrock resurrected Full Effect Records, his own label, and Final Cuts original label, immortalized by the slogan: "If it gets you erect, its Full Effect.

2) A Thrash Metal band from Seon, Switzerland formed in 2011.

3) A Noisecore band from Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Final+Cut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.