There atre two bands with this name:

1) A Classic-Power-Thrash Metal band from Canada.
2) A vietnamese Death Metal band:
 
2004 Sep, guitarist Viet Phuong (at that moment has just left Red Cross Band) has an idea of a Death metal band, playing their own stuffs. He started looking for the members for his idealic band.

At that moment, vocalist Le Minh and bassist Minh Quang (ex- Major and Minor)have met in a rock show in Hai Phong city. Death metal was their common passion. The three (Phuong, Minh, Quang)got together in a great afternoon at the Hoang Cau lake and a brand new Death metal band was borned. They called themselves Final Stage.

For the next step, drums and rhythm guitar, Viet Phuong give a call to his ex-bandmate Viet Dzung who was deeply in love with Death metal. The drums position was fulfill by Duc Anh – Drummer (Playin for the 7 days at that time).

They started with Carcass, Arch Enemy, Death, Absurd, Children of bodom, Behemoth, Judas covers. The first time they went public was at “Student’s and pupils’s Rock Festival” in Hanoi. They achived “Best break through band”

2005 Jan, Mai Phuong joined the band as female vocalist and keyboardist.

2005 March, old Duc Anh was kicked out, the new drummer was another Duc Anh (Kin).

2005 June, the band has release their first 2 compositions, Duong Ham Sieu thoat (Tunnel of salvation) and Thien than sam hoi (Angel of penitence). For the regret, at the same time Mai Phuong has quit. The band started to work with Huong Giang (National music conservatory) to replace the Mai Phuong’s position.

2006, Final Stage released their first Demo Album in Hanoi and Saigon. The album name is Vô Tội (Innocence)
Vô Tội (Innocence):
1. Duong Hầm Siêu Thoát (Tunnel of salvation)
2. Ruồng Bỏ (The Abandon)
3. Thiên Thần Sám Hối (Angel of penitence)
4. Vô Tội (Innocence)

2007 August, the band has came back after a break. They had new bassist and vocalist for the Rock Storm Hanoi show. After the show, they’ve fired the 2 new members. They’ve started to work with 2 other new members. Since then, 3 new composition was completed. The band is in great shape. The Final Stage 2007 are:

- Hoàng Lê Minh ( Vocals );
- Trần Việt Phuong ( Guitars ); Band Leader
- Phạm Việt Dzung ( Guitars );
- Phạm Khắc Duy ( Bass ); -
- Kin (Nguyễn Duc Anh) ( Drums ); <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Final+Stage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.