Having been friends for several years and gathering experience in bands like Battle Royale, 
Disrespect, Shortage and Lifeforce, for some local scenesters the time was right to bring 
the violence back to the dancefloor. And what better way to do this without getting hurt 
themselves than to form a band. They started jamming in 2003, with the aim of playing 
straight up, traditional hardcore with a progressive shape and the taste of major 
brutality.

With a few songs already written, the band welcomed a second guitarist into the fold, 
finally realising their visions of a massive sound, backed by some well structured song- 
writing and bonecrushing riffs.
The search for the perfect vocalist is never an easy one, so the band pursued an active 
rehearsal and songwriting schedule as an instrumental four-piece, whilst different vocalists 
were tried out. When Steve Conquest was spotted performing feet first dives and generally 
causing trouble at a lame emo show, they knew they had their man and thus the line-up was 
complete.

In no time the vocals were added to the five songs which were put to tape just two months 
later by Our World Records. Only 300 tapes were made and sold out in no time, while the 
band was busy playing dozens of shows all over Europe with nothing more than a demo under 
their belt. 1ST ROUND KNOCK-OUT was even rated `demo of the month´ in Germanys´ 
leading magazine for Rock and Metal music, `Rock Hard´.

The demo sparked the interest of some independent labels, which led to the release of a 
split CD with Crisis Never Ends on Punchline Productions in January of 2005. The rest of the 
year FP played shows constantly, sharing the stages with acts like Agnostic Front, Hatebreed, 
Terror, Comeback Kid, Champion, Heaven Shall Burn, Walls Of Jericho, Cataract, Sworn Enemy...

After a European tour with their buddies in Teamkiller in September 2005, the band enterd 
the famous Kohlekeller Studios, home of bands like Crematory, Under Siege, A Traitor Like Judas
or Six Reasons to Kill, to record their debut album entitled "RIGHT HERE, RIGHT NOW" for 
Let it Burn Records in January 2006.

The result is one of the most powerful and toughest records of the year. Plain, pure and 
brutal hardcore with a strong sociopolitical message, a combination, hardly known these 
days. RIGHT HERE, RIGHT NOW will erase all your doubts that a hardcore-band from Berlin 
would not be able to play in one league with Hatebreed, Terror and Throwdown.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Final+Prayer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.