Created between July and August of 2005 in the city of "Aracaju/SE", FINITUDE has been growing, since then, through a long and hard path in search of musical and artistic growth, more specifically, but not restricted to, in the form of expression known as "Heavy Metal".

The starting point of this journey was the recording of the first CD-demo, titled "Way of Wisdom", during the period of January to April of 2006. A production conceived completely independently and unexpectedly considering the short time of formation. However, this work helped to set the term "band" and the interest of remaining as a group and making good music.

Thus, was created FINITUDE 's first release, composed by five copyrighted tracks, a great graphic production and a striking concept involving assertions of psychology and strictly human doubts. Adding up, furthermore, striking "riffs" and catchy tunes setting an excellent result, attested by the many positive reviews from specialized media, as well as an excellent reception from the public.

The first official show of the band combined the launch of the CD "Way of Wisdom" and the strong presence of the public, on April 22, 2006, paving the way to follow, then, with several presentations in support of this work throughout the respective year.

In addition, during late 2006 and early 2007, the band returned to the studio and recorded a single unique to the Internet, entitled "Inside a Human's Head". This track had a positive impact and quickly became a constant song at every show. However, because of conflicts of interest, then keyboardist James Freitas left the band during the production of this "Web-single".

In February 2007, FINITUDE was invited to participate in the "Projeto Verão", a large event sponsored by the city of "Aracaju/SE", which was attended by national and regional artists. Even with a lot of adversity the band made an excellent performance, pleasing to the large audience.

During the same year, FINITUDE was invited to share the stage in a series of concerts in the Northeast with the gaucho band BURNING IN HELL. For this to happen, the band recruited the work of guitarist Icarus Reis, whose premiere took place at a concert in the city of "Lagarto/SE" that preceded the tour; his effectiveness as an official member quickly concretized itself.

This tour was extended to major cities in the northeast, including "Paulo Afonso (BA)", "Aracaju (SE)", "Maceió (AL)", "Recife (PE)", "Natal (RN)" and "Fortaleza (CE)", with great shows where the public welcomed quite warmly the music made by FINITUDE.

Undoubtedly, 2007 was a year of a lot of recognition for the band, since several were the contacts, appearances and interviews in specialized magazines, websites and newspapers. Several positive and optimistic reviews left on the CD-Demo "Way of Wisdom", in particular from the magazines: Rock Brigade, Roadie Crew, Rock Hard Valhalla and Commando Rock; Apart from the sites: Whiplash, Novo Metal, Metal Attack, All The Bangers, MetalVox, etc.

Ending 2007 with a balance more than positive, the band even opened the show of the renowned band Hangar, from the renowned drummer Aquiles Priester, at the show house "ATPN", "Aracaju/SE".

In 2008, the band started on the right foot being selected, among many others throughout Brazil, to be part of the biggest independent rock event in full carnival, the "PALCO DO ROCK" in the city of Salvador/BA. A great show for an audience estimated in the thousands and excellent organization.

In the same year the band released another promotional single, "Never See My Fall". Certainly a unique work that has come up with a different theme from the previous, but not less important. This CD-single was well received and contains three new songs that cover a phenomenological view of the world in relation to man. Furthermore, it brings a sound ranging from a quick metal, a refined ballad and a fully orchestral range, bringing the band more critical and positive reviews.

In order to create an excellent and complete material for the fans, the single also included an interactive track (CD-ROM) containing photos, text, song lyrics and a documentary video called "Making of (A film by Finitude)", which shows much of the production process of the single, interviews and live performances of the band. This video and many others can be checked in FINITUDE channel on Youtube.

Another great moment of 2008 was the opening of André Matos' show, former lead singer of the renowned band VIPER, ANGRA, SHAMAN and SYMFONIA, then in solo career, in the period of August of that year. He shared the stage with FINITUDE to perform the track "Pride" of the album "Ritual" (2002) from his former band SHAMAN (Video also available on the You Tube channel of the band).

FINITUDE has also been indicated in the second half of 2008 as a band revelation by the Dynamite Music Prize, the largest celebration of the independent scene in Brazil.

In January 2009 the band opened a show for Blaze Bayley, former lead singer of IRON MAIDEN. A great show that came to leave a marc in the history of FINITUDE with the opening to one of the great names in "heavy metal history" (Video also available on the website You Tube band). Immediately thereafter, the band made an excellent performance in the "Rua da Cultura", opening the annual season of concerts of this recognized cultural space in Sergipe. In February, the band participated again in the "Projeto Verão", sharing the stage with the irreverent singer Arnaldo Antunes.

Stamping the great job that FINITUDE has been executing in the recent years, the specialist website "All The Bangers" chose the CD "Never See My Fall" as the best CD-single of 2008 by its technical team. Another immeasurable recognition.

In June, drummer André Moreira left the band without personal and agreement issues, to follow his own path. For his post, the band recruited Arnaldo Silva, quite prepared drummer and recognized in the Sergipe music scene.

The band then stopped activities for a short period, returning to rehearsals and shows in early 2010, invited almost immediately to join the "Virada Cultural", another great event sponsored by the city of Aracaju/Sergipe, again with great impact on the local scene.

However a great career move was necessary, especially after these years of experience and interest to climb another step, so, FINITUDE focused entirely on the composition and production of the first official album, spending most of the year of 2010 concentrated in this complex, but important, process to create new songs.

The production of the album was very cautious, with production and arrangements on behalf of the band itself, accepting up of logo - as the first big decision - register it with professional studios and hometown of the band. The musical direction was in charge of Luiz Gustavo, taking care of the whole registration step and editing new compositions. In the course of 2010 and early 2011, it was recorded all instruments and performances, with some participation of local musicians recording voices (female and choirs) and playing unusual instruments to the genre adopted by the band, as percussions.

During the period from 2011 to 2013 occurred: the mixing sessions led by Alex Souza, prominent Sergipe producer in the "underground" scene; photo sessions for the booklet and dissemination; preparation of artwork in charge of Djalma Moreira, with Ezra Baptist Jesus' illustrations - also local artist - and all launching negotiation process of the CD. Altogether the album has eleven (11) tracks, with ten (10) original and a rewrite, with new guise, of the title track "Dissensio Homines", original of the first CD-demo of FINITUDE.

The CD "Dissensio Homines Pt. I" is a concept album, extending the concept started in the demo-CD "Way of Wisdom" (2006) and was officially launched in the second half of 2013 by Ms Metal Records, the label that FINITUDE closed for give wide visibility to "play" in the domestic market, in addition to "press" services (Ms Metal Press), keeping the band's name in all specialized media outlets.

In 2014 the band found themselves in the middle of the album dissemination process, starting the year with an excellent release show in the "Republica" show house on February the first with participation of bands Headd - independent - and Tchandala - also part of the "cast" of MS Metal Records -, aiming to strengthen the music scene of Sergipe, Northeast, and in greater extent, Brazil.

With the excellent reception of the album "Dissensio Homines Pt. I" by the public and specialized media, FINITUDE was once again nominated for the Dynamite Music Award 2014 in the category of best heavy metal album. The indication marking a great work that the band has been performing.

2014 was also the year of release of the first official clip of the band, as part of his album release plan. The chosen track was "Another Direction", the last track of the "play". The clip was produced by the experienced director Marcel Magalhães, accompanied by his excellent staff: Arthur Pinto (Cinematography) and Pritty Reis (Art Direction). The video was made available on the official website of Finitude on Youtube: (http://youtu.be/i4wZzf5mrLg) and since it's release it has a big hit in the social media, expecially Facebook.

2015 is a celebratory year, the band celebrates 10 years on the road and lots of music. The work should never stop, but renew, so FINITUDE is rehearsing it's new show, renewing the official site (www.finitude.com.br) and already taking the first steps to a second album.

For this celebratory year, three (3) videos (web clips) have already been released for the tracks "Choices and Wills" (https://youtu.be/fvPA0zh6jJw), "Days and Nights" (https://youtu.be/e6M2OE23BSE) e "Finitude" (https://youtu.be/6QtHXAA6SLU), all three available on the Official Youtube Channel (http://youtube.com/finitudeonline).

This year will also be marked by the departure of "Ícaro Reis", leaving the band to pursue a career in other projects and distinct sounds of heavy metal, so FINITUDE will remain a quartet, with many plans and the same love for music, without ever closing doors.

The important thing is that excellent news are on it's way, stay tuned. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Finitude">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.