MEMBERS:
The band was founded by Gabriel Wolf and Tomi Kalliola in 2001.
 
current line-up:
Gabriel Wolf - vocals, symphonic music, lyrics, cover design (2001-present)
Nola Darxley - female vocals (2006-present)
Ville Mustanen - guitar (2008-present)
Janne Lahtisaari - bass (2008-present)
Aatto Koskinen - drums (2008-present)
 
symphonic orchestra and choirs:
Gabriel Wolf
Nola Darxley
Bueckert Agota
Simonfai Eszter
Barabas Eva
Ormanecz Violetta
D. Szabo Gyorgy
Sallai Viktor
Fekete Zoltan
Lucio Davoli
Kertai Egon
 
former member:
Tomi Kalliola - guitar, synths, lyrics, drums (2001-2006)
 
guest members:
Attila Csihar (Mayhem) - vocals on Death Before Dawn & Darkness Needs Us
Domina Mystico - vocals on Death Before Dawn
Ville Sorvali (Moonsorrow) - vocals on Darkness Needs Us, lyrics on Voitettuani Kuoleman
AOD (Dagorlad) - vocals on Darkness Needs Us
Peter Meynckens (Axamenta) - vocals on Darkness Needs Us
Sture Dingsoyr (Windir) - vocals on Darkness Needs Us
Marcus Ehlin (Siebenbürgen) - vocals on Darkness Needs Us
Christopher B. Wildman (Asgaroth) - vocals on Darkness Needs Us
RMS Hreidmarr (Anorexia Nervosa) - vocals on Darkness Needs Us
Morfeus (Limbonic Art & Dimension F3H) - remix on Darkness Needs Us
Agathon (Gloomy Grim & Thy Serpent) - vocals on Voitettuani Kuoleman

BIOGRAPHY:
  The band was formed in 2001 by Gabriel Wolf (Hungary) and Tommi Kalliola (Finland). Finnugor's name came from the nationality of the founders. The word "Finnugor" actually means "Finnish-Hungarian", or rather means the "Finnugor language family" which was the base of the Hungarian and Finnish languages of nowadays.
  Finnugor is one of the most famous black metal bands in Hungary, due to many reasons. For example because during their 8 years of existence, they had not less than 26 members and guest members in the band. The reason of this fact is that Gabriel collaborates with other black metal bands and artists very often. He was always a man of surprises in this music scene, by always finding the way to refresh the band's style and members to keep it interesting and unique. Finnugor is well-known of the very varied and colourful vocals and speaking voices in their music. Gabriel uses about 20 different singing and speaking techniques, which can remind the listener of Mr.Doctor's crazy performances in Devil Doll. Not only the many types of voices make Finnugor outstanding, but also the interesting way of changing languages from album-to album. The majority of the Finnugor lyrics are written in English, but also there are songs in German, Hungarian, Finnish and Latin. For example their 4th album (Voitettuani Kuoleman) was only written in Finnish and Hungarian and their 6th album (Fame et Morte) was only written in Latin. 
  They basically play symphonic black metal music. On their first album there was still some touch of gothic/doom rock. The second album was more powerful and contained even more catchy melodies. 3rd & 4th albums were more into the folk/viking side of black metal music. The 5th Finnugor album was a big turn and surprise for the fans. They turned their style into industrial/hellektro black metal with a lot of electronic soundings. That was the biggest change in their style, so later they decided to call that a side project of Finnugor: "Finnugor 2.0". The band was always changing and evolving to keep their style unique, but they were always faithful to some things which are also main characteristics of Finnugor's music: their extremely catchy and oftenly monumental melodies which were always feeding from traditional Hungarian and Finnish folk/symphonic music. 
  Their most monumental and melodic album is their latest opus, called "Fame et Morte". The songs on this album grab the attention of the listener even for the first time. It can remind them of Dimmu Borgir's monumental songs, or Summoning's unforgettable viking/symphonic melodies... also we could mention Devil Doll, and not just because of the varied vocal styles, but the theatrical performance, too. Fame et Morte is really not an average black metal album. They use really interesting instruments in the music, also the sounding of the instruments are not usual. For example Janne Lahtisaari doesn't play the bass the typical distorted black/death metal way: he uses clean bass-runs in the music many times, and also the monumental organs sometimes turn the musical atmosphere into a demonically possessed unholy church-music. 
  Their first record label was Adipocere Records in France, then Karmageddon Media signed them to The Netherlands. Their latest label was (still is) Finsterniis Records in Hungary. Nowadays they are looking for a NEW LABEL! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Finnugor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.