FireHaze is a band integrated by three young Cubans that migrated to the city of West New York, New Jersey in the USA. They all share a common dream: to become members of a metal band, something that where to reunited their different tendencies of the genre.
      
 It all started in 2007 when Yunior arrived to the United States from La Havana, he immediately started searching for musicians to form a new band, an unreachable goal in his country. He met Carlos, a very talented guitarist born in Bayamo who had been in the United States for 9 years, and had already been playing other styles of music for some time. Yunior convinces him to start a band with a very powerful sound. By 2008 the project adopted the name “Illuminated By The Fire,” in which Yunior took charge of the vocals and the bass guitar, while Carlos the lead guitar.
  
 In mid 2009 they met Hector, another young Cuban who had recently moved from La Havana. He would become the newest member in charge of the drums. Because of the influences that Hector brought to the band, they immediately started discussing the path they thought the band should take.
The chemistry that was evident between the three the first time they jammed together was amazing, and due to the fact that they started working around a new idea they decided to change the name of the project... So FireHaze was born in a hot august night, overlooking the New York City skyline. In September of the same year they rented a studio in the heart of Union City, New Jersey.
  
 FireHaze has always keep the goal of sounding different and due to this fact since it’s beginnings the band has always included various and unusual percussion and string instruments, and most of all, has always been surrounded  with extraordinary guest musicians, who has most defenetely given shape to the sound of the band and it’s projection when playing live.
   
 FireHaze is currently preparing a new demo,  a second music video, but ultimately, their goal is to record a full length album, always with the hope of getting a record deal to be able to showcase the full potential of the band, being in the meantime doing frequent gigs all over North New Jersey and New York, preparing also to expand to other states as well.
   
 The sound of the band seems to be Melodic Death/Trash Metal with some Groove and Core hints. Mostly shaped by it’s integrants tastes in the metal scene, being influenced by band such as: Lamb Of God, Dimmu Borgir, Sepultura, Megadeath, Deicide, Children of Bodom, Pantera among other. 
  
 FireHaze, although formed in West New York, considers itself a Cuban/American band, since all of its members are proud to have been born in the Caribbean island whereas they are currently living and developing their band and their dreams in the United States of America. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Firehaze">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.