Kyiv-based FireLake band was formed in 1997 by Oleg Yavorsky (guitar), Alexey Akulshyn (guitar) and Andrey Salnikov (drums). Under the influence of the extremely popular at the time "Swedish wave", the first musical compositions of FireLake were created with a slant to classic melodic death metal. The debut performance of the band took place in spring of 1998 in the Kyiv metal bar "Grave", followed by more gigs in the city. Shortly afterward bass guitarist/vocalist Roman aka Thorn joined the band. 

In search of its own style and sound, the band tries combining Slavic folk melody elements with aggressive death metal riffs. In 1999 FireLake takes part in several Ukrainian events, including "At Voland's" and The Great Commandment, performing with such bands as Disclaimer, Te Deum, Unerase, Reflection, Camera Obscura, Egoism and more, only to firmly settle itself on the metal scene. 

The Media started talking about FireLake - "Ukraine Young" newspaper publishes an interview, and band members answer listener's questions live on air of the Radio Rocks Ukraine. In 2000 for personal reasons Alexey Akulshyn left the band, soon replaced by Ruslan Drozd (guitar). The band polished the material accumulated and prepared for the first album recording - The Temptation Journey. 

In 2005 the album of 10 tracks (best out of collected in the period of 2001-2005) was mixed and ready for release. Due to various reasons the actual release of the album happens as late as early 2007. In 2005 the band undergoes another change of lineup: Instead of the quit Andrey Salnikov and Alena Korol (backing vocals) there come to the band Dmitry Nazarenko (drums, ex-Sarcasm) and Olga Lyapina (vocals). In summer 2005 FireLake take place in the gaining momentum international festival Metal Heads Mission performing on one stage with Napalm Death, Cenotaph, Parricide and many other Russian, Ukrainian and European bands. On August 25, 2005 the band plays a set together with a known Polish band Darzamat. Instead of Thorn who quits the band there comes Sergey Dvuzhylny (bass guitar, ex-Witch Hunter), and a while later Victoria Kotenko (ex-IDOL). 

In early 2006 the renewed FireLake gets down to implement its most ambitious project: recording of a soundtrack to S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl - a computer game that became a cult project way ahead of release. In February 2006 in Moscow, broadcast by MTV Russia there takes place a prestigious game awards ceremony Gameland Award, where FireLake perform the S.T.A.L.K.E.R. soundtrack live. Subsequently, the official S.T.A.L.K.E.R. soundtrack includes three compositions by FireLake. 

In 2006 Ruslan Drozd quits the band, to be later replaced by Andrey Larionov (guitar, ex-Witch Hunter). In March 2007 FireLake together with Saints Petersburg metallers Morrah participates in the Russian-Ukrainian tour of SuidakrA to support their new album Caledonia, visiting Saints Petersburg, Moscow, Ryazan, Yaroslavl, Lugansk, Odessa, and, ultimately, Kyiv. 

In 2012, FireLake released full album called "Radioactive". Release consists of 13 tracks and themed around the tragedy of Chernobyl catastrophe and Soviet abuse of nuclear energy. Some tracks include historical recordings like famous voice of a woman on loudspeaker calling to evacuation from Pripyat, sountrack that became the symbol of Chernobyl tragedy (track Ghost City), actual recording of Pripyat siren sound (track Radioactive) and Soviet propaganda about benefits of implementing nuclear power (track Live Today). It's their first album that is available on streaming platforms like Spotify, YouTube Music etc. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Firelake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.