There are three  artists recording under the name First Born:

1. First Born is a duo from Nashville, TN. The two rappers are twin brothers and go by the aliases Blastville and Rising Sun. Their debut album Riders was released in 1999 on Totally Independent Productions (T.I.P.). Production was done by the legendary Mannie Fresh along with Keith Falgout and Brian Gardner.

2. Out of Guyana, land of many waters, on mainland South America bounded on the South by Brazil, on the east by Surinam, on the West by Venezuela and on the North by the magnificent Atlantic Ocean, FIRST BORN Guyanese by birth, Rastafarian (by choice) to their very core, this quintet delivers a strain of Reggae music that exuded, spirituality, culture, tremendous brotherly love and originality.

Originally conceived as an acapella outfit in the 1990’s, they achieved a breakthrough in 1997 with a live showcase on the Freddy Mc Gregor concert at the Guyana National park, promoted by Vizion Sounds, Walter ‘wally’ Fraser. The existing of the then line up TROY AZORE, SHAWN WILLIAMS, TRAYON GARRETT and LAMBERT SEMPLE, so impressed ‘wally’ and the late great Dennis Emmanuel Brown with their unique originality, that wally signed them to his label VIZION SOUNDS RECORDS and Dennis Brown offered his special vocals on their debut single ‘Repatriation Time’.

This track featuring prominently on their acclaimed follow up album ‘Exodus Chapter XIII Verse 2’ which was recorded at Leggo’s Studio, Kingston, Jamaica with saxophone contribution and musical direction by the magical Dean Fraser. The album gaining two Guyana National Awards for Best New Artists and Best New Group. ROLSTON RICHMOND was now welcomed to the unit and has ever since positively added to what is FIRST BORN.

3. Band featured on the soundtrack to the horror film Slumber Party Massacre II (1987). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/First+Born">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.