First Fragment was formed in September 2007 in Longueuil, Quebec, by Gabriel Brault-Pilon and Philippe Tougas. Despite the age difference between the two guitarists (Gabriel being 23 and Phil being only 15 years old at the time), the ambitious duo had a similar vision of the band as well as solid chemistry musically-wise. A couple of months later, Gabriel’s brother, David Alexandre joined the band to handle vocal duties. In August 2008, the trio started recording their first demo, even though they had no bassist or drummer. The 7-track demo was released on the internet 2 months later. Despite it’s average production, and the fact that the guitar tracks were recorded in one takes, the demo clearly displayed the band’s potential and helped them build a good reputation.

After finding Guillaume Plante (CASTIGARE) to fill in for the bass duties, the band undertook a long and laborious search for a drummer to take the project to the next level. The search didnt go anywhere unfortunately, but this did not stop the band from progressing. 

In 2009, the band entered the studio to record their first EP, The Afterthought Ecstasy with HUGUES DESLAURIERS (Vengeful, Augury, Nervous Impulse, Clearwater Deathblow) but had to part ways with Guillaume Plante. The recording process was finished in 2009 but due to several money issues and other complications, the EP’s mixing process could not be undertaken and the whole project was put on hold.

In 2010 though, the band’s patience is finally rewarded. Drummer Philippe Boucher and bassist Vincent Savary officially joins the ranks of the band. The band had now a complete line-up for the first time since it's inception in 2007.

The band’s debut EP, The Afterthought Ecstasy was released on the internet in November 2010. Drawing influences from mainly Technical, Brutal and Melodic death metal to Neoclassical metal, First Fragment’s music incorporates both Technicality and Brutality but somehow often remains melodic. First Fragment are now almost finished writing their first full-length album. To be continued… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/First+Fragment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.