Hailing from the frozen north of Canada, First Reign plays mix of melodic death metal similar to the Gothenburg 
melodeath movement, progressive power metal much like fellow countrymen Into Eternity, and technical thrash, likened to Darkane and other such bands. After playing extensive shows (highlights include shows with Canadian metal pioneers Unexpect and Anonymus, and Canadian punk legends D.O.A.) and the success of the bands first recording (a self-titled 4 song demo, well reviewed everywhere and well received in the local music scene), First Reign have finally finished putting the final touches on their newest album, titled “As the Dead Lead the Dead.” This new album sees the band dramatically expanding its sound to a much more aggressive and technical approach, best represented in tracks such as “This Ghost of Ours,” and “Where the Ocean Meets the Sky.”
The band first came together when guitarist Ryan Macdonald became tired of having no outlet for the great riffs he was writing, as he was currently playing for an Iron Maiden cover band. Soon, an old friend from school, Dallas Erickson, joined the quest for metaldom as lead vocalist. Together they sought out drummer Sean Lang, who met bassist Russ O’Shea on a local music message board. All members necessary for a band were there, but the band lacked the soaring majestic guitar harmonies it wanted, and so long-time friend Chris Holtz filled the void. This lineup has proven strong for over three years, and has earned the loyalty and respect of many music fans and musicians alike. 
One could concoct a prententious description of First Reign, but to fully understand the band, one must experience First Reign in true form: a live show consisting of hair-tornadoes, sweat, and blood. 
Metal.

Check them out at http://www.myspace.com/firstreign
And populate the boards at http://firstreign.proboards25.com/index.cgi <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/First+Reign">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.