""Firstborn"" are a band from Harpenden, Hertfordshire in the United Kingdom, playing a combination of classic rock choruses coupled with emotive modern verses.

The group was formed around 1999 by Simon Jack and Chris Mills, along with former members Nick Halliday and Phil Clarke. Halliday was soon replaced by Chris Noakes, and the band went on to release a few demo's, all were well received and helped build a good local fanbase. The band were familiar with nowadays, wasn't completed until 2003, when Neil French and Nick Taylor were aqquired from other local bands, Freefall and Oversoul respectively, following the departure of bassist Chris Noakes to study at University and the eventual sacking of drummer Phil Clarke.

The first songs written with the new lineup compiled the groups debut EP, 'The Face In The Frame' in May of 2004. The band decided not to release the effort commercially at the last minute, a decision supported by the intended label, Infernal Records and their management. However, press campaign for the EP saw the band receive numerous spotplays on The Rock Show program on BBC Radio 1, as well as favourable press from Metal Hammer, Classic Rock and Kerrang magazines. The latter even awarded the group it's 'Single Of The Week' accolade, beating off competition from established artists such as Lostprophets, Funeral For A Friend and Ash. Reviewer, Mark Greenway, stated that, "you'll wonder where Firstborn have been all your life."

2004 saw the band tour the UK twice, with Make Her Cry in May and Shouting Myke (now A Silent Film) in August, as well as numerous shows inbetween, including an o2 'Fresh Weekend' festival slot alongside Kasabian and Basement Jaxx. The touring schedule resulted in the selling out of The Face In The Frame's initial pressing, and around the same time, Kerrang magazine covered the band once more, this time in it's 'Introducing' section, which feature a whole page feature interview with Chris, in which Mills was quoted as saying, "We've been called the Nickelback of post-hardcore, that's hilarious!" In referance to a negative review the band had received around that time.

After time out to write, the group once again emerged with the limited edition single, 'A Curtain Call To Arms' in the June of 2005, and set off on tour with Chè in July, for a three week tour of the UK. The single wasn't covered much in the mainstream press, mainly due to the fact it wasn't going to be widely available. That didn't stop well respected DJ Zane Lowe playing the track on his primetime Radio 1 show though, another great achievement for a band who hadn't had a shop release.

The remainder of 2005 brought a tour with Dopamine in October, as well as a somewhat relentless gigging programme, notabley the groups support slot alongside household names such as Funeral For A Friend, The Used, Killswitch Engage and Story Of The Year on the Taste Of Chaos tour in Doncaster, before the band hibernated to commence writing their next release. A release planned for mid-2006.

In the December of 2005, a second guitarist joined the fold, Tom Jackson, who had left his previous band Aconite Thrill, due to personal differences. The band has already announced plans to tour once again with good friends Dopamine in June, and have already kicked off the year with a handful of shows, around the writing proccess. The band is currently writing their debut album, which is due next year, an EP is expected before then, however. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Firstborn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.