There are three bands called First Aid Kit:

1. Swedish indie/folk duo which consists of sisters Johanna (b. 31 October 1990) and Klara Söderberg (b. 8 January 1993) both from Enskede, Sweden. 
The sisters began composing songs in 2007, taking their name at random from an English dictionary. 
They began uploading their music to their My Space page and sending their songs to Swedish radio station, this led to live performances and offers from Record Companies.
Their debut EP "Drunken Trees" was released on the 9th of April 2008 in Sweden on the label Rabid Records, owned by the Swedish electronic duo The Knife.The EP was produced by their father and contained a collection of songs uploaded to their My Space page including You're Not Coming Home Tonight and Tangerine, a song sent to Swedish the previous year.
By 2009 the sisters were well known locally, but it was when they uploaded their version of the Fleet Foxes' song Tiger Mountain Peasant Song which caught the attention of the Fleet Foxes guitarist/vocalist Robin Pecknold and subsequently the popularity of the duo to international fame. The Drunken Trees EP was then re released not long after. 

Their debut album The Big Black And The Blue was originally issued on 1 February 2010. The album contained the first single Hard Believer and the standout I Met Up With The King, possibly still one of their greatest songs and sounding very much like Neko Case

Also in 2010, they recorded a cover version of Buff Sainte-Marie's Universal Soldier and performed in honor of Patti Smith at the Polar Music Prize singing her classic Dancing Barefoot

Their 2nd album The Lions Roar, produced by Mike Mogis from Bright Eyes, was released on 18 January 2012. On it's release, it received many favorable reviews. One of the three singles Emmylou was named Rolling Stone's 10th best song of 2012.
The album shot to #1 in the Swedish charts and top 40 in most other charts. On Billboard's rock chart it climbed as high as #17
The album contained three singles, the title track, Blue and the classic Emmylou

The duo's third album came in 2014 with the release of Stay Gold once again produced by Mike Mogis. Once again the album was received favorably. Billboard listed My Silver Lining as one of the best 10 songs of 2014, while The Huffington Post included the album on their list of 2014's best albums. Early the following year the album won "Album Of The Year" at the Swedish Grammy's (Grammis) 
On the world charts it charted extremely well, reaching #23 in the US, top 10 in some European countries and Australia. After touring for most of 2014 and 2015, they decided to stop touring and apart from playing a few festivals, they never played any concerts until mid 2017.

The duo issued a song on 10 March 2017 for "International Womans Day", You Are The Problem Here, they called it an angry song inspired by the case of Brock Turner who was giving a 6 month jail sentence after raping a drunk woman. All profits from the song were said to be donated to "Women For Women International"

On 19 January 2018, their fourth album Ruins was issued. The three singles (It's a Shame, Postcard, Fireworks) from Ruins had already been released prior to the albums release. The album had a more rough and rustic edge to it, said AllMusic while The Independent praised the sisters for the instinctive harmonies which remain sweet as ever
Folk singer songwriter Laura Veirs appears on Hem Of Her Dress along with the duo's mother and brother.

An EP featuring tracks from the Ruins sessions was released on 14 September 2018. The EP aptly titled Tender Offerings went to #1 on the UK charts.
They began the Rebel Heart tour to promote the album, which will see them visit many countries and take them deep into 2019.

ALBUMS:
The Big Black And The Blue (2010)
The Lion's Roar (2012)
Stay Gold (2014)
Ruins (2018)

EP's
Drunken Trees (2008)
America (2014)
Live From The Rebel Hearts Club (2018)
Tender Offerings (2018)


First Aid Kit Official Website





2.First Aid Kit was a five-piece post-punk band that formed in Connecticut around 2001. Band members were: Brad Amorosino (guitar), John Paul Chirdon (vocals), James Dennis (guitar), Nick Santore (bass), and Brian Pile (drums). First Aid Kit disbanded in 2004 when James moved to San Francisco.
They released all their albums on the label Said Sew Recordings, which is run by John Paul Chirdon
SAID SEW MYSPACE PAGE:
www.myspace.com/saidsew
Brad Amorosino is now in a band called TITLES.
TITLES MYSPACE PAGE:
www.myspace.com/titles

3.Spanish indie electronic band from Barcelona. Their debut album called F1rst and their latest album is called Plaits.
www.myspace.com/firstaidkitmusic <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/First+Aid+Kit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.