Five Sided Room is an Italian female-fronted gothic power/prog metal band from Napoli, ITA.

The project started in 2005, when the brothers Fabrizio Flocco and Adriano Flocco decided to found a band, with the precise purpose of compose own music. And quite soon, their school friend Mattia Casigli accepted to be the rhythm guitar player. And so, Adriano decided to be the drummer of the band, but carrying out the study of the classic guitar. For a couple of months they didn’t find other good musicians, but they started composing by the way. Fortunately, there was a childhood friend of Adriano and Fabrizio, Fulvio Petti, who was maintaining the study of classic guitar with the two brothers, but associated to the study of the bass. So… this was the first line-up of Five Sided Room! 

They immediately started to compose everything that their crazy minds thought. The first results were a kind of progressive instrumental Rock works. Just after a couple of concerts, supporting other headliner bands, the four guys thought that would be nice to add a keyboard player into the line-up! So, they started searching for another musician that would enjoy their instrumental experience… but it hasn’t been easy like they minded. The first one was a school friend of Adriano, Gerardo, but he soon left because of his quite different tastes. What a pity… he was really a natural talent. 

After a couple of months, a german guy of the same school, Nils di Bernardo, asked to be the keyboard player of Five Sided Room. He seems to be very interested, and also a skilled musician. The new mark revealed to be more interesting of the old one, the choice to insert the keyboards in the songs has been a good idea! With Nils, Five Sided Room could compose more various music, using keyboards both as rhythmic and soloist role. Compositions of the new line-up started to be heavier, becoming more “metal”. 

But after another couple of live events, another idea jumped in their minds… “Why don’t we try to find a singer?” one day the band asked themselves. Well, at the beginning they were worried, because it’s not so easy to find a valid singer, but fortunately soon Nils knew a girl, called Aurora Savinelli. She has been invited at Adriano and Fabrizio’s house, to test her abilities… everyone standed gaping hearing her beautiful voice. And so… this is another line-up of Five Sided Room! 

With the entry of Aurora in the band, new compositions started to have some Gothic features. So, the final results was a kind of Metal, with Progressive and Gothic influences. They started to write BLACK MAIDEN and RAGNAROK. Everything seemed to get better and better… but soon everybody understood that Nils was not the one who they were looking for… he didn’t care the project as necessary, and they had been obliged to drive him out. 

Since Nils left, a difficult period started for the band, because it is not so easy to find another good keyboard player. The band never stopped composing, but without making concerts. And for all the summer of 2006, with September and October too, they had no live experiences, and the band work started to decrease… until the beginning of November. Fabrizio knew a guy called Biagio in his university, a keyboard player who was lookin for a band. The fate wanted that he had a passion for progressive music, and was very expert with his instrument, expecially in the use of synth sounds. The entry of Biagio cheered the band up, seeing his incredible abilities. He learned and arranged the songs in just 2 weeks, and they could have their first live experience. New compositions started to have more progressive features. Well… again, “everything seemed to get better and better”, but just after the second concert, Biagio decided to leave, because he was looking for a more extreme progressive project, without other influences. So, here starts another difficult period for this unlucky band. Sometimes, they have thought that maybe should be better to play without keyboards, and go on with that line-up… looking for another musician meant to begin another period of inactivity. 

Just a month later, Adriano and Fabrizio went to see a concert of some their friends in a pub. That was the first time they saw them on the stage, so they were curious… also because this band had a keyboard player too. That guy, called Adriano Aponte, was really amazing… it was impressive to see his hands flowing on the keys, and was clear that he had also a very good classic piano experience. The band contacted him, to fix a meeting; they made Adriano listen to Black Maiden and Ragnarok, and… Adriano really enjoyed, and accepted to be the keyboard player of Five Sided Room! 

Adriano Aponte revealed to be the best keyboard player they have ever had! Now, because of the classical studies of Adriano and Fabrizio Flocco, Fulvio Petti and Adriano Aponte, also classical melodies were included in new compositions and, by the time, the sound became stronger and stronger, getting near Power Metal too. So, Five Sided Room is a mix of Progressive, Power and Gothic metal, with classical influences! 

The band with the new line-up rearranged perfectly BLACK MAIDEN and RAGNAROK, and started composing the song that will be named SHADE IN THE LAKE. They joined the “Pansini Rock Contest”, playing in a pub, then in a theatre, arriving at the finals in Dante Square, winning 3 prices: 1) Best vocalist 2) Best bass player 3) Best original song. Was this the end of problems? Of course… it wasn’t. With great regret, the band had to accept the renouncing of one of the founders of the project, Mattia Casigli. So, the five guys had to arrange the songs again. 

But finally, in the end of September 2007, they finished to record their aspired first demo, “THE FIFTH SIDE”, in the Orange Bug Studio, by Salvio Imparato! It include the final versions of the powerful BLACK MAIDEN, the epic RAGNAROK and the mysterious SHADE IN THE LAKE, with another track composed thanks to the classic guitar experience of Adriano, Fabrizio and Fulvio; they wanted to compose a short and instrumental song with a medieval sound… the result is INSIDE A DREAM - PART 1. 

This is the present!! Now, FIVE SIDED ROOM protected the songs by the SIAE copyright, and is making lots of new concerts, and working on other 2 songs, looking for a manager and something that can produce their songs… and “everything seem to get better and better”!

Their official myspace page: http://www.myspace.com/fivesidedroom <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Five+Sided+Room">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.