FLAMING ROW is a band-project formed by the german musician Martin Schnella (Steel Protector, Cast In Silence) in 2008. His formaly idea was creating a concept album with many different musicians, especially singers, female and male. Schnella wrote a lot of music for FLAMING ROW and put it together to complete songs. Because of his big influence of different styles of music, FLAMING ROW does not contest just one genre. So there is a mixture of Prog Metal/Rock, Mainstream, Metal and powerful ballads inside FLAMING ROW.

To complete the idea, Schnella asked his dear friend Kiri Geile (Steel Protector) to join the band. Kiri’s task was writing a story for the concept.
 Within the months both completed the story “Elinoire”, a drama about a young british family, together and wrote lyrics for different characters in the story.

The recording sessions started in late 2008. Most all of the music was recorded until the end of 2009. A lot of friends and local musicians supported Geile and Schnella by joining the band. Also to the core-team of FLAMING ROW belong Drummer Niklas Kahl (My Inner Burning, Cast In Silence) and Keyboarder/Saxophonis Marek Arnold (Toxic Smile, 7 Steps To The Green Door, Stern Combo Meissen). Schnella played Guitars, most Bass Guitars, some Keyboards and Lead- and Backingvocals..

In late 2010 he got in contact with Gary Wehrkamp and Brendt Allman from the american Progressive-Metal Band SHADOW GALLERY and asked them to join with some additional guitar/keyboard solos. Both liked the music and became a big part of FLAMING ROW within the further month. Wehrkamp also did a lot of lead vocals and took part as one of the charakters. Together with Brendt Allman he added many backing vocals. Also Billy Sherwood (Circa, Yoso, Ex-Yes) sang some lead- and backing vocals.
 The german guitar player Ali Neander (founding member of the RODGAU MONOTONES, session guitar player for Xavier Naidoo, Sabrina Setlur …) added some guitar solos, too.
 To take over the last free character-role Jimmy Keegan who is the tour drummer/backing-singer for SPOCK’S BEARD (also Kenny Loggins, Santana…) joined FLAMING ROW with some vocals.
 Schnella is very proud of this because all these musicians are his idols since his childhood.
 Thus FLAMING ROW became an international band project.

The first concept album “Elinoire” is nearly finished. It’s release is planned for summer 2011.

The Story “Elinoire”:    The story “Elinoire” is about a young british family. Lea and Adam Baltwin are at their prime of life, having great jobs and live in prosperity. Lea became pregnant. But while the birth of their doughter Elinoire, Lea died because of medical reasons. Adam never overcame the sudden death of his beloved wife and laid the blame on Elinoire. Within the years he could not build up a ordinary realationship to Elinoire. Adam’s father Cyrus Baltwin took on the role of the father figure. But after some year some true facts about the previous life of Lea were revealed. Was Lea’s dead really an accident?
 The story is told by the real charakters, their emotions (Love, Rage…) and some virtuals (Time, Destiny, Death, Spirit and so on). There are 15 different singers, female and male, performing the roles of the story. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flaming+Row">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.