There are several bands under the name Flegma:

1) A metalcore band from Prijedor, Bosnia and Herzegovina.

2) Flegma is the progressive trance project, created by two friends, Dalibor Delic and Slobodan Gacesa from Belgrade, Serbia. From the year 2003, music was there. Coming from different backgrounds, since Dalibor was producing all kinds of beats,writing melodies and arranging songs,using gadgets and synths that was availible.He began to learn about music at early age, influenced by his older brother who play bass and guitar. He grew up listening a music with a lot of different influences until the 1999 when trance music hit him so hard, that he knew it was his calling where he could express his ideas through electronic music production. In 2002 he met Slobodan... Slobodan started to play piano at the age of 10. After he learned the basics of playing piano and theory of music he continued to develop his playing abilities. After seven years of practising and musical growing up, Slobodan started to play in a pop-rock band, which turned out to be a fusion jazz band.He got into electronic music in the year 2002, and since then he wanted to bring his own ideas and melodies that today gives their music very colourful and original sound. The unity of Slobodan's keyboard skills and synthesizing combined with Dalibor's computin' sound-pictures led to the creation of this project.A mixture of bass lines,percussive sequences, soft pads and melodic synth leads characterize Flegma tunes. From party to party Flegma style was starting to be recongnised. The two are involved in a few side project such as Ectima and Tesseract. Ectima is Dalibor's side project with his friend Nikola (aka Zyce). Powerfull progressive tech-trance music combined with dark pads and eletric fx's synths.TesseracT project is the ambient-chill-out music include both Dalibor and Slobodan together with Nikola(aka Zyce) and Goran Grubic. Warm, atmospheric sounds combined with jazz melodies,brings ambient music fresh perspective and new ideas. Dalibor is a co-founder of Tesseractstudio artist organization in Serbia. Looking in the future this duo see themselves as open-minded artists performing experimenting mix of all electronic devices and acoustic instruments on stage near you.

2) Flegma was hardcore/punk band from Csepel, Budapest.

3) Flegma was punk band from Zagreb <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flegma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.