Fleshmould can be described as mainly death-metal, technical, but mixed with several subgenres to keep things interesting and daring: no boundaries. Influences varying from standard deathmetal, as well by different bands like Meshuggah, SYL, Opeth, Death and ending with standard blackmetal.
In December 1999 ReinieR (voice & guitar, ex-Yosh) forms Fleshmould, together with Bjorn Demeyer (bass) and Nick Devos (guitar). The sole uncertain factor seems to be the position of a solid and steady  drummer. Immediately the first CD “Fleshmould 2k” is recorded at DK Studio and produced by ReinieR, but drummers come and go. As a result, out of frustration the band decides to quit after their gig at the Bom'ma-fest 2000, which is only 6 months and several gigs and drummers after they'd started. 
In May 2001 the band rejoins when Roel Ghesquiere (ex-At The Front) is recruited as the new drummer. His special style has been proven to be one of the main ingredients of Fleshmould nowadays. Dirk Derdaele (guitar & voice) fills in for the spot of Nick weeks later, because Nick can no longer combine 2 bands. In October of the same year one track is recorded for a compilation in Midas Studio.  
During 2003 they recorded their first full cd in ShumCot SoundLab. An edited version of one track appears on the deathmetal.be-compilation “Face Your Underground I”, the entire full-CD “Incompatible Fragments” faces daylight in december 2003. 
2004 kicks off with an entire new vision on the future of the band, style- and sound wise. Again they recorded their stuff in ShumCot. The first attempt of these efforts “Virtual Breed” can be heard on the 2nd compilation of deathmetal.be “Face Your Underground II”. Next big thing in this year is the arrival of a frontman: Sven Houfflijn (ex-Anesthesy) joins the gang and from now on they continue as a five-piece. This is an extremely important step forward. Dirk is replaced by Davy Vanlokeren (ex-Deformity). In this line-up they record “Apocalyptus Rexx”, again recorded in ShumCot and released in May 2005. In 2006 they released a new album called "The Lazarus Breed".


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fleshmould">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.