Aggressive, brutal, and wicked. These are words that have been used to define the sound of many metal bands. Now, take those three words and group them with two more: hope and aspiration. This sounds like a strong contrast, oxymorons if you will. One can ask himself how can one group have anything to do with the other. What relationship does light have with dark? It is a balance that can be the downfall of many if not incorporated properly. One element usually overshadows the other in a battle which seemingly never ceases. In 2005, three men were on a pursuit, searching for purpose and direction in a genre which usually has none. Dominique Benninger, Jason Bolton, and Stu Kavolis, all coming off of a previous project, were in need of someone to assist them to the next level. While their three diverse and eclectic backgrounds help form the sound and direction that they had achieved, there was something missing. There was an element they were all aware of that seemed to have eluded them thus far. After much searching and auditioning they found that missing element. In stepped Joel Paine. He brought that piece for which they desperately longed for. With this addition they rounded and refined their sound. They stepped to the next level. They became the band that they are today: Fleshbane. Now, Fleshbane, the newest threat to the hardcore/metal scene in Central PA, has balanced the aforementioned elements with a tenacious exuberance and zeal that can only be matched by a select few. While their music is in your face, aggressive, brutal and wicked, their lyrics cry out with hope and aspiration. In a genre often filled with darkness Fleshbane sheds light. It is metal at its finest, lending to old and new influences yet still having a voice of it's own. Pulling from such bands as Dream Theater, Iron Maiden, Slayer, Becoming the Archetype, All That Remains, and Meshuggah they have yielded a sound that has been compared to the likes of Killswitch Engage, Hatebreed, Pantera, and Candiria. With a newly released album and a love for live shows Fleshbane is ready to display their tenacity on the metal scene. They are ready to show the world that they are a force to be reckoned with. Old and new schoolers will agree that Fleshbane has the talent and sound to propel them in the industry. Keep an eye out for them, because this is one band you will not want to miss.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fleshbane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.