Fleurety is an avant-garde metal band from Norway. The band was formed in 1991 by Svein Egil Hatlevik and Alexander Nordgaren.

The band released their first demo Black Snow in 1993. After that came the 7" EP A Darker Shade of Evil in 1994, released via the English label Aesthetic Death Records. Both of these were in a fairly traditional Norwegian black metal style, although with very high-pitched screaming vocals, giving the band a characteristic sound.

In 1995, the band released the album Min Tid Skal Komme, as a cooperation between Aesthetic Death Records and Misanthropy Records. This recording featured a progressive/psychedelic black metal style with atonal harmonics, folk music elements, and female vocals by Norwegian pop singer Marian Aas Hansen.

With 1999's mini-album Last-Minute Lies, the band moved even further away from their black metal origins. This recording and the following album was released by Supernal Music.

In 2000, Fleurety released their hitherto last effort Department Of Apocalyptic Affairs. This album showed an even more eclectic musical style, spanning metal, jazz and electronica, and featured an array of guest musicians from the intersection of the Norwegian black and avant garde metal scenes; among them Kristoffer Rygg and Tore Ylwizaker from Ulver, Hellhammer and Maniac from Mayhem, Carl-Michael Eide from Aura Noir and Ved Buens Ende, Steinar Sverd Johnsen from Arcturus, and Einar Sjursø from Beyond Dawn.

The Min Tid Skal Komme album was reissued by Candlelight Records in 2003, featuring the A Darker Shade of Evil recording and a track recorded for the 1995 Blackend compilation album, entitled "Absence".

According to blog posts on the band's MySpace page, Fleurety is working on a 7" vinyl ep, which will feature remakings of vintage material: the songs "Descent into Darkness", from the 1993 demo Black Snow, and "Absence". "Descent into Darkness" includes Hellhammer and Necrobutcher of Mayhem and Runhild Gammelsæter as guest musicians. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fleurety">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.