Flickerstick was an alternative rock band from Dallas/Ft. Worth, Texas.  The mischievous masterminds of this five-piece rock explosion have yet to experience a dull moment in their fledging music dynasty. From a young Dallas band to VH1 TV stardom with a recording deal and national radio singles, their intense touring, raucous records and constant promotion still haven't cooled their heels as the band on the run gracefully pairs sonic excitement and DIY-ethics over cigarettes and spilled beer.

Following the "Bands on the Run" VH1 series with a video for the song Smile and a pairing with Sony/Epic, Welcoming Home the Astronauts, the band's debut independent album, was re-released on Sony/Epic featuring two additional tracks in November of 2001. But, in a time when labels merge like rabbits mate, Flickerstick left Epic. They didn't want their talent, like most artists, to get lost in the crossfire of a label sale or purchase. Taking a much-needed although brief hiatus from their rampant touring schedule back in 2003-2004 Flickerstick stowed away in their native Dallas, TX, to write a darker, more rock conscious twelve song display, the LP Tarantula. But, before finishing Tarantula the boys decided to release a 6 song EP/DVD entitled To Madagascar and Back as a teaser of what was to come from the LP. The EP/DVD includes a 60-minute DVD capturing the candid reckless antics the band is famed for, the personal and witty banter revisits the first glimpses many listeners had of the gritty and hilarious moments the band encountered as they successfully starred in and won VH1s Emmy-nominated series Bands on the Run.

Reclaiming their independence after the Sony/Epic split, Flickerstick signed a deal with Dallas record label Idol Records, which helped them pick up speed in their pursuit of stardom. The much anticipated Tarantula LP was recorded and produced by Keith Cleversley (Flaming Lips, Hum) in Chicago, IL, and hit stores back in 2004.

The band's live record. “Live From Atlanta” was named as a result of a two-day, fan-invite recording weekend back in September ‘06 at Tree Sound Studios in Atlanta, GA. 150 fans joined the band each night in a live recording room at the studio, and celebrated being part of the band’s live, special taping sessions. Unlike most live records, Flickerstick didn’t want to rehash all of their “greatest hits,” so the album actually features six, brand new songs that had never been recorded before. It’s part of what makes their new album most appealing; as fans will get their newest songs in a live format. But, the album also features a special, studio track called, “Helicopter,” (Track 12 on the album, which was also released to radio as a single) along with three, enhanced videos from the recording shows in September. The three videos can be viewed on any computer, which ironically makes it more attractive to buy the album versus downloading it online or through “file sharing services.” The record was engineered by industry veteran, Shawn Grove, who has helped to produce bands such as Sevendust, Collective Soul, Edwin McCain, and many more.  The album turned out to be the band's last release.

They are most known for their song "Beautiful", which has been used as a goal song by the NHL's Buffalo Sabres.

Flickerstick announced their breakup in January 2009 via their MySpace page,  thanking their fans for years of loyalty.

On October 22, 2021, Flickerstick released When We Were Young: Singles, B-Sides & Rarities, 1997 - 2004. Around this release, the band's long-dormant Twitter and Facebook began receiving regular posts of archival content, much of it never before seen.

On November 15, 2021, the band reunited in the same room for the first time since 2005 to celebrate the re-release of Welcoming Home the Astronauts, discuss their touring years, and address rumors of a comeback with Fort Worth Magazine.

Regarding a reunion, Lea said, "Playing with them again, even just one last show would mean the world to me, and I know, thanks to social media, that a whole lot of people out there agree with me on that."

Fletcher, Weir, and Kreig expressed a willingness to consider reunion shows as well.

On January 4, 2022, it was announced on Flickerstick's Official social media posts that the band would be reuniting for one show with all 5 original band members. The reunion concert took place at the House of Blues in Dallas Texas on June 25, 2022. Due to popular demand, the band added a second performance to the reunion at the same venue on June 24, 2022.

On June 18, 2022, it was announced on the band's official Facebook page that the band would proceed past the two announced reunion shows. Brandin Lea, Rex Ewing, and Todd Harwell would be reuniting with the addition of fellow DFW musician Beau Wagener and vocalist/bass guitarist Fatima Thomas joining the band as well. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flickerstick">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.