There is more than one artist known as Flight, including a progessive rock band from Stockholm, Sweden, an Indie Rock band from Liverpool, England, a Jazz+World Music band found playing on Bondi beach, Sydney, Australia, and a popular YouTuber/rapper from West Palm Beach, Florida.

1. Flight (UK) originally grew from the band The Movement and after various personnel changes the line up is David Algeo (Guitar and Vocals), Paul F Jones (Guitars, Keyboards, Electronics), Terrence Cullen (Drums and Electronic percussion) and Bill Davies (Bass guitar and words). All band members hail from Liverpool, England. They have a dark, almost gothic sound punctuated with indie guitars and soaring electronica. They have 3 albums available plus a compilation 'Collage' (available here) on Desolation Records.

2. Flight (Sydney, Australia) are a Jazz + World Music band composed of Emanuel Lieberfreund, Ziggy Mirza, and Maurice Henler. They also play as a four or five piece with a vocalist and a bass player, as in their album Seaforth with Michael Henshaw, or Bondi Sessions with Teiwi Richards and Steve Rangihuna. 
Read more at their offical website: www.flightjazz.com

3. FLIGHT was an eclectic jazz rock band from Florida led by American musician Pat VIDAS in the late 70's. They released three albums where the first two are an exceptional mixture of jazz rock with some symphonic influences. VIDAS was the very prominent and playful lead vocalist who also played brass instruments, which made FLIGHT sound not like a regular fusion band, but more like brass rock of CHICAGO inspired by EMERSON, LAKE & PALMER or even GENTLE GIANT, so their albums can be recommended to all who love very technical but at the same time accessible music. 

4. Flight (Taylor, Mississippi) is lo-fi garage rock from USA www.myspace.com/inflighttunes flight.bandcamp.com

5. The Flight (Russia) modern hardcore / melodic hardcore https://vk.com/club24801461

6. FlightReacts (born Kimani Tariq Kamiru-White on August 7, 1995), is an American YouTube star and entertainer, who gained his popularity thank to his two channels FlightReacts and NotYourAverageFlight. He was born in Washington, DC in 1995 and moved to West Palm Beach in Florida, where he’s spent most of his life. Flight is well-known for his bright and outstanding personality, very romantic attitude to his girlfriend, entertaining and interesting sketches, nice sense of humor, while reacting to various videos from all over the internet. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.