Hailing from South East London, rapper Fliptrix has been creating a storm since 07's Force Fed Imagery. Bringing intelligent, streetwise lyrics, high-energy delivery and a myriad of original and distinctive flows. A succession of scene stealing features later, and Fliptrix has dropped an album that will set the bar for rap albums extremely high in 2010.

Working alongside some of the games most respected MC's and Producers such as Jehst, Verb T, Kashmere, Chemo, Runone, 184, Jon Phonics and more, this is a project which is sure to elevate his status to new levels. With press confirmed in RWD, ATM, Echoes, DJ Magazine, Q, Clash, & The Metro as well as well as blessing the airwaves on BBC Radio 1Xtra, Fabric Mix, Laurent Garnier's podcasts, The Block - Spin Southwest Radio (Ireland), Markus Milz's Further Infusion show (Germany) as well as guest appearances on Suspect Packages Radio, Diesel U Music Radio and more it will be hard not to notice the rising talent that is Fliptrix.
With tracks like You'll Never Change and the wordplay displayed in 'He Who Dares' it's no question Flips means business. With videos to these tunes and others already starting to create a strong online buzz. The follow up to 2007's 'Force Fed Imagery', which itself was warmly received by both the press and the Hip Hop Community, won't disappoint any true Hip Hop lover.

A story teller, wordsmith and hype entertainer Flips has graced the stage with some of Hip Hop's finest including RA the Rugged Man, Foreign beggars, Jehst, Taskforce, Phi Life Cypher, Verb T, Kashmere, Kyza, Yungun, Mr Thing, Killa Kella, Ghost, Manage, Mystro, and DJ Excalibah.

Flip's is a regular performer often touring along side Verb T & Kashmere he has represented across the whole of the UK over the years performing at various venues and clubs around London, Brighton, Bournemouth, Southampton, Ipswich, Exeter and Cardiff as well as abroad at Outlook Festival, Croatia in the Summer of 2008.

Fliptrix's rise continues with a host of shows already booked to promote the latest album 'Theory of Rhyme' and festival appearances yet to be confirmed for this summer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fliptrix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.