Tomáš Dvořák (*78) aka Floex- clarinetist, composer, producer and multimedia artist from Prague (Czech Republic). His music is characteristic by unique exploration of electroacoustic nexus and emphasis on audiovisual aspects of art. From childhood he has been learning clarinet which later becomes the key instrument for his music - not only as “instrumental signature” but also as way of his compositional approach. 

Tomáš is releasing his own music under the project name Floex while soundtrack works under his own name. 

Floex started to compose electronic music in 1996. His debut album Pocustone (2001) bridges relatively isolated genres such as nu-jazz, electronic and modern contemporary music. The album was highly critically acclaimed not only in the Czech Republic and gained several awards (Angel Award 2001 and Nomination to Europian Qwartz Awards). 

He is well known for his cooperation with Amanita Design on the soundtracks for the games Samorost 2 (2006) and Machinarium (2009). Machinarium OST gained massive reaction by both fans and critics and was selected as the best 2009 soundtrack according world’s number  game magazine - PC Gamer.

Ten years after the debut in 2011 Floex releases new album Zorya. Probably most profound album up to date is going further in exploration of acoustic music (especially classical minimalism), soundtrack music and contemporary electronic.  Album which takes as symbol Slavic night guard goddess “Zorya Polunochnaya” explores more deep, subconscious and nightly moods of music. However don’t be mistaken, this may be Floex most energetic album up to date - very adventurous, almost storytelling. Zorya received two Angel Awards (Cezch sort of Grammy Awards) in Electronic music and Alternative music category and also has been nominated to Apollo and Vinilla Awards.

In 2013 Tomáš starts cooperation with new label - Denovali Records. Home of many great artists like his allies Hidden Orchestra, Greg Haines, Poppy Ackroyd, Bersarin Quartett and Piano Interrupted.

Tomáš is also author of several unique interactive multimedia installations and performances (RGB, Crossroad, Live Score) which he created mainly in 2002-2007 while studying at Prague Academy of Visual arts. His recent work Archifon I and Archifon II is based on idea of making big interactive instruments from the buildings interiors via mapping (www.archifon.org). It was made together with Daniel Gregor and gained international succes being featured in BBC World, Forbes, Wire , Discovery Channel and more.

At the moment Floex is performing live with his band - Sára Vondrášková - vocals and keyboards, Tomáš Dvořák - electronics, clarinet and midiclarinet, Jirka Javůrek - clarinet, midiclarinet and bas clarinet,  Marián Petržela - drums!

 The selected performances includes Big Chill (Easton Castle Deer Park  / UK), Audioriver (Plock / Poland), Edinburg Jazz Festival (Edinburgh / UK), Eurosonic (Groningen / Netherlands), Babylon Club (Istanbul / Turkey), Mira Festival (Barcelona / Spain), Krake Festival (Berlin / GE), Pohoda (Trencin /SK),   Palác Akropolis (Prague / Czech Republic), Stubnitz (Rotterdam / NL).

Discography
2001 Pocustone (Quazidelict records) 
2006 Samorost II Soundtrack (Amanita Design, Quazidelict records)
2009 Machinarium Soundtrack (Amanita Design, Minority Records)
2011 Zorya (Amanita Design, Minority Records)

Contacts:
www.floex.cz     http://www.facebook.com/floex.official    http://soundcloud.com/floex


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Floex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.