There are multiple artists represented here:

1. Long-lost seventies psych-rock from an act based in New York.
Inexplicably considered (Impossible to find)
Produced By Johnny Brantley in 1970
Flood - The Rise of  - on "Maple Records"

GEORGE CABANTING ~ acoustic & electric guitars 
BILLY CARROLL ~ drums,conga 
FRED COVINO ~ bass, 2nd guitar 
JOHN T. MAGAZINO ~ vocal, conga, tambourine 

2. More crushing slo-mo heaviness from San Francisco. 

The weird thing about Flood, is that even at their heaviest, they still sound a little dreamy, a little blissed out, the sound more woozy and washed out and warm than jagged and sharp, but somehow that doesn't at all take away from their power. What it does more than anything, is add a space rocky psychedelic element, sometimes subtle, other times more overt, but always seemingly present. 

3. US band called Flood featuring Tommy Lee Flood of Banshee

Captivating, Powerful, and Emotionally Charged are just a few of the words used to describe Tommy Lee Flood's voice. To hear him sing, is to hear one of the great vocal talents in music today. Tommy is a true entertainer, which is why it's no surprise he has been voted by Bonzai Magazines readers poll "Best Front Man" for seven consecutive years. He is also featured in a number of other magazines such as: Hit Parader, Metal Edge, and the Hard Report just to mention a few. An MTV video performance with Tommy aired for six months and reached the hard 30 ranking. Tommy's song writing ability is as dynamic and unique as his singing voice. He has recorded tracks for Atlantic Records and Metal Blade, as well as many other labels and artists.

An unbreakable spirit and dedication to his music are two reasons why Tommy's charismatic personality has been greeted with enthusiasm by the music industry. On stage is where Tommy shines the most. He consistently delivers a performance that you will never forget.

3. The Producer "Flood"
4. Czech band called "Flood"
5. A drum and bass DJ called "Flood"
6. South African band "Flood" with the hit 1976-single, 'Let Me Into Your Life'
7. An Australian blues/roots band known as "The Flood"
8. A Portuguese Band called Flood:
9. Shoegaze band from UK

Portuguese Formation:
Diego Gil Fortoul (Voice)
Paulo Gama (Drums)
Rodrigo Santos (Bass)
João Diona (Guitar)
Pedro Gama (Guitar)

Discography:
Despertar (CD-UNIÃO LISBOA-1995)
ANTENA 3 AO VIVO (EP-UNIÃO LISBOA-1997)
Observador (CD-FAROL-1999)
Walk In (EP-OUTTHERE-2002)

Others:
100% - Flood Of Emotions
RUC 10 Anos sempre no ar - Amigo
RITUAL ROCK III - Bright / Slide Machine
Ao vivo na Antena 3 - Despertar / La Verguenza
Tejo Beat - Viaje Universal
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.