Fluid is the name of at least seven bands: 

1) Fluid, a noisy guitar rock band from Kyoto, Japan. http://www.fluid-kyoto.com
Not to be mistaken to Japanese folk duo from 70's, Furuido (古井戸).

2) The Fluid were an American grunge band, from Denver, CO, formed in 1984. The Fluid were originally called Madhouse, and became The Fluid upon the arrival of vocalist John Robinson. 
Their first show drew a large crowd of around 400 people, and they released their first album in 1986, "Punch N Judy". It was The Fluid live show that set them apart from many other Denver punk bands in the mid-1980's. Part MC5, part Black Flag, and part Rolling Stones, the group of 5 young men from Denver, Boulder, and Austin, Texas, appealed to nearly anyone in attendance. 

3) Fluid has been DJing for the past 20 years and has always been fascinated by the unifying power of music and the way that sound evokes people’s deepest emotions.

From running pirate radio stations in the early 90’s to DJing at events all over the country, his vision is always to allow people access to atmospheric electroacoustic frequencies that blend and cross over perfectly into experimental modern classical journeys.

This has culminated in his latest projects, Fluid Radio, a space for celebrating the beauty and diversity of chillout soundscapes with a vision to share in the creative process and spread the experience of inner exploration through musical expression and Fluid Audio, an independent record label that focuses on limited edition and varied format releases from a growing roster of artists, composers, and producers seeking to bring positive change into the world we live.

www.fluid-radio.co.uk
www.fluidaudio.co.uk

4) The Magnatune-signed band Fluid, a tuneful, sun-soaked rock and roll act.

5) FluiD, a dark ambient / industrial / hip-hop musical project formed in Chicago, Il. in 2007. It is the solo project of Christophe G. aka The Post-Human Cyborg: myth, afrofuturist, anarchist, composer, cultural-activist, deviant, multi-instrumentalist, sound-scientist and vegan. Christophe is originally from Los Angeles (Leimert Park), Ca., now living and working in Chicago, Illinois, formerly the keyboardist/bassist for Impulse, D.O.D., Wardrobe Cathedral, Immaculate Corrosion and Drug Of Choice. He also contributed synths and programming to Los Angeles based industrial/goth rock group Die My Darling. Appearing on their debut CD 'Virulent' (Trisol 2002). http://www.myspace.com/fluidemusique

6)  A German hardcore Band. www.fluidmusic.de

7) An electronic dance music production duo consisting of Sönke Prigge (later of Curfew) and Steve Line (source: http://musicmarketer.ning.com/profile/CURFEW ) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fluid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.