1) Flying Fortress is a dutch psychedelic stoner rock band.
2) Flying Fortress is a nerdcore hip-hop group from Los Angeles, CA.
3) Flying Fortress is a heavy/blues rock band from Seattle, WA.
4) Flying Fortress is a punk/metal band from Pembroke, Ontario (Canada).

1) Flying Fortress is a tightly knit four piece band from the rocking southern city of Den Bosch, The Netherlands. Covering a wide range of Rock as we know to be today, while adding their own melancholic twist that seeps it's way through the music with piercing grace. The catchy three-minute-songs that break off into spacious jams, have the ability to hold the listener in a hovering haze of sound that swells with life.
Through the inspiration of 70's rock and the post-grunge/stoner sound this eclectic band has been able to deliver the insightful intensity within the music heard... show after show. The charismatic vocalist sheds light upon the silence before the storm and of a turbulent (love)life that he has led. Now four years after the forming of this band and the search for the fitting musicians to be a part of this project the building blocks have finally been laid for a sound that defines Flying Fortress. "Ladies and gentlemen... this is your captain speaking, we are set for take off... please hold on..."

Since the age of 16 Matthijs Snijders (vocals/guitars) has been active in the ever brewing music scene down here in the "dirty" south of The Netherlands. First as the front man of the experimental space/stoner band "FreaQuest", and thereafter forming Flying Fortress in 2002. What began as an obsession to make loud experimental noise, has bloomed into unprecedented passion for music. The intensity that lies rooted deep has been left unscathed, but has been beautifully combined with melodic song lines and peaceful passages into the unknown.

The brother like friendship between Stijn Mertens (bass) and Matthijs begun way back when they were both three years of age, playing in the neighborhood sandbox trading toys and being kids. Then some twenty years later, (when they still were acting like kids) Matthijs pushed a bass guitar into his hands... his only words being "see what you can do with it". Ever since has he been the groovin' glue between the pounding drums and screeching guitars that make Flying Fortress. Stijn brings a deep and hypnotizing low end to the table that melts geniously with the complete sound of the band today. In August 2006, Stijn also played in Joris Dirks' (known from Agua de Annique) solo project. Anno 2008 he also plays in the band Mindpark.

In the year 2005 the departure of drummer Ward Snijders made way for the charismatic drumkit collector Remco Cornelissen . The musical history of Remco begins with Detsky Sad, but his success with the band Incense is what he can be most proud of. Upon the first rehearsal it was clear that this genius, skin pounding of a drummer had what it took to deal out a proper dose of energy for a solid rhythmic backbone within the band. Besides Flying Fortress, he's also hitting the drums in Drive by Wire.

For the finishing touch within the realm of guitar sound, the band turned to Maarten Jas. This nomad musician has been married to his guitar for quite some time now and has played in a fair share of different bands over the years past. The diversity of the projects he has taken part in reflects his style of play, which can be better defined as a style from A to Z (Stof, Pleasing Jill to name a few). His colorful background and dedication to the progression of playing compliment the underlying riffs in ways beyond... and gives that extra twist, that makes this band fucking rock the way it does! 

Flying Fortress released their debut album "Man-Made Noise" march 2008, as a Vinyl-Split (+ free double cd) with the band Sweet Assembler. the Album is released on SpaceJam Records and is distributed by Suburban. Flying Fortress played with bands such as: Fu Manchu, Dinosaur Jr., Hulk and Dexter Jones Circus Orchestra. Flying Fortress also rocked at the Paaspop Festival 2006.

Source: http://www.flyingfortress.nl <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flying+Fortress">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.