There at least two bands sharing the name Flying.

1) Experimental Indie band from Brooklyn, NY
2) Melodic Death Metal (sometimes tagged as Heavy Melodic Death Metal) band from Ukraine.

----
1) Flying is a collective of three translating magic words and mysterious noises into chaotically sweet and ardent performances. Howling, complex, disheveled, gentle and playful, their music is at once intimate and otherworldly, best described as new-dream-out-jazz-pop-noise-folk, invoking spirits Stevie Wonder, Sun Ra, Brigitte Fontaine, and Os Mutantes. Contemporary points of reference include Animal Collective, Maher Shalal Hash Baz, and Deerhoof.

Just-one-second-ago-broken Eggshell is Flying's debut full-length is out now on Mill Pond Records. The album was recorded at home, on beaches, in barns and fields over 6 months. Old accordions, broken pianos, buzzing guitars, thickets of drum claps mingle with harsh trills and murky creaks. Influenced by everything, Eggshell is nonetheless a search and discovery mission, a set of narratives balanced between song and sound, a testament of anxiety and hope; a dense, fantastic adventure.

Flying's second album, Faces of the Night, was released in 2008 by Menlo Park recordings.  After extensive touring, including one supporting Deerhoof, Flying is taking a break to focus on other projects.  Eben Portnoy and Sara Magenheimer live in Oakland, CA and play as Fertile Crescent, and Eliot Krinsky plays as Glass Ghost with Mike Johnson, a former contributor to Flying, in Brooklyn, NY.  

"I was pretty much blown away." – music.for-robots

"A very special album." - smother.net

"Their instrumentation and delivery suggests people who were never told or cared to learn the usual or "proper" ways of doing things…One of the most charming and original-sounding bands I've heard in a long time."
– Echoplex

"One of the most original and complex indie-rock bands to have come out this millenium…Flying is a breath of fresh air." – Aural Minority

2) Flying was formed in February, 1998. The first album “January Stars” was recorded in Kiev studio Unerase Records and was released in MC format in July, 1999 at Terroraiser Prod. Then came a wide promo-campaign in Ukrainian mass media and Flying gave more than twenty concerts in Ukraine and also Byelorussia. Common mini-tour with Gods Tower took place in March-April 1999, concerts in Kiev, Chernihiv and also appearance in Moscow Massacre Fest. In 2000 group started new songs creation. The second album “A Proud Bird” was recorded during autumn-spring 2001 Flying in (their own) home studio F-records. Audio-version of it was released in September 2001 at Metalagen Records. In period of 2001-2002 Flying gave concerts with program “A Proud Bird” in cities of Ukrain and Byelorussia. In May 2002 Flying was invited to Metalagen Fest. Later contract for re-releasing of album “A Proud Bird” in CD-format was signed with Soyuz Music. Remastering of the album was made by Yevgeniy Vinogradov (Die records). In September 2002 release appeared at “Soyuz”. Album was represented in Germany at PopCom, 2002 and in France at Midem, 2003. It received a great number of positive reviews in magazines (“M” 10/10, “Terroraiser” 9/10, “Dark City” 4/5, “Fuzz” 4/5, “Painkiller” 4/5, “Rockor” 5/5, “In Rock” 7/10). Promo-broadcasting in metal-programs on TV and radio made possible to spread music over CIS. In March 2003 in Moscow Flying shared the stage with Cradle of Filth, in October in Kiev with Rotting Christ. In winter 2004 the renewed staff of Flying started the third album recording. Recording of “The Heir of the Future” took place in Kiev studio Zaglada, and mastering of the album again was made in Yevgeniy Vinogradov studio. On the first of March 2005 album was released at Metalagen Records/Soyuz Music. Reviews and points in metalmedia and internet-editions: “Legacy” 11/15, “Metalworks” 7/10, metal-archives.com 90/100, “Legion” 10/10, “Terroraiser” 10/10, froster.org 4,5/5, In Rock 9/10. During period 1998-2005 Flying played with: Gods Tower, Apocryphal, Znich, Unerase, Conquest, Te Deum, Grenouer, Mortem, Evthanaszia, Rasta, Forest Stream, Cradle of Filth, Rotting Christ, Master, Stormhold, Disentomb, Thelema, Zvik, Submind, Hard Way, As4del, Radigost, Misanthrope Count Merciful etc. In November The Inheritance Tour 2004-2005 to support the new album “The Heir of the Future” started with concerts in Gomel, Mozyr, Mogiljov, St.-Petersburg. In December 2005 before the appointed time group broke the contract with Metalagen Records/Soyuz Music and stopped its activity for some period of time to start new work in April 2006. May 30, 2006 albums “A Proud Bird” and “The Heir of the Future” were re-released at Moon Records special for Ukraine in re-mastering version with additional multimedia section. August 12, 2006 Flying played at MHM-Fest-VII (Yevpatoria, Ukraine) together with Holy Moses, Dead Infection, Infliction, Incarnated, Thy Disease, Mad V, Balfor (RU) October-November were the end of The Inheritance Tour through Ukraine with support of about 30 Ukrainian bands, among which the brightest metal-stage representatives were Mournful Gust, Mental Demise, Tessaract, Conqest. On the 1st of November the first album “January Stars”, which wasn’t released in CD format before, was released at Moon Records in re-mastering version with additional multimedia (three concert videos). In January 2007 in many Ukrainian, Russian, US and European internet-portals Flying represented concert video-clip “False” from “The Heir of the Future” album. In may 2007 the band played as headliner at Terroraiser Fest (ua) and Dead Silence Fest (ua) with Forest Stream (ru), Fragile Art (ru), Tessaract (ua), Thelema (by), Disclaimer (ua), Authority (ua). From the middle of 2006 and till today group has been working over the new album “The Moment of Creation”. 

Discography:
MC 1999 ''January Stars'' (Terroraiser Productions)
MC 2001 "A Proud Bird" (Metal Agen/Musickness)
CD 2002 ''A Proud Bird'' (Metal Agen/Soyuz Music)
CD 2005 ''The Heir Of The Future'' (Metal Agen/Soyuz Music)
CD 2006 ''A Proud Bird'' re-released (Moon Records)
CD 2006 ''The Heir Of The Future'' re-released (Moon Records)
CD 2006 ''January Stars'' re-released (Moon Records)

Compilations:
2005 CD "Wolf Song" - "When Faith Dies" song
2006 DVD "Red Alert open air music festival - Metal Heads' Mission Stage"
2007 DVD "Monsters in Kiev" - 4 new songs, "False" (live clip) + slideshow

Current Lineup is:
Viktor Ozolin - Vocals
Maksim Nabokov - Guitars
Nikolay Paharuk - Bass
Eric Sivolapov - Drums

http://myspace.com/flyingbandofficial 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flying">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.