A short biography from blastitude.com: 

"My very first thought was that the name Flying Canyon was sort of an obvious one for a self-proclaimed "California Doom Folk" group, but then I listened to their self-titled debut, and hey, if they make albums this good they can call themselves whatever they want. There's an ad for this in the new Arthur Mag, but shit, the band should be on the cover. Who are Flying Canyon? You may have heard of Glenn Donaldson, a member of the Jewelled Antler collective. He's in the band, doing his backup vocal and instrumental magic, and his de facto arranging and production is chilling, sparse, lovely, and aeons wide, but the main singer and songwriter here is a guy named Cayce Lindner. I had never heard of him before, but man, this guy is good. I practically hear a new psychedelic folk album every week, and I can't tell you how much Lindner's tunes immediately stand out from all that. The opener "In The Reflection" booms right out of the gate with a tape-slowed Crazy Horse backbeat, joined by mellow-fuzz bass guitar, over which spooked acoustic guitar, yearning falsetto hooks, and Linder's clear and strong verses start pouring like the slowest molasses, building into a chorus that I can already sing in my sleep. The California Doom tag certainly applies to track two "Down to Summer," because it sounds a lot like the sweet eerie folk songs that (former members of California Doom perpetrators the Manson Family) Brooks Poston and Little Paul performed in the documentary film Manson (1973). And hey, there's eight more songs here, for a short and sweet running time of 35 minutes, all great-sounding moody gems that get better with every listen" 

The band was short lived, having lasted two years from its inception in 2005 - and ended in 2007 when Cayce Lindner took his life on Tuesday, February 6 at the yong age of 39. Cayce was also a member of the bay area bands Golden Hotel and Goodwill Tapes. He is survived by his wife Chela and two children Django and Taj and so many family and friends. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Flying+Canyon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.