Foals is a rock band which formed in Oxford, England in 2005.  The band consists of Yannis Philippakis (vocals, guitar), Jimmy Smith (guitar), Edwin Congreave (keyboards) and Jack Bevan (drums). The band has released seven albums: "Antidotes" (2008), "Total Life Forever" (2010), "Holy Fire" (2013), "What Went Down" (2015), "Everything Not Saved Will Be Lost, Pt. 1" (2019) , "Everything Not Saved Will Be Lost, Pt. 2" (2019), and "Life is Yours" (2022). In January 2018, it was announced that Walter Gervers (bass) was leaving the band.

The band was formed in 2005 by Philippakis and Bevan, both former members of math rock band The Edmund Fitzgerald, and Andrew Mears of Youthmovies. Mears left the band after their first single to focus on Youthmovies. In January 2018, it was announced that Walter Gervers was also leaving the band.

In early 2007, the band released the limited edition 7" singles Hummer and Mathletics, both produced by Gareth Parton. In the summer of 2007 Foals began working on their debut album in New York. It was produced by Dave Sitek of TV On The Radio, however, the band decided to mix the album themselves, stating that Sitek made the first master copy of the album sound like "it was recorded in the Grand Canyon". Yannis has stated multiple times during various interviews that Foals and Dave Sitek are on good terms, even though the copy by Sitek was rejected by the band. 

Foals released their debut album, entitled Antidotes, on 24 March 2008 in the UK and 8 April 2008 in the US. The album was a commercial success in the United Kingdom, debuting at No. 3 in the UK Albums Charts. The album was a minor success in other countries, charting in Japan, France and the Netherlands. Non-UK versions of the album include the early Parton produced singles.

In August 2009, Foals started recording their second album at Svenska Grammofon Studion in Gothenburg, Sweden. The album, Total Life Forever, has been described by the band members as sounding like "tropical prog" and "like the dream of an eagle dying". The band have described the album as being "a lot less funk" than they had originally planned. The album was produced by Luke Smith, formerly of Clor, and its title is named after an element of Ray Kurzweil's theory of singularity. The band's frontman Yannis Philippakis has professed a long time interest in futurology, with it informing numerous songs on Total Life Forever.

On 1 March 2010, the promotional single "Spanish Sahara" was first played on Zane Lowe's show Radio 1. Foals' new website was updated that night with the release of a video for the track directed by longtime collaborator Dave Ma. On 6 March, the Total Life Forever site was officially launched. Puzzles revealed images, lyrics and sound clips of songs from the album. The last clip appeared on 12 March, and resulted with a password entry for the Foals' new website. The site was opened on 13 March and presented the whole new art concept and media including samples of songs, photos and videos. Lead single "This Orient" was released on 3 May 2010. The album was finally released on 10 May 2010. "Spanish Sahara" was later released as a full physical single in September 2010, featuring an edited remix starring the strings of London Contemporary Orchestra. The album was nominated for the 2010 Mercury Prize.

http://foals.co.uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foals">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.