The band was born in 2009 from the idea of guitarist and singer Riccardo Zanasi (Zanna).  While walking outside a musical shop with Mattia Barbieri, Zanna saw a banjo in an instrument shop window and convinced his friend to start playing the fateful instrument. Zanna's classmate Nicolò Cuoghi luckily had a garage in addition to his brother's drum set.
 
The project involved their classmates Alberto Malferrari, who has played the bass since 2007 and Nicholas Vaccari, who had only one month of guitar playing experience. The group searched for a keyboard okater to give a more melodic sound to the ensemble and so they found Gabriele Sarti (in a classroom next to theirs, they didn't have to go really far :D) who had only one week of experience. 

The complete band starts working on some covers, then Malfe writes a song the text of which was written (mainly during the lessons :D) by Zanna and Barbi. The first FMJ's song was called Full Of Beer Rivers and talks about a man who travels a lot to find the well of desires in order to transform all the rivers of the earth into beer. Meanwhile the band keeps working on the covers and it starts going out with 2 lives at the old games pub in Formigine, on the last of which they win the first contest. In the early 2011 Vacca was replaced at the guitar by Malfe and Jeff takes his place at the bass. Later Malfe leaves the band and Marcello Andreotti wields the guitar for a pair of months until he leaves for time problems. In August, after a careful research, the actual guitarist WaxWolf (his nickname is "lupo"="wolf" and his surname is "di cera"="of wax") joins the band. On 2011\11 the group starts recording the first demo "Our War Has Begun". Since May 2012, Zanna passed only to the lead vocals and jeff replaced him at the rythim guitar while Malfe has retaken the place of band's bassist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Folk+Metal+Jacket">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.