Folkvang is a black metal band from Belarus. Folkvang ("field of the host") is the dwelling of the goddess Freyja, in Norse mythology. She received half of those slain in battle.

Folkvang began in 2003 with two self-released demos "Folkvang" and "Black Wind". The following year, in 2004, Folkvang's first full length album "World of Wisdom" was recorded, and later released by Ancient Nation Productions in 2006. Another full length album, "On the Wings of Destiny", was recorded in 2005 and released by Ancient Nation in 2007. In 2008 Folkvang released a split album, "Over the Bindings of the Waves", with Wodensthrone of England; also under Ancient Nation Productions. 

Until this point in time Wind was the only contributing member of Folkvang; playing all guitars, bass and keys as well as performing vocals and programming digital percussion. In 2009 Folkvang released "Firmament Eclipse", a split CD & vinyl LP with Pagan Hellfire. This was the first release to feature Incarnatus of Pagan Hellfire on drums. Folkvang also released a full length with this new line-up in 2009, "Atmospheric Black" on Winter Sunset Records. In July 2011 Folkvang released "Six Stories Without Keys". This new full length album was recorded in 2010 and released in 2011 by Winter Sunset Records and Cold Northern Blood.

A previously unreleased version of "The Day of Ragnarok" was contributed to Cold Northern Blood's "Cold Black Metal" Compilation in 2012. Also in 2012 Folkvang appeared on "Voices From Valhallah", a 2CD tribute to Bathory, with a cover of the song "Dies Irae". 

Folkvang is almost finished with recording and artwork for a new full length album, due for release in Summer of 2013 by Cold Northern Blood. The fifth studio album by Wind of Belarus will again feature Incarnatus of Canada’s Pagan Hellfire on drums.

This album will be released on CD, as well as limited edition LP and pro-cassette. Cds will include full colour booklet. 12” Vinyl LP will include insert and full colour artwork. Cassettes will be professionally manufactured, with full colour sleeves and include Folkvang pin.

Fans can also expect to see new Folkvang T-Shirts and Patches available with the new album’s release, as well as some other promotions. See Folkvang and Cold Northern Blood’s websites in the coming weeks for more information, previews of artwork, and promotional tracks.

http://www.coldnorthernblood.com
http://www.folkvang.of.by <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Folkvang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.