Food For Animals is a band formed in the surrounding areas of Washington, D.C.. The group features Vulture Voltaire (Andrew Field-Pickering), Ricky Rabbit (Nick Rivetti), Dr. Dan (Daniel Helmer), and HY (Sterling Warren). Their music is generally categorized as indie hip hop and subcategorized as noise music. The current albums feature a sound that is generally appreciated best by "those with a high tolerance for serial grime and a taste for the sharper, harder edge of hip-hop"

Field Pickering, a local DJ, came across Ricky's beats and immediately knew that this was the sound he wanted for his own unique rhyming style. The two soon met up, and an immediate connection was made, mostly for the two's unique sense of justice and public activism. Immediately through both of their connections in their respective links in the music industry, producing and DJing, they were able to book many gigs on the East Coast. The duo faced many adversities, playing at nearly empty venues, but soon their effort was rewarded. Rave reviews started to pour in and very early on they began to be compared to the legendaries within the group of Public Enemy. The Hip hop critics were able to appreciate their new sound and formations, because it was verging from the standard and making new waves and territories within the sometimes cloistered genre of Hip hop.

Sometime later they joined up with Daniel. Daniel who expertly plays the electric guitar was used to further expand their audience, and give them perhaps an even more edgier sound. Warren, finally giving the band a little more credibility within the Hip Hop Community, is known for his more developed rapping skills, and his natural ability to connect with a crowd.

They released their first album "Scavengers" in 2004 on Muckamuck Produce/Upper Class and their second album "Belly" in 2007 on HOSS/Cockrockdisco. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Food+For+Animals">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.