Footprints In The Custard or "Footprints" for short are a straight up, balls to the wall hard rock/metal band from Crewe, England. No one-note breakdowns, no insane technical masturbation, no whining lyrics about bad relationships, no concern about image - just straight up riffs, solos, drum fills, mad bass lines, catchy hooks, and a sense of humour. As a good friend of the band put it, "it's like the Clash meets Napalm Death".

Footprints were formed from the remains of vocalist   Russell Gregory   and Guitarist Kyle Mcsweeny  's old band, All Greased Up in the later dates of August 2006. The two band members decided to move on and create something that completely "took the piss". The result of this movement produced the song 'Wank' and laid the foundations of what the newly formed band were to build upon.

After recording a few demos, second voalist and former All Greased Up vocalist,   Jake Madeley   was brought in to add depth and bass to the demos with his slightly more growly tone. A few demos down the line produced the hit 'On The Internet' and it was with this that Footprints decided to take things a step further.

After a while searching second guitarist   Ian Fraser  was brought in to add thrashier sounds to the songs and funk bassist   Matthew Evans   was employed to bring a slightly different sound to the music produced. It was then that a drummer was needed.

However after a few practices it became apparent that guitarist Ian Fraser had the perfect mind for the drums that were to fit the songs and was often jamming them out himself.

Ian Fraser was switched to drums and rhythm guitarist   Matthew Whitworth   (or 'Goddamnit Whitty') joined to form a finally complete band.

The band's first gig in January 2007 met great reception and the band offended a good deal of people, building up the reputation they have today. More practising was done and more songs written, however the band was to change once more with the leave of Jake Madeley rendering Russell Gregory as the single vocalist in Footprints.

Several months on and the band built a great fanbase and reputation in the local scene. They worked hard to build upon their style and the work they produced came fairly easy to them with the members bonding so well in writing sessions.

Footprints finished recording their debut album "Oh God,It's Warm" in 2007 which can be downloaded for free off last.fm.

Footprints went on hiatus around the beginning of 2008 due to various members going to university. Russ and Kyle moved on to form Progressive Punk Metal band Beneath The Mansion.

In 2010 Footprints returned to the studio to record their second album 'Every Hole Is a Goal'. Ian Fraser switched to bass guitar and programmed the drums for the record.

Upon completion, released in October 2011, Kyle Mcsweeny left Footprints to pursue other musical routes, with bands such as Cojko Dial, Phalligajtor and Vandal Hearts.

Having enlisted guitarist   Ross Vickers   and drummer   Thomas Walker   the band went back into practice and began gigging again in November 2011.

With the release of their Christmas single, 'When Santa Spaffed In My Stocking', in December 2011, the band addressed the various issues that surround encouraging a fat, bearded man empty the contents of his sack around your children.

The critically acclaimed video for 'Every STD In The Book' was released in March 2012, being voted video of the month by Rock On Promotions and recieving broadcasting by July on SKY channel Propeller on their MetalTuune program.

In the spring of 2012, Footprints In The Custard embarked on Preston's first Metal 2 The Masses competition, vying for a position at Bloodstock Open Air 2012. However, it was in this time the band parted ways with drummer Thomas Walker due to an injury involving some severed fingers and a deckchair. He was replaced by New Deity drummer    Paul Linsley  , who initially came onboard to fulfill the bands touring obligations - occasionally  joined on keyboards and drums by Sam Buchanan of the Bathroom Crooners and Model Sister.

The band progressed through to the final of the competition, playing with Sa-Da-Ko, Deathtrip and Fire In The Empire, headlining the evening with bouts of whipped cream and womens lingerie. Unfortunately, Footprints did not gain the position at Bloodstock, being defeated by a blistering set by Sa-Da-Ko.

The band left the night with fire in their eyes, beer in the belly and the determination to compete again the following year, vowing to win the covetous position. During the nights celebrations, Paul Linsley decided to join Footprints permanently paving the way for the bands future...

Watch this space!

Official Site: http://footprintsinthecustard.bandcamp.com
Official Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/user/OfficialFitC
Official Facebook: www.facebook.com/footprintsinthecustardband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Footprints+in+the+Custard">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.