"Of all the weird scum-hunch folk ensembles I've heard over the last few years, Foot Village may be the most chaotic. Created and staffed by members of some LA underground heavies, this is a rather masterful effort, even when things are a little more controlled." - WIRE

Until now, Foot Village has worked in the genre of fantasy. Their first three albums constituted a trilogy, telling the abstract story of the first city formed after the apocalypse. The city rose. The city reached glory. The city fought wars. The city crumbled. Now Foot Village has returned from this world of fantasy to our own. Both in the form of a warning and hope. As always, their message travels on the sound of a horde of drums (in fact, there are four drummers in the band); their voices chanting cryptic riddles too catchy to ignore. Known as Citizen’s Kinsman, Lee, Taylor-Fantastic, and Rowan, now joined by Citizen Loveridge (of Beak>, Fairhorns) as well. While their last album, ‘Anti-Magic’, maintained an almost constant ballistic level of energy to tell it’s story of war, ‘Make Memories’ finds the group working in the form of ballads, alongside their kraut-punk roots. Foot Village’s messages of hope are as exciting and ecstatic as ever, but their warnings are a swamp, slowly being brought to a boil. Recorded and mastered by Rik Dowding at Portishead’s studio in Bristol, UK, Foot Village’s fourth album ‘Make Memories’, captures the power of their live show unlike any of their releases previous. Rich with a cool, dark atmosphere, while still maintaining an upfront and powerful presence. This is the album for those wanting to take home the strength and magic the band has displayed playing at fests like All Tomorrows Parties, touring all over the US and EU, and opening for bands like Avey Tare, Dan Deacon, and HEALTH.

"Best discovery [of ATP] Foot Village" - Guardian UK

"proof that an all-percussion band need not be a one trick pony, and
that the constraints of Foot Village's instrumentation are in fact a
springboard for variety" - Altered Zones

"wholly unhinged and chaotically great" 8/10 - Vice Magazine

The group hurls themselves so devoutly into every second that their
urgency becomes contagious." - Pitchfork

“Of all the weird scum-hunch folk ensembles I’ve heard over the last
few years, Foot Village may be the most chaotic. Created and staffed
by members of some LA underground heavies, this is a rather masterful
effort, even when things are a little more controlled.” - Wire

"amongst all the depravity are solid senses of cultural response, DIY
ethos and massively catchy songs." - Dazed and Confused

"While it’s true, the band’s peers such as No Age and Health have brought attention to the Los Angeles scene, groups like Foot Village maintain it." - CMJ
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foot+Village">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.