For Many Reasons was created in 2007, through David’s (The Seven Gates, Torsoleptus, ex Decent, ex Destinity) compositions, but time was missing, and this project stay away from the light.
After David quit one of his band, 2009, For Many Reasons aka FMR, came back to life. 13 original tunes been written, influenced with bands like Hypocrisy, Opeth or Edge Of Sanity, with design and meanings from horror and fantastic univers, as the hellraiser’s seria, or most of clive’s barker work, give to FMR a heavy, dark and also esthetical atmosphere.
With a fresh line up, 2010 announce the first show: Support Hypocrisy. This is the perfect occasion to reveal FMR’s music and skills. Band is full with experimented musician, as Ded (Torsoleptus, ex Destinity, ex Coche Bomba), Dedy’s studio owner, handle the guitar, Candy (Benighted) take care of the bass guitar, Flo ( ex Mind Ripper, ex Decent) outstanding drummer, able to do the most incredible parts, David, is in charge for guitar and vocals. All together, gathered with friendship, deeply involved in FMR, are ready to kick the stage.
Regarding the amazing welcome, from the audience, band goes on for the first album in 2011. Recording, mixing and mastering took place, with the collaboration of Jacob Hansen, old time friend with David, who will appear as vocal guest over one tune, on the top of making sound it heavy like hell. Artwork artist, Evil Campbell (Arkhan, Uncolored Whishes, Torosoleptus…), and photographer, Mori Gena (Wedingoth, Spelunca, Metallian…), will help FMR to creat his personnal and unique visual direction and identity, matching perfectly to the music of “Time To P(l)ay”.
2012, the label Great Dane records (Dylath Leen, No Return, 7th Nemesis,…) give birth to a new collaboration. They believe in FMR’s music, and so “Time To P(l)ay” get a real distribution throughout France, Benelux and England. Review for the album are pretty amazing and pointed FMR as a real quality band. Fall 2012, FMR reach the studio once again, ready to record the brand new opus: Make Your Own, schedule for early 2013. This time, the mixing and mastering will be handle by the legendary Dan Swanö (Edge of Sanity, Nightingale,…). It will contain 8 songs, including Anneke Van Giersbergen as a really special guest, and Dan Swanö his-self. With this new record, FMR is ready to start hiting the road. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/For+many+reasons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.