For Her Icon was founded in the summer of 2006, when Mikko, Iiro and Niko (=Setä/Uncle) decided to start playing together.
The first idea was to play alternative punk/indie, by taking influences from such bands as AFI and My Chemical Romance. Iiro and Setä started to write songs, but somehow they all sounded pretty hardcore.
So it was pretty obvious that indie was not an option for us. From that moment on, we've been calling our music "metalcore".

In autumn we started to look for new members to play guitar and bass in our band. We tried to play with a few guys, but no team spirit was build up between us. We decided to call Riku (=Rixa), who was Setä's and Iiro's old band friend.
First he wasn't intrested at all, but after thinking for a few days he decided to give it a try.
At the same time, Sakari contacted Mikko and expressed his interest for Mikko to join the band.
First the idea of three guitarists felt stupid, but after laughing at the idea for a while it started to sound good.
So now there was Mikko, Iiro, Setä, Sakke and Rixa in the band. But still we were missing a bassist.
Rixa called his old classmate Kimmo (=Kipi) and asked if he would like to play bass in the band. Kimmo didn't have any other bands so he was in the moment we asked.

Now the only thing we needed was a name. The idea of the logo showing a praying girl was introduced by Mikko and Iiro and the name was supposed to accomplish the logo.
Iiro came up with the name "For Her Icon" when he was walking home at one rainy evening. He introduced his idea to the other guys in the band. Everybody thought the idea was great, so we wrote the name next to our logo and since then we started to play with the name For Her Icon.

After writing and playing a few songs we decided to record three of them and start to play gigs after that.
So we went to the Palmgren studio, and asked Joona Kukkola (mors principium est) to record the songs.
We spent a couple of weeks in the studio.
At 24.2.2007 For Her Icon played the first gig as support of Maj Karma.

After For Her Icon's few gigs Mikko, Iiro, Setä and Sakari noticed that Rixa didn't have interests into the band anymore as much as we hoped.
So the only conclusion was that Rixa wouldn't be part of the band any longer. We made that desicion together with Rixa. There are no hard feelings and no regrets.
Kimmo also left 'cause of his finnish military services. They both will play their last gig with For Her Icon on the 13th of April in Annis.
Now we are looking for a new bassist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/For+Her+Icon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.