For Ruin was formed in 2003 when Murphy began playing a mixture of melodic black/death metal with strong harmonies, melodies and dynamics throughout. During 1998-2006, he recorded 3 demos (Split, Shade and Obsidian) and established an initial lineup of the band at the end of 2005, playing with Decapitated and many others at the time. 

In November 2006 Murphy was joined by drummer Barry English, guitarist Drew Myers and bassist Barry OSullivan forming the second lineup of the band. The band filmed their performance at Winterfest 2006 in their home town of Cork on December 23rd '06. The result is the "Live at Winterfest" DVD, which was given a limited release in January 2007. 

For Ruin announced the start of their relationship with Sentinel Records in January 07. The band finished their debut recording for Sentinel in May '07 titled "December" which was released on September 15th 2007 and supported by a headlining Irish tour during October 07. During August 07 the band returned to gigging, playing a warm-up show with Napalm Death before their tour in support of the album. FR played with Massacre and Extreme Noise Terror around this time and bass player Peter Lawlor joined the band just before the band played main support to Primordial in December 07 & Jan 08. In Feb '08 the band welcomed back original drummer Steve O'Connell and having spent a few months rehearsing with Steve, the band played London for the first time; at the Camden Underworld in May 08 with Skyforger. 

In January 2009 the band recorded their second album "Last Light". It was recorded in Cork, Ireland with Alwyn Walker of Komodo Studios as the on-location co-producer. The album is currently being mixed. The band recently played with Paradise Lost and Rotting Christ in Belfast in April 2009. Last Light should be out later in 2009 and will be followed by UK, Irl and EU dates. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/For+Ruin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.