From Finland
The first idea of For My Pain... was born during the autumn 1999, when Altti Veteläinen (EToS) and Petri Sankala (EToS) were planning on forming a new gothic-style band. The guys thought over suitable members into the band and decided to ask if their old friends Tuomas Holopainen (Nightwish) and Lauri Tuohimaa (Embraze/Maple Cross/Charon) would be interested in this kind of idea. Both became interested in the project but unfortunately everybody was still too busy with their own bands and the idea of the new project was decided to be postponed into the future.

A couple of years later Altti and Petri started to warm the band idea up again. This time the timing was right, because Eternal Tears of Sorrow was on a break and also Nightwish was planning to have a small pause due to Tarja's studies in Germany. The band was still lacking of another guitar player and a singer, so the ex-Eternal Tears of Sorrow dude Olli-Pekka Törrö and Juha Kylmänen from Reflexion were asked to join the band.

The guys started to compose and rehearse material for the first album and finally they were ready to enter the studio in spring 2001. The debut album "Fallen" was recorded by Ahti Kortelainen in Tico-Tico studio, which is one of the most famous and the best known metal studios in Finland. The mixing of the album took place in January 2002 in Finnvox studios by Mikko Karmila and the final touch was given by Mika Jussila at Finnvox mastering studios. This powerful trio managed to create heavy, but at the same time very atmospheric soundscape into the album.

The whole package was finished by wonderful artwork by Travis Smith. The cover artwork differs from ordinary Goth album covers by its refreshing color scheme and the overall icy look.

The "Fallen" album contains ten tracks of gothic / atmospheric metal, which exude dark melancholy veiled in beautiful and catchy melody lines. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/For+My+Pain...">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.