FORCES UNITED: INTERNATIONAL HEAVY PROJECT CONCEIVED IN RUSSIA

International rock projects are quite numerous in the Internet Age. So it may seem strange that the concept of such a project was alien to Russian rock musicians until the very last moment. Everything changed at the beginning of 2013, when famous Moscow rock musician and producer Kirill Nemolyaev decided to record a Power Metal single together with multi-instrumentalists Konstantin Seleznev (Фактор Страха, Trizna) and Sergei “ID” Bogolubskiy (СЛОТ) and vocalist supreme Maxim Samosvat (ex-Эпидемия , ex- Mechanical Poet). But in the process of creative work guys wrote enough material for two EP’s, and the project’s style transformed from straight Power Metal to something more diverse. A year ago, May 2013, it was decided to turn this project, now called Forces United, into international one.

Forces United is a true creative laboratory where most the interesting, varied and even quite insane ideas from the best Russian rock musicians are realized. The project’s name says it all: it’s the union of creative forces of talented and enormously gifted people. Forces United is quite the rarity among international rock projects, because this project combines Power Metal, Hardcore, Modern Metal and even Djent. For such a combination, Forces United needs the true over-the-top vocalist team — today it’s Jarkko Ahola, frontman of Finnish band Teräsbetoni, and Daria “Nookie” Stavrovich (СЛОТ). Jukka Koskimäki recorded drums, while the rest of the Forces United debut EP was recorded, mixed and mastered at numerous studios in Moscow and Finland.

Debut eponymous 7-track Forces United EP will be released by Moscow independent label Metalism Records on May 31st, 2014. The EP presents a perfect collection of songs ranging from radio-oriented mainstream Power Metal to strong piano ballads and even unbelievable Nu Metal. Initial press is limited to 100 copies only, and this press will have outstanding design: 8-panel slipcased digipak with 3D cover, and pit art on CD itself.

At the moment members of Forces United are working on project’s second EP, which is planned for Autumn 2014 release. The project’s line-up now includes arranger and multi-instrumentalist Sergei Erokhin (Бони Нем), Russian top Metal vocalist Vladimir Bazhin (Тяжелый День, GAiN), Arida Vortex singer Andrew Lobashev, To/Die/For frontman Jape Perätalo and vocal virtuoso John West (ex-Royal Hunt, Artension).

So let Forces United be with you!

Forces United on the Web:
https://vk.com/forcesunited
https://www.facebook.com/ForcesUtd
http://www.nem.ru

Content © 2014 Vsevolod Baronin <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forces+United">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.