"This band could be the New Kids On The Block of heavy fucking metal. They are posers. The good kind of posers, that is. Throwing their guitars around like battle axes, kicking you right in the balls with galloping thrash drums, screaming their hearts out - with a smile.

What do you get when you lock up a drum teacher, the son of a jazz guitarist, a ladies' man disguised as a princess with a sweet butt reminscent of J Lo, an audio engineer, and a bass player in a recording studio the size of a toilet? Right, metal. With a capital M, as in "melodic", "melancholic", or "mindblowing". Now everybody knows that metal - as much as we all love it - ain't exactly the most creative, innovative, or even exciting style of music on the face of this planet. Can you imagine talking your girlfriend into going to a Slayer show with you? Which lady wants to see chubby balding men in their mid forties in tight leather pants, screaming about Satan and decapitating naked women? But take your sweetheart to a Forever Ends Tonight Show, and she will be yours. (If she goes to see Slayer with you, hold on to her, too. She must be very special then.)

Seriously, these five dudes ain't fucking around. On a sidenote, two of them even have long hair. For real. Sure, Forever Ends Tonight have shared stages with the likes of Darkest Hour, Walls Of Jericho, or Bleeding Through, but does that mean anything if the music sucks? Nah. Forever Ends Tonight have three distinctive qualities about them: one, they work harder than anyone else. Two, they deliver one hell of a live show. Three, and that's the most important thing, they know how to write great songs. Everyone can do the chugga-chugga thing, spice it up with a melodic lead, and then scream some more. Forever Ends Tonight go way beyond that. Their debut album "Wayfarers" is the thrashing smashing head-bashing evidence."  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forever+Ends+Tonight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.