Foretold can refer to either of the following:

1. A Dutch death metal band, here is a biography taken from their website:

Foretold was founded in 1999 by Kim Sloothaak (drums), Harrie van Erp (guitars) and Mathijs Ansems (bass). We went through several name changes before settling as In Gods Hell at first. We rehearsed in a stable somewhere in the dutch outback, writing own material.

We went through a serie of singers, but nothing worked out premanently. In 2001 Ron Vermunt did join in as an extra guitar player. By then Mathijs' attention had shifted from the band's music to kartracing and -repairing, and he left the band.

Soon Stijn Bogers, a former bandmate of both Kim and Harrie, replaced him on bass. Unfortunately, this still didn't turn out to be a solid line up, because Ron Vermunt left the band due to lack of time. Stijn switched to guitars, making the band Harrie and Stijn on guitars and Kim on drums. The bass position was filled in by a computer generated bass called Fritz. (Metal endo-skeleton, covered by living tissue).

We then decided to alter the band name to Altered States, named after a classic cult movie. In summer 2002 we recorded a four song demoCD called 'Return to Zero', in Harrie's home studio Freezing Factory. Vocals were filled in by Stijn and Harrie. The demo wasn't very widespread but got some positive reactions.

A new milestone in the band's history was the arrival of Marco Vermeegen on bass in late 2002. The band kept on rehearsing all through the year of 2003, until in early 2004 the line-up was finally completed as we found a vocalist in William Nijhof. After some discussion we decided we should change the band name once again, to Foretold. At last, the definite line-up is now:

William Nijhof- vocals
Harrie van Erp- Guitar
Stijn Bogers- Guitar
Marco Vermeegen- Bass
Bart van Mierlo- Drums

We're planning on recording a new three song demo CD very soon, again in the Freezing Factory, followed by some live shows.

2. A Zimbabwe born 20 year old rap artist currently working out of Chapel Hill, North Carolina. His given name Mutuarwa actually means he who was foretold, which was his great grandfather's name, who was a very famous revolutionary in Zimbabwe.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foretold">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.