Biography:

Serbian heavy metal band Forever Storm was established in the end of 2006, but pretensions for its creation existed from 2003, when Milos Miletic (rhythm and solo guitar) and Stefan Kovacevic (rhythm and solo guitar, vocals) first met. After some time, Vladimir Nestorovic (bass guitar) joined the band, and this lineup recorded demo tape “Sign of Thunder”. 
Finally, the lineup was completed with Vuk Stefanovic (drums) joining the band, so Forever Storm started practicing in the beginning of 2007. In the same year, band had played on some of the biggest festivals in Serbia, like Exit, Zajecarska Gitarijada, Rock On and Rock Village, and toured across the whole country. In the middle of the year 2008 band participated on the international contest in Crvenka and won the first prize by the choice of some of Yugoslav most famous musicians, such as Dado Topic (Time), Bruno Langer (Atomsko Skloniste), Djordje David (Generacija 5), Dean Clea Brkic (Osmi Putnik). The album is finally completed after long nine months in the studio (September 2007 – October 2008).

Biografija:

Srpski heavy metal bend Forever Storm je nastao krajem 2006.godine, ali su pretenzije za njegovo stvaranje postojale jos od 2003., kada su se Milos Miletić (ritam i solo gitara) i Stefan Kovačević (ritam i solo gitara, vokali) upoznali. Posle nekog vremena im se pridružuje Vladimir Nestorović (bas gitara), i ova postava snima demo “Sign of Thunder”. 
Konačno, postava je kompletirana Vukom Stefanovićem (bubnjevi), tako da je Forever Storm počeo da vežba početkom 2007.godine. Iste godine, bend svira na nekim od najvećih festivala u Srbiji, kao što su Exit, Zaječarska Gitarijada, Rock On, i Rock Village, kao i u mnogim gradovima širom zemlje. Sredinom 2008., bend je učestvovao na internacionalnom takmičenju mladih bendova u Crvenki, i osvojio prvu nagradu po izboru žirija koji su činili neki od najpoznatijih jugoslovenskih muzičara, kao što su Dado Topić (Time), Bruno Langer (Atomsko Sklonište), Đorđe David (Generacija 5), Dean Clea Brkić (Osmi Putnik). Svoj album, Forever Storm je završio nakon dugih 9 meseci provedenih u studiju.



Members:
Stefan Kovačević - Vocals & Guitars
Miloš Miletić - Guitars 
Vladimir Nestorović - Bass
Vuk Stefanović - Drums 
Nikola Marić - Keyboards


Genre: Heavy Metal

Hometown: Kragujevac, Serbia

Record Label: One Records

Official Website: http://www.foreverstorm.com

Official Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Forever-Storm/46975427910?ref=ts

Official Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/foreverstorm <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forever+Storm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.