There are multiple artists with this name:
 
1) Black Metal band from Russia.
2) Psychedelic folk rock band from the UK.
3) A Doujinshi Circle from Japan.
4) A Hip-Hop artist from the USA.
5) Black Metal band from the Czech Republic.
6) Alternative rock band from Cambridge, UK.
7) Black Metal band from Poland
8) Folk band from Israel

1) Forest was a russian black metal band founded in 1994 as the project of Kaldrad (Branikald) and Dagorath (Rundagor).

In 2019 Kaldrad Branislav was killed after being struck by a car.

The concept of Forest was born after Kaldrad and Dagorath’s journey into the old woods where the long forgotten sacrificial places, forest temples and burial mounds of ancient Slavs were situated. The unique atmosphere of these haunted woods, the ghosts of the past channeled the inspiration into the hearts and minds of Forest creators and right after the return from this journey, in the Autumn of 1994 the debut demo of Forest was composed and recorded in an intuitive and spontaneous way. It had a very strange sound and 2 of 4 songs were not Black Metal, but some weird folk-like ambient compositions on guitars.

It was recorded only for close allies, and was never widely spread, although one track from this rehearsal called “Winter Howl” is included unchanged in the 1996 self-titled demo, and another song called “Like A Shade Upon This Land” was also included but in a re-recorded form.

In 2000 Forest was renamed to Varglodr.
In 2005, the name changed back to Forest and another album was released.

2) Forest was a British psychedelic folk rock band, active from 1968 to 1970.
Forest was a late 60’s minstrel/medieval type of folk-prog trio in the style of The Incredible String Band, Fairport Convention and Dr. Strangely Strange. Originally called The Foresters Of Walesby the band abreviated their name to Forest and were fortunate enough to meet John Peel at alocal gig and he encouraged them to play in London. After a triumphant gig in Notting Hill’s All Saints Hall at Christmastime 1968, Forest were offered amanagement deal with Blackhill Enterprises, home to amongst others, Pink Floyd and Roy Harper. It wasn’t long before offers of record contracts came their way and the band eventually signed to EMI’s nascent Harvest label. They released a couple of albums with dark but subtle acid lyrics, incorporating pipes, harmonium, harpsichord, mandolin, 12-string guitar and percussion to their sound. Their music doesn’t have the electricity normally associated with rock, yet it can’t be described as straight folk either, the lyrics being rather strange and the band’s approach being far too eclectic.

3) Forest is a Japanese Doujin Circle.

4) Forest is a Hip-Hop artist from Burlington, Vermont (USA).

5) Forest is a Czech Black Metal band.

6) Forest is a British self-dubbed 'wash rock' band from Cambridge, United Kingdom.
http://forestband.bandcamp.com/

8) Forest is a folk band from Israel (http://forestlive.bandcamp.com/releases) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.