Forever Will Burn. A  force of five young men driven by perfection, dedication and undying passion. This integration of rapidly advancing talent was born in September 2005, and quickly made a name for themselves through utterly glorious yet hard-hitting and triumphantly heavy tracks.

This band refuses to reduce themselves to the confines of one of the many genres and sub genres there are today. Instead, Forever Will Burn will tell you that what drives them to perform this very unequalled sound is themselves. The band is influenced by diversity, a web of  various music, using the combination of death metal and its haunting vocal styles, blast beats and guitar harmonies along with the likes of melodic metalcore and its intricate and technically styled melodies, Black Metal and its pronounced high pitched screams aswell as utilizing elements of Thrash Metal, Hardcore and even Classical music.

This band has done nothing but climb the ladder to the heavy, metal gates of true musicianship in the last 2 years. Forever will burn kicked off their dynamic career by touring nationwide, playing to overwhelmed crowds in venues all over South Africa. After undergoing various member changes, Forever Will Burn never took a step backward, instead, soaring forward and improving at every turn. The band has evolved into an unbreakable bond of which all members have intense experience in playing music, with well known bands on their resume, including playing huge shows with well-acclaimed and highly admired international acts such as Sepultura, Konkhra, Entombed, Soulfly, Most Precious Blood and Betzefer.

Forever Will Burn has headlined and played a vast amount of South Africa's biggest festivals such as Woodstock, Witchfest, Noise Fest and Knife Fight . The band began to capture the undistracted attention of music lovers nationwide and quickly their unparalleled individuality and quality built up a solid fanbase. The band's sole intention was to continue impressing others as well as themselves and to capture the not so heavy hearts of listeners worldwide.

With a generous number of national tours, shows and festivals under their belt, the band decided to concentrate on the writing and recording of their much anticipated debut album along with their record label, Witchdoctor Records. After spending months preparing, perfecting and perplexing themselves, they went into studio with nothing but excitement and confidence in the knowledge that if anything, they had challenged themselves at the task of writing and playing music that they wernt able to play before, and so, a new, much more stubborn ambition had manifested.

After being in close contact with various internationally idolised bands overseas, Ken Susi, Guitarist for the band Unearth, Derek Kerswell, Drummer for the band Seemless and their immensly talented producer, Peter Rutcho were to take on the task of producing, mixing and mastering Forever Will Burn's debut album. After much careful planning and months of after-hours dedication and, finally, completement, Forever Will Burn's self titled album became. The band themed their album on the day after the end of the world, imposing a strong vibe by its moody yet epic sound, compelling and poetic lyrics and tragically beautiful illustrated artwork. The album has gained enormous press and has been described as South Africa's best Metal album to be released. A recent review read "If the Artwork doesn’t inspire you, then the songs certainly will. Crushing guitar lines interpolated with melodic leads and screeching solos, thunderous drums, low death growls mixed with shrill-screams and a driving bass sound all make up the sonic cocktail that is Forever Will Burn. The album is an absolute treat – moving from conventional to innovative and heavy to melodic, this CD really is what I would term an emotional thrill ride.." 
"The really great thing about this album is the sheer originality of each song which allows Forever Will Burn to tear away from the other bands which share the metal genre" another review read.

After an incomparably successful album launch which featured an aggressively supportive crowd, bodypainted promotional girls, and numerous promotional gifts, givaways and copious amounts of album and merchandise sales, fans went home not nearly satisfied, requesting more shows and applauding the band's larger than life stage performance. 

As 2007 came crashing in, Forever Will Burn began planning their new ventures wanting more, playing more and envisioning a larger, bigger year for the band. Before too much had been done Forever Will Burn were handed the opportunity to tour Europe as legendary Sepultura's main support. Quickly the band made plans both and embarked upon a journey most bands could only dream of. Making South African history, travelling through snow and cold in the dead of winter in and out of almost every European country, this band only became closer, more focused and more hungry. Forever Will Burn played to crowds between 2000 and 5000 people almost every single night, displaying their home countries flag proudly on stage. Forever Will Burn continued to compell audiences across Europe, also playing at Metal Mania 07’ Festival in Poland, the largest festival in Eastern Europe with the likes of iconic bands such as Testament, My Dying Bride, Vital Remains and Paradise Lost.

With all this incredibility behind them, Forever Will Burn arn't stopping now, they will continue to force their way through the music industry only striving for more and bettering themselves. With opinions of the most hardened reviewers being in their favour, they can only promise to impress listeners further. "This technical brutality of speed and breakdowns is most satisfying and shoots Forever Will Burn into a league few bands from their country will ever reach" states a respectable music reviewer. This bands love for music is clearly shown in the way they live, breathe and produce music. They have set their sights to go as far as they could possibly go and nothing is going to hold them back. This path to real music credibility is clearly this band's religion.





 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forever+Will+Burn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.