There are multiple bands using the name FORESEEN.

1. Foreseen is a Hardcore/crossover thrash band from Helsinki Finland, formed in 2009. The band has released 7"Ep in 2010 and a 7" split w/ Upright in January 2011. Structural Oppression 7" came out in early 2013. First Foreseen LP "Helsinki Savagery" is coming out in 2014.

Following several successful EPs, including 2013's well received Structural Oppression, Finland's FORESEEN HKI now break into the international metal scene with their debut LP, Helsinki Savagery. An explosive burst of raw crossover, the band effortlessly fuse the 1980s iterations of US thrash and hardcore to create a merciless album of absolute jawbreakers. A distinctly Finnish rawness and hostility, that's been a hallmark of the countries incredible hardcore punk bands since the early '80s, pervades the LP. Bringing back a concrete toughness to thrash that's largely been missing for years, on Helsinki Savagery, FORESEEN HKI takes their place among the elite of modern crossover bands. Tracks like "Death Injection", "Bonded By United Blood" and "Both Sides Lose" are infused with a lethal urgency and unrestrained devotion to crafting ideal songs for wild, anarchic live shows. 

Helsinki Savagery documents a band in its hungry, formative prime where the extreme aggression heard on many classic debut albums is captured with terrible certainty. With high speeds and fierce leads that shred, United Forces are back from the dead. Diehard circle pit-dwellers who live by the lessons taught by S.O.D, Nuclear Assault, Integrity, Vio-lence, Cro-Mags, Leeway and Carnivore, your favorite new band is here.

FFO Violation, Take Offense, Nuclear Assault, Slayer, Metallica. Head Bang.

they were still active and doing live shows now.

http://greenmenacerecords.bigcartel.com/ Go pick up both their records.
http://fi-fi.facebook.com/Foreseen
http://foreseen.bandcamp.com/


2. Appearing from out of Pensacola, FL and formed in 1995, the band climbed into the 1997 global progressive metal scene with their debut album, "Prophet's Dream". After their debut performance at the Powermad Festival in Baltimore, MD, Foreseen made enough of an impact to acheive distribution out of Germany. This led to being included in such prestigious magazines as Heavy Oder Was and Friday 13th Zine, as well as compilation CD's. After being asked by KMI Entertainment and Steve Woodham, Foreseen recorded, "Shadows Fall" for the "Powerquest: The Awakening" compilation. The band established themselves again with their sophomore release, "Soulless Age". This album allowed the band to experiment and change their sound slightly with more orchestration and more technicality in their song structures. Each song is a culmination of talents from Gavin Meagher, Gary Humphrey, Michael Lukers and Joe Hammond. The band has just completed work on their latest self-titled album.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foreseen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.