bandcamp facebook 
Location: Modesto, California
Genre: technical death metal blackened death metal
Label: Obscure
Contact: Ricky Cantu-(619)757-8690 Joe Salazar(209)681-3653

Band
Joe Salazar- Vocals
Ricky Cantu - Guitars
Justin Villa - Guitars-
Andres Cervantes- Bass
Roel Guajardo - Drums

BIO
Forever Obscured  is a blackened deathmetal band hailing out of central California. With plans to spread our brand of metal to the masses Forever Obscured is working hard to build up an arsenal of brutal songs for you to jump in the pit to. Founded by Rick(guitars) n Justin(guitars) who established a full line up in Dec 2010-Roel(drums), Joe(vocals), Andy(bass).

After the setlist was writen and a fistful of brutal shows Andy decides to step down from his duties on bass to focus on family. Leaving room for Roger to step in to the band as the new bass player.

June 2011 new official lineup Ricky Cantu - Guitars Justin Villa - Guitars Joe Salazar - Vocals Roger Guajardo -Bass Roel Guajardo - Drums.

With this new lineup Forever Obscured continues to write material with plans to release a full length record in the near future. There are alot of shows on the horizon for us with some of our favorite natiional and underground acts from all over< so keep checking in on us to see what we got in the works.

We are strong believers in supporting and expanding our scene, so if you are a band, promotor, label, management or venue feel free to promote on our page and well do what we can to spread the word. All we ask is that you do the same for us, for a united scene is a strong scene! so keep it brutal, horns up and we hope to see you at the next show or even share the stage... till then!

Aug 2012 the return of Andres Cervantes


Backgrounds:

Joe Salazar (VOX) - Former member of And All Was Lost Guitarist/Vocals. Current Bassist for Decomposition. Joe Salazar. Equipment: AAWL: Mesa Boogie , Basson Cabs, Ibanez &Ltd Guitars. Decomp: Ibanez & whatever he can get his hands on. Forever Obscured: Senhiezer Micraphone.

Ricky Cantu (GUITARS) - former member of Sarcophagus and Differential. Equipment : mesa Boogie dual rectifier. Schecter hellraiser and Ibanez V. 

Justin Villa (GUITARS)- Worked with members of the Venting Machine. Equipment: peavy 5150 . Custom Ironbird, Weston v.

Andres Cervantes (BASS) - Depths of obscurity "unknown"
Equipment: Fretless Bass 

Roel Guajardo (DRUMS) - Former Member of Chainsawdomy, Differential, William Wallace, Encite The Riot, Despondency. Equipment: Tama Drums w/ Pearl Rack, Axis Pedals Classic Black w/ ekits, zilddjian ,sabian, and paistie cymbals. Aleisis dm5 drum module.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forever+Obscured">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.