FOREVER IN TERROR was formed in 2003 in Streetsboro, Ohio.

In 2004 after several small local shows the band's new wave of American heavy metal style caught the attention of promotion/management company Hardcore Marketing, Inc.. HM asked the band to play the top venue in Cleveland, the Odeon Concert Club. The band opened for some of the biggest national names in metal including Machine Head, Unearth, Trivium, God Forbid, All That Remains, DevilDriver, Meshuggah, Mushroomhead and Chimaira.

In July 2005 Forever in Terror recorded its first demo with Hardcore Marketing's in-house producer Don Debiase and engineer Brandon Youngs at Track Six Recording. Hardcore Marketing head Neil Sheehan shopped the band to labels, and they signed with Metal Blade in January 2006.

The band toured for two years to support their Freshman release "Restless in the Tides". Performing in 45 of 50 US States and also Canada. They toured with Iwrestledabearonce, Vital Remains, Monstrosity, Beneath the Sky, Last Chance to Reason,Aesthetic, Look What I Did, and Hell Within.

In April 2007 the band performed at the "New England Metal and Hardcore Festival" with Black Dahlia Murder,The Red Chord,Unearth,Job For A Cowboy,and more!

A music video for there single "The Chosen One" that premiered April.7 on MTV2's Headbangers Ball. The video was produced and filmed by Frankie Nasso of Nova Entertainment (Emmure,All That Remains,My Bitter End,and more)

At the end of their last tour in summer 2008 the band parted ways Metal Blade Records. They returned home to regroup and start writing their Sophomore release "The End".

Josh Owen (Bass) and Nate Marti (Guitar) parted ways with the band, which added new members and changed its sound up slightly. They immediately began working on their new release. Added to the lineup was Mike Wartko (keys), Ben Kantura (Guitar), and Chad Lundgren (Bass). Shortly after the band also parted ways with Hardcore Marketing.

"The End" was Tracked in Buffalo,NY @ DWS Studio's with Mike Hatalak (It Dies Today) and released June 15,2009 worldwide. The band then embarked out on there first ever Headlining Tour "Brutalitour" of the US. They toured 16 dates headlining with support from Widow Eternity.
The band then went out on a 3 week tour with BENEATH THE SKY (Victory Records) with dates spanning all up the East Coast and also into Canada.

As of November 2010, the band began working on pre-production for its third "SELF TITLED ALBUM" which is due out late Summer 2011. This album is gearing more towards the true heavy roots and is being produced and recorded at VIBE STUDIO's in Mantua,OH with Johnny Burke (Beneath The Sky,Castle Greyskull,Modern Day Escape,Driver Side Impact and more) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forever+in+Terror">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.