Voted "Best Group" and winners of "Best single" at the Lyric Pad Hip hop awards 2005, Foreign Beggars for London are a 4 man crew comprising of rappers Orifice Vulgatron and Metropolis, Dj NoNames and Producer Dag Nabbit. 

The Badman Riddim (Jump) Songfacts reports that Orifice Vulgatron and Dag Nabbit met in Dubai and after making drum and bass for a time they switched to hip hop. DJ Nonames met Metropolis at university in 2000 and the duo joined hip hop and funk band Focused Few and began throwing warehouse parties and touring. Vulgatron was introduced to Nonames through Dj Gizroc, then part of the Mixologists Crew, and by late 2002 the quartet had started performing and recording alongside beatboxer Shlomo. The band released their first album, Asylum Speakers on November 27, 2003. Shlomo subsequently moved on and started doing his own thing with the Beatbox Orchestra and by 2011 Dagnabbit had taken a backseat and was concentrating on the crew's business side.

The crew have released a slew of 12"s and Ep's and really made their mark after independently releasing their critically acclaimed, debut LP 'Asylum Speakers'. Foreign Beggars have collaborated and toured with the cream of UK's Hip Hop movement, with Shlomo appearing on Björk's album Medulla and NoNames having done cuts for Damon Albarn's Gorillaz project. With forthcoming projects with Dj Sparo, Dj Vadim, Dudley Perkins, WildChild (Lootpack), OH NO, Dj IQ, Dj Mentat, Scratch Perverts, and Euphrates, the crew see no boundaries with diversifying their sound.

Foreign Beggars are also renowned for their explosive live performances, which recently saw them tear down Glastonbury, Fabric and Hip Hop Kemp in Hradec Kralove. They have supported Public Enemy, Roots Manuva, Beatnuts, Masta Ace, Grand Master Flash, Talib Kweli, Wu-Tang Clan, Asian Dub Foundation, Last Emperor, Mark Ronson, Ja Rule, Blak Twang, and many more.

www.foreignbeggars.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foreign+Beggars">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.