Forgotten Future is the alias of platinum-album electronic music & film composer –sound designer Julius Dobos. The psybient, epic ambient electronic music project was launched with the release of the album W1 in 2015, inviting audiences to a musical journey that is everything but usual, both in its sound and in its concept.

Born in Budapest, Hungary, Dobos has been playing the piano since age 5 and composing since age 9. His interest in electronic music was sparked by the evolution of ambient and space music in Europe, which later influenced his sonic approach to music composition as he was designing sounds and testing synthesizers for Roland Corp. in his early twenties. After his albums and original film scores brought him both critical acclaim and popular success in Central Europe, Dobos relocated to the United States in 2000.

Dobos spent two decades in the television and film industries as an award-winning composer, synthesist and producer, becoming known for his work on movies such as Don't Mess with the Zohan, MallCop, the DragonBall Z series, NCIS and countless other programs. Between 1998 and 2010 he released seven electronic and electro-orchestral albums on various labels, including the platinum-selling Connecting Images, the epic Mountain Flying and the stylistically diverse Transitions.

Dobos' desire to return to his pure electronic music roots grew, along with his frustration about the film music industry's lack of desire for originality. In 2009 the alias Forgotten Future was born, with the goal to separate Dobos' two identities: the old one as a for-hire film composer, and the new one as the electronic music producer with passion for emotionally captivating psybient music and unique, multi-layered sonic environments.

Forgotten Future produces psybient and ambient electronic music that evokes deep emotions & memories with strong, haunting melodies, cutting-edge sound design, complex fragmented rhythms, and manifests unique moods through intricate and often epic instrumentation, processed field recordings and rich, evolving organic textures. In 2015 the concept album W1 was released under the Creative Shop Music label, followed by 2016's Realignment EP.

Forgotten Future's concepts are related to some of the most intriguing questions of human existence; time, space, origin, forms of life, the multiverse, parallel realities and white holes. The music clearly revealing its composer's European roots and the influence of Nature, Julius Dobos / Forgotten Future lives and produces in the San Francisco Bay Area.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forgotten+Future">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.