Forgotten Kingdom is a Swedish heavy/power metal band that was formed during the cold winter of -99 and was named Thunder.

It was Weiden, the guitarist, who first came up with the idea. He and four more guys wanted to start the best rock band of all times.

Mangan, who had play played the drums for a while bought a new drumset. The accoustic guitarist Hölm was forced to begin to play bass guitar. Weiden, Eke and Ilar played the electric guitars but after a while the band realized that they didn´t need three guitarists so Eke was kicked. The band played old hardrock covers, mostly Ozzy Osbourne and Iron Maiden. But they also wrote their own music and lyrics.

In 2000 it was time for the bands first live performance at the yearly summer festival, the gig was ok. Now the band was old enough to play at the local youthcenter which became their studio. And at that time they Changed name to Dreamland because there was already a band called Thunder. Hölm didn´t want to sing anymore so the band found a new talent, the guitarist and vocalist Tim. So now they had three guitarists again, this time Ilar had to go.

In 2001 the band discovered power metal, they listened to bands like Blind guardian, Rhapsody and Freedom call and soon realized that this was the music they wanted to play. 

And through the years they played some gigs and wrote some songs and drank a lot of beer. Hölm who played bass had to switch to synth, because they realized that they wanted to play more melodic songs. 

 But they had a problem, they didn't
have anyone on the bass. So they 
hired Knot, a bass player from a local 
band called Ocularus Infernum.
He did a few gigs with Dreamland
but had to leave because he hadn´t 
enough time for two bands.


 

In 2003 they changed name to Forgotten Kingdom and found a new bass player he´s name was Thomas Soneson. They also found a very good female vocalist who´s name was Matilda. So Tim didn´t sing anymore he just played guitar. Thats the lineup they have today.

 
Lineup 2003-2005: 

Matilda Jansson - vocals
Tim Nedergård - Guitar
Johan Weidenstolpe - Guitar
Magnus Weidenstolpe - Drums
Tomas Sonesson - Bass
Mattias Holm - Synth

The band begun to see brigther sides of life. They had their ass full of gigs and was always rehearsing to a gig. Forgotten Kingdom was from now on a name, aband. Then the breaking news came: Matilda was about to leave the band. The guys was speachless, and they didin´t have a lead singer anymore. To survive the shocking news Forgotten Kingdom took a brake over the summer. Then they was was up to find a new lead singer. Tim had to take the microphone again. The band wrote some new stuff and finaly there first demo was recorded. 

Lineup 2006: 

Magnus Weidenstolpe - Drums
Johan Weidenstolpe - Guitar, backing vocals
Tim Nedergård - Guitar, vocals
Tomas Sonesson - Bass, backing vocals
Mattias Holm - Synth <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forgotten+Kingdom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.