Combining elements of hardcore, melodic death metal, thrash, death and extreme metal with introspective lyrics and concepts, FORGOTTEN TEARS is the choice for a very large audience of metal fans today.

Hailing from north of Italy (Milan), FORGOTTEN TEARS originally formed in 2005 with a four-man core – singer/guitarist Faust Quaggia, guitarist Paolo ‘Allu’ Beretta, bassist Andrea ‘Gio’ Giovannoni and drummer Matteo Torres. Faust and Matteo had already been playing together for years in different projects, the same goes for Allu and Gio.

When they started together to give birth to FORGOTTEN TEARS they set very strict targets to hit: write awesome music and make as many gigs as possible. They immediately focused on live shows performances, getting the best of themselves every time and gaining a very positive feedback from the audience and the medias.

In 2008 FORGOTTEN TEARS recorded a four-track promo cd at DB Studios, produced by the very appreciated Ettore Rigotti (Disarmonia Mundi, Slowmotion Apocalypse, Stigma, Destrage and many others).

After the recording sessions, the band realized that the presence of a new member was needed: Faust Quaggia wanted to devote himself only to vocals in order to improve the rhythmic guitar parts, too. The new guitarist, Simone Laruccia, joined the band giving the whole line up inspiration for new riffs and sounds. After working hard for one year writing new songs all together, Simone left the band leaving his place to Paolo De Maria, who helped the band with incredible force, touring around for more than a year.

The current line up took place in early 2011, when FORGOTTEN TEARS finally found its shape with Alessandro La Porta, amazing guitarist fueled by true motivation and tecnique.

In February 2011 Forgotten Tears joins the TO REACT RECORDS family and is ready to release the debut album “Words To End”.

Debut Album:

During 2010 the band recorded the first full length album, called “Words To End”. WTE is a 11-track opus that drives the listener through many different music influences, extreme and brutal parts, catchy riffs, technical solos, neckbreaking breakdowns and downtempos, passing through introspective and emotional parts as well. Fans of Unearth, Parkway Drive, Killswitch Engage, Darkest Hour, August Burns Red, In Flames, Soilwork, At The Gates (and many other bands of the modern melo-death & metalcore scene) will simply love it. “Words To End” wisely combines the best of the Modern European Death Metal scene and the newest American hardcore/metalcore/deathcore wave, it will be highly appreciated by both extreme metal fans and melodic metal fans, thanks also to its particular multifaceted influences.

Live Experience:

Over the years, FORGOTTEN TEARS played countless live shows, improving the stage-play day by day. Even without a record deal or a released album yet, they already shared the stage with ALL SHALL PERISH,BLEEDING THROUGH, ABORTED, ROTTEN SOUND, MISERY INDEX, BLEED FROM WITHIN and many other bands.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forgotten+Tears">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.