There are 3 bands with the name forlorn hope

1. An atmospheric death metal band from the south of France
http://www.forlorn-hope.fr
http://www.myspace.com/forlornhopemusic


2. Forlorn Hope was formed in the year 2003 as the first band from Kandy to herald Black Metal, the band comprised of only three members at the inception and they were Buddhika (Lyrics/Vocals),TPKR (Drums), Darshan (Guitar) these members had a strong affinity for old school black metal created by the likes of Bathory, Gorgoroth, Mayhem, Enthroned, Burzum and Emperor. Buddhikas lyrics varied from topics such as Sadism, Religious or political opression and Misanthropy.. 

Forlorn Hope was able to aquire Dias as the permanent bassist of the band and Banuka as the second guitarist from the kandyan metal act "Carcass Slaven", Mositha took up the keyboards soon after and finally the band was complete and it consisted of a stable line up.. After several streneous practice sessions the band was able to compose 3 tracks and three intrumentals which were later featured in the bands Debut Ep release titled "Wilted" which was released in 2004 and limited to only 500 copies which were sold out in less than a month... The band was able to set up a name for themselves in their locality with the aid of several consecutive concerts in Kandy... 

Mositha and Banuka left the band in 2005 due to personal reasons and the band focused on a more extreme form of black metal with the minimal use of key boards and this is when "Kodda" joined the band after quitting "Plague Imprisoned", the band continued to compose new music and play at various concerts in Kandy,.. Kodda decided to take some time off after going through a hectic recording schedule and the band was in hiatus for a couple of months... It was then that the band got the oppurtunity to feature one of thier singles in the KAM heavy metal Compilation (USA) in 2006 and on the other hand the band was also invited to do a split EP with Indonesian Black metal act Kilowon which was later abandoned. 

Darshan decided to take sime time off from the band in order to persue his studies and the band started to look for a new guitarist, Forlorn Hope soon encountered Mackay a fellow kandyan who previously played in "Heirachy", the band continued to rehearse with Buddhika, TPKR, Dias and Mackay and soon they were able to compose more new material which is currently being recorded for the second EP titled "Lurid Remains" which is most likely to see a late August 2007 release date. 

A track titled Congregate : One Fist of fire from the upcoming ep was released on the 4th of Febraury 2007 and it recieved much attention both locally and internationally and the track peaked at number 19 on the Offical Soundclick.com Death/Black Metal charts out of nearly 12,000 songs, following the sucess of the track congregate the band released another track titled "Blessed are the Helpless" on 5 May 2007 and this track was premiered on the local rock music portal ROCK.LK. 

Forlorn Hope is recording 3 new tracks for "Lurid Remains" and the band is most likely to record two more tracks by the end of May in the mean time the recording line up consists of Buddhika (Vocals), TPKR (Drums) Mackay (Guitars / Bass) whilst Dias is set to take part in the recording very shortly, Pinto of the band "Siblings Of Hatred" recently joined the band as the second guitarist. 


3) 5 Guys, 1 mission.............. Bring the least of these to the front seat! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forlorn+Hope">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.