"
In 2001, Francisco and João Costa, both guitar players, met in the internet and started a band, that they named Formaldehyde. Shortly after, André (bass), Nuno (vocals) and João (drums) joined in and the band finally began rehearsing.

Only two rehearsals after, the drummer left and the band had to look for a new drummer. Rita, a young girl drummer showed up and took the vacant place.

This line-up went well through two years, until João (the guitar player) and Rita left the band for personal reasons. This brings us to 2003, and led the band in finding a new guitar player (also named João) and a new drummer (Sérgio) both qualified elements if compared to the former ones.

Until 2005, this line-up played some live shows and started composing music for our first record. Unfortunately, in 2005 Nuno (vocals) and João (guitar) left and started a band of their own, which (once again) led us on a demand for new members.

João (guitar) and António (vocals), both of them long time friends, joined the ranks and we kept rehearsing. Soon after, António left due to lack of free time and once again we had to look for a new vocalist. Ricardo, a young promising singer, showed up and in a month or so, he had his stage debut.

With this formation, we finally recorded a demo, DaimonKinesis, with 4 tracks (Speech of Sand, Dark Notice, Spinal Shivers and Waiting for a Sign), that never saw daylight, and played a lot of live shows, while composing songs for what would become our full length album, "Gods Will".

Already during the recording process of "Gods Will", Ricardo left the band to solve some personal issues and a new yet experienced singer was drafted: Paulo Gonçalves, an old friend and stage partner, showed his interest and we gladly took him. Paulo re-recorded all the voice tracks and we are now looking for shows, after finishing the recording of our album, yet to be released. See you soon!

We'd like to express our gratitude towards people we like to see as "our team":
- Cristophe, for his tremendous work on our logo;
- Andrea for her gigantic work on the website since the beginning.
- Paulão, for the great work he did recording our album.

To all of you, thanks SO very much!
" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Formaldehyde">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.