Seeded by Lorgar, the progenitor, the dark entity Forneus awoke in 2004. Shortly afterwards this first incarnation gave out its birth cry, a recording named “The Summoning Of The Fifth Lord”. With this recording Lorgar took the first steps along the path of Forneus, channelling the darkness within.

Years passed, with Lorgar seeing nothing but hypocrisy, ignorance and a willingness of the populace to accept any path the corrupt powers that rule lead them down. Fuelled by hatred Lorgar began forging the entity that whispered in his thoughts into a potent weapon, one that he could wield against the planet and its decaying society as a whole. Yet he realised this burden could not be borne alone.

In response, the entity recruited two new elements. Two more members of humanity to support Lorgar in his quest to confront mankind and to spit in the face of the cancerous mass that is society. Etherium and Xjort became essential links to the entity, joining Lorgar in forming the triumvirate that would represent Forneus leaving its infancy. The triumvirate shared a vision of humanity's failure, seeing all the future had to offer at the end of society's path and seeing nothing but desolation. They understood the natural state of entropy in mankind's psyche and shared the entity's desire to rebel against the path chosen by the many. They would become the Anti. The Opposer. The force of Khaos to this world's order.

Forneus became renewed, the fires of hatred burning in it's blackened form, the new-found power it had flowing into the triumvirate of Lorgar, Etherium and Xjort. With their help, the entity found a new voice, the “Litanies Of Hatred” EP. With every performance, every lyric filled with anger, vehemence and aggression, this EP signalled a new era in the evolution of Forneus.

After the initial carnage loosed by the entity, it withdrew into the shadows, gathering new strength and energy through the triumvirate. They began preparing new hymnals, yet as their visions developed, their inner flames turned from a flash fire to a slow burn. Forneus mutated further as it grew stronger, mirroring the philosophy of the triumvirate. Together the triumvirate helped the entity evolve, drawing ever closer to it’s ultimate destiny.

Finally, in the winter of 2013, the entity returned. It had come to enlighten, to open the eyes of the ignorant, to teach the ways of khaos, to continue on the path of the Anti. Forneus had come to conquer. They recorded and released a split album and a second EP, both showing the continual evolution of the entity's intentions.

As it grew stronger, a fourth avatar was drawn in. Äksahl entered the fold and they prepared new material to further their path. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forneus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.