The story of Forsaken Age begins in 2009, when the members of the band first trod the boards under the name Twisted Metal, playing
Classic Metal covers and quickly establishing themselves as one of the more popular and sought after Metal covers bands in the Auckland
area. In between various line-up changes, in late 2010 the members decided they wanted to pay homage to their metal heroes by writing original material which resurrected the halcyon days of NWOBHM and Classic Metal. In order to prevent any confusion, and to separate themselves from their Covers Band past, Forsaken Age was born. Drawing on influences such as Saxon, Iron Maiden, Dio, Accept, Manowar and Mercyful Fate (to name but a few), the band began to work
on their own material. The culmination of their efforts can be heard on their entirely self-funded and self-produced debut album ‘Back From Extinction’, released in November 2012. The album has received glowing reviews, both in New Zealand and abroad, since it’s release. In addition to their writing and recording duties, the band took to the stage to showcase the material, to rave reviews. Even before the album release, the power of their material earned them an opening slot on metal legend Tim “Ripper” Owens tour in June 2012, and various local
gigs merely served to enhance their reputation and increased the growing anticipation for the album’s release.
Prior to the album’s release, they were also featured in internationally distributed fanzine Axiom Of The Elite’s debut edition, which showcases the best of unsigned New Zealand metal talent. A track from the album, Pedal To The Metal, was included in the compilation CD which accompanied the fanzine.
The band celebrated the release of the album by performing a blistering set at Auckland’s Thirsty Dog Bar on November 3rd, 2012 and are currently lining up a series of shows to promote the album, including an opening slot on Scandinavian metal act Nightwish’s only New Zealand gig, and opening for Australian power metallers Johnny Touch at both of their New Zealand shows
The Forsaken Age philosophy is a simple one, Metal is not a fashion statement, it is a lifestyle. The band are proud to take the stage in denim and leather and make no apologies for where they have come from musically. One reviewer has described the band as delivering a “Balls to the wall live performance which was nothing but fist in the air, head banging, heavy metal….”, another simply said that they were “Heavy, Happy, Classic Metal and they love it”.
Now with the album on sale, and almost 10,000 fans worldwide following their progress on social media networks, Forsaken Age are ready to take over the World. If you believe that Metal is a way of life and that the denim vest is a badge of honour, join Forsaken Age in their battle to bring back Classic Metal <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Forsaken+Age">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.