Fort Knox Five is a DJ collective out of Washington DC. Their style ranges from eclectic downbeat & hip hop, to upbeat funk and breaks. They have DJed in Russia, Germany, Greece, Spain, Hungary, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Australia, New Zealand, Thailand, and Canada. 

FK5 fuse live instrumentation with modern electronics to create a funk-driven sound. They've remixed Tito Puente, Louis Armstrong, Tower of Power, A Skillz and Krafty Kuts, Dynamo Productions, and Mo'Horizons. They produced four tracks on Afrika Bambaataa's album "Dark Matter" on Tommy Boy Records. 

In 2005 they were selected into the prestigious Urb Magazine Next 100, and featured on the Hotel Costes Sept Compilation. In 2005 FK5 also teamed up with the English Funkateers, Skeewiff at Jalapeno Records. Together they compiled a breakbeat funk compilation called The Raid. It features exclusive tracks and remixes by Skeewiff, the Fort Knox Five, and Kraak en Smaak. These tunes all come from the back catalogs of Fort Knox and Jalapeno.

Also in 2005 was when they were selected to be Gwen Stefanis tour and show DJ on the Harajuku Lovers 2005 tour.

In 2006, the Fort Knox Five released the New Gold Standard Vol 1, which was the first cd release for Fort Knox. It is a compilation of songs coming from the vaults of Fort Knox. 

Visit www.fortknoxrecordings.com for more information. 

Discography
Singles
FKX009 - The Spirit of '75
FKX008 - The New Gold Standard EP
FKX005 - Radio Free DC
FKX004 - The Brazilian Hipster
FKX003 - Blowing Up the Barrio
FKX002 - The Big Score
FKX001 - Dodge City Rockers

Albums
Radio Free DC (Expected Release 2008)

Compilations
FKX010 - Reminted
FKX007 - The New Gold Standard

Remixes
Bob Marley - Soul Shakedown Party (Rock R)
Bob Marley - Duppy Conqueror (Quango)
Bittersweet - Salty (Quango)
Malente - Open Secret (Unique)
Ancient Astronauts - 36 Hours (Switchstance)
Watch TV & The Primitives- Voodoo Royale (Hi-Top)
Ursula 1000 - Electrik Boogie (ESLMusic)
Joe Bataan - The Fool (ESLMusic)
Torpedo Boyz - Are You Talking to Me???
Kraak & Smaak - One of These Days (Jalapeno)
Chris Joss - Wrong Alley Street (ESLMusic)
Soulphonic Soundsystem - Catalina Sunset (Convincing Woodgrain)
Skeewiff - Now I’m Living for Me (Jalapeno)
Dynamo Productions - Get It Together (Unique)
Mo' Horizons - Drum & Boogalo (Stereo Deluxe)
A. Skillz & Krafty Kuts - Ain’t It Funky (Fingerlickin)
Nickodemus - Give the Drummer Some (Wonderwheel)
Tito Puente - Ran Kan Kan (Concord)
Louis Armstrong - Jeepers Creepers (Rock River)
Rex Riddem - Salvador Diaspora (Fort Knox)
Deborah Bond - Don't Waste Your Time (Sahara)
Jeff Settle - The Whistle Song (Funk Weapons)
Dr. Rubberfunk - The Owner (GPS Recordings)
Rodney Hunter - Electric Lady (G-Stone)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fort+Knox+Five">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.