Album Notes

Among the wide and numerous ranks of aspiring young Texas musicians, “something different” is an idiom that is often toted and seldom achieved. Forty Thieves has proven an exception to this rule, carving out a unique musical niche that incorporates a host of styles and influences, from blues, jazz, and rock to country, folk, and even gospel. Forty Thieves energetic live show invokes an open versatility reminiscent of artists such as the Allman Brothers, Black Crowes, and Grateful Dead, while their concise recordings maintain a pop sensibility that proves accessible to a wide range of audiences.

Forty Thieves began in Austin, Texas, in 2001, stemming from weekly acoustic shows by frontman Josh Davis at Cain and Abel’s, a popular University of Texas campus bar. As these low-key jam sessions gathered momentum, the band began honing their original material, and played their first shows in the summer of 2002.

In the summer of 2003, the band recorded a self-titled EP and hit the road, juggling show dates in Austin with performances in Lubbock, Fort Worth, Dallas, San Marcos, and Waco.

In 2004, Forty Thieves became one of Austin’s hardest working bands. They maintained a residency at the Dizzy Rooster, a newly opened 6th street bar, as well as regular shows at such popular Austin watering holes as Friends, Ego’s, Hole in the Wall, and Maggie Mae’s. All in all, the band played over 100 shows on 6th street and on the road in 2004.

In August of 2004, the band took time off to record their first full length studio album, entitled I Don’t Owe You a Thing. The record was cut in South Austin’s Bismeaux Studios, under the guidance of Cris Burns, one of Austin’s top engineers.

In 2005, Forty Thieves added guitarist Dizzy Gillespie to round out a fuller, more rock and roll sound. Dizzy’s accomplished resume includes worldwide touring as a solo artist and collaboration with the Kentucky Headhunters, Doyle Bramhall Sr., Whitesnake, Bugs Henderson, and Ed King of Lynyrd Skynyrd.

Forty Thieves embarks upon the future with a full-length album and three years of hard gigging under their belts. As the band continues to mature and progress, so does the music Forty Thieves fans have come to find so inspiring. Come see the band live, buy the album, and discover why Forty Thieves will steal the show for years to come.

Forty Thieves are:

Josh Davis: vocals, guitar, piano
Josh Greco: drums, vocals
Dizzy Gillespie: guitars, mandolin, vocals
Roger Rodriguez: bass, vocals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/FORTY+THIEVES">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.