FORTRESS UNDER SIEGE formed back in 1992 by Fotis Sotirpoulos (Guitars) and John Vasilakis (Guitars) after the split up of GLADIATORS. With the addition of Michael Smeros in vocals and Nick Dedes at drums and guest musician Aris Matheakakis at bass they started recordings for their debut. Initially was to be released as a Tape EP under the tittle "Moments..." but finally released in 1996 as a self titled mini CD from Metal Mad Music, a release that had a great impact at that time and still considered to be one of the best progressive power metal releases from a Greek band.

In the meantime Vangelis Hatziandreou (Bass) and George Georgiou (Keyboards) had joined that band and promoted their release with live performances.

Although inactive since 1998 FORTRESS UNDER SIEGE continue composing and finally reunite in 2009 and current line up is:

Fotis Sotiropoulos – Guitars
Michael Smeros – Vocals
George Georgiou – Keyboards
Vaggelis Hatziandreou – Bass
Giannis Dimoulas – Drums

During March 2011 FORTRESS UNDER SIEGE announced a contract deal with Metal Mad Music, and their new full length album “The Mortal Flesh Of Love” is due to be released during summer 2011.

On March 22, 2011 the first single “Deeds Of All Disgrace” has been released.

On June 4, 2011, the first video clip “Blind Faith” was released. The video clip is a production of The Progressive Vision Group and directed by Bob Katsionis.

Their new album “The Mortal Flesh Of Love” released on July 1st, 2011. The album is mixed and produced by Nigel Foxxe and the cover is based on original oil painting of Levan Gogidatze.

Track listing as follows:

01.Deeds Of All Disgrace
02.Last Temptation
03.Holy Communion
04.My Foulest Sin
05.Gods Of War
06.Night Caress
07.The Mortal Flesh Of Love
08.Alexander
09.Blind Faith
10.Faithless

Currently the band is working hard on rehearsals getting ready to promote their album with live shows!

Stay tuned for more!

Fortress Under Siege Discography

Fortress Under Siege – S/T 1996, Metal Mad Music
Fortress Under Siege – The Mortal Flesh Of Love 2011, Metal Mad Music

http://fortressundersiege.blogspot.com
http://www.myspace.com/fortressundersiege <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fortress+Under+Siege">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.