fortydaysrain- Inception-1996

Homebase-Worcester/Clinton, MA

Formed from the ashes of early 90’s hc/emo/metal bands-uplift, fragment, orchard and incite

Releases-

self released 4 song tape demo

Cd EP “temptation of our own demise“- first released on One Way Home recordings and later picked up by Dave Duncan’s East Coast Empire records(home of reach the sky, groundzero, integrity, sum of all fears, fear tomorrow and divided by hate)

Split 7 inch with the year of our lord on DIE records

2 song 7 inch on even the score records

Compilations- Iodine Recordings "Ghost in the Gears" CD compilation with Cave In, Milhouse, Garrison, Converge, Daltonic, Indecision, Jeromes Dream, Force Fed Glass, Catharsis, Bastian, Good Clean Fun, and more

Tortuga records “Metal is a Tough Business“ comp with Shadows Fall, Scissorfight, non compos mentis, Miltown, Piecemeal, the year of our lord and more-

a Wonderdrug records promo sampler With Sam Black Church, Piecemeal and more

Endless Fight Records comp with Unearth, Red Sky, Clubber Lang, Nora, God Forbid, Dare to Defy, Undying, Cipher, Day of Mourning, Diecast, Beyond all Hope, Through & Through, Crossthread, Jane, Unsound, All Is Lost, Red Tide, Deep and Final Hour.

Our shit was mid 90’s metal core plain and simple. We were all fans of the Early 90’s local Massachusetts hardcore scene. Bands like kingpin, dive, arise, cast iron hike, temperance and overcast among many others. We also shared a love for what was at the time considered “overground” metal. Early metallica, at the gates, carcass and slayer etc etc. There were no brick wall band photos, no videos on mtv, no sold out shows and definitely no cash to be made.

We did this for our love of the scene and our love of the music. For the hypocritical “posi”- youth crew revivalists who preached “scene unity” and showed anything but. For the bands like bane and blood has been shed who restored our faith in hardcore and metal and for every single guy/gal who came out to the shows with open minds and open hearts.

We toured the east coast a multitude of times with our best buds in THE YEAR OF OUR LORD and did a 4 band Wonderdrug records tour with piecemeal, diecast and die my will. We played loco bazooka(1999) in front of roughly 15,000 at green hill park in Worcester (much to the dismay of the hc “scenester” ). We also seemed to play the espresso bar (Worcester), space (Worcester), St. Johns gym (Clinton) café savoi (aka nightmare central NH) and the safe and sound (nh) on a weekly basis. Follow that up with some early metal fests at the Palladium, the Milwaukee Metal Fest(1999) and a reunion show (original members) in memory of our good friend Davey K at Kinosian fest in 2002 and you have our shit show in a nutshell. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fortydaysrain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.