Please note there are 4 artists with this name on last.fm. As such, media or information here may appear incorrectly credited. Artists that share the name 'Foto' are:

1. An Experimental/Electronic/Pop band formed in Auckland, New Zealand  1999.
2. A Serbian Electro/New Wave Pop band formed in 2000.
3. The singer/guitarist/keyboard player of an Estonian indie rock band ans. andur.
4. A finnish rock group FOTO.
5. Duo inspired from Balearic, Italo Disco and Cosmic Disco.

1. FOTO is a trio comprised of  Maxwell Scott, Dylan Pharazyn and David Bennewith that makes experimental electronic ‘pop’ music. They employ a variety of instrumentation from toy keyboards, feedback loops, theremin, brass and kitchen implements to more traditional guitar, bass, drums and vocals.  Soft vocals, eclectic instrumentation and extreme electronic processing are all common features. Key reference points would include, Stereolab, Cornelius, Can, Brian Eno, Broadcast and The Chap.

The official site for FOTO (NZ) is: http://www.myspace.com/fotoandradar

2009 sees the release of FOTO’s debut Album.  Which has been well received and has drawn comparisons to Fridge, Karamasov, Portal and Cornelius.

Releases:

Album (2009)
National Park song and video on A Low Hum Series 2, Issue 15 (2004)
Places To Imagine People In on Sideways Too, RTM Records (2001)
I’m Friends With Ghosts split single with James Duncan and Force Field Research (2001)
Test Pattern E.P. (2000)

Pharazyn and Scott formed FOTO in 1999 in Auckland, New Zealand and produced the Test Pattern E.P. shortly thereafter. David Bennewith joined FOTO after being asked to do the sleeve photography for the Test Pattern E.P.  Their song Places To Imagine People In was released on the compilation Sideways Too on RTM Records in 2001. 

FOTO has provided support for New Zealand bands Dimmer, The Clean, SJD as well as touring acts such as Trans Am, and Chicks On Speed. Live drums have often been provided by Garry Sullivan (Jean Paul Satre Experience (JPSE), Dimmer, Solid Gold Hell) and Julien Dyne.


4. FOTO is a finnish rock group formed 1999. Although named after its lead singer, FOTO is a band of four equal members, known as an excellent live act. 

The FOTO members dislike the idea of limiting themselves to a particular type of music from the get-go, or chasing trends. Instead, they just want to be and sound like themselves.

The official sites for FOTO (FIN): http://www.fotomusiikki.net and http://www.myspace.com/fotomusiikki
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foto">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.