King Stench, Rotting Limb, Smushed Cranium. Before Foul Stench, King ,Rotting Limb and Rotten Innards all went to Beavercreek High School in Beavercreek, Ohio U.S.A. together, in 1983,1984. We all started jamming together. Influenced by Venom, Celtic Frost, Bathory, Mercyful Fate. Played old cover songs at the beginning, Judas Priest, Aerosmith, Metal Church, Metallica, Savatoge , Motorhead, old 80"s Metal. 1987,1988  King Stench,Rotting Limb, Smushed Cranium,and Rotten Innards join Paul McDermott Vocalist of Punk band Social Disease, to form punk / Metal band Manitou, The next Year they change their name to Killust. Soon after the formation , King Stench and Rotting Limb and Rotten Innards depart to try new sounds and meet new musicians. 1989 King Stench joins a band called Scarecrow. A total change of image and sound. Big Hair, boots, spandex, Lots of jewelry , Hanoi Rocks / L.A.Guns look ! Sort of like Celtic Frost when they released Cold Lake. It was a short lived band. Rotten Innards joins Thrash Death Metal band Decay from Dayton ,Oh. U.S.A. The drummer Brian Harris ,who is now the drummer for Foul Stench a.k.a Stool Sample. But before he starts King Stench , Rotting Limb and Smushed Cranium form Foul Stench in 1990. In 1993 they self release their first demo cassette tape JIZMARK with  Rotten Innards and new bass player Bone Shapnel, King Stench and Smushed Cranium. In 1994 self release another demo cassette tape ORIGINAL RECIPE with original line-up King, Smushed and Limb. In 1995 They self release another demo called FILTH.King, Smushed  and Limb.All the demos get nationwide distribution, great and not so great reviews. Foul Stench is played on many radio stations around the world and are added to many earlier compilation c.d.s nationwide ! Shortly after Filth the band goes through some tough times. Many members coming and going. Soon it gets to be to much and call it quits for almost a decade.In 2004 Fans want the band back, plus members, King Stench, Rotting Limb, Rotten Innards decide it's time to get it going again. King Starts writing immediately and team  up with with blasting sounds of hell. Brian Harris ex-Decay, Firewind,, My Own Victim, Micheal Harris, Pawn, Reefer Hut.etc. Brian Harris( Stool Sample ) joins Foul Stench and give a whole new sound to the band, and it pays off ! In 2007 Foul Stench - The Bone c.d. released on Ukraine label, UKRAGH PRODUCTIONS. In 2008 Foul Stench - The Beginning 1993-1996 c.d. is released on well known China label AREADEATH PRODUCTIONS. In 2009 Foul Stench / Skitzo split 7"  is released on Boneless Records ( U.S.A. ) Now in 2010 Foul Stench has just signed with well known U. S. A. Labels SEVARED RECORD AND BUTCHERED RECORDS. New c.d. Eternal Rot to be released this Summer ! Hails ! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foul+Stench">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.