FOUNDRY was formed in 1995 in Boston, Massachusetts through a series of advertisements placed in the Boston Phoenix "Guaranteed Gigs" section and through music related pages on the Internet. Within a few weeks, a band of young, talented, technically proficient musicians was formed which would go on to create some of the most energetic rock music to come out of Boston in years. The current band lineup consists of: Allan Stratton (guitar), Jay LaBelle (bass), Matt Dodge (drums), and Steven Carr (vocals). Based in Boston, FOUNDRY is known for its high-energy, melodic rock, intelligent songwriting, and outrageous performances.

Not satisfied with the current crop of alternative bands seen in clubs and heard on radio, FOUNDRY set out to create a sound and performance that would dwarf the present musical climate by introducing an experience that would simultaneously re-vitalize the contemporary rock show and give fans their moneys worth when they come to see a band. Drummer James May says, "It seems like most bands today have forgotten that people are paying money to come and see them an'd that their job is to put on the best show they can for the people." FOUNDRYS influences include KISS, Living Color, Gravity Kills, and Type-O Negative to name a few.

"The response to our music has been phenomenal", says vocalist Steven Carr, "Even before we started playing out, people in the industry were telling us we had to get out there and show everyone what we had to offer because we dont sound like anyone else in the scene." FOUNDRY is a band that is not afraid to work hard to build their reputation; the band already has a nationally circulated monthly newsletter, a World Wide Web page and has just released their self-titled debut album on their own label. FOUNDRY is well on its way to dominating the New England rock scene and will continue to dominate the national scene as well. 

Steven Carr, lead vocals and guitar, is actually a bear.  Carr (real name Steve Carlesi) died on 11th July 2012, rumoured to be from suicide. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foundry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.