Louisa Rose Allen (born 29 April 1989), better known by her stage name Foxes, is a British singer and songwriter originally from Southampton and now based in London. She is best known for her featured vocals on Zedd's song "Clarity", which peaked at number eight on the Billboard Hot 100 and at number one of the US Hot Dance Club Songs, and "Let Go for Tonight" which entered the UK Singles Chart at number seven on 8 March 2014. On 26 January 2014, she won her first Grammy Award, winning Best Dance Recording at the 56th Grammy Awards for "Clarity".

On her website, Allen explained the origin of her stage name. Allen's mother had described a “haunting and beautiful” dream in which foxes ran down their street, howling. Allen, who had been attempting to find a suitable stage name, settled on "Foxes". She found the name fitting because it reflected her music: she had titled her first song “Like Foxes Do" and many of her subsequent songs were about animals. She considered training to be a beauty therapist in her hometown of Southampton but moved to London when she was 18, following her sister and brother, and attended music college. She began doing gigs as "Foxes" in London, UK in 2011.

Allen rose to fame when she was featured in Zedd's "Clarity". It charted in numerous countries, including debuting within the top ten at eight in Billboard Hot 100. The song reached Double Platinum in Australia, Platinum in the U.S. and Canada, Gold in New Zealand.

She has released a single and an EP, Warrior, as 'Foxes', working with Sam Dixon. Both tracks from debut single "Youth" were featured in Gossip Girl. She also worked with Fall Out Boy on the song "Just One Yesterday" and its music video. "Youth" (including remixes from Danny Howard, Breakage, Le Youth, Nate Goldsmith and Maze & Masters) has so far garnered millions combined SoundCloud and YouTube plays between them. Another single, "Beauty Queen", was released on 13 May 2013. She was signed to RCA, who re-released her single "Youth" on 21 August 2013,with a remix EP being released on 27 October 2013. Foxes is working on her debut album to be released at the beginning of 2014 by RCA. She says the album has a "dark streak… as well as a pop element that runs through it." On 31 October, Foxes revealed the name of her debut album to be Glorious. On 4 November, she unveiled the album cover along with the tracklist through Instagram, including 11 tracks on the standard version and 16 on the deluxe version. A brand new recorded version of "Let Go for Tonight" was released on 23 February 2014, charting in the UK at number seven and becoming her most successful single to date.

After some time, Foxes released the single: "Holding Onto Heaven" on 17 December which was available as a free download from iTunes for Christmas. The album's release date is expected to be on 12 May 2014.

Foxes is also featured on Fall Out Boy's song "Just One Yesterday" from their new album Save Rock and Roll. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foxes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.