The solo project of Toronto musician and Orchid Tapes founder Warren Hildebrand, Foxes in Fiction was born as an an outlet for their dreamy sound collages and grew into a far more musical vision of ambient pop. Along with frequent limited-release cassettes and free songs posted online, Foxes in Fiction's sound grew richer and more refined on releases like 2014's Ontario Gothic.

Toronto-born musician Hildebrand formed Foxes in Fiction in 2005 during their second year in high school. The project initially showcased their trippy sound collages and ambient soundscapes. Early recordings like 2010 debut full-length Swung from the Branches tended more toward this style. In the earliest days of the project, Hildebrand recorded and released new music prolifically, churning out EPs, cassette releases, 7" singles, and a wealth of songs fans could download for free. Foxes in Fiction developed at the same time Hildebrand's label Orchid Tapes was becoming a home for trend-setting artists like Elvis Depressedly, Ricky Eat Acid, and Alex G. The second Foxes in Fiction album, Ontario Gothic, arrived in 2014. More song-oriented than some of their earlier ambient collage material, the seven-track album drew on themes of loss and musically veered toward lo-fi production and intimate shoegaze textures. By this time, Hildebrand had relocated from Toronto to New York, and that transition, along with the self-destructive impulses it wrought, provided the inspiration for third album Trillium Killer. The release was recorded between 2017 and 2019 in Hildebrand's home studio and proved their most versatile and shifting effort yet, incorporating elements of glowing dream pop, ambient atmospheres, loungey pop, and vocal manipulations representing different characters within the tiny universe the songs created. Trillium Killer was released in October of 2019 on Orchid Tapes.

http://foxesinfiction.ca <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Foxes+in+Fiction">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.