There are several bands with the name (Fractal):

1) Fractal (USA) is an EDM producer from Baltimore, MD.  Brady Wiggins, a.k.a. Fractal, is a protege of BT and tours with Enrique Iglesias as the band DJ.  Often collaborating with his friend Au5, Fractal brings the avant-garde of the solo electronic music experience, fusing the likes of dubstep, drum & bass, electro house, trance, ambient, and psychedelic music into a no-rules no-limits genre of pure meditative bliss and raw power. Fractal has shared a stage with the likes of Eskmo, Caspa, Skrillex, Tokimonsta, Zeds Dead, Mark Instinct, Numbernin6, Datsik, Borgore, Flux P, Excision, Doctor P, Paper Diamond, Beats Antique, Mimosa, J Rabbit, Ajapai, and others. Many of Fractal's musical creations are featured on the Monstercat label and he is a founding featured artist on EDM.com.


2) Instrumental debut CD Continuum, released in 2003 by the San Jose CA based progressive rock band Fractal. Their website is www.fractal-continuum.com. Fractal were formed in 2000 with a strong early influence from mid-late period King Crimson, and have since developed a unique sound, often using complex time signatures. In 2008, they are finalizing the recording of their second full CD. A single track from this CD "Aftermath" was pre-released in 2007. It is nine minutes and eleven seconds long, is in alternating nine and eleven time, and features vocals for the first time.

3) Fractal is Thor Kell, an electronic musician and DJ based in Victoria, BC, Canada.  He likes music that sounds likes science fiction.  
He runs an online label called Tide Pool, dedicated to odd techno, leftfield masterworks and off-kilter dancefloor devastators.  
He has signed remixes and original music to Fade, Precinct, Pacific Front, a:Loud, Mmmph, and Inaspace, as well as numerous releases on Tide Pool.


4) Fractal is nickname of Ondrej Grzegorz, a producer and Dj from Czech Republic, who is living in Finland and owns label Surface Tension records. His on-stage appearances started in 2001. Fractal has been performing as liveact in Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Finland, UK, Germany and Czech Republic. This project is mainly about psychedelic trance music, but as well about drum'n'bass and ambient. You can hear some tunes at myspace profile. 

5) Fractal formado en febrero de 2005, con el objetivo de crear un sonido diferente en una escena dominada por el punk rock y el metal; a través de horas de ensayo la banda empezó a crear un sonido propio y diferenciador, con influencias que van desde el rock, el screamo y el nu metal.

Actualmente la banda está integrada por Sebastián Patiño en las voces, Andrés Castaño en la batería, Osmar Gaviria en el bajo, Manuel Castaño y Mario Barrios en las guitarras; trabajan constantemente en la creación de música con riffs creativos y ritmos claros que llevan por diferentes emociones y experiencias sonoras.

6). Fractal were an English, London-based electronic group, consisting of Dave Satchell-Day on keyboards and Lindsay Buckham, the vocalist and other keyboardist.

7) Metal/Rock band from Bendigo,Australia.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fractal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.