Fractal (n): A form, generated by successive subdivisions of a simpler object using an iterative process, that displays the same form at all layers of magnification. Fractalline: An entity with the properties of a fractal.
facebook | bandcamp | reverbnation
Formed: 2010
Hometown Location: Los Angeles, California
Genre: Technical Death Metal | Progressive Metal
Record Label: Bodhi Sphere Records

Band
Jordan Nalley :: Vocals
Kp Krishnamoorthy :: Guitars
Will McLean :: Bass
Ray Rojo :: Drums

BIO
Fractalline: As the name suggests, the band consists of members who are subsets of the whole, who came together at the Musicians’ Institute to play aggressive technical metal. With all the members having a philosophical bent of sorts, the music and lyrics are written with the purpose of connecting to the audience, and moving people’s lives forward.

Each musician has his own story, prior bands and musical history before contributing to create Fractalline; combined, there is a wealth of experience and talent contained within Fractalline that allows them to explore varied, arcane aspects of musicology such as odd meters, polyrhythmic variations and harmonic nuances. Their songs reflect the maturity that comes out of writing and performing songs in front of discerning audiences for years.

Kp and Sandy, from Bangalore, India, have played in a band named MyndSnare – which has been around for more than a decade, and has garnered a huge following back in India, with numerous press mentions by the likes of the Rolling Stone (India), Rock Street Journal, multiple national newspapers, etc.

In addition to their experience at performing, Kp and Sandy are from the select bunch of musicians in India to be endorsed by ESP Guitars & Basses.

Jordan, from a military background, has lived all over the world, and performed with metal bands in Japan and the United States. A certified audio and live sound engineer from the Musicians’ Institute, he adds invaluable knowledge of studio and live audio systems to the band. He’s continuing his education at the Musicians’ Institute in the future, enrolling in the vocal program.

Ray, from Mexico, started playing the drums when he was 13, and found his calling as a metalhead around the same time. After playing in bands and placing in national competitions in Mexico for a while, he shifted to Los Angeles to study percussion in earnest, in the graduate program at the Musicians’ Institute.

Will, the most recent addition to the band, joined shortly after the departure of Sandy, who wanted to concentrate on his other projects. Originally from Las Vegas, Nevada, Will moved to LA 2 years ago to study bass at Musicians Institute. After completing the bass associates and guitar craft programs he got a job working at the school where he met Ray. With over 10 years of bass experience under his belt, Will proves to be a great addition to the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fractalline">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.