Fragments of Unbecoming is a melodic death metal band from Laudenbach, Germany. The band's guitarist Sascha Ehrich is also a renowned artist in the metal world, having designed album covers for bands such as Necrophagist.

The band first started in August 2000 as the project of Mortified guitarist Sascha Ehrich and Venereal Disease guitarist Stefan Weimar, the latter also filling the position of vocalist. A drummer was quickly found in Ingo Maier (also of Venereal Disease) and after a few months of testing several bassists, Wolle Schellenberg, who had the right attitude and enthusiasm to get the gig, completed the band. The musical direction was soon decided upon, with inspiration being drawn mainly from the early Swedish Death Metal sound. Within a short time span the idea of a project was discarded, with Fragments of Unbecoming turning into a "real" band. As a consequence, Sascha quit Mortified in order to concentrate on his new sphere of activity. After 1½ years the band had enough material to choose from for the recording of a first MCD, as well as for a full live set. In the spring 2002 the debut "Bloodred Tales - Chapter I – The Crimson Season" was recorded at Stellwerk Studio, the disc being officially released in May. This MCD gained enthusiastic reactions from the press, getting the band to be represented on "Best Of Unsigned" compilations by both Rock Hard and Heavy Oder Was?! magazines. Metal Blade Records got aware of the buzz and the band signed a contract with the legendary label almost exactly a year after the release of their first recording. The first full-length album was recorded in the fall of 2003, once again at Stellwerk Studio, with production duties being shared by the band and Stefan Hahnbuch. The offering bears the title "Skywards – A Sylphe’s Ascension" and even surpasses the already high expectations: a Brutal yet dynamic and Melodic Death Metal record. In 2006, the band released their sophmore album, "Sterling Black Icon - Chapter III - Black But Shining." Their forthcoming album "Everhaunting Past - Chapter IV – A Splendid Retrospection" is scheduled for release in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fragments+Of+Unbecoming">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.