The history of the band has begun in 2004, in Moscow. At that time Alexey Orlov and Maxim Migachev played in the band, named Concordia. Approximately in the summer of the same year they had an idea about their own project because they had a desire to play heavier and vigorous music for a long time, and they also had some material which was not possible to realize in Concordia. Somehow time, in November, 2004 Alexey Orlov during ICQ dialogue with Dmitry Bukashin (which then took a great interest in shootings on video of domestic heavy groups in clubs) has mentioned that some material has accumulated and has shown it Dmitry. Having heard to it, Dmitry Bukashin has unconditionally agreed to join the band as the bass player. There was a business for small: to find the vocalist and the second guitarist. 
         Meanwhile February, 2005 has come. There was more difficultly to be in Concordia for Alexey and Maxim, because they had no time to be occupied with their own project, and as it was not regrettable for that moment, their own material interested them more. Not looking at high quality from the musical point of view, material of Concordia was not that Alexey and Maxim wished to play. And after demo recording, having conferred with guys from Concordia, they decided to leave the band to create their own material at last.
         In the end of February, 2005 with the strengthened rates had been renewed searches of the second guitarist and the vocalist. Dmitry Bukashin and Maxim Migachev in the days and at the nights ploughed open spaces of the Internet in searches of missing musicians. Separately it would be desirable to tell how the guitarist has been found. Dmitry, having despaired to find someone at musical forums, has entered keywords “metal” and “guitar” in ICQ search and, having push with the mouse button at random on one of contacts and has written the message « Let's play SMDM? » So the guitarist, Alexander Kazarin, played earlier in band, named Piligrim and unique from everything having music education, has joined the band. With his arrival working off of a material became more productive. There were generated the instrumental staff of the band at last and the strengthened rehearsals have begun. After couple of weeks had passed, vocalist Daniel Avaev have invited in group by Maxim and Dmitry after listening his demo on the Internet. So, at the moment of the first of March, 2005 the band staff was:

         Daniel Avaev - vocals
         Alexey Orlov - guitars
         Alexander Kazarin - guitars
         Dmitry Bukashin - bass
         Maxim Migachev - drums

         Under Dmitry Bukashin's offer it has been decided to name the band Fragile Nova. Having prepared the concert program for a month, the band successfully enough played at two festivals spent by Corporation of Monsters, in Moscow club Relax: on April, 9th, 2005 and on May, 21st, 2005. The recording of Fragile Nova's demo has been appointed to the end of July, but the band was left by Dmitry Bukashin. And again searches of musicians… In September Oleg Syomin, the bass player of Neon Guide has joined Fragile Nova. Rehearsals and preparation of a new material are renewed. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fragile+Nova">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.