1. a 90s hardcore band from syracuse, new york which features members of earth crisis

2. Electro-Industrial from Germany. Founded by Andreas Lehmann and Sigmund Droese in 1996. Both were infuenced by the dark electro scene of the 90´s. First result of the cooperaton was the demo tape “Hand on the trigger” which was released in 1997. In 2000 Daniel Konrad joined the band and they signed their frst record deal with Scanner/Dark Dimensions.
The debut album “Refectons” was released in 2002. It got good critques and Framework reached a higher attention by playing numerous of gigs. But then, for various reasons, the band had to pause and used the time to focus on the private life. Sigmund Droese decided to leave the band.
In late 2010 Daniel and Andreas decided to reanimate Framework. Afer 2 years of hard working the new album “Untold Stories” is ready to see the light of day. It takes you on a journey through the darkest human abysses of the soul. Varied vocals, combined with sounds from genres like EBM, Electro and glitch beats, showing how modern electronic music can sound like without denying their roots.

3. Psychedelic rock band from San Diego. A 2LP set exists, uncovering the story and 1968-69 studio/live recordings of this obscure outfit. Touted as "the second Brain Police" by hopeful dealers, the connection between the bands was marginal. The informative but longwinded liner notes refer to the band as a power trio and Hendrixy, but in actuality this is a pretty low-key, latenight bluesy club affair for most part. Some tracks have an Ant Trip Ceremony ambience, others are a bit like the Metromedia Christopher. Their rare 45 is included and one of the highlights. The packaging is unusual and appealing but maybe this one should have remained a standard format single LP.

4. Solo acoustic project of singer-songwriter Ben Ellis of Houston, TX also of the band Hollywood Black. Part of the Mia Kat Empire family.

5. framework podcast from resonance104.4fm. phonography/field-recording; contextual and decontextualized sound activity. 

framework has been on the air since june, 2002, featuring regular editions of new and old field recordings and field recording based composition, live on-air performances, and special editions such as framework:focus, which features the work of a single artist, project or theme in a continuous hour-long soundscape, and framework:afield, a series of programs curated and produced by guest artists from around the world.

5. Twin Cities jazz trio Framework, featuring guitarist Chris Olson, bassist Chris Bates and drummer Jay Epstein. The group formed in 1997 and released their eponymous debut in 2009, which the Minneapolis Star Tribune dubbed one of the best jazz albums of the year, describing it as “both cerebral and visceral, electric and acoustic, with sublime compositions, enviable empathy.” Those elements are on full display once again on Cognitive Dissonance, with 10 original compositions from guitarist Olson and “New Anthem,” a reimagining of the “Star Spangled Banner,” which bookends the album. 
Initially inspired by their shared love of ECM artists like the Keith Jarrett Trio and Gateway Trio of John Abercrombie, Dave Holland, and Jack DeJohnnette, Framework sought to explore that sound and approach. Now more than two decades on, they have molded their own trio sound, and while Olson is the primary composer, this is a collective group with a collective sound. Recorded in late summer 2020 with Grammy winning drummer and engineer JT Bates, the trio was working through the events of the previous months with the world shutting down for the pandemic and, in its backyard, the murder of George Floyd and subsequent protests. These cerebral compositions took on a greater level of emotion during the session, and the listener can hear the joy of the musicians getting to play together along with the hurt and anger of what had transpired in their city. 
Epstein has been at the heart of the Twin Cities jazz scene since the early 1970s, having toured and recorded with Bill Carrothers, Anthony Cox and Dean Magraw among others. Bates also serves as a key member of the scene, leading his own groups while also playing in Atlantis Quartet and Red Planet. Olson is a graduate of the University of North Texas and a dedicated educator who has performed with Bob Mintzer, Louis Bellson, Terry Gibbs, Ira Sullivan, and Bobby Vinton.
While Framework holds no grand illusions that music is the answer to these problems, they believe that music is a unifying and healing force; a vibration of human spirit and ingenuity that can soothe a troubled mind or inspire others to look into themselves and see one another from a different perspective. They hope that music can help move us past our cognitive dissonance.

7. An underground Hip-Hop artist from Massachusetts. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Framework">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.