Discography: 
"Shadow of A Dying Dream" 2006
"No Season Fits My Surroundings" 2005
Self Titled Promo 2003


Frameless Scar rely heavily on the artistic view of music. Every instrument is thoroughly planned out, and they do their best to make thunder sound beautiful. With a touch of sadness and a punch of aggression combined with lyrics of passion, they scrape the surface of a new sound in the metal genre. Give the music a go and you’ll find that the music is played with originality, honesty, emotions and feeling. Soon you will realize that Frameless Scar is not "just another band”, but indeed a band with a lot of potential and they have a whole lot of new stuff to add to an otherwise overplayed genre.

  The story ...
Frameless Scar formed in summer 2000 under the name Joketone. The band grew very tired of the name, so in mid 2003 they changed their name to Frameless Scar. The name, Frameless Scar, was quickly decided, since it represents both music and lyrics. - We would not set any boundaries for the music (frameless) and the lyrics and music was about our emotional scars throughout life. In the winter of 2003, Frameless Scar recorded a demo called Promo 2003. Later that year, guitarist Otte decided to leave. We were happy to join forces with Danni Plougstrup. Former bassist Gakke's Leaving in February 2004 left an opening, which Thomas Falkengren filled out. The band saw this and the new name as an opportunity to try something new, and throughout 2004 we worked hard on making material for the MCD we were to record. In September 2004 Frameless Scar went to Jacob Hansen's studios (Invocator, Hatesphere, Mercenary) in Råhede (Denmark) to record the MCD entitled “No Season Fits My Surroundings”.

The line-up now is as follows.

Nicolaj Hansen: Guitar.

Thue Houmann Schmidt: Guitar.

Jonas Underbjerg: Bass.

Peter Mathiesen: Drums.

Jan Jepsen: Vocals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frameless+Scar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.