There are several artists who have performed under the name Frankee:

 1. A drum & Bass producer from London. Currently signed to RAM Records.

2. A female RnB singer from Staten Island, New York. 

1. David Franks otherwise known as Frankee is part of a new wave of producers to hit hit the scene in recent months. Although a new face to many, Frankee's history spans back more than a decade of dedication and hard graft from when he was first introduced to Drum & Bass via his older brother at the age of 13. D&B, Garage, Jungle and Hip Hop dominated the household sound system with a pinch of Rock & Roll and Reggae chucked in the mix from his parents. Taking an early interest in this, Frankee went on to own his first set of 1210's when he was just 14 and started spinning vinyls at home as well as at at a local youth club where he could share and express his interests. Moving swiftly on, enjoying playing what he loved, Frankee's next step was to see if some of his own musical ideas could come to light. At the time of his coming of age he took the leap into production. Many a year passed in the lab concentrating on all the key factors of producing a great song until he was 22. Things stepped a gear at this point as he began to concentrate heavily on his production. This eventually lead to a collaboration with friend and D&B don Basher. Together, the pair produced the ever so popular track Nevada which, after sometime, made it onto Basher's Transmission album. Bearing this in mind, Frankee had now gained recognition within the Ram Records circle and in turn gave him the confidence to hand a demo of his works to the 3 top players at Ram HQ, including Andy C. Just two months passed until he got the phone call from Ram offering this versatile producer the premier outing on their newly formed sister label, Program! Having gained support from the likes of Andy C, Bailey, Crissy criss, Basher and many others on his now known tracks Firethorn & Pandorum, the future is set to be bright for Frankee, as he continues to appear at shows from the UK to Europe, taking his sound to the masses. As the inspiration & production fuels, you're guaranteed to hear much more from this new talent, as the name Frankee is quickly becoming the talk of the town!


2. Frankee (born Nicole Francine Aiello, on 9 June 1983, in Staten Island, New York) is an American pop and R&B singer. She claims to be the ex-girlfriend of singer Eamon. She is widely regarded as a one hit wonder and has lost credibility ever since her relationship with Eamon was exposed as merely a marketing ploy to sell records.

In 2003, she appeared on Louie DeVito's Dance Divas Volume 1, for the track "Making Love Out Of Nothing At All" under the name Nikki A.

In 2004 she recorded the song Fuck You Right Back, abbreviated to "F.U.R.B." for its general release. The song uses the same musical arrangement as fuck it (full title: "Fuck It (I Don't Want You Back)") and is an answer single to his profanities. With this song, Frankee reached the Number One position in the UK singles chart in May 2004, and also the Australian ARIAnet singles chart in June 2004.

Her first album The Good, The Bad, The Ugly received contributions from noted songwriters Makeba and Andre Deyo, with production was by The Trackmasters and Grammy winner Rich Harrison.

For more info see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frankee
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frankee">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.