FSR were a deathcore/metalcore band formed in late 2006. The decision to split was in August 2008 and they played their last show sometime in 2009.

Members:
Tom Johnstone - Vocals
Hartaj Hunjan - Guitar
Matt White - Bass
Ryan Gillet - Drums

Ex-Members:
Adam Potter - Guitar
Paul Smith - Guitar
Jason Daniels - Drums

This is a review of their last show with Adam:
Riot Fest 28/06/08, Southampton ‘Frankie Says Relax’ took the 48-mile trip from Reading to play here today and they didn’t disappoint. Chatting to them in the beer garden I didn’t think they would be the same guys that would be tearing my face off with the intense blast beats and aggressive guttural vocals but these guys could play! One thing I will say, ‘Frankie Says Relax’ have one of the best drummers I have seen and heard live in a very, very long time. As one sweaty over excited guy said to me after the set. “That guy is a machine” - VEW Magazine.

Reasoning behind split:
"Okay we split up because paul feels he is to old now for a band. and no one digs what were doing anymore, the new clip is what we started to aim for and was going to be a fresh start but with Paul deciding to leave, we are now going to change our name and get a new guitarist and get things back on track. Thanks to everyone who ever gigged with us, watched us, brought us food, let us stay with them, rolled us fags, paid us, brought our merch etc. we really do appreciate it. Its about time we ended things as things have seemed to be always against us, and the fucking shit gay fucking cycle of certain Reading bands who love each other and just look at us other bands as a piece of shit and don't even give us a second look and talk shit, so cheers to you. We don't give a shit what you say, cos you probably won't even take the time to read this! Anyway wicked check our other projects out and we will have something new soon, all details will be on this myspace and i shall put the link up to the new bands myspace as soon as that is sorted." - MySpace 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frankie+Says+Relax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.