Frank Klepacki is an American musician, video game composer and sound director, best known for his work on the Command & Conquer series. Having learned to play drums as a child, he joined Westwood Studios as a composer when he was 17 years old. He has scored several games there, including the Lands of Lore series, Westwood Studios' Dune games, The Legend of Kyrandia series, Blade Runner, and the Command & Conquer series. His work in Command & Conquer: Red Alert won two awards.

He lives in Las Vegas, where he has shaped a solo career and played and produced for several local bands. His personal and band work touches upon several genres, including orchestral, rock music, hip hop music, soul music, and funk. He has dubbed the style of music he writes as "Rocktronic". His work has appeared in various media, including the Spike TV program The Ultimate Fighter.

Klepacki is currently the audio director of Petroglyph Games, where he scored Star Wars: Empire at War. Klepacki was contacted to score Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, but was too busy with Petroglyph to take the project, and declined to mention the offer. Klepacki composed three songs, including "Hell March 3", for Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3 by EA Los Angeles. His solo CD entitled Viratia is packaged with a comic he helped produce.

Already a professional drummer since age 11, Klepacki expanded his musical abilities to compose his own music during high school.  He combined this musical drive with his early knowledge of computers and video games, which led him to his first composing job for the game developer Westwood Studios straight out of high school.  By 1992, Klepacki composed the music for the first Real-Time Strategy game in history, “DUNE II”.  In 1995, he pushed the limits of music in the game industry in what would become one of the biggest game franchises, “COMMAND & CONQUER” (aka C&C). The original score for C&C transcended norms of video game music. The music style of the C&C score had strong cross-over commercial appeal, resulting in the score meriting its own stand-alone soundtrack. Moreover, he won the PC Gamer Magazine award for Best Game Soundtrack for “C&C: RED ALERT”. In 2012, its main theme "Hell March" was ranked #7 of top 100 video game themes of all time by Computerandvideogames.com.  While working for Westood, Klepacki composed for other notable titles including “The Lion King”, “Blade Runner”, “Monopoly”, “Lands of Lore” and “Dune 2000”.

During the year 2000, Klepacki expanded into the television and film industries. He began licensing music for various TV networks after releasing several of his independent albums via his website and digital distribution. Since 2003 to present, his music has been regularly featured on the “ULTIMATE FIGHTING CHAMPIONSHIP” programs on Pay-Per-View, Spike TV, and FOX Sports.  In 2007, he scored entire shows for HDNET FIGHTS and INSIDE MMA. During 2011 to present, his music has had recurring placements in several dozen shows including America’s Got Talent, Top Gear, and Pawn Stars.

In 2004, after the consolidation of Westwood Studios, Klepacki became promoted as the Audio Director for the game developer “PETROGLYPH” to provide original scores and audio direction for “STAR WARS: EMPIRE AT WAR”, which to date is the best-selling Star Wars video game in history. Since then, he has maintained his role as composer audio director for all of Petroglyph’s games.

In addition to his career in video game, film, and television, Klepacki has been an active live performer. He has toured and performed on drums with such established acts as: The Family Stone (feat. Rock & Roll hall-of-fame inductee Jerry Martini, and Phunne Stone), Tina Guo (world-renowned Grammy nominated cellist), Vince Dicola (Rocky IV, The Transformers: The Movie), Asia (feat. John Payne), Lou Gramm (Foreigner), The Rock Pack: featuring vocalists John Payne (Asia), Steve Augeri (Journey), Fee Waybill (The Tubes), Kelly Keagy (Night Ranger), and Buck Dharma (Blue Oyster Cult).   

Klepacki also guest performs as a guitarist / composer with symphonies around the world for the shows Video Games Live and Games in Concert, and has been a panel speaker for conferences such as GDC, AES, PAX, and MAGFest among others, as well as guest blogging for Audio-Technica. In 2019 he launched a successful full production show of “FRANK KLEPACKI & THE TIBERIAN SONS” performing the best of his Command & Conquer catalog on select dates.

Currently, Klepacki is the full-time Audio Director for “PETROGLYPH”, owner at “KLEPACKI PRODUCTIONS” and the touring drummer for “THE FAMILY STONE”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frank+Klepacki">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.