From website, 1998

Frank's Enemy is a Christian band, based in Miami, Florida. They play all kinds of "-core" music (hard, grind, etc) sometimes trying to do them all at once. For their troubles they've been kicked out of secular clubs twice and have been barred from several churches, been called "satanic" by at least one irate parent and caused several youth groups to pack up and leave at a beach concert. They also enjoy a rabid local following and have ministered boldly, fearlessly and personally at their shows. Their insane live presentation has drawn verbal comments of amazement from the likes of Steve Rowe of Mortification, Jason Truby of Living Sacrifice and Keith White of Jesus Freaks. Bands that are not known for being easy listening themselves these days. 

Besides sharing the stage with the aformentioned bands, Frank's Enemy has played with bands such as Crashdog, Strongarm, Nonpoint Factor and the Clergy. They played Michigan Mosh 1994, embarked on a short national tour in 1995, played the Mosh Fest again in 1996, and took a small tour of the southern US in early 1997. Later in 1997, they embarked on another short tour and played in both Texas Rockfest ’ 97 and Corenerstone ’97. They had played regularly in the South Florida and Tampa Bay areas since the band's inception in 1992. Their recorded output consists of a CD/cassette release entitled FRANK'S ENEMY, put out in 1994, on Not Silent. This was preceded by a demo, QOHELETH, released in 1993 also on Not Silent. The band's second CD, called NEOBLASPHEMIES, was released on Cling Recordings, along with a punk cassette EP called NEVER MIND FRANK'S ENEMY HERE'S LOOGIE SOUP. The second CD's two singles, Torturer (featured on Rowe Production’s MASSIVE FREQUENCY OVERLOAD compliation) and Hanging On A Tree charted significantly in the Pure Rock Report's loud chart. The band's third full-length CD, ILLUMINATION, is set for release in late 1998. 

Frank's Enemy started as a one-man project with Julio Rey recording some songs on his 4-track with his drum machine in 1990-1991 (as Julio's previous band, the Lead, was in its final stages), and putting the results up for sale in newsletters. One thing led to another, and Julio met Marc Golob when looking for a bassist for another project called Global Warning in late 1991. Global Warning was destined for failiure due to inablility to make schedules mesh. Julio asked Marc a) would he be willing to play the material on the demos b) did he know a thrash drummer. The answers were a) Yes b) Yes, Alex A. So Frank's Enemy started, and had been going strong since 1992. 

The ride ended in December 1997 as Julio and Alex played their last show with the band. Julio retired to start a family and Alex left to get married. 

Update, 2007

Marc intended to continue with the band, along with new drummer Ben Thacker (who filled in for Alex on the January 1997 tour). An attempt at a new lineup in early 1998, with Jed Brewer on keyboards and Sprite on guitar, failed to click after several rehearsals and one gig.

Since then, Frank's Enemy has reverted to a one-man Julio Rey project, with the 2002 release of the Enraged EP online. Later that year, Frank's Enemy contributed one track (a collaboration between Julio and classical keyboardist/vocalist Deborah Levi) to the Brutal Christmas compilation.

As of 2007, Julio has been writing new material for future Frank's Enemy online releases.

-Julio (writing in third person) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frank%27s+Enemy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.