There are two musicians called Fred Thomas, with a recording history, one active in the USA and the other in the UK.
 
1)  is the probably the biggest member in Michigan's indie movement. Originally from Ypsilanti, Fred bases most of his music from the nearby city of Ann Arbor. He is the founder/leading member of Saturday Looks Good to Me, and is well known for his previous membership in pop-punk band Lovesick, and the "broken folk" group Flashpapr. 

Fred has written songs to be produced under a solo title, as well. His songs are not only inspirational, but his melody and guitar lines are soothing, sweet, and noteworthy of superb composition.

Fred Thomas, the most amazingly kind person, who has been in many influential Michigan bands, re-located to Portland, Oregon to work on his experimental project "Boundless/Countless."
In the summer of 2007 he moved to New York City.
He has moved back and forth between New York and Michigan a few times since then and currently resides in Michigan.

2) Fred Thomas (ARAM) studied at the Royal Academy of Music and is one of London’s most sought after multi-instrumentalists and composer/arranger/producers. A member of the FIRE Collective, he is known for his breadth of musical styles as well as for specializing in creative re-interpretations of J.S. Bach, with albums on Odradek, The Silent Howl and in 2019 on ECM.

In 2018 Thomas worked with Brian Eno on the latter’s forthcoming album. He has also appeared or collaborated with Pierre-Laurent Aimard, Jordi Savall, Jarvis Cocker, Ethan Iverson, Benoît Delbecq, Elina Duni, Tamara Stefanovich, Leo Abrahams and Olivia Chaney, as well as record labels Harmonica Mundi and Realworld.

He works regularly with the National Theatre and Shakespeare’s Globe. He teaches at Trinity Laban, is published by Spartan Press and Edition Wilhelm Hansen, and has produced albums for many artists internationally. His most recent compositions were performed internationally and at the Royal Opera House.

www.fred-thomas.co.uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fred+Thomas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.