French disco-house producer Fred Falke first rose to prominence by collaborating with Stardust co-producer Alan Braxe on a series of 12"s on the Vulture Music and Kitsuné labels, most notably the synth pop-inspired 2003 hit "Rubicon." These tracks were collected on Braxe's 2005 compilation The Upper Cuts. The duo became in-demand remixers, completing mixes for Death from Above 1979, Kelis, Goldfrapp, Röyksopp, Justice, and many others, until ending their partnership in 2008. Falke also began working with German house producer Kris Menace, remixing his 2004 single "Missile Test" (as part of duo Menace & Adam) and guesting on his 2006 single "Fairlight." 

Falke released a few solo singles and EPs, starting with 2006's "Omega Man," and most of these tracks were collected on his 2011 full-length Part IV, released by Kris Menace's Work It Baby imprint. Falke has been far more prolific as a remixer and producer than a solo artist, adding smooth disco guitar and electro-house beats to tracks by a variety of pop, rock, R&B, and dance artists ranging from Hot Chip and VHS or Beta to Ke$ha, Sia, Katy Perry, and Lana Del Rey. He has also co-written and produced songs for several British pop stars, including Ellie Goulding, Florrie, and Will Young.

Falke started out as a bass player around 1995 before turning his hand to production work in the late 1990s. His first record, a collaboration with Alan Braxe named Intro, which sampled The Jets 1987 hit Crush On You, was released in 2000 on Vulture Music.

The pair would form a very productive partnership releasing a handful of singles and becoming in-demand remixers for the likes of Goldfrapp, Röyksopp, Kelis and Justice. The partnership would last until 2008 when they went their separate ways. In addition, he has collaborated on various other productions with artists such as Savage, Miami Horror and Knightlife. 

Fred Falke is now an in-demand remixer in his own right and has produced remixes for a number of mainstream rock and electronic artists. Falke has reworked songs from artists as diverse as Little Boots, Gossip, U2, Annie, Grizzly Bear, Ladyhawke, Lykke Li, La Roux among many others. Falke has also worked with Xenomania. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fred+Falke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.