There are multiple artists with this name:


1) A rap group from Long Island, NY
2) An Emocore band from California, USA.
3) A Grindcore band from Bali, Indonesia!
4) A Progressive Metal from Kioto, Japan.
5) a prog Metal band from London, UK

Bios:

1)  Freewill is a rap duo made up of Mage Mortician and Meth Mouth. Both members are natives of Long Island, New York. In 2016, Freewill released their first EP,  The Influence. It featured their single Supah Ignant which received positive feedback. In 2017, they released Lost In A Void. Within the same year they released their third EP,  Mud. Since then, they have released numerous singles such as Handlebars, Double Vision, Zipperwave, 45, Duzi, Narcan and Slapu.

2) Freewill were an emocore band. They recorded a demo in 1988, and an LP for Wishingwell records later that year called "Sun Return". Lost & Found records released the CD version of the LP in the early 90's, and that is the only release available, since the LP never came out.

3) FREEWILL since November, 2003 tried to played grindcore, although as a beginner grindcore on Bali - Indonesia but will fighting and competing until the last blood. The characteristic of songs is the "microsong", lasting only a few seconds or minutes. The vocal style is "ranging from high-pitched shrieks to low, throat-shredding growls and barks. In some cases, lyrics may not even exist. The lyrical themes, often take from social, politic, nature, environment, and a primary focus that happened on this earth.

4) Shunsuke Yagi : keys
Masahiro Lee : Guitars, keys
Shingo "Sin" Uchida : Drums
Hisashi "Syo" Nakao : Bass

5) Freewill were formed after the demise of the much-loved Casual Affair. Singer Mark Colton and guitarist Mike Mishra wanted to move into a much heavier direction, and with the addition of Steve Tuckwell (ex-Jackal) on bass, Luis Parrish (ex-Traitor's Gate) on drums and Jon Evans (ex-Kick) on keyboards. They burst onto the scene by supporting Final Conflict and Galahad at The Standard, Walthamstow, and were immediately asked to support Galahad again at the first ever prog gig to be held at Whitchurch Red House. Along the way they misplaced their keyboard player, and just got heavier. They released a single demo tape, and were getting quite a following, but Mark's antics had been seen by a fledgling outfit called Ad Hoc, and they asked him to join. The name of the band changed to Chequered Past, and shortly thereafter became Credo, which is how they still play together more than 20 years later.  The demo, 'One', contains "Skin Trade" - lyrics written by Mark Colton and Graham Younger one very boozy night in Twickenham, and later used by Credo. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/FreeWILL">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.