There are multiple artists under the name of ''Free Ride''.

1) Metal(core) band from Zagreb, CRO
The band was formed in 2011. Every member of the band plays an instrument since elementary school so it was natural that they should all wind up in bands sooner or later. The "no name" band at the time (Chicha, Ante and Marko) joined to jam and started to cover famous Heavy Metal songs. Free Ride was born. The bassist's brother Ivan soon joined as a second guitarist. Drived by Chicha's and Ivan's ferocious riffs, Ante's thunderous drumming and Marko's solid bass lines the band plowed through heavy metal anthems and decided to get serious. After a few weeks of searching for a singer, the band stumbled upon Pavao by sheer accident. A versatile, classically trained musician and a talented singer filled the spot perfectly. Months after the band had build up a decent repertoire of cover songs. The chemistry was there, but original songs were missing. After making three songs the drummer of the band brought outside help. Ante brought in Marin, an older metalhead and writer to help the band grow. He contributed with his musical and textual know-how. Since then the band kicked into 2nd gear, had plenty of shows and made 20 songs over the course of 8 months. Serious rehearsing schedule paid off. In mid 2009 the band entered the studio to record their debut studio album. The album featuring well over 70 minutes of material was completed in february 2012.

Pavao Fabijan Medvešek - Vocals
Ante Rašić - Drums
Kristijan Markušić - Guitar
Ivan Tokmadžić - Guitar
Marko Tokmadžić - Bass
Marin Bušić - Keyboards

Feel free to contact Free Ride: freerideband@live.com

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/freerideofficial

2) Can't find biography for the band on the first picture with 3 dudes. If someone knows, put some biography. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Free+Ride">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.