A butterfly's flutter in Brazil may lead to a hurricane in Texas" 
"Frequency of Butterfly Wings" (F.O.B.W) is a band formed in 2009 in Tehran by Ashkan Mousavi (guitarist and vocalist) and Josef Habibi (Drummer).
In their earliest days, the band started with covering several alternative/rock songs which after a while lead to the creation of a song named "Ayrin". The song was considered to be the turning point in the bands progress music-wise.
The first Demo album released in 2010 under the name of "Butterfly Effect" which included eleven tracks and reflected internal concerns and thinking stream of the members.
The band performed their first unplugged performance in 2009 which included songs from "Butterfly Effect" album and several covered songs from other bands.
Abbas Pour Azizi joined the band as the bassist in 2010 the time the band recognized what exactly they want their music to be look like. They preferred their genre to be so close to atmospheric and after auditioning several lead guitarists, Soheil Ershadi officially joined the band.
F.O.B.W took it to a more serious level in 2011 and released a song named "Cinnabar" to be the first after the demo album.
Josef Habibi in the late 2011 left the band for personal reasons.
Frequency of butterfly wings officially released its first EP called "Weight of Existence" in the early 2014. The EP consisted of five tracks. Sepideh Habibi, performed as a female vocal in three tracks. 
In 2014 everything's changed, Soheil & Abbas decided to leave the band cause their own personal reasons & replaced with "Mehdi Mansouri" (Guitars) band decided to work more Atmospheric with elements of Electronic music, In 2015 another EP album released by the band called "Viable" that included 3 track, Ashkan and mehdi also made their first music video "viable" in 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frequency+of+Butterfly+Wings">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.