Brighton 5 piece Friday Night Hero started 2009 with serious intentions. They signed with Capitol East Road and wasted no time in recording their debut album entitled "tourist in your own town" with Hilton Thiessen (U2, Killing Joke).

Having performed live on the BBC, been featured on BBC 6 and BBC Southern Counties, selected as ‘Band of the Month’ and ones to watch by Total Guitar Magazine, supported artists like the Rifles, Alabama 3 and the mighty Reamon, and performed for the NME. Plus with being chosen as finalists at the prestigious Indy Music Awards for ‘Best Live Act’, it is clear they mean, and sound the business.

Their debut album "tourist in your own town" is out now...

INDUSTRY QUOTES

“There is definitely something beyond cardigans and telecasters with Friday Night Hero. This band has something brilliant and it’s totally sharp, and totally clever”
(Mark Chadwick – Levellers & Beautiful Days Festival)

“Strong songs, good melodies and an engaging live show that will have you begging for more. Friday Night Hero have got it all.”
(Guy & Andrea - Breakfast Show, Juice 107.2 FM)

“The band’s big sound is a textbook lesson in everything you need to chime with festival audiences stretching miles back in the great outdoors. With national radio already sitting up and taking notice, it shouldn’t take much to nudge them into to the inevitable bigger and better things.”
(Sarah Maybank – Penny Black Music)

“Influences of Editors and The Killers in a set combining strong, crisp riffs set over flowing keys, and vocal tones that left the crowd hanging off their every word.”
(Surface Unsigned)

"Faster is one of the finest tracks I've heard this year. You just want to put it on over and over again. It mixes energetic rhythms and instrumentals that can only be described as interstellar. The rest of the album tracks are fantastic with interesting lyrics and catchy melodies. They produce a sound that's perfect for summer."
(Paul Richards – Noise Makes Enemies)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Friday+Night+Hero">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.