Formed by two of the greatest musicians and friends of Pope John-Paul II, Fried Pope saw the day when singer Nachtimlich von Kaiserheim was called by that said pope at work. The pope told him he wouldn't be able to go to the strippers with them as he felt into a frying sink. Kaiserheim replied that he didn't care and hung up. But that's when he saw the light.

It was too trippy, even for Kaiserheim, so he set his underwears in fire, which in turn gave him the idea of founding a band as a tribute to his dying friend. Fried Pope was the result. He then called his friend, the notorious Leather King, and asked him if he would like to play the guitars for his band. Of course, the Leather King would say: "Fukk yeah man! JPII deserves this!" Soon after, Kaiserheim asked Finster if he wanted to join in and he accepted! Later that night, Alouqa contacted Kaiserheim on MSN and asked him if she could join as a drummer. That's how the basic lineup was completed. It was the 13th of May 2007.

While at a Krushem show, Kaiserheim met with his friend Renowar who asked if he could become a lead guitarist in the band. While Fried Pope wasn't searching for another guitarist at the time being, he agreed anyway, telling him he would appear in shows subsequent to the release of their first demo, and he would probably appear on the second demo as well.

After the early departure of bassist Finster (before any jam actually) he was replaced with Kaiserheim's childhood friend Tr00fyon the bearded. Later, due to a heavy scedule on her part and the fact that she was hard to reach at the time, Alouqa was replaced by Tr00fyon on the drums. Later, a new bassist, Mastre, joined the band for a couple of months, then left and was replaced by the original bassist, Finster...

Long story short, after a lot of changes in the band's lineup, Fried Pope is now ready to offend crowds all around the world!

Shøcking! is Fried Pope's demo album. The launch was made on November 21 of 2009 though it became available only the 26th. It is available for the whole world to hear now, so order your copy ASAP before there's none left!

The rest will soon be written in blood. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fried+Pope">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.