Taken from the official site:
"1991 - From Depths were born from the ashes of the thrash-death band Electrocution. The founders, Nocturno (guitars/vocals) and Stormanger (drums). with Lord Verminard (guitars/vocals) and Amon (bass) give life to a very personal and extreme music, a mix of horror and symphonic atmospheres, dark/gothic passages and black metal.
1992 - ‘Dark Maze’ is the first recorded song and it is published in a metal compilation ‘Damage of Power’. After this release, the name of the band starts to be known in the underground thanks also to the great interest of the fanzines, that welcome to it with enthusiasm.
1993/1994 - After ‘Dark maze’, the band records two promos, that make From Depths name know also in Europe and above all in Norway. In the meanwhile the keyboard-player, Frosen Sun, joins the band (before the keyboards passages were recorded by Nocturno), introducing new elements and influences in the From Depths music.
In these years the band plays many concerts. The live activity becomes one of the highlight of From Depths with their shocking shows full of fire and blood.
In the meanwhile, Amon leaves and from that time the bass parts will be recorded by Nocturno and Lord Verminard in the official releases while in the live shows played by session musicians.
1995 - From Depths publish their first official release, the 12”, ‘The Burning Eyes’, with two songs + intro and outro. 1000 copies are printed and are sold immediately without promotion and distribution from the label, demonstrating the very good fame of the band in the underground. The new songs show a great growth of the band that joins symphonic black metal with gothic and doom, death metal with heavy metal. ‘The Burning Eyes’ consecrates From Depths as a ‘cult band’.
Besides in these years From Depths form together other bands the Italian Inner Circle, linked to the well-known Norwegian Inner Circle.
1996 – After ‘Dark Maze’, many labels (also the well-know Osmose Production) start to be interested in the band. At the end, From Depths sign a record deal with Necrotorture Records and begin the recording of the first full length: ‘De Profundi Clamavi’.
1997 – In the first months of ’97, ‘De Profundi Clamavi’ is released. The 1000 printed copies are sold in a very little time without any help from the label. The album presents a very personal style with its perfect mix of symphonic-horror black metal, gothic, dark, folk and medieval music, all featured with black screams and the addiction of growl and clean vocals of different types (dark, folk, gothic, female voices). The lyrics deal with occultism and mythology and the first song is completely in Latin language.
The magazines and fanzines welcome to the cd with great reviews both in Italy and Europe (5/6 Metal Hammer, 4,5/5 Metal Shock), praising the original style of the songs. The band supports the album with many gigs with great results but Lord Verminan starts to loose interest in the music and leaves From Depths.
1998 – After the split everyone in the band decides to take different ways even if Stormanger, Nocturno and Frozen Sun know that one day the creature From Depths would be arisen again more destructive and devastating than ever…
2005 - So in the cold winter of 2005, the time is right and From Depths were born again, with the addiction of a new element, Lord Hisinar (great bass player and powerful vocalist) giving life to new devastating songs where the destructive force of killing guitar riff, the powerful drumming and the violent and aggressive screams joins with the symphonic-horror atmosphere of the keyboards.
The story goes on, assuming more and more dark and raw features..." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/From+Depths">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.