Hailing from Buffalo, NY From This Day has emerged from a tough scene which is known for producing top notch bands such as Every Time I Die, It Dies today, Buried Alive, and the likes of Snapcase. Though there has been no lack of talent coming from this scene, From This Day exceeds the high expectations of many in Buffalo’s tough underground community, proving that they are far from “just another chip off the old chopping block”, as they continue to raise the bar as did the bands that set it once before. After their formation in early 2004 and their first show with Cannibal Corpse and The Black Dahlia Murder, it didn’t take long for their electrifying buzz to spread. Since then their popularity has only grown as they have gone on to play shows across the United States with many of the nations biggest acts including Dead to Fall, Psyopus, If Hope Dies, and the Dillinger Escape Plan. After a solid year of proving their worth on stage in their home town and on the road it was only natural and strongly encouraged by fans, that the band get into the studio. In early 2005 the band met up with Doug White (Watchmen Studios) (Psyopus, Kalibas, It Dies Today, Every Time I Die, Earth Crisis, etc.) to put out a self titled EP. The EP was just what the metal scene needed and just what their fans wanted. It didn’t take long for the word to spread about the band and for the band to sell out of their first batch of EP’s.

Not long after the band was added to the roster of the Rochester, NY based Hegira Records. In early January of 2006 the band released it’s debut full length entitled Proverbs of Ashes. Full of high energy, raw emotion, structured guitar parts, brutal breakdowns and blast beats, the album proves to be a “must have” in any collection! As sales continue on a steady rise, this album is on its way to becoming one of the top metal albums of 2007. The album has also burst into the international market after the band completed a very successful two week tour across China this past summer. With their talent, work ethic, genuine enthusiasm and love for the music, as well as a great record and solid label backing them every step of the way, the guys from From This Day are ready to rock audiences everywhere!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/From+This+Day">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.