ABOUT FROM THE NORTH:

There are two bands called From The North.

1. A grunge band formed by surviving members of Malfunkshun with Shawn Smith on vocals. But correctly tagged it's Kevin Wood & From The North. Album: Malfunkshun Monument

2. Black Metal band from Finland.

From The North was born in the year of 2002 in Oulu, Finland. The band was formed by Ettra718 (drums) and Ewereth (guitar). In the beginning the band was under various band names until it became From The North after a while. The first line-up was finally Ettra718 (drums), Ewereth (lead guitar), Raaq (nowadays Warmonger) (guitar), DrataghJ (bass) and Naragth (vocals). In the beginning, From The North was playing harsh music influenced by extreme metal, black metal before all. From the North started to play their murderous art for some years until Naragth left the band due to different point of views with the band. FTN was seeking the follower of Naragth for a long time without having any contact. Nowadays Naragth has completele left behind all the metal-circles. Then, in spring, in April of 2005, the man called Caine Corax was very interested of joining FTN. After more or less shitty rehearsing sessions the band accepted him and nowadays Caine C. is permanent vocalist of From The North. Caine C. was formerly known from band called At the Sky. He played drums for this band almost year, until the band split up in winter of 2005 (however nowadays being active) Then, in the times of winter of 2005-2006, From The North decided to go and record their first official demo. "Bestia Brumalis" was later released by band himself, achieving versatile reactions in the underground. In the end of the same winter, Ewereth decided to step aside from FTN-horde due to his lack of interest of black metal. The follower of Ewereth was later found by the man named Darksmith who was later kicked out of the band because of his different visions and difficulties of FTN and black metal in general (the band also found him more METAL than BLACK). After that the hunting of the second guitar player finally came to nothing. From now on FTN will go on with four members only, however using live session members, for the present remaining nameless, for additional guitar for the upcoming gigs.

The whole idea of From The North's music is to create darkness in various ways. With the crawling slow songs to remind the wanderings of old dying worm, or with brutal, discontent and primitive pieces to breed twisted visions of the furious evil-possessed beast.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/From+The+North">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.