From Monument to Masses was a politically-charged post-rock band which was founded in San Francisco in late 2000. They have released four albums to date, the latest full-length of which was released through Dim Mak on March 10th, 2009.

The group came together in late 2000 when Matthew Solberg (guitarist, vocalist, programmer) and Francis Choung (vocalist, percussionist, drummer) met through an online message board for local musicians. The two began playing together and connected with Sergio Robledo-Moderazo (bassist, keyboardist, programmer, vocalist) who also had connections with Steve Aoki who was the main frontman of Dim Mak records - the record label they would sign to shortly after. Instead of searching for a lead vocalist, the band decided to implement samples of various media sources into their music showcasing the members' political and social concerns with the modern world. Combining the fluid arrangements and structures of post-rock (one thinks of a more upbeat Mogwai or Godspeed You! Black Emperor), along with the standard principles of post-hardcore, the band has gained critical acclaim for their approach to instrumental rock. The band is still currently signed to Dim Mak records. The follow up to 2003's groundbreaking The Impossible Leap in One Hundred Simple Steps was a album containing covers and different version of their songs, as well as two new tracks, titled Schools of Thought Contend. For the next four years From Monument to Masses toured massively, throughout America, Europe and Asia. In 2009 they released Beyond God and Elvis as a single, and in March released  On Little Known Frequencies. They played their final show on August 28th, 2010 at the Great American Music Hall in San Francisco, California

The original lineup:

Matthew Solberg - guitar, loops;
Sergio Robledo-Maderazo - bass guitar, keyboards, samples;
Francis Choung - drums, keys, programming.

http://www.monument-masses.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/From+Monument+To+Masses">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.