From The Throne is a is a five-piece metalcore band from Florida (http://www.myspace.com/fromthethrone). The individuals in From The Throne strive very hard for excellence in their music, as well as having as much fun as possible. Most of From The Throne's songs are based off of terrific movies made in the late 80's and early 90's. Dan Deinhart (lyricist) creates vocal rhythems that sometimes grab more attention of the listener than that of the music and sound story telling. With his rock/scream like voice, it's much easier to hear what he is saying rather than some vocalists who just shoulnd'nt have lyrics at all. On top of Dan's scream, is Nico Santora's (guitarist/backing vox) flowing, Evergrey influenced singing vocals. The reason for From The Throne's singing is for catchy melody that has listeners humming singing parts almost like a commercial tune. It creates remembrance in particular songs, and has fans coming back for more live shows to sing along. The guitar and bass guitar players, Mike Pupillo, Nico Santora and Drew Deinhart (bass), play a huge part in From The Throne. Again, just like the singing, the guitar parts are very memorable. Sometimes From The Throne will spend days on one riff to ensure its rememberance. In most songs, Nico Santora will kick a solo's ass under a shredding rhythem sections played by Mike and Drew, and then Mike will kick its ass harder jumping in on epic double lead while Drew's bass flows under completing the solo sections. On top of all this, is the incredible, Justin Pupillo (drums). At only 15 years of age, Justin Pupillo provides unique style and insanely fast hand and feet speed. His deadly accuracy and precision is what holds the band together during live shows. His influences include, Chris Adler (Lamb of God), Mike Justain (Unearth), and Dream Theater's Mike Portnoy. All in all, From The Throne strives to be the best they can be. And loves all of the support that comes from fans. Let metal live... And thy name be From The Throne.

The band is currently working on a full length album entitled "Restoration" and will be finished tracking hopefully by October 2007. Album art is being considered as well as more merch.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/From+the+Throne">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.