In Late 2006, long time friends, guitarist Curt and Drummer Chris of Sunland/Tujunga Ca. HAD A VISION. A vision to create something new in the music world. With both having extensive knowledge of metal music, they wanted to mix everything together and start a new sound. All they needed was a whole band.

After a few auditions, Chris and Curt added their second guitarist Darren (Curt’s cousin) and very soon after Vocalist Shaun. At this point, the band had agreed upon the name Cold Mourning. On the look out for a bass player, the 4 piece started writing.

With the finishing of their first song MURDER FOR THE MASSES, FTV had friend Jason join in on bass (an excellent all around musician) former guitarist of the now disbanded CONDEMNED TO SUFFER and current Drummer and founding member of RESURRECTING JUDAS.

After 3 months of constant practicing and writing, the group entered the Studio in April 2007 to record their first 3 song demo which included songs:
1. MURDER FOR THE MASSES
2. EMBRACE THE PAIN
3. FROM THE VOMIT

Soon after the Demo was recorded, the group was informed that another band had been using the name COLD MOURNING and had threatened to take legal action if they did not stop using the name. Facing their first fast approaching upcoming show, the band had decided to change the name to one of the track names off the demo…

After a few shows, Bassist Jason had departed from the band. Now back to a 4 piece, the group continued to build their reputation playing countless shows all over Los Angeles. Every weekend was booked for the group. FTV played venues such as Paladinos, The Cobalt Café, The Whiskey and so on.
During this time, the band continued to write until they got to the point where they were ready to record their first album. In mid 2008, FTV entered the studio and recorded a full length album with Curt, Darren and friend Danny taking over on bass duties.

In the end, the album was never finished due to problems with the studio and their technicians. At the end of 2008, Guitarist Curt had to put the band on hold for personal issues. Now with an unfinished album and a break for the band, things were looking bleak for FROM THE VOMIT.

In late 2009, the group re-formed and started practicing again. With so much time off, everyone was rusty! It took some time and lots of effort but after a while everyone was better than ever and ready to go. Shortly after re-forming the group, another long time friend Mike joined the group to play keyboard. Shortly after Mike put aside the keyboard and picked up Bass duties.

With a full 5 piece, FROM THE VOMIT was ready to kick some ass on stage! Booking their first show in almost 2 years, FTV rocked Angels Roadhouse on May 8, 2010. Having a slew of shows over the past year, the band has been having a great time and bringing new fans into the mix as well. More recently, FTV played a show called NOYZ FOR TOYZ in which they raised over $500 dollars for the Toys for Tots program. They also booked shows at other popular venues including The Whiskey in Dec. 2010 headlining with Desecrate.

So far in 2011, the group is focusing on finishing their first Full length album early this year and is going to continue writing new material for a second album to possibly be released sometime in 2012. FTV is still booking shows between everything.

If there are anyone (and we mean anyone) who wants us to play for them at their back yard party, Bar, Club or whatever, let us know and we will do it! We will play for beer! Let us know you support us and add us as a friend and comment on our pics. Check out our posted songs on our web page: www.fromthevomit.com

Thanks for the support! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/From+the+Vomit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.