Frostbitten Kingdom was formed in Turku, southwestern Finland, during the summer of 2004 in purpose to create grim mix of melodic black and brutal death metal. Strongly influenced by acts like Dissection and Immortal, the sound ended up really close to it’s paragons in Scandinavian black, 
as the effect of US-style death metal grew even vaster. Rapid blastbeats, fast guitar work and 
growling vocals blended with screams became vital parts of epic songwriting style.

Two years passed by before a solid line-up was found. After a few months of composing, 
arranging and rehearsing Frostbitten Kingdom entered Noisecamp Studio to record 
“Through Nightfall Storms and Sunless Dawns” in the very beginning of January 2007. 

The next work, “Towards the Battlefields” MCD, was released in April of 2008.
Fresh material was another step towards American death metal as the influences of bands like 
Deicide and Immolation were more exposed. 

In September of the same year, Frostbitten Kingdom recorded their second full-length album.
New album, titled “Obscure Visions of Chaotic Annihilation”, was unleashed at March of 2009. 
With new commander behind the war battery, material took a giant step forward on the second album. Around this time Frostbitten Kingdom also toured club venues of the cities of Finland again and again, doing some shows in Sweden as well. 

Next to the live shows, the year 2009 was also full of rehearsing for the recordings of 
the third full-length album. Including only the most crushing brutality that far, 
“Infidel Angel” was finally born in February of 2010. Recording deal with No Sign of Life was signed a week after that.By this point, the rawer sound of the early material was long gone and replaced by more professional production and much tighter playing. Following the creation of the "Infidel Angel", Frostbitten Kingdom played as much shows as possible, including openings for bands like Bal-Sagoth, Solstafir and Venom.

In spring 2011 Frostbitten Kingdom took a break from playing live shows. It was time to focus once again on new material. The years 2011 and 2012 were filled with writing and rehearsing. New songs were still brutal and freezing, but simultaneously the more exposed influences of classical music and glam metal gave more melodic nuances to the fresh creations. Fourth full-length album "The Winter War Symphony" was finally finished in December 2012. No Sign of Life agreed to release the album in the following spring. After couple of delays of the album publishing by the label, members of the band read from a magazine that the label was sold. The new owners of the label were not interested of "The Winter War Symphony". Following this, the band also lost bassist and guitarist. In spring 2014 the surviving members published the album as a promo and gained some positive attention with it on media. Shortly after starting to seek a new label, Wormholedeath contacted Frostbitten Kingdom. Without hesitation, the band signed a worldwide deal of digital distribution of "The Winter War Symphony". Album will finally be out in 25th of November.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frostbitten+Kingdom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.