Frostfang (formerly Megalith) is a Traditional Heavy Metal / Thrash Metal band from Saint Petersburg, Florida.  Jared Caprio is the primary composer and lead guitarist.  Nick Harasz is the drummer and assists in arranging the music.  Lucas Harasz is the lead vocalist, bassist, and lyricist.  Jonathan Konja is the rhythm guitarist.

Social Media
 Official Site
 Reverbnation
 Facebook
 Youtube
 Bandcamp
 Twitter

 The band was formed at the St. Pete Music Factory (formerly The Rock n’ Blues Academy) in 2009 when Nick and Lucas Harasz were in search of a guitarist.  Curtis Crosley join the band as the rhythm guitarist and lead vocalist.  Shortly after this, Jared Caprio was introduced to the band and became their lead guitarist.  At that time Megalith covered songs from Metallica, Iron Maiden, and Black Sabbath.  They had their first gig at The Blues Ship in Ybor City in the late summer of 2010.  Few local gigs followed and in the beginning of 2011 Curtis Crosley left the band, leaving the vocal duties to Lucas Harasz.  With the absence of a second guitarist the band recruited Geoff Boyajian as their rhythm guitarist in 2011.  The quartet played a few gigs including one at Shorecrest Preparatory School’s Relay for Life and another at the Sloppy Pelican Bar and Restaurant on St Petersburg Beach.  Geoff left the band in late 2011 and was soon replaced by eleven year old Jonathan Konja who played his first gig with Megalith September of 2011 at the Ringside Café, in St. Petersburg Florida.  The band played their first solo show at the Kahuna's Bar and Grill in St. Petersburg FL on May, 11th, 2012. In March of 2012 Frostfang began writing original songs. Jared, Nick, and Lucas often meet to develop song ideas.  They have since recorded an eleven song demo at the local Zen Recording Studio.  They used to meet weekly at the St. Petersburg Music Factory to rehearse but now meet in the garage at the Harasz residence.  A few of the bands that Frostfang has shared the stage with are as follows.  Saliva, C.R.O.W, Hang Em High, American Fix, At Shovel's End, Devil's Waiting Room, Siege of Malakand, Arbitration, SinGod, Civil Action, Deathtruck, Kheiron, The Rival Within, Forgotten Foundations, Tribulations, Break This Course, Pages of Perses, Tomorrow's Answer, Forge With Blood, Slykk Wikked, Progressive Chemistry, Under Fallen Orders, Orange Gravity, Judicator, Xenomatic, DRVN, Stones of Madness, and The D.O.O.D. Frostfang is influenced by Heavy Metal bands from the 70’s, 80's and 90's such as Metallica, Megadeth, Slayer, Iron Maiden, Black Sabbath, The Sword, Mastodon, Amon Amarth, Elder, Sleep, Asteroid, Pantera, Graveyard, Motörhead, Cannibal Corpse, Saxon, Overkill, Exodus, and Testament.


Current Members
Lucas Harasz - lead vocals, bass
Jared Caprio  - lead guitar
Jonathan Konja  - rhythm guitar
Nick Harasz - drums, percussion

Past Members
Curtis Crosley - Lead Vocals, rhythm guitar
Geoff Boyajian - rhythm guitar
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frostfang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.