Frozen Dawn is a Spanish band that performs a cold old school black metal, in the style of the first black metal bands that emerged during the 90s in Norway andSweden. Its main influences are bands like Satyricon, Dissection, Darkthrone, Dark Fortress, Watain and Necrophobic. Its members have dedicated over ten years to promote the extreme metal scene in Spain having played & playing in bands like Greenfly, Spiritual Intervention, and many others.

Frozen Dawn's music is basically inspired from a conceptual basis, Winterland. A land permanently immersed into a cold winter in which the forces of nature fight each other. A world where the supernatural meets the mystical, the worship of the moon meets the darkness and elements. A world so cruel and merciless as winter.

The first album of the band is entitled “The Old Prophecy of Winterland”. The whole album verses, through all the tracks, about the story of this land, its landscapes and of its individuals and entities that roam through Winterland.

Frozen Dawn’s Timeline

2006 - Creation of the band during the fall. First gig of the band in December at the Antichristmas Festival" with bands like Haemorrhage, Human Mincer, Hordak, Dawn of Tears.

2007 – Release of the band's first demo entitled "Winds from The North." Several line-up changes make the live activity of the band to be suspended. Writing process is kept alive.

2008 - The band, completely renewed, is back onto stage in Madrid and Barcelona opening for the international bands Necrophobic and Watain.

2009 - Strong live activity of the band, accompanying both national and international bands. The band enters the studio to record their first full length “The Old Prophecy of Winterland” at the Oviedo Studios (Madrid, Spain) during this winter.

2010 - The album has been mixed by Espartaco Valdes Velasquez at the Sparta Recording Studio (Caracas, Venezuela). The first single, extracted from the album "The Old Prophecy of Winterland" and entitled “Cold Souls”, has been self-released during the spring. The band is currently looking for a label to release the album “The Old Prophecy of Winterland”. Some gigs around Spain. Opening gig for Belphegor and Vreid in Madrid.

2011 - On th 30.03.2011 "The Old Prophecy Of Winterland" has been released by the spanish label Mighty Hordes Productions.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Frozen+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.