For years now a familiar band in the Dutch metal scene, FrustHatreD started making a name for themselves in '97 when the line up changed with the arrival of drummer Jos (ex Mandator, Vortex). It was then that the band's music really started to take shape. By playing throughout Holland extensively, the band developed their own sound. More groove and aggression were added and resulted in the music which has become typical for these Dutch Metal Heads. The current line-up took shape in '00 when Tineke joined the band as their bass player. She would prove to be a very positive musical addition to the band which led to more balanced and aggressive songs. 

Undertone; debut album '98
Undertone was released towards the end of '98. It was very well recieved by fans and press alike. Early reviews of the Undertone album by Holland's leading metal-mag 'Aardschok' stated; 'What's striking is the tight performance of the band which makes that they really stand out between the many releases in this genre', 'FrustHatreD will make sure your eardrums are activated' and 'Where do they come off presenting themselves in such a tight and violent manner?' The band has conquered a lot of ground due to these raving reviews and their energetic live performances. 

Second Album 'Full Head-on Damage' '04
On April 19th 2004, FrustHatreD's second album was presented during a release party at Docx Rock Cafe, Assen, Holland. It was a special release party since there was no actual CD to present. The band decided to put Full Head-on Damage on their website, for everyone to download for free. Musically Full Head-on Damage contains more melodic songs, although the intensity and aggression remain the same as ever. More varied songs are the result of the long period the band has spent performing and rehearsing together. To get a feel for Full Head-on Damage, turn to the FrustHatreD website and download it for free.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/FrustHatred">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.