The rise // 
It all started after the big Millenial changes in the Western World. A warrior Nymph, saw her chances to be able to call forth the creatures of the forests of Northern Limburgea and North-Eastern Brabant (Le Pays de Quque) to serve her. This lone wandering forest dweller known as the Cadavre came with her majestic frontal bags and enchanting beauty, seeking the essence of evil through the mimicry of wild beasts who could spill her slime upon humanity. This massive Demon took sadistic pleasure from instilling crazed terror inside a self-hailed cult of men, once thought to be aspiring geniuses. Six indivuals from all corners of the glades were forcibly raised from noble craftsmen, into these malevolent sorcerers who are entitled as Fuckez-Vous. These sick creatures, all with their own speciality, enjoy nothing more than sowing dissension and hatred within the forsaken world. Fighting for the cause of the Cadavres means, spread the foul plague and denying the false essence of the light. Darkness is what guides the noble, yet dark warriors that call themselves Fuckez-Vous.

The recruitment //
Near the end of the second year of the New Millenium and just before the big battle at Mount Elzendoom, the men of Fuckez-Vous, who once cultivated a quiet society upon the world of Haenk, were corrupted by the chaos magics of the Afro curlfausts «Le Zeebillion» and long haired mystical String Basher «Godefroy», and formed into a voracious, unstoppable horde of blood spurring animals. The first who was recruited by the two and who provided visionary leadership in guitar parts, was found in the powerful «Zorro». This Hooded Hunter stripped himself of his once demonic influences and stands ready to combat with his evilness he acquired out of his deep roots and merged in with his insatiable tones. Next, using the ancient, pounding magics of the drums, the powerful and highly aggressive creature «Cousque», will stop at nothing to ensure that the sounds Fuckez-Vous provides will hatch into heads like rusty old Battle Axes from the ancient wars. The fifth pion in the Cadavres army, is a long dready Huntsman known as «Mevrouw van Grinsven», hailing from the swamps of Ottersum. With tight bloodlines connected to the recruiter «Godefroy», this wreckless beast pledged his savage services to the band. Being not the sturdiest of a fighter, this «Mevrouw van Grinsven» is a tenacious Bass hammering man, who does not forsake his timeless anguish. The last to be added, had to be the swift «La Daffe», a fierce, yet dark identity, capable of hurling his deadly notes at distant worlds. «La Daffe» provides invaluable cover fire for the whole arsenal of sounds of Fuckez-Vous. He defies any horse alive. After these six were combined, the vast fellowship of Fuckez-Vous was now complete. Yet, many days and nights of work would follow to let the men complete their tasks for The Cadavre.

Achievements //
As the plague encroaches on the lands, more and more humans fall prey to Fuckez-Vous` mental control and life-draining sickness every day. In this way, Fuckez-Vous has swelled the local scene which now revels in slaughter and mayhem. Fuckez-Vous employs evil. In these times of great peril, Fuckez-Vous will - some day - unleash 9 hell grinding songs to obtain their twisted and mutilated objectives. Entitled «Dans l`arse de la Cadavre», this album will constantly drip blood behind its tail and will smell like a disease ridden slaughterhouse. The tracklist eats the flesh of the first final revealing show, side by side with the Clans of Dark Day Rising and Flesh Made Sin, on the 6th dusk of the final month in the New Era`s third year, the order is maintained, yet improved with lumbering and rotting sounds which have never reached a living soul before. With this record, Fuckez-Vous will delve into the secrets of the world, terrifying the world with their lust, for good. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fuckez-Vous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.