Full – Containing all that is possible; filled; complete in every detail; completely qualified, empowered, or accepted; having body and depth
    Armor – A defensive covering worn to protect the body.
    (Webster’s Dictionary)

    With the above definitions in mind, Full Armor--a combination band, ministry and multi-media presentation -- could not have chosen a better name.

    “We are living proof that freedom and victory can be obtained in life through the Gospel of Jesus Christ, regardless of background, opposition, or negative circumstances,” emphasizes David Hirsch, Pastor of New life outreach International and founder of Full Armor.

    The mandate upon Full Armor is both inspired and directed by the Holy Spirit: To combine a high-powered concert event with a mature, scripture driven and Christ-centered message for this generation. One of the key reasons behind the effectiveness of this outreach is that the people presenting it are not disinterested researchers quoting cold statistics.

    “There is no issue that this ministry has not dealt with head on,” explains Pastor Hirsch. “Whatever age or circumstance, from peer pressure and minute experimentation with drugs and alcohol, to full blown addiction, occult, witchcraft, suicide, broken homes, racial problems, abuse, gang violence, or bringing believers to a deeper commitment to Christ. We have seen up close and personal the constant life changing power of the Holy Spirit and can testify to the fact that we are more than conquerors through Jesus Christ our Lord.”

    Interwoven into every Full Armor concert event are genuine testimonies, a powerful life-changing message and a time of worship that truly engages the absolute presence of Almighty God.

Copyright © 2012 New Life Outreach International All rights reserved. 4716 Harrison Road Fredericksburg, VA 22408 Phone 540-834-2331  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Full+Armor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.