Fun Factory is an Eurodance group from Germany.

The good time dance machine par excellence was how one critic described Fun Factory - probably the most accurate, characterisation ever made of this group. With their high-explosive mixture of pop, dance, rap, techno and reggae elements, they have achieved international acclaim and their singles can be found in the charts the world over. Tracks such as Groove Me (# 1 in Israel Dance Chart, # 5 in Israel Air play), Take Your Chance (# 3 in Israel Dance Chart), Close To You, Pain (# 30 in Israel, # 5 in Israel Air-play, remixed by ATB) and most of all I Wanna Be With You (once again remixed by ATB) and also Celebration made their way into the top ranks of all important at Media Control and Dance Charts. And not only in Germany, Fun Factory tracks have climbed high in the charts in Canada, England, Spain, Sweden, the Far East, Finland, Poland, France, Italy and in the USA as well, and have made the group one of the most remarkable European acts internationally.

Musical team : Bulent Aris, R. Kesselbauer, Toni Cottura, Rodney Hardison 
Vocalists : Balja, Marie-Anett Mey, Annett Möller

Original Fun Factory (Toni Cottura, Rodney Hardison, Marie Anett, Balca, Stephan Browarezyk) albums:

1994: Non Stop! The Album
1995: Close To You
1996: Fun-Tastic
1997: All Their Best

The Next Generation Fun Factory (Al Walser, Annett Möller, Tiger 1) albums:

1999: Next Generation
1999: Next Generation '99
2002: ABC Of Music Released in Japan only

The Third Generation Fun Factory (Douglas, DGS, Diana, Jenna) albums:

2008: Be Good To Me (CD-Single)
2008: Fiesta De Samba (CD-Single)
2009: Storm In My Brain (not released yet)

In 2015 Fun Factory did a comeback with former members, fronted by Toni Cottura, Ski, Balca and Steve.
They released a new brand album titled "Back to the Factory", including new hits like "Turn It Up" and "Let's Get Crunk".

Your #1 Fun Factory Source! fan website
Fun Factory on Facebook
Fun Factory on Twitter
First Fun Factory Fan Myspace
Official 2007 Fun Factory website <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fun+Factory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.