Funeral Dusk composes neo romantic music. It is inspired by all the common practice period of the western music, but especially by the great romantic composers of the XIX and XX century. It features pieces for symphonic orchestra, piano, harpsichord, chorus, or all at once.

The man behind Funeral Dusk is Tomás Molina, a Colombian artist who is also a philosopher. Philosophically he is fond of Schopenhauer and Plato. He plays, composes, and records all Funeral Dusk's music.

Funeral Dusk is highly romantic in the musical sense but also in the philosophical one. There are pieces that try to explain deep truths that are not reachable –or so Tomás thinks- with the sole reason. They are so deep that even words fail to describe them. He thinks that the basic structure of the universe flows in us as in everything else. If one looks deeply into oneself, one will discover the essence-structure of the Universe, and then one can discover what is really true and eternal. These deep truths are only possible to communicate to others through the art, and specially, through music. This is the most important objective of Funeral Dusk. Music becomes a sort of messenger of the truth - it reveals the mystery of existence.

The music is sad and melancholic because the mostly pessimistic philosophy, influenced by Schopenhauer, that the author maintains. When one sees through the veil of the Maya (ignorance) one will see the wicked Will that is behind the perpetual suffering that life represents.

Funeral Dusk is influenced by the following:

Composers: Johann Sebastian Bach, Scriabin, Cherubini, Prokofiev, Albinoni, Rameau, Corelli, Astor Piazzolla, Debussy, Dead can Dance, Palestrina, Josquin Desprez, Monteverdi, Vivaldi, Penderecki, Chopin, Mozart, Lully, Saint Saens, Dvorak, Richard Wagner, Elend, Arcana, Tchaikovsky, Verdi, Johannes Ockeghem, Edward Grieg, L. Couperin, Saint Colombe, Marin Marais, Mussorgsky, Ravel, Liszt, Rachmaninoff.

Players/Directors: Martha Argerich, Jordi Savall and Hesperion XX, Ton Koopman, Andrew Lawrence-King, Arthur Rubinstein, Cristopher Hogwood, Leif Ove Andsnes, Glenn Gould, Helmut Walcha, Herbert Von Karajan, Perlman, Le Cameriste, The Zagreb Soloists, Harnoncourt, Riccardo Muti, Seiji Ozawa, Barenboim, Ashkenazy, Horowitz. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Funeral+Dusk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.