Funeral Anthem, a Neo-Classical metal band from Dhaka, Bangladesh, was formed during the mid of 2007. Apart from solo harmonization, accelerated drum beats and vociferous bass works, the band’s main aim was perfection and pure dedication towards what they wanted to and what they are doing.

During early 2007, guitarists Arunav Shuvro and Tawsif Haider, used to be lead guitarist of two separate bands, came up with the insane idea of harmonizing leads in a single band. They were soon joined by bassist Tanvir Kaium, and the trio started jamming several heavy metal tracks, forming a heavy metal band called Metalloids. Competing with each other to develop their personal skills, they were soon getting obsessed with Extreme Power Metal and Symphonic Metal and the three decided to change their genre. Then the quest for finding a keyboardist with the capability of playing with raw speed as well as delivering alleviated key feels began. After several searches and auditions, all that the members got was frustrating results. Finally after one year of laborious search they found Maruf Rashid Khan.

Then vocal Faiyaz Hossain, finally agreed to lead the band by burning his vocal chord and thus FUNERAL ANTHEM was finally finding its shape and was later joined by Nayeem Abdullah Oyon as the drummer who could detonate drum blasts just like the way the founder members wanted. With a complete line-up, FUNERAL ANTHEM was ready to explode. With perfection in the horizon, the time is right for this band to make it big.


Band influence:
Funeral Anthem is highly inspired by several symphonic and power metal bands such as Children of Bodom, Dragonforce, Symphony X, Sonata Arctica, Angra, Nightwish etc. They were also inspired by other bands, of different genre, like Iron Maiden, Cacophony, Circus Maximus, Dream Theater, etc.

Apart from their influences, the main theme of Funeral Anthem is about after life , the dark side of vitality and love for the country.



Individual Influences and gears:

Tawsif Haider
Influence- Yngwie Malmsteen, Michael Angelo Batio,Rusty cooley,Chris Impellitteri,buckethead,Alexi Laiho,Niccolo Paganini,Mozart,adam fulara,faraz anwar(mizraab),oni hasan(warfaze).
Gears- Esp Ltd MH100, Ibanez RG 770, POD II, Dean Markley and Ernieball strings, Dunlop 1mm picks.

Arunav Shuvro
Influence: Jason Becker, Michael Angelo Batio, Yngwie Malmsteen, Slash, Zakk Wylde, Dimebag Darrell, Mohammed Suicmez, Michael Romeo,Niccolo Paganini, Mozart.
Gears: 1957 Goldtop VOS Gibson Lespaul, Ibanez RGT- 42DX, Line 6 X3 Live Guitar Effect Processor,Line 6 POD 2 head console, Dean M10 guitar amplifiers, Dean Markley strings and Planet Wave 1mm picks.

Maruf Rashid Khan
Influence: J. Warmen, Tuomas Holopainen, Pinella, Jordan Rudes.
Gears- Roland Juno G Expandable Synthesizer and Workstation (Fantom X Engine),
Yamaha PSR 403,

Nayeem Abdullah Oyon
Influence: Thomas Lang, Derek Roddy, George Kollias, JoJo Mayer, Jordan Mancino, Chris Adler, Jason Rullo, Yanic Bercier.
Gears- Pearl Export Select kit with Paiste Sound Technology plates, Iron Cobra and Pearl pedals, Pearl and Tama hardware, Vic Firth, Promark, Tama, Vater sticks.

Tanvir Kaium
Influence- Steve Harris, John Myung, Joey Demaio, Felipe Andreoli, Yngwie Malmsteen.
Gears- Yamaha BB-615 Active 5 string bass, TGM 5 string bass guitars, Ibanez BTB-200 Active 4string bass, D’Addario bass strings <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Funeral+Anthem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.