Funeral Oath is a Finnish pagan metal band. It's influences lay deep in nordic music, both folk and metal, and especially black metal. Detailed biography can be read from below.

After Funeral Oath was formed at 1999 by Qraken and Kromm, it took a couple of days to find Bael and Thyrm to join the line-up. At the beginning Funeral Oath's material was very much influenced by death metal. Soon Kromm left the band and rest of Funeral Oath continued with Qraken on vocals and guitar, Thyrm on rhythm guitar and Bael on drums. 

At some part of year 2000 the rehearsal place they had been playing in withered away due to laziness of the owners and unprofessional service of the equipment. Funeral Oath decided to split up, yet was reunited next year when a better rehearsal place was found. At that point Funeral Oath changed the style of their music radically, taking influences from black- and viking metal more than from death metal. 

Meanwhile, a side project of Qraken split up, and from that project Tuomas joined the band to try his bass playing skills, yet was kicked out pretty soon for the attitude he had didn't quite fill the requirements of the band. From the same side project came Idunn, who is still responsible for the keyboards of the band. After Tuomas left, Teuvo jumped in and from him it took a bit longer time to get fired, the reasons were partially same: Besides the small attitude problems Teuvo had too much other projects that took too much of his attention off Funeral Oath. Band continued without a bassist and had hard times with guys going to army one after another. At that perioid all stood still, no new songs were made and not much rehearsal happened. 

It was at autumn of 2004 when Funeral Oath had begun the recordings of their first demo Kun Kirves Ristin Veisti, when Kromm returned to band as a bassist, thus filling a black hole that had lurked the band since the beginning. Unfortunately, Kromm came in a little bit late to practice the songs for the demo, and therefore Qraken played the session bass on that recording. 

Three gigs were accomplished at the beginning of 2005, and they all took place in Lappeenranta. 

At spring of 2005 a new rehearsal place was found. It provided the band much more time for practicing and three new songs were composed during the summer. Winter brought new recording sessions.

At spring of 2006 funeral oath released their second demo, entitled MMVI. Rehearsal place was replaced by a better one, and summer went by composing new material.

The band's name was changed to Thiermes in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Funeral+Oath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.