From the grim frostbitten northlands of Canada comes the one man horde ' FUNERAL FORNICATION'. The project saw its birth in 2002, when Vultyrous strived to create a project, mainly black metal, but with elements of both pagan metal and thrash. After a handful of demos that gained some minor notoriety, Vultyrous figured that would be all, and put the project on the backburner.

Several Years passed with Vultyrous focusing his efforts into two other bands at the time. It wasn't until 2006 that the deathwinds of Funeral Fornication began to blow again. News of this one man band reached the ears of Triple Silence Records in the UK. Signing Funeral Fornication almost immediately, Triple Silence was destined to release the debut album "Murder Cult Eidolon". Sadly however, due to financial complications, that destiny had to be altered. Triple Silence could not afford to release Murder Cult Eidolon was caused Vultyrous to seek another lable.
 

Two years passed with Murder Cult Eidolon sitting on the shelf, gathering dust. In 2008 Funeral Fornication signed with Funeral Moonlight Productions, a small but strong chinese lable. Murder Cult Eidolon was released! 1000 Units on Pro-CD! However, things were about to change once again. As part of the agreement Vultyrous had with Funeral Moonlight, the lable had agreed openly to released any future albums composed under the name 'Funeral Fornication'. This was to be a lie, for as soon as the deal for 'Murder Cult Eidolon' had gone through, and Vultyrous had received his share of copies for personal distribution, the lable quite unprofesionally severed contact and would not answer any of Vultyrous' emails. Unfortunetely , this did not happen until Vultyrous had already started work on his follow-up release 'Paganheart'. With no lable to released 'Paganheart', Vultyrous continued to work on this release, all the while searhing for an interested lable. In the end, Vultyrous decided to self-release Paganheart. (Paganheart is tentively scheduled for relase in June 2009)

The whole situation up until this point left Vultyrous feeling quite uninspired and uncaring for the future of Funeral Fornication. It was then that Vultyrous was approached by the black metal goddess 'Artep', who asked Vultyrous to be the new lead vocalist and guitarist for 'Artep'. Accepting, Vultyrous stated clearly that it would not be the end of Funeral Fornication, though in his heart he was not sure. Then at the start of 2009, something strange happened. The original idea for Funeral Fornication was no longer Vultyrous' musical ambition. His musical tastes had drifted towards a more depressive, almost ambient black metal sound. Feeling renewed in his unholy faith for Funeral Fornication, Vultyrous took up arms once again, this time refusing to back down. He began an intense search for a lable interested in releasing a new Funeral Fornication that was void of Pagan and Thrash elements, and more depressive sounding.

Pouring the darkest reaches and cobwebbed corners of his heart into the new Funeral Fornication material, it didn't take long before some heads began to turn in response. Almost overnight, Vultyrous found a home with Hypnotic Dirge Records who were on the same page with Funeral Fornication's new sound. June 18th, 2009 saw the release of Funeral Fornication's third and darkest album, "Solitude and Suicide" on Hypnotic Dirge Records

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Funeral+Fornication">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.