Funebrarum was formed by guitarist / doom legend, Nick Orlando (Evoken, Putrifact, Asmodeus) and vocalist Daryl Kahan (Disma,   Abazagorath guitarist, Citizens Arrest, Assück) in April of 1999 with the goal of creating heavy old school death metal. With fellow Abazagorath and Evoken member, Dario Derna (also of Meat Shits, Infester) joining on drums, the band recorded their debut demo "Triumphant Ascent" later that same year. A raw and ugly sounding tape which received good reviews from the underground maniacs. Soon after Dario left the band(s) to move back to his home in Seattle.

The core line-up was solidified with the addition of Abazagorath bassist David Wagner providing the subatomic low end. This first line-up was finalized with the addition of drummer Brian Jimenez (Eschaton, Kalopsia). After several months of rehearsal and shows the band then entered the studio to record their "Tombs of Sleeping Darkness" demo, which was eventually released as the "Beneath The Columns of Abandoned Gods" album on Necroharmonic Productions.

After the "Tombs of Sleeping Darkness /Beneath..." recording Brian Jimenez left the band to pursue other interests. Nick, Daryl and Dave continued working and writing new material during this period.

In 2003, with session drummer, Justin De Torre they re-recorded material for their next official release, the 7" EP "Dormant Hallucination," for Midnight 666 Records.

Again Funebrarum received excellent reviews from around the world. Metal Side Zine called the band the "Masters of Old School Death Metal." The following year "Beneath the Columns of Abandoned Gods" would be re-issued by cult label, Necroharmonic Records.

In 2005, drummer Shawn Eldridge (Abysmal Gates) joined putting the band back in the studio. Shortly after, Matt Medeiros (Eschaton, Kalopsia) joined on second guitar. Funebrarum have achieved the strongest and most powerful line-up of the band's history.

In 2007, Funebrarum is ready make their mark on the international death metal scene with their brand of heavy deathmetal. The split CD with Swedish legends, Interment on Conqueror of Thorns Records has been released and already is receiving excellent reviews from around the world.

The band will record their upcoming second full-length album soon which will be released on Necroharmonic Productions in 2007. More releases and more live shows including a European Tour with Interment (Swe) planned for early 2008 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Funebrarum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.