Think you know what FURYON are? Think again!

Since their inception FURYON have been a band who like nothing more than to challenge expectations. Raised on a diet of heavy metal, prog, and classic rock, FURYON mix all these components for a truly unique and contemporary sound. Delivering huge rock radio friendly songs, with technically challenging, yet infectiously catchy musicianship. Dedicated to one sole purpose, making hard hitting songs that will stand the test of time.

From the outset FURYON have been a force to be reckoned with live. Word of mouth meant they soon became one of the biggest draws in Brighton’s busy rock scene, selling out shows at the iconic Concorde 2 venue, usually reserved for high profile touring bands. The blistering power and passion of a FURYON show is something very special to behold.

What separates FURYON from the crowd is the sheer quality of their musicianship. Boasting two truly world class guitarists in the form of Chris Green, and Pat “The Shred” Heath FURYON have few peers when it comes to the quality of their iconic riffs, and jaw dropping solos. Backing them up is one of the tightest rhythm sections the rock world has to offer with the awesome combination of Lee Farmery, and Nickel. Leading from the front is the outstanding vocal versatility of Matt Mitchell, whose emotion drenched voice effortlessly moves between melodic and crunchingly heavy.

In 2009, after a sell out tour, and accompanying EP, FURYON set about the serious business of writing their debut album. The early demo’s reached the ears of US producer Rick Beato (SHINEDOWN, FOZZY), and a powerful and symbiotic relationship was formed. It became obvious immediately that Beato and FURYON were on the same page creatively, so much so that the band flew out to his Atlanta studio to record their stunning debut album the aptly named “GRAVITAS”.

In the enviable position of being in complete control of the masters of an expertly produced album FURYON are carefully plotting their next move. Be sure to check back regularly for updates, as all signs point towards 2010 being FURYON’s year!

www.myspace.com/furyon <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Furyon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.