This page is home to at least eight different artists.

1) The Grim Reapers/Fuse:
Fuse made a little-known album for Epic at the end of the '60s, and is chiefly remembered for including two future members of Cheap Trick: Rick Nielsen and Tom Petersson. The album is an average, perhaps somewhat below average, late-'60s hard rock recording. It looks forward to some facets of '70s metal and art rock in its overwrought vocals, tandem hard rock guitar riffs, and classical-influenced keyboards. It was reissued, with two bonus tracks from a single, by Rewind in 2001.
Fuse was originally the Grim Reapers, and aroused interest from Epic after they were seen supporting Terry Reid in Chicago in mid-1968. Changing their name to Fuse, they recorded a self-titled album in late 1968 under the unlikely auspices of producer Jackie Mills, who later produced The Brady Bunch. The album did virtually nothing, and although they did have enough material for a second album, they would not release another LP prior to their breakup in 1970.

2) FUSE are also a defunct heavy rock band, who formed in Bahrain in the middle east while still at school where they recorded two EP's and a live album (Pretending to be Perfect) before relocating to Edingburgh and released a series of albums with a progressively heavier sound; and a DVD before breaking up in late 2005 or early 2006.

3) There is also a project by Richie Hawtin (Plastikman) named "F.U.S.E" which is tagged here mainly as Detroit Techno. First vinyls by F.U.S.E came out in the early 90s on +8 Records. These singles were famous in that time and had some influences on the noisy technohouse movement.

4) FUSE is electric violinists Ben Lee & Linzi Stoppard. When Ben and Linzi set out to break the mould and push the boundaries they realised they had two choices: to be followers or to show the way with initiative. The latter was the only real option. While following their instincts the band recognised their competition had all failed to conquer the same conundrum - how does a new violin act avoid sounding exactly the same as the one before? Other string acts call themselves electric but often record using acoustic instrument or with no effects which limits them sonically. This narrow path leads to most violin / cross-over string acts covering the same music again and again and in the same style.

5) An alternative metal/rock band from Doncaster, United Kingdom, during the early 1990's. Fuse made a joint vinyl e.p. with Scum Pups on Stayfree Music at the end of the 1993.

6) Fuse is also a swedish straight edge hardcore-band from Gothenburg http://www.myspace.com/fusehardcore

7) An American hardcore band from Fort Lauderdale, Florida http://www.myspace.com/fusepureinfection

8) Fuse was a alternative metal/nu-metal band from San Antonio, TX

9) An International Hard Rock band based in Muscat, Oman.

10) A drumandbass/lo-fi/house DJ, based at Varna, Bulgaria

11) A novice drum and bass DJ & producer based in Tallinn, Estonia

12) A string ensemble from Amsterdam, the Netherlands

13) Singapore hardcore punk band.
https://fusenoise.bandcamp.com/

14) Japanese hardcore punk band from Hiroshima, active in the mid 80's. Alternately known as "The Fuse". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fuse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.