There are more than one band called Fused.


1) Swedish trio that released the album "Audio" in 2001. DJs Max Reich and Samuel Malm started the project, with vocalist Petra Hallberg completing the team. Amongst their most popular releases are "Twisted" and "Saving Mary".

2) Hard Rock Band from Seattle, USA that released their first album in 2004.

3) Rock band from Porto Alegre, Brazil.

The band was born in September of 2004 in Seattle by Xavier on guitars and Jason Stilley on drums. They were both looking to form a band blending the sounds of the 70's metal/hard rock bands, and the new breed of 90's stoner rock bands. After a few months jamming together and putting some tunes down bass player Tim Aynardi joined the duo in February of 2005. Stilley left the band in May of 2005 and Mitch Montes came in on drums a couple of months later. The new line up revived stronger and louder than before, and a few weeks later they decided to go to the studio for the very first time. In August of 2005 their first self titled EP saw the light. There was no turning back now. In October of 2005 Curran Evans answered the ad for a guitar player and got the place completing the final line up and overall sound of the band. The mixing of all the different backgrounds, cultures, musical tastes and generations created a very unique blend of sounds that powered the new band in to new territories. Unfortunately Montes quit the band in November of 2005 leaving the band in a halt again. David Harrison replaced him on drums in January of 2006 and the band got back on track. While getting tighter as a live act during the summer gigs of 2006, they went back to the studio and started recording new original material from July to October of 2006. A more mature and conceptual idea materialized when "King of the desert" was finally released in November of 2006. Fused went on playing every single stage that they could get around Washington State promoting their latest release while receiving a warm reception from the audience, and some good reviews from overseas, but after almost a year and half in the band Harrison unexpectedly quit the band in May of 2007. In June of 2007 death metal drummer legend David Pinochet stepped in and took the fusion to a whole new musical level. 2007 saw the band growing up, playing more live shows while gaining some local recognition, and even doing its first mini tour outside of WA state. By this time the sound of the band had grown and drifted a lot from its seminal years to a more complex, richer amalgam. A new band’s logo was also created. A renewed energy was now pushing the fusion. The band had a short hiatus by the end of the year and re grouped by late December of 2007 with enough new material to hit the studio again. In late January of 2008, the fusion had a major internal meltdown when Xavier parted ways with the old line up due to musical differences. In the meantime, David Pinochet communicated that he was leaving to join another band and therefore relocating to California; however David and Xavier managed to get in the studio in February of 2008, and they laid down the drum tracks for 10 new songs before he left. Undeterred, Xavier went on solo assuming full control of the recording process. These 10 drum tracks would eventually become the seed of a brand new full length album, probably the best ever produced by Fused so far. The history of the band is still being written... 

3) Fused is also a band from the Netherlands. It plays and sing Dutch worship and praise songs, and already released 2 CD's; 'Bereid De Weg' and 'Niemand Kent De Dag'.

4) Fused is also a band from Ontario, Canada. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fused">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.