There are two bands named Futhark.

1) The band was created in Medellín as a project at the end of February of 2002 under the name of "Størmblast", their main lyrical structure are Celtic, Viking and pagan mythologies with a touch of Norse black metal creating a different kind of metal never done in Colombia, by that time they began with the rehearsals and creation of hymns following the path of bands such as Cruachan, Isengard, Bathory, Manowar, Ragnarok (UK), Dimmu Borgir (For All Tid, Størmblast), Burzum, Storm and some other... the name Størmblast was changed to Futhark, because of some other bands using that name. 

After some demo recordings, promotional gigs and many line-up changes, Futhark took a new horizon and left the folk vein in which the project begins… 
They kept the spirit of paganism and diversity in musical composition, but in their songs you will find now less of folk structures, more aggressive guitar riffs and drumming, and bright bass guitar lines very clear, more variety of influences and rhythms which made sometimes hard to label the band in a proper style between one song and another.

New compositions made part of the new own labeled style heathen metal and the idea of a forthcoming debut CD kept clear in mind.
They began the recording  though to be issued at fall of 2004 after the release of the maxi CD Ørlög, but sadly for the band almost all the recorded tracks were damaged in an accident… reason why nor Ørlög, nor For the glory of Vinland Debut CD could have seen the light yet; of this recording they only kept 3 songs, the same songs they’re using in their promo CD-R Futhark plus some live session tracks, recorded to be part of some compilation CD-R in their country.

More promotional shows and new plans in the band coming…Futhark get a place in line to play live in a festival called Metal Medallo 2007 in Medellín, but sadly they must change again their line-up, so a session vocal lead the band by this time and once more by some mockery of destiny they couldn’t be able to play in Metal Medallo 2007; the show had to be postponed 3 times, until Metal Medallo 2008 first show in June 28 unveiling a curtain of expectation, generating good comments between the public who’s waiting for a long time a bigger show of the band.

With the new acceptance in this show, Futhark re-direct their energies for the long waited issue of the Ørlög Maxi CD and the recording of the new material for a next CD, hopefully it will be recorded soon with the voice of the new official vocal of the band.

Their purpose is to form and maintain a band that can be known in the world, show that the ancient pagan wisdom is universal without refusing their multiracial colombian roots. Make stronger the pagan scene and try to unite the small circle of folk fans in their land by their music.

Live:

Through this years Futhark played live to different kind of people and share with bands of different musical styles and ideologies, which doesn’t mean in any form that the band is changing again, they respect the way of thinking and the musical styles that bands play, it doesn’t matter if its rock, punk or metal, they just performed their show were they are welcome to play.

1-September 14th of 2002 at “Antagon bar” in Girardota Antioquia with the bands Martyr (Death Metal), The Army Pentagram (Black Metal) and Lagash (Black Metal).

2-October 18th of 2003, Festival de Rock at  “Placa deportiva Urbanización la Nubia” in Medellín, with some rock and neo-punk bands.

3-November 14th of 2004, 3a Noche de Folclor Celta y Vikingo at “Valhala bar” in Medellín.

4-September 17th of 2005, live show at  Medieval Wars in Medellín.

5-January 6th of 2006, we receive an invitation to play with Orgullo Nacional (RAC) and Última Advertencia (RAC) at “Vancouver bar” in Medellín.

6-September 30th of 2006, we receive an invitation to play with Hvetramannaland (RAC) at “Gato Negro” in Bello.

7-June 28th of 2008, Metal Medallo at “Teatro Porfirio Barba Jacob” with the bands Los Restos (Hardcore Thrash Metal), Posguerra (Hardcore Thrash Metal) and the legendary band Reencarnacion (Metal).

Check the website: http://myspace.com/futharkhorde

2) Futhark is also a Swedish viking rock band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Futhark">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.