It all started in the spring of 2005 when Alex came up with some plans on re-taking the third year on his upper secondary school studies. He wanted to do this just to get in the same class as Mike and Kennie so that they could start a band. After lots of conversations with headmasters and teachers and a whole lot of lies saying that Alex's grades would be so much better he was finally approved to re-take the final year.
Things got serious during the summer break when they got a place to rehearse and the first songs started to shape up. It was early decided that the band should not have front man and hence both Mike and Alex are lead singers. In the beginning Alex was not to keen on singing since he considered himself incapable of doing two things simultaneously but Mike insisted that the band should have two vocalists.

In the autumn of 2005, when the school term started, it was time to choose a project to work on during the last term. Kennie, Mike and Alex had during the summer break decided to start a band and to make a record so that they would get an excuse to be absent from classes and instead work on their "schoolwork".
The time came to choose a name. Kennie came up with "Sound Project", Alex counter attacked under protest with "Rigshaw Riders". Another name that was considered was "One Year Behind" since everyone was re-taking their last year in upper secondary school. Finally everyone agreed on "Future Idiots" on proposal from Alex.
The "V-logo" originates in an early version of a cover that Alex was working on. The temporary name "Rigshaw Riders" was never removed but simply crossed over with a "V" and replaced with the new name Future Idiots.

At this point Future Idiots was mostly a school project. Alex wanted to bring in another guitarist since he did not consider himself capable of handling everything on stage by himself. Kennie was on the same path; bring in another guitarist to enhance the live-sound. However, Mike totally refused. In April 2006 Mike finally yielded when Kennie and Alex wanted to hand the secondary guitar duties over to Jewhan, an old friend to all three of them.

Future Idiots, Sweden's latest rock sensation, was a fact. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Future+Idiots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.