From the very outset of dance culture, and right up to the present day, Brendan Collins, AKA DJ / Producer Futurebound, has steadily developed an almost unsurpassable reputation for tearing up dancefloors on a worldwide scale.

Whether he’s destroying venues such as Fabric, Chibuku Shake Shake and Accelerated Culture, or in the studio, you know what you’re getting with ‘the sounds of the Futurebound’.

Marry these elements to obsessive levels of professionalism, attention to detail and natural technical ability, and there can be no argument: Futurebound IS the finished article.

Born and bred in Liverpool, the cultural and musical epicentre of the North of England, Futurebound’s route to the top of his profession reads like a concise history of dance music. After the first illegal raves he attended in 1989, Futurebound left behind a potential career in football to pursue his passion for dance music, with DJs such as Fabio,Grooverider, Mickey Finn & Top Buzz serving as early influences.

From this, Futurebound secured a home – town residency in 1991, warming up for the likes of Carl Cox, Grooverider and Sasha, his first real break into DJing. Steadily the emerging influence of breakbeats grew on Futurebound, leading him to book names such as LTJ Bukem, Goldie, Ray Keith and 4 – Hero for his own parties in the early nineties, and later lead him to start the notorious ‘X’ events in 1999, some of which still rank as some of most important parties in Liverpool’s clubbing history.

His skills didn’t just stop with DJing and promotion either. Since 1993 Futurebound has been stamping his distinctive, rolling, peak – time sounds on vinyl, initially with local producers. Inevitably however, more high - profile production and remix collaborations followed with the likes of J Majik.Matrix,Digital & Adam-f

With his productions being released on imprints such as Infrared, Timeless, Moving Shadow and Frequency, and receiving heavy support over the years from the scenes hierarchy, the time seemed right for Futurebound to expand his repertoire once again, by infusing his reputation on an entire imprint. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Futurebound">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.