Fuzz is Ty Segall (drums/vocals), Charlie Moothart (guitar/vocals), and Chad Ubovich (bass).

They're heavy-rock lifers and three California-bred dudes who have been refining their riffs and getting weird together since high school. (which wasn't that long ago, actually)

Fuzz was formed in/around 2011 as a collaboration between Segall and Moothart, but its only within the last year that the pair had sufficient time to guide the band out of side-project limbo and into a recording studio. Since then, they have released two singles, This Time I Got a Reason (on Trouble In Mind) and Sleigh Ride (on In the Red). Around the time of the second single, Cosio joined on bass. 

They are not dabblers or dilettantes. Fuzz have flipped through used bins, hard drives, and record collections of the world, seeking out the finest weirdo cuts. The band's self-titled debut LP, Fuzz, which was recorded by Chris Woodhouse (Thee Oh Sees, The Intelligence), dives deep, drawing inspiration from the more esoteric reaches of heavy metal pre-history. There are Sabbath and Hendrix nods, obviously, but on Sleigh Bells you might also catch a whiff of UK progressive blues business like The Groundhogs, particularly when the song quits its 10/4-time intro and reboots into full bore choogle. Maybe you'll even glimpse the ghost of Australian guitar-legend/sharpie guru Lobby Lloyde sniffing around Raise.

The mood is not light. The songs project a state of perpetual paranoia and eroding mental health. 
And as it should be, you know? It's a record for the burners.

2. FuzZ is the first new artist signed to Spectrophonic Sound, the label owned and ran by Squeak E. Clean, music producer and one half of the critically-acclaimed group N.A.S.A. Sparkle Vision is a 23-minute collection of delightfully evil, and strangely sparkly music, meshing distorted funk riffs with 80’s inspired synthesis and heavy psychedelic interludes.

3. A band made up of Rivers Cuomo and Patrick Wilson (both of Weezer). Later became known as the 60 Wrong Sausages.

4. A Japanese band with one album, "Message" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Fuzz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.