FYI Chris is  the moniker of London-based music producers Chris Watson and Chris Coupe. Originally hailing from Manchester, FYI Chris met in South London, being brought together by a community of like-minded music heads. Since their debut release back in 2015, FYI Chris have unleashed a barrage of left-leaning club-focused music through some of the most respected labels on the scene. During those formative years, informal musical collaboration was an integral part of the group of youngsters' social lives, but things became more serious when the pair managed to get their hands on an MPC, the weapon of choice for some of their biggest influences. Jam sessions featuring a rotating cast of friends and family allowed the duo to experiment with a range of different genres and pieces of equipment in an atmosphere that was, in their own words, "not quite a band practice, not quite just hanging out and getting stoned."

Regulars at Peckham’s Rye Wax and often at the helm of the Rye Wax radio show; pre-pandemic, the duo could also be found playing gigs in esteemed underground venues across the globe.

Since then, the duo has barely stopped to catch their breath, with eleven 12"s under their belt and relentless DJ bookings catapulting them across the globe as far afield as Australia. Never ones to rest on their laurels, FYI Chris' artistry has evolved with the rapid degradation of humanity, resulting in the pair's output taking on a darker, more rugged and post-punk-tinged facade. Their penchant for the industrial and macabre sounds of the near future is also evident on the label they part-run with friends from the Rye Wax basement - West Friends, which, along with releasing some of the most bizarre-o dance music out of London in recent years, exemplifies their love for tongue-in-cheek gallows humour. With  their breakthrough release No Hurry / Juliette on esteemed local label Church in 2015, FYI Chris have since released on revered platforms including Rhythm Section, Toy Tonics, Banoffee Pies, remix work for Ninja Tune. The pair also co-run ‘West Friends’, a platform showcasing their own groove-centred repertoire and genre-defying creations by pals. With a friends-and-family ethos and self-effacing humour combined with their raw talent and incredible musicality, FYI Chris are a force to be reckoned with." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/FYI+Chris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.