GOOD Music is an American record label founded by rapper and producer Kanye West in 2004. "GOOD" is an acronym for "Getting Out Our Dreams".

John Legend and Common were the first to have albums produced by G.O.O.D. Music and have received seven Grammy Award nominations between them; Get Lifted with three and Be with four.

Consequence was signed in 2005 through a deal with Columbia Records. In 2007, Big Sean and Kid Cudi were also signed to the label.

In 2008, the label signed Mr Hudson after hearing his debut album with the Library, A Tale of Two Cities.

In 2010, the label signed Pusha T, Mos Def, Daniel Yazdi, and Cyhi the Prynce, who was signed in a joint venture with Akon's Konvict Muzik, with the departure of Tony Williams, followed by Consequence.

In 2011, there followed Nigerian artist D'banj and fellow producer Don Jazzy, and a distribution agreement was made with Island Def Jam Music Group. In 2011, Teyana Taylor, Pusha T, producer Q-Tip & many more acts joined the G.O.O.D. Music group.

Big Sean's Finally Famous was the first album released by G.O.O.D. Music with distribution by Def Jam.

Mid-2012, Kanye West signed former Star Trak/Interscope Records artist Teyana Taylor to G.O.O.D. Music.

Late-2012, Kanye West signed teen producer Kidd Cole and Ryan Mcdermott to G.O.O.D. Music

In late 2011, plans were announced for a Spring 2012 release of a G.O.O.D. Music collaborative studio album, later announced as Cruel Summer. It was to be accompanied by a short film. Produced by West's design organization DONDA and shot in Qatar, the film premiered at Cannes Film Festival.

The first single, "Mercy", was released in April 2012, followed by the video; a second single "New God Flow" was released in July.

After the release of "New God Flow", the album cover was released.

An additional single, "Clique", was released on September 6.

On July 23, 2012, G.O.O.D. Music officially announced the September 4 release date for Cruel Summer; it has since been delayed until September 18, 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/G.O.O.D.+Music">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.