There are 2 bands with the name G.O.R.E.:
1.)A czech grindcore metal band(they write themselves without the last dot)
2.)a finnish thrash metal band.

G.O.R.E. is a Thrash Metal band from Finland.

 It was the spring of the year 2001 when Antti Marttala and Jari Nieminen were spending their time jamming together. As a result of the session their first song, "Victims of Me", was born. That song had such a strong vibe to it that both of them felt they had to take this jamming one step further. So they got Ville Pokki on the bass and Lauri Holm on the second guitar and thus G.O.R.E. was formed.

Summer, 2001. Holm left the band, Pokki became the singer / bass player and the trio was now ready for their first ever G.O.R.E. gig. To have more effect on introducing the band to the audience they decided to play several cover songs from some well known bands (Judas Priest, Alice Cooper, Slayer etc.) and throw a few original G.O.R.E. songs in between. The audience could enjoy the well played covers and get a hint of the G.O.R.E. power that was soon to emerge. Later in the same year their first demo, "Now Is the Time", was recorded. It included all eight G.O.R.E. songs with "Raining Blood", an aggressive Slayer cover, as a bonus track.

The first half of the year 2002 had to be seized from all band activities as Nieminen had an accident that heavily injured his hand. As everyone should know, it's hard to play drums without fingers. Luckily the doctors were able to put his fingers together well enough so that he was again able to beat the hell out of his drums.

Then became the fall of 2002 and it was the time to record their second demo. "Demo '02" was financed by having a fund-raising. They got enough money to make the five-song demo sound way much better than their first no-budget demo did. This was a huge achievement to the band at the moment. G.O.R.E. grew their experience by participating in Turku Bandstand contest and later in the summer of 2003 having another gig at the same fest they had their first live show two years ago. Later in the same year Jussi Tomukorpi joined to the band as a second guitarist.

After this the band started to have a bit more aggressive and faster tone to it but the overall style and sound wasn't yet peaked to what it is today. The year of 2004 brought up a new project. G.O.R.E. filmed a no-budget music video of "Faces" which was directed and edited by me, the writer. While the video was somewhat amateurish and didn't show the band in a tone they are today, it had a hint of things to come in the form of The Bleeding Man. The rest of the year G.O.R.E. spent having a few gigs and writing new songs that ended up being so strong that those just had to be recorded. So, it was the time to do a new recording.

The beginning of the year 2005 was spent in doing a full-length album which by the lack of time and money ended up being an EP called "Antagonistic Anthems". By the release of the EP, G.O.R.E. finally had set up their visual style and as a result their live shows were even more brutal and aggressive. Three weeks before a gig in the summer of 2005 Jarmo Perälä joined the band to play the bass as Pokki had decided to focus on the singing performance. They increased their amount of live shows and were a five-member band for over a year until the 2nd guitarist, Jussi Tomukorpi, departed in August, 2006.

The beginning of the year 2007 the quartet spent working on a brand new 3-song promo CD called Bitter Reality which brought the band to a whole new level. G.O.R.E. will continue hitting fast and pounding hard the listener's mind into oblivion.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/G.O.R.E.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.