There are various artists with the name 'Gabi':
1) Brazilian artist: A new musical concept. She came to rock, with its black humor against other, less talented singers, which is the best, bursting with its fierceness. Gabi arrived quietly and wreaked havoc with her first single "Today", and released her first EP "Concept." With her first single and album, both released in 2009 and successors of the EP "Concept", it was no different: "Sexy Poker" reached # 1 on iTunes and 97 weeks was up, a roaring success. With the release of "Decline in 2009," Gabi has gained more and more popularity. The album has sold 18,999,000 copies worldwide and was named the best album of 2009. And it couldn't be different, right? This woman exudes talent! [...] And as the success of "Decline in 2009" was huge, Gabi back with the first single from their third album, "Strength". That includes the super special participation of Xuxa Meneghel and Poota. A new era is coming! And watch Lady GaGa and Kesha, Gabi promises to end it with you. Yes, rock it, Gabi. After all, it's so much better without protection.

2) New York artist Gabrielle Herbst: Gabrielle’s formal training began at an early age, studying Balinese dance and gamelan in Indonesia while learning both the clarinet and piano. Herbst continued her training at Bard College where she studied voice and composition under the tutelage of Joan Tower, Zeena Parkins and Marina Rosenfeld. Her work has already been showcased at Robert Wilson’s Watermill Center, as well as Roulette, who in 2014 commissioned and premiered her first opera, Bodiless.

Herbst’s experience writing for chamber orchestra and mixed instrumentation inspired her to develop a repertoire of short-form, vocal-centric compositions under the name GABI. These were driven by solitary explorations in early 2013 with a dual-track loop pedal. The nine songs composed for Sympathy embrace the vast potential of the human voice as instrument, story, and landscape.

Sympathy was recorded in the studio where she was joined by her band Matthew O’Koren (percussion), Rick Quantz (viola), Josh Henderson (violin), and Aaron Roche (electric guitar / trombone). With production by Daniel Lopatin (Oneohtrix Point Never) and Paul Corley (Oneohtrix Point Never, Tim Hecker, Ben Frost), these open-ended sessions yielded a suite of compositions that capture that Gabrielle’s metamorphosis into GABI via an intimate exploration along the edges of song-form. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gabi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.