Gabriel Mindel Saloman is a Vancouver-based musician and artist, who has been performing experimental, conceptual and freely improvised music for over 15 years. He is best known for his work as half of Yellow Swans, a Portland-based noise group that has released over 50 recordings and toured internationally over the course of their 9 year existence. He currently performs solo as GMS and Sade Sade, an investigation into temporal abstractions, conceptual sound and gestural noise. Within this work is a parallel concern with sound art as both liberating practice and praxis.

Saloman works as an artist, writer, curator and composer. He currently collaborates with Aja Rose Bond under the name Diadem, as well as the Lower Mainland Painting Co. Since 2003 he has collaborated with Red 76 on such recent projects as “Fellow Travellers” for Manifesta 8 in Murcia, Spain; “Surplus Seminar” at the Walker Art Center; and “Counter-culture as Pedagogy” for CCA’s Wattis Institute for Contemporary Art. Past collaborations have included ‘Second Home’ – part of the San Jose 2008 Zero1 Biennial; ‘The Battery Republic’ which was part of Creative Time’s ‘Democracy in America’; and  CCAD and the Bureau for Open Culture’s “Descent to Revolution”. Together with Sam Gould of Red 76 he is also the creator of the No War U.S.O. initiative, and leads the semi-annual Liberation Seder.

He has contributed writing to The Journal of Aesthetics and Protest; “….” (Dots and Quotes); The Journal of Radical Shimming, issue #5 of which he co-edited; The San Francisco Bay Guardian; and other independent publications. In addition to essays and journalistic work, he has written and performed a series of lectures exploring Epistimology as it relates to conspiracy and is mediated by technology. Saloman was also a co-founder of Collective Jyrk, an arts collective from Portland that produced zines, music recordings, experimental films, animations, an online gallery, and curated several exhibitions and events.

Saloman is currently pursuing his MFA at Simon Fraser University’s School for the Contemporary Arts. His current focus is the intersection of his practices in sound and relational artworks, particularly based around research relating to contemporary folk music and the resurfacing of communistic trends in contemporary North American politics. He is also developing work around the intersection of mass media and esoteric knowledge in the form of his “Pop Occulture” series; furthering his creative investigation of divination and composition in collaboration with Aja Rose Bond as Diadem; and is developing an ongoing series of audio/video compositions using YouTube as instrumentation. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gabriel+Saloman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.