Self-proclaimed “planetary riff architects” Galaxicon combine the crushing weight of sludge and doom, the bleak atmosphere of US black metal, and a classic/prog rock approach to crafting memorable aural journeys. Their approach to music is loud, destructive, and experimental, yet also meticulously constructed to convey something more than just "heavy." Songs such as "Rapture of the Deep" and "Innkeeper" offer crushing riffs, atmospheric blackened melodies, and dynamic shifts in phrasing and syncopation, while "Pyramid of the Sea" and "The Key, the Gate, the Light" showscase a fast, chaotic side of the volume-worshiping power trio. Galaxicon has shared the stage with a number of respected bands in the scene, including SAVIOURS, ZOROASTER, UNSANE, RWAKE, INTRONAUT, HOWL, THE ATLAS MOTH, DARK CASTLE, BLACK TUSK,  and more. 

Galaxicon initially self-released their debut album, Old Gods, in digital format and a short-run, one-time-only CD pressing. Clocking in at just over 39 minutes, Old Gods features six tracks of experimental sludge/doom. It was met with acclaim from critics throughout the underground scene. As demand continues to grow, Galaxicon is now exploring options for a vinyl release of Old Gods in the coming months as they have recently begun work on their second album.
 
Old Gods was recorded and mixed by Alan Burcham (The Unbeheld, Crowlord, Hosoi Bros) at The Secret Team Headquarters in Memphis, TN, and was mastered by James Plotkin (Isis, Sunn0)), Khanate) at Plotkinworks. It features art design and layout courtesy of Memphis-based group Enfectious Erf (Howl, Lo-Pan, The Sword).

Recent praise for Galaxicon:

"Five tracks in and they haven't really repeated themselves once so it is no wonder this was mastered by James Plotkin, that dude usually knows talent when he hears it and Galaxicon have more talent than most. The release ends on the longest track 'Innkeeper' and it is another killer blending of the complex and the simply brutal. One thing I really appreciate about this album is the wonders that get unleashed on each spin of the album. The songs are deceptive in their complexities but they are also straight-forward enough to be very catchy. Finding that middle-ground is never easy but Galaxicon seem to do it easily. This is a "must-hear." ....9/10." Doommantia

"Check this release out, crack the top of a bottle of Bourbon if that’s your thing, and whip up a doom in your living room with this one! Hot tip: start with track no. 1, ‘Serpent Savior’, crank up the volume and let the doom hit you!" - Rip it Up! Webzine

"The blackened sludge is progressive in its shifts, and you envision a molten river approaching a quiet village." - Heavy Planet

"They've got a nice ethereal doom sound reminiscent of Unearthly Trance and slower High on Fire. But the fun doesn't stop there, they've got some death metal vocals that sneak into the mix and tear shit up; the best example is mid-way through their track 'Rapture of The Deep'. This young band from Tennessee shows a lot of promise so keep an eye on them. Pound some Jack and blast these jams." - Ahab  at Kickherteathin

Galaxicon is:

Paul - drums/vocals
Shawn - bass/vocals
Ben - guitar/vocals

Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Galaxicon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.