Galvorn was a Melodic Black Metal born as Sugar Suicide in Santa Cruz, Sierra, Bolivia, on March 2004. Two days after their first rehearsal they were already onstage playing on a Sepultura tribute with a very wild response from the audience. The band plays two Sepultura covers and one yet unnamed composition (which later on would be called "El reino de la muerte" (Kingdom of Death), included in the local compilation CD Rock Camba 2).

After a couple of shows, new compositions and several line-up changes, the band participates on the local festival Santa Cruz Rock III, winning the Best Band and Best Singer awards. The prize for the best band was the recording of 8 songs in a studio, which was recorded by drummer Manuel Soruco (all instruments) and Daniel Moreno (Voices) since the other members left the band for different reasons. This was the last line-up change the band has: From the six musicians that won the festival, the only lefts are Manuel and Daniel.

After recording in the studio and not being satisfied with the work, the drummer Manuel Soruco takes the producer role and records most of the record again in his Home Studio.

The result sees the light in July 2005 under the new name: Galvorn, which derives from Galvorn, a dark metal from J. R. R. Tolkien's fantasy book The Silmarillion. The CD is called "Legado de Oscuridad" (Legacy of Darkness) and comes out only one week before Manuel goes to Argentina to study Musical Production. Some time later the national compilation CD/DVD Bolivia Rock Vol.1 is released, featuring the track Lothlorien Pt.2.

Since then they have been working on their debut album (since they consider "Legado..." a demo instead of a proper cd). The yet untitled LP will be the first part of a trilogy of conceptual records based lyrically on the past, present, and future of Latin America, and will feature a 90 piece orchestra. It has an estimate release date of early 2008.


Origin: Santa Cruz, Bolivia
Years Active: 2004 
Genre: Melodic Black Metal  
Members: Manuel Soruco (Drums, Bass, Guitar, Keyboards, Production, Music)
Daniel Moreno (Vocals, Lyrics, Stories) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Galvorn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.