Gandillion is a Female Fronted Progressive Rock band from The Netherlands. 
The original Gandillion line-up was formed December 1996. The band combined elements from metal, progressive-, symphonic- and gothicrock. Gandillion created an own style which was both atmospheric and powerfull. Their music appealed to metal, symphonic- and gothicrock fans. 
October 1998 Gandillion released their debut album "Perrenette Gandillion" for Killer Whale Records.
Weeks before the release of the album Gandillion opened for Landmarq and Marillion at the annual Dutch Marillion fanclub day in Tivoli, Utrecht.
Their performance was so overwhelming that even without the album being actually available, the band sold almost 50 copies.
With a new vocalist, Gandillion is proudly to present the long awaited follow-up, the concept album "The 4th Nightingale", recorded for PMM Records.

A short history... 

In 1996 and 1997 Gandillion recorded several demotapes that together sold over more than 1000 copies. 
It was  the “Perrenette” demo tape that got Gandillion  in contact with Killer Whale Records.
Recording sessions for their debut CD “Perrenette Gandillion” took place during the summer of 1998 at the Excess studios with the help of Hans Pieters.
Weeks before the release of the album Gandillion opened for Landmarq and Marillion at the annual Dutch Marillion fanclub day in Tivoli, Utrecht.Their performance was so overwhelming that even without the album being actually available, the band sold almost 50 copies.
The album was finally released November 1998 and was highly appreciated in media worldwide.
Unfortunately vocalist Femke Feenstra left Gandillion, just when the band was facing several live gigs and was planning to record their second album.
With new Canadian vocalist Robynne Leah, Gandillion did a couple of live shows, ie. opening for Lacuna Coil.
Things did not work out the way Gandillion wanted and at the start of the new millennium Gandillion broke up.
End of story, ...almost!!

April 2006: the original instrumental line-up got together again and immediately started working on new music, the long awaited follow-up to the “Perrenette Gandillion” album.
Times change and so does music. The new Gandillion music sounds punchier, both heavier and more melodic as not to say more progressive and less gothic. As with a lot of music, it is always difficult to put a specific label on it. But if you must, somewhere on the long road  between Marillion, Porcupine Tree and Pain Of Salvation… This might give you an idea of what to expect.

May 2007: Gandillion is signed by P.M.M. Records. A new label from The Netherlands that also signed the Rotterdam-based Symphonic Metal band Android Soul.
Together with Joyce Dijkgraaf as the "new" Gandillion-vocalist, recording sessions for the "The Fourth Nightingale" started days after signing. If all goes according to plan, the album will be realeased December 2007. 

As said, "The Fourth Nightingale" is a concept album. 

In short, it is the story of Robin, a little girl struggling with childhood, adolescence, social and environmental problems on a grand scale and the vulnerability and incapacity of the individual, her journey through life, until finally, she discovers that what really matters…
All the ins and outs (both lyrically and musically) will be revealed on www.Gandillion.com and www.the4thnightingale.com, after the release.

Gandillion is:

Joyce Dijkgraaf             Vocals
Stephen de Ruijter          Guitar
Raymond van Uffelen         Drums
Michel Krempel              Bass
Feiko Withagen              Keyboards

 
http://www.gandillion.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gandillion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.