Gangrenectomy is a brutal death metal band from Catania, Sicily, Italy.  They were by formed by vocalist Gabriele Catania, guitarist Riccardo Cantarella and bassist Alberto Destasio in 2009.   They did not have a drummer during the band's formation, so Catania and Cantarella handle drum programming duties.  The band writes about subject matters that include madness, depravity, disease and gore.   They released one demo entitled Decaying Thoughts of Insane Mentality in 2010 and then an EP entitled Feces of the Gods in 2011.  It is unknown if they were release independently or through a label.  A year after their first EP, they disbanded.  They were disbanded in 2012.

Gangrenectomy came back in 2014, but Destasio did not come back and Gianluca Cardillo joined Gangrenectomy as their new bassist .  With the new lineup in 2015, they released Promo 2015 through the Death Metal Industry label.  As during that year, they released their debut full-length album Abhorrent Necrotic Harvester of Dismembered Human Flesh through the same label that released Promo 2015.

In 2018, they released a four-way split entitledRampagewith Traumatomy, Pit of Toxic Slime & Agonal Breathing.  This split was released through Putrid Coffin Records.  In 2020, they released a couple of more records.  Their sophomore full-length Cannibalistic Criteria of the Mantis through Amputated Vein Records.  Rotting in Absolute Hatred was also released and it was also released by Amputated Vein Records.  That following year, they released a five-way split entitled Unleashing Echoes of Iniquitous Torment with Gorepot, Blastocystia, Texas Murder Crew & Coprolalia.  This was released through Pathologically Explicit Recordings.  

In 2022, they released the Manipulation of Weak Souls single through Rivers of Gore Productions.  They band currently consists of  Gabriele Catania (vocals, drum programming), Riccardo Cantarella (guitars, drum programming) and Gianluca Cardillo (bass).  They are currently signed to that label.

Spotify
Deezer
Bandcamp
Metal Archives
Facebook
Instagram
Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gangrenectomy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.