Gannondorf was forged early 2008 in Escondido, CA. At first it started as a simple idea between friend to make a band that mixes elements of black metal music and video game themes. This idea grew into a full musical project and thus Gannondorf was born. The very first line-up was Daniel Morris on vocals, Ryan Bruno on bass, and Alonzo Larios on Guitar. The early stages of Gannondorf was very crude and off-color. Only having a basic knowledge in recording and very little experience in musical performance, the band started out by recording covers of their favorite black metal songs. Given the heavy video game influence, melodies from their favorite games were incorporated into their black metal sound. Eventually their musical and technical knowledge grew, and they began writing and recording original tracks. Eventually, in March of 2008, their first self-titled demo was released, and much cheers were heard. Without a drummer, though, they remained as a studio-only musical project instead of being a full-on band.


Eventually, their efforts to play live were momentarily rewarded. They recruited the help of drummer, Tony Pitino, who was well-versed in the ways of extreme metal. The three-piece musical project had finally become a four-part band, and their souls were filled with hope in finally playing a live show. Unfortunately, their efforts were seemingly in vain as difficulties between members had prevented them from playing their first scheduled show. After that, it seemed like all was lost, and the four parted; the band had broken up.
But after much meditation, Alonzo and Dan had decided to continue their efforts and kept with their musical project. Eventually, they had returned with yet another demo, Throne Through Time. Their confusion and frustration had been interpreted into their music, making it much more chaotic and introspective.

But soon enough, a beacon of light had emerged, as two close comrades had requested to lend their helping hands to this project. Their recent efforts had brought them a new bassist, Molly Smith, and drummer, Ethan Stouder. The band was reformed, A few shows later due to personal and creative differences, Molly Smith left the band.

From the abyss of lost memories old comrades of fallen death metal band Blood Geyser, Nick(Bass) and Garret( Rhythm Guitar) came in contact with Gannondorf and thus a new sound is created and a new chapter unfolds........Many mooons later thus  Creating a Gravespell from the years of 2011 to 2013....  Legend has it that after years of torment and creative differences Moonsirrom decided to return the sacred realm alone and resurrect the evil that once lurked from within.  

http://blogs.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=blog.view&friendID=97531269&blogID=449420131


Demo
Main download

Throne Through Time 
Main download

Influences:
Mayhem, The Legend of Zelda, Deeds of Flesh, Exhumed,  Bathory, Bishop of Hexen, The Meads of Asphodel , Emperor, Thee Maldoror Kollective, Carpathian Forest,Enslaved,Cryptopsy  Ensiferium, Darkthrone, Equilibrium, The Axis Of Perdition,Opeth, Dystopia and Koji Kondo. 

Lineup:
Moonsirrom - Vocals/Sounds of Darkness
Baby Butcher - Guitars/ Beatings from the Unknown 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gannondorf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.