There are multiple artists using this name.

1. Gargoyle is a thrash metal band from Japan that merge thrash with various folk, progressive and avant-garde elements. Formed in 1987 by Kiba (vocals), Yotaro (guitar), Real Jack (guitar) and Toshi (bass) and Not (drums), the band went through many member changes before gaining guitarist She-Ja and drummer Katsuji, as well as losing Yotaro. The band released their debut album "Misogi" in 1989. Though She-Ja would leave the band shortly after the release of their fourth album "Tenron",  Guitarist Kentaro  joined shortly after his departure and Yotaro re-joined for their fifth album. Yotaro would leave the band in 2001 to focus on his family life, leaving Kentaro as the sole guitarist. Gargoyle have released 14 full lengths to date, along with several EPs and live videos, as well as having started their own music label (First Cell). 

Katsuji also played in Volcano and Animetal. Guitarist Kentaro has played with Takayoshi Ohmura. She-Ja is now playing in thrash metal band Volcano.

2. Gargoyle is a Melodic Black Metal band from Istanbul / Turkey. They have one album called "March Of The Heroes" released in 2007. The band is composed of Melih Pekin Pekinbas on synthesiser, Pelin Pelister Akyurek on the bass and her husband Cem Akyurek on guitars and vocal. The album's main theme is Conquest of Istanbul(Constinople) in 1453. The album is produced by Atlantis Records. 

3. Gargoyle is an Australian hip-hop/rap artist based in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. His debut album "Saintsinner" was released on Broken Tooth Entertainment in May 2008. 

4. A heavy metal band from United States of America  (Portland, Oregon) formed in 1982. They released 2 demos in 87-88 and one longplay in 1988 (Gargoyle).

5. A three piece band (vocalist, guitar and keyboards) influenced by Suede, formed in the mid 90's in the UK (West Midlands). Songs include 'Making Heaven Home' and 'Shape Changer'.

6. A Thrash Metal band from USA (Elizabeth, New Jersey). They released only 2 demos in 85-86. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gargoyle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.