1. GARUDA is a Japanese industrial metal solo idol project by Yuffie Sakimura (崎村ゆふぃ), who is also a member of rockabilly idol group MELONBATAKE A GO GO (めろん畑 A GOGO).

2. Was the performing name of Chris Jones (b.1960, Chester, England), an improvising guitarist and electronica artist working in London. His work is mainly improvised, loop-based music. He now works under the name of Jonesisdying.
Garuda has also worked with electronica trio Angel Navigator Garuda.

3. Garuda is Russian-Udmurt folk-metal band. The band was founded in 2008. This band play original Udmurt folk metal. 

4. Garuda is a Sludge-Stoner-Post-Punk-rock outfit from Paris (France). They released a first ep - Chains & Shadows - in 2013. http://wearegaruda.bandcamp.com/

5. Garuda is also a three-piece math-rock band based in Cambridge, United Kingdom.

6.  Garuda is an indie rock band from La Plata, Argentina. The band was founded in 2010. Free tracks can be downloaded at their offical website, www.garudamusica.bandcamp.com.

7. 'Garuda' was also a Tech Metal band from Fort Worth, Texas that formed from a few members of 'Slave One' and later borrowing a member of 'El Salvador Birthday Bash,' also from Fort Worth.[Two of the members also played in the Dallas, Texas Crust Punk band 'Bread and Water'].  They played a pummeling style of Hardcore with plenty of sick old school Death Metal overtones. They released only one EP called "Cold Wired Sentiment" plus had a brutal track on Robotic Empire's MUTATION compilation. A second album was to be put out, but all of the recordings were lost in a hard-drive crash.  It would not have been easy to re-record everything, so they left it at that.  They broke up sometime after.

8. Garuda was also a New Jersey Progressive Psychedelic rock group including Benjamin Wilton, Rob Park, and Ian Alderman. Garuda is currently on hiatus.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Garuda">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.