Gasp refers to more than one artist:

1) Gasp was a band from southern California, active from 1996 to 1999. 
Gasp are known for using elements of grindcore, psych, ambient noise, tape manipulations. Ever the since the band's demise, ex-members have played in various projects, ranging from acid techno to doom metal.

Releases (not in a particular order):

"Sore for Days" Demo (Note: Not all of the songs are  included in the "An Earwig's Guide to Traveling" collection CD)
"Welcome to the Cosmos": Gasp/Volume Eleven Split 7" (Witching Hour)
Gasp/Deerhoof Split 7" (Maumau Underground)
Gasp/Suffering Luna Split 12" (Deep Six)
Gasp/Noothgrush (Clean Plate) Split 7"
"Drome Triler of Puzzle Zoo People" LP/CD (Slap a Ham)
"An Earwig's Guide to Traveling" CD (Avant Garde Farm/Capibara) - a collection of all the splits and compilation songs.

Gasp tracks appear on:

"Cry Now, Cry Later 4" 2x7"/CD (Pessimiser)
"No Fate" 2xCD (HG Fact)
"Reality 2" LP (Deep Six)
"Deadly Encounters" 7" (Agitate 86)
"Bllleeeeaaauuurrrrgghhh: A Music War" 7" (Slap a Ham)

2)  A Glasgow hip-hop musician, active member of scottish collective The Being.

3) For the past several years Brian McCauley, AKA Gasp, has left his mark on the minds of many with his ever evolving solo and collaborative live performances. His self released full length ,'Ocule', was snatched up, traded and shared, setting the stage for his follow up ' If Only the Cold Morning was Warm as Us by Night', his debut with the Buried In Time record label. With 'If Only...' McCauley has extracted only the necessities from the frequency range boiling down his arrangements to their essence leaving the listener with a lush melodic playing field to lay his beats into. He masterfully blends creative sound design and synthesis with clever drum and percussion programming and a cello/trumpet contribution from a friend or two. Best experienced from start to finish 'If Only...' will draw in the listener to a comfortable place they can explore. At times playful, dark, ambient, subtle and at others showing rough edges with whip crack beats sure to get heads nodding... this album is the sound track to your everything and a breath of fresh air in the increasingly cluttered world of electronic music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gasp">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.