There are more than one artist with the name Gatekeeper.

1. Gatekeeper is an electronic duo  hails from Chicago.   
http://www.myspace.com/iiigatekeeperiii 

2. Gatekeeper aka Will Scott Cree is an experimental Dubstep producer/DJ who forms part of Bristol’s current crop of forward thinking electronic artists. His sound is deep, melodic and atmospheric, with a strong emphasis on originality and bass and drums that groove.
Gatekeeper had his first 12", titled “Tomb”, released on the now legendary Skull Disco label, which was co-written with producer/DJ Appleblim. Since then he has gone on to release a solo 12" for Peverelist’s Punch Drunk label, had a track featured on Soul Jazz compilation Steppas’ Delight and a collaboration with Komonazmuk titled Cheeky Herbert featured on Tempa’s Dubstep Allstars 6, mixed by Appleblim. Will was also one of the 12 producers whose music was featured on Mary Anne Hobbs’ "Bristol: Rise Up" special on Radio One. 

Other releases include Hades/Tomb VIP on Immerse Recordings and Which Way/Truth In the Booth (featuring Grilza) on M4 Recordings. Blip/Vansan(Gatekeeper remix) saw a release on ‘If symptoms Persist’ with the A-side featuring on Surgeon’s Fabric mix. Recently Will’s infamous Ignite(feat. Dread MC & Grilza)/Raw Tones, backed with remixes from Statix and Asa & Koan Sound, finally saw the light of day on Bristol’s finest, Screwloose Records. Remixes include Wedge’s "Overfiend" and Dubkasm’s “Respek-I-Spek” (feat. Levi Roots & Afrikan Simba) with Appleblim and also Asa & Koan Sound’s ‘Kaneda’ 

His tracks have featured since then on Mary Anne Hobbs’ show and have enjoyed support from DJs Headhunter, Appleblim, Komonazmuk, Peverelist, Tes La Rok, Statix and Clouds amongst others. He has DJ’d across the UK and Europe, and is set to unleash more emotive atmospheric and strong beats in the future. We think its fair to say that Gatekeeper is still one of Bristol best kept secrets.

3. Gatekeeper is heavy/doom metal band from Alberta, Canada. Formed in 2009 as a solo project of guitarist Jeff Black, Gatekeeper now has a full lineup and has released an EP titled 'Prophecy and Judgement' on 12" and CD, and a live recording titled 'Live of Calgarae' on cassette tape.

4. The early 90's hardline straight edge vegan hardcore band from Syracuse was one of the bands which vocalist Shane Durgee was in after Framework's demise. Gatekeeper's sound can be compared to Green Rage. Gatekeeper left behind a demo recorded on June 1st 1994 at Penguin Studios. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gatekeeper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.