1) Gatling is a progressive metal band from Canada who play some of the most unique music available today. Gatling's songs are typically lengthy and consisting of multiple light and dark parts. Alex Crosty and Elliot Slater make up the guitar line-up- their riffs vary from complex to atmosphere-inducing, and solos are sometimes integrated in the songs. Slater's soothing clean singing adds another ele...ment to the music, while Matt Luu on bass and Alex Sallas on drums provide the rhythm section. A blend of several influences, Gatling is a unique force in the metal world. Their  album "Beforemath" was released in April 2012, and can be streamed on the band's Bandcamp: gatlingonline.bandcamp.com

History

The first recordings by Gatling were made in July 2006, when two friends, Alex Crosty and Alex Sallas from Burlington, Ontario, Canada, started experimenting with music. Crosty had a small recording studio in his basement, where the two would improvise material. They didn't really know anything about mixing or producing when they first started, so: "we just cranked the volume on everything and were done with it."

They officially became Gatling in November of 2007. Both played in a number of unsuccessful cover bands (in some cases together,) and both expressed disinterest in covering other artist's material. The two decided to meet and when they did, ended up recording seventeen songs together, including "The Disguise," which would later be featured regularly on CFRB's The Richard Syrett Show. They decided to form a band at this point and decided on the name Gatling. Sallas came up with the name when, "a random thought of Arnold Schwarzenegger mowing down guys with a gatling gun came into my head... thus came the name Gatling."

The two played a couple of shows together, and in September of 2009 added Matt Luu to the lineup, on bass guitar. After playing some more shows around Ontario, the band finally released their first self-produced instrumental CD, titled "Hen In A Pumpkin," in January 2010. An experimental album featuring radical genre jumps, it received positive reviews and they immediately started on our next project, but the band knew to take it to next level they needed to get a vocalist- so that's what they did. Elliot Slater joined the band and with that came a change in sound. Gatling was now a much more progressive band, with most of the songs topping six minutes and alternating from heavy-soft. The experimental influence is still there, but the tracks are smoother and the vocals add another layer to the music.

Discography:
- Resonance Cascade - Demo - (2009)
- Hen In A Pumpkin - EP - (2010)
- Absolute EP - EP - (2011)
- Beforemath - LP - (2012)

http://www.facebook.com/pages/Gatling/48688855226
http://www.gatlingonline.bandcamp.com
http://www.myspace.com/gatlingonline
http://www.youtube.com/user/GatlingOnline

---------------------------------------

2) The foundation of the war machine GATLING had lain in the year 2006, in Riga (LV). Beginning of the GATLING building started with Juris (Hellhammer) (Mutilate myself) - vocal cords, Tanya (Free Level) - drums, Janis Zvers (Trauma Moralis) - guitar, Edmund - guitar and Janis (ex-Mutilate myself) - bass guitar. After some successful gigs, in July 2006, Janis (bass player) decided to withdraw the band. His place in the rank took Alex, well known bass player (ex-Nycticorax, ex-Anti, etc.). His fluent play made great add to the music creation and future progress. In October this year band guitar players left the GATLING legion. Ilya and Mark have joined the band in 2006 December. Expressional riffs and music ideas from Ilya and strong basic rhythm guitar from Mark made GATLING brutal death war machine. Similar musical taste made the productive process of creating it. The GATLING is best described with the following style - brutal death warcore: anti-war lyrics, expressional riffs, masterminded rhythm section, and brutal and melodic drums the same time. GATLING managed to take part at many gigs in LV, sharing the stage with the best Latvian and other countries bands (2nd LV Metal festival in Blome, Black Friday 06, High Times, Madhouse, Baltic Bizarre Fest, Black Friday 07 etc.) 

The band split up in 2011.

...in the beginning it was just a word. 
Just word created pain. 
Just pain created hate. 
Just hate created the legion...

disco:
Promo 2008
www.myspace.com/gatlingwar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gatling">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.