GAUPA (lynx in Swedish) is a rock band from Falun, Sweden. With surreal lyrics, an energetic singer, and the sound of progressive stoner rock with doom/folk/psychedelic influences, they released their debut EP in June 2018 and have already established an international name on the underground scene. “GAUPA” – their self titled debut EP – was well received and the band did one of their first performances on Scandinavia’s biggest rock festival, Sweden Rock, and have been aired on different radio shows all over the world. GAUPA signed with German label Kozmik Artifactz and released the EP on vinyl in October 2019.

”It’s a fabulous debut by Gaupa from Sweden, perfectly mixing stoner and psychedelic rock with folk and even some doom – which is lingering pretty subversive in a layer underneath.”

More Fuzz, Jan 2019
GAUPA had a busy 2018/2019 with playing at different festivals and venues. Critics seemed not only impressed by the studio recordings and diverse arrangements but also by the level of intensity displayed live. The talk in between songs are kept to a minimum and the tension are soon to be broken by another screeching guitar feedback delivered together with hair swung in fanatic synchronisation. GAUPA seem to leave their audiences both in astonishment and with a good sense of ache in their necks.

“GAUPA, a Swedish stoner band from Falun starts off with an immense
energy right from the top. The opening song “Febersvan” takes us on a
journey through suggestive landscapes and dark forests. The level of energy
they display is astounding and they keep it up for the whole set. Even in the
slow, almost psychedelic, parts of the show, they never seem to loose any
focus or intensity.”

Stargazed Magazine (Live at Sabaton Open Air, August 2019)
In April 2020 GAUPA followed up to release their first full-length album “Feberdröm” gaining even more attention both from the underground scene, as well as from Nuclear Blast Records. Jens Prueter, Head Of A&R Nuclear Blast Records Europe: “While most newcomer bands struggled during the Corona pandemic, GAUPA managed to grow by quality. Their unique sound hasn’t remained unnoticed and word by mouth spread fast. Once we saw their live stream show and had some video conferences, we knew they would sit well in an artist roster of Graveyard, Opeth, Earthless and Meshuggah who appeared to be some of their favourite bands, even if GAUPA isn’t very metal at all. But it’s that attitude to tear down boundaries between genres – just for the sake of art. We are proud to welcome them in good company.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gaupa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.