**Name Changed to razorwyre**

GAYWYRE are a Heavy/Power/Thrash/Speed Metal band formed in 2008 in Wellington, NZ. GAYWYRE's sound is largely influenced by the classic metal bands and genres of the 1980s - Yet doesn't concentrate on one particular genre. The band was originally the brainchild of Chris "Clav" Calavrias, born in the notorius Hutt Valley, who then got together with James Murray to write material for the band.  In 2009 the rest of the band was brought into the fold, with seasoned local drummer Nick Oakes, and experienced bass player Simon Smith getting together with the guitarists. Finally, vocalist Zane "Z Man" was recruited, and the band began to rehearse songs using primarily the material composed by guitarists James and Chris. 

After playing several local shows in Wellington including the famed home-turf venue HMPCO (Heavy Metal Party Club Oi), GAYWYRE set to work recording their debut EP titled "Coming Out", with experienced local Engineer Tim Shann (Of Tim Shann Studios fame). The album was mixed over several sessions early in the year, with final production touches being put on hold due to band member absences overseas. The EP is in production at the time of writing and released in November, 2009. 

GAYWYRE's approach is generally very light-hearted, with a focus on entertaining, and not taking things to seriously (hence the name), though all-members remain dedicated to classic thrash and heavy metal. Musical influences come from a massive range of classic bands, from Iron Maiden, Judas Priest, U.D.O., Exodus, Forbidden, and Agent Steel to bands like Cryptic Slaughter, Grim Reaper, Fatal Violence, D.R.I and Sortilège plus many others. Basically, the music features elements from many sub-genres of metal, with a sound that is rooted in the traditional approach. Some songs may take on more of a thrash/crossover feel, while others may be considered more straight forward powerthrash, or heavy metal.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Gaywyre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.