There is more than one band with the name Geist:

1.) Geist, alternative metal (http://www.geistreich.org)
2.) Geïst, Black Metal from Germany (http://www.facebook.com/eis.official)
3.) Geist, an industrial / dark ambient project from Alsace in France: http://www.geist-musik.eu.
4.) Geist, Folk Black Metal (http://www.myspace.com/geistclans)
5.) Geist, world music  The group's music features percussion, harp and Chapman Stick. http://www.harpdancer.com/geist.html
6.) Geist, Black Metal from Israel (http://www.myspace.com/geistfluch)
7.) Geist, north-eastern UK crust/hardcore. (https://www.facebook.com/ukgeist)


1. Geist
The dawn of the millennium saw the formation of Geist and with it a string of live gigs and even dabbing in their own music production. The internet as well as a strong live presence has given the band an opportunity to resonate a huge response from an ever growing fan base from all over Germany.

The current members of the band were formed in 2004 and after touring and playing at events such as the Alive Festival and the Kölner Ringfest, various Radio channels, Newspapers and Internet broadcasters sat up and took notice. The band managed yet again to create a wide spread resonance, reaching shores as far as San Francisco! Small labels and independent production companies contributed to the recording of a number of compilations.

March 30th 2007 will see the launch of Geist’s current LP “Für alle Zeit”, produced by Carsten Schmidt of Ezy Soundz at Danse Macabre Records/Alive. The rest of the year will be spent touring Germany, performing their latest Album from where the guys feel most at home…the stage.

2) Geïst
In 2002 Alboin joined Aínvars solo project EISMALSOTT, they gathered a line-up with drummer Marlek, bass player Thalos and vocalist Cypher D. Rex. In 2003, EISMALSOTT signed to Black Attakk, recorded a 7” EP called “Best before: spring”, including the songs “Alle unter dem Himmel” and “Laub”, that are still performed by GEIST.

Soon they quit with Black Attakk again. This EP later had been release by Northern Silence Productions. Plans for the recording of the debut album had been made and started in the summer of 2004.
In early 2005 Alboin and Aínvar parted their musical ways. Alboin founded GEIST with the entire line-up and the new guitarist Renegade A. Rex. Aínvar continued with EISMALSOTT on his own. “Patina” is released as the debut album of GEIST in May 2005 on German Solistitium Records, followed by various live performances. In July 2005 Thalos leaves the band and gets replaced by Padraiq.

In late Spring GEIST signs to Cold Dimensions, the label run by former LUNAR AURORA member Whyrhd. The second album “Kainsmal” is recorded within a week and sees its publishing on July 10th the same year.

In November 2006, Renegade A. Rex and Padraiq have to leave GEIST. The band faces a future made of fog, sailing on ships with dead captains. 

In 2010 they had to change their name into Eïs due to legal reasons


6) Formed in 2008, Geist is a one-man black metal band. All songs were composed and recorded by Ratimus (also from Mucous Scrotum and Bartholomeus Night). Discography includes 1 Demo, "Luzifers Fluch - Die Ewige Mordgier", and 1 Single, "Der Ungeist".


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Geist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.