Several bands are called Genghis Khan.

1) Genghis Khan was a former name of NWOBHM band Tokyo Blade. Under this name they released an EP Double Dealin (1983).

2) Genghis Khan, known as Dschinghis Khan back home in Germany, was part of the 'Neue Deutsche Welle' (New German Wave) genre of popular music of the 1970s and 1980s. Inspired by how well Boney M went with its 1978 hit Rasputin, German producer Ralph Seigel decided to form a band that shared the same hallmarks - extravagent costumes, a pernacious disco beat, synthesizers, and lyrics concerned with people and events historical. The group of four men and two women that Seigel put together failed to win at a German talent show in 1979, singing about the Mongol warlord (Let's get some more vodka, ha-ha-ha, because we are Mongols, ha-ha-ha ). However their clothes stood out (see www.noaura.com/dschinghiskhan.jpg if you don't believe me) and they were able to get enough audience appeal to dare to put together an album.

Must be historical events that moves vinal, Seigel surmised, and so the band named themselves as Genghis Khan and started to research various legends for inspiration. Like samurais, nomads in the Sahara, ancient Rome(Romulus and Remus the two brothers, raised among the wolves like no others), the Incas (Machu Picchu, Machu Picchu, where the secrets are at home), and one story where the son of Genghis Khan dreams of being the drummer of a boy band instead of leading the Golden Horde (wants to drum and sing-oh, just like his idol Ringo). In this piece 'Rocking Son of Dschinghis Khan' the Mongol leader eventually gives leave to his son, obviously impressed with his drum solo (You're a rocker, you're a roller, you're a rocking man, and you are my favourite son).

The group disappeared around 1983 after their last album Himalaya was released. But whereas we cannot remember what was sung at Los Angeles, Seoul, Barcelona, Atlanta or Sydney, Moscow Moscow will, like some of the ancient monuments they sang about, will last the eons of time. 

3) Genghis Khan is a Speed Metal band from the USA. They released a 7-track demo "The Passage" in 1989. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Genghis+Khan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.