George Dorn Screams is definitely a band for late evenings. This music is full of sincerity, calm and melancholy. George Dorn Screams is also energy coming from between post rock and slowcore. After their debut album called "Snow Lovers Are Dancing" they were called the forerunners of Serpentine Rock by Piotr Kosinski from Polish Radio 3rd Programme. "Mazzy Star meets Joy Division".

The band was created at the turn of 2005/2006. After only half a year of working on their material they decided to record it in Electric Eye Studio. In the meantime they appeared on “Songs from Bydgoszcz” with a song “The Woman with a Bow” among other bands such as: Ecstasy Project Trio, Dubska, Upside Down, Dezire, 3moonboys or Variete. They gave a promoting live performance in the 3rd Channel of Polish TV.

The debut album “Snow Lovers are Dancing”, recorded with a guidance of Kapsa brothers (the former Something Like Elvis, now Contemporary Noise Quintet), has received so far a great deal of very good reviews. The Media such as Internet portals (ArtRock, Independent), magazines (Teraz Rock) and radio stations (3rd Programme) called them one of the most interesting debuts of 2006. Piotr Kosinski (3rd Programme of Polish Radio) described them as precursors of “Serpentine Rock” and he places “Snow Lovers are Dancing” among the best records of 2006 in Poland. In terms of music the debutants from Bydgoszcz follow the track of bands once described as post rock. However, they put more emphasis on “rock” than on “post”. (…) All is thought out, worked out, full of hidden, interleaving motives and melodies” (Marek Swirkowicz, Teraz Rock). The autumn tour summed up a very busy year. Only in 2007 they gave about 30 concerts all around Poland and they played abroad for the first time – in Bang Bang Club, Berlin. They supported several outstanding bands, for instance an American band The Paper Chase and a Swedish one - Leaders Off. They spent several months working on their first clip to the single “69 Moles”, realized by Marcin Sauter and sponsored by EcoPortal.pl. Thanks to “69 Moles” they were invited to take part in Off Festival in Myslowice. This experience at Off Festival inspired the musicians from George Dorn Screams to organize a similar event in their home town Bydgoszcz. They managed to attract several foreign stars (Flunk, Worm Is Green, Mugison, Don Caballero, Anathallo, Rivulets, Bang Gang) and a great representation of the Polish scene - The Car Is On Fire, Cool Kids Of Death, Mitch & Mitch Big Band, Plum, The Poise Rite, Scianka). Their involvement in the organization of the festival was appreciated by one of the most significant national newspapers “Gazeta Wyborcza” – the band was nominated to the title “Bydgoszcz Citizen of the Year 2007”.

At the end of 2007 George Dorn Screams set off for an autumn tour – their last tour devoted to the debut record. It started with a live concert in the 3rd Programme of Polish Radio, on October 18th . They received an invitation from Agnieszka Szydlowska - a journalist. The band performed at the popular music festival “Baltijos Garsas” in Vilnius. The year was crowned with Ars Cameralis festival in Katowice, where they performed with Troy Von Baltazar.

Numerous concerts in spring 2008 proved to be the very last chance to see George Dorn Screams before the recording session for the second album. In addition, in June 2008 the song “Phoney” was included in a Various Artists CD containing songs closely related to the radio programme “Program Alternatywny” broadcast by the 3rd Programme of the Polish Radio. The songs of George Dorn Screams appeared on this CD beside such bands as Editors, Of Montreal or Blonde Redhead.

In July 2008 the band recorded the new material to be published on their second album in Elmwood Studio, Dallas, Texas. The recording was produced by John Congleton, a Grammy nominated producer who previously cooperated with such bands as Explosions In The Sky, The Polyphonic Spree, Logh, The Appleseed Cast, The Roots, Pleasant Groove, Modest Mouse. Band signed a contract with Ampersand Records (iSound Labels) at the end of the 2008. New album, called "O'Malley's Bar" will be released on 9th February 2009. First single is "Cul-De-Sac" and we can hear it on Myspace Profile right now.

www.georgedornscreams.com
www.myspace.com/georgedornscreams <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/George+Dorn+Screams">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.