Georgie James was a classic four-piece pop/rock outfit from Washington DC, US formed in 2005, featuring John Davis (ex-drummer of the defunct Q and Not U) and D.C.-based singer-songwriter Laura Burhenn.

Having met through mutual friends, Davis and Burhenn (who had released 4 solo albums on her own Laboratory Records prior this project) found out that they both had an affinity for retro-pop from the 1950-70's; subsequently, they decided to start working together as a band derived from said style. Davis would handle guitars and drums arrangements while Burhenn oversaw the Rhodes electric piano - both would share vocal duties. A few hours later they had written a few songs, and decided this was a worthy project to take aboard.

Later in 2005 the duo went to record at the Dance Place in Washington with producers Chad Clark and T.J. Lipple, and by November they produced a 7-song demo (Demos at Dance Place), showcasing a general flurry of infectious, danceable, high-octane power pop.

On May 15, 2007, they announced that their debut full-length, Places, would be released on Saddle Creek in the fall.

On August 4, 2008, the band announced they were splitting up. The official word was posted on their website, georgiejames.com:
After three years, Georgie James is calling it a day. We're proud of the album we made and everything else that we were able to do during our time together. We are both working on our respective solo projects and hope to have albums out early next year. Thanks to everyone that helped our band over these past few years. And thanks to those who've listened to the music and come out to the shows. It is greatly appreciated. See you around soon. - John and Laura (Georgie James) John and Laura's respective solo projects can be found at www.myspace.com/titletracksdc and www.myspace.com/lauraburhenn.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Georgie+James">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.