There are more than on artists/bands by the name of Georgia.

1. Multi-instrumentalist, producer and songwriter Georgia Barnes. Born and raised in a deeply musical household in north west London, Georgia combined music study at London's SOAS with a stint working on the counter at Rough Trade and quickly made a lot of very natural musical connections, being invited to play drums with DIY innovators such as Kwes and Kate Tempest.  Georgia herself is a warm, compelling, malleable voice as believable a sensual soul-bearer as she is raucous provocateur.

2. The band Georgia has steadily created a loyal fanbase over the last few years.  Comprised of three brothers and a close friend all from the south, they are currently signed with Atlantic Records.  They released an EP called the Cabin Sessions Vol. 1, which was recorded live in 2007 while at a log cabin in Blue Ridge, Ga. They have since been working on their first full studio album, recording in LA.  More information can be found at www.myspace.com/georgia or www.georgia.sunrise-promotions.com.

3. A trance artist: Georgia is a female DJ / producer from Dutch harbour city Rotterdam. As of March 2008, she has two releases. Her first production was a track called 'We Rise', co-produced with 'Stimulator'. This was released in December 2007 along with a dub mix by her from the 'Flashover Recordings' label. Her second production 'Ode to '99' was released in March 2008 under the 'Levare Recordings' label.

4. Georgia was the work of Patti Kim (Meowch / Tel Quel) and Five Seventeen (Toys for Elliot / 5MP) who carefully crafted songs with their 4-tracks in separate houses rather than walk the half-block to each others houses.

5. Also a South African artist (or group).

6. Georgia, real name Gordy Deems, was a lead / rhythm guitarist in the 80s AOR band, Rage n’ Rox. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Georgia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.