George Ezra (full name George Ezra Barnett) is a British singer-songwriter from Hertford, England. Born on June 7, 1993, and the son of an art teacher, Ezra grew up in Hertford, attending Bengeo primary school and then Simon Balle Secondary School, before moving to Bristol, England, in 2011 to pursue a music degree at the influential music school “BIMM.” His younger brother Ethan Barnett is also a musician and goes by the name Ten Tonnes.

Ezra's music is described as deep, bluesy and mournful - particularly in tracks such as "Budapest" - and is peppered with influences from the likes of Bob Dylan and Woody Guthrie. Richard Pitt from BBC Bristol aptly described Ezra as "a young man with the voice of a 50 year old”. 

Ezra appeared on the “Introducing...” stage at Glastonbury in 2013 and came fifth in the BBC’s Sound of 2014 poll. 

EP releases - 2013 & 2014
Ezra released his debut EP "Did You Hear the Rain?" in October 2013, with his second EP "Cassy O'" being released in March 2014.

First Studio Album - "Wanted on Voyage" (2014)
Ezra’s first studio album “Wanted on Voyage” was released on June 30, 2014. It became the third best selling album in 2014 in the UK.

Second Studio Album - "Staying at Tamara’s" (2018)
Ezra’s second studio album “Staying at Tamara’s ” was released on March 23, 2018. The 11-track album’s title comes from the time he spent in Barcelona writing the album, where he stayed in an apartment owned by a woman called “Tamara.”

Podcast Host
On February 12th, 2018, Ezra launched the first episode of his first podcast, “George Ezra & Friends”. On the podcast, he has interviewed several musicians including Ed Sheeran, Rag’n’Bone Man, Craig David, Hannah Reid of London Grammar and Ben Thatcher of Royal Blood.

On December 17, 2019, he launched his second podcast called “Phone A Friend” with his old friend and schoolmate Ollie MN. On this podcast, he and Ollie chat about life and their issues with mental health, in the hopes of encouraging others to do the same. 

Other
Ezra has a 1-inch scar on his forehead after running into a wall while he was a student at BIMM music college in Bristol. 


www.georgeezra.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/George+Ezra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.