===there are more than one artist named "Gestalt"

---1)
Gestalt was formed in 1982 in Lyon. The group draws from the musical Pantheon where Jim Morrisson and Léo Ferré, Hawkwind and Béla Bartok cross, and the most inventive formations of the moment, like Tuxedomoon or Mechanic. In this asserted eclecticism, it is especially its own way which Gestalt seeks. That of a dark energy rock'n'roll interfered research in the compositions. That of a permanent aesthetic concern in electric services learnedly put in scene, and in particularly neat texts. With a stable formation apart from the changes of beater, the group is very active seven years during. It organizes sometimes its own concerts, in Lyon (with eternal Childhood) or in Marseilles (with Nadja). Re-release of their album "LE SOMMEIL DU SINGE" available from "Ifrastition"
Members:Burgundian Jacques: song ///Thierry Cottin: guitar ///Vincent Dubois: keyboards
Gilles Pollet: bass ///Philippe Estève: battery//Eric Gallay, Sylvie Chareun: accordion

---2)
Gestalt is a spanish band from Madrid existing since 2004. They play heavily Joy Division influenced postpunk with noisy drum machine backgrounds. They are close as well to My Bloody Valentine, Hole or The Cure.

Their only tracks available in Last.FM would be Milagro, Samsara and M (The Cure Cover). 1994 is definitely a track by another artist with the same name in a different country. Obviously none of these two are the awesome french cold-wave band known as Gestalt as well in the eighties.

--3)
Somewhere between MAGMA, KING CRIMSON and UNIVERS ZERO, GESTALT is one of the most adventurous Japanese groups currently in activity. The musicians have all the talent necessary to meet their ambitious musical goals. "Gomorrha vs. Khan", released in 1999, is a concept album contrasting the Orient with the world of the spirit, and displays a taste for controlled musical wildness. Not to be missed !

---4)
Gestalt is also a Belgian band combining influences from ambient, medieval, spoken word, darkwave and gothic.  The lyrics are mainly in Dutch.  The main protagonist is Bart De Poorter.  In earlier work, Arsizoë also played a significant role.
Gestalt did three official releases, apart from contributing to numerous compilations.

Discography
1. Gestalt (Demo) - 1995
2. Adamas - 1997
3. Club (remixes) - 2007

---5)
Gestalt were a progressive rock band from Ashington, Northumberland in the UK and were once described as a cross between Rush and The Smiths. They released 'Le Mat', a cassette featuring 3 tracks in the early 90's.



---6) Gestalt were a post-rock band based out of Hazel Park MI. The band was formed and made music from 2001-2002. They released a 30 minute demo single, a 4 song - 90 minute studio record, and a collection of other demos. The band played a few shows to mixed reviews.

Band Members:
Erik Mylenek - Drums & Direction
Jason Edgil - Guitar [mostly high strings]
Shaun Wisniewski - Guitar [mostly low strings] 
Chelsea Schirmer - Piano, Keyboard, Electronic Dance Pre-set Songs
Adam Ball - Bass Guitar & Positivity

---7)Gestalt is an American post-grunge band from SL, UT. An amalgam of Avintage, Downpoor, What's Above the Attic, and Demur, they are now beginning to book shows in the local Utah venues. They have released an untitled demo, and are now in-studio recording their full length album, "Dear Jaymes."

Branyan Rider - Vocals, acoustic guitar, and banjo.
Ian Hilton - Electric guitar, vocals, and keys.
Braydon Harris - Electric guitar and harmonica.
Erik Zimmer - Bass
Zac Watts - Drums

--8) Gestalt is an American math rock / shoegaze trio formed September 2016 in Burlington, VT. Their debut LP  Gestalt was released August 4, 2018. They are:
Meredith Davey - Bass Guitar, Vocals
Kurt Henry - Guitar, Vocals
Matthew Anderson - Drums, Vocals

Bandcamp: https://gestaltsounds.bandcamp.com/
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/gestaltsounds

--9) Gestalt is a german underground Rapper based in Germany.
https://soundcloud.com/die-gestalt <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gestalt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.