Tanner Petulla, known professionally as Getter, is an American DJ, producer, rapper, actor and comedian from San Jose, California.

Before even graduating high school, Getter has spun at sold-out shows in San Francisco, Berkeley, Oakland, Santa Cruz, and his hometown of San Jose. Like fellow boy-wonder electro producers Sonicc and Porter Robinson, Petulla has impressed many people in the industry and countless electronic music fans with his unquestionable talent at making high quality dubstep music at such a young age. 

He gained recognition when he released songs on labels such as Ultragore Recordings and Tuff Love Dubs. In an interview, he said "I basically started when I was 16. I was in a few bands before that; I was a drummer and a guitar player. I was a huge metal head and I loved rap like Mac Dre and Andre Nickatina. You could make electronic music by yourself, so that really attracted me towards it and made me want to do my own thing". He said "As soon as I picked up a guitar I knew I wanted to do music. I have always done art, whether it’s music or drawing, so it all came pretty natural". 

Quickly Petulla’s talent was recognized, and his tracks started gaining hype far beyond his high school’s halls. Petukka was signed by Vital Management in August 2010. Since joining Vital, he has opened for the best artists in dubstep today, such as Rusko, Downlink, Eprom, Subvert, Noah D, Nit Grit, Megalodon, and Borgore — not to mention sharing the stage at Vital SC’s Wobbleland with world class talents Skrillex, 12th Planet, and Nero, among many others. 

Petulla later signed to Datsik's label Firepower Records in 2012, while also releasing through other labels such as Rottun Recordings and OWSLA. In 2017, Petulla launched his own record label, clothes shop, and artist collective known as Shred Collective. He also produces and performs hip-hop under the name Terror Reid.

He regularly uses heavy bass and “gnarly” synths in his music. Petulla's style of producing/DJing has evolved through the years from massive dubstep tracks to a diverse assortment of genres which culminate to an ethereal, trap-light sound that still contains hard-hitting dubstep roots. Recently, he's been dabbing into more of an experimental style of reverb and bass while assimilating a variety of beats. His debut album Visceral is a testament to this newer style.

In April 2019, Petulla cancelled his Visceral Tour early after getting booed by a large number of fans at several venues who were not in favor of his changed music style, and in a tweet said that the Visceral Tour would be his last tour. There was an outpouring of support for Petulla from the EDM community in reply to his tweets shortly after. A large number of artists have also stated their support towards Petulla on Social Media, including Jauz, Lost Kings, Joyryde, Dave Dresden, Tommie Sunshine, 1788-L, Svdden Death, Kayzo, Ghastly, Rezz, Modestep, Herobust, Louis the Child, Feed Me, Delta Heavy, Zeds Dead, Excision, and Alison Wonderland.

In October 2019, Petulla teased the release of a single "When It's All Gone" on his social media platforms. The track was released on October 16, and was included in a vaguely teased Terror Reid album that was rumored to release in 2020. Petulla also released "Heartless" on October 29 as a single track, and a return to the now enjoyed music style that Petulla used in Visceral.

Petulla was also known on the app called Vine, in which he amassed over 400 thousand followers and had his videos watched over 376,500,000 times. Vine was also the platform Petulla first founded the phrase "Suh Dude" which he and his best friend, Nick Colletti, sell as a part of merchandise for their clothing brand. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Getter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.