Ghost of War is a heavy metal band based out of Gettysburg Pennsylvania. Formed in 2009 by Thane Farace & Ronnie Peterson, they set out to create their ultimate metal/rock band. The band that THEY would want to see & hear live. Both veterans to the "local music scene" with 20+ years each, playing all over the Mid Atlantic region, they quickly teamed up with Gary Daniels (bass guitar) and Jim Mathis (drums) and they set out to write and record their debut CD. Not long after, that vision came to be. The debut CD "ONLY DEATH IS REAL" was released on Sept. 22, 2012 with rave reviews.The CD contains 11 tracks, including 2 cover tunes, the Arthur Brown classic "FIRE" and Grand Funk Railroads world renowned, epic tale of touring musicians out on the road "WE'RE AN AMERICAN BAND", both of which have been featured on FM & online radio stations. The collaboration of these musicians and the final musical product was highly anticipated to many in the Mid Atlantic region. Their CD release party was nothing short of triumphant for the band, because they were finally on their way to local, regional and national success. So obviously all these scenarios fit right into their way of life. 4 friends who want to play the music they love...together. Writing, recording, and touring is what they do.Taking great pride and detail to their "live shows" to include something for the eyes as well as the ears to enjoy. Always including the audience into the mix and often bringing special guests on stage to make them feel part of the show. Playing with so many national acts all over the east coast. And since the release of their CD, the songs "Beautiful Lies" & "Falling into Eternity" have been highly successful on Reverbnation where the band itself is #1 in Gettysburg , PA and surrounding areas. It is also a big seller on iTunes & cdbaby as well. Most recently the band won the Quiet Riot battle of the bands in Philadelphia Pa, with drummer Frankie Banali being the deciding vote to give them the big win. The band is Nationally sponsored by JAGERMEISTER and have been featured on local and national music festivals. Also sponsored by Deville Ink & Piercing Co. and Knuckle Up Clothing wear, as well as Clayton guitar accessories. These guys are 4 working class old school rock n roll musicians.They literally started from the ground up, drawing from years of experience, and bringing the know how of what to do and what not to do to make this band successful.Taking little pieces of their personal and musical influences, combining them so they explode like a nuclear blast. They combine metal, thrash,hardcore, punk, country, bluegrass and straight ahead rock n roll, to create their own unique sound.and that sound is ...GHOST OF WAR. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ghost+of+War">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.