Ghoul Patrol was death ’n’ roll band which was formed in 2005 by guitarist Jani ”Boogie” Rapo (Alabama Hellraisers) and vocalist Henri Harberg (Stillburned). Wanting to bring something new to the Finnish metal scene the band started to compose songs and rehearse actively in 2006 when drummer Petri Mäkipää (Stillburned) joined them.

Next to join the band was Kride Lahti (ex-Lithuria). Kride played lead guitar until the spring of 2008 when he decided to join Finnish trash metal band Dead Shape Figure.

Beginning of 2008 brought quite a few changes to the course of Ghoul Patrol. Harberg decided step aside due to lack of time. He was replaced by Jukka Pihlajaniemi (ex-Endomorphism, Deathkult, Fourth Person Shooter) who immediately started to write lyrics for their first release. In the spring the band started to record ‘Death Fuckin’ Roll!’ in the legendary Finnvox studios. At this point Ghoul Patrol still lacked a bass player and they agreed that the only guy suitable for the task was David Forder (Stillburned, Make = Porn). At first he was supposed to play on the EP as a session player but after the sessions he was convinced - by the killer tunes of the band – to stay.

After the recordings Kride left to play with DSF – and Ghoul Patrol was again without a second guitarist. The band decided try out with Albert Orma (ex-Stillburned) who was an eager fan of their material. Line-up started to take it’s shape and ‘Death Fuckin’ Roll!’ was reaping the harvest. The band’s MySpace page gathered listeners and praises from all around the world. The EP also got great reviews in Finnish metal media – demo band of the month in Noise.fi and Imperiumi.net (among others).

After few appearances in Finnish clubs Ghoul Patrol got a chance play overseas in Scotland. In October they played in Perth, Elgin and Aberdeen with Scottish death metal band Bonesaw. The response from the Scottish metalheads was phenomenal and the mini-tour was quite a success.

Back in Finland the band continued playing live actively. The highlight of 2008 was their December’s show in Dante’s Highlight – it brought the Zombie Go-Go dancers to daylight. The girls were an instant hit and have been a part of Ghoul Patrol ever since.

In the end of 2008 band started to record their second EP called ‘Hellfire Blues’. The recording of the EP went smoothly. Due to unseen circumstances the EP’s release was delayed and after almost six months from the recordings things are finally looking better. ‘Hellfire Blues’ will be released in March 2009.

Ghoul Patrol is playing actively in Finland but they’re also aiming to play abroad during the year 2009. In April the band is going to start recording their third release.

On the 5th of July Ghoul Patrol parted ways with singer Jukka Pihlajaniemi. 
Band Quit 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ghoul+Patrol">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.