Giant Drag was a Californian indie rock group, composed of singer/guitarist Annie Hardy and simultaneous drummer/synth-player Micah Calabrese.

They have released an EP, Lemona, in 2003 and a debut album, Hearts and Unicorns, which was released in the United States on September 13, 2005, and February 27, 2006 in the UK.

Giant Drag played their first show on June 4, 2003 at the Scene in Los Angeles, eventually getting residencies at area clubs Silverlake Lounge and Spaceland.

Their song titles, which are known for their bluntness and black humour, include Kevin is Gay, High Friends in Places and YFLMD - an acronym for 'You Fuck Like My Dad'. Notable in their live performances are direct conversation with the audience and Hardy's erratic behavior.

Annie was voted 50th in NME Magazine's list of the 50 coolest people of 2005, and the magazine along with other members of the music press predicted their continued success in 2006.

On December 12th 2006, it was revealed that Micah Calabrese had left Giant Drag, and Annie Hardy would go it alone.  The band split on good terms, and Hardy stated - "Micah never wanted to be in a band in the first place. He likes playing music and he likes recording but he never wanted to do this as a career. He had a real job before and he was making money".  

Annie Hardy is well into writing for her second LP, though, and will still continue under the name Giant Drag.  Although there are no new members to Giant Drag, she hinted on her MySpace page that there are possibilities - "whoever else feels like doing it" (joining the band).  

New material from Giant Drag can be expected later in 2010. 

Annie Hardy has been releasing new and old Giant Drag material via anniehardy.bandcamp.com  in the form of "Twosies", which are basically mini-EP's.  Release of the long awaited full length follow-up, "Waking Up Is Hard to Do" is still in the process of being released along with a possible limited live album on vinyl.  As well Annie has started a side project, PNP.

Gain drag toured Europa in September 2013 and according to Hardy this is the last thing Gaint Drag will do. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Giant+Drag">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.