Formed in London, United Kingdom in 1999 by Gaverick de Vis (guitars/vocals) and Manu Ros (drums/bass), Giddy Motors were one of the most exciting bands to emerge in the dawn of the new millennium. They began as a two-piece but inevitably transformed into a trio once the live domain beckoned. However, the ever-turbulent friendship of the founders, which undoubtably provided the blueprint of their twisted composing, was to be closely reflected by the number of bass players that came and went. Allan Murray, Alex Franklinos, Gordon Ashdown, John Greenhorn and finally Justin Stone all rode the storm, but played an important part in keeping the band moving through it's fractured and chaotic 7 year existence.

Often described as displaying an affinity with bands as diverse as The Birthday Party, Captain Beefheart or The Pop Group, Giddy Motors defied easy categorisation, reconstructing and debasing their influences into a context of their own wayward, off-kilter and inimitable manner. Their songs can explode, be prone to suddenly flip back on themselves or fly off at unexpected angles.

After releasing their first single Sassy in 2001 via Ace Fu Records in United States, they signed to United Kingdom label Fat Cat and their debut album Make It Pop - recorded at Electrical Audio by Steve Albini - was released to critical acclaim in September 2002. Off the back of it came the singles Magmanic and Whirled by Curses, then tours of the United Kingdom, mainland Europe and a 10,000 mile, 7 week stint across North America in 2003.

Whilst on tour the group were in creative overdrive, showcasing new songs on the road as they developed them. This new material was later to appear on their second album, the ironically titled, Do Easy. Tracked on the most sparse of recording set-ups for just £900 by 21 yr old Tobias Warwick Jones, their sophomore album grabs you by the throat from the get-go and does not stop shaking until it is good and ready. It is hard to believe that such a big and powerful sounding record came out of such limited resources and only took 4 weekends to make. Typically idiosyncratic, the sound is a blast of deranged, spinning vitriol with the band seemingly hitting their collective stride. However, this musical cohesion would soon come hand-in-hand with a final split of the group and upon the release of the album in August 2006, Giddy Motors were no more.

http://www.giddymotors.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Giddy+Motors">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.