There are many artists with the name Gilgamesh:

1. A British progressive jazz-rock band of the Canterbury style from the 70s.
2. The incorrect English spelling of the Japanese rock band ギルガメッシュ (girugamesh).
3. A now defunct Dutch hardcore band.
4. A now defunct Australian ska/hardcore band.
5. A progressive rock/fusion band from Petaluma, California.
6. An American progessive rock band. 
7. A now defunct Hungarian lo-fi/no-wave/art-punk band.
8. An all-female death metal band from Mexico. 
9. A blackened death metal band from Munich, Germany. 

1. A British progressive jazz-rock band of the Canterbury style in the 70s. It was mainly the vehicle of keyboard player Alan Gowen with Phil Lee on guitar and others. It was fairly similar to National Health (which also featured Gowen) and Hatfield and the North. 
The band took their name from The Epic of Gilgamesh, a book that happened to be lying around at a friend's house.

They were active between 1972 and 1975, when they released their debut album Gilgamesh. In 1978, they briefly reconvened (with a different rhythm section) to record Another Fine Tune You've Got Me Into. 
In 2000, Cuneiform released Arriving Twice, a collection of unreleased material and BBC sessions from 1973-1975.  

Following the break up of the band, Gowen joined National Health and appears on their debut album.  Sadly, he died in 1981. 

2. The incorrect English spelling of the Japanese rock band ギルガメッシュ (girugamesh). 
Please correct your tags if the music of that artist is scrobbled under this page.

3. A now defunct Dutch hardcore band. Their only release is the This Could be a Set Up EP from 2004.

4. A now defunct Australian ska/hardcore band. They have released two EP's: Land of the Long White Shaft (1995) and Vulgar Display of Ass (1996) before breaking up in 1998. 
Reformed for a one-off reunion show at the Sandringham hotel, Newtown on July 13, 2007.

5. Gilgamesh is a progressive rock/fusion band out of Petaluma, California.

6. Gilgamesh is an American progessive rock band. Their demo is still(?) in production, however, some songs may be found here.

7. Gilgamesh was a now defunct Hungarian lo-fi / no-wave / art-punk band.

8. An all-female death metal band from Mexico. They have released only one demo (in 1995).

9. A blackened death metal band from Munich, Germany.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gilgamesh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.