Nobody Does It Better was Gina Thompson's first album. Released in 1996, it featured production by Missy Elliott and Diddy, and featured appearances by Elliott, Diddy, and Craig Mack, among others. Her first single from the album, "The Things That You Do", was a success, peaking at number 41 on the Billboard Hot 100 charts, and number 12 on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart. The album itself peaked at number 36 on The Billboard 200 album chart, and was certified Platinum by the RIAA in 1998. Her song, "You Bring the Sunshine", was produced by Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds and was included on the NBA @ 50 compilation album as the lead single. It peaked at number 53 on the Hot 100.

Also in 1996 Thompson performed background vocals for the song "Cold Rock A Party" by MC Lyte featuring Missy Elliott and Puff Daddy. She also appeared on Lyte's 1997 album Seven & Seven, on the track 'It's All Yours". Later work included "Why Do Fools Fall in Love", a re-imagining of the 1955 Frankie Lymon & the Teenagers hit of the same name. Thompson's "Why Do Fools Fall in Love," featuring Missy Elliott and rapper Mocha, was featured in the 1998 Lymon biopic Why Do Fools Fall in Love and its soundtrack. The singer also appeared on Missy Elliott's second album, Da Real World.

Thompson's second album, If You Only Knew, was set to be released in September 21, 1999 on Elektra Records through Missy Elliott's The Goldmind Inc. imprint. Two singles were released in advance of the album's anticipated release date: "Ya Di Ya", featuring Elliott, peaked at number 38 on the R&B chart, while "Caught Up", featuring rapper Beanie Sigel, failed to chart. The album was shelved, and Thompson asked to be released from her contract. Thompson continued to perform as an independent artist, and began work on a third album in 2008.

On July 28, 2008, Gina Thompson released a song "We Don't Talk No More (Dancehall Remix)" which failed to chart due to lack of promotion. The song was released through Blue Mountain Records, and served as the lead single for her official second studio album.

On February 23, 2009, Gina Thompson released her second studio album, Missing You. The album was released as a digital download on online markets, while physical copies of the alum were released through Amazon. The album suffered the same fate as its lead single, where it failed to chart. While the album's title track, "Missing You", was set to be released as the second single, all future singles were canceled, and Gina Thompson was ultimately dropped from Blue Mountain Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gina+Thompson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.