Since, Exploding on to Michigan’s underground music scene in 2003, Girl Scout Hand Grenade have continued to drop jaws and turn heads of any innocent bystanders caught in the middle of their rapid-fire aural assault. Though they defy being pigeonholed, their experimental agro-industrial-metal sound refuses to be ignored by music fans and industry people alike, “We don’t really fit anywhere and we think that‘s a good thing,” states Tonya (Vocals) pragmatically.

“I think our biggest influence comes mainly from growth and learning. Whether its reading a book, experiencing a piece of art, attending a seminar or just talking to people, expanding the perception of what’s possible and creating something unique is what inspires us,” maintains Andrew (Bass).

Conceptually Girl Scout Hand Grenade is a nuclear fusion of polar opposites, a negative weapon for a positive outcome. The mix of their signature hard edge political and intimate personal lyrics further demonstrates this concept. “The purpose of Girl Scout Hand Grenade is to get people thinking. Positive or negative I want people to feel something, people need to be inspired,” says Tonya “We want to wake people from their lobotomized trance, get them off their couches and into the streets. Especially the kids, Arm the children” adds Mike (Guitar)

Forming in 1999 Girl Scout Hand Grenade went through the typical process of rotating band members until landing a solid lineup in September of 2002. Girl Scout Hand Grenade then ferociously started attacking the process of songwriting and promoting. In less than 6 months they had written their initial thirteen songs and handed out over 2,500 copies of their self produced 2-song demo. By March 2003 they played their first show at Ferris State University and have gone on to play some of Michigan’s largest concert venues including Harpo’s, The Machine Shop, and Clutch Cargo’s. They have also opened for national recording artists such as Otep, Mushroom Head, Bile, Dog Fashion Disco, GWAR, Dying Fetus, American Head Charge, and Candiria. Girl Scout Hand Grenade’s Do-It-Yourself attitude and relentless work ethic has led them all across the state of Michigan, whether it ‘s a 3,000 concert hall or a basement house party Girl Scout Hand Grenade always bring their high-energy stage show, making each performance a unique and volatile experience.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Girl+Scout+Hand+Grenade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.