There are more uses for "Gladiators" 

1. Gladiators is progressive metalcore band from Lancaster, Pennsylvania, USA.
Lancaster is a cultural hub located amongst five major U.S. cities known for bringing audiences together in the vibrant music scene exclusive to the region. GLADIATORS work tirelessly to set themselves apart and establish a new frontier in the genre of metal. They bring a fresh perspective and direction to a scene that has developed a specific sound.

Guitarist, Josh Krantz, emphasized, "I've spent too many years playing in bands that had nothing to say with a vision that was cloudy. Now the group is solidified with a clear path of where we are going and what message we want people to hear. We are loud. We are aggressive. And we most certainly have a brand of honesty that countless can relate to." GLADIATORS worked meticulously for the better part of a year to establish their release and make sure that the tone was set right from the get-go. GLADIATORS debut record, “One Tooth at a Time”, was produced by Rick Armellino of This or the Apocalypse. Listeners can expect to find songs that consist of spiraling melodies, fast-paced riffs, and devastating breakdowns on the release. “One Tooth at a Time” delivers a unique blend of sounds for fans of metal, hardcore, and progressive music. The band is setting out to inspire its audiences with an intense amount of energy along with a blue-collar work ethic .

2. Gladiators is a wrong tag for reggae group The Gladiators and Gladiators is a german power metal band.

3. Gladiators is a one time used name by Gerard Requena, a spanish Makina Techno producer.

4. Gladiators was a German five piece Power Metal band. They formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2000. They released two albums, Bound To Steel and Steel Vengeance, both of which were released on Black Arrow Productions. One notable member is bass player Maik Metzner, who also played in the ledgendary crust/grindcore band Extreme Noise Terror. Other members are Sven Pöhland on drums, Jens Thomä and Jens Meinl on guitars and Alexander Thomä on vocals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Gladiators">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.