There are four bands/artists


1. Glamdring is a melodic metal band from La Mancha, central Iberia, that was active from 2001 until 2007. In their songs they mix a wide range of metallic influences from the 1980s and 1990s, mainly coming from the genres known as Thrash and Power, with some shades of classic Heavy, Death, Speed and Alternative Metal. The lyrics are written in Spanish and the subjects are normally focused towards either dark narratives or subjective intimate expression. They composed the song 'El Barril de Amontillado", inspired by Edgar Allan Poe's short novel "The Cask of Amontillado", where the essence of their characteristic sound is contained. 

2.Glamdring was started in 2006 by vocalist Tor Magnus and was originally intended to be a one man project with no live shows. Tor Magnus composed every song and performed guitars and vocals on the first EP, Lucifer's Tomb, as well as the first full length album, Death Do Us Part. On the latter album, Tor Magnus teamed up with drummer Doomspel, whom he met through a short performance with another local band named Legions of Acheron. Doomspel played drums on the recording for Death Do Us Part and, afterwards, his brother Nick joined the band as guitarist. Soon after, Scott Barber and Viskarith teamed up with the three as accompanying guitarist and bassist. After a few performances, Nick (Ivegion) left to pursue his own solo project and Scott was replaced by Grayson Beard. It was around this time that Glamdring started working on their second album "As The World Decays". Now Glamdring stands as a tribute to the first pioneers of the Norwegian Black Metal sound. However, Glamdring also stands among the few who choose to represent the message of Christ through their music

3. Artist from Poland. He started creating music in january 2007. 

4.Glamdring was a project of Canadian multi-instrumentalist  Syto Jeff. The band was formed in North Carolina during the spring of 2010 by Jeff, Andrew Nelson and Jon Matthews. Jeff played percussion, organ, piano and electronics. He also wrote most of the recorded material. Nelson was a guitarist and singer-songwriter. Matthews sang and played bass for most of the recordings. Nelson left the band in fall of 2010.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Glamdring">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.