Glaucoma refers to more than one artist: 
1. Glaucoma (UK), 2. Glaucoma (Portugal), 3. Glaucoma (Mexico)






1. Glaucoma (UK)
An Emo / Post-Hardcore band from Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent, UK.
The members of Glaucoma met in September 1999, a year later they were to start a band that almost lasted a decade. During the years 2000 to 2009, the band evolved considerably. Periodically during the bands initial year, they recorded on a tape machine and transformed their practices into amateur showcases to tone-deaf school kids and elderly neighbours.

Roughly three years later (2003), they would record their first official demo (Jul 03) and play their first proper show (Feb 03). This spiralled into years of extensive gigs, squeezing onto any bills possible around the country. Just three months following their first gig (May 03), the band had a date booked at the Tunbridge Wells Forum (Kent, England), a venue that eventually became a second home. Throughout seven years of shows, the band played here more than 40 times and in 2009 it was here that they performed their last (Jul 09).

Winning a battle of the bands in 2004 (judges from Lighthouse Family, Anti-Nowhere League), Glaucoma were awarded studio time and a grant for Bennett Memorial School's music department. Following this event (Apr 04) and subsequent recording session, the band gained interest from a music technology student (who was helping engineer at both the gig and studio). Soon, he was to become an additional member. Glaucoma played their first gig as a four piece just four months later (Aug 04). 

By the end of the year, the music began to benefit rapidly with input from a second guitarist and additional vocals. Wanting to capture the progression of new songs and a much improved sound, they arranged to record over three days at a professional studio in London (Nov 04). Prior studio time had been restricted to one day sessions, working with mismatched engineers. With this new experience, the band made a record that gave some exposure and opened up more opportunities. ‘Sunsets And Cross-Hairs’ was the groups first arrangement at Ignition Studios, London. The result was a three track EP recorded over three days (Nov 04). This was the band’s first record engineered by Lester Woodward. 

Through the course of the first five years, the sound of the band evolved beyond early punk rock influences. The band became louder and more intense on stage whilst maturing in song writing. In the mid-2000s, a style shift and name change transitioned the band from the aggressive post-hardcore genre to radio-friendly pop rock. Personal illness in 2005 forcibly changed the bands approach to practices, song writing and gigging. Functioning as a three piece for much of the year, these circumstances led to their last gig (Apr 05) under the name Glaucoma. Back to full health and keeping all four members, the group played their first gig (supporting 4ft Fingers) under their new name in June 2005.

-
2. Glaucoma (Portugal)
Formed 2006, during a discussion about paralel universes and Star Wars that went the wrong direction, this portuguese thrash-metal-punk band is ansious to prove the world that you don't need talent, opinions, or even the basic knowledge to play an instrument to make it in this business.

The founding and, so far, active members, are:
-Ricardo de Faria, on vocals, lyrics and hair
-Cláudio Silva, on guitar and girlish voice
-João Santos, on bass and copyright violation
-André Antunes, on drums and breaking stuff

Currently enjoying a positive hype, spreading across the internet and mouth-to-mouth, Glaucoma are planning to release an EP and their debut album still this year. Their career already includes the hit singles "A Tua Virilha Cheira A Calgonite Powerball" (Your Groint Smells Like Calgonite Powerball) and "Bifurcação Anal"(Anal Bifurcation).

-
3. Glaucoma is a one person gorenoise project from Mexico. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Glaucoma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.