There are several artists named "Glitterbug",

1) Glitterbug is Berlin producer Till Rohmann.

http://www.glitterbug.de

2) Glitterbug were formed in 1996 in London by Leighton Carter (vocals) and Tim Smyth (bass). Richie Bennett (guitar) and Ringo (drums) completed the lineup soon afterwards.
Whilst still unsigned, they played on This Morning TV show aka Richard and Judy.  Glitterbug signed to Edel Records in 1999 and released 3 singles, The Music Saved Us, Today Tonight Tomorrow and London's Burning.  In 2001 they toured with Icelandic pop group Bellatrix in 2000. Shortly after this Glitterbug recorded an album's worth of demos entitled the Moon Sessions. The material from these session are sketches of what would have, when accompanied by the three singles above, formed their debut album. Unfortunately before this album was recorded Edel Records went into administration.  In 2001, Glitterbug bounced back with an EP entitled 'The Time Is Now', named after the 'fan favourite' song.  In 2002 Glitterbug looked set to storm the UK Charts with a power-pop version of Madonna's 'Just Like A Prayer' following live appearances on BBC TV and a well received music video hitting the playlist on the music tv channel 'Scuzz'.  Just weeks before release disaster struck when MadHouse released a dance version of Like A Prayer; consequently Glitterbug's version was never officially released.  Glitterbug made music history by being the first unsigned British band to play in China; headlining the Shanghai festival in 2003. Upon their return to the UK Glitterbug went into the studio and recorded several more tracks, completing their full length album - 'Everything In Colour.'  The music of Glitterbug lives on today in the form of the musical 'Everything In Colour' written and directed by Glitterbug's Leighton Carter which debuted at The New Wimbledon Theatre in 2012.  Following the success of reunions by fellow brit-pop bands Suede, Pulp, My Life Story and Menswe@r; Glitterbug are expected to be announcing several UK reunion shows for 2014.

---

About Glitterbug (aka Till Rohmann, Cologne-based producer)

Based mostly in Cologne (with exhaustive global miles and one foot in Israel) glitterbug has spent the last 5 years establishing the c.sides platform and renowned electronic music festival in Israel and the last decade in countless projects - from his epic, heartbreaking dancefloor mad dj sets (with impeccable 3 turntable mixing skills), to composing film music, experimental radio play, creating video and audio installations to curating exhibitions, lectures and endless public events, glitterbug's engine has been roaring with multitude of platforms for creativity around the world and drawing his very special global fan base.

Glitterbug started developing his unique musical racket and hum in the late 80’s in illegal acid parties and continued in Cologne's experimental techno scene in the 90's, strongly infused with a deep love for gay house music, the early Chicago and the later Detroit sound. Combining the many worlds his feet tap in, glitterbug has been trying to bring together new ideas, notions, content and emotions into new flavors that always are aimed at the heart. Since 2004 glitterbug has spent much of his time in Israel performing on a hectic DJ schedule and helping to develop the independent techno scene in Israel through artist exchanges, bookings and the esteemed ‘c.sides festival for electronic music and critical media arts’, which he co- initiated and co-curates since its beginning in 2004. In between all of this, he is still finding time for extensive touring- mainly in the USA and Japan, if he is not running around in the Middle East or stuck in his studio.

In 2008, glitterbug released the groundbreaking album 'supershelter' that received massive critical acclaim for its innovative perspective, new rare use of sounds and by some journalists even declared as a historic milestone of electronic music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Glitterbug">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.