There is more than one artist with this name.
1.  project from Rex Osterkamp , part of the vada vada crew and shit, yall prob know them more for their first band MHV, that was with wyatt and fletcher shears from the garden and Trevin Welty that wrote an article abt his buddy on a magazine and does some cool art, theres way more stuff to describe here but my computer fucking broke and i cant copy and paste their spotify about thingy in my phone so just stay with that idk i want to sleep but im too tired of the project not having any info about it here so aww yeaa there we go

2. Nu Metal/Rapcore band from Cebu, Philippines. 1997 - 2002.

Glitch started doing covers from 311, RATM, Korn, Deftones and Limp Bizkit. They played around Cebu's underground scene until 1999 when they bagged NU 107's Cebu's Rock Assembly.  The band focused on writing original material and caught the attention of Octo Arts/EMI, eventually signing a record deal with Octo Arts/EMI under the label of Virgin. They were the first band of this genre from Cebu who had success in Manila. They played around the Manila scene and gathered a noticeable following. Newer bands cite Glitch as one of their Filipino Influences during the late 90's and early 2000 era. Different plans on career paths caused the band to part ways in 2002. 

3. The Glitch (GGlitch) formed in Iowa City, IA came out with the album "Scenes From the Good Life" in 2009.

4. A Baltimore, USA based electronic music group formed in 1990, and founders of the Defective Records label.

5.  Glitch is Baltimore disc jockey/producers Dan Nigrin and Bump Stadelman.

These DJs doublehandedly forged their local techno-industrial dance music scene in 1985 by making it the focal point of their nightly programming. They began a move from DJ booth to recording studio in early 1990. In early 1991 they released their first EP on one of the world's foremost techno labels, R&S Records of Belgium. They also created their first of many mind-bending videos, which was released by the Telegenics and Rockamerica video services. Glitch quickly followed up these initial efforts with multiple releases in 1992, including work on Lenny Dee's hardcore Industrial Strength Records (with a Richie Hawtin remix), and USA powerhouse Radikal Records. 

Their live show earned rave reviews for its unique approach of audio-visual overdose, their followup "Trauma" EP on Industrial Strength charted worldwide based on cassette promos, and the full length "Inertia" on Germany's Fax Records made Glitch the first totally independent foreign act to be signed to this acclaimed label. 1994-1995 saw several new Glitch projects: a U.K. remix of "Heavy Mental" on Carl Cox's label, MMR Records; new videos out on Telegenics and Rockamerica reels; "If...Then", a 4-track E.P. on the band's own newly formed Defective Records; the band's second full length effort, "Out Of Sync", on Defective; and "Schizophonic", a 6-track E.P. on Defective. In 1996, GLITCH continued pumping out new music on Defective with the "House Call" 3-track E.P., and a track on the DJ Who Remixes double 12" E.P., "Who's Who?". In addition, they remixed Under The Noise's "Lie" for their highly acclaimed "Regeneration" CD on COP International Records. Finally, Glitch had a featured remix ("Souped Up") on the 1998 Defective Records "DeFiltered" EP, remixing some of Filterless Records (U.K.) best work. 

6. Glitch is also a rising producer of Baltimore Club music from Chicago, Illinois, signed to the Ghetto Division label.

7.  A Melbourne, Australia area pop and dance singer who has gone by the stage name of Melanie Valentine,

Growing up around a musical and artistic family has kept Melanie Annette Hotham born March 16th , 1990 always on her toes and getting involved with creative projects from plays at school, theatre groups, acting school, musicals and school music performances throughout all her school years.

In highschool Melanie changed her own last name to Valentine like her favourite Josie and The Pussycats character and has been known as Melanie Valentine ever since to friends and even family.She began to write her own songs in early highschool years and would jam at family events with her cousins.She got her first guitar in the 8th grade and her Uncle Tony Donaldson began to teach her the basics whenever he had time.He started to get some home recording gear and recorded a few demos with Melanie in 2004 but she scrapped the songs and continued to write more until she felt she found herself as an artist.
By 2009 Melanie began to gig at open mic nights around Melbourne doing covers and slipping the odd original into a set. 

In 2010 she began looking for a producer to record originals with and help bring her acoustically written songs to life. This is where she met Pseudo Echo frontman and 80's "Funky Town" cover favourite Mr. Brian Canham who owns Metromix Studio in Melbourne.At this point she had entered a few songwriter pub contests and had become a lot more commercial dance pop than pop rock driven.
They recorded her song "Refund My Love" which was fuelled by a split from Sugardoll member Travis Mitchell. Melanie got airplay on a radio show called Naked Truth on local radio station 94.3 Star fm and was posted on their website as well as shared by them and herself on a number of social websites including Nova 100 in the community section as an exposure attempt.

In late 2010 Melanie had gone through a lot of hardships and decided a stage name change to signify this was in order: So GLITCH was born. As the stronger artist she wanted to be GLITCH developed her musical and personal style into one of her own and began to teach herself basic production skills so she could write songs electronically with her computer using an onscreen midi keyboard and sound samples.She began to produce much stronger ideas and by late 2012 started recording again and doing shows.Songs she wrote at this point were "Calling", "Honey Killed The B", "Dancefloor Lover", "Party All Weeked", "Obvious" and the upcoming 2013 finished track and debut music video for her song "Let Me Hear U".

December 2012 Glitch had a support show at The Toff In Town and performed with Camp Camp Revolution making a positive impression on new listeners and began to refer to her followers as her "Leather And Lace Army". She has since then worked with beat producers internationally via online networking and has had help particularly from Omri "Strobelight" Feinstein and Rob aka Koma Klown to come up with some well developed ideas that she came up with lyrics and melodies for. She also featured as vocalist on a Westfront track "The Swarm" writing lyrics and coming up with a melody.  

8. A UK band signed to Sugar Shack Records. They released an EP, 'The Gambler', in 2006.

9. Music from the closed sandbox game from Tiny Speck, Glitch.

10. Glitch the solo Psy-Trance project of Dash Hawkins, first came out in early 2008 with his one-of-a-kind signature blend of underground beats, drawing influence from all aspects of music. He was quickly recognized for his unique style and began making waves in the scene, and playing alongside some of Cape Town's finest. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Glitch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.