There are several bands using this name (not to be confused with The Glow):

1. In February, 2001 after The Tempter split up, Miguel (bass) and Charly (guitars) decided to start up a new band called GLOW. In April, Edu joined forces with them to play drums. They began their first rehearsals together, creating the first songs structure. After a 10 months period, they put the band on ice. 

In April, 2002 GLOW, with Ricky on drums this time, rose again, giving songs a new dimension. In July, 2002 Andrés joined the band to play the other guitar. Finally, Ralph became Glows lead vocalist two months later. From then on, with the completed line-up, GLOW began to create the songs of their first demo under the influence of bands like early Soundgarden, The obssessed, Trouble, Spiritual Beggars, Saint Vitus, Goatsnake, Pentagram and the pioneers Black Sabbath. 

In September, 2003 GLOW released their first recording under the title Living on Borrowed time, featuring eight songs full of intense experiences. 
In February, 2004 Andrés left the band due to lack of availability. His place was filled in for Juan in April. Soon after, the band began the recording of their self-financed debut CD Gone, but never forgotten, released in April, 2005. The CD features eight songs, including a Saint Vitus cover, and the first videoclip recorded by the band ! 

In September, 2005 Juan left the band due to his job, and Juan Luis joined the band soon after. GLOW played several live shows with the new line-up, supporting their first cd, being their appearance at the Doom Shall Rise IV festival in April, 2006 a highlight to date. In May, 2006 the band began the recording of their second cd "Dive into the sun" that will be release in October, 2006 through the spanish label Alone records. It features eight songs into 70 minutes, doomier and more 70´s hard inspired rock than ever. From that date on, the band will start to tour Spain, and hopefully Europe early 2007. 


2. Glow is a French band from Limoges. Their style is comparable to Indochine.

3. Glow also is a rock band from Estonia who participated several times in Eurolaul, Estonia's national finals for the Eurovision Song Contest.

4. Glow also is a successful rock band from Germany.

5. Glow also is a English poptronica band from Bristol.

6. Glow is also a SynthPop band from St Louis, MO who got together in 2003.  
   Members:  Glow is Brooke Edwards (vocals) and Brian Beracha (keyboards/programming).
   Detailed info can be found at their official website:   www.glowmusic.net

7. Glow is a Norwegian melodic hard rock band from Brummunddal. Members: Sven Kaare Sunde - Vocals & Bass, Jan Gisle Ytterdal - Guitar, Dag Veidal - Keyboards, Torbjørn Dybsand - Drums

Discography:
So Hot - So What? (2000) (never released)
Flipside Of Reality (2003)
Tales Prodigal Of Sons (2008)
Website: www.glowsong.com

8. Glow was a 90s San Franciscan (USA) Rock band of which Liz Roze (better know as Bettie Black) was a member of.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Glow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.