With an unfettered sound influenced by everything from Afro-beat to Anatolian funk, Goat are an experimental psychedelic rock band based out of Gothenburg, Sweden. The band have received acclaim for their explosive, energetic performances, during which they don elaborate masks and costumes, as well as their more structured full-length recordings, including the aptly named 2012 debut World Music and the lush, acoustic-based Requiem (2016).

Not much is known about the mysterious masked band, though an apocryphal back-story claims they are just one of many incarnations over the last 30 years of a group from a small, voodoo-worshiping northern town named Korpilombolo. Goat's sound is a fusion of world music influences, as they create a timelessly psychedelic sound that doesn't feel anchored to any single time or place. In 2012, the band released its first album, World Music, though Rocket Records, followed quickly by a live album, Live Ballroom Ritual, the following year. Teaming up with Sub Pop Records, The Swedish psych outfit returned with the exploratory and motorik Commune in the fall of 2014. After releasing the "It's Time for Fun" and "I Sing in Silence" singles in late 2015 and early 2016, respectively, the mysterious group returned in September of 2016 with its third record, the more acoustic and subdued Requiem. Fuzzed in Europe, a collection of live recordings, appeared in 2017, and the band's soundtrack to horror film Double Date was released for Record Store Day in 2018. Also that year, the band released the single "Let It Burn," written for the short film Killing Gävle.

There are other artists with the same name:

2.Chris Gates, better known as goat, is a video game remixer who has many many power metal and synth metal remixes of songs from Castlevania, though he has also remixed several other games including Final Fantasy 4 and Super Metroid, and he has created some originals. His website hosts copies of most of his songs, including his recently finished project "Unchosen Paths", which remixes the entire soundtrack of Castlevania 3, and also its prequels in two bonus medleys.

3:Goat formed in February of 2010 and consists of, Lowell Thomas, Josh Andrews, and Zach Sorenson. Lowell has been playing and writing his own music since he was in high school. Josh has played guitar since high school. Since Lowell and Josh have been playing together, off and on for the past few years, they have played with quite a few drummers. Zach has been playing drums since he was a kid and started a cover band with a few friends and played for fun. Goat is a band from Chico, Ca. 
Website http://www.thedangboat.com
Myspace http://www.myspace.com/thedangboat
Facebook http://www.facebook.com/pages/Goat/156102751075608 

4: GOAT, is a hip-hop performer, born Justin Griffith, from Dallas, TX.

5: Andy O'Sullivan - japanoise, harsh noise
http://www.discogs.com/artist/Goat

6. Goat is unique trio from Seattle. With an arsenal of loops and electronic gadgetry combined with woodwinds, electric guitar and drum set, Goat spans elements of rock, jazz and modern classical music. Their music is accessible to a large variety of audiences as they combine seemingly disparate genres of music, creating a distinctive soundtrack.

Website http://www.gregsinibaldi.com/goat.htm
Myspace http://myspace.com/goatisevil 

7: Goat were a blues styled hard rock act from the United Kingdom who released the EP "As You Like" in 1990 and the album "Medication Time" in  1991 on Beggars Banquet Records (BEGA 119 CD). Goat were singer  Marcus Vandell , guitarist  Adrian Oxaal (who notably later went on to play with the very successful Manchester band James) and drummer  Ambrose Lovejoy. The EP "As you Like" was produced by the bassist of The Cult Jamie Stewart and Goat toured with The Almighty.
http://www.discogs.com/artist/Goat+(5)
http://musicbrainz.org/show/artist/?artistid=376735

8: Another incarnation of Goat is a danish band, which is the brainchild of frontlung and madman, Lasse "Geen" Bak.(former member of Danish death metal act, Illdisposed)
Their style is a mix between Death, punk, noise and black metal.
The style has in some circles been called "baconcore". (more to come on this artist)

9: Andy Rosen, stage name Goat, is an American singer, best known for his song Great Life which appeared on the soundtrack of the film I Know What You Did Last Summer. The same song is perhaps more recognizable from its repeated airings in a Kia Sportage broadcast beginning in 2004 and played as people of various stripes toss the car keys to one another. Born in Cleveland, Rosen's father Al Rosen was a star third baseman for the Cleveland Indians.

10: Goat, dronelord from Córdoba, Argentina. Member and founder of Proyecto de Prueba, he also stared as guest live vocalist for many local metal bands, especially Mentes Enfermas

11: Goat, four piece experimental/psych band from Osaka, Japan.
https://sites.google.com/site/bandgoat/top <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Goat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.