This German Pagan-Metal-Outfit, named after the goat headed God of the Witches faces its tenth anniversary of being active in the international Metal-Scene. Founded in ‘94, GOM released the highly acclaimed Debut “Hymn To One Ablaze” (Perverted Taste ’95) just a year later. Being mistaken for just another, though quite unique, Black-Metal act, GOM started to re-define their style on the follow-up “To Walk Upon The Wiccan Way” (Perverted Taste ‘97). GOM’s very own musical delivery, consisting of Black-, Death-, Thrash- , NWOBHM and even folky elements, combined with lyrics based upon Wiccan Paganism, earned the band their own niche amongst the headbanging hordes. After a break of four long years, parting ways with Perverted Taste in the meantime, the band re-entered the stage with new found power and pride in 2001. With “Thricefold” (Mendes Music/Source Of Deluge ‘02) GOM finally established a bridgehead on the hardly fought Pagan shores. The unique style of GOM, with its archetypical diversity in threefold vocal delivery, earned the band a whole bunch of new followers worldwide. Euphorical reviews were coming from countries like the “Motherland” of Paganism, Ireland, the US Wiccan scene but also from such remote places as Malaysia, Singapore or Peru. 

The new album “A Book Of Shadows” should now take GOM a huge step further on the road. Right after the personal motto of the band “If it’s real METAL, then it can be part of the GOM-sound”, this musical Witches Diary will plunge the listener into a whirlpool of various moods. Be it the brutal, yet melodic “Discordia”, the folky title-track (which features Ingeborg of ADORNED BROOD on flute and Zagan of BLACK MESSIAH on violin), the doomy and very emotional “Guardian Spirit” or the theatrical “...And Inanna Stood Unveiled” - GOAT OF MENDES once more will walk upon the Wiccan Way, straight into the heart of anyone who believes in the power of Nature and PURE FUCKIN’ METAL! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Goat+of+Mendes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.