Original line-up (TONY, UKI, EHT and RENO) rehearshed cover songs in the beginning of 80's and so we decided to make some own songs. The first jamming week produced four songs and there was opportunity to play a gig at Alpua Yuoth Club (1983), so we decided to test these new songs with audience. There was only one problem - band had no name. Band playd it's first gig with name MEG, set included those four own songs and cover tunes from Thin Lizzy, Iron Maiden, Blue Öyster Cult, Saxon, MSG, Gary Moore, Def Leppard...

New name was invented short after this first gig "Flimzy Haze". We made some more gigs and demo's at Haga Waga studio Kempele. We also decided to invest to a touring bus and small PA-system. Bulk Oy advertising company made to us tour material.

Record companies were interesrted in our music, but trend in that time was that you have to sing in finnish, so we made our first single with bands own money. Single The Tryout/Paid to kill was released and the bands name was changed to GOBRA, because Flimsy Haze was too difficult fo gig arrangers and was always misspelled in advertisments. Flimsy Haze remained later as record company label with falce teeth logo. After success of the first record release Gobra made gigs in every part of Finland.

Highlights

1986 Demotape at SM-studios produced by Kepa from Zero Nine.
1987 Despair EP at SM-studios recorded and mixed by Timo Tarvainen.
1988 Gobra plays in finnish MTV3 Levyraati program. Song was Janis Joplin's Move Over
1988 Video at Kokkola TV,this video was broadcasted in MTV Europe and Finnish TV2 music program RockStop.
1988 Commercial video to Pyhäjokiseudun kirjapaino by Pentti Krapu.
1989 Single Behind the Deadzone/Silver Bracelet. Sakri Viklund made single cover.
1989 ABSO replaced EHT from may to june and made 30 gigs.
1990 LP The First At Last at Aaria studios Oulainen.
1990 Single Shadow Of Sadness/Kiss Your life Goodbye at SM-studios.
1992 CD/MC True Tale was made with 8-tracker by Juha Matinheikki.
1994 Christmas Demo song We Wish You A Merry Christmas - Jingle Bells at BRR studios.
1996 Third CD recordings were started at BRR studios.
1996 Samick to Gobra, EHT quits.
1997 Third CD was mixed at BRR studios and CD cover by Roy Haapakoski.
1998 Samick's brother RAMIZ becames Gobra guitarist.
1998 Ramiz's first gigs with Gobra.
1999 Third CD release in April.


In this period Gobra has made aboat 700 gigs in Finland
and story goes on... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gobra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.