There are multiple artists/bands with this name:

1) British industrial/free jazz from early '90s
2) Romanian metal band from '90s to present
3) Aussie punk rock band from mid to late '80s
4) Netherlands punk/metal band from late '80s and early '90s 
5) American noise/imrov two-piece
6) American one man noise/drone project
7) Chicago drill rapper from Englewood. 
8) One-man instrumental djent project
9) The pop band from Korea is named G.O.D, so please correct your tags. 

1) An industrial / free jazz band from Great Britain that was associated with the grindcore and industrial metal scenes. Conceived in 1987 by saxophonist and prolific experimentalist Kevin Martin with guitarist Shane Rogan but without a formal lineup until after their 1990 debut EP Breach Birth. Notable figures such as Tim Hodgkinson, from RIO pioneers Henry Cow, and Justin Broadrick, formerly of Napalm Death and later of Godflesh, eventually joined the band full time. John Zorn also worked with this group. Numerous releases by the congealed nine-piece over the next four years explored dark fusions of punk, industrial, electronic, free jazz and ambient dub. This was the first of Martin's collaborations with Broadrick; Techno Animal and Ice following later. 

Albums:

Breach Birth (1990)
Loco (1991)
Possession (1992)
Consumed (1993)
The Anatomy of Addiction (1994)
Appeal to Human Greed (1995)

2) God is a Romanian metal band relocated in Portugal.
God was formed in 1993 in  Iasi, Romania
Period of activity: 1993 - present.
members:
   Castor (Costel Lapusneanu) - Voice
   Gelu (Eugen Lapusneanu) - guitar
   Paulinho (Paulo Silva) - drums
   ”Lipe” (Filipe Colombo Silva Costa) - keyboard
   Paulo Borralho - Bass

Musical style:
   Gothic Metal, Viking/Pagan Metal
   the legend of God band have roots back in time. Formed in 1993 in Iasi - the capital of medieval Romania, by  Lapusneanu brothers, Constantin si Eugen.
   By that time, were launched 3 demos own production: Iconografic I (1994), Iconografic II (1995) and Iconografic III (1996). with the last demo the band gets knowed at a larger scale. In short time, God became the best death extreme band in Romania.
   next year, in 1997, they made a split with the  black/death band, DIES IRAE, produced by Eurostar. This was calleda Iconografic & Apotropaic and it was considered the first GOD album, edited at the most prestigious record house of Romania, Bestial Records.
   The first studio album was mistical called  “From the Moldavian Ecclesiastic Throne” and it was released in 1997. The album smashed the romanaian and est european metal charts. it was recorded in Cologne, Germany, in Red Moon Mobil Studio. The album includes a own cover of  Copycat, song of  Lacrimosa.

They relocated in Portugal in 2002, God returned in 2006 with their Hell & Heaven EP on the Lusitanian land via Khaeotica Productions, described as "an impressive stylized and matured sound depicting a Barbarian Viking Metal shaped under the scepter of a Paganized spirituality."

3) GOD (spelt in capitals) was a rock 'n' roll band from Melbourne, Australia, together from 1986 to 1989 and comprising Joel Silbersher, Tim Hemensley, Sean Greenway and Matthew Whittle. All members were 15-16 at the time of the band's formation. Prior to GOD's formation, Hemensley had been a member of Royal Flush (with Roman Tucker, later of Rocket Science), Greenway and Whittle were members of Foot and Mouth, and Silbersher had his own radio show on 3RRR.

Their debut 7" single My Pal from 1987 is their best known track. It got very favourable reviews and sold in the thousands (which was a lot then for an independent band). It became an independent classic and cover versions have been recorded by several bands, including Magic Dirt, Peabody, The Hollowmen, Bored! and Bum.

GOD's first mini-album Rock Is Hell (1988), was released on Au-Go-Go Records with 4 different cover designs, one designed by each band member, due to the members' inability to agree on one cover design. Rock Is Hell was variously praised and panned by critics, but still sold respectably.

Their follow-up full-length album For Lovers Only (1989), also on Au-Go-Go, was a bigger budget production, and musically a big improvement. Although GOD had disbanded by the time it was released, the album was released on vinyl by three European labels. Au-Go-Go later released a CD of For Lovers Only, with My Pal and most of Rock Is Hell as bonus tracks.

The band's last gig was at the Central Club on 30 July 1989. Hemensley had already joined Bored! by then, and all the members went on to further musical projects, Hemensley later to the Powder Monkeys. 

Silbersher was perhaps the most recognised, forming Hoss and Tendrils with Charlie Owen. Greasy Lens is his solo albums, and working with Tex Perkins. Also playing live with Dirty Three in 2006 and The Drones in 2010 singing My Pal on Mon 18 Jan – Last Drinks at The Tote

Greenway died of a heroin overdose in 2001. Hemensley died of a heroin overdose in 2003. 

4) God was a band from Amsterdam. Punk meets Black Sabbath meets Soft Machine. GOD was tos nieuwenhuizen (later Beaver, played in the 1st Queens of the stoneage line up, Huntingtox A.D. and SUNN O))), Michael Cavanagh and Daan van  Elsken. GOD toured europe a several times with SCREAM and Fire Party. Next to GORE, GOD was one of the groundbreaking obscure Crossover bands from 1988 to 1990.  Diskography: 1) Sweet Life (1988, Konkurrel Rec) 2) Shametree (1989, Wide Rec.) 3) Headrush (different line up, 1990, destiny rec.)

5) God is a noise/imrov band from the USA. God is Bryan Eubanks and Leif Sundström (record player & equalizer). They have released some CD-Rs on JYRK and Little Enjoyer.

6) God is a one man noise/drone project from Tampa, FL. Avinash Jose Ignatius aka Lord Avi is the sole noise-maker/destroyer. He believes in minimalism and one-take recordings. God's demo "Parasitic Noise" is still in progress.

8) GOD is a one-man anonymous instrumental djent project. Three albums have been released by the artist: GOD I (2016), GOD II - Jesus Christ (2017), GOD III - Holy Spirit (2018).

9) --> G.O.D <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.