God.Fear.None is a deathmetal/metalcore band based in Athens Greece, founded in 2004 by guitarist Jim Voutsas. The band's debut album "envy" came a year later. It was released via Sonic Age Records and received a worldwide release. God.Fear.None quickly gained the support of the metal community both for their studio and live skills. After a number of successful shows, the band went through some line up changes replacing vocalist Chronis Katsamakas with Solonas Magoulakis and drummer Kostis Papalexopoulos with John Thomas. Three years later in 2008 the band released their second full length album "vultures" under the management of Lucas Keller and Uppercut Music. The album was released digitally through ITunes store. Guitarists Jim Voutsas and Chris Mike were established as a great guitar duet performing great live while front man Solonas was accepted by band's fans for his stage presence and vocal skills. The bands first live video for the track The Iron M was presented on their MySpace page receiving great comments for its raw power and strength. The band would continue performing live with great success but during preproduction of their third album Chris Mike and Solonas Magoulakis would leave the band following different musical styles leaving Jim Voutsas and John Thomas in the studio and with some booked shows in their schedule. With no time to loose the band would audition guitar virtuoso Synnik and bass player Bill Saganis (the band only had session bass players since then). A month before their appearance in Rockwave festival vocalist Vaggelis Kolios started rehearsing with the band. The live shows were extremely successful and the audience loved the new line-up. Entering the studio again in late 2009 the newly formed band would start recording their third studio album "over black clouds". Production was handled again by Jim Voutsas while vocals were recorded by John Makris. The album was self released in 2010 including guest musicians from bands like Evergrey, Chimaira, Illnino, Nevermore and was clear that the band’s the persuasion to remain alive was paying off.

At this time God.Fear.None would end their long time collaboration with promoter Savvas Stanis and would go through a short term hiatus due to financial difficulties.

After being able to stay strong after all these changes and being able to gain more and more followers with every release, in early 2012 Jim Voutsas started the preproduction of the forth studio album. Starting fresh with a new and very promising collaboration with Guitarist/Vocalist Paschalis Theotokis(Bewized) the band is looking forward to presenting and performing live their new material

Stay tuned! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/God.Fear.None">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.