GODASS was founded in the year 2002 when Mattias Berkström and Axel Hellberg went to High school together and wanted to start a rock band. Mattias played guitar and Axel was originally a piano player, but was forced to play bass out of lack of a bass player. They needed a drummer and asked Mattias' older sister Kim Berkström if she wanted to play with them. Since Kim have had some drum lessons in High school and missed playing in a band, she wanted to try.

After one rehersal Kim felt that she wasn´t fit as a drummer in a metal band, so she suggested her and Mattias' cousin Filippa Widell. Kim and Filippa also played together some years back in the girlie-rock band Orphan, but the band split in 1997. Kim also has a history as a keyboardist in the Black-metal band Ishtar (1996-1998) and a short career in Tenebre on same instrument.

Filippa turned out to be the last piece that they needed and Kim cracked a name when she was drunk and so, GODASS was born. Since they didn`t know exactly what kind of music they wanted to play, they started with a song Kim wrote several years earlier when she didn´t have a band, called Goosehead. After that, Mattias and Kim literally spitted out songs that you may call a little punk inspired.

The first demo was recorded in the winter of 2002 in Mystical Art Studios, with help from Varg, member of Ishtar and Misteltein. After that there was some internal struggles and chaos. Mattias left the band for a short time and the others tried to find a new guitarist. But it turned out to be hard to find someone that was just as good as Mattias, with same inspiration that clicked with the others, so they begged him to come back. He did and with him Martin Malmsten came along. Mattias found Martin (Remy) on a Party in Svedala and Remy didn´t hesitate for long. Now they had two guitarists. A second demo was recorded in the winter of 2004 with Micko from Debase. Now the music turned more metal inspired and heavier.

After lack of interest, both Axel and Filippa quit short after each other in the spring of 2005. Axel was replaced by Jesper Sahlin. Mattias found Jeppe on a party in Lund and asked him if he wanted to join GODASS. Jeppe didn't hesitate for long and he turned out to be far more gifted than Axel and a real asset to the band. Before Filippa quit, Lina Tiger was asked to play with GODASS, since Kim, Mattias and Remy felt that Filippa was about to fall out. They liked her more technical way of drumming and since Filippa chose to quit the band, everything went smoothly. Lina has played in the band Placiid before, and has a career on the side with the misantropic group KöttKvarn.

In the fall of 2005 the third demo "Affection Whore" was recorded at Black Rack Studio once again with Micko. This CD has been very well recieved by many fans and also Metal magazines. The follow-up to that CD was recorded at Ninja Studios in the fall of 2006 and is called "Let Go". Short after "Let Go" was recorded "Remy" had to leave the band due to developments in GODASS. A substitute was found, Simon, and now a lot of big gigs are ahead of them.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Godass">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.