1) GODLESS is a Black Metal band from Sabana Grande, P.R.( U.S.A.) formed in the winter of 1989. GODLESS was the first Black Metal band of Puerto Rico & one of the first Black Metal bands from U.S.A. Apart from its music; GODLESS is very known because of its extremely violent and sick shows featuring self mutilation, verbal/visual blasphemy and animal carcasses on stage. Those shows created great con
troversy and made the band to be banned many times. Because of this; In October, 31, 2007 they got a two page interview in the Puerto Rico's most famous newspaper,"El Nuevo Dia".

During 90's period; Lots of line-up changes happened til this present day along with lots of unreleased & official recordings. In 2000; Gröfaz a.k.a. Asaradel (Founder) moved to Pittsburgh, PA to join the band LETHAL PRAYER (Ex - Acheron / Incantation / Nocturnus / After Death / Morbid Angel Session Members band). After a while he moved back to Puerto Rico. In 2006; The album “Church Arsonist"was released by Rusty Axe Records(U.S.A.). This album featured the legendary Dana Duffey (DEMONIC CHRIST/ Ex - MYTHIC) on guest vocals. " GODLESS also featured in some other Rusty Axe Records releases as the "VON" tribute CD "Sacrifice At The Altar Of The Satanic Blood Angel"and a Rusty Axe Records Compilation CD (Volume 4).

In the year 2010; GODLESS got signed by Sabbath's Fire Records(France) and its last EP entitled "Therianthropic Lust" was released on a limited tape version. "Sabbath's Fire" is a True Underground Label that have Released material from The Best True Undeground Black Metal Bands as Akitsa(Can), Marblebog(Hun), Sombre Chemin(Fra), Ornaments Of Sin(Fra), Bilskirnir(Ger), Hunok(Hun), Nehemah(Fra), Striborg(Aus), Satanic Warmaster(Fin), Lycanthropy's Spell(Bel)and so on.

A new album entitled"Ingredere In Templum Satanae" will be out in CD format during this year 2012 by Bestial Invasion Records(Uk).Completely recorded by Gröfaz a.k.a. Asaradel with the help of some guest vocals and solos that will be revealed soon!

Official Myspace Page:
www.myspace.com/thetruegodless

Official Facebook Page:
http://www.facebook.com/thetruegodless

Official Reverbnation Page:
http://www.reverbnation.com/thetruegodless

Official Soundcloud Page:
http://soundcloud.com/thetruegodless

Official Metal Archives Page:
http://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Godless/9870

2) Godless is a death metal band from Hyderabad, India. 

Bio: From Hyderabad, India emerge Godless, a new death metal force that's both powerful and stimulating. Featuring members of Skrypt, Shock Therapy, and Wacken Open Air contenders Eccentric Pendulum, this is a new sound, a new sonic vision. None other than Joe Haley of Psycroptic (Australia) fame has mixed and mastered the album, in addition to doing a guest solo on this debut album which holds great promise. With unceasing momentum, a staccato delivery, and bucket-loads of power, 'Centuries of Decadence' is touted to be one of most notable albums to ever come out from the region. With an aesthetic that's dark and intriguing, Godless convey their message perfectly and go straight for the jugular, speaking out against the maladies that plague modern society. Their voice of dissent is tangible and they're here to unleash their brand of death metal upon the unsuspecting masses, fuelled by angst, purpose and an undying passion for extreme music. The era of Godless has only just begun.

Line-up: 
Kaushal LS - Vocals 
Rohit Nair - Guitar 
Ravi Nidamarthy - Guitar 
Abbas Razvi - Bass 
Aniketh Yadav - Drums 

Godless Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/godlessindia

3) Godless is a death metal band from Chile. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Godless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.