Currently cutting a swathe through the musical scene of Bradford and the North of England are battle-hardened metallers, The Gods of Hellfire. This newly formed collection of grisly lovers of the riff are ready to take the country by storm with their no holds barred, down tuned, pedal to the metal riff assault. Taking their cues from veterans such as Trouble and Black Sabbath, as well as adding the contemporary sound of more modern bands such as Grand Magus and High on Fire, the band wear their influences on their sleeve without ever falling into the trap of being clones. Originally spawned as the brain child of ex-Lazarus Blackstar guitarist Rich Savage, The Gods of Hellfire really took shape in August 2007 when drummer Aldo (of classic thrashers Let ‘em Burn), bassist Ian (of Bloodstream fame ) and singer Al got together and found a common affinity for the heavy, fuzzed out riff. This union and chemistry resulted in the band being able to record their debut E.P. after being together for just a matter of months. Having initially set out to be a Doom band, the quartet quickly outgrew that tag as they found a mutual love not just for the slower sound, but also for a quicker paced, semi-thrash sound. The Gods entered Fullstask Studios in early Feb 2008 to record thier debut demo cd. Entitled “Dagon’s Gift”, it features the tracks “Kicked out of hell”, “Dagon’s Gift” and “Devoured by space”. In mid 2008 Aldo left the band but the Gods didn't skip a beat as they found a replacement in the shape of Lee Durham on drums. While all this was happening, they decided that they should also add a secong guitar player to thicken the sound even more and give them the chance to add some twin guitar harmonies to their ever expanding sound, enter Si Stather from Bradford band Ozzbest!!!!!

Now a 5 piece, the Gods Of Hellfire are ready to destroy all venues to rubble n dust!!!!!!!!! watch this space. www.myspace.com/godsofhellfire


"One of the most unabashedly METAL bands of the year, GOH will undoubtedly be one of the huge bands of 2009 and we would be stupid not to see it. These metal veterans have not only stolen the thunder of bands half their age, they've simply drowned out their young rivals completely. Looking for glorious metal? Look here." UKMU webzine www.myspace.com/ukmetalunderground

"This quartet's offering is a feast of heaviness reminiscent of the pile-driving Motörhead-isms of High On Fire, with the doom/groove of Black Sabath and Trouble. PLay loud" Rocksound Magazine <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gods+of+Hellfire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.