There are two metal bands called Godsend.

1 - First one is a Norwegian doom metal band that was formed in October 1991 by Gunder Audun Dragsten who had previously been with Atrox (earlier known as Suffocation). He tried to find other musicians to work with but it proved difficult and in the summer of 1992 he recorded his first demo on his own in Sweden with producer Dan Swanö on vocals and drums. The demo was well received in the underground which made Gunder want to assemble a full line-up. For a couple of months he worked with some other musicians but he wasn’t satisfied and Godsend continued as a one-man band.

In the summer of 1993 a debut album was recorded at the Unisound studio once again with the guidance of Dan Swanö and Benny Larsson. After having sent out promo tapes to several labels, Godsend signed a two album deal with the French company Holy Records who released “As The Shadows Fall” in November 1993. The album sold well among doom metal fans all over the world.

A year later Gunder went on a new search for musicians to work with and now he found his first real line-up which was made up of himself and Tom Wahl on guitars, Tommy Sebastian Halseth on bass, Per Morten Kjöl on vocals and Henrik Pettersen on drums. They started working on a second album and in June / July 1995 they entered Unisound once more to record “In The Electric Mist”, recorded and mixed in 11 days.

A third album was released in 1998 but since then it has been very quiet around the band.

2 - The other one is Polish metal band from Szczecin.

Godsend was created inside the sludge , sweat and blood of soil on western Poland in middle 2oo5. At the beginnig the monstrosity had three heads:
Michal Weglicki , Kamil Rosiak and Marcin Galicki, they are still the corps of Godsends forces.
The monster had been growing up and sending out new awful heads:
Sebastian Koziatek and Bart joined the group. Monster was ready to fight. In the month December 2oo5 moster created his first child Rise of The Stabbed EP that was the first strike , the music was raw , eclectic , powerfull , melodic and took no prisoners.
That was the first child of the monster, the band was ready to conquering Poland. Godsend had been developing and developing his own style , playing many gigs and still working with new layer of music. The monster had first significant victory, Godsend had the big honor playing at Przystanek Woodstock on the main stage in front of thousands of people during summer 2oo6.
Godsend could performed at Woodstock by the process of elimination other bands in the middle of 2oo6, monster proved his strenght.

After the year of existence on the Polish stage Godsend has huge collection of concerts. The moster is the main component of Burn Your Hate Festival local fest. which is organized by Hyeev Godsends voxman. On November 2oo6 350 fans from Szczecin were the base of success of 4th edition of BYH. The natural habitat for Godsend is stage monster loves to performing and killing inside the covered by sweat clubs.
When the monster was born the first thing he thought was the sentence that he has to be the killing machine on stage couse people upon the stage would expect the killing time. Godsend is ready to play and kill anytime and everywhere.

The music of the monster has 2 fathers Mike and Loco they are Godsends axemen - they generate death/core riffs and build musical frame of the monster. This elements plus Koziats double-bass drum-kit plus deep , warm and heavy as hell Bart.s bass are the brain , soul and jaws of the monster. But monster couldnt stay alive without heart lyric part and high growl vox are Hyeevs specialty and this is the heart of the monster. Every component has the same role hang together the monster.

Godsend creats songs of inner-strength backed with riffage that hug hairpin turns and a dynamite-triggering rhythm section. For couple of months Godsend is working with new stuff and in Dec.2oo6 they started recording new EP … new song are much brutal and thick. More details SOON Godsend strikes back! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Godsend">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.