Godyva was formed in Bari, Italy in January, 2000. The original line-up has changed little from that of the present one, included vocalist Lady Godyva, guitarist Frahn, former drummer of ‘Carpe Diem’ Enyo and bassist Nick Barah of ‘Vespertilia’. 

Soon after forming, the four founding members decided to devote themselves to the creation of completely original material. Unfortunately, their orginal plans were not to be, as in the summer of 2000 bassist Nick Barah had decided to move on and the band was left without a bassist. The band continued in writing mode while continuing the search for a new bassist. 

Unable to find a qualified bassist able to fit into the bands unique chemistry, they continued moving forward deciding to work with a hired gun that would not be a permanent member but would allow them to begin performing live and to begin recording the demos for their first album. The hired gun was found in Nicola Masi (drummer for That’s all Folks!).

In May, 2001 Keyboardist Botys Beezart joined the band, which was a major turning point in Godyva’s sound. In September, 2002 the band recorded their first collection of songs in an EP entitled ‘Advent’. The band soon began performing numerous live shows in the South of Italy throughout 2002 & 2003, they also took part in ‘The God Bless the Metal’ Festival in the summer of 2003.

Towards the end of 2003 the collaboration with Nicola Masi had come to an end and in January, 2004 the band found a new bassist, Hyrha, he blended perfectly with the rest of the band and was added as a permanent member and was found to be an important contributor to the bands musical direction. 

Finally after having attained a stable line-up, the band began to quickly move forward taking part in many important festivals, such as ‘Rock Targato Italia’, the first ‘Gothic Rave’ in Puglia with ‘Theatres des Vampire’s and the ‘Harder Fest’ with ‘Panic Cell’.

After a year and a half of touring with Godyva, in May of 2005 Hyrha decided to leave the band. Nearly a month later, original bassist Nick Barah of ‘Vespertilia’ and ‘Kebabtraume’, approached the band about rejoining and the group found itself once again with the original four founding members.  

The band feeling rejuvenated, immediately started writing sessions for the follow up to ‘Advent’. In the summer of 2005, the American label ‘SorceryStudios’ who had previously worked with ‘Savatage’, ‘Masquerade’, Crimson Glory’s ‘Midnight’, Marcie Free (Ex-‘King Kobra’), ‘TNT’ and ‘Queensryche’ among many others, discovered the band and after hearing the new materialimmediately signed the band to a three album deal. 

In late 2005, the band headed back into the studio to begin pre-production for a new studio album and began pre-production for their next studio album entitled ‘In Good and Evil’. By winter of 2006 the band had finished their newest album with amazing results which is due in June (666). Heavy promotion and touring are planned for the summer of 2006, so keep an ear to the ground for this up and coming act that is sure to bring a unique twist to the world of epic/gothic metal!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Godyva">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.