We came together in October of 1995. Eric and Joe were playing in Woodrot, a Death Metal band out of Port Orchard. I was playing guitar and singing as The Giggles in the band Head, the Street Rock and Roll outfit from Seattle. Conversation between the three of us turned to getting together to jam. Joe and Eric brought some riffs, I bought a drumset and brought the band name. Golden Pig Electric Blues Band was born.

We wrote words and riffs, massaged and tickled arrangements and jammed a bunch. The music we made was an expression of all that we loved in heavy music. We took a little from Black Sabbath here, Sleep there and the Beatles from over yonder, as well as anything else that felt good. We were having fun.

One day a wild-haired man frantically burst into our rehearsal room, "You guys sound amazing! Who are you?" We had been discovered. Meeting our friend Phil led to our first show in January of 1997 opening for 3d House of Beef and Iommi Stubbs. Many more shows, wrestling matches, birthday and bachelor parties, barbecues and garage sales around Western Washington and Oregon were to follow, playing with the likes of Sludgeplow, Argonaut, YOB, Bacchus, Barbie Car, Bottom, the Bronze, Dixie Witch, Drunkhorse, Gigantum, Lost, Misery Seed, Mos Generator, Mudhoney, the Sabians, the Spoils, the Swinos, Totimoshi, Unida, Very Special Forces, Wormwood, Debris INC., the Ruby Doe, VALIS, the Abodox and many others in many different venues (EMP, Sunset Tavern, the Rainbow, Crocodile Cafe, Sit and Spin, the Funhouse, Hells Kitchen, the Manette Saloon, the Harborside, Berbatis Pan, the Breakroom, the Rendezvous, Graceland & El Corazon, the Lobo, Hansens, the Java Jive) . Over time we'd recorded demos, some simple 4-track affairs and other more elaborate studio recordings. In the Spring of 2002 we went into the studio with Randall Dunn and recorded the music that we would release as our first CD in the summer of 2003. We went back into the studio in 2005 with T. Dallas Reed to begin work on our next CD. "Hitchhiking to Oblivion" was released in November 2006 on Heavy Hermit Records.

The music we make is an expression of all that we love in heavy music. I think I can speak for all of us and say that we look forward to making more great music, playing more shows, meeting more great people and having fun while doing so. Cheers! Jerome
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Golden+Pig+Electric+Blues+Band">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.