There are 12 artists called Golem:
1. A klezmer band from New York, United States
2. A krautrock band from Germany
3. A pop rock band from Chile
4. A death metal band from Germany
5. A dubstep DJ from Croatia
6. A power metal band from Dominican Republic
7. A Japanese doom metal band
8. An Italian Electronic Melodic Death/Groove Metal band
9. An electro/hip hop/DnB band from Croatia. 
10. A powerviolence band from Barcelona, Spain.
11. An Italian emo band from the 90's
12. An Italian house producer from the 90's

1. A New York City-based 6-piece klezmer band called Golem; most lyrics are belted out in Yiddish, Ladino, or even Slavic langauges, self-described "Eastern European folk-punk band". They were founded in 2001 by Annette Ezekiel and current members include Annette Ezekiel, Aaron Diskin, Alicia Jo Rabins, Curtis Hasselbring, Taylor Bergren-Chrisman and Tim Monaghan.

2. An obscure instrumental Krautrock band from the 70s. Their album Orion Awakes (1973) belongs to Pyramid Records archives.

3.  A Chilean Pop rock band consisting in vocalist Rodrigo Quiroga, bassist  Manuel Burgos, second guitarist and backing vocalist Olivia Alarcón, and drummer Marco Soto. They released their debut homonym album in 2003, and since their first appearance with their song "Creer", they have gained themselves a position as one of the most respected bands in the Chilean Indie scene, releasing their acoustic album "Unplugged" in 2004, the re-edition of their first album with new material in 2005, and their second studio album, "Pausa", in 2007. They are currently working on their third studio album, as well as acting as support band for the solo project of chilean singer Claudio Valenzuela, vocalist of the alternative rock band  Lucybell.

4.  A German Death Metal band who like to sing about many vivid and interesting topics. Like Mythology! And Fate! And also, Darkness! And Frank Herbert!!!

5. A Croatian DJ playing deep dubstep/drum'n'bass music in popular crew from Split under name LoopJunkies (organized in 2004.). 

6. Dominican Republic Power Metal Band (DRPMB for short)
The only song recorded which can be found here is called "Oda Al Fuego" (Ode To Fire),

7. A Japanese doom/drone/stench band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Golem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.