1) An oldschool Sludge/Thrash metal band from Louisiana, United States. The band is a direct precursor to legendary Sludge band, Acid Bath. 

2) Jose Castro (Keyboardist/Lyricist) started to compose many songs in mid-2002, influenced not only by classical and opera music, but also heavy metal and goth metal. Mixing them all together seemed impossible at first, but after a while Jose succeeded in combining metal with classical, e.g., string melodies and heavy guitars simultaneously. Jose started composing songs for his solo career after a failed deal a major R&B record. Jose felt as though he needed to reach for a place he couldn’t go doing R&B, so he decided to work with his two strongest passions: metal and classical. 
After about a year of writing, Jose noticed he could not play piano, drums, guitars, and bass on his own. After recruiting his brother Chris, they began to work together on Jose’s music for a couple of weeks, before meeting guitarist Abriel Griffin. The three worked together for a while, then decided in 2005, to make an EP titled Ghost.
Everything was going great, except that Jose wrote too many songs to choose from. So they chose to do a whole album, keeping the title Ghost and ending up with 15 songs. The most popular songs on the album were put onto myspace, where they received thousands of plays. Of these, the songs "Lost", “Ghost”, “Far Away,” and "Dreamcatcher" were 4 of the most listened-to. 
About a month after the album was complete, Chris and Jose lost touch with Abriel and started searching for a new guitarist. While searching, Jose wrote songs for a follow-up to Ghost. There were many fill-ins for the recording process of the second album, which was untitled until Jose came up with End Of An Era, reflecting on the past of the band and the start of a new era.
End Of An Era held 13 songs. The song “Imaginary” was the most listened-to song on the album, as well as on myspace, receiving thousands of plays and helping them become well-known in their hometown. After the release of the 2nd album, Jose announced that he would be stepping down as the lead singer, and that he would be auditioning ’Frontwomen' for the band. During "The Audition"'s 3-week duration, people sent in over 100 demos through mail and internet, but very few came to meet the band in person; Amanda Lerlo did, however, and the band decided to name her as their frontwoman.
Soon afterwards, the band recruited Rowan Alicea to the band as their guitarist and began a new project. In the middle of recording the album,the guys decided to fire Amanda for lack of commitment, then began a search for a new frontwoman. About a week into the search, the guys chose Lauren Malone, then recruited Charles Anderson and Lisa Ortiz. Things went really well until Lisa quit, then Charles quit soon after, and it all slowly fell apart.
In the fall of 2009, Jose and Chris decided to create a whole new concept for the band under a new name - Golgotha - with Jose back in his original spot as the singer. They recorded and released an album entitled Apocalyptica with Andrew Fafalios (Lead Guitars), Rob Keizer (Rhythm Guitar), and Kory(Bass). However, Andrew quit the band and the others followed.
In the summer of 2011, Jose contacted Lauren about coming back to the band, and she accepted. During that fall and winter, they prepared themselves for the recording of a new album, and added Brandon Klevens on guitars. On their website, Golgotha announced that they would be releasing an album in mid-2012 called Out Of The Ashes, the first single of which, "Swim," was released in March 2012, and followed by two more, "Lost In Limbo" and "Savior," the following month.

3) A Christian heavy metal band from 1987.

4) Golgotha was a Spanish doom metal band that formed in 1992 by Vicente Paya. It released three full-length albums Melancholy (1995), Elemental Changes (1998) and New Life (2005).

5) Golgotha are a british black metal band from Manchester, England since 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Golgotha">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.