There are several bands named Goliath:

1. Is a Deathcore band from Los Angeles, CA that released an EP titled "Misanthropy" in April 2011. 
Facebook.com/GoliathBand

2. A lithuanian Dj.

3. From Evansville, IN comes a ball busting hard rock band. Goliath has been able to accomplish alot in the very short time. Formed from the ashes of Goliath's previous band Nineteen88. Goliath was created to play "Ass Kicking Hard Rock" as Goliath puts it. "I grew up listening and playing different styles of music, I consider Goliath's sonic territory to include Black Label Society, Black Sabbath and Godsmack. but include a nod to the past heros of acid rock.

An actively touring artsit, Goliath has been able to share stages with some of Metals's rising stars. He has performed in almost every region in the U.S. picking up fans all along the way. Now with the national release "GOLIATH", the doors are wide open for the new moster of metal. Bass Guitarist Sandman, a South Carolina transplant who moved to Evansville a decade ago says, "Touring and playing music is an amazing "job perk" to have. I love traveling so much! Meeting all sorts of people and getting to know them is something I don't take for granted." Silverman. adds " I would echo The Sandman on that. I mean, we can drive all night with no sleep and be 100% wiped out, but the minute we hit that stage and I see a crowd of total strangers connecting with the music, it makes it all worthwhile! That rocks!."

When one hears Goliath for the first time, they are set in motion to tear apart everything in their path and show that hard rock is still alive and well. It's almost impossible not to head bang or start a fight. Goliath weaves musical portraits that relate to any metal head and every female that loves ball busting ear blasting hard rock! Do yourself a favor, Check out the new CD "GOLIATH" and be sure to catch him when he performs in a town near you. Check out www.goliathrocks.us for the most up to date info on the band.

4. A spanish heavy metal band, they released a self-titled album in 1985, and disbanded shortly after.

5. A spiffing new band from the South of Manchester, England, consisting of total rockers and one awesome classical guitarist LOL

6. Goliath were a short-lived but very promising UK band,  who were fronted by a lady singer called Linda Rothwell, a five foot nothing dynamo with the power of a lady twice her girth. The other members were Eric Eastman on drums & percussion, Joe Rosbotham on tenor sax & flute, Malcolm Grundy on guitar and John Williamson on bass. Their music had elements of rock, folk and blues, as well as an Eastern touch. A band with fantastic potential, they faded into obscurity, probably around the early 70's.

7. A Japanese Indieband made up with members from FOX LOCO PHANTOM, ART-SCHOOL,...
(Please use this tag)

8. A hard rock band from Louisville, Kentucky, USA who put out one obscure but well-regarded album called "Hot Rock & Thunder" on the equally obscure Bridges label in 1972.

9. A Belgian Hardstyle producer and DJ. Signed to the Dirty Workz Anarchy label since April 2013 with his first release Unacceptable EP.

10. Indonesian Pop Band <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Goliath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.