Gone In April came to life in 2009. During a phone call overseas between Felix and Yanic, the German guitarist described his new material to the Canadian drummer for an album. Felix and Yanic had previously worked together on 2 albums at a distance, and therefore, the trust between the 2 musicians was in place. With mp3s sent by email and a few telephone discussions, Yanic suggested a change in the vocal direction: trying lead female vocals. The material was sent to Canadian vocalist/violinist/violist Julie Bélanger Roy for preproduction, in order for the band to evaluate female vocals over their music. 

It was quickly decided that Julie's vocal and instrumental melodies would be a great addition to the material, and Julie was welcomed to be the voice of GIA. Italian bass master Chicco was confirmed shortly after, an easy decision for the team due to the bassists composition skills and experience with several music styles. 

During the composition and preproduction process, the team of musicians, along with their diverse backgrounds, put their heads together to complete the material, artwork, and lyrics. In mid-2010, recording began at WaveTransform Studios, Knoxville, TN, USA, an exciting start to the production, as the band worked and recorded in person, surrounded by warm weather near the Great Smoky Mountains. 

The mixing process began in early 2011. Sound engineer/drummer Yanic moved forward with the mix, and tracks were sent to the musicians for evaluation and for them to provide feedback. Once the mix was completed, the final files were sent to legendary Morrisound's Tom Morris for mastering. 

"Proudly we present, We Are But Human, a masterful alliance of power and melody. We hope to see you on tour!" To request GoneInApril live in your city, please contact contact@wavetransform.com.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gone+in+April">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.