Gone Postal is a four-piece Icelandic death metal band from Kópavogur, Iceland, founded in 2007 by Haukur Hannes and Nökkvi G. Gylfason.
Formed in 2007 by Haukur Hannes (guitar) and Nökkvi G. Gylfason (guitar, vocals), along with Þorbjörn Steingrímsson (vocals) and Jón P. Gunnarsson (drums), Gone Postal started playing hardcore in early 2007. With the dismissal of Jón and the recruitment of Stefán A. Stefánsson (drums) and Karl B. Flosason (bass), the band headed on a more focused "death metalish" path. Gone Postal recorded a self-produced web-based album during the summer of 2007, entitled In the Depths of Despair, which never saw the light of day in the form of an actual album. The album contained 6 tracks that would eventually be re-recorded to be published on the 2008 album with the same title.
Karl was dismissed in late 2007, resulting in the recruitment of Úlfur Hansson, who stayed with the band as session bassist until early 2008. By that time, Gone Postal had formed a great following in the Icelandic death metal community. The band recruited Daníel S. Hallgrímsson shortly after Úlfur left, who stayed with the band until late 2008.
In January 2008, Gone Postal started recording their full-length debut, In the Depths of Despair, which was finished in the autumn of the same year. It was officially released on December 2. 2008 and contained 10 songs.
Nökkvi stated in a recent interview that:
"...the reason for releasing a full length album is that it's so unheard of within the Icelandic metal scene. Bands usually just release four or five song demos or ep's and we just didn't want to do that since we had enough material for a full-length album".
In January 2009 Gone Postal announced that they will be taking a short break from performing in order to complete writing, practicing and recording their second album, working title "Spearheading the Umbrageous".
In February 2009 founding member Haukur Hannes left Gone Postal due to musical and personal differences. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gone+Postal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.