GOON is the project of LA-based musician and visual artist Kenny Becker. With a medical condition that periodically deadens his sense of smell and hearing, Becker began writing songs as a means of making the most of his life when those symptoms were absent.

In October 2017, Goon released their EP Happy Omen which has gained praise from Noisey, Stereogum, BBC Radio 6 and even Ed Droste of Grizzly Bear who recently placed the band’s single “She” at the top of his Favorite Songs of 2017 playlist on Spotify. 

Happy Omen is the follow up to the band’s first EP Dusk of Punk (2016) which saw the completely independent band break through the indie rock noise, receiving high marks from Rolling Stone, Spin, The FADER, Indie Shuffle and DIY Mag, eventually landing them supporting slots for Grandaddy, Lucy Dacus, the Lemon Twigs and Starcrawler and performing at FADER Fort during SXSW with NPR naming them one of their “Artists To Watch.” 

There are (at least) other three artists called "Goon".

2) A five-piece ska band from Southern Finland. The band is known for its unique sound which combines modern ska beats, traditional Finnish music and huge amount of energy.

3) Danish producer Carsten Krøyer already had massive success in Scandinavia back in 1993 as the singer and producer of the pop group Nice Device, which also included female vocalist Maya Albana (later VJ on the now defunct ZTV) and co-producer Henrik Munch (later involved in Dassic, Deviant, Orichalcum, Binary Experience and Sorten Muld). 

1997 album Goon - Mental Reflex

After the experience with Nice Device, Carsten Krøyer went on to join female vocalist Bettina Lervig and Goon was a reality. Represented by the danish label Mega Records, Goon made quite an impact on the danish music scene in 1997-98 with quite a different style and attitude than other bands in the bigbeat genre. According to the Mega label, Goon was sort of a pop hybrid of breakbeat and acid with "hints" of The Prodigy's music and Björk's vocals.

Goon's immediate impact and success of those years resulted in a performance at the 1997 Roskilde Festival and a Grammy nomination in 1998. Unfortunately his former colleague in Nice Device, Henrik Munch, had other ideas and won the award because of his success with the experimental electronica band Sorten Muld.

4) An American male R&B singer and instrumentalist.

5) PROUD American hardcore punk band from Denver, Colorado, formed in 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Goon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.