Gorbalrog is a black metal band from Germany, that no longer exists.

It all began in 1993, when Mortynoth and Zargonath founded VEIL OF WINTER to unleash the storm, which raged in their minds for far too long. Mortynoth (drums) and Zargonath (guitar) knew each other from other band-projects and soon things were settled.
A while later Ariatras joined VEIL OF WINTER as second guitarist. Finally in 1996 the first and only demo-tape of VEIL OF WINTER "The throne of angel tears" with this line-up was released.

Back in 1995 Zargonath founded a solo-project called GORBALROG. The name derives from Tolkien's work using the language of the dark land Mordor. The Balrog being a fiery demon and the prefix Gor- meaning dark and frightful. In 1995 Zargonath released the first demo-tape "Dor firn-i-guinar". In 1996 he released the second demo called "Nebelwald", this time with german lyrics only. Quite immediately after this release Nargath (2nd guitar) teamed up with Zargonath to work on new songs for the demo "Das Zepter", which followed up the same year.

Meanwhile Mortynoth and Zargonath founded another project to realize a more orchestral style of music: WALPURGISNACHT. In 1996 the first demo-tape called "Monumental Black Art" was released.

Mortynoth himself made up a solo-project in 1996, named NEBELGRAB, with which he released the demo "Wanderer des Feuermondes".

In 1997 a second tape of WALPURGISNACHT, called "Die biomechanische Kriegsmaschine" followed with sounds even more ambient and minimalistic than the first tape, but nonetheless monumental.

Also Zargonath walked on lonely paths again and recorded a solo-demo under the name of LES FLEURS DU MAL called "In Schweigens Traum". It was a homage to Charles Beaudelaire's poems.

In that year Solistitium Records, distributing all the demos via their mail-order for a long time, asked GORBALROG to sign a record deal, either with GORBALROG or with VEIL OF WINTER. A decision had to be made. So Mortynoth and Zargonath decided to merge both projects into one. They decided to name it GORBALROG, because of the sold numbers of tapes GORBALROG was better known than VEIL OF WINTER. Furthermore they decided to do this GORBALROG only as the two-men-team, that started the whole thing.
In september 1998 they entered the Spiderhouse Studios of Harris Johns in Berlin to record their CD-debut "Untergang".

It became silent after the release of "Untergang". No new songs were written and after a while it all just ended...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gorbalrog">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.