To talk about Gorepriest is to make reference to one of the most interesting dark music projects raised in Venezuela. The mastermind, Fredrik Akhraeta, is a producer with a wide range of musical projects and bands, but Gorepriest is the alpha, and the long walk began with it. The Gorepriest project can be considered as a pioneer of Black Ambient, which consists in a mixture of Ambient music and Black Metal made only with synthesizers, creating very particular soundscapes with a Soundtrack feeling, influenced by the works of Arcana, Tartaros, Emperor, Peccatum and others. In 2002, the demo "Beneath Eternal Oceans Of Melancholy" was recorded, compiling the first compositions for that time. The album wasn"t released under any label, but it was spread through the internet thanks to the work of many people internationally, in the golden age of P2P programs such as Napster, audioGnome, Audiogalaxy, KaZaA, eMule and others. Actually, the idea of Gorepriest didn"t have passed from those recordings, so it remained as a temporal project due to Fredrik Akhraeta"s concentration in the production of a Dark Ambient / Noise album entitled "Astral Chambers" (which would later be part of the Intimus Universum project), but in the end of the year, with the acquisition of new hardware and software, and a bit of more work, the creation of Gorepriest"s first official album began. "War Against Humanity: The Armageddon Chronicles" was released through Melomaniac Metalmedia Records, thanks to the supporting work of Carlos Sánchez, who represented an important role in what he called the "trampoline" for the project and for the artist as is. Two live gigs were made to promote the album, with a secuencer, a synthesizer and our artist in person submerged under the carapace of his alter ego, the "Gore Priest" was alive and kicking!! For that time, Fredrik Akhraeta was working in the project"s third record, entitled "Perpetual Horizons", from which two songs were played during the gigs mentioned before, and in the end of the same year, the making of the fourth production "Thanatologie: Shadowstrings Of Chaos" began. Both were saved for a deeper work in the future. In 2004, Gorepriest suffers a deep rest, for it was a year full of rude and violent changes in the artist"s life, and it"s there when new parallel projects such as Burning Without Consumption, Zardonic and Blackholepit are born. In 2005, it was late to pick up the remnants of Gorepriest, the unavoidable influence of other musical genres in the infinite horizon of music forced Fredrik Akhraeta"s creativity to experiment with other shades, but for not trashing the idea, Gorepriest returns with the internet release of "Perpetual Horizons" through VeNet Music Development."  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gorepriest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.