There are 4 Artists sharing this name:

1.) Danish duo from Copenhagen. Maríe Louise is the voice and songwriter accompanied by producer and multi-instrumentalist, Enrique Murga. They write and record all their music as a team, complementing each other’s work but never afraid to embrace their human and musical differences – a natural and liberating symbiosis.

2.) GORGEOUS was a German dance-project from the 90s, consisting of Jan Pieter Blank, René Runge (both from blank & jones) & Andreas Kaufhold. Tracks like "Don't Stop" or "I'm Gorgeous" were massive club hits in the 90s.

3.) Super catchy, the up-close-and-personable acoustic pop for which Gorgeous are renown sparkles on Big Fit Heart, as Emma and Fi are joined by their favourite rhythm section: Chris Pickering and James O’Brien (The Boat People). Recorded in Brisbane and Melbourne, with mastering magic again by Joe Malone: Big Fit Heart (with two new B-sides) is the most Gorgeous thing yet from the currently Melbourne-based girls who are still known as “Brisbane’s angels of acoustic pop” (Inpress Magazine January 2005).

When reviewing a Gorgeous show, Nick Coppack from Brisbane's Timeoff Magazine was moved to write: "There's nothing pretentious…just honest lyrics, beautiful instrumentation, sweet harmonies, and commanding stage presence." He's right. What Gorgeous duo Emma Heeney and Fi Claus do [with vocals, guitars, violin, cello, mandolin, piano accordion and glockenspiel] commands attention through beauty and heart-hinged honesty instead of pretence- and their name couldn't be more fitting.

The beauty and accessibility of Gorgeous have led to a wide range of requested supports (from bands as diverse as Pete Murray, The Whitlams, The Waifs, Frente!, Damien Rice (Ireland), george, iOTA, Mick Thomas and the Sure Thing, , Clare Bowditch, The Guild League, Sally Dastey, Ember Swift, Things of Stone and Wood, Waikiki, Monique Brumby, Mick Hart, Jodi Phillis, and The Bluehouse), and the gracing of Livid Festival, Woodford Folk Festival, 4ZZZ Market Day, and Women in Voice Festival stages.

It has also secured interviews, live-to-air recordings, rotation airplay and ‘Hottest 100’ short-listing of Gorgeous singles Whenever it Rains, Air Balloon and DoDoDo Song on national radio network Triple J, as well as countless community radio stations around the country. Big Fit Heart is the 5th CD Gorgeous have released since forming almost five years ago (all thru MGM Distribution). Gorgeous Video clips have aired on Rage. Gorgeous have been interviewed on Television Networks 9 & 7 afternoon shows ‘[Hot] Source’ & ‘Girl TV’. Rolling Stone Magazine featured the single Evaporate on a compilation CD. Pete Murray and Angie Hart {Frente] have requested Fi & Emma as back-up singers on recordings/at live shows…and the list goes on….

Following the release of the single 'Big Fit Heart' in 2005 (with  tour through May/June 2005, the wonderful duo parted ways. Farewell shows were held in Melbourne and Brisbane in late 2005 and early 2006, and both girls are now pursuing other projects. Emma Heeney recently released her second solo LP.

4.) An emotional pop band from Long Beach, CA consisting of Joel Jasper (vox, guitar, keyboards), Mark Kladderbuck (bass) and Zach Mabry (drums).

Gorgeous formed one lonesome night when the moon was low and the air cool and a couple friends fantasized that the world could look different if they helped people see it differently. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gorgeous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.