At least four different bands with the name Gorgon. 

1) A French Black Metal band.
2) A Japanese Heavy Metal Band
3) A New York City rock band
4) A Vermont Punk Band

1) One of the first and greatest French Black Metal bands, Gorgon was formed in 1991 during Black Metal's emerging and maturing Second Wave. As with many bands of this period, Gorgon's sound is distinctly original and possessing incredible power with a permeating occult atmosphere.

2) Gorgon was formed in 1995 in Chiba city (Japan), by the four NWOBHM maniacs: Shigeyuki Koide (bass / vocals), Kenji Naruse (drums), Mutsuaki Suzuki (guitar) and Naomi Kudo (guitar), with purpose of playing cover tunes from the rare and obscure NWOBHM releases. On their setlist, we can find more than 100 (!) cover songs of many bands from the '80s English heavy metal.

From the other side, band used to compose own tracks, of course highly influenced by the bands mentioned above. In 1999 Naoki Kudo decided to leave the band due to personal reasons. Next year the line-up was completed by vocalist Satoru Kawai, but after recording session of the "Force" 7"EP, he also left the band. In July of 2001, Live Recordings Attack!!! from Brazil published the "A Homage To Sabat" tribute compilation. Gorgon placed on it own NWoBHM version of their classic tune "Mion's Hill". Later guys released the split 7"SP with the legendary SABBAT (which was sold out so quickly, that the label decided to do re-pressing, so actually there is 1000 copies of it around).

In April of 2002 the new member joined the Gorgons: guitarist Noboru "Jero" Sakuma became the official member, and the Gorgon maniacs could see and hear his live performance at the 2 German gigs in June of the same year. As they say - the rest is history... Gorgon is still alive and well, so...

3) Based in New York City, Gorgon played in the mid-90s and released the album Brave New Consumer. Gorgon's played a hard streetwise variation of 90s metal rap hybrid sound. Gorgon embarked on a tour China where they were abandoned by the tour promoter. The band was stranded in China for months without airfare back to the U.S. and were forced to raise funds with underground performances.  As a result of this, the group had an important influence on the development of live hard rock in China.

4)Gorgon is 3 ladies, Kelly (bass ad vox) // Amanda (drums) // EA (guitar), playing punk rock in Northwest Vermont. Some of them are ex-members of Doll Fight, another feminist punk band. http://gorgonvt.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gorgon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.