Gorgons Eyes was founded in 1992 by Andre Muchow and Björn Below. In the beginning we only played our favorite songs from bands like Metallica, Black Sabbath and Judas Priest. But then after a couple of time we started to realize our own ideas based on a lot of different influences. At that time we thought that the name Battle Axes would perfectly fit to our music, but later, in 2000, we had to change it into Gorgons Eyes due to problems with the copyright. 

Over the years our musical style grew more and more into one direction: melodic, powerful and epic music that forces the people to sing with us and to scream with us. Influenced by traditional heavy metal music and bands like Manowar and Iron Maiden our songs are telling stories based on legends, sagas and myths. Especially the Greek mythology, from which we took the name Gorgons Eyes, too, is a never ending source of themes that we can use to write songs. 

Reflecting the years before 1998 we had to fight hard against our permanent lineup problems. Particularly the guitar players came and then went again after a short time. So we never had the chance to represent a constant unit and to reach our self-made goals. Nevertheless we recorded a demo tape called "Battletales" with an edition of 220 copies in 1996. Therefore we earned positive reviews all over the world; songs from this where even played on radio Fritz. Another great deal was the support show that we made for U.D.O. in December in 1997. 

In the summer of 1998 Rocco Stellmacher (ex-Merlin/Mind Odyssee) joined us as guitar player and he's still at this position. So we recorded a 3 song mini CD called "Bold And Unbroken" for which we received best criticisms from a large number of magazines (e.g. "Hammer", "Heavy, Oder Was!?", "Steel Conjuring") and which was played on radio, too. This demo achieved a much wider dissemination than the last one. Heavy metal fans from all over the world paid attention to it. Live we supported Krokus among others. 

In summer of 2002 a new bass player joined the band. His name is Robert Dietrich and together with him we recorded our first full length album called "The Battle Rages On" - as before we did it completely by ourselves. At the moment we are searching for a distribution for this... 

In February 2004 Björn left the band by personal reasons. But after about two month of intensive search we found a new and committed singer who's called Harald Sommer. 

In 2006 we recorded our new album “Inglorious Birth”. We also established the contact with Pure Steel Records, which signed us at the beginning of 2007.

In 2007 we did the final works on “Inglorious Birth”, which will be released on 21.09.2007. Robert Dietrich left the band and is now replaced by Robert Hanke.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gorgons+Eyes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.