There are three metal bands named Gorlab. The first and original one is a finnish/norwegian death/black metal band formed in early 1989. They have released many demos, four full-length albums and received Cult status in many countries. Not much is known about Gorlab. There are only two members in the band going by stage names, founder Overlord Furnian (from Finland), and second member Countess Wild Beast (from Norway, Bergen). They have no websites in the internet, and nobody knows how to get their releases - all is self-released by the band themselves, recorded in their own studio and self-made to CD-R. Some mp3's circulate in the internet, but it is uncertain what is actually Gorlab and what is something completely else. Overlord Furnian released an statement in 2002 where he claimed that: 

"The music-business of the world, the internet and all things humanity do not deserve our Unholy music. Thus, only the truest of the true, the most elite and the most inhuman members of this filthy race receive the honour of acquiring our Unholy ritual releases througout my personal contact. Blessed be, Father Satan!" 

Their music is described as very sinister, dark and suffocatingly brutal. Their style is very extreme, and prouduction is usually of the most lowest quality possible. Their prouduction carries it's own wall-of-sound type which is unheard in all other metal genres. Music-wise their style has changed little in the years, in the beginning they played pure black metal in the vein of Darkthrone and others (even though Gorlab claims Darkthrone is influenced by THEM.) save for a growing death metal-influence and the adding of keyboards. Originally they had a total of five members including band-founded Furnian, but when Overlord Furnian met his soon-to-be comrade in arms, Countess Wild Beast, he kicked out all other members.

Line-up:

Countess Wild Beast - keys, battery, bass, backing nazgul shrieks & clean vocals, french horn
Overlord Furnian - all guitars, sitarr, balrog-esque growling, unholy ritual chants, programming

The second Gorlab is a belgian gothic getal band based in Antwerp. They formed in 2001 and have released one demo. According to an interview with Overlord Furnian from the finnish/norwegian Gorlab, he considers the belgians to be "total posers, whack-offs weak gothic whores who need to be sacrified to our Lord and Master for stealing our most Unholy and sacred name".

The third Gorlab is a recently formed (2011) one man death metal project from Essex, UK. The band is Street Fighter themed and song writer Darren Mercer writes about various Street Fighter characters from past and current releases. The name Gorlab is merely the character name Balrog backwards. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gorlab">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.