Gorthaur's Wrath is one of the first uprising Croatian later to become Croatian/German extreme metal bands. Formed in 1998 by Morbid, who is also the only remaining founder of the original line up. The band started as primitive black metal, reflecting the times and origins of its beginnings. 
It  later evolved into an even more extreme form of death/black
metal combined with anything that could serve the greater purpose.
The band performed throughout their first era of existence, mostly on their home territory of Croatia, Slovenia, Italy  and Bosnia. The conquering was yet to begin!Legacy that was left behind that era where three demos ( "Ancient darkness", "Unleash Hell", Paroxysms of madness"), few singles and a video for a song "Shadow Mirrors".
In 2005 Morbid joined forces with Andrea ( aka Grind artillery), a notorious Italian drummer who has been known from his past accomplishments, such as Cenotaph and Necrosphere; Moric, the main person behind all the songwriting; Meshi on rhythm guitars and Krvolok from Nekrist on bass. 
Debut album "Ritual IV" was recorded in this line up and released on March 28th through Casket music records from U.K.. 
Ritual IV is entirely dedicated to JON NöDTVEIDT 1975-2006

During the first European tour Morbid joined forces with his long time spiritual brother Mara (bass guitar/synth). Soon after Ross Feratu joined the band in early 2011 and is now lead guitarist and main songwriter for the upcoming new album "War For Heaven", which will be recorded at Woodshed studios by V. Santura (Dark Fortress, Triptykon) in April/May 2012.

Ross feratu is also know for his other bands and projects such as:
 MY BLACK OMEN, THE SPOOK, RAMONSTARS and EL BRUJO'S GORE-CHESTRA.
In 2012 Andrea ( aka Grind artillery) was forced to leave the band because of the serious health problems.
In April 2012 one more guitarist Ralf Conrad joined the band as a rhythm guitar. Like Ross Feratu (lead guitarist) Conrad also comes from Germany. He played in several German Death and Modern Metal bands e.g. LAST ONE DYING, BATTLESWORD and LOUIS CYPHER and will be the perfect shredder on the second six-strings.
Much sought after german drummer Christian Bass (White Eyes, ex-Der Weg Einer Freiheit, Night In Gales, Heaven Shall Burn-Live) will join Gorthaur’s Wrath in the studio for the recordings of the band’s upcoming album “War For Heaven” on a yet-undisclosed label. He is also involved in writing the drum part and so being part of the whole record. This is a top addition to the band’s ranks and another great step for Gorthaur’s Wrath to release a top new album later this year.
Christian Bass will also appear exclusively with Gorthaur’s Wrath live on the Metalfest in Zadar where the band will present their new songs and the new line up for the first time.

Tour dates and other details considering Gorthaur's Wrath in the year 2012  will be announced soon!


The Word is spoken! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gorthaur%27s+Wrath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.