Grabesmond was formed in 1995 by Protector and Peter Kubik (both are involved in well-known Austrian black metal bands). They released a limited demo titled "In schwindendem Licht". The reason why they formed Grabesmond was because they wanted to experiment how to create emotions, and dark atmospheres besides the scene they were mainly involved in. But because of lack of dedication they split up after a few months. 

In 1996, when Lucia-Mariam Fåroutan came to Austria, Peter told her about Grabesmond and she heard the demo, and because Lucia was very interested in starting a band, she decided to resurrect Grabesmond, but with a new line-up, and as well the aim to break the vein of the previous demo release, and to enter other musical paths. 

In spring 1997 a kind of advance tape with a few selected songs were recorded and sent to Draenor Productions, and a few weeks later Grabesmond signed there, and recorded the debut CD "Mordenheim" in October 1997 at Tonstudio Hoernix. "Mordenheim" offered a kind of very unique, yet strange and non-typical material no one really expected to be released. One can describe "Mordenheim" as mystical, medieval, avantgardistic and classically influenced, not really to be linked to any scene or music genre, because of it's various spectrum of art which Grabesmond's debut unfolds.

After a break of about one year the recordings for a new album began in early 1999. "Xenoglossie" was recorded during 9 days at Tonstudio Hörnix and it shows a step into a more 'modern' direction of Grabesmond's music. The 15 songs of "Xenoglossie" unleash soundscapes of beautiful dreamworlds, classical compositions, to machinelike visions with pounding percussion, distored effects and female vocals that leads the listener into the realms far beyond this 3 dimensonal world. Yet Grabesmond can't be linked to any specific direction of art because it's spectrum extended again, so one can see it as music for a new millennium, not from , nor for this world we currently know it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grabesmond">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.