Russia (2005 - present )

The band Грай was created on the 3rd of July in 2005. The style can be identified as folk-metal. At the very beginning the name of the band was changed several times. It was "Raven Blood", then "Vorog" ( the enemy), and in February of 2007 it finally got it's name - "GRAI" (meaning the bird's cry). Gradually the material for the new album has been composing and there were given a few concerts. One of the first band's appearances took place on the 6th of May in 2006 together with such folk-metal bands as Alkonost, Svarga. On the 2nd of December in 2006 the band participated in Folk/Brutal Metal Fest jointly with Rossomahaar, Alkonost. From February to August of 2007 there had been recording an EP(demo) entitled "Ot Istoka"( From the Source), which included 4 compositions: The Birch, Winter, The Winds, The Source. The recording was proceeding at the studio of Sergey Kamyshansky in Naberezhnye Chelny, RF. On the 1st of November in 2007 there was held a performance at the presentation of the new album by Arkona from Moscow- "Ot Serdza k nebu" (From heart to heavens") within the framework of their tour of 2007. At that very concert "GRAI" presented their 
EP "Ot Istoka". 

During the period from February till June of 2008 at the studio of Sergey Kamyshansky in Naberezhnye Chelny, RF had been recording the band's first LP - "Polyn' - Trava" ("The Sagebrush"). The album consisted of 9 compositions. It's no mere chance that the album has such a name - it's symbolical and reveals the concept of creative work and the 
world - outlook of the band musicians. The Sagebrush is a symbol of grief and sorrow for the times which had passed - the times of Slavic pride, valour, courage and honour. The album is just permeated with the spirit of those ancient times, each song's reflected in a striking image. And there's more in this than meets the eye! Folk tunes, excellent wind- 
instruments parts coupled with guitars and splendid female voices of the band vocalists produce their own certain effect. The album is released by the Moscow label VOLH Records(www.volh.net/news.html). During the period of the album presentation there had been given a set of concerts joined with many groups including Alkonost, Svarga, 
Arkona, Rossomahaar. After the edition of the album two members left the band - Darya "Rodonitsa" and 
Andrey "Char". Meanwhile a new bass player - Yury Bedusenko - appeared in the group. Since that time the role of the second vocalist had been performed by Alija Latypova - 
the flutist. 

On the 10th of September in 2009 the album "Polyn' - trava" was represented in a Moscow club "Relax". On the 25th of 2010 at the studio of Sergey Kamyshansky the band began recording the second LP consisting of 10 tracks. As the members of the group see it the album would be stirring and cheerful. On the 27th November in 2010 in Nizhniy Novgorod was held a concert together with Arkona. Continuing working at the studio the band didn't stop 
giving concerts. At this very period the group hired Irina Zybina as the third vocalist who participated in recording one of the Alkonost's albums as folk - vocalist. Irina's beautiful powerful voice blended with the band repertoire perfectly. Now work in the studio is finished and the group continues to do concerts in various cities throughout Russia. The group's going to release the album and to make it's super- presentation! On the 27 of September the label Sound Age Prod (www.soundage.org) released a new album of Grai-band entitled "O Zemle Rodnoi" ('Our native land'). 

Having released it's first CD "The sagebrush" in 2009 the band Grai is now presenting a new album entitled "Our Native Land". The album to come is going to include 10 conceptual tracks, which create remarkably profound images forming the musical unity in the familiar band's style. The new album by Grai is a distinctive synthesis of traditional pagan metal elements based on the rhythms and the atmosphere of traditional Russian folk-rock. In this synthesis the flute-sounds are interwoven with solo-guitar play against the dynamic rhythm-section. Hard imposing fragments being intensified by the bagpipes sounds are enriched by appeasing keyboard passages. But the main piquancy of new songs is lace-like well-balanced vocal trio of the band-singers. With their voices they plunge a listener into the world of our forefathers and ancestors and make us fly by the fields, meadows and forests with fresh wind. And they open to our eyes and hearts the hidden beauty of Native Land. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grai">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.