Gramme are a London band making stripped-down lo-fi disco. Despite releasing music only sporadically, they nevertheless have managed to achieve cult like status, having an influence on artists like Hot Chip and LCD Soundsystem's James Murphy.

Originally a five piece, the band formed in 1996 around a shared love of the emotional melancholy now synonymous with Factory label artists such as Joy Division, Section 25 and A Certain Ratio, combined with NY's subterranean proto punk-funk on 99 Records and bands like Liquid Liquid and ESG. 

In 1997 the band recorded two seminal EPs for Trevor Jackson's Output label, "Mine" and "Pre Release".  Pre Release was  produced by Jackson in hours rather than days, accurately documenting the fever and sweat of those early sessions at Blackwing Studios in London. It was not released until 1999.

Despite it being a cult hit, their sound was so out of step with the cultural milieu that they found themselves swimming against the tide. The die was cast when, following a particularly intense Camden gig in 1996, the legendary DJ Nathan Gregory said the immortal words "I love your band, but I dunno whether to dance or pogo?!”.

Despite being signed and then dropped by their new label (Junior Boys Own) in 2001, and suffering from exhaustion caused by their punishing schedule, the band stayed together for a further year. The usual band disagreements and distrusts grew through the cracks and the project finally imploded sometime around January 2002. The wilderness years make sense now and where it was clear to some outside the band that they had stumbled across something extremely special, the band were lost in the deep woods of their own creativity.

The cult around the band continued to grow, until in 2011 some mysterious 12" bootlegs of Like U began to appear, with edits by Hot Chip's Joe Goddard. A few months later self released white labels begin to circulate with new Gramme material. Those EP's went on to form "Fascination", their 2013 debut album on Tim ‘Love’ Lee's Tummy Touch Records. Around this time Gramme were a streamlined four piece but equally as passionate and excited by the possibilities of their own music making. 

After Fascination they released the EP "I Can't Resist", only to go on another hiatus. Their second hiatus lasted 5 years, releasing their second album "Discolovers" in 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gramme">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.