Four bands use/used this name:

1: Grand Slam or Phil Lynott's Grand Slam are a rock band, formed in 1984 as the brainchild of ex-Thin Lizzy frontman Phil Lynott. The name 'Grand Slam' was invented after a plethora of other band names had been considered, including 'Reactor Factor', 'Catastrophe', 'Hell Bent On Havoc', 'Slam Anthem' and plain 'Slam' (which was actually the name of a song Lynott had in mind), before settling on 'Grand Slam'.

Grand Slam had little commercial success, but they did release some songs of note, most of which have been accredited to Thin Lizzy, including 'Nineteen', 'Sisters of Mercy' and 'Military Man' (which was actually released on Gary Moore's 1985 album, called Run For Cover).

2: Japanese glam/hardrock all-star band, featuring Jun-Ya Kato (ex- Reaction, Golden Bat) doing the vocals, Kazuhide Shirota (ex- Rajas, Presence, Golden Bat) on guitar, Hironori Yoshikawa (ex- 44 Magnum, Golden Bat) on bass and Yoshihiro Toyokawa (ex- Make-Up, T.F.G, Golden Bat) on drums.

3: The German funk band Grand Slam has been around since 1985.

4. The Swedish Hard Rock / Melodic Rock Band which was founded in 2007 in Malmö, Sweden, by drummer Andy Swaniz (ex-Quadruple), with the aim to appeal to a wide audience with their melodic rock style. Bassist Henrik Hansson (ex-Hollywood) got on board the same year and songwriter Peter Alpenborg was brought in to get the ball rolling. There have been several lineup changes over the years, as well as a number of musicians hired only for specific recordings or gigs.

In 2010 the band was joined by keyboardist Daniel Grönberg Svensson who also started contributing to the songwriting, and guitarist Thomas Klintberg.

In the summer of 2012, Grand Slam found the perfect lead singer and frontman for the band, Andy Sinner (ex-Trash Queen). With the addition of two female backing singers, Ivana Papak and Lina Vernblom, Grand Slam was now ready to go out and perform for a live audience.

There was still something missing, and the void was filled by the addition of another guitarist, Andreas Gullstrand. The backup vocalists, Ivana Papak and Lina Vernblom, decided to leave the band that same year.

In 2014, Grand Slam went into the studio to record a three-song EP, "Waiting For Tomorrow", which received considerable attention worldwide. The EP was recorded and produced by Erik Wiss in Peekroom Studios. 

Guitarist Thomas Klintberg left the band shortly thereafter, and the remaining band members signed a contract with AOR Heaven to release Grand Slam's debut album, "A New Dawn". Erik Wiss was once again brought in to record the album, which is best described as a well-balanced mix of the original and new Grand Slam sound.

The album comes with powerful drums, bass and guitar, strong keyboard melodies and great vocals delivered by Andy Sinner. The album was released via AOR Heaven on January 29th 2016. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grand+Slam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.