GRAND BITE is a Venezuelan Heavy Metal band formed in 1980 by Luis Miguel Perez (bass, lead vocals), Andrew Guzman (guitars, backing vocals) and Enrique de Gregorio (drums, backing vocals). In the heyday of heavy worldwide movement, which is characteristic of the early 80s, GRAND BITE like other groups of the moment would be one of the finest examples of Anglo-Saxon invasion to Venezuela, from the start enjoying immediate acceptance in the different shows they offered, being one of the most remembered the "First National Rock Festival" held in the Poliedro de Caracas in 1981.

In 1985, after editing a demo of four songs from a year earlier, independently released an album entitled "Al Borde Del Precipicio" (1985). Luis M. Pérez left the group in 1987 and entered Luis Ignacio Contreras (bass) and Gianni Regnicoli (lead vocals, keyboards). They released the album "Todos Hasta El Final" (1990). Further changes occur in the group and 1991 entered Carlos Istúriz (bass) and Elpidio Maradei (vocals). As early as 1995 comes as a guitarist Gregory Carrero, passing the group for the first time in history to have two guitars in their ranks. For 1996 there are new changes and the group is composed of Rubén Darío Pérez (vocals), Alciro Valentines (bass), Andres Guzman (guitar) and Gregory Henry (drums) and released their third recording: "No Moriré" (1998) .

In 2000, Rubén Darío Pérez and Alciro Valentines left the band. The band takes a break, which the guitarist Andrés Guzmán uses to record his first solo album, "Guandel" (2001), recorded and produced entirely by him. Changes continues for 2002; Luis Ignacio Contreras (bass) returns, who came to work with the legendary symphonic rock band Fiction, in his debut "Sobre El Abismo", released by Musea Records (France 2002), and added José Luis Hernández (guitar), from Boanerges along Joseph De Luca (vocals), who shared the band Ramsek, keeping Enrique de Gregorio on drums and Andrés Guzmán on guitar. This training presents an EP with two songs in 2004. A year after launching a new album under the title of "Profetas Del Fin" (2005). In 2006 published the CD "Al Borde Del Precipicio / No Moriré" at the hands of Ariah Records, which compiles the first and third album of the band.

In 2009 leaves the drumsticks Enrique De Gregorio, one of the founders of the group and instead enters John C. Figueroa, renowned musician participation in the national rock scene, which has gone by groups with the size of Fray, Distrust, Biophobia, Natastor and Stratuz, among other projects.

A band that began as a trio 30 years ago, numerous changes, a founding member and constant presence behind five albums, all that talk a bit about the history and importance of GRAND BITE in the heavy metal in Venezuela and Latin America in general.

2010 began with high expectations, which began in 2009 as a music hard work finally becomes the new album from Grand Bite "The Shadow", his sixth album in the face of changing times, a breakthrough in the career of this group, the answer that all his followers were waiting.

GRAND BITE IS: Andrés Guzman: Guitars • José Luis Hernández: Guitar - backing vocals • Luis Ignacio Contreras: Bass - backing vocals • Joseph De Luca: Vocals • Juan Carlos Figueroa: Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grand+Bite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.