Hometown: Monterey, CA 
Genres: Metal / Sludge / Post-Rock 
Label: Unsigned
 
Hailing from the Monterey Bay in central California, Granted Earth-Jon Ugale/Drums-Vocals, Becky Ugale/Guitars, Mallory Mickel/Bass, combines sludge-metal, post rock and other like minded influences to there brand of rock music. 

In winter 2009 a three song demo hit the Monterey music scene with songs, “When We Give In”, “Twist Of Fate”, and “Cycles”. Then in March 2010 the trio released their full lenth debut album entitled “Thermal Tide”. This 8 track instrumental album travels through a diverse group of songs written around a post-rock wall of experimentation with various metal and rock passages and progressions. Sludge one minute, into post-rock, then avant-garde metal to finish on an inclined stop, with various flute solo’s and synth-scapes creating a different but familiar feeling throughout the record. The CD is available online at cdbaby.com and grantedearth.bandcamp.com and more…

A year later after numerous gigs and a couple memorable north west tours, in March 2011 the band created their second release, a five song EP, “NOMAD”. Written this time with intent of vocality the EP runs through an electric tale of guitar riffery, driving drum progaganda and melodic bass pluckedelia, supplying subtle drifting breaksdowns that lead into blasts of climactic overide, and Jon from behind the drum kit in an aggressive onslaught of vocal tonality. This recording placed a fresh mark on the band’s most recent sound evolution.

Now availible at www.oscillatorrecords.com 
www.grantedearth.com 
www.grantedearth.bandcamp.com

A year later after numerous gigs and a couple memorable north west tours, in March 2011 the band created their second release, a five song EP, "NOMAD".  Written this time with intent of vocality this EP 
runs through an eclectic tale of guitar riffery, driving drum progaganda and melodic bass pluckedelia, supplying subtle drifting breaksdowns that lead into blasts of climactic overide, and Jon from behind the drum kit in an aggressive onslaught of vocal tonality. This recording placed a fresh mark on the band's most recent sound evolution.

Now availible at www.oscillatorrecords.com 
www.grantedearth.com 
www.grantedearth.bandcamp.com

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Granted+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.