The story of Gravity Shield started at some point during the year 2004 when Mika Korhonen (guitar) and Jarno Eskelinen (bass at the time) decided to start playing some good music with each other. Soon after that Jarnos older brother Erno (guitar) noticed his opportunity to sneak into a group that somehow started to look like a band. Because this was a group that originates from a small village, the natural continuity was to “persuade” friends into it so that the whole band would come together. Soon Janne Huttunen was found sitting behind the drum kit. This line-up smashed songs that concentrated on covers for quite some time until it became apparent that the group badly needed a vocalist.

So Janne decided to be the singer, Jarno jumped behind the drums and Mikas younger brother Niko was found to play the bass (talk about small circles huh?) and so the band was complete. In the early days the band was called Centre of Eternity, which in its all glorious glimmer was nothing more than a mere rip-off from the Ozzy Osbourne song of the same name. Rumour has it that the guys once tried to play with synthesizers but that story ended before it even started. The band still played covers for some time until little by little ideas for own songs started to take shape. At this point we were living somewhere between years 2005 and 2006. The year 2006 was surprisingly busy time even though Erno spent his days in the army, the true work however started in the following year. When it became clear that the focus was being moved from covers to own material, the band decided to change its name for something a bit more original. Henceforth the band was known as Gravity Shield. The year 2007 culminated in December on the first real public performance at K-Klubi where the band warmed-up the stage for another local act called Raven Claw.

The year 2008 started with high hopes. The band managed to get training facilities from the very heart of the city of Kuopio and more songs started to exist. The band even went to record a demo in the local studio owned by the youth center of Kuopio, which was supposed to be called “Theatre of Tragedy”. During the sessions in the studio however, the band realized that there were something wrong in the personal level and after series of conversations the roads between Janne and the rest of the band took a different direction. Because of this incident, the recently recorded demo never actually saw the light of day and was sent to the band archives.

From that point on the singing parts were divided with Mika and Niko, Mika mainly sang the clean parts and Niko did the howls and growls. In the beginning things worked smoothly with this new line-up, more songs were made and some shows were done in different parts of Kuopio during the summer of 2008. One of the absolute highlights was a show at Henry’s Pub in front of a nearly sold out audience at the IOP ’08 ROCKS event. At the end of the summer the band packed its gear and went to Outokumpu to record another demo which was about to be titled “Divine Wind”. But bad luck seemed to follow the band and right after the demo was completed, Mika and Niko said they’d had enough. So Erno and Jarno were on their own with a mere vision of the band in their hands.

The guys decided that this was not the end of Gravity Shield and search for new members started instantly, and not before long the new line-up was complete. Teemu Kauppinen, a long-time friend was found to play the guitar, this was an easy decision because Erno and Jarno had played with Teemu before in another cover-project. Teemu Tiainen, whom the gods sent from Savonlinna to aid us in our cause, picked the bass and the vocalist Arto Ala-Seppälä took his place behind the microphone. Arto has also been a member in a band called No More from Kuortane so the guy knew his business. At this point the band is more motivated, full of ideas, together as one and simply better than ever before. First proof of this was given when the band entered the band competition for local bands and went straight to finals. Time will tell what the future has in store for Gravity Shield, keep on rockin’! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gravity+Shield">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.