Sludge/doom quartet GRAVES AT SEA was formed in 2002 by friends Nick Phit and Nathan Misterek, with then-members Roger Williams & Steve Klatz (RIP). After self-releasing the demo Documents of Grief, they toured extensively and were quickly noticed by Greg Anderson of Southern Lord/Sunn, who released their 7" Cirrohosis/Atavist Arise in 2004. Later in 2005 the band released a split with friends Asunder on Life is Abuse (CD) and 20 Buck Spin (vinyl). In 2007 GRAVES AT SEA went through a line up change when Nathan moved to Oakland and Nick moved to Portland, OR. In 2008, after playing two final shows with Chiyo Nukaga (Noothgrush) on drums and Miguel Veliz (ex-Sourvein, The Roller) on bass, the band broke up. Four years later, however, they decided to reunite with Chiyo on drums and Greg Wilkinson (Brainoil) on bass, but due to touring constraints, Chiyo and Greg decided to step down.

2013 marked the band's first venture to Europe, with a lengthy tour, in addition to a string of West Coast performances. 2014 brought forth their first new material since 2005 - GRAVES AT SEA released a split LP with Sourvein on Seventh Rule records at the start of their second European tour (this time with Sourvein), a trek that also included appearances at Roadburn Festival and SWR Festival. The split with Sourvein was quickly followed by an EP on Eolian Records titled This Place Is Poison and numerous live US appearances, including performances at Maryland Deathfest and California's Day of the Shred Festival.

Now, after having joined forces with renowned independent label Relapse Records, GRAVES AT SEA are poised to unveil their long-awaited debut full-length, The Curse That Is, a tour-de-force of incredible magnitude almost 15 years in the making. Engineered by Greg Wilkinson (Noothgrush, Brain Oil) and mastered by Brad Boatright (Sleep, YOB), The Curse That Is effortlessly fuses colossal walls of feedback-laden sound with gargantuan riffs that crush and crawl with the weight of mountains alongside thunderous rhythms meant to tear a hole in this dying earth. Coupled with self-loathing lyrics of torment and demise, the listener is engulfed in wave upon wave of aural misery throughout the 70+ minute ride through hell. With The Curse That Is, GRAVES AT SEA are poised to unleash their strongest, most ear-shattering material to date.

GRAVES AT SEA are:

Nathan Misterek - vocals
Nick Phit - guitar
Bryan Sours - drums
Jeff McGarrity - bass

http://www.myspace.com/graves_at_sea
http://www.facebook.com/GravesAtSea <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Graves+at+Sea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.