Brian E'Lan Dicicco - Key board , Piano , Synth 
St. Lucifureva  - Vocals , Reading , story line 
Ronald Armand Andruchuk - Drums
Scott Conner - Bass 
Roger Macmillan Hall - Lead Guitar / Rhythm Guitar

GRAVESIDESERVICE is a Rhode Island based ambient black metal band that hit the stages in 03 but began as a two piece much earlier. The earliest recordings as with many bands have been lost, but it was done in a style compared to tangerine dream with real percussion. They later morphed into a heavily influenced King Diamond sound. Once again no recording exist for that stage. Then ultimately they later moved on to becoming a solid three piece which included drums, Piano and vocals making them one of the first to pioneer a heavy metal three piece with no guitars. They have never drifted far from the funeral-like atmosphere that they still retain. GRAVESIDESERVICE has released two full legnth albums, “Masters in Lunacy” and “Popes Pears”. Both have carried a heavy satirical sound poking fun at what they would call, “the false hopes of life”. “masters in Lunacy” was recorded by Armand (i.e. the drummer of GRAVESIDESERVICE) with 2 microphones total giving it a raw basement type sound. This album was a concept album that dealt with the many hopes and promises classical psychology would later not fulfill. “Popes Pears” carried the same elements of dark humor poking fun at the promises of the classical Inquisition and the falsely accused.  , GraveSideService  released its 3rd full length cd  February 14th 2011, RESURRECTION CEMETERY. Resurrection Cemetery contains 3 new tracks from the past that were never released ,  live performances,  and remastered tracks  . GraveSideService’s 4th full length cd release , FOG , it set to be released July 1st  and will be available in Compact Disk and limited print vinyl with full digital download code.
Scott Conner ( Xashur /Sun-o ) will be joining GraveSideService on bass for this album . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gravesideservice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.