Formed in 2005 by guitarist Phobos (AETERNUS, MALSAIN) and drummer Taakesjel, Gravdal is a Black Metal band firmly rooted in Norway’s legendary Bergen Scene.  A scene that over the years has spawned such seminal bands as GORGOROTH, ENSLAVED, IMMORTAL and TRELLDOM - to name but a few.   

Starting out initially with the idea of remaining a studio band, GRAVDAL recruited vocalist Galge and recorded the first demo, “Massegrav” in 2005.  However, shortly after the release of “Massegrav, it became obvious to the members that they wanted more from their music, and so a full line up was established with the addition of Specter on guitars and Daud on bass. Specter and Phobos began composing music together and with a now solid line up GRAVDAL hit the stage for the first time in 2006, and have since played with bands like TAAKE and DERIDE, amongst others.  

With their debut album “Sadist” mixed and mastered by ENSLAVED’s Herbrand at the Earshot studios, GRAVDAL inked a deal with Sweden’s Unexploded Records, and “Sadist” was released in 2008 to great reviews in the metal press world-wide.  
So what should you expect from GRAVDAL?  Well, the band performs “in your face” Black Metal; with lyrics that take as their theme the tragedy of a weak-willed humanity, and the despair into which it sinks due to its conceited misconceptions. 

But that is not the sum total of GRAVDAL by any stretch of the imagination.  The 2010 release of the band’s sophomore album “Torture Mantra” will show the band ready to demonstrate a new-found maturity in terms of both material and performance. And with guest vocals from SHINING’s Niklas Kvarforth, you can be sure that there will also be a few unexpected twists.

Line Up
Galge - Vocals
Phobos - Guitar 
Taakesjel - Drums
Specter - Guitar

GRAVDAL On The Internet
MySpace: http://www.myspace.com/gravdal
Facebook: http://www.myspace.com/gravdalofficial 
ReverbNation: http://www.reverbnation.com/gravdal
Management: http://www.myspace.com/viewfromthebacksofmirrors 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gravdal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.