Hailing from Buffalo NY, GRAVE DESCENT, combines horrific lyrics with a massacre of old school riffs, killer solos, tempo changes, death, thrash and doom to bring forth their brutal sound. The band has managed to capture the sound of classic death/thrash metal while adding a modern touch to the music along with crystal clean production values and superb musicianship. 

In February of 2009, Dennis John Glinski founded the band GRAVE DESCENT by responding to a deep desire to recreate the old-school death/thrash sound, that was ever so popular many years ago. The band has gone through some line-up changes in a quest to find the proper members who were dedicated to the old-school metal sound. Enter long time friend and band mate, Rich Ziegler on bass. In September of 2009, GRAVE DESCENT became a full band and in January 2010, a 3-song demo entitled The Resurrection, was recorded. The demo didn't quite capture the true sound of Grave Descent and in the following months, GRAVE DESCENT went through some additional member changes to refine their sound and direction. Finally in August 2010, a complete true line-up was achieved, with the addition of 2nd guitarist, Jack Owen (of Deicide, Cannibal Corpse). The guys in the band had known Jack from back in the Buffalo metal days, it only seemed right for him to jump on board. 

In November of 2010, the first live gig was performed and was a huge success as GRAVE DESCENT opened for national acts Cannibal Corpse and Dying Fetus. In January 2011, the band entered the studio and recorded a very strong 5-song EP that is presently being shopped to major labels along with minimal local distribution.  The have several upcoming shows that are solidified and are busy writing new material that guarantees to impress even the toughest critics.

In March 2011, Jack left to dedicate full time to Deicide and moved back to Florida. Adam Zebrowski  joined as 2nd guitarist and Grave Descent has moved forward creating Brutal Death Metal. 

Their line-up features Buffalo metal veterans: 

Dennis John Glinski, Vocals (of Tirant Sin, Carnal Dissection)
Mike Green, Guitar (of Leviathan, Moro’s Response)
Adam Zebrowski, Guitar (of Seize the Soul)
Rich Ziegler, Bass (of Tirant Sin, Carnal Dissection)
Dave Riccio, Drums (of R.U.L.E., Stonehed) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grave+Descent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.