Formed in a fucked up alley next to the dumpsters and meth labs in Southern California in 2000, Gravehill was spawned to bring back the true way of death fucking metal. The "Practitioners Of Fell Sorcery" was then unleashed upon the world. Only a few copies were made. These demons were inactive for a few years due to drug abuse, homelessness, incarcerations (stints in the Pen), or hiding from law enforcement and government agencies. In 2006 the maniacs were finally ready to continue the savage death noise and the second recording "Metal Of Death" was unleashed. A deal was made with Enucleation Records and the three "Metal Of Death" tracks were re-recorded along with two new tracks, the two part hymnal "The Advocation Of Murder And Suicide" which was released in July 2008. After numerous tours and also playing the local Southern California area, the next release on Enucleation Records was "Rites Of The Pentagram" the debut full length. Gravehill rereleased "Rites Of The Pentagram" in the Summer of 2010 through Ibex Moon Records. The second full length is called "When All Roads Lead To Hell", and was unleashed in May of 2011. The junior effort featuring expert shredders Hell Messiah and CC DeKill titled "Death Curse" was released in April of 2014. For touring information or band contact go to www.facebook.com/gravehill. For merchandise information or to buy the releases of Gravehill go to : www.darkdescentrecords.com or https://gravehill666.bandcamp.com. Oh and by the way, your mother sucks cock in heaven!

Line-Up =
Mike Abominator : Armageddon Vomits And Misanthropic Diatribes
CC DeKill: Decibel Axecutions
Hell Messiah: Axe Slinger
JT Corpse : Low Fidelity Carpet Bombing And Romantic Grave Violations
Thorgrimm : Per(con)cussive Assaults And Nasal Hellsaw

Discography:

"Practitioners Of Fell Sorcery" 2000

"Metal Of Death" 2007 Metal Horde Productions

"Metal Of Death / The Advocation Of Murder And Suicide" 2008 Enucleation Records

"Rites Of The Pentagram" 2009 Enucleation Records

"Rites Of The Pentagram" (Reissue w/ Metal of Death / The Advocation of Murder and Suicide EP & DVD extras) 2010 Ibex Moon Records

Afterparty Massacre Soundtrack ("If You Want Blood" by AC/DC) 2011 Ibex Moon Records

"When All Roads Lead to Hell" 2011 Dark Descent and Chaos Records

"Death Curse" 2014 Dark Descent Records



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gravehill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.