1) Duo of Adam Marshall and Christian Andersen (aka XI).

2) The five members of Graze Grew up in different parts of the world: USA, Canada, Italy and the Netherlands. Now based out of the Netherlands, the band puts their diversity and different backgrounds into their original songs. Their music is partly influenced by the atmosphere, the feeling and catchy melodies from the eighties with bands such as The Police, The Cure and U2. On the other side, the band members are also inspired by the roughness, honesty and deepness of the music from the nineties, with acts such as Pearl Jam, Live and Skunk Anansie. Graze are melting their different personalities, backgrounds and influences into a unique sound. The personal lyrics and emotional vocals of Liane Hoogeveen render the music of Graze accessible for a wide audience, without compromising originality. Finished off with a typical Dutch flavour, Graze brings you original and catchy tunes with an edge, full of energy and straight from the heart. 

Graze has done several studio recording sessions, which have been released on 2 EP's and their mini tour in the USA has been released on a live DVD. The band has built a strong live reputation in the Netherlands area with their energetic live performances, attracting a wide audience. Graze have played both national and international venues, small and large, festivals and have performed live on a number of radio stations.

In 2007, things have started to work out well for Graze. In March, Graze put out the mini-CD "Hesitate". It received positive reviews by a number of music web sites and magazines in the Netherlands, but also internationally. Furthermore, Graze has been picked up by a number of radio stations in the Netherlands, has shared stage with international touring bands such as "After Forever", has performed at the Midpoint Music Festival in Cincinnati (OH), which was endorsed by producer Erwin Musper, has gotten a number of positive reviews in national and international music magazines and perfomed live on Dutch National Radio during the finals of a composition competition. In 2008, the momentum is continued with a.o. live performance in the radio show of Giel Beelen on Dutch national radio and a nomination of the track "Forgive me" at the prestigious Hollywood Music Awards. In the beginning of 2009 Graze play in Italy and the UK (at the world famous Cavern Club) and are preparing new CD recordings.

www.graze.nl <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Graze">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.