#1
23 year-old Dane Morris is Great Dane, a drifter from Orange County with a taste for independent hip hop and an ear for sticky beats. A Low End Theory enthusiast who is newly signed to Alpha Pup Records, Great Dane is highly influenced by the D-I-Y aesthetic espoused by groups such as Odd Future, and is co-founder of beat collective TeamSupreme. His debut LP Alpha Dog was released on Alphapup records in 2013.

#2
Canadian eclectic indie rock group featuring members of Toronto groups Oldmandog, The Unseen Guest, Theresa's Sound-world and Trucks Leaving. Their first EP, Sharp Tongues Edging You Closer was released in 2011. 

#3 (Not sure if they're still active, leaving it here as a courtesy)
Starting off in September of 2009. Great Dane formed under creative direction of writer Sean McVerry. Stefano Guida, the best bass player in town, jumped on the Great Dane train early working with Sean on some bangin' ass tunes. Very nervous that he would like his ideas, Sean played with Brendon Caroselli, and hoped for the best. Not only did Brendon enjoy playing the songs, he bought Sean a delicious lobster dinner that night. Practicing and playing once at the Student Center. Great Dane began to record a 6 song E.P with famed producer and SKSC trombonist, Eric Holsten. Holsten, after listening to the songs, determined that horns would indeed be a good addition to the band. Sean and everyone else agreed. Who better to ask then jazz masters Andrew Cowie (Saxophone) and Andrew Russell (Trumpet) and member of Swingfish. The six quickly meshed and indulged frequently in the cuisine of Nicky's Pizza in White Plains NY. Playing a few shows around SUNY Purchase, Great Dane is now beginning to branch out and increase there fan support. It's piano, it's rock, it's pop, and it's Ffun. Waking up Slowly, The six song E.P is due very soon and will be available FREE at shows and online. Give us a chance, you wont be dissapointed. GREAT DANE, FOREVA <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Great+Dane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.