Greenhouse Effect is the name shared by a hip hop group and a psychedelic/stoner rock band. 

- The hip-hop group featuring the emcees Blueprint and Fess, and DJ Bombay on the turntables. Their album "Columbus or Bust!" is available for free download on their website, myspace.com/greenhousecrew . 

- The Psychedelic/Stoner rock band, whom began their journey in 1999 hails from Oakland, CA.  Current Members include: 
Lando - Vocals/Guitar/Landscapes
Greg Randolph - Bass
Priest - Drums
Their latest release for 2008 is an EP titled: "Ants in the Afterbirth."  This is approx. their 3rd cd output including two previous full lengths.
All members are active in the east bay, CA, stoner rock/psych scene playing in several different bands including, Brnr, WhiteWitchCanyon, and Moons of Cronos.


"Official" from the page

Formed in the late 90s, Oakland California's Greenhouse Effect stormed the Bay Area with a barrage of psychadelic laden stoner and doom. With an original line-up of founding members Eric "Lando" Hagen on guitar/vocals, Jason James/guitar, Mike Bummley/bass and Doug Weldy on drums, the bands live performance delivered a psychadelic early 70s rock vibe that quickly secured a place among the elite stoner bands of the time. Greenhouse Effects first release "Blast Shield Down" in 2001, cemented the band as one of the torch bearers of the stonerrock movement in Northern California. Recorded by Thilo Fehlinger at Trident Studios in Pacheco, Ca., the record was done in 5 days with the epic "Gildor" recorded live by default. With the release of "Blast Shield Down" on Hagen's own label Purple Astonaut Records, the album garnered rave reviews being called "the greatest acid-stoner-space-doom-rock record ever made" by Sleazegrinder Magazine 2001. The record also made the Stonerrock.com top 20 best albums of 2001. During this time some of the memorable highlights of their live shows were Eric "Lando" Hagen's Weedstock 2001 shows at the Paradise Lounge in San Francisco, Ca. Those shows which included Acid King, Canyon Creep, Totimoshi, Operator Generator, Gammera and El Buzzard among others would turn into a staging place for co-headliners Greenhouse Effect to unleash their Fuzzed-out sound. With Greenhouse Effects live perormance reputation growing, the band played memorable shows with Keelhaul, Gammera, Natas (Argentina), Bongzilla, Automatic Animal, Brainoil, Jumbos Killcrance, Blessing the Hogs, The Hitch, 16, Skinlab, Sourvein, HDR, Activator, and Spaceboy among others. In 2002 the band performed at Rob Leveys Stoner Hands of Doom IV and delivered a set of music from their yet to be titled second record. A hand shake deal with Jadd from Meteor City Records right after their set would be a quick but short lived success as injuries, line-up changes and other distractions would prevent the as yet to be recorded "Totalsonicfuzzdom" from ever being released on Meteor City. With Lando and Jason James the only original members on board and Greg Emmley playing bass, Eric Powers (Clay Wheels) would be recruited to play drums on "Totalsonicfuzzdom". With Jeff Pinn engineering, Greenhouse Effect would enter Zilla Studios in South San Francisco to begin recording. With musical and personal differences as well as other distractions surfacing, the fuzzdom sessions ultimately would be cut short with Greg Emmley leaving the band and James starting a band with members of Gammera called Tusk or Soot (The Secret order of Tusk). With an invite to play Stoner Hands of Doom 5 in Portland, Ore looming, Lando finished the loose ends and mastered "TSF" @Soundwave Studios in Oakland, Ca. with Jim Juhn. After a short break with Lando involved in other projects and needing to recover from extreme exhaustion both mentally and physically, Greenhouse Effect would ride again. "Totalsonicfuzzdom" was released on Purple Astonaut Records in Sept. of 2004. Intact with a new line-up, A cd release show@Bottom of the Hill in San Francisco, Ca. with Chris Corona of Floating Goat on the other guitar would once again bring the band to the forefront. Shows with Clutch, Bottom, Crisis, BRNR, Floating Goat and Hot Black Desiato to name a few would follow. With 2005 on the horizon, and members of the band doing other projects, Lando decided to put Greenhouse Effect on the shelf. Lando would form or join several other projects during this time including Grasshopper, The Centaurs of Divine Disco, Fuzzplow and The Moons of Cronos. Greenhouse Effect would lie dormant until 2006 when an invite to play Stoner Hands of Doom 7 in Mesa, Az. would once again create an opportunity to crank up the fuzzdom... ...... Priest from BRNR would join the band on drums as well as Greg Randolph a bay area musical mastermind on bass. Greenhouse Effect would appear @SHOD 7 and 8. With re-newed energy, Lando and the Effect would then begin work on what would be Greenhouse Effects 3rd studio album "Ants in the Afterbirth". The record was recorded @Sonic Room Studios in Livermore, Ca. with Tim Narducci (Spiral Arms, Systematic) engineering. Released in 2007 on Purple Astronaut Records the 4-song EP was dubbed "more stoner trickery and the best lyrics yet" by Adam Dunn of Sludgezine. In 2008 Lando again put the band on haitus and formed another stonerrock project called White Witch Canyon with Tim "Krete" Narducci on drums and vocals. in 2009 Greenhouse Effect celebrated their 10 year anniversary. Album number 4 is slated to have guest appearances, more fuzz, and a few suprises. No recording date has been set. May the fuzz be with you. .... "San Francisco’s Greenhouse Effect represents the greatest of all cliches, your best entertainment value. Combining the best elements of all timeless riff-based rock music (Clutch, Soundgarden and mid-80s Black Flag come to mind, with some good old fashioned Haight Ashbury psychedelia mixed in) Greenhouse Effect continues to develop into what could someday be the West Coast’s greatest underground metal band. I don’t just make this stuff up. See them now and thank me later". .... Matt Brown/Nada Mucho 2003 ....


 
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Greenhouse+Effect">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.