Greedy Invalid was founded in autumn 1994. It took two years until the first demo was released(Moan). The next record was made in 1997(The Cold of Past) and it was produced by Blackie, the guitar player of ROOT. The records gained a nice publicity.

          The next period for Greedy started in year 2000. In nearly completely new line-up, with clean male voice only, the last – 3rd – demo was recorded(Game is Drawn). The group was succesful in the popular rock competition “Rock Made in Gambrinus“. With new songs, the band performed on a famous Czech festival ”Noc Plná Hvezd“ . Three members left the group because of some disagreements.

          Another new line-up was recording the debut album Lost Letter. Doom metal slowly shapes into new form of doom rock. This CD was out in June 2002, it was on half-way to the current sound and face of the band. Simple and easy to remember songs, greater space for melodic aspect of the music and all this connected in the melancholic suit.

          In July, the second CD Meaning of Life, was out. It goes further in the track of its forerunner and developes the way further. Acoustic guitars gain their space and the group plays with emotions. In autumn Greedy Invalid made their first music video "Sarcastic" and then went on their first small tour in the Czech Republic.

          At the present moment new song for the third upcoming album Dancing Little Flames are recorded and the CD will be out in May. In summer Greedy were presenting their new songs on various open-air festivals and also Kurt, the new bass-guitar player started to play with the band live. And Catherine, a keyboard player, is another new member of the band.

Discography:
1996 - Moan (demo)
1997 - The Cold of Past (demo)
2000 - Game is Drawn (demo)
2002 - Lost Letter
2005 - Meaning of Life
2007 - Dancing Little Flames
2010 - Anna <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Greedy+Invalid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.