Greg Dulli (born May 11, 1965) is a singer and instrumentalist.

Dulli was born and brought up in a working-class suburb of Hamilton, Ohio. He is of Greek (father) and Irish (mother) descent. He first came to public attention in Cincinnati in the late 1980s with The Afghan Whigs, when Dulli joined D.C. transplant bassist John Curley and Louisville, Kentucky, guitarist Rick McCollum. Dulli's half-hour-long on-stage cigarette breaks, complete with running commentary on sexual politics and attempts at matchmaking at first enraged, but later fascinated the clientele.
Dulli's budding career in the rock and roll production business was halted as The Afghan Whigs began playing more and better gigs, drawing bigger and bigger crowds. The band was soon brought to the attention of Sub Pop Records in Seattle. Sub Pop's signing of The Afghan Whigs created quite a stir; they were the first non-Northwestern U.S. band to record for the label. The Whigs split in 2001.
In 1994, Dulli was a lead vocalist in the Backbeat Band, an alternative-rock supergroup that recorded the soundtrack to The Beatles biopic, Backbeat. Other members of the Backbeat Band were Thurston Moore (Sonic Youth), Don Fleming (Gumball), Mike Mills (R.E.M.), Dave Grohl (Nirvana, later Foo Fighters), and Dave Pirner (Soul Asylum).
In 1997, Dulli (with Ted Demme and director Mark Pellington) bought the movie rights to a book by Ann Imbrie called Spoken in Darkness but the film was never made. He is now the lead singer and main songwriter of the band The Twilight Singers who released their fourth album titled Powder Burns in May 2006.
Dulli is working with Mark Lanegan (Screaming Trees, Queens of the Stone Age, Mark Lanegan Band) in the project, The Gutter Twins. Lanegan also appears on The Twilight Singers new EP, A Stitch In Time. He released his first CD under his own name in 2005, Amber Headlights, and followed it with a live recording in 2008, Live At Triple Door.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Greg+Dulli">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.