There is more than one artist with this name: 

1) Grendel is a harsh ebm artist from Netherlands. They started out in 1997 under a different name, but due to the band splitting up the name was changed into the current one. VLRK continued under the name Grendel, which originates from a character from the old Anglo-Saxon tale 'Beowulf'.

In 2000 Grendel's first promo CD was released which included the Dutch dance floor hit 'Strangers'. Within a very short period of time the promo was being played at many locations throughout the Netherlands and internationally.

To follow this up, the "End of Ages EP" was released in 2002 and marked new territory for Grendel with tracks such as the international hit title-track "End of Ages", the pounding "Catastrophe" and the intriguing "Noisome". With the unorthodox and original use of orchestration, obscure samples incorporated with harsh and pounding EBM structures this release again recieved almost only great reactions from both the media and listeners and would set Grendel's sound for the future.

In 2003, Grendel recorded their second full-length release, entitled "Prescription : Medicide". This album took another step deeper into the world of [Grendel] with it's complex, yet harsh, pounding & danceable structures, dismal orchestration and distressed nature. It meant a big breakthrough for the band, recieving many great reviews, becoming album of the month in a.o. Zillo and Orkus plus reaching top 5 positions in underground charts world wide.

Later, "Soilbleed" was released, which instantly became an unmissable dancefloor classic. This gained a huge amount of support, great reviews and maintained top 5 positions in a.o. the DAC & DUC for maximum periods. As a consequence of this EP's success, the band was highly occupied with performances and tours world wide for the next year and a half.

In 2006, VLRK and new members found time to work on their third full length album entitled "Harsh Generation". This album marked new territory for the band, which a more matured sound and style, gaining more support and success & taking them to the top of the genre. After it's release in early 2007, this album remained on top 5 positions (often peaking at no. 3) on the DAC and GEWC and remained there for maximum periods of time.

Finally, Grendel is back in the studio, producing their upcoming EP "Chemicals & Circuitry" plus yet to be titled album, both set for release this summer on Infacted, Metropolis and Gravitator Records. With these new releases, Grendel verges further into new territories and continues to deliver cutting edge harsh EBM!

2) Grendel is a Finnish melodic death metal band who have released several self-financed demos and two albums: "Lost Beyond Retrieval" in december 2006 and "A Change Through Destruction" in October 22 via Firebox Records. 

3) Grendel is a Polish progressive rock band.

4) Grendel is a black metal band from Italy.

5) Grendel is a black metal band from the UK.

6) Grendel is a power metal band from Spain.

7) Grendel is a black metal band from Germany.

8) Grendel is a split-up folk metal band from Estonia.

9) Grendel is a hardcore/avant-garde metal band from France. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grendel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.