There is more than one artist with this name:
1. A Black/Death Metal band from Blue Mountains, Australia 
2. A Brazilian indie rock band lead by Rodrigo César (aka Rodrigo Guedes) (Killing Chainsaw) from Londrina, Paraná.
3. A pseudonym of German minimal electro artist Paul Kalkbrenner.

1. The Australian Grenade began in 1998 after guitarist, Nigel, then a member of two other underground Sydney metal bands, found three fellow metal maniacs, who knew their way around their instruments, to give spirit and form to music that he had begun writing literally years before. After considering a number of names, the band settled on Grenade as a fitting description of the assault their music conveys.
 
Grenade made their first live foray in Adelaide in 1999 as part of Metalmorphosis, an all-Australian twelve-band metalfest that saw them featured on a bill that also included Elysium, Stargazer, and Lord Kaos.

The band decided that instead of rushing into recording, they would focus on rehearsals and playing live, over the years participating in a legion of gigs in several states, playing alongside Deströyer 666, Gospel of the Horns, Incantation, Anatomy, Misery, Nunslaughter, Vomitor, Dungeon, Miscreation, and Urgrund amongst others.

In July, 2001 Grenade compiled their Rugged Rehearsal demo from rough, private recordings made over the two years preceding, in the form of a three-track tape and CD, the disc having two bonus tracks on top. In June 2003, Grenade released a 7" EP, Venom of God, featuring the title track and Carnivorous Lunar Activities, through the now defunct Australian underground metal label, Decius Productions. This was the first studio release for the band. June 2004 saw the release of another 7" EP: Hellsong, through the French label Aura Mystique. The band were at  work on their debut full-length album, The Howling Damned.

In 2006, the group disbanded for a brief period, before founding member Nigel announced that he planned to continue with the group.


2. Grenade started out as former Killing Chainsaw Rodrigo Guede's lo-fi project. Then a couple of years ago - already as a band - they released a self-titled album which summarized Guede's main influences: Neil Young, Neutral Milk Hotel, Kinks. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grenade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.