Grey Skies Fallen traces its roots back to 1996. A demo called "A Dark Serenade" was released that year under the band name Eve of Mourning. We changed the band name in Feb. 97.

Our debut album, "The Fate of Angels" was released in 1999 at the first March Metal Meltdown. The album was self-financed and released, but then picked up by small metal label Nightfall Records. It was the only album that original bassist Chris Montalbano appeared on. This is also the only album featuring Aaron Williams on drums.

2002 saw the release of our second album, "Tomorrow's in Doubt." It was again self-financed. A small Canadian label called Maelstrom released a few copies of the album on CD. Joining the band were college friends of Rick's, Jimmy White on bass, and Sal Gregory on drums. This album was heavier, more in the melodic death style. The songs were longer and more epic in nature.

We released our third album, again self-financed and released, "Two Way Mirror" in 2006. This album is a total 180 degree turn in style from Tomorrow's in Doubt, and features more clean, mellow songs than before. The 23-minute documentary "The Making of Two Way Mirror" can be found on the original pressing of the CD, and is now up on YouTube. This was the first album to be recorded by Keith Moore, and also the last album featuring Jimmy White on bass.

A few months after the release of Two Way Mirror, we went into the studio and recorded The Visionary single, which was an online exclusive track. Mary Saragoussi played bass on this track.

The EP, "Along Came Life" was recorded and released in late-2010. The EP features Paul LaPlaca on bass, and is also the last recording with guitarist Joe D'angelo, a founding member.

"Introspective," the 2012 EP release was unveiled on June 23rd. It can be streamed on the Grey Skies Fallen ReverbNation page, and is available for purchase on Bandcamp, as well as other sites like iTunes and Amazon MP3. 

This EP was recorded as a 3-piece with Rick Habeeb handling all the guitars. Dave Case of Helmet played bass on this recording.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grey+Skies+Fallen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.