Grief of Emerald are a Black / Death Metal band from Sweden. GoE was formed between 1990 and 1992. 

Robert joined on keys in '95 and they recorded a demo called "The Beginning", which was later released as a limited mini CD (500). Listenable Records offered the band a deal, and the band signed for 3 albums. The debut full length album called "Nightspawn" received very good response. Fredrik (drums) was kicked out and got replaced by a new drummer named Jonas. He joined a couple of months before the recording of the second CD entitled "Malformed Seed". The band did some touring around Europe and got a pretty good response. 

They played at the "Wave Gothic Treffen" in Germany (Leipzig) and the "Party San Open Air Festival" (also Germany). Gigs with Immortal, Marduk, Necrophobic, etc. GoE also headlined a festival in Finland. After all this the band took a break from touring and focused on new material completely. After the "Malformed seed" album, the band wrote "Christian Termination", their most accomplished album to date. Jonas started suffering from a shoulder problem (started in the studio when "Christian Termination" was recorded). He was replaced by a session drummer until he heals up. 

At the time of writing this, the band is entering the studio to record a tribute song to Celtic Frost. 

After a few months the band got back on tour with Bestial Mockery, Sear Bliss, Skyforger and Obtest. The tour lasted for only half a month because of various instrument problems and eventually the band refused to play in Helsinki and then got kicked out of the tour. Jonas' arm did not heal as expected, so Karl Karlsson was recruited as their new drummer. Robert Bengtsson  quit for personal reasons and Jonas Blom helped the band with keyboards for a while but left quite soon afterwards. The replacement and the new keyboard player is Lena Hjalmarsson from Cyphoria. Anders Tång has also left the band, and was replaced by Andreas Hedström from Descending.

In 2009 GoE put out a four track demo CD titled Holocaust, which follows the same style as Christian Termination. Following that, GoE released The Devil's Deep in 2011. It contains some of the material from Holocaust, some new material and some old material prior to the Christian Termination era. 

Their latest album was released in 2012 titled, It All Turns To Ashes.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grief+Of+Emerald">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.