Grim Demise are a thrashing fusion they call "Australian Bastard Metal”, 
a mix of melodic and harsh vocals, blackened thrash/death Metal and 
elements of doom. 

Hailing from the "Steel city", Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia. 

They have been searing their mark into the consciousness of the music scene since 2005, their 2006 Demo "Grim Demise" lingering in the local metal underground and receiving several thousands of views on Myspace. That batch of songs was often described by audiences as a "return to classic metal sounds", with favourable comparisons also made to the legendary metal bands Death and Bathory. 

Merely hearing the recordings of Grim Demise cannot convey the level of energy and passion they deliver with each live performance. One must simply be a part of it and experience for themselves. 

Their new studio album "Nameless Graves", available via bandcamp, was released December 2012 after many years of anticipation from local fans and contemporaries. Produced and engineered by local music wizard Ryan Huthnance (formerly of Mortal Sin, presently kicking asses with The Seer and Chrome Bison) it is an eleven track journey into horror, fear, darkness, dystopia and destruction, featuring material culled from the band's live sets from the last few years playing live to local metal audiences. 

In the time since band's inception in 2005 they have played with many renowned live acts such as; Origin (USA), AEON (SWED), Mors Principium Est (Fin), Gotsu Totsu Kotsu (Japan), death metal legends Grave (SWED), as well as local heavy hitters Psycroptic, Frankenbok, Lord, Daysend, The Amenta, New Project, Our Last Enemy, Ink, Voyager, Mortal Sin, Double Dragon, Darker Half, The Berserker and Tourettes, to name a few.

Grim Demise recently embarked on their first international tour, playing a series of live dates in Japan for B'N'F production's epic Extreme Death Feast tour vol. 1, with several top notch local and international metal bands. 

New material is in the works for a follow up release to Nameless Graves, with a textured hybrid of metal styles presently emerging. Grim Demise are available for live shows and are preparing for their next assault on Aussie metal fans. Burn it all! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grim+Demise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.