GRIMNESS 69 were born in the 2001 with the name of Grimness
from the ashes of VALLIUM, an old hardcore-grind band.

Nuclear Ripped Pig and Tetsuo Hirashi Mitakawa founded the band in January 2001 and they called the infamous hammerman Cianus
The Anus at drum. At the beginning was only chaos and noise,
violence and nihilism, with a great aim in the mind:
DESTROY USELESS HUMAN FUCKIN RACE!

The main influences came from bands like Anal Cunt, 7 Minutes
of Nausea, Gore Beyond Necropsy mixed to nihilo speed punk like
Rupture, Nihilist and so on.

With this line-up they played some gigs in some fuckin squats and
clubs in Italy with tons of punk, grind, hardcore and metal bands;
and in the spring of 2001 they recorded some stuff for 1st split 7"
with GROINCHURN from South Africa, on Ecatombe Produzioni,
the label of Nulcear Ripped Pig.

In 2002, after some other gigs, they went on minitour in Italy
with great mince grinders MALIGNANT TUMOUR from Czech republic
/ Holland. In december of 2002 Grimness was in studio for the second time, to release new fuckin brutal songs.

This stuff was put out on a split 7" with histeric gore maniacs VISCERA from Australia ( released by Ecatombe Prod) and on a split cd with portoguese brutal gore grinders HOLOCAUSTO CANNIBAL, released
by GRINDMIND RECORDS from Italy. This stuff sound more better than previous releases with more long and structured songs. But ever with powerfull and violent attitude and approach and a lot of short songs
with tons of blasphemy and nihilism!

In the summer of 2003 Grimness played at great OBSCENE EXTREME FEST in Trutnov, Czech Republic with tons of cool bands like DEAD INFECTION, MACABRE, INGROWING, DENAK and many more.

Unfortunately, during the winter of 2003, the drummer Cianus The
Anus left the band and after a couple of months, was called the new drummer Jesus Christ Hooker. He comes from black-death style but
he wants fight against human race too. This new warrior bring some
fresh and new ideas in the band.

With this new line-up Grimness go on tour on september 2004
together with DEFORMED from Poland, in the east europe and on September 2005 supporting the spanish Avulsed during 15 shows around all Europe: this time with the new name of GRIMNESS 69.

During October - November 2005 Grimness 69 recorded their debut "GRIMNESS AVENUE 69" and in 2006 signed a deal with the Spanish Grotesque Productions for the release of this first full lenght album.

In the same year the band has supported the release of the album
with 20 dates around Europe with Pungent Stench, Gorerotted
and Sinister working with some session player at the bass guitar.

Current Line Up:

Lord Nuclear Ripped Pig: Vocals
Emperor Tetsuo Hirashi Mitakawa: Guitar and Vocals
Jesus Christ Hooker aka The Hammer of God: Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grimness+69">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.