Grimoir is a Slovenian black metal band with some progressive death illness together. Sometimes its hard to define them.

Our journey begun in late Autumn of the year 2006, when five siblings spawned from the same music demon, started the endevour to bring darkness back to its former glory. Channeling the uncunny black powers through the ancient books of wisdom, we explore the feared dark dimensions to hinder the weaker minds. 

The five focal points of the unholy circle are Mgla and Svarog/Ninib  former members  of the now dormant black metal band Torka and Simurgh, Gremmsekath, Hexer former members of the now dead pagan/black metal band Skorbut.    

At the beginning the band was formed as a side project but soon it has matured to being the main manipulatory tool of the five. They do not create plain black metal music but use a more methodical aproach for sculpting their message. In their music one can find glimpses of death and progressive styles intricately woven into the black fabric.    

It has been three years of rehearsing, playing gigs and enstablishing their place in the black Slovenian scene. Amongst many concerts endured, one must mention the one they have giged with the Swedish legends Watain. In the meantime they were preparing for the release of their first physical proof of their struggle. So in the late 2009 they recorded and self released their first demo featuring four songs. Later in the beginnings of the year 2010 they got together with other Slovenian black metal bands Somrak, Krvnik and Samomor and decided to make a split. Each band contributed one song for the later released 12” vinyl disc entitled Covenant of the Undivine released by Mater Tenebrarum.

For the future they oversee a constant evolvement of their music, lots of gigs, making new material and finally the recording and release of their first CD in the near future…. 


Ave! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grimoir">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.