Grimlet comes into existence in 1999, when Nazgul and Alex, former members of a local band called Sacrum, decide to give form to some of the ideas they had, concerning a more extreme type of metal. They recruit Jordo (also ex-Sacrum) and Nero, a long time friend, and start working on some of the material they had.

Gorth, guitarist in Milraz, joins the project some time later. The biggest problem was finding a drummer that would suit the bands way of making music. This happened only three years later, when Luis takes over the drummers seat, after his former band, Nonsense Package, split up.

With the bands line-up finally complete and after much composing work, Grimlet plays the first gigs and finds consistency as a band.

In October 2003, Grimlet starts recording at Echosystem Studios, with the producer Rui Santos (Oratory,Timeless). This was considered by the band members as a very demanding, but also a very rewarding period for all the musicians.

After a very difficult and stressful production period, the CD Darkness Shrouds the Hidden is released and presented live at the final stage of Rock music Metal Challenge, at the Hard Club, in Oporto, in September 2004. Since the band still does not have any contract with any label, the CD has been released by the band itself.

Some time after the Hard-Club gig, guitar player Jordao left the band and then they had to find a replacement. In 2005, Rui Todo Bom joins Grimlet`s line up and the band begins the CD live promotion.

Besides being currently promoting the CD Darkness Shrouds the Hidden live, the band is promoting new material, and working hard to deliver stronger, more extreme and more professional performances every time Grimlet gets on stage.

You can contact GRIMLET by e-mail: grimlet@sapo.pt or by phone: +351936019770-Rui; +351963374187-Luis 

http://www.myspace.com/grimlethorde <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grimlet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.