The Dutch metal scene is the pinnacle of brutality. And an excellent example of this brutality comes in the form of 4 guys from the metropolitan area of Beilen, in the Netherlands. They wanted to form a band that would be a nod to old school death and grind, namely bands like Repulsion, Carcass, Entombed, Morgoth, Gorefest, and Napalm Death. The answer they were looking for would be in a project they would name Grind Minded.

The vision was made a reality. The lineup would be Jerry on guitars and vocals, Erwin on drums, Henke on bass and vocals, and Robert on guitar, with the former three going under the monikers "Knerry, Bakvet, and Balrog" respectively. Fate would run its course however, and over time, there were to be many lineup changes, one of them resulting in Robert's departure. Grind Minded's fury would however soon be released to the masses. They found their next mainstay in David, who would do the vocals on the 2001 debut 6 song EP "Your Suffering Will Be Legendary". The EP was released on Filthy Records, and got some awesome reviews. Something was amiss however. The band needed another guitarist to fill out their sound, and in 2003, Mathijs (ex Vital Urge, Bludgeoned) was brought on board as their second axe slinger, along with new vocalist Wim (ex Cerebral Death, Vital Urge, Bludgeoned).

With the new personnel changes came a new album, recorded at Sing Sing studios in 2004. It would be called "9mm Facial", and would be the band's finest work to date. Grindminded would go on to play numerous gigs in The Benelux, with the likes of Desensitised, Prostitute Disfigurement, Eighteen Visions, and the New Orleans sludge metal band Crowbar. However one more change of fate was to occur.

God Dethroned needed a new bass player, and Henke, who was good friends with them, had been filling in during this period. Unfortunately, playing in both bands at the same time proved to be impossible. Therefore it was decided that he would remain with God Dethroned, and that decision would bring a new bass player into the fold; enter Jasper Bolderdijk from Grinroth, who would remain with the band up until shortly after the completion of 2007's "Domestic Violence", when he would leave the band due to musical differences, and be replaced by local bassist Gea Mulder. And so it would be. Grind Minded is a prime example of fury, brutality, and old school death metal. This fact is apparent in their name alone. They are approaching their 10 year anniversary, and are only getting stronger on the scene.

In addition, the tracks "Fuck off and Die" and "Domination" have been featured on various compilation cds, the former track being on the "Sounds From the Grave" sampler released by Open Grave Records. In December 2006 the band recorded a 3 track promotional disc at Freddes Dirty Bird Studios, and in late 2007, Grindminded has released their debut full length album on Open Grave Records entitled "Domestic Violence". They are also currently writing new music for an MCD to be released at a future date. Get ready to take a battering, because Holland's most brutal has just taken over!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grind+Minded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.