Multiple bands/artists go by the name Grin.

1. an early 70s American rock band best-known for featuring Nils Lofgren on guitar;
2. a two-piece psychedelic stoner band from Berlin (drums and bass);
3. a Dutch band based around musician and songwriter Maarten Veldhuis
4. an independent alternative rock band based in Chicago, now known as Quasar Wut-Wut;
5. a hardcore band from Wilkes Barre, PA, featuring members of United Youth
6. a band from Waterford, Ireland, in the early 90's.

1) Grin was an early 70s rock group based in the Washington D.C metro area whose debut release came out in 1971 on the CBS/Spindizzy Label. The group featured a 19-year-old prodigal alumni of Walter Johnson High School in Bethesda, MD, that being Nils Lofgren on guitar. By their fourth album they were on A&M records, this disc was called "Gone Crazy" and was produced by David Briggs, also known for his work with their pal Neil Young. The song Beggar's Day from this album was also covered by Nazareth. When Grin dissolved in 1974, Lofgren went on to play with Crazy Horse and also Bruce Springsteen's E Street band. He's also had a prolific solo career.

2)  Grin is  two-piece, nasty behemoth, howling from Berlin. A hallucinogenic trip through massive walls of deep roaring bass thunder, relentless cannonball drum hits and gut-wrenching heaviness.

3) Grin was a Dutch band based around musician and songwriter Maarten Veldhuis. The band released one album in 1986 entiled 'A View From the Valley'. In 2003 a collection entitled 'Anthology 1984-1987' was released. Maarten Veldhuis later recorded under his own name and under the name Larry Cook.

4) Grin was the original name of an independent, Chicago-based band Quasar Wut-Wut. They produced one album, Fizzle Out and Fly Right, under that name, before realizing that it was already taken by the 70s group and changing it to Quasar Wut-Wut.

5) Grin was a hardcore band from Wilkes Barre, PA, featuring members of United Youth

6) Grin was a band from Waterford, Ireland, in the early 90's. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.