More than one group is listed as 'Grind'.

After the unfortunate breakup of Jailhouse in the early 90's, Danny Simon started to hatch the plans for his new project entitled GRIND in 1993. Recruiting WARRIOR bass player Kelly Pattrik,  FEMME FATALE  drummer Bobby Murray and eventually coming across his soon to be best friend, guitarist and songwriting partner Greg Leslie -  the band was set to reclaim a piece of the Sunset Strip magic.  

Deriving influence from the great bands of the 70's, GRIND could be more categorized in with the likes of Aerosmith, Led Zeppelin & Deep Purple. The musicianship is flawless and the songwriting is great as the band drops it in the pocket and knocks the snot right out of the speakers. There is no doubt you can hear the collective passion on every note of every song that encompasses 'Propaganda Nation'.

Gaining national notoriety and acclaim through such major publications as Metal Edge, GRIND we're a hot new band on the rise. They spent countless hours and days refining their craft and playing gigs throughout the Los Angeles area on a consistent basis - Danny and the boys were on their way again until the day of the unfortunate plane crash that took the life of guitarist Greg Leslie (another great musician taken in his prime). The CD is a tribute to him and the great music this four piece put on tape.

For the original band GRIND, see "GRIND (tm)"...

Others are:

1)GRIND (グラインド) is a japanese visual kei band formed in 2003.
The members are:
Vocal - [K]ray
Guitar - TAKU
Guitar - Kazkey
Bass - Kenzi
Drums - 祀-Toshi-

2)Notably the songs "Hand", "The Dying Man", "Colour", "I Lust You", "Precious Internal" and "Slide" are songs by Mansun's Paul Draper recorded by his previous musical project.  They were active in the early 90s only.

3)Danish rock group active in the mid 1990s
Members:
Peter Buur: Vocals
Kim G. Hansen: Guitars - Synthesizer
Jens Danielsen: Guitars
Jacob K. Leth: Bass
Andreas Jørnvil: Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.