There are more than 1 artists with the name Gringo:

1 - In case anyone still needs reminding that California is a sun-drenched paradise with a laid back mentality and great surf, one listen to Gringo’s upcoming album The Shores should be enough to sufficiently drive the point home.

The Northern Californian garage rock outfit is the brainchild of San Diego native Ryan Gillespie, who has spent his time to date between Redding and his birthplace embracing those ideals. Before he could even swim, Gillespie was hanging ten from the front of his uncle’s surfboard and has since grown into the embodiment of his easy going, fun loving home state. Gringo’s ten-track debut is a collection of stories from the last year and a half of his life on the west coast.

First single, Down South, features a reverb so wet you practically feel like you’re out in the waves with Gillespie. Overtop a sun-stricken, lazy groove, the singer/guitarist tells the story of his most recent move from Redding back ‘down south’: a trip that lasted just long enough for him to pen this album in its entirety. The “she” in question is Gillespie’s now-fiancée, whom he had met in Redding before making the trip, and who offered a little more substance to the singer’s short-sighted plans for a south coast life of surfing and music.

The band will be celebrating the single's release on January 27th at Alberta Street Pub in Portland.

2 - Gringo is a stoner rock band

Gringo, from Cleobury Mortimer in Shropshire, are the twisted end result of a combination of influences ranging from Iommi to Einstein, hangovers to horsepower, space cadets to space exploration; unhindered by genre cliches whilst remaining true to the heritage of Midlands heaviness

3 - Gringo Is a progressive rock band. 

They were originally formed in 1968 as 'The Toast'. In the spring of 1970 Toast abandoned the old, tired routine and changed their name to Gringo eager to explore the "new freedoms" offered by the burgeoning progressive movement. In March the following year Gringo signed a deal with MCA to record an album and single. In 1972 the bass player left the band, and even though there were the plans for it, sadly there was to be no follow-up album to their promising debut from the previous year.

4 - Gringo is Chicago three piece band.

Gringo live in a rundown shack near the Kennedy Expressway in Chicago, Illinois, strewn with the fetishes and cynical attitudes of late 20th century Americana. They roast the dark sides of folk, country and blues into an eerire and potent blend, reminiscent of early X and Gun Club.

The songs on their two albums, Gringo and Combine, range from revenge-filled waltzes and depraved ballads to feedback-laden rock destruction.

5 - Samuel Gerena Mange, better known as "Gringo" in the music industry, is a man with great talent and creativity who with his now ex-group member Baby rasta, has endured an extensive and lucrative music career.His beginnings are in the goverment housing projects Las Gladiolas in Hato Ray.A county of San Juan, Puerto Rico.Gringo and his cousin, Manec, went to visit a prominent D.J, D.J Herbert who was known for his mix tapes and his house parties. With the help of a cassette recorder and a mic, Gringo started laying down his first recording as a rap artist. Shortly after Gringo and his ex-partner Baby Rasta entered a talent show in the capital city of Puerto Rico where they took first place in all categories. They started making guest appearences un different musical productions in a movement known today as "Underground Music"He started his career in 1988, and along with D.J Playero and Vico C, were one of the first reggaeton artists. Even so, he failed to get much recognition. By 1992, reggaeton was extremely popular among the underground scene. Due to its obscene and vulgar lyrics, the Puerto Rican government tried to eliminate it completely. Baby Rasta y Gringo, along with Tempo, responded by producing songs aimed at the government.and were succesful in doing so.

Gringo throughout his carrer has visited different countries and states in the U.S giving him the gift of his music.He has visted places like Venezuela,Colombia,D.R,Honduras,Chile,Peru,Nicaragua,and states Like New York, New Jersey Pennslyvania, Massachusetts,Florida,California,Washington D.C,Indiana,Illinois,Neveda, North Carolina,Texas, Georgia, and in Canada Toronto.and i love to travel all those were very great places with great fans and if possible i would to it again.

In Purto Rico he had the oppurtunity to partivipate in the American D.J's Convention,celebrated every year at The Arena Pier 10 where he and his ex=partner did the opening act for Shady-Aftermathrecording artist 50 cents.They were also offered ro open his show in Carolina Puerto Rico.

Besides being a established singer Gringo also deals acting,He Participated in a made for television movie called 'La Casa Embrujada', and now holds on important role in the up incoming Blockbuster movie 'Telento De Barrio", produced bu the well known reggaeton artist Daddy Yankee.

During his 15 years in the reggaeton business.Gringo has given his all to his fan base and the time has come.Everything is in place for his Album release and his first as a solo artist in the production "El Independiente" Samual Gerena with his own record label G-Music joins forces with Flow Music to release the Greatest Album of 2007 and this will also be his first production in which he instills his talent as a musical producer.

GRINGO: In my new album you will see a much more mature Gringo with a new style without forgetting my roots of aggressivness. I have successfully fused different Genres of music without loosing the foundation of reggaeton.Ihave also had the opportunity of writing all of my songs, something i have never done before.This is a new beginning for me.but i know with the help from the Almighty .I will be successful.Thank you all and God Bless. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gringo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.