There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Grotesque was a Swedish death/black metal band formed in Gothenburg, Sweden  in September 1988 from the remains of Conquest by Kristian Wåhlin (Necrolord) and Per Nordgren (Virgintaker) with the addition of Tomas "Tompa" Lindberg (Goatspell). The band was however short-lived and recorded a few demos and an EP. After the demise of the band Lindberg and Svensson started At the Gates, while Necrolord created his own band Liers in Wait and focused more on creating artwork for several bands including Dissection and Emperor. In 1996, three members, Goatspell, Necrolord, and Offensor got back together and recorded two songs for the release of a compilation album, which was later re-released as a split album with At the Gates EP Gardens of Grief.

Grotesque briefly reformed in 2007 for a single invite-only concert on January 26 in Stockholm, to celebrate the publication of Daniel Ekeroth's book Swedish Death Metal. Nirvana 2002 and Interment also reunited for the concert.

Discography:
    * Ripped from the Cross (Demo, 1988)
    * The Black Gate is Closed (Demo, 1989)
    * Incantation (EP, 1990)
    * In the Embrace of Evil (Best of/Compilation, 1996)


2) Grotesque is a Hip-hop band from United States.

3) Grotesque is a Hip-hop artist from Norway.

4) Grotesque is a Brutal Death Metal band from Perth, Western Australia. 
GUITAR - Marc Hawkins   DRUMS - Trevor Owen
BASS - Simon Muller   VOCALS - Dan Coombs 

Their debut album entitled "Museum of Human Disease" (Released November 2007 on Prime Cuts Music Australia) is a must for all Death Metal fans. Especially those of Decrepit Birth, Suffocation, Visceral Bleeding and Necrophagist. With a ferocious live performance and sound, it is easy to see why this band has become one of Australia's finest.

Grotesque was formed in 2004 by Marc Hawkins (Guitarist) with the intention to create brutal and original death metal. With the help of his close friends Trevor Owen (Drums), Simon Muller (Bass) and Tarren Whitfield (Vocals), Grotesque quickly stated working hard on writing material and began playing a string of live shows and killer supports, after nearly 5 years together Tarren Whitfield decided to leave the band due to personal and musical differences. A replacement was not far away with Daniel Coombs stepping in to take the front man role.

Since their time in the Australian metal scene they have supported such bands as Cannibal Corpse, Nile, Suffocation, Dismember, Psycroptic, Decapitated, Obituary, Fuck I'm Dead, The Berzerker, Alarum, Contrive, The Amenta, Carcass, Fleshgore, Akercocke, Blood Duster, Metalstock in Sydney, An Australian tour with Kataklysm and a various line up of killer local bands.

In May 2010 Grotesque released a self titled EP containing three brutal tracks featuring the new vocalist Daniel Coombs. 

Grotesque are ready to infect death metal across the country....and beyond.....

5) Grotesque is a Grindcore band from Indonesia. They appeared on a Split 3 way with Busuk and Tumor Ganas.

6) Grotesque was a Brutal Death Metal band from Los Angeles, California, United States, formed in 2005. They disbanded in 2006. They released two albums: Cannibal Holocaust (2005) and Futile Hostilities (2006).

7) Grotesque is an experimental music project created by Assente and Antihero in 2021. Both coming from a previous collective called HMG, which they also founded, their style blends in techno and trance sounds with real instruments, taking inspiration from all kinds of underground music such as noise , witch house and  disco . Based in Milan, Assente and Antihero are highly influenced by the atmosphere surrounding big cities, creating a musical portrait of those glass skylines and foggy streets. Video-games and all around 2010s culture plays a big role in their aesthetic. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grotesque">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.