Many bands have played on the stages of New York City and if we look east of this great city, we see Long Island, home to the Death Metal band GrotesqueUphoria. Rooted to the area that has founded such legendary Death Metal bands such as Suffocation and Pyrexia, GrotesqueUphoria has continued the tradition of what has been categorized as the Long Island Death Metal sound.

The history of GrotesqueUphoria is a long and complex one, consisting of many former members spanning back almost a decade. If we trace back the history of the current line-up, we’ll see that the members have previously been in such NY bands as Butchery, Exuviate, Abhorrence, Immortal Suffering and S.P.O.R.E., to name a few. Previous GrotesqueUphoria releases include "Euphoric Discordance" in 2002, and "Conquered By Corruption" in 2004.

From July 2005 to July 2006, GrotesqueUphoria's 3rd studio release, "Bred To Be Your Enemy", was recorded and finalized. During that time, several line-up changes were made to the band. Recording the Bass and Vocals was Sam Lara, on Guitars and Vocals was Doug Randazzo, on Drums and Vocals was Gabe Madsen, and on Guitars was Leo Bakman. Zoth Ommog was featured as a guest vocalist recording the back-ups on the title track Bred To Be Your Enemy, as well as performing the vocals on the track entitled Crucified. In February 2006, Doug parted ways with GrotesqueUphoria and the remaining musicians reconstructed the formula to consist of Sam Lara on Guitars and Vocals, Gabe Madsen on Drums and Vocals, Leo Bakman on Guitars, and Zoth Ommog on Bass and Vocals.

2009 saw the departure of Zoth Ommog from the Grotesqueuphoria line up. The remaining 3 musicians continued to push forward, and write new material while searching for that necessary fourth member to complete the traditional Long Island Death Metal sound. In May of 2009, they found their new band member, guitarist Kim Hong Don. With Kim and Leo handling the guitars, Sam now returns to playing the Bass and doing all the Vocals. With their line-up complete once again, Grotesqueuphoria has now returned to the stage with a new arsenal of songs, and a new CD is currently in works. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grotesqueuphoria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.