Groupthink work up vast drones of machinic elegance buttressed by windswept atmospheres and the odd rhythmic pulse. A duo comprised of Darren Bergstein (iPhone synths, laptop, found objects, wayward percussives, voice) and Edward Yuhas (guitar, loops and processing, iPhone synths), Groupthink improvise with wild abandon, inaugurating electroacoustic soundscapes by marrying objects acquired with objects found. The resultant pieces fluctuate between rough-hewn ambience, computer tribalism, and experimental atmospherics.

Involved with electronic music in numerous capacities for over four decades, Darren Bergstein operates as a multi-hyphenate artist, a historian, archivist, writer, publisher, event organizer, concert promoter, and performer. He’s published two magazines (i/e and its successor, e/i) between the years 1989 and 2006, has contributed to countless others (including Resonance, Signal to Noise, and Perfect Sound Forever, amongst many), and continues to own and operate both the Periphery label and the One Thousand Pulses concert series, which hosts regular events for electronic & experimental music in the Northeast area, including New York City, Hackensack, and Philadelphia. Bergstein’s always approached music as texture, and this keeps him forever busy immersed in looking and availing himself of a gallery of unusual, unheard-of sounds.

Edward Yuhas is a guitarist, live-looper, and electronic device enthusiast and has been playing/performing for 10+ years. His appreciation of progressive rock began upon hearing the opening phrases of King Crimson’s "21st Century Schizoid Man" at age 16. The music of Yes, Rush, and Genesis further beckoned him on to discover the myriad worlds of texture and nuance he craved in music. Influences include such ambient-electronic artists as Ian Boddy, Steve Roach, and Erik Wollo, with a special nod to Robert Fripp, Edgar Froese, Fennesz and numerous other exploratory guitarists. When he's not performing or listening to music, Yuhas indulges in books, film, photography, contemporary architecture and escaping silently to the woods...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Groupthink">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.