There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Grunt was formed in Finland during spring 1993 to create hard audio filth. Its early incarnations operated with few other names, before settling into Grunt and making the first officially published works. After 20 years of activity, it is still going strong. Various styles of noise electronics are always hammered with such pressure it usually transforms into known Grunt-noise, even if new methods and approaches are added. Various interests, moods and approaches and different kinds of topics has been used during the years. Strong visuals and lyrics are the most well known to people.

Grunt was formed in Finland during spring 1993 to create hard audio havoc. Its early incarnations operated with few other names, before settling into Grunt and making the first officially published works. After 20 years of activity, it is still going strong. Various styles of noise electronics are always hammered with such pressure it usually transforms into known Grunt-noise, even if new methods and approaches are added. Various interests, moods and approaches and different kinds of topics has been used during the years. Strong visuals and lyrics are the most well known to people.

Grunt is tightly connected to the vision of Freak Animal Records label and has also handful of other forms, what can be understood as projects of their own or simply branches slightly separated from the main project.

2) Grunt is a goregrind outfit from Portugal. They were formed in 2010 and they released their debut album "Scrotal Recall" in 2011.

Band Info

3) Grunt was a Thrash metal band from New Jersey, USA. They released a self titled demo.

Band Info

4. Grunt is a grindcore band from Great Falls, MT. They have released a tape, numerous splits, and are about to release a full length LP. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Grunt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.