Born and raised in Seattle, Washington, 21-year-old MC Grynch first discovered Hip-Hop in elementary school when a classmate let him borrow a tape of Dr. Dre's classic, The Chronic. From that point on, it was a wrap as he became completely immersed in Hip-Hop music and culture, listening to and studying everything from Snoop Doggy Dogg's Doggystyle to Mobb Deep's The Infamous. It wouldn't be long before Grynch would try his hand at writing rhymes himself at the age of 10.

He spent the next few years learning his craft and released his first project, an EP titled The 7 Deadly Sins, during his senior year of high school in 2004. The project's release was limited but it generated a buzz big enough for more than a few people to take notice of Grynch's potential as an artist. He released his debut LP, This Is What I Do, in 2005. The album was received well within the Northwest Hip-Hop scene, with its lead single "So Free" receiving spins on both KUBE 93.3 FM and X104.5 FM.

As a follow-up to This Is What I Do, Grynch released a mixtape with DJ Stylz in 2006 titled How The Grynch Stole Hip-Hop Vol. 1. He released yet another mixtape in 2007 with DJ Nphared titled Heat. His sophomore LP, My Second Wind, is scheduled for an early 2008 release.

Grynch has shared stages with a variety of national artists including Little Brother, Joe Budden, C-Rayz Walz, Mac Mall & Blue Scholars. He has also collaborated with a number of notable artists including Dogg Pound affiliate Bad Azz, Geologic of Blue Scholars, Macklemore, D.Black, Neema of Unexpected Arrival, Fatal Lucciauno & Ricky Pharoe. In addition, Grynch has been featured on numerous projects and compilations including Reigncraft Vol. 6: Gotta Do It! on which he has the opening track, "That's Hip-Hop." The song received spins on both KUBE 93.3 FM and KEXP 90.3 FM as well as Shade 45 on Sirius Satellite Radio. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/grynch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.