Concept: Guahaihoque is the spirit of death, keeper at eternity´s threshold. . He preserves |n the depth dominions of his sacred lagoon the archaic flame of life and death, eternal and ethereal. it is soul in good and evil... it is us, and nature all with time and space, also representing a spiritual path onward the magnificence of human being, as sons of sun we´re, holding on values and principles of memory and ancient tradition.

Many years of efforts & battle to preserve the core of our music passed by, as we introduced ancestral woodwind instruments, as: “Quena-flute, Quenacho-flute, Sikus, Panpipe, Zampoña, Malta”. These native instruments add a mystical & unique spiritual core to the whole Ancient Epic sound.

Guahaihoque constructs its music and sound as a sinergy of various artifacts of Metal “Death / Black / Thrash / Doom / Heavy” and ritual ancestral music originary of this continent... the concept is still growing, as result we have made a recall to our forefathers through emotional & dreaming songs, full of honour, pride & glory, with millenary spirit almost forgotten by today..s mankind, so we can´t deny our origin, legacy and knowledge, a gift from our forefathers, it´s in our soul.

Biography: Guahaihoque emerges from the depths of its sacred lagoon in Cali – Colombia in 1996, with a musical and ideologic concept deeply inspired on our ancient culture, with its majestic legacy, full of mysticism, rituals, funerary customs... artistic and magic manifestations during those elder times... in the golden age, when this land was pure... milleniums ago.... prior to the invasion of this continent.

We´ve worked out and developed style and sound with own identity; compositions to evoke the ancient centuries through sounds and writings full of mysticism. To set the musical and lyrical concept many studies and investigations have been made, where archaeology, paleonthology and anthropology have been a great source of knowledge; the cultural heritage is a primordial element related to the message of our music.

Guahaihoque recorded a rehearsal demotape in 1997, entitled: “Shades of a golden past”, 6 tracks:Magical Rites, False God´s Destruction, Astral Dance, Saba, Monminie & Thy Eternal Golden Dawn. This material isn´t available anymore due to low sound quality, but it has been digitally edited... and maybe would be spread it in a near future.

Line up during this recording:
Od: Vocals.
Rose: soprano
Naoma: Lead & rhythm guitars / keyboards
Za: Rhythm Guitars
Munseishi: Ancient Woodwinds
Ludo: Bass
Kavi: Dums

Due to many internal disagreements Guahaihoque stopped actions from July 1998 to September 2004, more than six years of silence, but the ancient flame was burning within our spirits, so we returned to concentrate our energies, to evoke a past long gone... and almost forgotten. We started out rehearsing to set material for a recording, so on march 2005 we gave birth to our promotrack entitled “Along A Path”. A very emotive song of 6 minutes.

The line up this time was:
Od:Vocals
Naoma: rhythm & lead guitars / keyboards
Munseishi: Ancestral Woodwinds
Kavi: Drums & Ritual Percussions


Line up changes: In october 2005 Od (vocalist) moved to Europe due to personal reasons, so this made impossible to continue working with him (rehearse & play live), being replaced by Itztlin, He worked out with Naoma before the band was named Guahaihoque. Demolt enters as drummer, and Kavi, after a break returns as session musician, playing the ritual percussions. Saitaz enters as bass player to record the new stuff in 2006, then travels to continue studying in other country, but left us part of his talent within this album.

Current line up:
Itztlin: Vocals
Naoma: Acoustic & Electric Guitars
Munseishi: Ancestral Woodwinds
Demolt: Drums
Kavi: Ritual Percussion (Session)

“ Let your spirit free to enter into forgotten epochs...
Where ritual is blood of life... And death the spirit of existence”.


New album " The Return Of The Ancient Gods " CD 2007

Available Now in: Colombia, Europe, Asia, Oceania, etc.

Includes a flash Multimedia Section.

Orders from : Europe, Asia, Oceania, etc Info: odmail17@yahoo.com

Check Out Xue Productions Spaces

Xue Productions Colombia

Xue Productions Europe

Labels, Distributors, Magazines, Webzines get in touch for wholesale prices and promo packages 

www.facebook.com/pages/guahaihoque
www.myspace.com/guahaihoquefolk
www.reverbnation.com/guahaihoque
www.myspace.com/stormwarrior00
www.myspace.com/xueproductionseurope
www.myspace.com/xueproductions <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Guahaihoque">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.