There are 2 bands with this name: old school EBM band and a metal band.

1)Guerrilla(EBM)
GUERRILLA is a Dutch EBM project, inspired by first-EBM acts like Front 242,Frontline Assembly, DAF and Nitzer Ebb.After de second wave of EBM(Spetsnaz,Proceed and Ionic Vision),GUERRILLA decided to launch this project. GUERRILLA produces hard-minimalistic electronix with analog-basslines,voice/soundsamples and raw-screams.All militant underground EBM/Electro style.

2)Guerrilla(metal)
in the beginning, back in 1994, four teenage thrashers decided to join forces in order to conquer the world......

Well, not quite though. At least, the band Guerrilla has been founded, so far just for the sake of fun. Born as a hybrid of hardcore and thrash (as recorded on their first demo in 1995) the style soon changed to melodic death metal (second demo in 1996). A couple of gigs followed and the band entered the stages of German underground. After some significant line up changes the band finally turned out to define itself as thrash metal with slight death metal influences.

In 1998 the band recorded their first EP "Breed Us, Feed Us, Weed Us" (500 copies, sold out). Great reactions in the German underground press and many gigs all over Germany undermined band's position as a rising force in the German metal scene. After two years of constant playing and songwriting, the band started the recordings of their first full length album "On Target". On this record, released in the summer of 2001, the band accomplished their colourful mixture of thrash and death metal and was going for more than just sticking to one plain register!

In December 2004 the band’s second longplayer “No Inch Back” has been released via Twilight Distribution. 10 songs, even more direct and intense, show the band’s qualities once again. From fast thrashers to catchy mid-tempo songs the band covers many stylistic features, which blend into a still unmistakeable Guerrilla sound. Currently the band is working on their new record, due in autumn 2006.


Over 250 shows have been played hitherto (including support for In Flames, Krisiun, Grave, Dew Scented, Illdisposed, Doro, Soilwork, Holy Moses, Hatesphere, Tankard...) The band's dazzling and tight live-performances have been battle-tested all over Germany and countries like France, the Netherlands, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Italy, Austria. You’d better get shelter and watch out for Guerrilla rumbling your town!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Guerrilla">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.