Guilles de Rais is an extreme metal band which, album after album, has strived to mature and evolve to create their own trademark style. However, the most characteristic trait of their music career is their ongoing pursuit of creativity in their music, away from archetypal, established styles. In addition to that, the band is always trying to work with the best means available, and making every effort to obtain the best possible quality. All GdR works have been self-produced. This has given the band the opportunity to infuse a special character to each of their albums. To date, the band has had an underground, non-mainstream presence on the net and the media.
2002 - Guilles record their debut release, titled Life is a Garden of Whores, comprising of 12 tracks whose roots are close to the black metal genre, but at the same time include old-school elements to their sound. This album is heavily influenced by the band members' pet bands– however the roots of the future trademark sound of the band can already be perceived.
2005 - The band continues their music career with the EP Eli Eli Lamma Sabacthani, comprised of 5 tracks full of anger which showcase a sharper sound. These songs will eventually become some of the greatest GdR hymns.
The band also released a video clip for their song Eli Eli Lamma Sabacthani.
2008 - With new members in their ranks, Guilles de Rais go back into studio to record their 3rd album, Is This How You Envisioned Your Life? In these 11 tracks, GdR make clear which is their musical direction and composition level– this is an album full of musical landscapes, which asks for a detailed listening.
The new video for their song Is This How You Envisioned Your Life? managed to catch the attention and interest of the audience, and helped them to gain more die-hard fans.
2010 - After incorporating a new lead singer, the band records Art of Defect, an album with a fantastic musical production by Jochem Jacobs (Textures) at SPLIT SECOND SOUND STUDIOS in Amsterdam. This full-length comprises of 11 fantastic tracks with a direct and potent sound, which allow the band to consolidate themselves in a style and a sound that are already absolutely distinctive, breaking away from stereotypes, and positioning the band at the vanguard of contemporary metal.
2014 - The band completes the recording of their 5th album, a self-produced jewel titled The Bridge. It comprises of 9 tracks full of maturity and musical balance, which have been composed with no fears nor complexes of any kind, featuring Alfred Berengena, a renowned national percussionist, at the drums. Jochem Jacobs, who was already familiar with the band and knows how to bring out the best in their work, was again in charge of mixing and mastering the album at SPLIT SECOND SOUND STUDIOS in Amsterdam. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Guilles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.