Johnny Cash didn't really shoot a man in Reno just to watch him die; Eminem didn't really kill his girlfriend and Toronto's hard-pop singer Guinevere didn't really commit arson. The 19-year-old is a storyteller just like any other songwriter, mixing reality and fantasy with hard, raw emotions. 

"I like using extreme measures to get my point across," says Guinevere. "That song is about liking a boy and he didn't even know I existed. I end up burning his house down because I liked him so much. Obviously, I didn't really do that. It's just expressing feelings in extreme ways. There's always going to be people that take your creative process the wrong way or are offended by it, what are ya gonna do."" 

Guinevere went on her own after fronting a rock-spiked pop band appropriately called Get Rebel, whose players she met at a music camp she was kicked out of after taking off with some friends in the middle of the night. "We were caught, and I took the blame and was asked to leave at 2 a.m.," she says. "I learned a lot at that camp, but didn't leave on the 'highest note', no pun intended." 

Guinevere might be a bit of a handful, even at age 19, but the spirited young woman is committed to songwriting and a music career. Her father convinced her at an early age that "the Beach Boys were the best thing since sliced bread" and then in grade 8, she discovered Led Zeppelin. Today, she cites Jefferson Airplane and Fleetwood Mac as two of her favorite acts, even though her own music doesn't sound anything like them. "I was born in the wrong era because I love music between 1960 and 1979 the most," Guinevere says. "I hate to use this as an example, but she's tearing up pop right now - Lady Gaga; she's got these very hooky pop songs; I wanna take those kind of addictive melodies and mix in some of Black Sabbath's dark feel." 

Get Rebel lasted for a little over a year but won the attention of Crash Karma bassist and songwriter/producer Amir Epstein who eventually became her manager and songwriter. "He is an incredible writer who understands the art of writing a pop song, and together we have come up with some incredible tunes". "I have been lucky enough to have worked with a slew of incredible producers including Cirkut (Britney Spears), Brian West (Nelly Furtado), Arthur McArthur (Drake), Kevin Rudolph (Lil Wayne), Pilzbury (Danny Fernandez) and Ari Levine of the Smeezingtons (Bruno Mars, C-Lo, Flo-rida). Working out of Los Angeles and Toronto, Guinevere displays her strong dedication and commitment to succeeding in the music industry. 

Her goal is to write trouble-maker tunes and live up to the historical English figure from whom she has taken her stage name. "I have all of these medallions that I like to wear of King Arthur slaying the dragon and Guinevere is very close to my name," she explains. "But even more interesting is that she was King Arthur's wife and had an affair with his best friend, Sir Lancelot, and created a huge storm in the knighthood." Expect this modern-day Guinevere to create a huge storm in the music industry.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Guinevere">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.