The mercurial neo-psychedelia of GUM is the creation of Pond and Tame Impala drummer Jay Watson. The solo project's full-length debut, Delorean Highway, appeared in 2014. Taking a varied approach over the next several years that was always trippy but sometimes drenched in fuzz, sometimes more robotic synth pop, and sometimes crunchier rock, GUM committed to a synth-enhanced psych rock for his more cohesive fourth album, 2018's The Underdog.

Hailing from Western Australia, Watson began recording self-produced music as GUM in 2011. The alias is short for his nickname, Gumby. The project's first album, Delorean Highway, arrived on Spinning Top Music in 2014. He followed it a year later with Glamorous Damage, and the synth-hook-heavy Flash in the Pan saw release in 2016. Without relinquishing synths, a more streamlined psych rock defined The Underdog, which arrived on Spinning Top in 2018. Still putting out albums with Pond and on call for the live version of Tame Impala, Watson issued GUM's fifth long-player, Out in the World, in 2020.

There are others artists with the same name:

(2) Gum are a London based, four piece musical pop group. Gum were born on Thursday 15th September 2011 and are not dead yet.

(3) Back in the late '80s, Melbourne's Andrew Curtis and Philip Samartzis collaborated in the aurally volatile project simply called Gum. With little expertise or training, the two gathered up what objects they were familiar with, in particular thrift store turntables and soiled records. Eschewing their original attraction to the giants of Industrial Culture, Gum quickly developed an aesthetic privileging the caustic rupture of skipping records and smoldering surface noise, predating the current avant-turntablist aficionados like Philip Jeck, Janek Schaefer, and Otomo Yoshihide. With the publication of Gum's Vinyl Anthology, 23five, Inc uncovers the bulk of Gum's work, including all of the material from their self-published albums Vinyl and 20 Years in Blue Movies and Yet to Fake an Orgasm as well as several infamous compilation tracks and plenty of unreleased material.

(4) Gum is an indie rock band from CT/NY.

(5) Gum is the doom/sludge metal band from Italy. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.