GumoManiacs is brought to life in Jan 2007 by Daniel "Gumo" Reiss, and since being a one-man-project in the beginning, the early history of the band is the history of a single person. During his tender teenage years Gumo (born Jan 1980 in Regensburg, Germany) already starts to develop a great passion for the legendary Thrash Metal heroes of the 80s. All that happens in the middle of the 90s – a decade where Thrash Metal is declared dead…
When his first band Thargos (which looks back on a 11-year long history itself) came to an end, a first demo called "Metal Mafia" is recorded in Jan 2007. It is the birth of GumoManiacs. Besides a drum machine, only Gumo himself can be heard on all instruments and vocals. While searching for musicians in the following period, he first gets in contact with the Mexican label Blower Records.
On Feb 28th, 2008 the 3-piece band from Regensburg plays its very first concert at Skullcrusher Club in Dresden, whereupon a couple of record labels (some of them quite well-known) show interest in the band. But the band's line-up at that time is extremely unstable and the never ever released demo recordings of that period have to suffer from that fact. Conclusion: "the big deal" does not happen yet. Only the interest of Blower Records is still unbroken, and also the German underground cult label G.U.C. offers the option to release the album on vinyl. Looking for stable band members during 2008, Gumo finally comes across the brothers Robert "Hubi" Hofmann (Bass) and Michael "Air" Hofmann (Drums), who should build the new rhythm section, while Gumo himself concentrates on guitar and vocals. Without any chance to grow together, the debut album "Priest Of Lucifer" is recorded DIY and released in Dec 2008/Feb 2009 gaining very good reactions from the press – typical Thrash Metal, musically diversified, with catchy choruses, handy riffs and outstanding guitar solos (partly contributed by later member Michael "Fuck" Pusch). The album already establishes the style the band will follow and refine in the following years. Playing many concerts in Germany, e.g. the Chronical Moshers Open Air or supporting Blaze Bayley (Ex-Iron Maiden), the line-up becomes a strong and stable unity. In Dec 2009 the band is heading to Mexico for their first international tour, which becomes a big highlight in their history.
The consequence: again it will be Blower Records and G.U.C. who release the 2nd album "PsychoMania" in Sep/Dec 2010. An album where the amount of input by the Hofmann brothers is getting noticeably bigger and the newly recruited 4th band member Michael "Fuck" Pusch (2nd guitar) causes quite a stir with his towering guitar solos. "PsychoMania" becomes the fastest and most aggressive album of the South German Thrashers up to date, bursts with self-confidence and leads to another tour in Mexico in Aug 2011.

After successfully following the same concept of a CD/vinyl release combined with a tour abroad, the wish for the next big step is growing. It is no other than GoldenCore Records (ZYX Music), who recognize the capability of the young and ambitious band and sign them straight away in Jan 2012. While getting prepared for the studio sessions in Winter 2012 at DreamSound Studios Munich, "The AntiSinner" EP is released in Oct 2012 as a bridge-over. Besides one original composition from the old Thargos days also two cover versions are recorded. Always following the will to do something "new" and "different", the band decides not to do the "hits" from the scene's famous big players, but instead choose two songs of befriended but comparatively unknown underground bands AntiPeeWee and Stahlhelmverbot.
In May 2014 the 3rd album "Out Of Disorder" is finally released via GoldenCore Records (ZYX Music). It is not only the preliminary highlight of the band's history, but also an impressive attestation of the ripening of GumoManiacs. The album stands for professional songwriting, grown-up lyrics and a high grade production that at the same time would not miss the music's rough edges. The love and passion for the genre and the will to search for an own niche melt together with musical craftsmanship and compositional accuracy. Simply said: "Out Of Disorder" offers nothing less than Thrash Metal on an international level. And measured by the evolution of the band from album to album one can be curious about where the journey leads from here.
In fall 2014 they're recording a new record at Ø Studio Abensberg and soon after that also part from their label GoldenCore Records (ZYX Music) due to communication problems. While looking for new partners to release the 4th album, Slash Zero Records release the vinyl version of "Out Of Disorder" in Dec 2015. Because none of the opportunities offered to the band in 2016 seem satisfying, the band keeps working on new music and composes and records the 5th album "Demons", even though the 4th album "Damnation", which was produced for GoldenCore Records in 2014, was never released by the label.
In the beginning of 2017, which is the 10th anniversary of GumoManiacs, the band has two professional full-lenghth albums recorded and ready to be released, but no record deal.
After the huge disappointment with their last high end record deal, the band decides to take matters in their own hands this time and starts a massive crowdfunding in the beginning of the year to realize "By Endurance We Conquer – Demons & Damnation", a double album which is supposed to unite the 4th album "Damnation" (2014) and the 5th album "Demons" (2016). Unfortunately the crowdfunding does not suceed and the future is still uncertain...
Meanwhile the band is trying to gain new fans in the Ukraine and is scheduled to a big Metal Festival in May 2017 at Bingo Club in Kiev, which soon becomes another sad spot in the history of GumoManiacs. Due to visa problems, one band member cannot cross boarders and thus the rest of the band is not able to perform. The long before planned "10 years of GumoManiacs" concert in Kiev never ever takes place.
2017 also sees Daniel "Gumo" Reiß making contact with Ghost Town Noize - a hometown based label he could talk to anytime and that appreciated not only the thrashing cover version of "Space Cock Rocket" (by hometown fellas and future label mates SickSickSick) but also Gumo's music in general, which then seemed to be the best option after all the confusing business stuff the years before.
To make this happen though, it is still necessary to get a budget together, so Gumo decides to sell some of his studio equipment to keep hope alive. After exhausting weeks of ebay auctions in midyear 2017, a 10th anniversary release of the monumental double album "By Endurance We Conquer – Demons & Damnation" seems to become possible after all.
In August 2017 Ghost Town Noize and GumoManiacs finally announce their partnership and the release date is officially scheduled to Oct 27th, 2017.
On February 2nd 2018 the new single "Asmodeus" is released to start another year that is packed with ambitious plans again.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/GumoManiacs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.