Guy Sebastian is a successful Australian singer/songwriter whose recording career was launched spectacularly when he won the inaugural Australian Idol competition in November 2003. Since then Sebastian has released 5 studio albums which have been awarded 10 platinum & 1 gold accreditation for albums, and 8 platinum and 2 gold accreditations for singles. On his 5 albums, Sebastian has collaborated with many fine musicians/artists such as John Mayer, Steve Cropper, Robin Thicke, David Ryan Harris, Brian McKnight and most recently a duet with Jordin Sparks. 

Like it Like That Sebastian's 5th studio album was released on 23  October 2009. There are presently two singles released which are  #1 ranked Like it Like That 2 x platinum and #8 ranked Art of Love (Feat. Jordin Sparks) Gold. Penning all tracks on this album, Sebastian's songwriting skills are as strong as his rich soulful voice which are influenced by the genres of soul, Rhythm and Blues and Pop. John Mayer plays on and provides backing vocals on three tracks with a guitar solo on the track Fail to Mention.

Early in 2007, Sebastian travelled to the home of blues, roots and soul - Memphis, Tennessee - to record his fourth album The Memphis Album.  The record that took Sebastian back to his roots features legendary guitarist Steve Cropper (of Booker T & The MG’s). Cropper, who co-wrote Otis Redding's soul classic "Dock of The Bay" among other classic Stax/Volt hits played on and produced the album as well as traveling to Australia in 2008 to tour "The Memphis Album' and he brought the MG's with him. Of Guy’s soulful voice Cropper enthuses, “Guy is one of the best singers I’ve ever worked with. He's the voice that we've been looking for.” Two tracks off the album are I've Been Loving You Too long (an Otis Redding classic) and Take Me To The River (an Al Green classic),

Discography
2009 Like it Like That 
2007 The Memphis Album
2006 Closer to the Sun
2004 Beautiful Life
2003 Just As I Am 

Early Life and becoming inaugural Australian Idol Winner in 2003
Guy Sebastian was born in Klang, Malaysia to a Sri Lankan and Portugese father from Malaysia, and a mother of Portuguese and Irish/Scot descent who had been born and raised in India. He moved to Adelaide, South Australia as a child. Sebastian has never had any formal voice training but was influenced by artists such as Stevie Wonder, Prince, Brian McKnight, Otis Redding and Al Green.

After giving up University studies in medical radiation to concentrate on music, and while working as a recording engineer and a singing teacher, he decided to enter Australian Idol establishing a fanbase and winning praise from the judges, who also made reference to his afro hairstyle, which became a focal part of his image at that time.  The Grande final of Australian Idol which was held in Sydney, Australia was the most popular program broadcast in Australia during 2003 and the second most popular non-sporting broadcast in Australian television history.

During the competition is became clear that Sebastian was as an accomplished musician (drums, keyboard, guitar and even a little violin), who created his own arrangements for his songs and that, together with his unique soulful voice and innate rhythm, drew many fans.

Official Website: www.guysebastian.com.au

More information on: Guy Sebastian Wikipedia 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Guy+Sebastian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.