Gwydion's journey started in  1995 , a project founded by a group of friends that shared the same passion for metal and interest in Celtic culture. During these first stages of the band, three demos were presented to the Portuguese metal scene and dozens of gigs were performed throughout Portugal.

In 2007, Gwydion prepared to record their first full-length album "Ynys Mön". Their originality and effort triggered the interest of the German label TROLLZORN, which offered a contract to release the album. With Ynys Mön, Gwydion finally started to draw some international attention and ultimately received an invitation to make an European tour in October 2008 with top bands TYR, HOLLENTHON, ALESTORM, and SVARTSOT: the RAGNAROK AASKEREIA'S TOUR.
During 2009, Gwydion played in nearly all major metal Portuguese metal festivals, delivering a distinct sound and attitude, and received continuously great feedback. At the end of the year, Gwydion finished the recordings and production of their second album "Horn Triskelion". "Horn Triskelion" truly represented fifteen years of accumulated experience and ideas. The readers of Portugal's biggest metal magazine LOUD magazine have chosen GWYDION to be the 2nd best band over 2010 + their album "Horn Triskelion" was considered the 3rd best album of 2010! 
Now, in 2013, Gwydion presents "VETERAN". Fans will experience a slightly different musical-style, as the music is much more epic and "metal" than folk compared to the previous release. Since the beginning of the band, they had a very influential epic component in their songs, so naturally when they created "VETERAN", they decided to have a strong mixture of heavy metal riffs and epic/folk songs. "VETERAN" is a story of a warrior since his birth through his training, conquests and defeats with relevance to the History of Portugal. 

Visit us on :
http://www.gwydion.org/officialsite]

Physical copies available through our own webstore http://www.gwydion.org/store.html

Downloads through all popular download platforms like iTunes, Amazon etc.

Streaming through popular sites like Spotify : https://open.spotify.com/artist/4nFxtqp1rzi1eWAeFaXXsL



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gwydion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.