From the band's website:

Combining the sound of Thin Lizzy, Hawkwind and Deep Purple with contemporaries like The Hellacopters, somehow just a few average dudes (with a penchant for riffs) have set out to return music to the people that really appreciate it. GYPSYHAWK is a band's band, a fan's band, and a rock and roll band when music needs it most.

In a time when music is shoveled down listeners’ throats, GYPSYHAWK backs up the walk with rock, and maybe a little swagger -- but that’s all for good showmanship as much as the sake of the song. The Pasadena, Calif. foursome has been honing its sound, sharpening its riffs and showing the promise it holds in the palm of their hands since the band’s mid-2009 inception through perseverance, practice, and an ever-increasing number of shows throughout Southern California, including Pasadena’s Old Towne Pub and Hollywood’s hip nightclub Les Deux. 

Now with the July 2010 release of Patience And Perseverance on Bay Area label Creator-Destructor, and a West Coast tour in support of the record, GYPSYHAWK has finally capitalized on the hard work the band has burdened on their shoulders in its brief, but bubbly and budding, existence. Up next: nose to the grindstone tactics on a West Coast tour from San Diego to Seattle and back upon the release of Patience and another fall tour that brought the band as far as the East Coast and back -- all booked themselves. Another round of nationwide touring is being routed now for early 2011.

Fronted in true Phil Lynott style by singer/bassist Eric Harris -- having already put in his time with Ohio blackened thrashers Skeletonwitch before moving to California – GYPSYHAWK is rounded out by guitarists Andrew Packer, Scotty Conant, and drummer Joe Fabio. And all that promise the band showed with its eight-track, self-released Winter 2009/2010 EP? Well it was time to capitalize when it caught Creator-Destructor’s attention.

Ultimately, Patience And Perseverance a full, twelve-track effort is the end product; band and label alike are both beyond excited. Recorded in April in Oakland with producer Zack Ohren (All Shall Perish, Light This City), GYPSYHAWK enlisted artist Dan Lerner to create a fitting visual representation of the band’s manifest, which Harris and company think Lerner more than accomplished, mixing eerie vibes with hippy mentality, suiting for the band’s brand of harmonies.

With Patience And Perseverance and subsequent early praise for such a new band, GYPSYHAWK hopes to keep spreading the love for melody and riffs – and the solos –and everything that made the ‘70s era of super rock so fun. Turn down the lights and turn up the tunes indeed.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Gypsyhawk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.