A slew of rappers turned out to help out on H.E.A.L.'s 1991 project called Civilization Vs Technology. In liner notes H.E.A.L. is described as follows: "Human Education Against Lies is a forward movement for self construction; we believe that before you are a race, an occupation or a religion you are a human being. . . . we refuse to wait on the political, religious or educational systems for human education."

The view of whites presented by HEAL is conflicting. On the one hand, a few phrases enjoin whites with blacks in the effort to overcome what is viewed as an evil system. For example, on the opening track, the rapper KRS-One says that "black and white ain't the real fight," and yet we think it is because "that's the only thing the media hypes." Rather, he says, "the real fight are these major corporations holding back on real education." On the other hand, numerous phrases drum up black identity, and many phrases condemn whites in general or declare racial war against them. For example, female rapper MC Lyte says that "black youth" should learn "black history" in "black school(s)" where they could "be taught by brothers and sisters who knows what it means to be a black child or white teen." Because "the youth are being mistreated," she says, it is "the world (that) is being cheated." As another example, rapper Freddy Foxxx says that he raps to "a jet-black crowd" about "what it's like to be black and proud in a world where white is right." While rapping with "a black man's might," he expresses frustration about hearing a "light-skinned sister" say that she does not like "darker shades of black."

[...]

The cover art on the CD's shows a city in ruin, and there, cooking a bird and a rat over a fire that still blazes amidst the rubble, sit and stand a white in neo-Nazi garb, a white in a Klansman robe, and an Indian in chieftain attire. All three men look at a Jew dressed in black with a Star of David hanging across his chest and with his nose turned upward to the sky. An Asian woman comforts a dark complexioned girl. A black man looks at us. There is no mention of Jews in the lyrics. It is possible that by using phrases which blame corporations and media, HEAL is really referring to the influences of wealthy Jews, and yet, the phrases do not exclude HEAL from meaning to blame wealthy white gentiles also.

A list of all the artists who contributed to the tracks is as follows: Harmony, Kid Capri, Big Daddy Kane, Freddy Foxxx, LL Cool J, MC Lyte, Queen Latifah, KRS-One, MS Melodie, Run DMC and Jam Master Jay, Sister Carol, Ska Danks, Heather B., Kevin B., Sleepy Wonder, Reverend Badoo, Mickey Jarrett, Bigga Don, Shabba Ranks, Shelly Thunder, Lady English and Miss Linda, Kushite, Musik G, Sky High, Ziggy Marley and The Melody Makers, Salt-N-Pepa, Kool Moe Dee, Grand Daddy I.U., Chuck D, Doug E. Fresh, Red Alert, Ready Z, Simone, Michael Stipe, Billy Bragg and The Athenians with DJ Woody Dee. Some of the persons, organizations, or artists for whom thanks are sent out to are as follows: Kwame Ture, The Black Liberation Army, The Source magazine, Kid 'N Play, Kool G Rap, and Stop the Violence Movement.

Posted at http://home.att.net/~phosphor on June 30, 1999. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/H.E.A.L.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.