H.o.S. stands for 'Harvester of Sorrow'

The band was born in May 2006, from an idea of Dado and Boro. They immediately took the drummer 'Gatto'. The band only played their songs, no cover songs. In September of 2006, the band played for the first time in their city: Lonigo. After this concert, Bress joined the band as the second guitar. After some bass players (Boro,Baso..), the band accepted Cetz as bass player in January of 2007. After a few shows, the band was stopped by the drummer's family problems. In May of 2007, the band changed drummers, and Pedro replaced Gatto. In July of 2007 the band entered in studio to record the first demo called 'The Disdained Rank' that contains 4 tracks. In September 2007 Cetz switched from bass to lead guitar, and Bress switched from guitar to bass. In November of 2007 the band released the second demo 'Dusts Of A Decayed World', that contains 7 songs. In January 2008 the band was draft at 'Legione Nera's roster. In March 2008 the song 'Crusaders At War', was featured on a small radio station called 'Open Lands'. April 2008: After 2 years of huge contribution, Boro and H.o.S. broke up. So Dado became vocals and guitar player of H.o.S. In May of the same year, Bress leaves the band. From the 1st of May 2008, the band changed in ALL things: the logo, line-up, music-style, and lyrics. In July 2008 the 'new' band debuted at Frenetica Rock Cafè with brothers KadavaR, with good results. August 2008: Millo joined the band as bass player. In September and October the band performed many shows, including beyond the boundries of Veneto, and also participated in Fight For Metal Fest Part 1 with Fingernails. In November 2008 they recorded a new demo 'Ready To Fight' that contains 2 old songs re-played, and 2 new songs. The Artwork was designed by Velio.
In February 2009 the band joined 'Goro Records' to produce their first album!Close <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/H.O.S.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.