Israeli female vocal trio, assembled by Dana Adini, MC Carolia and Yael Dekelbaum. They are three experienced singers, maintaining separate musical careers in addition to the group.
The three first performed together at an women singer-writers acoustic night at the famous Jah-Pan club in Tel-Aviv. The band's name came from the soothing and comforting element of the group's sound (Nechama in Hebrew means consolation). At first, each singer sang her own compositions, but later they started composing and writing all the songs for the show together.

Their act performed many times in Israel and abroad, and was named "act of the year" in "DJ Ha'ir" magazine.

August 2007 saw the release of HaBanot Nechama's self-titled debut. The album went gold after only three weeks, and platinum immediately afterwards, with the first single - "So Far" – topping the charts on every major radio station for weeks. All concerts on the first Israeli tour were quickly sold-out with an unprecedented demand by European summer festivals. The girls received great media exposure, performing on prime-time TV shows, and eventually getting them a nomination for the "Best New Act" award at the Israeli Music Channel annual awards.

In February 2008 the girls won the ACUM (Israel's ASCAP) achievement award for "So Far". The judges: "You simply can't think about the passing year without this song... it has a unique quality of a harmony sang by three incredible singers, warming every listener's heart". 



Habanot Nechama
 
 2007Helicon 
Habanot Nechama is made up of three beautiful, experienced singers, Karolina , Dana Adini and Yael Deckelbaum. Habanot Nechama is a live band in the deepest sense, having built a huge and very dedicated following before ever releasing even one single.
No one could possibly have predicted the enormous success HaBanot Nechama found with their eponymous debut album. The August 2007 release went gold after only three weeks, and platinum immediately afterwards. All concerts on the first Israeli tour were quickly sold-out with an unprecedented demand by European summer festivals.
 
The girls received great media exposure, topping the radio charts for several weeks, and eventually receiving a nomination for the "Best New Act" award at the Israeli Music Channel Annual Awards. And was named "Act of the Year" in DJ Ha'ir magazine. Reggae influences, soul-folk melodies, one of a kind harmonies and impeccable song-craft are highlights of this perfect showcase of how English and Hebrew can co-exist.
The band released their highly anticipated, self-titled debut album in July 2007.
 
Habanot Nechama (in Hebrew, הבנות נחמה; "The Comfort Girls") is a popular, platinum-selling band, formed in 2004, from Israel. The group is composed of three female vocalists: Karolina, Dana Adini, and Yael Deckelbaum. They are best known for their self-titled, debut album which went platinum (over 40,000 records sold) in Israel and their hit song "So Far" [1] .

Habanot Nechama was formed in 2004 in Tel Aviv, Israel. They met each other in a local clothing store where they vented their frustrations with their careers and they decided to form the band shortly thereafter. Karolina named the band, Habanot Nechama (translated in English as "The Comfort Girls") for the peace of mind that working with each other gives them.
Their self-titled, debut album was released August 2007 in Israel, where it went gold in three weeks and platinum soon after. The album,Habanot Nechama, has songs in both Hebrew and English. Their sound was described as "reggae-soul-folk". After the album's success, the girls took their act on the road, touring throughout Israel and performing at several Europe summer festivals and finally to the United States, where they performed at the Radio City Music Hall and the Kodak Theatre for Israel's 60th birthday .

All three members of Habanot Nechama have other projects outside of Habanot Nechama. Karolina has performed with Lauryn Hill, Black Eyed Peas and Erykah Badu in Israel and is starting on her own solo album. Dana Adini is an actress best known for her role on the Israeli cult show, Hashir Shelanu and in 2007, CMJ chose her to perform at their "music marathon" in New York . Yael Deckelbaum is in another band called Yael and the Palm Trees' that performs regularly in Tel Aviv . They are in talks to release a second Habanot Nechama album. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HaBanot+Nechama">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.