There appears to be 2 bands with the same name. The Bio directly below describes the band that I listened to and there is a band photo and 2 different CD images that were uploaded by me (In2TheBlues) to last.fm. I am not familiar with the other band... those images were uploaded by another member. Feel free to add their Bio.

Roots rock, uprooted...  Hacha may have been influenced by the Allman Bros. and Black Crowes, even sharing the stage with these legends on occasion, but this quartet of twenty-somethings is hardly classic rock nostalgia.  Forging new ground, with each performance, both to their audience and themselves, HACHA builds on this foundation and creates something that is all their own. At times their sound is vaguely familiar, but just when you are about to identify the riff it veers off into something new, unexpected, and all together exceptional.
 
This is the result of a musical collaboration of lifelong friends. A comfortable old sofa of familiarity exists between the band, that was formed while the members were still learning the quadratic equation. This gives them the freedom to venture into new territory, to experiment, and just rock without fear of ridicule or mockery from their band mates. They have formed a circle of trust inside their compound, the Hacienda de Hacha in Encino, California that extends to the stage and to the studio.  
 
Formed in Connecticut in 1997 by friends whose lives were so inexplicably woven together it would take two thirty packs and a couple hours to get the story straight.  It doesn't hurt that they have honed their craft by playing hundreds of shows across the United States in venues ranging from small clubs to large theaters.
 
Shuttling between their respective colleges HACHA toured the Northeast extensively while sharing bills with some of the industry's finest performers.  HACHA has shared the stage with Guster,  JGB, the Derek Trucks Band, Roberta Flack and members of the Black Crowes, Allman Brothers and Gov't Mule just to name a few. 
 
They have pulled up their roots (so to speak) and have moved to Southern California where an extended family of crew, and dedicated fans continue to boogie to the sound of their Untraditional American Rock, which melds inspired rock with soaring, extended choruses.  HACHA has since hit the ground running from their new West Coast Headquarters, providing tour support to Strangefolk, Railroad Earth, Tea Leaf Green as well as headlining festivals and outside markets. HACHA is the product of friendship channeled into a balance of musical experimentation and melodic songcraft.  The result of which demands a critics' attention and a listeners' enjoyment. http://www.hacha.net/Bio.htm <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hacha">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.