There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Hacksaw is a 2-piece punk band from Bristol, UK. Band Members are Roy Hacksaw (Drums / Vocals) and George Hacksaw (guitar / vocals).
Formed in 1990 out of the ashes of West country punks Disorder. Hacksaw have become popular draws on the Cider Punk circuit thanks to in your face party tracks such as 'The Bog Roll Song', 'Oi!' and 'Don't Feed The Geese'. In 2002 they had a 'near' hit single with the track 'The Unofficial Punk Rock Anthem For The 2002 Fifa World Cup In Japan And South Korea', a song that narrowly missed the charts and landed them a number of guest slots on daytime TV. In 2008 and they issued their fourth album 'Vote Hacksaw', which included the song 'Go Bath City Go'. A track that has been adopted as the official club song of Bath City Football Club. The band are also planning to represent Moldova in the 2010 Euro-Vision song contest. (This is in protest of being snubbed s the UK entry six years in a row)


2) Hacksaw is a doomsludge band from Squamish, British Columbia.

3) Hacksaw is a death metal band from Guimarães, Portugal. The formed in 2005 by Luis Lisboa (Vocals also in Black Tyrant , Stuprum Dei and a  ex-member of Bloody Tears (Prt) , Amorak and Seraphitus), Toni (Guitar)and Barroso (Drums; also in Daemogorgon and an ex-member of Bloody Tears). The band was completed by former Viingrid Bassist Susana.

They have released a demo called "Bind Torture Kill!", which combines influences from Cannibal Corpse, Vader, Decapitated, Suffocation, Behemoth and more to create a passionate and brutal onslaught.

The band are currently recording a new EP and are performing at the grindfest with band such as General Surgery and Cripple Bastard.

4) Hacksaw is a Belgian dubstep artist from Sint-Gillis-Waas. Dark, bassfilled sounds combined with his deathcore/death metal background makes his music sound very gloomy and sinister. Fans of Saviour, N-Type and other dark dubstep artists will love this.

5) Hacksaw is a solo project of Zach Weeks from lovechild/Cerce and Burglary Years.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hacksaw">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.