Out of the ashes of the late band Gollum, a new force to be reckoned with on the global metal scene emerges. Hadea is the name of a new powerhouse of hard-grooving, experimental metal rising from the ground out of Cape Fear, North Carolina!

Originally founded in 1998 under the name of Gollum by brothers Frank and Serge Stroehmer and the now deceased Hunter Holland, the band spent its first couple of years perfecting their musical craft into the groovy, brick-wall-of-sound, it is today. 
Gollum then took to the road playing countless shows coast to coast in the US, and have over the last ten years supported major acts such as Slayer, Mastodon, Chimaira, etc. and played for thousands and thousands of metalheads at the last three editions of the Rockstar Energy Drink Mayhem Festival.

Their self-financed debut “Lesser Travelled Waters” raised widespread underground media attention in the US with the feature of the king of “Pure American Metal” D. Randall Blythe from Lamb of God, and in 2008 Gollum had created such hype around their brand of experimental, groove-laden metal, that it caught the attention of L.A.-based record label Rotten Records, who instantly fell in love with the band and signed them onto their label in June 2008. Gollum’s constant ambition to push their potential even further propelled onto a new level with the addition of vocalist Shawn Corbett in 2008, and under the wings of Rotten Records, the new constellation entered the studio to record their sophomore effort “The Core” in late 2008. But then, just as things were really about to take off for Gollum, disaster struck. After the completion of “The Core”, drummer Hunter Holland unexpectedly passed away.

The loss of bandmate and longtime friend, Holland almost had a devastating impact on the band, but after a period of grieving and contemplating over the future, the band decided to put the name “Gollum” to rest in respect of Holland, and reincarnate as Hadea.a 
Hadea takes its name after the Hadean Period in geological history some 4.5 billion years ago, where the earth was taking shape in our solar system, and just like the name implies, Hadea the band is also about to take shape and leave its mark on the universe!

Hadea’s new wrecking-ball-of-an-album “Fabric of Intention” fuses the band’s trademark groove metal with a newfound experimentation on musical genres in 10 songs that all together mount up to be an album with a truly unique soundscape. The album was recorded by guitarist Frank Stroehmer and mixed and mastered by Jamie King (Between the Buried and Me).

Hadea has recently inked a worldwide deal with the leading Danish metal label Mighty Music that ensures Hadea expert representation in their new venture into the world of metal music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hadea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.