Hades Almighty is a Norwegian black metal band founded in 1992 in Bergen, Norway, originally under the moniker Hades.

The group was formed in 1992 in Bergen by former Immortal guitarist Jørn Inge Tunsberg and ex-Dark drummer Remi; they were later joined by Janto Garmanslund on bass and second guitarist Wilhelm Nagel. Their first demo, Alone Walkyng, was recorded in June 1993 at Grieghallen and produced by Pytten; this demo was later to be re-released on CD through the Italian label Wounded Love in 1996. In 1993, Tunsberg was convicted, along with fellow black metal musician Varg Vikernes (of Burzum), for the burning of a Norwegian church in Åsane, which led to a prison sentence. Following the release of the demo, the band signed with Full Moon Productions and recorded their first album ,...Again Shall Be, again at Grieghallen, in June/July 1994. Around this time, they also replaced Nagel with Stig Hagenes on second guitar.

Hades recorded their second album Dawn of the Dying Sun at Grieghallen in 1996, which was released through Full Moon in 1997. The band supported the release of this album with extensive touring throughout Europe, as well as in Mexico and the USA. In 1998 the band was forced to change their name from Hades to Hades Almighty, following complaints from an American act already with a prior claim to the name. Following the name-change, the band began working on their next album, as well as playing at the Wacken Open Air festival.

In September 1998 the band released entered Prolog Studios (Dortmund, Germany) to record Millenium Nocturne, released under license from Nuclear Blast through Hammerheart. They toured Europe to support of the album with Immortal and Benediction, and a separate spate of gigs in the Benelux region with Mayhem and Primordial. Their fourth album Pulse of Decay was released in 2001 through Psycho Bitch Records. Hades Almighty signed a management contract with Khaoz Productions in 2003, and a record deal with Dark Essence Records in 2004; the label re-released Pulse of Decay in 2004 with bonus tracks (including a cover of Manowar's "Each Dawn I Die") and a DVD section including the video for the band's own track "Submission Equals Suicide". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hades+Almighty">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.