The Finnish extreme metal band Hadiann was born in the spring of 2002 from the ruins of two Saarijärvi-based extreme metal bands, Blind Beholder and Moonblade (the latter of which was previously known as Afterdawn). The remaining members of Moonblade; drummer Matias Kolari, bassist Timo Perälä, keyboardist Kari Perälä and violinist Henrik Mujunen joined their forces with Blind Beholder-guitarist Toni Reinikka, thus forming the first known line-up of Hadiann. The name Hadiann, which was discovered by Timo, has no specific meaning, but it derives from the word "hades".

The line-up began to work on new material and some cover songs (including Dimmu Borgir's In Death's Embrace and Covenant's Bringer of the Sixth Sun). Because Hadiann didn't have a vocalist at that time, Timo took the position and continued playing bass. During the late summer of 2002 Hadiann recorded their first demo using Kari's computer. The songs recorded were The Ancient, Anthem for Murder And Massacre (the only remaining Moonblade song) and Riding on Horse of Hades (including an intro called Into Oblivion). Though the selftitled demo features a drum machine, a buzzsaw guitar and literaly no bass, the tracks (written mostly by then 15-year-old Kari) create a quite unique dark and oppressive atmosphere. The early Hadiann songs are downloadable here.

The next winter brought changes that affected the band's ability to practice in it's entirety for almost three years. The then Saarijärvi-based line-up split around Finland to study. Hadiann then gathered during weekends, but no new material was practiced. They managed to play one (and only to date) gig in the late spring of 2003. The cacophonic and fuzzy (none of the few listeners heard no keyboards or vocals) performance introduced guitarist Arttu Pulkkinen to the audience. Arttu, who hails from Lappajärvi (the hometown of Stratovarius' Timo Kotipelto), attented the Music High School of Kaustinen with Kari and Toni. The trio jammed together in various projects before Arttu joined the line-up.

During the summer of 2003 it became obvious that Matias and Henrik wouldn't continue playing with Hadiann in the future. At that point the band also lost their legendary rehearsal place (Burialmound, Afterdawn and Blind Beholder had played and vandalised there) in the basement of Saarijärvi's youth center. The year 2004 began with Timo's short-lived departure due to 'lack of believing in the future of the project'. For a very short while Hadiann ceased to exist. 
 
The then Kaustinen-based band was without a bassist, a singer and a drummer. Because it's obviously not difficult to find players and a rehearsal place in a music school, Hadiann soon played with a new line-up of which bassist Jonna Kivimäki and drummer Jami Peltoniemi are still a part of. Towards the end of 2004 new song ideas formed into malicious Hadiann songs (The Heretic and Whispers of a Nameless Fear). The songs possessed such power, aggression and strong moments that Timo was very keen to work with Hadiann again. The group recorded demo versions of the two songs during the end of 2004 with him on the vocals. This time (and later for Reverend Holocaust demo) the drum tracks were layed down by Jami at the high school's studio in Kaustinen.

The original idea was to record the songs (accompanied by a third, then nameless song) again during the spring of 2005. The spring however resulted in the high school graduations of Jonna, Kari and Jami (Arttu graduated later that year). Finally Timo recorded the vocals for three songs; The Heretic, Whispers of a Nameless Fear and Reverend Holocaust at Kari's home studio in November of 2005. The band met in Saarijärvi and played together for the first time in late December. 
 
The latest Hadiann effort, the sophomore demo Reverend Holocaust, is packed with fierce and ruthless songs. Since then (during 2006-2008) Hadiann hasn't done much, until recently... 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hadiann">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.