There are more than one Hadron.
1) Hadron is a four-piece metal band form Odense, Denmark. Hadron is heavily inspired by the 70’s Doom/Heavy Metal. Hadron is:
Martin Twisttmann Pedersen - Vocal
Martin Schjoldager - Bass
Anders Rusholt Lorentzen - Guitar
Thomas Pedersen - Drum

2) 2004, Sensation Black. I missed the party, but the recorded mixes reached me, and changed my view of The Electronic Music. My first favourite genre became Hardstyle, for 3 years HS dominated my music listening habits. 'Making the music' started a few months after the first contact, strictly in Hardstyle. Later, when the genre started to evolved through the underground era, and started its journey to capture the hearts of the "cheese lovers", i began to lose intreset in it. BUT! - in the begining of 2007 Noise Provider came, and shocked me with "Unknown Frequency". This track changed me, even more than HS did back in 2004. Soon i became a Techno based producer, started to check on all the tek genres, it took almost 1 year for me to switch from Hs to Frenchtek. Meanwhile I tried myself at Jumpstyle, and the Dutch-Italian mainstyle Hardcore, but they didn't catch my interest that much. As I progressed, I tried to collect the best of all genres that crossed my way through friends, like Industrial, Darkcore, Terror, and some experimental things as well. These genres had quite a big effect on my style, thats why you can feel an experimental flavour in my tracks. This year (2009) I became interested in the slower musics, like Minimal, slower Techno etc., and the broken styles as well, like Breakcore and Dubstep.

Musical philosophy: all of my tracks were made for myself, they represent MY taste, and what i seek in Electronic Music. If anybody else like it (possibly...), thats just even better.

Aliases:

Whan – Techno, Frenchtek, Experimental, BPM:135-160
Hadron - Minimal, Techno, House, Chill Out, Experimental BPM: max 135
Assumed - Hardtechno, Industrial, Darkcore, Terrorcore, Experimental: BPM: 150-999
1Step2Crack - Dubstep, Breakbeat, Breakcore, DnB, Experimental: BPM: 99-999
T.a.a.k.a.a.r.o.d.j. - Funny, but shit music, Experimental
Hardstuff - Hardstyle (for 1-1,5 years i dont use it, but this was my first name...)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hadron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.