1998 - 2002

This project was very popular right from the start and entered the charts. Originally inspired by Germanic occultism and culture through the Neo-Folk music scene, founder Andrea was involved with counter culture artists such as Boyd Rice, Patrick Leagas and Tony Wakeford, thus Hagalaz' Runedance was, in the beginning, linked to this genre, even referred to as the most selling Neo-Folk album. Electro masters Ulver were also collaborating on a few songs. The lyrics were based on modern themes, cleverly disguised with mythical metaphors.

The band dissolved many years ago and Andrea moved on and turned to her darker tunes and urban art again. None of her other projects have relations to the Hagalaz’ Runedance theme, and people should not claim otherwise!

”I’m too controversial and free-spirited to be religious, if you know what I mean. I found out soon that Pagan religion blinds people just like any other religion. Don’t connect me to it. I’m a free artist, I love my real life and personal freedom. I have evolved to amazing things and people should do the same. ”

”I like to start new ideas, I love to renew myself! I don’t want to have a label on my forehead and I keep my personal spiritual ideas separated from my artistic expressions. I need artistic freedom and I only do things that give me energy. These days I work as a  full-time artist with music, films, novel writings and acting and I love my job. I even work with famous film-directors and it’s awesome!

I like to exlore whatever new things come to my mind and I’m not afraid to stand alone. And I know people often feel threatened by such an individual, but hey, I rather am hated for who I am than loved for what I’m not. And I so encourage everyone out there to do the same. Just be yourself, and never stop asking questions! ” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hagalaz%27+Runedance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.