Italian (Rome) Black Metal born in May 2005. It is unclear whether or not the band is NSBM or just uses symbols, as information is obviously obscure. As of 2010, the band is inactive.

Releases:
Pure Need of Hate (2005 Demo)
Eternal Introspective Winter (2006 Full Length)
Externsteine (3-way Split)

Oh, this was the former description that was so terribly written that it deserves to stay up.
"The Hakenkreuz Nocturna is band roman a much young person, been born in the May of 2005 for will of Agast and Nuberos and Also gives to the endured light the first demo “Need Of Hate”. In scarne the biographical notes that I have been able to consult they define as a band given over to the n.s.b.m. and all in fact it is in the full style minibadly that contraddistingue the kind, to leave from the coverart in.bianco and black to the compositions and the recording. The demo it is composed from 5 traces comprised the usual intro. The job heavy is influenced from the monster sacred of the sort like Burzum, Darkthrone, Judas Iscariot and from groups prettamente nsbm like the Germans Der Sturmer of “Blood Calls for War” and the Capricornus Dutch. Unfortunately these infuences are too much strong and the songs do not turn out neither originate them neither much less personal, therefore the halo of “already felt” never does not abandon listens of the job and that penalizes the two Roman not little. However the compositions are linear and pure the crude recording even if remains always clear and the instruments very distinguished. Therefore I would advise to the pair to try to be little influences to you from their listenings and to search a sound I do not say originates them, why it is almost impossible, but at least personal and peculiar because the potentialities in order to make it are and must be taken advantage of." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hakenkreuz+Nocturna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.