Hallowed Point are a five piece Throg Metal band hailing from the North of England. Comprising of musicians from Huddersfield, Leeds, Durham, Darlington and Middlesbrough all combining to play fast epic music inspired by old school thrash metal, power metal and progressive metal, Hallowed Point are lucky to boast some of the most talented young musicians in the area. Backed up with genuinely good songs comprising heavyness, melody, speed and aggression headed by catchy lyrics sung by vocalist Michael Morris, Hallowed Point are hell bent on conquering the underground metal scene.

Spearheaded by a twin axe attack of lead guitarist Richard Wright's blazing solos and Tom Livingstone's chugging chunky riffs, the pair often snaking the fretboard in harmony, and the powerful assault of rhythm section Andrew Stirk (bass) and Dave Herbert (drums), Hallowed Point are not a band to be overlooked!

Read on for the full biography...


Hallowed Point was born in March of 2006, when drummer Dave Herbert together with guitarists Daniel Whitehouse and Andy Phillips joined forces intent on bringing real thrash metal back to the forefront of the local scene, increasingly exasperated by scores of metalcore bands posing as "thrash".

Influenced by their favourite classic thrash bands from the Bay Area and Europe, together with newer power and progressive metal bands, the band set to work on writing their debut E.P.
After a couple of months spent writing and rehearsing, the band headed straight into the studio to record their debut E.P. "Fatal Judgement" in June 2006.

This was immediately followed by a two week UK tour during July, where the band showcased their exciting new material to anyone who would listen!

After a few more gigs scattered around West Yorkshire throughout the Summer of 2006, culminating in an appearance at the all day thrash metal festival "Full Thrash Assault '06" at The Snooty Fox in Wakefield in late September, the band parted ways with lead guitarist Daniel Whitehouse. Bassist Andrew Stirk was recruited the following month, which also saw the release of the band's long-awaited debut 4 track "Fatal Judgement" E.P. in October 2006.

Following a few unsuccessful lead guitarist auditions over the next few months, the band decided to hit the road as a 3-piece, performing a number of gigs around Yorkshire which saw them support the likes of Evile, Headless Cross and Deadweight. The reaction to the band's new live show was excellent, and saw seen them win over new fans at every show, adding to their ever-increasing fan base.

In early April 2007, the band's line-up was completed by the addition of lead guitarist Steve Pullan to the ranks. However after an initial positive start, Pullan abruptly departed Hallowed Point along with longstanding rhythm guitarist/vocalist Andy Phillips, during the band's UK tour in July 2007.

Whilst many bands may have chosen to call it a day at this point, remaining members Dave Herbert and Andrew Stirk were even more determined than ever to find new band members in order to fulfil their ambitions and visions for the band, which included moving to a more progressive and melodic sound, while retaining the heaviness of the band's thrash roots.
It didn't take long before they took a leap forward in their quest when exciting new vocalist Michael Morris joined the band in August 2007. Unfortunately the next few months became frustrating as Morris went under the knife for minor throat surgery, meanwhile the band were finding it difficult to find the talented and committed guitarists they so desperately desired.

A couple of rhythm guitarists came and went in the subsequent months, which saw only a handful of erratic live performances played and the band began to lose hope.

Enter Richard Wright, virtuoso lead guitarist and Leeds talent finalist 2007. After months of persuading and pestering, Hallowed Point pulled off a heavy metal coup by securing the incredible talents of Wright, whom had played previously in a band with vocalist Michael Morris. Richard's arrival was followed swiftly by that of rhythm guitarist Tom Livingstone, finally completing the line-up after almost 2 years of changes and struggles.

And so it begins again, this strongest and most powerful incarnation of Hallowed Point began gigging in Summer 2008 after a few months of rehearsals and more writing. The band is progressing with every live performance, which can be heard on the new Live E.P. release "Hallowed Point: Live in London" recorded at the Apocalyptic Rage thrash metal all-dayer in August, only the third gig the new lineup had played together. Despite arriving literally minutes before they hit the stage, and with no warmup whatsoever or even a soundcheck, Hallowed Point blasted their way through a rousing 25 minute set with energy and attitude winning over many members of the crowd in the process.

With constant progression and improvement as the band continue to hone their sound, and exciting plans for a new studio release in early 2009, the band are looking to the future as they embark on the next chapter of their journey.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hallowed+Point">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.