1. Post-Rock band from Austin, Texas (1999-2004)                        
2. Singer/Producer from Melbourne, Australia

1. Gary Ankeney - lead guitar, keyboard
William Ankeney - piano, vocals, tambourine
John Clement- bass guitar
Trace Faulkner - guitar, piano
Scott Oliphant- drums, guitar, piano, engineering

Halley was a band from Austin, TX that played together from 1999-2004. 

Halley was born in the fallout of the dolores haze, a noise pop outfit in Austin that imploded after personal conflicts within the group. After the demise of the DH the four remaining members (Oliphant, Faulkner and the Ankeney brothers) took to their home studio resulting in 2002's sonic cornucopia: Forget The Leaves, Autumn Will Change Us. For over a year and a half (starting in 2000)  Halley, with Scott learning how to turn the knobs and place mics, spent most waking hours recording, re-recording and mixing the album at The Radiocarbon Laboratory. Experiencing the freedom of the recording studio the four members used the album to turn themselves into a 30-piece orchestra at times and a pure and simple rock band in the same breath. Trying not to miss a single sound that they loved Forget The Leaves… touches on a lifetime of record collections and mix tapes. Receiving comparisons such as Spiritualized, Grandaddy, Mercury Rev and Slowdive, Halley strived to sound like everyone they admired and no one else they'd ever heard. 

After the completion of their first full length album Halley soon added bass player John Clement making their live sound complete. A steady stream of shows playing with bands like Experimental Aircraft, Arlo, Mates of State and The Deathray Davies the band concentrated on perfecting their live sound and putting recording on hold. Not until early 2003 had plans begun for another full-length release. While many sessions took place, the recording project at hand had been all but abandoned due to lack of interest in making an album that was to sound the same as their previous effort. 

As Halley prepared for a summer release of their second full-length album, they had adopted new sounds and textures to woo the listener, for now the days of endless guitar tracks over saturated with feedback are gone. The tentatively titled Alone On The Range, focused more on songwriting and musicianship trading in a flock of effect pedals for acoustic guitar and pianos; the banjo, fiddle style viola and ragtime brass section take over many of the songs without discrediting the sincerity of each piece. If Forget the Leaves…is your most inner feelings of loneliness, heartache and depression, Alone… is the elated feeling knowing that everything will be all right. 

The band stopped playing together in 2004. Rough mixes of the final sessions were put together.

2. Australian singer producer Halley, based out of Melbourne. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Halley">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.