HAMMER WITCH HAS BEEN DEAD SINCE 1994 - - - This page covers the band from 1989 through 1994, when the band decided to take a more brutal, faster approach than previously. That's when I got on board as guitar player for the band. And if you're reading this now, you might have discovered this page through my acoustic "space", Darrin Kobetich  ....................................................The band (to my knowledge) was founded in New Orleans, Louisiana, back in 1985, by bassist Wayne Abney and guitar/vocalist Frankie Dee. On drums was Terry Sims and second lead guitar, a cat named George (his last name escapes me at this point). They came to Dallas, TX because the metal scene was lacking, at the time in New Orleans. I first saw them perform in 1986, at Savvy's in Ft. Worth, TX. They were doing all the Judas Priest and Iron Maiden covers I was familiar with, and original material from their album to be released in 1987, "Return To Salem". That album introduced the new 3-piece format with the absence of George, and Sal Torneo replacing Terry on drums. This album was featured on Volume 9 of the Forgotten Outstanding Metal series.

They had already built a decent following, when personal differences resulted in the exit of Frankie in late 1989. Wayne took over vocals and I jumped at the chance to jam with these fuckers, when I heard the news. We immediately started working on new material and dominating the legendary Joe's Garage in Ft. Worth - along with other thrash bands of the day, Gammacide, Malignancy, Rotting Corpse, Rigor Mortis, Crucifix, Morbid Scream - to name but a few. In 1991, we released "Legacy Of Pain", in cassette format only,(we were poor!) which is what you'll hear cuts from on this page. Scott Shelby, lead guitar player from Gammacide joined us in 1993. He recorded one song with us after "Legacy", entitled "Carve Your Own Doom". That was released on a cassette as well - one song! What's done is done. He helped fill out our live sound during the last year of the band's existence. [1994 SAW THE END OF HAMMER WITCH.] Wayne and Scott went on to form the short lived Null And Void. Before relocating back home to New Orleans, Wayne put together Mother Thumb, in which I played a gig with, once. Unfortunately we never recorded the 5 or so, new tunes we had played live, other than video footage with medicore sound quality. Me and Sal started out with at least 2 of those songs and refashioned them to fit the new band we formed with my brother Adam on vocals and Chance Lehman on bass. But that's another story...

http://www.myspace.com/hammerwitch <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hammer+Witch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.