Back in May 2005 a fresh faced, doe-eyed Stephen Williams bought a bass and set out to form a band inspired by Mike Dirnt and Flea. He asked his friend and fellow bass player Alasdair Clayden if he knew any guitar players and Alasdair recommended Sean Davis. The two began to play together and soon asked friend Mark Bridger if he would like to join. The awful awful awful name HiJact 4 Life somehow came about.

At this point the line up was very confused and it was just some year 8 boys having fun and messing around. Despite having two bass players, a rapper reluctant to sing and no drummer we set about recording a cover of She Wants To Move by NERD and skits like Fat man Struggling and Chicken Laid An Egg on sound recorder on Sean's computer.

Eventually Alasdair left, Mark started to sing and Alex Bailey from a band called Pointless Thorns joined as drummer. The first gig was the end of year 8 assembly at Heart of England school and we played Points of Authority/99 Problems by Linkin Park and Jay-Z. Oli Smith, vocalist of Pointless Thorns, joined us for this mess.

We changed our name to The WasteLands and began to cover songs by Linkin Park, The Offspring, Green Day and Blink 182 and play school "rock nights" put on by the music department. Gradually we moved away from covering nu-metal and pop punk into rock and indie and started writing original songs like "Crushed". Our first gig outside of school was at Rose Court, an old folks home in Balsall Common. Mark learnt to play guitar and wrote songs such as "Fight For You" and "I Used To Know You Well" and the other members contributing afterwards. We decided to record our three songs at a NoisyFred Productions, Fred Cox's house - a friend who had good equipment and was into recording music. A few days later we played at the National Rock and Pop Festival at the NEC.

As year 11 began we started to write lots more songs and practice more. We recorded three new songs with NoisyFred Productions - "Starbucks", "No Time Like The Present" and "Buy One Get One Free". We played lots of school gigs, house parties, a scout hut, a forest, in a marquee in a field and we organised our own Oxjam Gig at Burton Green Hall raising over £200. We also played at the Bar Academy in Birmingham for the Catapult Club.

Due to commitment issues Stephen left the band in August 2008 and was replaced by Jay "Hota" Mansell who we had all played with before in bands like The Hota Experience. We decided now was the time to have a fresh start with starting sixth form / college in September and having a new bass player. We changed our name to Hang the DJ and we want to make good music with good friends playing as many gigs as possible and have a bit of fun.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hang+the+DJ">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.