Hannah Peel (born Hannah Mary Peel on 27 August 1985 in Craigavon) is a Northern Irish artist, producer and composer. Peel's solo music is primarily electronic, synthesiser based and often includes classical scoring and sound design, with references to the links between science, nature and music. She has scored music for television, film, theatre and dance, including Game of Thrones: The Last Watch (a special documentary).

Peel says she has a “love for the golden age of cinema and Italo Calvino’s 1972 book Invisible Cities, the imagined travels of Kublai Khan, through the very real loneliness felt by living in big cities, the failure and building of new relationships, to the dreams of a better future.”  As with Marco Polo’s Silk Road, Peel’s treks through many different cultures, from London’s electronic worlds, to Middle Eastern-style melodies, to Asian folk shrapnel, to classical European keys. 

As well as her solo work, Peel has worked with collaborators on projects including orchestrations and conducting for Paul Weller, and an album with the Faber poet Will Burns, and is a member of the psychogeography indie rock group The Magnetic North and the electronic group John Foxx and the Maths.

She has released solo records on her own imprint label, My Own Pleasure Records, including Awake but Always Dreaming and Mary Casio: Journey to Cassiopeia / Particles in Space. Awake but Always Dreaming was released by My Own Pleasure Records, on 23 September 2016 and was awarded "#1 Electronic Album of the Year 2016" by Electronic Sound Magazine. 

In 2019, Peel scored her first feature-length film score to the documentary Game of Thrones: The Last Watch. 

In 2020, Peel scored the soundtrack for the Channel 5 drama The Deceived written by Lisa McGee.

https://hannahpeelmusic.bandcamp.com/album/particles-in-space <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hannah+Peel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.