Hansen & Friends, the solo project of former Helloween and current Gamma Ray guitarist Kai Hansen, issue debut full-length studio album XXX – Three Decades In Metal –  on September 16th, 2016 through earMUSIC.

The outing was recorded at Chameleon Studio in Hamburg with Alex Dietz (Heaven Shall Burn guitarist) on bass, Eike Freese (engineer and co-producer with Hansen on March 2014 Gamma Ray record  Empire Of The Undead ) on guitar, and Daniel Wilding (Carcass) on drums. In addition, XXX features various guests, including Ralf Scheepers (ex-Gamma Ray / Primal Fear), Piet Sielck (Iron Savior / ex-Savage Circus), Dee Snider (Twisted Sister), Steve McT, Tobias Sammet (Edguy / Avantasia), Michael Kiske (ex-Helloween / Unisonic), Frank Beck (Gamma Ray), Clémentine Delauney (ex-Serenity / Visions Of Atlantis), Marcus Bischoff (Heaven Shall Burn), Richard Sjunnesson (ex-Sonic Syndicate / The Unguided), Hansi Kirsch (Blind Guardian), Roland Grapow (ex-Helloween / Masterplan), Michael Weikath (Helloween) and Tim Hansen (son of Kai Hansen).


The track listing is as follows;

01. ‘Born Free’
02. ‘Enemies Of Fun’
03. ‘Contract Sun’
04. ‘Making Headlines’
05. ‘Stranger In Time’
06. ‘Fire And Ice’
07. ‘Left Behind’
08. ‘All Or Nothing’
09. ‘Burning Bridges’
10. ‘Follow The Sun’

Hansen & Friends’ recording line-up was as follows:

Kai Hansen (vocals and guitar, ex-Helloween / Gamma Ray)
Eike Freese (guitar, vocals on track 9, Dark Age)
Alexander Dietz (bass, Heaven Shall Burn)
Daniel Wilding (drums, Carcass)

Guest musicians:

Ralf Scheepers (vocals on track 2)
Piet Sielck (vocals on track 2)
Dee Snider (vocals on track 3)
Steve McT (as The Manger on track 3)
Tobias Sammet (vocals on tracks 4 and 5)
Michael Kiske (vocals on track 5)
Frank Beck (vocals on track 5)
Clémentine Delauney (vocals on tracks 5, 6 and 7)
Marcus Bischoff (vocals on track 6)
Richard Sjunnesson (vocals on track 6)
Hansi Kirsch (vocals on track 10)
Roland Grapow (guitar solo on trck 5)
Michael Weikath (guitar solo on track 6)
Tim Hansen (guitar solo on track 10)

Kai Hansen’s first advance payment to be received for XXX – Three Decades In Metal will be donated to the Wacken Foundation, a foundation which supports young hard rock and heavy metal bands. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hansen+&+Friends">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.