Hard Venom was first formed in 1997. It had too many members, half of which couldn't play their instruments properly. By 1999 they'd given up. In 2003, Pukovnik Krv (guitarist in the original band) revived the name alongside new partner-in-crime Captain Epic. Without any genre in mind they started writing anything they felt like. Eventually they wrote a couple of songs, and went and recorded it with Attila, alumni of Tokyo Blade, Shogun, Mad Cow Disease and current member of Legions of Crows. Alan Marsh (Tokyo Blade) also put vocals on Medusa.

Eventually it was released online as Anger of a Nation, Doom To Us All, because they couldn't find a local printer to actually make copies of it.

Due to the long wait between the EP and the first album, Krv decided to release The Perks of Being In Office as a single.

The first full-length was a concept album, called A Brief Repose Amidst The Screams Of Torture, which had about ten similar themes all running through one narrative to conclude in the same ending. Song-wise and lyric-wise, it was good. However, it was decided to record it on Protools, without Attila's help, and without a clue how to work Protools, and using a 6-pad hand kit for drums, the recording quality was dreadful. Some of it will eventually be re-recorded.

Afterwards they teamed up with fellow British band Adalruna to release The Broken Swords of Despotic Villainy. This was made up of a load of songs from the EP and album, mostly black metal in style. It was limited to 100 copies from Lokisson. However, Lokisson proved to be a front for drug-dealers, so henceforth please try and find it online and pirate it.

The next few years were filled with intense activity behind the scenes, but with no releases. Work was started on several albums at once, and, while they upgraded their studio and recording capability, songs were routinely re-recorded everytime a new piece of software or hardware was purchased, so as to avoid the catastrophe that was A Brief Repose...

Christophe Szpajdel made the band a new logo during the long wait between releases.

In 2012, two of the albums finally came together and ended up finished at the same time, To Sever Ties With All Of Mankind (started in 2006) and Après la Vie, les Fleurs Fleurissent à Nouveau (started in 2007). These were released on the band's own Enraptured Samurai Warrior Records label.

In 2013, Elemental, a multi-genre multimedia project that overran for 9 years was released as a photobook/album. With 8 songs in 7 genres it aimed to show the natural elements and how the "human" elements of Light and Dark affect them.

Vampire Rising, a black metal opera based around the song of the same title from the first EP, was released in 2017, getting worldwide digital distribution for the first time.

More projects in the works are Jax Muskly, Robot Pimp (an Industrial Doom Metal project) and Black Hole. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hard+Venom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.