Hard Rock Sofa is a popular Russian duet famous all over the world. They are great DJs and producers whose tracks always blow up the dancefloors of clubs, fests and raves. Their unique sound and style achieved by hard work and outstanding talent keep conquering the hearts and souls of clubheads worldwide which results in releases on famous house music labels proving that Russian house music DOES exist.

The guys started their musical career in 2005 and since then managed to get recognition and respect of the worlds’ best producers and DJs. Their tracks and remixes are always supported and played by such titans of house music as: Tiesto, David Guettа, Pete Tong, Axwell, Steve Angello, Sebastian Ingrosso, Armin Van Buuren, Afrojack, Avicii, Kaskade, Bob Sinclar, Sander Van Doorn, Above & Beyond, Dirty South, Markus Schulz, Judge Jules, Roger Sanchez, etc...

Hard Rock Sofa’s tracks and remixes are always best sellers in the best digital stores such as: beatport.com, junodownload.com and others. Having listened to Hard Rock Sofa’s music once you want to do it again and again. For 7 years of their existence Hard Rock Sofa released about 30 singles and 80 remixes on majors European and American house music labels like: Axtone Records, Size Records, Spinnin' Records, Mixmash Records, Cr2 Records, Doorn Records, One More Tune, PinkStar Records, Kontor, Ministry Of Sound, Nervous, N.E.W.S. etc.

One of the greatest hits “Blow Up” released on Axtone Records in just a few days reached the 2nd spot in the Beatport’s top 100 chart. “Blow Up” was also remixed by two giants of house music Axwell (Swedish House Mafia) and Thomas Gold. In 2011 Hard Rock Sofa recorded and released a few collaborations together with another Russian house project Swanky Tunes who are also their good friends. The single “Thank You / Labyrinth” was released on the legendary British label Cr2 Records, the track “Feedback” - on the great Dutch label Spinnin’ Records, “Steam Gun” – on Chuckies’ Dirty Dutch Records. All those tracks were supported by different house music mega stars and frequently used in their sets and radio shows. The long awaited release of  “Smolengrad / United EP” was a great success and was republished by many different labels worldwide. The name of “Smolengrad” is dedicated to their hometown Smolensk. One of the most remarkable collabs with Swanky Tunes is the dance cover version of “I Wanna Be Your Dog” by The Stooges. This cover mix shows how the guys think it should sound on the dancefloor. “I Wanna Be Your Dog” came out on Sander Van Doorn’s label Doorn Records. The official video of this track has already over one million views on YouTube. Released in September 2011 on One More Tune (Warner Music) the track “Phantom” was favored and frequently played by such music gurus as: Tiesto and Axwell. In the end of 2011 Hard Rock Sofa came out with a remix on American and Canadian producers Morgan Page, BT, Sultan & Ned Shepard “In The Air”. It was real big at the Nocturnal 2011 festival and rated the best remix of 2011 by the French magazine “Only For DJs”.

In 2012 Hard Rock Sofa is planning to release several quality singles on Spinnin’ Records and Wall Recordings. They are also shooting a video for one of their new tracks. The most important event in 2012 the guys consider to be the release of “Quasar” on Axtone Records. “Quasar” is constantly included in the sets of all the Swedish House Mafia members and in December 2011 it was played by them at the greatest New York arena Madison Square Garden.

As of right now Hard Rock Sofa are successful DJs and producers in demand all over the world. They often tour Europe, US and Russia giving shows at greatest clubs and biggest fests. The Hard Rock Sofa’s shows are of good quality, full of positive energy and always tear the dancefloors up! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hard+Rock+Sofa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.