There are multiple artists with the same name:

1) -  Harlow is a hard rock/glam metal band from Los Angeles, California, USA, that was formed in 1989. The band split up in 1990. Last known line-up:

Teresa Straley - Vocals
Pat Regan - Keyboards
Tommy Thayer - Guitars
Todd Jensen - Bass
Steven Klong - Drums

2) -  Harlow was formed in Kansas City, Missouri by Mickey Kravitz, a singer with a vision to put together a glam band like no other in Kansas City. Having been mainly influenced by bands like Sweet, T-Rex, Angel, Piper, and Starz, he started his search... Local cover band The Bad Boyz were also looking for a new singer to write original music with and try to get signed, so Mickey joined up with guitarists Hyland Church and Matt Cascio, drummer Mike Rubyor, and bassist Gregg Hurla. The band found an old six story building in downtown K.C. and started writing. To accomplish their goals, they decided to live together so they could eat, drink and breathe this vision. Harlow started playing local parties and The Uptown Theater, a 1,500 seat venue. The show there went so well that they started to headline. Also, Harlow’s reputation grew for their drinking, partying, and especially all the girls. Their house was a constant party unless they were practicing. On more than one occasion, the police would bust up the party and take one of the band members to lock-up. The people at the house would pass the hat, gathering money to bail them out! Harlow hooked up with a manager that had ties with Greenworld Records and recorded their debut record, "We Do What We Wanna Do," at Chapman Studios. The band produced and Mike Frasier engineered. "Rock the Box" was added as a bonus track and was recorded after a long night of partying. The guys invited 20 or so people over to the studio to sing backup vocals. "Rock The Box" received a small amount of airplay in the United States. In 1986 the band outgrew K.C., packed up, and moved to Los Angeles. 1986 was the height of the glam scene, and Harlow fit right in on the Sunset strip. The band started playing out, recording, and built a following. 1989 saw Harlow split and went their separate ways. Mickey went on to play and record with Baby Strange and Vendetta, Hyland joined Suite 19, Grave Danger, and teamed up with ex-Dubrow and Invasion guitarist Greg Leon, and then on to DC 4. Mike and Matt moved back to K.C. and put together a couple of recording projects. Gregg moved over to the country side of music. In 2005, Cleopatra records rereleased the single "Rock The Box" on the box set "Hollywood Rocks" along with other 80’s rockers Poison, L.A. Guns, Faster Pussycat, Great White, etc… Now in 2008, Harlow has signed a deal with Retrospect Records. They are releasing a full-length album in June. The band has written some new material and will add 5 new songs with the original unreleased EP. The New CD "Now And Then" will be out July 2008

3. Based in North Hollywood, Harlow consists of lead singer Ricky Harlow and guitarist Johan Frank. The debut album "Unstoppable" produced by LA Sammy and mixed by Jay Baumgardner is a trip back to the 70s when Glam had a bang to it. 

4. Formed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.  First rising to popularity in 1980, Harlow’s Hi-NRG sound and trio of vocalists quickly swept the Disco scene.  The members were Joanne Perica, Johanna Vanderkley, and Linda Hanchar.

Their debut album, “Taking Off,” was released on G.R.A.F. Records International in 1980 and contained the singles, “Movie Queen,”Take Off” and “Mystic Lady.” Producer Mike Alyanak, with Alex Alexander, created and produced the album.  The group became a duo after Hanchar left, and they released their second and last album, "At Midnight", in 1983.  It included the singles "Midnight Celebration" and "On The Road To Mandalay".  All three members later pursued solo careers, while Hanchar and Vanderkley teamed up as Crystal In The Pink and Lois And Lane and Hanchar and Perica joined together as Fire & Ice. 

--==--

There are also numerous solo artists using the last name Harlow.

5. Larry Harlow (born Lawrence Ira Kahn, March 20, 1939, Brooklyn, New York, USA – died August 20, 2021) was an American pianist, composer, bandleader and producer, nicknamed "El Judio Maravilloso" ("The Marvelous Jew"). He formed his own Orchestra Harlow in the mid-1960s. Brother of Andy Harlow.

6. Andy Harlow  (born 1945, as Andrew Kahn) is an American Latin music flute player. He currently hosts a Latin jazz Radio program in Miami. Brother of Larry Harlow.

7) Roxann Harlow, real name Roseann Ficacci, was a drummer in NY band, Alien.

8) Allen (Al)  Harlow is a Canadian songwriter, singer and multi-instrumentalist. He is currently endeavoring in a solo career, releasing his debut solo album in 2022, he is also the frontman for Canadian Rock band PRiSM. Harlow was also a member of the Vancouver based band Seeds of Time. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Harlow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.