There are two bands with this same name;


(1) Harlott is a hard rock band formed in 2009 from Nashville, USA. 
(2) Harlott is a thrash metal band formed in 2009 from Melbourne, Australia


1. Stated sincerely and simply, that’s all it’s about for the Nashville-based four-piece steamroller,
Harlott. Drawing from a diverse set of influences in the Hard Rock, Metal, and Punk worlds,
Harlott has solidified their sound into a singular, in your face, closed-fist assault. Harlott is Hard
Rock for the workingman, the everyman, and quite often, the barman.

With the recent completion of their self-titled debut, Harlott has set their sights on supporting
the record every night with a live performance that leaves audiences - and bartenders - asking
for more. Resting on the previous year’s touring successes is not an option. As bassist Jake
Kerry states, “We want to play 364 shows a year.” Drummer J Sherrod concurs, “I’ll play two
shows in a day. I don’t care. We play live music, that’s where we connect.”

This connection transpires with Harlott pulling as much energy from their audiences as the
band doles out. “It’s the participation,” says Josh James of the back-and-forth relationship
between the band and their long-time fans, as well as with their immediate converts. Shows
are an alcohol-fueled party where Harlott fulfills the rolls of host and greeter, as well as house
band and occasional bartender. Admittedly, the band draws fans who don’t mind a sizeable bar
tab - another reason many club owners ask Harlott back for multiple return engagements.

Harlott wears its Parental Advisory marking as a badge of honor. This is not your little sister’s
favorite album. It’s raw. There is no studio magic; it’s an accurate representation of their live
performance. While not wearing their influences on their sleeves (those are covered with
tattoos anyway), Harlott delivers the hooks and groove of Aerosmith and Appetite-era Guns ‘N
Roses, the brute force of Pantera, and the pure energy of The Sex Pistols, The Clash, and the
Misfits.

Tracked almost entirely live over two days at the legendary Nashville recording house
Blackbird Studios under the helm of the Berkeley-schooled Leland Elliott, Harlott is ten tracks
of love & hate that forces listeners to alternately bang their heads and shake their asses. While
the listener is immediately drawn to the songs’ hooks and backbone, it’s the scorching lead
guitar, the explosive drums, and the sing-along choruses that seal the deal. Spanning multiple
aggressive genres Harlott has something, many times everything, for every rocker.

Formed in Nashville in March 2009, the story behind Harlott begins years earlier in the rural
Gretna, Nebraska, where frontman Josh James met guitarist Guy Christopher while in middle
school. In 2001, James followed his muse to Los Angeles. A year later, Christopher also
relocated to L.A. and the two reunited, forming Epicrash (later, Ether). A 2005 release was
completed, followed by a U.S. tour in a bus the band converted to run on recycled cooking
grease.

After several blown engines on tour, the band took separate routes back to L.A. When James
finally made his way home, both the bus and the band were defunct. Shortly after returning,
James spent a summer at his brother’s house in Tennessee to regroup and to re-evaluate his
career. Christopher remained in L.A. and found a job and a wife. The urge to play never left
him.

Without means to move to New York or any other large music industry hub and no desire to
return to Gretna, James moved to Nashville to give music another go. A late-night phone call
to Christopher convinced the guitarist that the two should once again join forces. “Let’s do a
real fucking rock and roll band.” With the two long-time collaborators once again reunited, the
search was on for a rhythm section.

In 2007, Jake Kerry, a seventeen-year-old Ohio transplant with drumming experience in
multiple hometown bands (“that sucked, obviously”) had recently moved to Nashville to study
Recording and Audio Engineering at Belmont University. Not finding like-minded artists to play
with at the renowned music school, Kerry answered a Craigslist ad and was the first bassist
to show up at James’ and Christopher’s rehearsal space. The bass position in Harlott was
secured with one question, “Who’s your favorite band?” The answer “Aerosmith” sealed the
deal.

Drummer J Sherrod was born and raised in Nashville - just the slightly out of the way Nashville,
North Carolina. “I’ve been playing drums since I was three years old,” says Sherrod, whose
drumming skills were honed by playing in every band his high school could offer: Marching
Band, Symphonic Band, Jazz Band, and Pep Band. “That was my extra-curricular activity. I
wouldn’t say I was a ‘band nerd,’ but let’s face reality, if I could be behind a drum and beat the
shit out of whatever they had to offer, I was all about it.”

A veteran of multiple North Carolina and Georgia-based bands, Sherrod relocated to Nashville,
Tennessee, in 2005. Upon finding a “Drummer Wanted: No Hired Guns” flyer at the bar where
he was working as a bouncer, Sherrod quickly checked off the artists listed in the “Influences”
section, promptly removed the flyer from the wall to eliminate competition, and scheduled a try-
out. Driving home from the audition, Sherrod knew this was his band.

Sixteen months later, the rest is history, so they say. Harlott is here and not going away. They
are here to bring back the rock: one fan at a time, one performance at a time, one shot at a
time.


2. Forged in the eastern suburbs of Melbourne, Australia. Harlott are the finest example of the thrash metal genre in recent years taking most of their influence from the 80’s bay area thrash, they focus on high energy, up tempo music with lyrical influence from the human condition. Unrivaled live concerts, an aggressive recognizable sound and professional musicianship have earned Harlott a strong and dedicated fan base in the Melbourne metal scene which still continues to grow to this day. Harlott will not only impress new audiences in and outside of the heavy metal genre, but they will also succeed in taking the fans back to the golden age of metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Harlott">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.