Harlots are a technical/progressive metal band based out of the US Midwest, with band members residing in Ohio, Wisconsin and Indiana. Taking influences ranging from Discordance Axis and Cryptopsy to Sigur Rós and Don Caballero, they combine every form of extreme music then shatter it to pieces with an ambient wall of sound.

Forming in December of 2002, Harlots released their first full length, The Woman You Saw is the Great City that Rules Over the Kings of the Earth, on Feeling Faint Productions in 2004, followed by a heavy touring schedule alongside bands such as Amora Savant, Iscariot, Psyopus, Plague Bringer, Law of All Ends and See You Next Tuesday.

Throughout 2004 and 2005, the band worked on their second full length This is the Second Death. Originally signing to Lovelost Records and slated for a November 2005 release, relations fell apart and the band eventually found a home at Corrosive Recordings, with the album released in June of 2006. This was followed by tours alongside Veil of Maya and Lye By Mistake, and a slot on Milwaukee's Robot Mosh Fest alongside Ion Dissonance, Misery Index, The Tony Danza Tapdance Extravaganza and many more.

In 2007, Corrosive Recordings released an eight track EP, The Human War Machine, before Lifeforce Records issued the third Harlots LP, Betrayer, in 2008. With recording already underway on the band's fourth full-length in late-2008 and early-2009, Jeff Lohrber announced via MySpace that the band were going on an indefinate hiatus, citing the difficulties of having bandmembers across three states, the decision to focus on other projects and the feeling that material he had written for the new album was not gaining universal support from the other band members.

Having played their last show at Robot Mosh Fest in 2008, each of the members of Harlots are now concentrating on other projects. Lohrber is recording and performing with Savior For A Fallen Hero (which also features Harlots vocalist Christian Fillippo) and Kiss The Cobra, whilst continuing to fill the drumstool for Shai Hulud and Dance Club Massacre tours and taking session gigs with Today Is The Day and Struck By Lightning. Eric Dunn also has a new band, called By Way of Sunstorm, whilst (according to Lohrber) Joshua Dillon is simply "...way bummed because he can't skate when snow is on the ground."

In his announcement about the hiatus, Lohrber was adamant that the band remained close: "...we're all still really good friends, which is why we're not breaking up. We still want to get together and play shows whenever we can, and I'm sure we will sometime soon."


http://www.myspace.com/harlots <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Harlots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.