There is more than one musician called Harm:

1. Harm an Gangsta Rap artist hailing from the S.F. Bay area.

2. Harm is a Drum & Bass producer signed on Gain Records.

3. Harm is a thrash-metal band from Mandal, Norway. The band was formed in 1997 by singer/bassplayer Steffan Schulze. After some some line-up changes, an unofficial demo with their material was released in 2003.

They recorded their first official single "Harm" in Verdenzromme studios (2003). Good response both to the CD and live performance, resulted in a new recording, released as "Unleashed" in 2004. A music-video was made for the track Planet God.

Harm has recently signed a record deal with Sublife Productions, who released their first official album with the title "Devil" in 2006.

In the spring of 2007 Harm had to cancel some shows because lead-guitarist Tor Erik suffered some serious health-problems. During the summer of 2007 Frank Ørland (ex-Scariot) was announced as a session member of the band. Tor Erik is still a close friend with the band and will contribute with material for upcoming albums.

In December 2007 it was announced that drummer Tov Aanonsen had decided to leave the band. He wanted to focus more on his private live and work, and was unable to give 100% as a member of the band. He and the band decided that it was better for him to leave the band and find a new drummer.

The band is currently looking for a new drummer and lead guitarist.

The members of Harm has earlier performed in bands like:
Scariot, Inherit, Dimenzion Psychosphere, BZM and Champain.

Current Lineup:
-Steffan Schulze (bass and vocals)
-Ronnie Eriksen (rythm guitar)
-Frank Ørland (lead guitar) (session)

Former/Past Members:
-Tor Erik Andersen (lead guitar)
-Lloyd Kenneth Osestad (drums)
-Tov Aanonsen (drums)

More information can be found on the official Harm website: http://www.harm-online.com/ and on their myspace site: http://www.myspace.com/harmmetal.

harm (small h) is also one half of DOOM FIST.

4. Harm is a hard rock/metal band hailing from Hamilton Ontario, Canada. Formed in 2004 Harm specializes in a groove oriented impactful style that has been steadily winning audiences over day by day. Harm first began recording their self titled debut in 2006 finishing it and releasing it in 2008 to unanimous praise and an appearance on the Kill City 12 compilation distributed by California based label 272 records.. The incredible reception received by the album led Harm to work with noted producer Tom Treumeth who produced Harms second album "The Nine" which was released in Europe in the fall of 2009 to glowing reviews from Metal Hammer, Rock Hard, Slam and Stardust magazines to name a few. In 2010 Harm joined forces fully with E1 entertainment to release the Nine to the worldwide audience it deserves. Look for the commanding singles "Little Pariah" and "Another Conspiracy".

Members:
Steve Sharpen (Vocals)
Tim Ellis (Drums)
Ania Fritch (Bass)
Mike Allen (Guitar)


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Harm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.