There are four artists with the name Harris.  

One is an indie rock band from Boston, MA:

Mike and Matt first met while attending U-Mass Lowell in the Fall of 2000. Their main bond was a love of underground music, from soft indie-rock to hardcore. Both had been in bands in high school and had similar ideas of what they wanted to do with music. Before relocating the band to Boston, the lineup was solidified with the additions of Rob on drums, Jon on guitar, and Jim on keyboards.

Three weeks after Jim joined the band, Harris embarked on a three-and-a-half week tour out to California and back armed with a trailer full of equipment, and CD cases filled with albums by the Weakerthans, the Dismemberment Plan, Chisel, At the Drive In, Trans-Am, Drive Like Jehu, Beck, and Refused. Matt ended up with stitches in his head, Jon had all of his valuables stolen, and Mike had killed a buzzard with the windshield of the mini-van. What tour is complete without human and animal sacrifice?

When all was said and done Harris had performed in 23 new cities. Before leaving for another extensive tour, the quintet decided to write sharper, more ambitious material. For a year they tested their new songs in Boston, Providence, New York, and Philadelphia rock clubs, basements, and VFW halls. They soon decided it was time to start tracking for their first full-length release which became The Light Is Seeping Through the Cracks, released in 2005.

The second is a German hip hop artist.

The third Harris is an unsigned German band based in Bamberg:

Harris - usually written HARRIS - usually consist of Stefan (guitar and noise), Blacky (drums, perc) and Heinzz (bass). Their motto is "UGLY CHORDS SAVE LIVES". Available songs include "Creme Vliet", "Elmar", "aSTRR" and "Three Men Can Keep A Secret If Two Are Dead". They are known to play raunchy gigy in and around Bamberg. The music is surf psychedelica, rock --- ugly chords save lives, just as the man says.

The 4th Harris - is the alias of Melbourne artist Noah Harris. 

Melbourne songwriter HARRIS has been at odds with his musical self for near a decade. During which, he has found himself on a journey that has been both predictable and completely erratic; one of unimaginable circumstances that have shaped the scope of his creative pursuits, and the trajectory of his young adult life.

HARRIS has spent the last year and a half, the majority of which spent in lock down in Melbourne, working the songs which are now compiled together into his first solo body of work, OK kombucha (July 2021). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HARRIS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.