1) Finnish hardcore band

2) French rock band

--==--

1) -  - Harsh was formed in the autumn of 95 with idea of doing intense fast hardcore like no-one in Finland did before. Inluenced by Infest and others. Style developed during the years from straight forward fast chaotic core to more complicated power violence/grind/hc/??... fusion with lots of tempo changes, strange riffs, stop'n'goes, and spastic blasts beat. All members contribute to the music and lyrics, sometimes more, sometimes less.

Original line-up splitted up permanently after show in August '96. It took until spring '97 when 3 former member decided to continue without guitar player and asked new member to join for 2nd bass.

Whole existence of Harsh, the 4 members have lived in 3 different cities. Distance beetween some members is about 400 km, and this situation does now allow regular rehearsal schedule. With new line-up, our playing has become tighter, faster and skills to hadle instruments is improved from the beginning. However, there is all the time less and less rehearsals, and finally we are in situation when we rehearse basically just before gigs or recordings, but not "just for fun", like many others.

Harsh is not political band in the sense what people often understand with that word. We deal with the subjects related to our daily life or thoughs. Occasionally lyrics can be sometimes a bit overstated, but writers always stand behind what they say. The re is little difference beetween lyrics of old and new Harsh. See yourself

2) -  French rock band from Paris - Never has a band’s name been more accurate, “Harsh“.

It’s with the dizzying scents of a Jack Daniel’s laid against the amp, with saturated Gibsons meeting the leopard leggings, and by the frenetic scenic passion that you can guess the typical glam style of the Parisian band, formed by twenty-years-old.

Their influences? The old vinyls, worn out and embalmed with a fragrance of a beer by Van Halen, Guns N’ Roses, Bon Jovi, Mötley Crüe… All these references that will make the band cause a distortion hurricane, bringing us back directly to the golden age of the 80’s.

The band released their single “Under The L.A. Sun” in 2018, then recorded their first EP “Slave“, out since October 13th, 2018. Since then, Harsh has released a new single “Tease Me” and has been playing across France and abroad, opening for international artists like “Inglorious”, and are announced on the European tour of “Loudness” and “Anvil” in 2020 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Harsh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.