Exhibition of a new dawn, the grotesque, the dark, the creepy yet infectiously intriguing…

Spawned from the diverse environment of Melbourne, Australia, Hatchet Dawn has founded its proud doctrine creating and writing original modern heavy music. Formulating a signature twisted from a spooky dark mixture of heavy rock, metal and alternative music to craft a sound like none other, along with a touch haunting graveyard class. “It is a unique feeling to be in a band so diverse in all aspects and has a vibe like none other” remarks vocalist Bert Cuzens.

Imparted by an aesthetic dark dapper image, Hatchet Dawn enhances depth and demeanour to front a monstrous dark sound reminiscent of Rammstein, Marilyn Manson or Rob Zombie. “We’re all about giving both visual and sonic experiences. It’s about entertainment. We want people to walk away inspired” explains bassist Billie-Jade. Hatchet Dawn’s compendium draws you into their disquieting spooky world “While writing material for Rebirth it was critical our sound is recognised as Hatchet Dawn. Every band has influences, but we sit in a place where we aren’t looking to replicate” says guitarist Howsie Noise.

Hatchet Dawn leaves an instant impression and a standout presence to any live venue spanning a tightly constructed live set, gaining full attention for the entirety of every performance. “You can expect nothing but great vibes at every hatchet show” explains Howsie Noise. “We all have a blast on stage and we love to feel close to our fans and connect with anyone enjoying what we do.” Hatchet Dawn supported Marilyn Manson during October 2009 for 4 shows in Adelaide and Melbourne wining over 5,000+ capacity venues. The Hatchet Dawn interactive live experience is only a portion to the big picture leaving no doubt that the band is on the brink of a dark new day in heavy music history.

Following up from the 2009 Faith in Chaos EP and a successful launch into the music world, Hatchet Dawn are currently in the process working on the bands next project with renowned producer Neil Kernon (Cannibal Corpse, Nile, Nevermore, Deicide, Judas Priest, Macabre, Hall & Oats, Michael Bolton, Queensryche, Dokken, XYZ, Lynch Mob). “Neil has worked with the broadest music genres and bands that we look forward to his collaboration and influence on our new material” tells guitarist Daz. Bassist Billie-Jade adds “We are focusing one step at a time on our next release so it will be the strongest, most impactful representation of the statement we want to get across.”

Will you dare to witness this dark new dawn? <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hatchet+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.