There are multiple artists with the name Hater:

1) The Swedish indie pop quartet Hater released their debut EP Radius this summer and now they’re back with new music in the shape of new single “Mental Haven”, the first single from their upcoming debut LP You Tried. You Tried is due on March 10 next year, released via Swedish indie label PNKSLM Recordings, and the album is produced by Swedish producer Joakim Lindberg (a Malmö based producer who’s previously worked with acclaimed indie acts such as YAST and Hey Elbow). A big step forward for the young act, more confident and melodious than the EP, but still retaining the urgency along with a heavy dose of both emotion and heart. 

 Hater was formed this spring by Caroline Landahl, Måns Leonartsson, Adam Agace and Lukas Thomasson, all musicians based in Sweden’s third biggest city Malmö, just across the strait from Copenhagen, who’d all had their share of experience in other local acts before deciding to strike out as Hater. They quickly set to recording what would become their debut EP Radius, working with Joakim Lindberg, and soon signed with PNKSLM Recordings who released the EP in early July. Taking their musical cues from the likes of Alvvays, The Pretenders, Neil Young and The Radio Dept., all led by Landahl’s gorgeous vocals, Hater soon drew a lot of attention, including praise from international music publications such as The FADER and The Line of Best Fit. 

Among those to declare themselves fans were the band’s heroes in The Radio Dept. who asked them to open for them on their first Scandinavian tour in five years. After spending the summer and early fall recording You Tried while touring around Sweden and making their UK debut show in London, Hater will be touring with The Radio Dept. later this year ahead of a full UK and EU tour around the album release this spring. With You Tried Hater easily establishes themselves as Sweden’s most exciting new indie act, offering up a sound that’s both instantly accessible and grows with every listen.

2) Hater was a side-project in the 1990s composed of Matt Cameron (Soundgarden, Temple of the Dog, Pearl Jam), Ben Shepherd (Soundgarden), John McBain (Monster Magnet), and Brian Wood (brother of Mother Love Bone frontman Andrew Wood).  The band, minus Mr. Wood, would later form the group Wellwater Conspiracy, which was composed of the trio remaining.  

Hater's self-titled debut album was recorded between Soundgarden's two epic albums Badmotorfinger and Superunknown and released in 1993.  Although the band only released one album during their time together, a second album came about 12 years later in 2005 when demos from their 1995 sessions surfaced.  The band strays away from Soundgarden's Black Sabbath and Led Zeppelin's hard-rock style.  Instead, Hater plays more like garage rock with a classic rock sound, which is summed up with their cover of Cat Stevens's "Mona Bone Jakon." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hater">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.