Hate Control
 
LUKAS GASPAR - VOCALS 
TOMAS VERESKY - GUITAR 
MATEJ KOVAC - GUITAR
JURAJ SHIMO JURICEK - BASS
ANDY VALOVIC - DRUMS. 

about us:

Slovakia has never been known as a promised land of heavy metal music, but that doesn't mean you won't find any metal bands that don’t know a thing or two about this genre there. One of these are Bratislava-based heavy-hitters Hate Control whose debut album The Die Is Cast has just seen the light of day. As the band name suggests this is not for the faint-hearted. What you get is a merciless and undeniably explosive blend of modern metal with hints to hardcore, thrash or death metal  accompanied by an intensity rarely witnessed (and heard from) in this region. The music of Hate Control is basically a reflection of the individual band members, because as vocalist Lukas Gaspar says: "Every member listens to a slightly different type of music, is a different personality, so you can hear this diversity", while guitar player Tomas Veresky adds: "We love the energy this music radiates and try to transfer it between ourselves and our audience. I can be disgusted with everything around me, but once I get onstage and see people digging our music, I am in my happy place!"

Hate Control was formed in summer 2008 and after several line-up changes the band now consists of : Tomas Veresky – g,  Matej Kovac – g, Andrej Valovic – dr, Lukas Gaspar – voc a Juraj Juricek – bg. During the band practices the songs had been slowly taking shape and details were addressed. When the time came, the band decided to record the accumulated songs, so in May 2010 they occupied Morpheus studio in Halic for several days and consequently used its mixing and mastering services. "I see making our debut album as the  ultimate experience, not only regarding music, but life in general.  We put our heart and soul into it. From every point of view this is our message to the world," says guitar player Matej. The songs had been almost 100 % ready, even though there were some modifications and changes, mainly regarding various guitar parts, because as Tomas adds with a smile: 
"When the muse kicks in, you just gotta put it there, right?"
   

So why Hate Control ? The name could suggest that guys love to wallow in negativity, but nothing could be further from truth: "It is just the opposite. When you are not doing well at all and everything seems black and dark, you can't give yourself up to hate or other negative emotions, because they will eventually become your only reality," says Matej. And this concept is followed in the lyrics. "We want to show people that we all have issues, but you can't give up, you have to fight", adds vocalist and lyricist Lukas. 

And the title of the debut album ? "The die is cast, the album is out, we start to play our game," says Lukas and Matej concludes : "A fitting title for the path we've chosen when we started to play this music. We've created something and it cannot be undone…like when you throw snake eyes and you know you're fucked!"    



www.myspace.com/hatecontrol1
www.bandzone.cz/hatecontrol

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HATE+CONTROL">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.