Hatenation was born on 2007, in a village closed to Barcelona called Gavà. The beginning formers were Dany, Enrique and Edu, performing some heavy metal stuff, these three guys come from another heavy metal band (Rebel Pride) sharing scene with several best heavy metal Spanish bands, like Baron Rojo, Avalanch...

Due to some style evolutions on the musicians they tried to explore and also to listen another kind of bands and improving the way of composing.

During mid 2007 the bassist Sting and the singer Ramon joined to the band. This was a totally change of mind on the composing way. The changed from classic heavy metal, becoming to a metal-core band. They changed from D to Dropped C tuning to get more power on the songs and also on the vocals they mixed melodic parts and aggressive ones.

They played on several concerts around Barcelona, the compositions become harder and that implies more technical on musicians, on this point the drummer left the band looking for another kind of style. On July 2008 Luis joined the band coming from other extreme metal bands. They spent all the summer to prepare the most important concert that they have during they career, playing on one of the best places in Barcelona (Razzmatazz), during this period the band modify with the entry of Luis all the songs becoming it more powerful and aggressive also taking care on compositions to get a very personal style.

On November 2008 the lead singer left the band and Carlos joined Hatenation. Carlos comes from extreme metal bands from Valencia, and gives to Hatenation a new upcoming sound. During 2009 and early 2010 Hatenation played on several gigs around Spain (Bilbo, Ciudad Real, Valencia, etc.) with a lot of success and signed with the German major label CMM-SAOL. Unfortunately, one of the first former members (Dany) left the band and a new guitar player, Igna Jover, joined Hatenation.

On July 2010 they recorded their first album "Blacklist" at Wheel Sound Studio. This album is full of powerful and brilliant death metal songs. It will be release and distributed in Europe and America by H'Art Distribution and online by Zebralution.

After recording the album, Hatenation signs with the worldwide Management and Booking agency StormBlaze. Also they currently they signed with several music brands as endorser like, Santa Fe Drums, Spector Basses, Roland, Jimy Picks, Te&Son Sticks, Axis Percussion….

But it's just the beginning... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hatenation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.