Hateful Vacuum... (according to legends)

Bloody Waters – Lead Vocals, Bass

Bloody Waters is quite simply the epitome of hatred and evil in this world. Any atrocity that mankind can recall can be traced back to the entity that is embodied within Bloody. As long as evil has existed, as has Bloody. The only way that this sheer killing machine can be kept at bay is by maintaining a constant flow of alcohol into his bloodstream. In addition to music, apparently alcohol soothes the savage beast. So long as he is kept in a drunken stupor, the world as we know it will remain safe. Cheers to you, Bloody Waters!

The Chuggernaut – Guitar Hero, Vocals

While his actual earthly age is unknown, many cultures believe that the Chuggernaut’s origins can be traced back to 18th Century Germany, where a well known and beloved tavern owner by the name of Adolph Chugenheizer fell into, and subsequently drown in a vat of beer he had been working on that claimed to prolong the life of those who drank it. The tavern owner was discovered at the bottom of an almost empty vat, his body having absorbed over an estimated 400 gallons of the life-preserving ale. As the mortician was preparing the body to be viewed by the townspeople, it is said that the tavern owner sat straight up, and began to walk out of the funeral home. The mortician cried out, “Heir Chugenheizer, you’re alive!” The response from the man who rose from the table was, “Adolph Chugenheizer is gone. Long live the Chuggernaut!!”

Tipsy Russell – Guitar God, Vocals

Some years ago, authorities were sent to investigate the crash site of a large object just after an exceptionally heavy meteor shower. When they reached the site, they discovered what appeared to be a large metal brewing vat bearing strange markings that were clearly not of this world. Unfortunately, there was little left of the “craft” that brought a strange, new visitor to Earth. As they were about to call to have the wreckage picked up for further investigation, a high-pitched wail screeched from inside a nearby barn. As they approached the barn, the doors swung open and out of a blinding light emerged, or rather, staggered forth what is now known to us as Tipsy Russell, Guitar God.

Angus DeLuxe – Drums, Vocals

A renowned French chef who graduated from Bovine University in 1926, Angus Deluxe (pronounced De Loo’) toured all of Europe bringing his culinary knowledge of filleting and grilling to thousands of adoring diners. The fastest in the world with two meat cleavers, he was often challenged by aspiring chefs to test his skills. During his final competition, Angus had begun to drink heavily, as he was assured another victory. The contest, however, was rigged, and Angus lost to a new budding chef. Angus went into frenzy, and having only two meat cleavers in his hands at the time, he laid waste to all who attended the competition. He was later discovered in an alleyway, dead from alcohol poisoning. A professor from the French Science Academy vowed to reanimate the chef, and through behavioral engineering, to replace the dangerous cleavers with drum sticks. Obviously, he succeeded, as Angus has lost no speed from the days when his sticks were blades of destruction.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hateful+Vacuum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.