Hate Eternal is a Death Metal band from Florida, United States. They were formed in 1997, while founder/frontman Erik Rutan was touring and recording as guitarist for death metal legends, Morbid Angel. Rutan has been the band's sole constant member. The group's original line-up included bassist and co-vocalist Jared Anderson, drummer Tim Yeung, and guitarist Doug Cerrito of the band Suffocation. The band have released six full-length studio albums and one live album to date, the most recent being 2015's Infernus.

In 2002, drummer Derek Roddy (formerly of Nile, Divine Empire, and Malevolent Creation) replaced Tim Yeung, and the band set forth to record their second album, King of All Kings as a trio with Erik, Jared and Derek. That summer, Erik Rutan parted ways with Morbid Angel to devote more time to Hate Eternal.

In 2004, the band started work on the much-anticipated follow-up, entitled I, Monarch. Recording began in the fall and the album was released in June of 2005. Hailed by critics and fans alike, the album put forth an innovative new musical approach in death metal, while retaining the speed and brutality prevalent in the genre. The group's musical talent, as well as their production, shined like never before - both individually and collectively.

After an internally difficult U.S. tour over the summer of 2005, and with a number of pending business problems, the group canceled their European tour, which had been scheduled for the fall. After spending much of the winter dealing with internal differences and personal situations, Derek Roddy departed in March of 2006.

Hate Eternal signed a contract with Metal Blade Records and released Fury & Flames on February 22, 2008. This features three new members: Shaune Kelley (Guitars), Alex Webster (Bass, Cannibal Corpse) and Jade Simonetto (Drums).

To date, Hate Eternal has released four albums: Conquering the Throne (1999), King of All Kings (2002), I, Monarch (2005), and "Fury & Flames" (2008). The last three full length albums were produced by Rutan.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hate+Eternal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.