Hateseed is a band from Poland (Gdańsk) playing a mixture of heavy, power and thrash metal. Band has been created in 2004 as a solo project of Marek "Czacha" Żmuda after his previous band Stormwatch has broken up. Originally, band name was DeadHead and songs were to be made available only online. In 2006 Marek recorded his first demo called “My Hate” which featured the four songs. In the process of recording at home as a welcoming musicians were drawn Adaś, DJ Death, Grucha, Kamila and Lorak. 

In August 2006 DeadHead extended by one person – guitarist Łukasz “DJ” Szostak. He was originally just to take the solos, but when Marek heard him singing for fun song called "Ride the Sky" by Helloween, Czacha decided to entrust to him the duties of lead vocalist. Together they began to create new material for another demo. Inspired by bands such as Running Wild, Iron Maiden, Mercyful Fate / King Diamond, Megadeth, Turbo, Dissection, Death and the aforementioned Helloween. 

Over time, guys began to searcf for someone who would take the low registers. A brief conversation over a beer on the pitch caused, that in 2007 the band recruited bass player - Bartosz "Bart" Kołodziejczyk, who played back then in a band called Neimes, but he abandoned it a few months later, devoting himself entirely to the new project. The composition was completed less than a year later, as a young drummer Jacek "Gofer" Serwatko has been found by Marek on the internet. 

The following months were devoted to rehear old pieces and create new ones. Then the decision was made to involve a change in the name of the band for Hateseed. This was related primarily to the fact that there was already a band called DeadHead, and the guys did not want to be associated with death metal. 

In the winter of 2009, under new name, Hateseed arrived on time in the Rainbow Studios in Gdynia to record a song called "The Souleater”. The final effect can be heard on the bands MySpace page (www.myspace.com/hateseedband). Unfortunately, in the summer of that year, Marek leaves HateSeed because of his personal issues, however he is still supporting the band by making some new songs etc. Czacha is replaced by Kamil Janulewicz, who gave up earlier in another band - Hurricane. Kamil quickly learned all the material, which allowed HateSeed to get ready for concerts.

29 January 2010 at the club Rockz - supporting Darkmere - Hateseed debuted on the boards of the Tri-City metal scene. Then there were more gigs, but the most important so far has been organized by HateSeed and foundation "Our Children" - "Tribute to Dio". On the scene of famous “Ucho Club” (Gdynia) there were 6 bands playing covers of Black Sabbath, Dio and Rainbow. HateSeed was playing with famous Polish musicians such as Tomasz Struszczyk (Turbo), Grzegorz Kupczyk and Bartek Sadura (both Ceti) and Ksawery Buczkowski (Panteon). Income from the event - over 5400zl - was transferred for the purchase of cell separator (the equipment needed to fight leukemia) for clinic Pediatrics, Hematology, Oncology and Endocrinology, University Medical Centre in Gdańsk. 

Now it's time for the seeds of hatred to grow…


Bang Your Head 'til it's Dead!

www.myspace.com/hateseedband
www.facebook.com/Hateseed
http://www.lastfm.pl/music/HateSeed
Contact: hateseed@wp.pl 

Discography:
Hate Comes Crawling - 2012

Current Line-up:
Kamil Janulewicz - gitara rytmiczna
Łukasz Szostak - gitara prowadząca i wokal
Bartek Kołodziejczyk - gitara basowa
Jacek Serwatko - perkusja

Previous members:
Marek Żmuda - gitara rytmiczna <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hateseed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.