Hate Squad is a groove orientated thrash metal band from Germany (Hannover/Niedersachsen).

The story of Hate Squad begins on April 18th, 1993. "Suffering" from too much spare time, Burkhard Schmitt (v), Tim Baumeister (g), Helge Dolgener (d) and Robert Radeka (g) decided to form a band. The bands goal was not to limit itself, the material was supposed to be aggresive and first of all groovy ! Due to the fact that Hate Squad represented the first band for all four musicians it is even more astonishing that in September 1994 after an intensive songwriting and rehearsing process, Hate Squad produced and realeased the first demo tape "Theater of Hate" . Reactions by press and fans can only be described as euphoric, which lead to 2000 sold copies within a surprisingly short time. The first offers from serious labels was the logical consequence of this success. 

Hate Squad decided to cooperate with German label GUN Records /BMG (Kreator, Sodom, Guano Apes etc). During the summer of 1994, the band recorded their debut album "Theater of Hate" in the Big House Studios (Hanover, Germany), which was released November 1994. Critics and fans alike were overwhelmed and is spite of the fact that the album lives from ist youthful naivety and spontanity, Hate Squad often was considered as the newcomer '94, which was supported by numerous pole positions in the relevent press polls. "Theater of Hate" sold about 8000 copies. During the first part of 1995 Hate Squad was extremely present on the live sector, playing tours, festivals and gigs in Germany and the rest of Europe with such bands as Death, Gorefest, Machine Head, Tiamat, Life of Agony, Type O Negative, Biohazard, Venom, Sick of it All, Atrocity, Nailbomb, Fear Factory, Downset, Mercyful Fate, Paradise Lost, Dog Eat Dog, Dub War, Crematory, etc. Foremost, the Full of Hate Easterfestivals and the gig at the Dynamo Open Air in Eindhoven (Holland) have to be pointed out, where the band celebrated the 10th Anniversary of the festival together with 120.000 fans and rocked the Hollands largest tent stage. 

From July through August 1995 Hate Squad recorded their 2nd album in the Crownhill Studios (Düsseldorf, Germany). End of August two videos were shot for "Not my God" and "I.Q.Zero". I.Q.Zero was released in October 1995. Both videos were broadcasted on a regular basis on MTV (Headbangers Ball) and Viva TV (Metalla). The latter even dedicated a whole program to the band, before the album release. Hate Squad presented their new material for the first time during "POP KOMM 1995" in Cologne, Germany and played a merciless Thrash metal show to a completely defenseless crowd together with Kreator. On October 26th 1995 a 2 months European tour was kicked off in Barcelona, Spain together with Kreator, Grip Inc. (featuring Dave Lombardo - ex.Slayer) and Pyogenesis. During that tour, which lead Hate Squad all over the European Continent, the band also played some festivals with Testament. The whole tour was extremely successful for the band, special coverages on the tour were broadcasted by MTV and VIVA before the band was elected "newcomer of the year 95" (2nd Fear factory, 3rd Korn) on "Metalla" (VIVA TV). The poll of Rock Hard Magazine was similarly successful for the band, where Hate Squad appeared on several front positions in categories like "best live band", "best album", "newcomer of the year", "best band", "favorite musician" or "personality 95", I.Q. ZERO became the most successful Hate Squad album so far and sold far more than 10.000 copies. 

During the first half of 1996, Hate Squad kept on working. Numerous headliner shows were played all over Germany while the band worked on new material. On July 24th 1996 the band released a remix EP, "Sub Zero - The Remixes", which featured Die Krupps, T.A.S.S, Gigantor and some other big names of the Techno-scene, who remixed several Hate Squad tracks. On the same day Hate Squad supported Brazil's finest, Sepultura in Hate Squad's home town Hanover. The 2000 fans really made the band feel like home. Hate Squad thanked them with a high-energy concert, that people would remember. After further shows as headliner and several festivals (with Schweisser, Ramstein, etc.) Hate Squad started to record their 3rd album "Pzyco!" in Malaga, Spain which was produced by Daniel Berstrand (Stuck Mojo, Mesuggah, Ocean Machine,...). "Pzyco!" was released in April 1997 and showed different sides of Hate Squad. Opinions concerning the album diverged extremely. While the album received 9 out of 10 points (for the first time for a Hate Squad album) in Rock Hard Magazine, the album was elected on one of the last positions in Metal Hammer Magazine. Nevertheless, the band was featured on a 1 Hour special on VIVA's Metalla. The new video clip for the title track "PZYCO!" were broadcasted on Metalla as well as on Superrock (MTV). 

During May 1997 the band presented their new material on the 3rd Summer Metal Meetings (with Kreator, Sodom, Exodus, etc.) on several open air festivals (like Super Crash in Rendsburg) and headliner shows. In spite of offers for interesting tours with for example Testament, Spudmonsters, etc. no extensive tour could be accomplished due to lack of financial support by the label GUN. As a consequence, the band and the label parted ways. 

Rumour had it that the band was about to split up (also thanks to some journalists). Hate Squad would not be Hate Squad, if they just simply split after 5 successful years. Who really knows the band must have been aware, that a solution for the difficult situation was to be found. In January 1998, all band members decided to start from scratch and to step up to all critics and enemies (musically, certainly). The first songs are already written and show the most brutal side of Hate Squad. In 1993, several magazines elected Hate Squad the best unsigned band of Europe. In 1998, the band is back as the only unsigned band on the 5th "With Full Force Open Air" at the Zwickau airport (with Suicidal Tendencies, Danzig, Motörhead, Slayer, Paradise Lost, Venom, etc.) Hate Squad will take their chance and present an explosive cocktail of old classics. The fan base is definitly still there and the band can rely on 3 excellent albums and a good reputation. There is no doubt, Hate Squad are stronger than ever. The next 5 years have just began, full of groove and aggression. 

2004 - The comeback
After a few warm up shows with Snapcase and Time in Malta ,HATE SQUAD did enter the legendary Horus Sound Studio (Kreator,Paradis Lost,Guano Apes) with producer Herman Frank (Accept,Victory) to record the new album ! Now they have finished the recordings and mixing and those who read this should have the new record in their hands !!! 
(biography taken from www.h8forthemasses.com) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hate+Squad">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.