HAULER was a true force in aggressive underground music (sadly, now broken up). See the band member's new bands: Grievous and El Cerdo (both on myspace.com)

"Guitarist/vocalist Aaron Edge's wrecking ball of charged emotion remains as crushing as ever, guitarist Jayson Smith thunders, while drummer Nick Parks and bassist Ben Joner trawl the infinite depths of the soul as the band crushes its fans into a frenzy. HAULER reach their ultimate state of heaviness in the most real sense by mixing emotion and aggressiveness with a random, haphazard take on their song writing. The band often starts with one huge riff and songs revolve and twist around that only... often weaving 'round a root note that never leaves the listener, ever. The structure is simple, the math is wrong, the changes are monuments of burl. HAULER is not out to impress anyone, but long-lasting impressions are made, regardless. The bands lyrical subject matter dwells mostly in human pain, misery, and the search for release through and in dark thought... HAULER ultimately confronts and attempts to conquer what many are afraid to face; themselves. The lyrics are secondary to the brutal sound of the bands high decibel, but careful care is taken when the lyrics are written, hitting home and inspiring thought in the human spirit. The vocals are often buried deep within the doomy music, inviting the listener to find meaning in themselves, rather than taking spoon-fed words without introspection and personal research. Fans of Mastodon, Harkonen, Clutch, Cavity and Isis; enjoy now a new band built of wrath, rage and fury! The precision bludgeoning of HAULER has been documented by Kris Crummett (also behind the knobs of Crosstide, Anatomy of A Ghost, The Horde and others). "The Haymaker EP" CDep now sells on the band's merch tables (backed by Worm Fodder Recordings), while there is currently a dialogue with new labels concerning the release of the band's next cd. With pummeling outbursts of aggression, tempered with a deepened expression of their trademark trucking style, HAULER's sound has truly arrived with the release of this material. With their need to produce thunderous "stone throwing rock", HAULER remains on top as a recognized flagship of no-nonsense musical values, uncompromising vision and ultimate heaviness. Hauler contains ex-members of Himsa, Nihilist, Harkonen, Christ, 2 Men Dead." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hauler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.