There are two bands with this name: 

1) THE BAND THAT CHAINSAWS THE FANS! Haunted garage accidentally formed on a drunken night in 1985 when screenwriter Dukey Flyswatter, bassist Tim Henderson and author Jan Henderson (no relation) bemoaned how no one had ever done a band that covered songs from horror films and sleazoid cinema like Green Slime, The Blob, Devil's Angels, Village Of The Giants and Satan's Sadists. The band started with a rockabilly psychedelic flavor but when the audience thought the songs were originals about films instead of from films the band started writing their own material.

The band had some theatrics at first but nothing like what was to come. After going through various members from The Pop, Stan Ridgway Band, Jackie De Shannon Band, Wasted Youth, Screamers and The Eyes, Dukey finally settled with King Dinosaur, Gaby Godhead, Johnny Ho and Johnny Hell from the Texas band Junkyard. At that point, the band started to take off and Dukey became more insane (really). The Stage show grew until people expected quality make-up, gallons of stage blood, nudity, piercings, whippings, brains, fire, fire extinguishers full of water, Gore Gore Girls, amputees and the nightly chainsawing of a fan, celebrity or facsimile of someone famous.

In 1989, Johnny Hell left the band and was replaced by drummer Stiff Slug, making their sound faster and harder. They recorded a double single with a 3D cover by tattooist Bob Vessels and 3D expert Ray Zone. They Appeared on three compilations and debuted their full length CD for Metal Blade/Warner Brothers records in 1990 before touring Europe with the Cramps for that release.

In November of 1992 the band played their last official show due to creative and financial differences. The Gig at Hollywood's Coconut Teaser was way oversold and things got so out of hand by the end that the crowd tore down the sprinkler systems and a riot ensued. The band reunited at the Whiskey-A-Go-Go in 1995 and again in 2001 at a huge downtown Thanksgiving party. Dukey would always hump a raw turkey on Thanksgivng while naked and covered in stage blood and slime. A reunion is now scheduled in Hollywood for Friday the 13th of June 2008. Stay Gross and Twisted and support your local bands.


2)HAUNTED GARAGE (PHILIPPINES ) is a band formed in Tabaco City, Albay, Philippines in the year 2000 by  Jimple Borlagdan ,   Nukie Cañon ,  and   Rodel Aguilar   as Haunted Garage--a tribute to the old room in Jimple's Lola's house, where the band jams. When Nukie and Rodel eventually left the band in 2003, Jimple's brother   Jimzzy Borlagdan ,   Waxx Ko , and   Binat Pelaez  on bass, all from other groups, joined in. 

The band was among the poineer bands of the Tabaco City, Albay, Roots series, created by Auwgz Pelaez, Binat's Brother, which booked 13 major gigs in Legazpi City and Tabaco City, Albay for four years. Then when Binat Pelaez was voted out of the band, due to differences, Jun Lim was taken in. During this time two singles (Clowns and Hari ng Walang Hanggang Parusa) by the band were recorded. In the end  Jun Lim  had to go and Waxx assumed the jinxed bass slot. 

Recently, the band gave up their original name to a foreign band, and adopted Krear Bathala as the official band's name, as it heralds a new musical direction that veers more to Bikolano-sensitive songs, and it repackaged the band's new three-piece line-up.

This year, three of their singles (Clowns, Hari ng Walang Hanggang Parusa, bootlegged Kagadanan) were included in the "Tanog Tabaco: A definitive Original Tabaqueño Music Compilation" album, and their newly recorded song "Kagadanan" will come out in the Albay music compilation "Ribok."

Musically, the band is hard to define, as they fuse unpopular mixtures of traditional colonial music with old and new schools of rock. Some categorize them as old school metal, like Iron Maiden and Wolfgang, while others label them as prog rock or just plain rock. In spite of this, Krear Bathala is clear on one thing: They exist only for the attainment of Tanog Tabaco, the mythical true Bikolano Sound.

Their works can be sampled at their offical website, www.krearbathala.multiply.com.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Haunted+Garage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.