Haust grew up in Notodden in the hills of Norway, in the shadows of hotrod hicks and the black metal crowd surrounding Emperor. Haust never were a part of these groups, but were inevitably infected by the mix of white trash and black metal. The early forms of Haust started in 2001, but it was around the the time of their relocation to Oslo in 2007 things started to pick up, as a part of the Black Hole Crew along with Okkultokrati and Dark Times among others.

After Haust relocated to Oslo they were quickly picked up by Tiger Records’ newly started label Fysisk Format. “Ride the Relapse” from 2008 was actually the very first album that the label released, and with songs like “White Trash Extravaganza” and “Ugly Fucking Oslo” Haust became a focal point and defining reference for like-minded people in Oslo.

The follow-up release “Powers of Horror” from 2010 was a more complex record. They grew increasingly experimental, examplified by “Anti-Reproductive“s sado-nazi-zombie-video. Haust grew internationally after this album, and among other things toured with Rotten Sound and Trap Them.

In 2012, Haust went through some line-up changes, with Dag Otto Basgård and Ruben Willem leaving the band on a friendly note. The band’s core is now Vebjørn Guttormsgaard Møllberg on vocals and Pål Bredrup on guitar. The album “NO”, released in 2013, marked as such a new beginning for the band. A testament to this is another pair of music videos, “Swells” and the title track. Though highly different visually, they put to the screen the same primitive rage that fuels the entire album.
 
Releases: 
2014 Fall 7" on Fysisk Format
2013 NO CD/MC/LP on Fysisk Format
2011 Black Hole X-mas 7" split VINYL with Okkultokrati on Fysisk Format
2010 Powers of Horror CD/MC/LP on Fysisk Format
2010 12" split VINYL with Next Life on Fysisk Format 
2008 Ride The Relapse CD/LP on Fysisk Format 
2008 7" split VINYL with The White Tiger Prepade on Norway Rat Records

More info can be found at http://www.fysiskformat.no/wp_ff/roster/haust/


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Haust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.