http://www.myspace.com/havendenied

It was the year of 1999 when the Haven Denied project came to existence, by the hand of Ricardo Cotrim (keyboard), Ricardo Caldas (drums), Miguel Loureiro (bass guitar), Jorge Vilela (guitar/ voice). The name Haven Denied intends to convey the idea that music is a haven never eternal, thus denied.
The affinities between the founders allowed it to be established a first way line for the recently formed band: the communication of an ideal through music. During years of search for identification and a conceptual unit for the group, the first compositions, the first concerts have come, in a maturing process.
Getting to the finalization of the project's implementation with a defined identity line, the first setback came with the leaving of the bass guitar player. The rupture originated a redefinition of the work methods. In the meantime, the need to find a new voice was consensual among the remaining members. It ends up happening by the end of 2001, with the ingress of Luís Cerqueira. Already in 2002, a new bass guitar player, Marcos Rangel, joined the project. The band reached a stability platform.
The sedimentation of the group demanded the search for a space of our own which came true through the building of a studio. Still, the history of Haven Denied goes back to the experience of watching another of their elements leave, once again, the bass guitar player. The episode repeats itself a little later with the guitar player Jorge Vilela. In 2003 the vacant position was filled by Henrique Pinto. The next year, Jimmy takes the place of bass player.
With a complete formation, the band started to think about dedicating themselves to the edition of an album. In the meantime, a first hindrance came to this new recently initiated track. Once again, the leaving of an element - Jimmy - forces a hiatus, making it even more urgent the search for a new bass player.
The joining in of the new element, Simão Vilaverde, happened in 2005. And it was precisely by then that the band's life got in a new phase. The recording of the first album began to take shape. During the recording and production of the album the need to integrate a feminine voice - Catarina Caldas - was felt. The two first singles, Misery and Therina, were launched on the Internet in the mid-2006.
The biography of this band has entered a new phase, in 2009. The expected evolution of the band has started with the band´s studio improvement, by buying some new equipment. The group is now recording a new album, their second, which may be released in the second half of 2009. Two new tracks, named 'Ruined Inside' and 'I've never been proud of me' have been launched on the band's site and attracted an impressive number os listeners. Meanwhile, a new element joined Haven Denied: Miguel Silva is the new keyboards and guitar player.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Haven+Denied">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.