Everything in life happens in cycles. The ebb and flow of reality in circular fashion; good times into bad, happy into sad, pleasurable and painful. Coming to grips with pain and overcoming it creates the opportunity for the cycle to begin anew, as pleasure. The Cycle of Pain for Havochate led to the emotional outpouring embodied on their latest effort, and Indecent Media debut. As guitarist and mastermind Freddy Ordine explains, 'Everyone goes through things like these in their life that they can relate to and these things need to be confronted and overcome, which is what weve done with this record.' The process of overcoming required more than just gut-wrenching emotion, it required the building of a family. The revamped lineup now features powerful front man Tim Bouchee's banshee screams and throaty growls as the centerpiece to the more emotionally charged approach. 'We found Timmy in a want ad at a music store and when we brought him in to audition we were just blown away at how well he fit into what we wanted to do. He really uses his voice like an instrument and added a new depth to our sound,' tells Ordine. 'I try to sing what the parts call for. I like to mix it up from a low gut wrenching growling to harmony and operatic melodies to keep the flow of the songs,' explains Bouchee. Havochate's new sound harkens to the grand traditions of metal while forging a new mastery of the genre. 'It's not just the stacking of riffs, it was a real coming together of our ideas as a band,' says Ordine. 'Every riff was a growing up, waking up to the understanding of who we were and how to use the passion inside of us.' It is exactly that coming together, like a family, that helped the band overcome its individual hardships in order to break the Cycle of Pain. 'I actually think that the music came about pretty naturally, everybody brought their special trait and the songs came together,' said Rodriguez. 'We wrote much of the record on acoustic guitars and contributing our individual passions as they came to us,' Ordine explains. 'The origins of the songs in acoustic form gave us more of a drive in the melody and stronger song development.' This gives the record a more natural, organic feel as opposed to a trite building of songs from the preconception of fusing together a series of riffs and patterns. According to Bouchee, 'The vocals take the music itself to the next level because they are the final piece of the puzzle. We created melodies for the songs that are very powerful and hook driven.' The new sound and new family are only the beginning of Havochates new approach. 'We want to challenge the world around us and make a true statement in music and about ourselves as musicians in the new scene,' says Ordine. That statement will mean transcending the stereotypes of the blossoming New Wave of American Heavy Metal and carving their own niche. As Ordine explains, 'We are just going to be ourselves...and this record will give us that opportunity, to go out and play and enjoy the pleasure playing brings all of us.' Ordine understands that better than anyone after surviving a rotating lineup throughout the previous touring with Motorhead/Anthrax, Overkill, Manowar. 'I realized how important it was to have that bond, and with all we've been through to this point, I realize now we have to take the boundary out of what we do and who we are and just let the emotion bleed forth.' Likewise, Rodriguez feels, 'We put out lots of energy and feel we're a live band so we feed off the crowd for what we do. Were looking forward to getting out there and making new friends with people who dig heavy music like we do.' And so the Cycle of Pain spins, refreshing the perception of not only the band, but fans of heavy music. The redemption the members of Havochate feel in the creation of the record is the same refreshed perception the members of the band hope music fans in general will find in the songs and in themselves through the aural experience of the Cycle of Pain. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Havochate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.