Hawnay Troof's story is one of great complexity. Left-field prodigy Vice Cooler, a gifted small-town reject, has redefined underground music with a strong work ethic, charm, and a smooth grace. From making humble tunes in his bedroom to inciting thousands internationally into a craze, Cooler has quickly turned into a well-respected "outsider" artist amongst his peers.

This story starts with one of music's most unlikely debut moments. It was around November 2001 that Cooler began to develop a reputation as an essential party starter, due to an impromptu gig with a friend to raise some much needed cash. This lead to more shows and Cooler was invited to perform guerilla-styled opening sets for bands like Quintron and Miss Pussycat, Lightning Bolt and Gravy Train!!!!. He caught the attention of LA label Retard Disco after his relocation to Oakland, California in 2003. His first album, Get Up: Resolution Love, was released shortly after catching the attention of bands like Deerhoof, Sleater Kinney, The Gossip, Mates Of State, and Numbers, who all took him under their wings as an opener. The exposure of these high profile shows pushed him into a new bracket; getting the crowd pumped night after night. Whether you loved him or hated him, the internet was talking.

After touring throughout 2003 and 2004, 2004 also marked the release of the first Hawnay Troof single, Man On My Back, which displayed a notable growth within the one-man-band's sound. Word of mouth on the internet ensured the record quickly went out of print. The artistic progression became even more noticeable with his second album, 2005's self-produced double album Dollar And Deed. More ambitious than past work, this enormous artistic statement contains over 35 songs. Cooler painted the album with pop, noise, punk, funk, grime, club, and classic rock references. Realising that diversity is a strength, Dollar and Deed made many critics' "albums of the year" list.

The Dollar And Deed Tour (2005-2006) took Vice Cooler on a turbulent 20 month world excursion performing in such unconventional places as Egypt and China. He chronicled this adventure in the self-released book, Dollar And Deed Tour (which sold out in one hour on the internet). Immediately after the tour, Vice Cooler worked tirelessly on his third release, Islands Of Ayle. Executed fragilely, the record pushes further into all realms of pop and avant-garde, with each note taking months of thought, placement, and work. Working with these new-found strengths the album is still recognisable as a Hawnay Troof composition, yet even more melodic and weird. Islands of Ayle puts Vice Cooler forward as not only one of the most underrated and overlooked artists in the American underground, but a true visionary in a sea of insincere music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hawnay+Troof">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.