There have been 3 bands known as Haywire.

1)The first one was formed in 1982 in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, Canada, by Dave Rashed, Paul MacAusland, Marvin Birt, Scott Roberts and Ronnie Switzer. (Additional members replaced Roberts on Drums: Sean Kilbride, Adam Dowling, Ron "Bumble" LeBlanc, and Mac Cole).

Haywire has toured with popular Canadian artists - Kim Mitchell, Lee Aaron, Helix, Honeymoon Suite, etc.

Haywire broke up in the mid-90's thanks, in part, to lackluster support at the executive level of Attic Records.

With the novelty of acts from the 80's, Haywire has come back together, playing smaller venues. And in November of 2006, Haywire received the Music Prince Edward Island Lifetime Achievement Award.

Discography:

Haywire - 1985
Bad Boys - 1986
Don't Just Stand There - 1987
Nuthouse - 1990
Get Off - 1992
Wired - Best of - 1993

2)The second Haywire was formed in 2001 in the East of The Netherlands in a place called Coevorden. In their existance, the band underwent several changes in line-up. However, Erik Berends (drums), Anton Oortmann (bass) and Jeroen Grendelman (Guitar, vocals) were the backbone of the band pretty much from begin to end. In 2005, after a change in line-up, the Haywire-era took a definite start. The young band wrote, after a time of having stood still, serious and sharp rocksongs. Influences from Placebo, Muse and The Cure are clearly interpreted and not copied. The typical vocals, the shrill guitars and the penetrating bass-sound are the main characteristics of the band. Haywire likes to describe their songs as dramatised rock with dark edges.

At the end of 2006 Guitar-player Maarten Righarts was replaced by Marc Hoenderboom, who also happened to own a Korg MS20. With Marc and his Korg the overall sound of the band changed so dramatically that the band decided to change it's name to Pioneers of Love in the summer of 2007. So basically, from that point on Haywire hasn't existed anymore and Pioneers of Love became a fresh, brand new band.

3) beatdown hardcore from Germany. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Haywire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.