Haywood emerged from the remnants of a high school cover band in Villanova, PA, in 1992.  For the next eight years, they crafted steadily more intricate indie rock with dashes of emo, prog, slowcore, country, and loungey stuff here and there. Their sound was smack in the middle of the indie rock sweet spot, smacking at times of Archers of Loaf, Superchunk, Seam, Pavement, The Sea and Cake, and Modest Mouse (if reviews are to be believed).

The original lineup of Jeff Paretchan, Ted Pauly, Ariel Serbin, and Rob Viola remained intact until 1999, when, after the band moved from Philadelphia to Brooklyn, Serbin left, and was replaced by ex-Clock Strikes Thirteen bassist (and current Big Sleep frontman) Danny Barria.  Barria rode out the last year with Haywood until they broke up in 2000.

A handful of 7" single appearances preceded three full-length albums, the third coming after their first breakup.  2007 saw the release of what amounted to a small studio comeback, As Long as There is Track, I Will Not Go Back.

Albums:
Model For a Monument (Mag Wheel, 1998)
Men Called Him Mister (The Self-Starter Foundation, 1999)
We Are Amateurs, You and I (The Self-Starter Foundation, 2001)
As Long As There Is Track, I Will Not Go Back (Two (2) Peters, 2007)

Singles:
Trash Park/Nerf Dreams (Two (2) Peters, 1993)
Devon Lanes, "Parade of Homes" split with Barnabys, Kimbashing, and Lampshade (Two (2) Peters, 1994)
Trophy Case, split with Mariner 9 (Crank! Records, 1996)
Alpenland, "Self-Portrait Vol. 2" split with North of America, Porter Hall, and March/December Swing (Permafrost Records, 1999)

Compilations:
Newbie Zimbo, "Fuel Films Compilation" (Arena Rock Records, 1998)
Mermaid, "Music For Robots, Vol. 1" (Music for Robots, 2005)

Affiliations:
The Red and The Black (Viola, Paretchan)
Cherubino, Sackville, The Joey Sweeney, Mr. Coffeenerves (Viola)
Wendyfix (Pauly)
The Big Sleep, Clock Strikes Thirteen (Barria)



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Haywood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.