There are multiple artists called Hazel:

1) HAZEL was a post-punk band from Portland OR featuring Jody Bleyle (drums, vocals), Peter Krebs (guitar, vocals), Brady Smith (bass), and Fred Nemo (dancer). They released several singles/eps on various independent labels and 2 albums on Sub Pop from the early to mid '90s before breaking up. Jody Bleyle was also in Team Dresch. Pete now releases music under Pete Krebs and the Gossamer Wings. The vocal interplay between Krebs and Bleyle set Hazel apart from the other Northwestern bands of the time, adding a slightly more textured feel to their lovely guitar crunch. Not entirely averse to pop melodies, Hazel nevertheless balanced these with some delightful noise-making and melancholic moping. In their heyday Hazel used to tour with other local Portland bands Pond, Crackerbash, Sprinkler and Heatmiser which featured early Elliott Smith.

2) HAZEL was formed in 2003 by a Polish singer and songwriter - Joan Wisniewka /aka Hazel/. She composes, produces, programmes and performes her songs as well as she writes lyrics, plays guitar and piano/keyboards.
Her self-titled “Beauty Loves Aggression” CD is a demo recorded at her home studio in Warsaw, Poland. So far no official album has been released, yet. However Hazel is always open and eager to work with any label willing to promote and release her music.
Many bands and artists such as: Nine Inch Nails, Jeff Buckley, Graeme Revell, Marilyn Manson, Tool, A perfect Circle, Hole, Jane Siberry, Crash Test Dummies have contributed to the sound and form of Hazel’s music and have been a great source of inspiration for many years.

3) This Hazel started making music on the C64 around 1989. Then changed to the Amiga and continued with composing computer/demo music. In 1992 he was part of a band called “Psycho Trance” which had a few gigs before breaking up. The style of music has changed a lot since the past and now it varies from Ambient/Lounge to Trance/Goa.
Today he is most known as a C64 remixer at http://remix.kwed.org . He has released a few albums in the years which can be downloaded for free at http://www.soundofhazel.com

4) Hazel is a Mexican urban rock band.

5) Hazel is also the name of a young woman who plays banjo and recorded a 13-track album featuring arrangements of her songs that also include guitar, accordion, cello and other instruments. hazelyes.com

6) Hazel is a Turkish rapper based in İstanbul. She combines boom bap and trap with both harsh and blues vocals at the same time. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hazel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.