Download our EP. Buy Our Debut Album. Get A Shirt, or a Patch. 
https://hazzerdthrash.bandcamp.com/merch

Hazzerd was formed by Drummer/Vocalist Dylan W. and Guitarist Brendan M. in August of 2012 in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. The two muscians jammed together a few times before realizing they had something good going. They agreed to join up and form an 80's styled thrash metal band closely following the roots of thrash legends such as Megadeth, Anthrax, Overkill, and Metallica. they decided on Forsaken as the band name at that time. Then they found Kerry P. on a local guitarist add on Kijiji. Kerry was doing guitar lessons out of Calgary, actually Kerry and Brendan jammed once before, prior to even thinking about Hazzerd. Kerry came and jammed and they knew he was the right fit for the lead guitar position. in November 2012 Brendan and Dylan had already written their first and possibley most popular song "BTK" standing for Bind, Torture, Kill. A song about a serial killer named Dennis Radder. All they needed now was a vocalist and a bass player. 

In late November 2012 Dylan had found their first lead vocalist on the same site they found Kerry on. Cole M. Joined Hazzerd in December of 2012 followed closely by bassist Aarom M.

Cole thought the name Forsaken was over used now a days. And the band was in agreement, Cole suggested the name Hazard X and they got to the name "Hazzerd" with two Z's by the end of the jam. The band was set to do some good things in the year 2013. They recorded their first song "BTK" in MCC Studios in Calgary AB. Released in January 2013. BTK became the talk over the underground scene for a few days. They played their first show on January 26th 2013 at The New Black. and placed second in the battle of the bands. by this time Aaron M had left the band and had been replaced by Jake W. 

In Febuary 2013 Cole M left Hazzerd due to throat and vocal complications. 

After months of looking for a lead vocalist, In August of 2013 Dylan decided he was just going to step up and sing for the band while playing the drums at the same time. throughout the next few months of 2013 Hazzerd played several gigs at well known bars to a packed house almost every show. including releasing their single "Secret Society" in December. Entering the new year of 2014 Hazzerd decided they were going to record a 5 song EP in the summer, including their 2 previously released singles. the EP would include 
1. Deal With The Devil
2. Secret Society
3. May Death Be Your End
4. No Way Out
5. BTK 

In April of 2014 they got their first artwork done for the EP by TOO MANY SKULLS (Raf The Might) featuring the bands macscot, torturing a man as hes bound to a chair.

June 2014 Hazzerd was confirmed to play 2 of Alberta's biggest metal festivals "Farmageddon Open Air" (June 12th) & "Loud As Hell Metal Festival" (August 30th) Unfortunately in July Jake W departed Hazzerd leaving Kerry, Brendan & Dylan to search for a bassist beofore their shows and studio time in August. They got friend and Bassist Thomas R to join Hazzerd for live shows. They entered the studio to record what was to become their first EP (With Brendan recording the Bass) "Victimize The Innocent" a concept of the innocent people in todays society being the victim no matter what the cause, Religious warfare, a deal made with the wrong character, all out nuclear war, and the fantasies of a sick serial killer. 

Hazzerd released the EP in September 2014. it received good reviews and praise from fans alike. Hazzerd played a sold out show on September 19th at Lord Nelsons Bar in Calgary AB for their EP, being confirmed at that show to play with Edmonton thrash bands Striker and Villainizer in November at Dickens Pub. and also being put onto the Unleash The Archers show in late November aswell. 

Unfortunatley Kerry P & Thomas R both left the band in December due to personal reasons. Agian leaving Brendan and Dylan to rebuild. 

In March 2015 Hazzerd recruited their youngest member Toryin "Junior" Schadlich at 18 years old he fit the lead position just right. They then entered MCC stuidos once again (With out a bass player) to record their newest Single "Trapped In Purgatory" which you can find/download as a bonus song in the Media tab! Hazzerd were unable to play shows for quite some time due to having no bass player.

After months of searching and failing, they finally found long time friend and former bassist Aaron M wanting to rejoin Hazzerd. They jammed a few times before they made the decision to let Aaron come back into the band. In August 2015 Hazzerd had found their final piece to the puzzle completing the "New" line up. 

Hazzerd played their first show back after a year hiatus on November 27th 2015 at The Distortion Live Music Venue, getting a great crowd repsonse and fans saying they're back.

In January 2017 Hazzerd parted ways with Aaron M. and was replaced by David S. and are back stronger, and better than ever!

We are Hazzerd
Dylan Westendorp (Drums/Vocals)
Brendan Malycky (Guitars)
Toryin Schadlich (Guitars)
David Sprague (Bass)

Current Location
Calgary, Alberta <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HAZZERD">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.