Ever since the founder and only remaining original member Andreas Ljung put together the first Headsic line-up in 2009 the vision has stayed intact: To blend the intensity of melodic death metal with heavy infectious grooves, dynamic arrangements and lyrics that reflect something real and often personal. From revealing childhood trauma in the live favourite “Below Ground” (TRIALS, 2012) to the self empowering strength builder “In The Blood” (The Crowning, 2016) there is authenticity. Riff heavy songs with screaming vocals personalized by the lyrical content of a frontman who is not afraid to spill his guts. This is what turns crowds in to moshpits.
Headsic’s latest release the 2019 LP LAST LIGHT... is a testament of a band that are as much “The Gothenburg Sound” as they are diverse. Songs like “The Fault And The Failure” and “Monolith” gives a harsh look into the frontman’s own questionable self worth and meaning but it also shows a will and perseverance that have kept the band going for over ten years. LAST LIGHT... may be the end of a decade but it can also be a beginning of something great. Headsic have all the attributes you would expect from a Swedish metal act but there is more to it if you’re willing to dig deeper. The songs have a nice punch to them that gives them the proper impact. The album has a thrash feel to it as well that leads it to have some other influences other than simply melodic death metal. Overall, Last Light... is a very good recording. - Adam McAuley, Heavy Music Headquarters
Headsic from Gothenburg are talented moshpit agitators when they set their mind to it: when the opening song ”Haunts you forever” on this full-length debut starts, you sstart preparing for a violent moment under the direction of this quartet. The guys have a great feel for the kind of immersive death thrash riffs that turns an audience into a full blown riot. - Sebastian Zweiniger, Sweden Rock Magazine <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HeadSic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.