Breaking down beats seems as natural to HEAD LIKE A KITE's Dave Einmo as breaking down genre barriers. On Dreams Suspend Night, his third release and debut with Roll Call Records, Einmo wields a trident of musical force to create a “A true genre-twisted party album that appropriately captures the sounds of an eclectic America” - URB

Einmo’s recording approach begins with challenging pop songwriting, followed by his own basic tracking with live instruments. Foundation in place, Einmo transforms into a manic-producer-DJ, chopping, slicing and sampling his own instrumental tracks then peppering the recordings with guests. Dreams Suspend Night features multiple musicians and vocalists including Asya of Smoosh, Tilson of the Saturday Nights, Boom Bip (Neon Neon), Her Space Holiday, and members of The Long Winters and Swervedriver. Their influence injects the record with variable components of hip hop, pop, indie rock, and electronica. Jutting blip-beats dance around meaty analog synths, mischievous guitars, and vocal hooks.

Knowing how it was created, a listen through Dreams Suspend Night invokes images of The Wizard of Oz – one man in a control booth turning knobs to create something that feels much larger. Unlike the film, when Einmo steps out of the booth and onto the stage, he is just as magical. Tangled up in a trademark red and black boa, commanding an array of sequencers, guitars and keyboards, Dave, a live drummer and special guests turn even the biggest outdoor festivals into underground dance parties.

Released independently by Head Like A Kite in May, Dreams Suspend Night was re-mastered by Dave Cooley (Dangermouse, Silversun Pickups, Prefuse 73) and includes a new single, “Diamond Paint” for the Roll Call Records October re-release. The record has already hit #1 at KEXP and HLAK has garnered praise from the Los Angeles Times to the London Times, while touring from his hometown Seattle to Guam to Japan.

“The 3rd album from Seattle’s Dave Einmo is another first-rate set of expansive electro-rock in the spirt of Beck’s eclectic party starter Odelay, combining hip hop, rock, electronics, prog-rock, funk, pop and more, with help from touring drummer Trent Moorman and an impressive guest lineup.” – KEXP, Seattle, WA <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Head+Like+A+Kite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.