10 bands called Headshot: German, USA (2), Netherlands, UK, Australian, Belgium, Bulgarian, Greece and Poland


HEADSHOT (GERMANY) / Originated in 1993
Headshot is a Thrash Metal-Band from Braunschweig/Germany.

The band was founded in 1993 by Olaf Danneberg (guitar), Steffen Keuchel (bass) and Till Hartmann (drums). Andi Bruer joined the band after a short time and became singer. Their debut "Brain At Risk" is released in 1995. Due to vocational stuff, it lasted three years until the next album "Emotional Overload" is released. Before releasing the third album "Diseased" in 2003, the band founded the own label "Wreckage Crew".

1995 - Brain At Risk
1998 - Emotional Overload
2003 - Diseased
2008 - As Above, So Below
2011 - Synchronicity


HEADSHOT (NETHERLANDS) / Originated in 2004
Dutch alternative metal band which no longer exists. Political lyrics and hardcore style performance were the style of the Dutch version of Headshot. Releases:

2005 - Against Our World (6 track demo / Free download on last.fm)
2006 - Short Circuit (9 track album / Free download on last.fm)


HEADSHOT (BULGARIA) 
Bulgarian hardcore band which no longer exists. Some of the members formed the double-vox hardcore band Missing the Point.


HEADSHOT (AUSTRALIA)
Note also, that a band from Perth, Western Australia shared the same name. Headshot (Australia) were a lethal live band and released 2 EPs (Rooms Within Rooms and 451) as well as being featured on a live compilation with their Sic Squared labelmates Heavy Weight Champ and Subtruck. Their tight and powerful politically themed music brought to mind bands such as Rage Against the Machine and Meshuggah, and left a mark on many a local fan.


HEADSHOT (ENGLAND)
Note also, there is a band from Somerton, England - a Heavy Metal/Classic Rock group of 5, originally at school together at Huish Episcopi.  At the current time, they have only played a few gigs, and only recorded one song - but looking to release an album sometime soon.


HEADSHOT (UNITED STATES)
1) Hardcore band from Long Island, in the vein of Bulldoze, Irate, Hatebreed. They have released a 4 song demo.

2) Hardcore punk/thrash band from northwest Indiana. Originated 2005-2006. They released a six song demo in the summer of 2007. 


HEADSHOT (BELGIUM)
New H8000 hardcore band in the vein of Full Blown Chaos, Terror,...
www.myspace.com/headshoth8000


HEADSHOT (GREECE/HELLAS)
Thrash Metal Band from Athens


HEADSHOT (POLAND)
A southern rock/metal band from a south-west city of Poland, Boleslawiec. The realeased one demo in 2009. [url=www.myspace.com/headshotpl[/url]  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Headshot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.