There are several artists with the name Headhunter:

1. Dubstep producer and DJ Antony Williams from Bristol, UK.
2. German power / thrash metal band 
3. Hardcore / punk band from Bandung, Indonesia
4. A Traditional Heavy Metal band  from Switzerland

1. Headhunter is the dubstep producer Antony Williams from Bristol, UK. Progressing from the deep, dark sound from dubstep pre-2008 (2007 EP 'Initiate'), his album 'Nomad', released in September 2008, had a more minimal techno feel and can been described as 'dubtech'. He now mainly releases a more dancefloor-friendly juke-inspired dubstep sound under the name Addison Groove.

2.   Headhunter is a German Power / Thrash Metal band. When Schmier was kicked out of Destruction  in 1989 he found himself in a new band called Headhunter. The band features Schmuddel (Talon) doing guitar work and backing vocals and Jörg Michael (Stratovarius, Saxon, Running Wild, Grave Digger, Rage, Mekong Delta) on the drums.
The trio would make three albums in the nineties. First was 'Parody of Life' in 1990. After touring they recorded 'A Bizarre Gardening Accident' in 1992.
The last album they would make in the nineties was 'Rebirth' in 1992.
The group would disappear and Schmier soon rejoin Destruction.
After 14 years the group reunited and recored 'Parasite of Society' in 2008.

3.   Headhunter is a Hardcore/punk band from Bandung, Indonesia. Roma (Ex–Sherasupersweet) and Dika (Tragedi, Blind to see, Alice, Ex-Restrain) try to form a group that we think will never happen, but we actually did it. Influence by Converge, Refused, Shai hulud, Black Flag, and Minor Threat.
Bandung – Brutal Noise Hardcore HEADHUNTER brings scratchy voice and raw guitar sound, take music into a new level. Stressed and depressed when we decide to recorded our songs. We spent 6 hours in funhouse recording studio we finally make it to three songs with engineer, Mr. Dimz (Tragedi & Outright)
The two-pieces organized almost everything, Dika take the lower string on Guitar and bass in to B, and he blast the drum out of his mind. Roma grab the mic and make a critical lyrics and brutal voice! We’ve added elements from hardcore, punk, to southern rock and crust core. “We do the heavy stuff, but we let other types of music drip in”
As the results, here’s the Omnivora - Demo 2008.

4. Headhunter released one self-titled album in 1985.

Last known line-up:

Peter McTanner - Vocals (Bloody Six, Krokus)
Manny Maurer - Guitars (Krokus, Killer (Che), Ain't Dead Yet)
Beat ``Tiger`` Kofmehl - Bass (Killer (Che))
Greg Bleuel - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Headhunter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.