Continuously evolving metal act, Heart Impaled. First started by as an entirely electronic project created for the purpose of putting music to PC games in 2001. Around 2003-2004 a heavy emphasis on guitars, sampling and distortion was added to achieve a heavier tone. 2005, onward live instrumentation and the crossover into the metal genre proceeded.

The purpose: Heart Impaled is to possibly inspire the creation of something beyond just music itself. Books, Games, Animation. Like a plugging into a sound of hard and heavy music to inspire new media. Not just background music, but completely influenced by the use of hard music to blur the lines between the two and altogether create this unique genre that takes metal to this next generation of the metal fans who didn't exactly grow up reading just about dragons and superhero comic books, but playing video games, watching movies, animation and listening to metal.

I was mostly into all types of metal and symphonic music at the time and those were my main influences. To this day Metal and video game music inspires my sound. Even though, I wanted to push the boundries of my sound to a much heavier tone I was very limited financially and my only means were to create tracks through my computer at the time. I picked up the guitar a year later and taught myself how to play. 

Around 2005 I met several people who were interested and we attempted to form a band as I wanted to push this name - 'Heart Impaled' onto a stage. Unfortunately it was really difficult to get people to gel together when there were too many conflicts between the members and their minds were somewhere else. It fell apart rather quick and I ended up wasting a whole lot of time. Demos became incoherent and my patience was wearing thin. 

I want back to producing and finally started to find my aggression and tone that I was aiming for. Somewhere between the metal, but not exactly like all the death metal clones. Something that stands out. 

Heart Impaled 2004 - 15,000+ Free downloads on music.download.com.

Never completed in 2004, The Loveless Creation was a project that was dropped due to the unsatisfaction with the synthetic tone of the album. Produced and recorded over a crossover transitional period from Video Game Music to Heavy Metal it grabbed the attention of many listeners on music.download.com. Before the inclusion of guitars everything was completely synthetic and only used for the purpose of providing a soundtrack to video games. 

Originally recorded with direct input of a guitar through a sound card and sequencers, the cold harsh tone left so much more to be desired. Popular songs such as "Crying Soul" and "While Hate Decays" kept the project at a top spot on the website for over 5 years until it eventually went down. In an attempt to reshape the sound with full use of guitars and drums along with the synthesizers, they were replaced with live instrumentation and took on a whole different approach. This approach became what the original archetype had been concieved of. Loud, fast guitars, complex songwriting and a heavy guitar tone which was initially unachievable. 

To recreate what initally was done, "The Ghost Effect" was the official leap into the metal genre. And also the complete package of lyrics and live instruments.

CD-0, which had very little copies available sold out in the local area by selling it by hand. Burnt discs onto CDRs and released in March 2008 over iTunes, it was the first offical Heart Impaled release which was considered the first of it's kind.

Now 2010, the album from 2004 will be available over the net for those that can appreciate the cold harsh synthetic sound of what Heart Impaled was. 

The album is a machine. It's a loveless, emotionless creation. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heart+Impaled">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.