There are two artists with the name Heartthrob. 

1. An American live techno act, DJ and music producer.
2. An American comedian.

1. Jesse Siminski, aka Heartthrob, was born in 1976 in Northern Michigan. He discovered dance music through a musician father and relative who owned a record store. Early Prince, Kraftwerk's 'Tour de France' and Laid Back's 'White Horse' were three of Jesse's childhood favorites. As a teen in the early nineties, he discovered the Midwest Rave scene, traveling to Chicago, Detroit, Minneapolis and Milwaukee to hear the unique sounds of the area. This is where he first heard and connected with the music of Richie Hawtin, Drop Bass Network and Communique Records-pioneer of minimal acid and techno. Their dynamic and challenging aesthetic had an impact. Shortly after Jesse became determined to make his own music and started collecting gear and recors. In 1999 Jesse moved to New York City, New York, United States where he continued to experiment with music as well as contemporary art. New York's small minimal scene brought him to Magda and Troy Pierce, who would become friends and sources of inspiration (musical and otherwise). Shortly after Richie Hawtin moved into the neighborhood and a friendship with the Minus family was established. The first public exposure of his music was during Magda's seminal dj set at Mutek 2003.

Jesse uses his productions to explore the intersection where tradition and innovation cross as much as aesthetics and concepts. Where the ideal is function and entertainment as well as experimentation and emotion.

Jesse has releases and remixes (past and forthcoming) on Minus, Underline, Contexterrior, Alphahouse, UnFoundsound, Mos Ferry, Get Physical, Wagon Repair, Tora Tora Tora, Phonocult, Esperanza and Stock 5 amongst others. He has been hosted to play at venues such as, Mutek New York City, Fabric (London) Popkomm at Watergate (Berlin), Volt (Amsterdam) and Batofar (Paris).

Jesse now lives in Paris and is working full-time on music production and live performance. 

2. Rob Anderson, aka Heartthrob, was born on September 20, 1987 and is based in Los Angeles, California. He writes and produces digital shorts for his Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube channels. He is most known for his GAY SCIENCE series in which queer stereotypes are proven true with fake science. He released the single Nothing For You in May 2022. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heartthrob">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.