There is more than one artist with this name
1) Heat is a band from Berlin, Germany, playing the 70's psychedelic progressive style hard rock. http://heatberlin.bandcamp.com/
They released their first  album "Old Sparky" in 28 September 2012
members:
Drums: Marcus Töpfer
Guitar: Ingo Börner
Guitar: Marco Rischer
Voices: Patrick Fülling
Bass: Richard Behrens 



2) Heat, a Christian Rap ensemble.
3) Heat, also a Christian band (but not Rap).  
4) HEAT is an indie rock band in the US, formed in 2007 with the band members of Izumi on vocals, L on lead guitar, Chaos on second guitar, Kaze on bass, and Rai on the drums. They are signed on the Black Flame Production record label. It was on 2007.7.4 that they released their first mini album, Born to Be Burn.
5) Heat were a short lived dance band that released a single 7" on Gravity Records.
6) Heat was an acid techno trio fromed by Klaus Löschner (AR006351), Markus Löhr (Hubert Kah) and Robert Görl (Deutsch Amerikanische Freundschaft).
7) Solo project by Monica Seksich, born in 1993, that explores the fundamental subject of the relationship between the feminine and the sacred and the rediscovery of the deep inner energies that spring from the mystery of femininity.
Under Heat there was also three different american rapper, a rap group, a progressive trance act, a synth-pop band, a hardcore/gabber artist, a funk/soul trio from the early 80s, a garage house act, a dutch alternative rock band, an emo rock band, and two disco group, each released one single around in 1979.
8) In November of 1979, respected saxophonist and arranger Tom Saviano as­sembled a group of outstanding musicians and vocalists to create a jazz infused R&B/Pop debut album under the band name HEAT. The album contained eight compositions that Saviano co-wrote, co-produced, arranged and performed. With only its simple, stark black album cover with the red flame HEAT logo design across the top, listeners who didn’t bother to read the liner notes had no idea of the talent involved or who masterminded putting together this horn laden groove-fest.

A 2nd HEAT album titled STILL WAITING was released in 1981 featuring Jean Marie-Arnold & Ed Whiting on vocals. The release was complicated by behind the scenes legal issues combined with record company politics that caused a leak in the fuel tanks at lift off. This resulted in no PR or music video being produced at a point when the music industry was on the precipice of an evolution; a new breakout music channel that was about to change the playing field called MTV. Bands who hadn’t established a strong visual image and presence were suddenly overlooked. And just like that, HEAT faded into the sunset… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.