Heather Victoria Gavin was born in 1989 in Fayetteville, North Carolina. She moved to Wilson, North Carolina in 1998. Heather started singing early on in her life at the age of six. In 1996, she was in the Little Miss Fayetteville State Pageant where she sang for the first time in front of a large crowd. It was then that she and her family both realized that she may have an incredible gift that she should share with others. Heather comes from a family of musicians. Her mother sang for many years in the band (Ultrasonic) that toured nationally in the late 1980's, and also starred in many musicals hosted at Faytteville's local theatre. "Heather was a theatre baby," her mother stated. Her father and grandfather were both great saxophonists; her grandfather is deceased and her father still plays occasionally. 

Heather Victoria sang with choir for seven years while in grade school, and is continuing to sing presently at the college level. She is a student at North Carolina Central University majoring in Music Industry with a minor in Business. She is due to graduate in December of 2011. She began recording in December of 2008 with James 'Manifest' Wiggins out of Rocky Mount, N.C. and is very grateful for everything he has done for her as far as helping her start her career. Heather has most recently been working in the studio with the well-known Mr. 9th Wonder and Eric Jones. "I hope to bring a new sound to this industry, and inspire young women to chase their dreams. Not only do I aspire to be a singer and entertainer, but also an ambassador and example for others. My style of music can be described as a RAW R&B. My music is something that I feel is currently missing in the game. It's down to earth music, the beats are incredible, my lyrics are always about things and situations that people can relate to, and its a sound that everyone can rock to. I'll be 20 this year, I'm young and fit for this industry.

 ''I write, arrange, and understand MUSIC. Music is what I love and I want to share my gift with millions." -Heather Victoria

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heather+Victoria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.