Heaven Rain was founded in the summer of 2006 in Banja Luka, capitol of Republic of Srpska, Bosnia, by keyboardist Goran Bastinac. The idea was to create original music in the progressive metal genre, combined with influences from the Finnish school of power metal. Some of the band’s chief influences are bands such as Kamelot, Sonata Arctica, Nightwish and Ayreon.

After writing and arranging the initial ideas that would later become the framework for the debut album, Baštinac linked up with a fellow student at the Academy of Arts he studies at in Banja Luka, guitarist Igor Paspalj. Later, singer Božidar Šević became the vocalist of the group. The line-up is finally completed in early 2008, turning Heaven Rain into a live band instead of a studio project with the addition of the rhythm section – Bojan Jokšić on bass and Nebojša Lakić on drums. Shortly after signing a deal with Dutch record company Moonwolf Records, Heaven Rain entered the studio to begin recording their debut album. The album, entitled Far and Forever, was released on July 4, 2008. and is available digitally (7Digital, iTunes, Amazon, TradeBit…) and in physical CD form (CDBaby, CDConnection, Moonwolf’s officials site and distributors).

The Metal Observer called the album "The newest trump of our metal scene" and Butcherian Vibe Magazine wrote "Heaven Rain is easily the pick of the Melodic Metal releases this year and I rate it as highly as Eden’s Curse ’Second Coming’. That, my Melodic brothers and sisters, is praise indeed."

The band has been working, in the meantime, on presenting the material in a live setting, and debuted as a live act at the Neofest in Banja Luka on Jun 21, 2008, traveling later in the year to play a show in the Serbian capital of Belgrade.

After a few line-up changes, Heaven Rain founded a new lead vocalist, Miona Graorac, and a guitar player Igor Dragelj. Several live shows followed. Soon after, “Evolution” EP was recorded which includes two new songs, “Dreamless” and “My Only One”, and a cover version of the song “Galebovi” (originally recorded by the cult Yugoslavian band Bolero back in the 80′s).

Brand new Heaven Rain album “Second Sun” was recorded during October/December 2011. at the Chainroom studio, Serbia. It contains 10 new songs, and a bonus cover song “Vejte Snegovi”, an 80′s pop classic by famous Yugoslavian band Zana. Soon after, the band inked a deal with a German distro-label MusicBuyMail and the album hit the stores on June 1st, 2012.

More info can be found at http://www.heavenrainband.com.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heaven+Rain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.