Heaven and Hell is a music collaboration featuring current Black Sabbath members Tony Iommi and Geezer Butler along with former members Ronnie James Dio and Vinny Appice. Founding member Iommi decided to name the group Heaven and Hell as the original lineup of Black Sabbath (featuring Butler, Iommi, Bill Ward and Ozzy Osbourne) is still active but on hiatus. [Please note: Tony Iommi owns all rights to the name "Black Sabbath" and as such can do with it as he sees fit. Heaven and Hell came into existence due to the band not wanting to play songs such as Iron Man and Paranoid, which would be expected of them if they toured as Black Sabbath. It has nothing to do with Ozzy Osbourne saying they couldn't use the Sabbath name.] Ward was originally part of the Heaven and Hell line-up, but it was announced on the fan-run Black Sabbath website that he was standing aside for Appice.

The possibility of a reunion of the lineup which created the Black Sabbath album Heaven and Hell in 1980 was first announced on the Spanish site Rafabasa on September 28, 2006; however with Appice in place of Ward the line-up is now that which recorded the 1981 album Mob Rules. Dio had previously announced that he and Iommi had written a new track for a proposed Black Sabbath box set consisting of music from the two periods in which he was present in the band. This set, Black Sabbath: The Dio Years, is a single-CD release featuring three new tracks, 'Shadow Of The Wind', 'The Devil Cries' and 'Ear In The Wall'.

The reunion was officially confirmed by an announcement on Tony Iommi's official website.

None of the new tracks feature keyboards but Scott Warren of Dio is the project's touring keyboardist.

The group did a world tour in 2007, and released a live CD/DVD recorded in New York called Live At Radio City Music Hall

Heaven and Hell's first full-length studio album is called The Devil You Know and was released by Rhino on April 28, 2009. The band embark on another world tour beginning in May 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Heaven+And+Hell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.