Heavy Metal Perse (Heavy Metal Arse in Finnish) was founded in Kajaani, Finland in May 2000 by guitarist Juha Leikkainen, drummer Heikki Romppainen and singer-guitarist Matias Palm. The intention was to create world's first True Metal band who sing in Finnish language. 

The first HMP demo CD called "Legenda Taikamiekasta" was released in April of the following year and soon after that the band found a bass player in form of Harri Leinonen. Later the poor-quality demo tracks ended up in the p2p networks and made the band known also outside their hometown. 

The second demo CD titled "...Ja Ylitse Vihaisen Meren" was unleashed in September 2002 trebling the sales of the previous record.

In October of 2003 HMP stepped in the Jive studio in Helsinki and recorded a third (and this time the last) version of "Legenda Taikamiekasta" that was due to come out on a 2CD metal compilation from a Finnish metal media might Imperiumi.net. However, a couple of months later it turned out that the record company that was responsible for releasing the intended Imperiumi compilation, was split, and this left the newly recorded song without a publisher. Therefore the single was released as a split-CDS (w/ Guardians of Mankind) by Imperiumi at Helsinki's famous Tuska Festival in July 2004 and was received very well among the metal fans. The both title tracks aired on the national Finnish radio network a few times. 

In 2005 HMP released their next MCD called "Tervemenoa Tuonelaan!". Just like the previous single it did well and the band toured around Finland the following year and also did their first show abroad in Tallinn, Estonia. The very same year, 2006, the MCD opener "Urho" was also released on a special 2CD compilation "Rautakanki II" that did favour for the radio show with the same title (R.I.P.).

During 2006-2007 the band recorded 12 tracks for their upcoming debut album. Finally 11 songs made it onto the record and the album was released by Dethrone Music on January 16th, 2008. After its first sales week HMP's debut album "Eripura" hit the official Finnish album chart at position #38. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heavy+Metal+Perse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.