HEBEPHRENIC are a rock/metal band that mixes raw power and atmospheric melody in equal parts, they merge influences from a wide span of genres and create something that is distinctly their own.

HEBEPHRENIC were formed in the summer of 2002. After developing a strong local following which led to several packed local shows, the band began to travel further afield and have taken their unique brand of metal up and down the country, sharing stages with bands ranging from Cthonic, Devil Sold his Soul, Beyond All Reason, British Sea Power, to, bizarrely, Liberty X!

HEBEPHRENIC'S sound is hard to pinpoint, falling somewhere between the band's myriad of influences: metal, hardcore, electro, indie and industrial. When asked about their influences, HEBEPHRENIC respond with a number of varied bands from American Head Charge to Rammstein, Aphex Twin to The Dresden Dolls and Dry Kill Logic to Yeah Yeah Yeahs.

Their debut album was recorded in just seven days and produced by John Webb. The band's follow-up EP, 'Disillusion Through Compromise' was recorded in four days at The Lizard Lounge and sold out quickly in a limited run, showcasing the band's maturing sound. 
The band now work from their own private studio and their first self produced EP 'Clear Skies' showed how much further Hebephrenic were going to go with their music.
They are now concentrating on touring and also producing the much anticipated follow up to Clear Skies
----------


MUSIC REVIEWS


"Splattering liberal doses of rock-horror atmospherics amongst their irreverant catchy tunes, Hebephrenic succeed in delivering an instant punch of twisted rawness.... an entertaining blast of energised rock"

Zero Tolerance magazine


"Heavy bass and powering guitars race along with the thunderous drums beats as the vicious vocals get you jumping out your seat within the first minute. Hebephrenic combine soaring riffs with speedy drums beats giving them a sound mixed with tiny parts of so many other bands coming out the other end....a sound they can call their own."

Rockbeast


"This time it’s the turn of Hebephrenic to assault my aural canals.....and what an assault. If I had to define the style i would say Cramps-esque, Napalm Death-y, Cannibal Corpse like, Metal-punk-rock thingy. Yup. That’s an awful lot of things. But it is all of them. The music is metal as fuck, but the lyrics....ah, the lyrics....they really are like the Cramps meets Cannibal Corpse. Songs about (in no particular order) sex, death, more sex, graveyards, sluts, s&m...yeah, its sick, but in a cool as fuck way. And given that it is self funded, and was produced in a mere 7 days at 'Living Room Hell' studios, the album sounds great. It is a clear as can be expected, and each instrument is clean and distinct, from the grinding guitars to the gruff and raw vocals. When you see it in your local record emporium, buy it! 4/5

Learned Robb's pit of Doom (Album review)


LIVE REVIEWS


"Returning once again to the cellar bar and finding manic moshing back in progress, this times to the strains of extremely heavy Hebephrenic, another band who obviously enjoy their work. A 5-piece with a female bassist and drummer, their music has a wide range of metal-based influences and it was good to see yet another band putting on an enthusiastic show. Their vocalist Nick McMullen spends a lot of time amongst the manic audience and some of the time he can be found somewhat dangerously sitting in the middle of the floor as all erupts around him. Brave man. "

Steve Dean, Stokesound


"Hebephrenic are a high powered band but instead of a hardcore metal front, they use rhythm and melody to great effect. Yes, metal kids, there’s a tune in there. I know it’s scary and maybe it doesn’t make you feel as macho, but it’s what good music has. Their tracks have atmosphere and use the metal genre more like a vehicle than a style to deliver a wide ranging sound. Strong vocals from front man Nick were supported by a good level, by which I mean a proportionate amount, of drum and guitar. Hebephrenic have their own recipe for music which works and made this gig more than just a metal free-for-all."

Sleepwalkers Magazine


MORE COMING SOON!



http://www.hebephrenic.co.uk


or

Eclectic electronic tone salads and broken pop songs. This is the solo electronic music of Scott Carr. FORMED IN 1990 in the United States of America.....

http://www.tapehissrecordings.com - Label
http://myspace.com/tapehissrecordings - MySpace
http://www.tapegerm.com/jamroom/bands/1 - Music at Tapegerm
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hebephrenic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.