There are multiple bands with the name HEBRON. 

From the deepest, darkest corners of the human psyche, the hiding place of our fears, desires, and nightmares, comes the hauntingly aggressive sounds of Wisconsin’s HEBRON. Their music is the sound of the often-suppressed madness in all of us; fighting, screaming, and clawing at our souls in hopes of liberation. For many of us, these types of experiences are ignored, but for fans of Hebron and other like-minded death metal enthusiasts, in these dark places lies an endless source of inspiration and creativity. Boasting jaw-dropping guitar acrobatics, subterranean vocal shrieks, and a shockingly violent assault on the drums, HEBRON is a death metal tour de force, and the fans can’t seem to get enough. Their first full-length album, “Spill the Blood of the Innocent” was unleashed on fans only a year ago, and demand for more HEBRON music was instantaneous. In response to the overwhelming fan support, the five members of HEBRON went right back to the drawing board to begin work on a five song EP that will be released at the end of 2007. In addition to being seasoned studio musicians, HEBRON is no stranger to the road. Their “Midwest Massacre” tour, which began in February, sent them through a variety of venues in the Midwest, and plans for future touring are currently in the works. They have also shared the stage with a long list of nationally touring artists such as Mushroomhead, Destruction, As I lay Dying, In Flames, Machinehead, Cannibal Corpse, Flaw, Mark Rizzo(of Soul Fly), and Gwar, and they have played a variety of other prestigious gigs such as “The Sound Underground” and the Milwaukee Metalfest as well as achieving top honors in local “battle of the band” competitions and features in local music magazines. Where plans for the future are concerned, HEBRON will continue the constant search for new ways to showcase their sound to the public. HEBRON is working close with local promotion groups and working hard to play more venues and reach more fans. For more information on the latest gigs, merchandise, music, and other news, be sure to check out www.myspace.com/hebron.


From England comes another HEBRON, featuring Helen Shapiro, Chrissy Rodgers and Simon Elman, present their Biblical Messianic songs in a variety of styles, including Folk, Jazz, Blues, Bluegrass and Hebraic. With their close vocal harmonies and acoustic instruments (bass, guitars, ukuleles and banjo), Hebron’s music will, no doubt, have broad appeal. In these 16 tracks, most of them original, Hebron endeavours to declare a simple and clear Gospel message so needed today. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hebron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.