The beginnings of Hedenskrig can, theoretically, go back to the 1999, when Marcelo Garrido and Felipe Martines made contact with Daniel Baraona and they began to play covers of bands like Burzum, Satyricon and the old Moonspell with the name of “Forsaken at the Death Time”, band of a monotonous and too simple Death-thrash. In those times the alignment was Felipe in guitar, Marcelo in drums and Daniel in bass and vocals. The band dissolved in 2001 for lack of substance.
 
At principles of the 2003, in a meeting of friends, Marcelo and Daniel decides to re-found the group, inspired by the melancholic Doom that both listened in those days, besides the influence of a feminine vocalist who also impelled to lot the project. Felipe united forces again with his old comrades and they began this way the search of a drummer and bassist. After many problems, and basically for natural directions of the composing, much more aggressive and more brutal that one can wait for a band doom, we opts to follow our natural direction, besides excluding the female vocalist, the tecladist, the bassist and the session drummer. Again we were in a break and in the alternative if to continue or not with our project.
 
2003
The three original members opted to continue with the band, even without name, to like gave place. Macarena Morales was called, giving she the drummer sit, and becoming a stable member. The search of bassist had become a headache for the band, for what Daniel decided to only be devoted to play the bass only, giving vocalist's position to Francisco Cerda, a friend of him who demonstrated a spectacular vocal gift. The current and definitive formation of the band was this way clever. We opt for a name and we follow the lines that traced our own compositions. Initially we name the project like " Felaj " (that is a Viking pact based in common setting of the goods obtained by the looting.) We continue this way rehearsing until the late 2003.

2004
We discard the previous name and we opt for the definitive one: " HEDENSKRIG " (Pagan War), a better reflection of our pagan art. At this time, We had an active participation in the Chilean metal scene, but at the end of that same year, the band dissolved.

2010
After six years of silence, Hedenskrig returns in glory and majesty of the gods of war, searching for a label to release our first EP. The current lineup is: Francisco Cerda, Marcelo Garrido, Felipe Martinez, Daniel Baraona and Juan Pablo Lopez.
 
Our essence is the Barbarism and brutality, of pure sonic war of iron.
 
WE ARE THE HORDE OF THE SOUTH!!!

· contact hedenskrig@gmail.com
· Official MySpace: http://www.myspace.com/hedenskrig
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hedenskrig">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.