Hedninger is a one-man pagan metal band consisting of the sole artist, Cliff Beaver (full name: Clifford Richard Beaver III).

He was born in Wiesbaden, Germany. His birthday is August 3rd and was born in the year 1988. He moved to the United States at an early age and spent the majority of his life there. During his younger life, he was involved and interested in many fantasy subjects, such as fantasy gaming (D&D, MTG, etc...), reading fantasy literature such as "The Forgotten Realms" books among others, and spent most of his waking time in the forests of Tennessee with nature. A lot of his inspiration comes from his interest in fantasy and a major push into getting more into these things was due to the release of the "Lord of the Rings" movies.

His music is heavily inspired by other bands such as Amon Amarth, which is the band that got him interested in the "Viking Metal" scene. After that, he discovered many other bands and spent years listening to their releases. He cites major influences of his music to be bands such as follows: Amon Amarth, Thyrfing, Summoning, Darkthrone, Svartsot, Manegarm, Myrkgrav, Finntroll, Finsterforst, Windir, heidevolk, wolfchant, among many others. These are the bands that he says mostly influences his drive to create music.

Aside from his music, he is an avid beer and mead drinker.

A few of his instruments includes his Gibson Explorer guitar, Esp LTD Alexi Signature guitar, Jackson guitars, and everything is recorded through either a Peavey Bandit 112 or a Peavey 5150. Most of his music is released with virtually no budget, however there have been offers for signing to a label.

He has also lived in Canada for 8 years before returning to Tennessee after a divorce. His first album release was released in Canada. All his other albums will be released from the United States. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hedninger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.