It wasn’t until 2005 however (at age 13) when Ramos became interested in learning guitar. He typically practiced 7 or more hours every day, even playing up to 12 hours a day during vacations from school.[2]

Entirely self-taught, Ramos pushed himself hard to master the guitar and on December 15, 2009, by the time he was 16 years old, he had composed and produced his first instrumental album New Sounds. Following this release was his instrumental Christmas album The Holy Gift of Shred which became available for purchase in November 2009.

Between writing and producing albums, Ramos began to play and compete in guitar contests in different areas of the globe. On June 16, 2009, he won second place at the Guitar Idol competition (a world-wide event held in London, UK in which undiscovered guitarists compete online for a chance to play at the London International Music Show). On September 18, 2010 Ramos won second place at another world-wide event held in Bucharest, Romania called the Ziua Chitarelor 3.

In 2011 Ramos released his third instrumental album Atoms And Space, his biggest release of all three, which featured solos and guest performances by artists like Jennifer Batten (former guitarist for Michael Jackson), Andy James (guitarist), Billy Ashbaugh (former drummer for Greg Howe, 'N Sync, Justin Timberlake, Britney Spears and Pat Benatar[3]), Muris Varajic (keyboard) and Sergey Boykov (keyboard).

In 2003, when Ramos was eleven years old, his father (Hedras Ramos Sr.) formed the Latin-jazz band BlueROJO with a friend to compete in the Antigua Jazz Festival (based in Antigua, Guatemala). As of January 1, 2012, the only album produced by the band is titled REVOLUX and has not yet been released. Ramos joined his father’s band in 2010 and they have since played in several venues.

Also in 2011, after guitarist Richie Faulkner left the project to join Judas Priest, Ramos agreed to take on all guitar work for Sir Christopher Lee’s heavy metal album Charlemagne II: The Omens of Death (not yet released). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hedras+Ramos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.