HEJTMAN is the dirty rock'n'roll band from Prague.

Prague - October 2007 - remains of band SCHWABACH - KMÍN and IGRAEN are enjoying a thought of forming new bang in legendary bar 69. With using of beer coasters and sounds from mouth is coming first song WAR FOR WAR, which is recorded in provisional studio next day (KMÍN - guitar, singing and YGRAEN - bassguitar, drums, singing).

After spreading of this low recording, other of drunks is suprisingly showing to get added to band and they could finally start to "seriously" play. The last drunk is well-known LATRIS. In december is by this compositon recorded second song ROCK'N'ROLL OVERDOSE - where drums are under control of this new member.

In next year's january was recorded new song called AMEN and alike the songs before, this one was recorded in provisional studio too. During next year are comg just occasional practices, making of new songs and primarily getting drunk by supposed succes on concert stages.
With certainty of perfect symbiosis the band decides for their first show in near Březová nad Svitavou. The place was chosen far from Prague and close friends of band on purpose, because real view of live production screwed that sure feeling.

In this time is added a new member to the band, not-playing member CYBERTRASH, who supplements band's show with awesome pyrotechnical effects. He gets guesting post like chorus singer in song JACK LIVES HERE!

Even with before-concert fear band gets great applause and members decide to continue with live production. There are four more shows until the end of the year: Hutě pod Třemšínem, Rakovník and two concerts in Prague club Matrix.
Club BUNKR (Smíchov, Prague) was chosen for start of new concert season and that was in first half of january 2009. Band HEJTMAN played 14concerts during that year (Kutná Hora, Rakovník, Nový Dům, Chrášťany, Karlovy Vary, Praha, etc...)

Everytime they play, they destroy you with their music ! 

                                                              !JACK DANIELS
The band now:
YGRAEN - singing, bassguitar
KMÍN - choirs, guitar
LATRIS - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hejtman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.