There are more than one artist with name Helen[:
1) Liz Harris, better known as Grouper, has formed a new band called Helen.
2) Italo-Disco group.
3) Armenian singer.
4) Filipino band playing live drum n bass with a bit of funk.
5) A short-lived Japanese visual-kei band. Please see ＨＥＬＥＮ for more details.
6) A romanian electro-pop singer.

1) Helen is a pop group from Portland - OR, USA. Liz Harris (vocals/lead guitar), Jed Bindeman (drums/tambourine), Scott Simmons (bass/guitar), and Helen (back up vocals). Originally started with the intention of being a thrash band, it turned into something else entirely. The Original Faces was recorded over a period of several years in Portland by the band members, their friends Nick, Chris and, largely, Justin Higgins. Written together, some songs based on Liz and Scottʼs demos.

3)Helen was born in Tehran, Iran to an Armenian family. She demonstrated her vocal talents as a very young child, and at the age of 15, she was accepted to the prestigious Tehran Conservatory of Music. During her rigorous music education, Helen´s studies were focused on opera as well as classical piano. Shortly after graduation, Helen set off to travel, journeying extensively throughout Europe from 1985 to 1995. Much of her time was spent in Germany where her career took off. Helen has performed with many famous Iranian singers in concerts and other events all over Europe. In 1995 Helen moved to United States. Since her arrival here, she has completed six pop solo albums and performed in numerous concerts on a worldwide basis, thrilling diverse audiences with her wide musical range and multi-lingual skills in Armenian, Farsi, Arabic, English, and Spanish. She made her American television debut in 2004 portraying a singer on the popular TV series, JAG, produced by Paramount Pictures. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Helen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.