Helevorn has been depressing the world with emotionally-wrought doom/dark metal since 1999.
With the first finished songs they recorded a promo cd called “Prelude” in winter of 2001. It was their presentation letter, written with a Gothic-Doom style and with a very good acceptance in the underground press, and then all the odds were against them.
After few years of songwriting and some important line up changes, in October 2005 they decided to record them at Ona Digital Studios (Mallorca), and mastered at Finnvox Studios (Finland) by Mika Jussila. The final result was a self released new Cd called “Fragments”, sounding more solid, transmitting a dark, heavy and melancholic sound, opening some new doors to the band.
Then the band was touring around Spain since November 2005 in cities like Madrid, Valencia, Alicante, Burgos, Valladolid, Guadalajara and many more, supporting bands like Dismember, Avulsed…
2009 means the recording of their second studio album, produced by Jens Bogren and Johan Ornborg, also producers of bands like KATATONIA, OPETH, DRACONIAN, PARADISE LOST, etc. Their sound became more intense, slower, darker and doomier guiding the band to a bit different direction. The album artwork was made by Robert Høyem (www.attheends.com), who knew perfectly how to transmit Helevorn’s new concept.
In January 2010 Helevorn signs with the Russian label BadMoodMan/Solitude Productions, releasing “Forthcoming Displeasures”.







With the first finished songs they recorded a Promo-Cd called “Prelude” in winter of 2000. It was their presentation letter, written with a Gothic-Doom style and with a very good acceptance in the underground press.

After few years of intense work, the band worked with new songs, and they decided to record it at Ona Digital Studios (Mallorca), and mastered at Finnvox Studios (Finland) by Mika Jussila. The final result was a new Cd called “Fragments”, self released in October 2005, sounding more solid, and get also transmit a dark, heavy and melancholic sound. “Fragments” has obtained excellent reviews in several Metal Magazines, signing a deal with Goi Music to distribute the album in Spain, then, HELEVORN was touring around Spain since November 2005 in cities like Madrid, Valencia, Alicante, Burgos, Valladolid and Guadalajara

The band was asked to appear on “December Songs” a tribute to Katatonia, released in December 12th 2006 by Northern Silence Productions.

In November 2007 the band toured with SWALLOW THE SUN in their first Spanish tour including one gig in Portugal, then, Helevorn had the privilege to play at Dutch Doom Days 6 in Rotterdam with Pagan Altar, Esoteric, Serpentcult…

2009 means the recording of our second studio album “Forthcoming Displeasures”, recorded in March 2009 at Urban Studios in Palma de Mallorca, produced by Jens Bogren and Johan Ornborg, also producers of bands like KATATONIA, OPETH, DRACONIAN, PARADISE LOST, etc. taking an important step in their musical style, emphasizing a more intense and heavy sound, being more forceful, without a doubt it will be the Doomest work that HELEVORN has never done. The album artwork its being made by Robert Høyem (www.attheends.com), a Norwegian artist with lots of potential, who knows perfectly how to transmit Helevorn’s new concept.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Helevorn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.