A dark and aggressive force is emerging out of the cold and arid atmosphere of the Appalachian Mountains. Helgardh is comprised of the unique blend of ardent death metal and baleful black metal. Founded by guitarist and vocalist Famine in 2009, they have since been on a quest to disperse their somber and sickening message. Spewing words of the Occult and Witchcraft underneath technically written composition and rugged melodies, this band will become perpetual. You have a slaying monster that’s spreading its putrid filth. They infested the Appalachian with their plague, and they’re descending from the rocks where they came to disperse their epidemic. This indomitable beast will surely poison your mind.

With an incomparable enmity and eye-opening musical abilities, it’s the sound that can only be described as if Behemoth started doing coke. “We’re trying to see how far we can push the boundaries of black metal to increase the technicality of it, without crossing the line,” said Famine. In 2013, Helgardh is releasing their debut album The Black Flame Descent. Mastered by Abigail Williams mastermind Ken Sorceron, the quality is superb but still holds that dreary resonance. “I still wanted that atmosphere you get from black metal, that cold sound. I’m not one, especially for this genre, to overly produce music,” said guitarist Adramalech.

Their stage presence is a combination between theatrical and impious. With their liturgy consisting of immoral props to immerse the crowd in a wicked atmosphere, their performance is one that is unforgettable. “When we play a show, we want people to talk about it a week or two after. Maybe even longer,” said Adramalech. Beside the controversy their performance has gotten, the band wants a lasting reaction from the audience. “When you see us, there should be a feeling of fear and a feeling of love,” said Adramalech.

With their sickening message, rough recordings and unorthodox message, this band will force an impression on you. The Black Flame Descent is planning on a 2013 release, and a fall U.S. tour is in the works. So indulge in the blasphemy that is Helgardh!

Written by Stephanie Jensen of Killshot PR

Current line-up:

Famine- Guitars/Vocals
Adramalech- Guitars
Abatu- Bass
Nastrond Surtr- Drums

Band Website(s):

http://www.reverbnation.com/helgardhlegion
http://www.facebook.com/hegardhlegion
http://www.myspace.com/helgardhlegion <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Helgardh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.