There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Helix is a Canadian hard rock/heavy metal band that formed in 1974 for a Battle of the Bands contest in Kitchener, Ontario, Canada and is best known for their 1984 single "Rock You". The original lineup consisted of singer Brian Vollmer, guitarists Brent Doerner and Paul Hackman, bassist Keith Zurbrigg and drummer Brian Doerner. In 1992, Hackman died when the group's van rolled down a 40-foot enbankment after a concert in Vancouver. The band recorded the song "That Day Is Gonna Come", as a tribute to Hackman, and the video for the song featured unique Super 8 and video footage shot by Vollmer on the road over the years.

Helix released two independent albums, entitled Breaking Loose and White Lace & Black Leather in 1979 and 1981 respectively. They then signed to Capitol Records and releasing several Canadian hit albums in the '80s - No Rest For The Wicked, Walkin' The Razor's Edge and Long Way To Heaven. Walkin' the Razor's Edge sold more than 100,000 copies in Canada and 400,000 internationally.

The lead singer and sole member to remain in the band throughout their career is Brian Vollmer. Currently Brian manages every aspect of the Helix organization from booking tours to distributing Helix merchandise. He also teaches the classical vocal technique Bel Canto in London (where he also lives) as well as singing classical music at weddings and funerals throughout southern Ontario.

Helix has toured with KISS, Aerosmith, Rush, Mötley Crüe, Whitesnake, Night Ranger, Heart, Quiet Riot, W.A.S.P., and Motörhead. 

In October 2006, the song "Heavy Metal Love" was to be featured on the soundtrack for the Trailer Park Boys movie, however at the last minute the track was pulled by Dean Cameron, president of EMI Canada as distribution of the CD was being handled by Universal, and not EMI.

A latest CD entitled Get Up! was released in 2007 featuring six new songs and a re-recording of "Heavy Metal Love."
http://www.planethelix.com

2) A collaboration between musician Tom Shear (Assemblage 23) & vocalist Mari Kattman (Day Twelve, Mari & The Ghost), Helix is a genre-defying sonic tapestry of electronics, organic elements & haunting vocal harmonies. Trip-hop, dub, dream pop, synth-pop, & lofi combine into a mélange of seductive beats, found sounds, eerie textures, & distant melodies. Sonic cinema for sleepwalkers & insomniacs.

3) Alias of Beau Thigpen. Techno, grime, and southern rap-influenced producer from Atlanta, released on All Caps and well-known British bass/whatchamacallit label Night Slugs. Also releases more techno-driven music under the alias DJ Vague.

4) Helix helix, part of marionette records and resident at the crash bang wallop nights(RIP) in leeds, has been producing for over 6 years now, has had releases on marionette, deformat, and dead channel 
www.myspace.com/helixmh

5) Helix is an independent electronic music producer based in Oregon, USA, who has released a series of electro / breaks / industrial tracks on the Newgrounds Audio Portal. His music is characterized by stomping beats and deep, heavy basslines. 
http://helix6.newgrounds.com

6)Helix was the producer name of Matt Carlton, a happy hardcore/trancecore producer who was active in the UK from 1995-2001, best known for their song "U R Everything", which was featured in original form and remixed form in various hardcore compilations such as Bonkers. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Helix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.