Helios is the downtempo/ambient electronic project of Keith Kenniff, a multi-talented composer also known for his neo-classical work as Goldmund. His recordings as Helios typically mix moody synthesizer textures and slow, glitchy beats with fragile melodies played on pianos, guitars, and other acoustic instruments. After establishing the Helios sound and gaining a cult following for his early releases, particularly 2006's Eingya, Kenniff became an in-demand composer for film, television, and advertising. He remained prolific, regularly issuing albums as both Helios and Goldmund, in addition to making shoegaze/indie pop along with his wife, Hollie Kenniff, as Mint Julep. Following 2008's Caesura, much of Helios' albums were issued by Kenniff's own Unseen Records, including 2010's Unleft and 2015's Yume. In 2018, Helios moved to Ghostly International and released the ambient full-length Veriditas. 
Keith Kenniff was raised in rural Pennsylvania, where he learned to play drums, guitar, and bass. He began playing piano while studying percussion at the Berklee College of Music in Boston, and began recording music as Helios in 2001. After posting some of his music on his blog, he released his debut album, Unomia, on IDM label Merck in 2004. He issued solo piano music as Goldmund on the Type label the following year, and his downtempo work as Helios appeared on the label starting with 2006's Eingya. The release became a hit among fans of downtempo electronic acts like Boards of Canada and Tycho, and was followed by 2007's mini-album Ayres, the only Helios release to spotlight Kenniff's wistful vocals. The more beat-driven Caesura, Helios' final Type release, appeared in 2008.

Unleft, a collection of previously unreleased pieces, was self-issued on Kenniff's Unseen Records in 2010, as was Live at the Triple Door. Ambient mini-album Moiety was digitally released in 2012, and Remixed followed later in the year. While Kenniff spent much of the next few years raising his son, he resumed work as Helios with 2015's Yume, which was followed by 2016 EP Remembrance. Helios' next full-length, 2018's Veriditas, marked the project's first appearance on Ghostly International (although the label had previously issued a Goldmund track on the SMM: Context compilation).

There are other artists with the same name:


Kevin Kendle - ambient and new age artist

HELIOS is the name under which Kevin Kendle has been writing and producing chillout music since 2002.

The first project he became involved with was the "Buddha Experience" series of 5 double-CD sets of Zen chillout music. Some of the tracks produced for these CDs also appeared under name PROJECT RAINBOW.

Most recently, HELIOS has produced and mixed a fresh new compilation, Paradise Chillout, for the Paradise Music label. It contains 4 HELIOS tracks, including a new remix of the classic "Tree Top," plus specially selected tracks from the Paradise Music range.

He usually releases his music under his own name.



Frank Rössel and Martin Blechschmidt:

The German electronic pop band Helios was formed by Frank & Silke Rössel, Ricky Möller and Martin Blechschmidt  in 1997. In 2000 they signed a contract with Strahlenland Records and released their debut album, Virtually Tempted. They performed at several dancehalls and big clubs to promote their first release. In 2003, Silke and Ricky leave the band. In 2003 Helios plays their first show abroad in France for a very enthusiastic audience. In 2005 they release their second album, Copy This Day, on Absolute Music.

For samples and more info, visit www.heliosmusic.de


Raphael Pepi

At discogs.com as Helios (5) or Raphael Pepi. His first album is Aries Rising (July 2007). He is member of psytrance duo production Megadrop. Other info http://www.geomagnetic.tv/artists/sanfranpsychos1/helios.htm.

Hélios Gonzalez

This Latin singer songwriter has traveled the world over, bringing his brand of pop fusion with him wherever he set foot. Hailing from the enchanted isle of Puerto Rico, Helios is poised to take the Latin music world by storm. This BMI songwriter has collaborated with the likes of Paoli winning producer Ruben Martinez and MusicOz nominated producer Leonie Pollie, of Australia. Presently living in Miami, Helios is working closely with the award winning production team of Alfredo Cevallos and Mike Swittel. This talented tandem has worked on projects with many of the industries biggest names, some of which include Ricky Martin, Cristina Aguilera and Nestor Torres, amongst many others. Helios's work with this acclaimed duo aims to touch and inspire all those who hear it.


Helios:

6) Band Helios nastao je 1990 godine u Livnu u postavi Vlatko Ojvan – vokal, Mersad Pivcic – gitara,Zdravko Vidovic – bas, Adis Zahirovic – bubanj i Darko Knezevic – gitare. Do 1992 snimaju demo sa 5 pjesama uz promjenu na bas gitari gdje dolazi Dario Vrdoljak-Cokan.1994 snimaju svoj drugi demo uradak u Zagrebu kod Berislava Tonca nazvan ´´Zona sumraka´´ u postavi: Vlatko Ojvan – vokali, Zdravko Vidovic – bass, Katarina Bralo – Klavijatura,Dubravko Boban – bubanj i Darko knezevic – gitare. 1996 godine izdaju za ´´croatia ton´´ album prvijenac ´´Bolja vremena´´sa 10 pjesama medju kojima se tada istice pjesma ´´Necu da se sisam´´za koju snimaju i svoj prvi spot. Band sacinjavaju:Vlatko Ojvan – vokal,Zdravko Vidovic – bass,Adis Zahirovic – bubanj i Darko Knezevic – gitare.2000 snimaju novi demo uradak u postavi: Dario Kacarevic – Vokali,Mersad Pivcic – bas,Haris Jahic – bubanj,Laris Pasalic – klavijature i Darko Knezevic – gitare,te snimaju spot za ´´ugasit cu svjetla´´ u produkciji Erola Gagule,te osvajaju 2 mjesto na BHT tada najgledanijoj glazbenoj emisiji ´´BH Sound´´,sviraju po BiH sa Knock out,Irina i VI,Vatreni poljubac,Erogene zone,Skroz... 2002 snimaju spot za pjesmu´´Poslije tebe´´opet u produkciji Erola Gagule,te na ´´Bh Sound osvajaju 3.mjesto,sviraju opet po BiH,sa Negative,KUD Idijoti...a odrzavaju i svoj prvi samostalni koncert u Sarajevu u klubu ´´Sloga´´ 2005 izdaju album ´´Drugi svijet´´ za BiH trziste izdavacka kuca´´Song zelex´´ u postavi: Darko Knezevic – Gitare,vokali,Tonci Trboglav – klavijature,Mirko Knez – bas,Faris Milak – bubanj te Iva Ivkovic kao back vokal (Sto je veoma bitno za dalji rad Heliosa u vokalnom smislu) Snimaju i spot za pjesmu ´´Drugi svijet´´,opet Erol Gagula kao redatelj spota. 2010 godina i ulaze u studio u potpuno promjenejnom pogledu na buduci rad banda! Snimaju album ´´...do kraja vremena´´. Najvaznja stvar koja se desila bandu su Iva Ivkovic na vokalu i Nikola Dzaja na bubnjevima i produkciji i mixu,koji unose nove korake u bandu.
2011 zavrsavanje albuma u postavi:Iva Ivkovic – vokali,Nikola Dzaja – bubnjevi,Goran Mihaljevic – bas,Tonci Trboglav – gitara,Josip Gunjaca – klavijature i Darko Knezevic – gitare................ Uskoro izdaju singl za Cro rec........

 Joey Skarzenski 

An undergraduate student studying political science and the Classics at UCLA. He has been an amateur DJ for the past three years and has recently begun producing with minimal remixes and reworks. His favorite genres include nu-disco, indie dance or indietronic, and anything akin to the 1980s. For work he also spins tribal and other more minimalist subgenres of house. Some of his work is available at: http://soundcloud.com/iamhelios/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Helios">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.