The thirst began somewhere around 1998-1999 when --Wille-- (vox & guitar) found three other hard-drinking metalheads and they started rehearsing some killer tunes. But there were problems waiting around the first corner for these thirsty fuckers. They got kicked out from the rehearsal place just before recording of the very first demo. The reason for that was.. well, lot´s of alcohol were consumed that very rehersal night. But the demo got recorded (in April ´99) and it sold out. 

After drinking all the money they got from the demo sales the foursome noticed that it was impossible to find new rehearsal place. --Grunge-- (drums) and --Toni-- (gtr) were already living in different sides of eastern Finland and --Hellboozer_Nte--  was moving to Kuopio. Without a place to play and members living in different towns, they thought it was best to quit the band. But the flame remained still alive inside Nate and he tried to do his own 
recordings with 4-tracker, soon to realize the lack of talent so the idea of HBU got buried.

In the summer of 2006 Nate was "forced" to play bass with two local hardrockers, --Speech--(gtr) and --Juhu-- (drums). They started rehearsing some songs in Juhu's brother's studio 2 hours/week. Some of the songs started to sound like HBU and there were problems to decide the band's name, so Nate came up with the idea of using the name Hellboozer Union (why leave such a good name without use), and the dudes agreed. 
After a while they found their own rehearsal place and --Julma--  joined the group to play bass so that Nate could just concentrate on rööaaring.

In the early ´08 [Juhu left the band because of the lack of time, so one long time drinking partner --Cruciatus--  came to help. With this line-up, the second demo/mcd/whatever will be recorded in the near future and possible gigs will be played as well.

On june 2009 --Niko-- came to play second guitar. March 2010 --Dave-- came to play drums.
2012 --Kasperi-- came to play second guitar. 



Visit our official site for recent updates: 

http://www.facebook.com/HellboozerUnion <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hellboozer+Union">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.