There are several bands under the name Hellion:
1) Hellion is a heavy metal/speed metal band from Los Angeles, California, USA, that was formed in 1981
2) Hellion is a heavy metal band from Washington, D.C., USA, that was active in early 80s.
3) Hellion is a hard rock band from New York, USA, that was formed in 1981

--===--

1) - Hellion are an American heavy metal band from the 1980s. They are noted for having female vocalist Ann Boleyn. Their most highly regarded studio album is The Black Book.

Early days
The band started as a cover group, covering songs by the likes of Ozzy Osbourne, Scorpions and AC/DC. The group's first performances (or "Mega-Parties") were held at a mansion in Tujunga, California which was occupied by Ann Boleyn. While residing at the mansion, Hellion recorded a homemade demo cassette, which resulted in the band gaining attention in both underground and mainstream music magazines.In late 1982, Hellion was approached by Mystic Records, a Hollywood-based punk label, who wanted to include "Nightmares in Daylight" on a compilation album. Several weeks prior to the recording session, Peyton Tuthill left the band, citing Ann Boleyn's involvement in the occult arts as his reason. Tuthill has since become a minister. Following Tuthill's departure, bass player Rik Fox  (who was a founding member of W.A.S.P.) was a number of top musicians who auditioned for Hellion, and was invited to return for a second round of auditions. A few days later, however, Fox, was offered a gig with Steeler. At the last minute Brian West of London, who had played in the Seattle-based band, Power Program, with Ann Boleyn, was brought in for the recording session which took place on New Year's Eve.

Hellion became famous after being discovered by Ronnie James Dio in the mid-1980s. Hellion was based in Los Angeles and there were several line-ups, all of which were very good. The band probably would have become very big, if it was not for the major record companies' concept of female singers and the type of music women were expected to perform in the 1980s. Many famous managers and record companies offered Ann Boleyn deals if she agree to become more of a pop-rock singer, such as Pat Benatar. (There is a story that the former manager of Van Halen was convinced that Ann Boleyn was going to be "the next Pat Benatar." Another famous record producer, who had worked with Janis Joplin, said she was the 1980s answer to Janis.) At the same time, most of the record companies thought that the band itself was so heavy that they needed a male singer. These conflicts often caused band members to come and go.

Hellion developed a substantial following in the cities where they regularly performed. Because Ann Boleyn is one of the only metal singers who did not rely on sexy costumes and never "sold out", she has maintained a strong cult following, and releases recordings every several years. The last Hellion album came out in 2003 on Massacre Records (Germany).

She took a few years off from music to go to law school. But, she has said in interviews that she will continue performing and recording when she is done with law school.

2) - Hellion from WA is a heavy metal band, they released just one demo in 1982 called 'You're Not Welcome Here. Most of their line-up was later involved in various Pentagram related projects, like Death Row, Bedemon, Chained Lace, and Pentagram itself.


3) - Hellion is a hard rock band from New York, USA, that was formed in 1981. They released, 'Dangerous Maneuvers in 1984 on Stampede Recording Co.  After the band split up some members went on to form Melidian. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hellion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.