HELL WITHIN was an aggressive five piece machine that rose from the depths of Lowell, MA. Making their mark locally under the name "TWYTCH". The band’s first self titled LP, "TWYTCH", released in 2001, quickly gained them regional recognition. Their second EP "Hatred" released in 2003 proved to be nothing short of a mixture of styles that brought them to where they are today.   The EP shows a mature mix of exactly where their perfected sound has taken them, a heavy, hard hitting, driving force of powerful aggression.

After an extensive amount of touring, press, on-line exposure and high volume sales through out New England and the East Coast of the United States they finally caught the attention of Lifeforce Records. "TWYTCH" felt everything was falling into place however the name no longer fit. The band collectively agreed that they had out grown the name having become more brutal, technical and abrasive. After weeks of deliberation they unanimously agreed upon the name "HELL WITHIN", which better fit their music as well as their personalities.

After returning from the IEMF tour, Hell Within went through several changes, not only in the band lineup, but musically as well. Longtime drummer Bubba Joyce resigned, and was replaced by Derek Jay, formerly of Trauma Concept.

In the fall of 2006, production on Hell Within's second full-length album Shadows of Vanity went underway. It was at this time that creative differences between the members became apparent. Making matters confusing was that vocalist Matt McChesney did guest vocals on The Autumn Offering's new album, since they were without a vocalist at the time. Rumors were swirling amongst fans that McChesney was no longer in Hell Within. On June 24, 2007, as production was wrapping up on Shadows of Vanity, McChesney released an even more bewildering statement to blabbermouth.net: "I'm devoting 100% of my time, for the immediate future, to The Autumn Offering. I am not leaving Hell Within." [4] However, the damage was done. Hell Within found a new vocalist and publicly introduced Brian Roy on July 16, 2007.[5]

Sensing that the screaming style of vocals was a trend and no longer relevant, Hell Within decided to embark upon a throwback sound reminiscent of late 80's thrash. Reviews for Shadows of Vanity were generally good. The album was produced by John Ellis and mixed by Mark Lewis of AudioHammer Studios (Trivium, Bury Your Dead, God Forbid.) Tartarean Desire claimed the album was "... a breath of fresh air... With amazing solos, tight and insane music." [6] A tour in 2008 included support acts such as DEATHBEAT and Sikend, both of whom were fans of Hell Within for years.

In October 2009, Hell Within announced that they had signed with Thorp Records and would be releasing a new album in the Spring 2010. Hell Within headlined the "Scars In Oblivion Tour 2010" with Long Island metalcore act Letter To The Exiles (Strike First Records), a 6 week full-US tour leading up to the July 13th release of their new album "God Grant Me Vengeance".

The band called it a day in October 2011.

The final line-up is:

JJ Long - Vocals
Isaias Martinez - Lead Guitar
Tony Zimmerman- Rhythm Guitar
Derek Garabedian - Bass
Derek Jay - Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hell+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.