Hell Rides North is a four-piece hard rock/metal band from metro-Detroit. Members include: Ryan "Slade" Arini, vocalist. Matt Lewis, lead guitarist. Vince "Bombs" Bommarito, bassist and Dan "DMF" Lewis, drummer. The group formed in the winter of 2003 with each bringing to the table much experience and have created a refreshing new sound, quite unique to the music industry.

All in their twenties, they are not your typical rock band. Matt is classically trained and cites works from classical composers as inspirations for his solos. Vince, who is self-taught, has played with Matt for ten years and is revered for his talented play on all types of instruments. Vince is also known as "The Human Jukebox" because his ear for music is so keen; he can pick up on any type of music in seconds.

DMF joined the duo and helped spear the creativity into overdrive. Matt and DMF are brothers also, so the music comes naturally. Ryan rounds out the group with his wide range of songwriting and vocal skills and the mesh is perfect!

Although there are several good bands out there, HRN is frustrated with the current state of rock music, especially on the radio which seems to be getting somewhat diluted. HRN celebrates the aspects of heavy metal, adrenaline-fueled chaotic thrashing guitars, pounding double base drums, thunderous bass guitar and exceptionally versatile singing. To see them in concert is electrifying! It is a treat to witness HRN playing off each other so instinctively. Their infectious sound captures one's attention instantly, which is becoming all too uncommon these days. Listeners are enjoying being able to appreciate the range of the melody and harmony in both the music and lyrics sometimes left out these days.

Hell Rides North is influenced by many artists, most notably Pantera, Metallica, System Of A Down and Guns And Roses. Combine the sound of these bands, with their fresh approach and likeable aura mixed with some "Detroit attitude" and you have that unique new sound that is the talk of all newcomers.

Focusing mainly from a vast list of original material, HRN is known to rip through covers of their favorite artists like "War Pigs" from Black Sabbath, "Old School Hollywood" from System Of A Down and "Seek And Destroy" from Metallica, and "Mouth For War" by Pantera, to name a few.

HRN has played in establishments allover the Detroit area and surrounding states, and has built up a solid reputation and fanbase. Screaming Scott (101.1 WRIF) said, "Hell Rides North has unlimited potential."

HRN is also very talented in the studio, producing and engineering all their work. Ryan is "Pro Tools Certified" from Full Sail in Orlando and operates Fusion Studios in Shelby Township. They write, record, produce, mix, and fund everything themselves. Already having 2 E.P.'s completed, the guys entered the studio to record their first full-length L.P., Born and Raised. This is that CD. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hell+Rides+North">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.