There are multiple artists called Hellhound. 
1.  A Japanese heavy/speed metal band. 
2.  A US power/speed metal with progressive overtones from Bay Area.
3.  A US hardcore/thrash/punk band from Dover, NH. 
4. A Finnish punk rock band that was active in late 70s.
.
(１) Japanese heavy/speed metal band

Tokyo based 4 members band, playing old school traditional heavy metal. Tradtional heavy metal is more than just playing some tunes or taking compromises with labels for the money. Only 100% metalheads can do it the right way, and that's what HELLHOUND is about.
January 2004, they recorded 5 songs for their 1st mini album "WELCOME TO METAL ZONE" at a small club in 12 hours.
All Japanese heavy metal maniacs - the band call them "HMG (Heavy Metal Generation)" got crazy about the 

(2) San Francisco Bay Area

Formed in 1982, and active on the San Francisco Bay Area club circuit from 1984 – 1988, HellHound shared stages with the likes of Slayer, Megadeth, Anthrax, Death Angel and Forbidden. Despite releasing two well-received demos and attracting a fair amount of attention, these melodic thrash metallers disbanded before reaching their full potential. 
In the years that followed, the band achieved cult status amongst the legions of underground metal fans, which lead to the release of their demos on CD by High Vaultage Records in 1998. Interest remained strong during the next decade, as a new generation of old school metal fans were exposed to HellHound via the Internet. 
In 2008, the demos were repackaged by Stormspell Records and released on CD once again, this time with a DVD of a television appearance from 1987. It was at this time founding member Rich Pelletier (bass) and primary songwriter Robert Kolowtiz (lead guitar) decided to reunite the band at long last. Joined by original members Mike “Wiggins” Walish (lead vocals) and Bob Edwards (lead guitar), they recruited drummer Wayne Devecchi to replace Steve Pelletier, who has retired from playing music. 
HellHound are currently writing new material and preparing their return to stages locally and abroad, eager to prove they are a viable force in the world of metal, and not just a nostalgic “blast from the past”.

(3) New Hampshire's hardcore punk Hellhound 

This band started in August of 2009. They currently have two releases which consists of a Self Titled 7" and a four song cassette entitled "Black Cassette". They are currently a 3 piece and are working on their debut full length which should be out by the end of 2011 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hellhound">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.