There are several artists who share this name.

1. Hellfire: Galway/Saratoga Springs NY, USA 

Started in 2005/2006 by bassist/vocalist Dylan Baldwin, guitarist Harry Chriss, and drummer Ian Klamp, Hellfire has grown from a garage band into a group of dedicated and talented musicians. Hellfire gained guitar shredders Cory Tyson and Evan Hare in late 2007 however, in Feb. of '09 drummer Ian Klamp left the band due to personal issues. Hellfire picked up crushing new drummer Justin Cheever shortly after Ian's departure and quickly resumed playing shows.

Their debut album 'Warnings' was released February 6th, 2009, recorded by bassist/vocalist Dylan Baldwin (who handled guitar and keyboard duties) and drummer Ian Klamp at DMS Studios in Clarksville NY. 

2. HellFire are a British extreme hardcore/metal band hailing from Burntwood - a small mining town in the West Midlands. The band was started by brothers Roy and Jay Price, who appear on guitar and vocals respectively. The line-up is filled out by Big Al on drums, and the three piece recorded a first demo in 2004, before completing the line up with bassist Greg in 2005 to write and record debut EP Hell On Earth. After playing shows up and down the country with the aid and support of Meltdown Records, they signed to management and distribution label Holier Than Thou Records in 2007, releasing their second EP Bleed For The Cause. This EP served as a sampler for their debut album (also entitled Bleed for the Cause), which was officially released through Casket Records on August 18th 2008 and received 4 out of 5 'K's in Kerrang! magazine, among other very positive reviews.

3. Trash Metal band from Santiago, Chile founded early 90's, who released their 1st record on January 2008 called Killed By The Axe.

4. Band from Jihlava, Czech republic. Founded in 2001 as trash metal band, later with diferent set-up as heavy metal band. Leader and all-time member Petr "Supíno" Supek plays drums, Tomáš "Bloodstorm" Roháček plays guitar and Jan Matějíček plays bassguitar.

5. A bedroom solo artist from Milton Keynes, England. one demo, entitled "Inferno". Currently working on a new demo, with the working title "Demonic Butterfly"

6. A Polish heavy/trash metal. HELLFIRE was formed in 1999 in Warsaw, Poland. After numerous changes the line-up included Tomasz Twardowski / Vocals, Kuba Olejnik / Guitars, Artur Grabowski / Guitars, Tomasz Weglewski / Bass and Jarek Stanczyk / Drums. They recorded and published at their own expense HELLFIRE’s first album, “Recoffination”, available since 2003. In the meantime the band adopted a new drum player, Grzegorz Olejnik, who replaced Jarek. With his participation HELLFIRE promoted their debut through a series of concerts. Positive reactions from both Polish and foreign press (Heavy Oder Was?, Metal Hammer, The Legacy, to name just a few titles) encouraged them to begin working on the second album. In January 2004 HELLFIRE recorded the single “Where is the Answer?” as the sample of the coming material. A couple of months later the band parted with their bassist. In summer 2004 they recorded their latest material “Requiem for my Bride”, genuine concept album. In Autumn 2004 HELLFIRE started cooperation with SONIC AGE Records, who decided to publish “Requiem for my Bride”.

7. HELLFIRE are bea, nike, nadja, robert and naomi from Munich, Germany. 2003 they released "Heaven don't want you? Hellfire will take you" on Hausmusik, see http://www.hausmusik.com/hellfire.html for more information

8. Mysterious Swedish black metal band very much in the vein of the first two Bathory albums. Released a self-titled demo and a 2000 full-length, "Into Fire".
Hellfire (Sweden) on Metal-Archives <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hellfire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.