There is more than one artist with this name:

1. An influential underground metal unit from Derbyshire, England, occult rockers Hell formed in the early '80s, but it would be nearly 30 years before they would release their debut album. Founded in 1982 by members of the recently disbanded British metal groups Race Against Time and Paralex, Hell's horror-themed stage show and steely NWOBHM sound drew comparisons to contemporaries like Iron Maiden, Mercyful Fate, Saxon, and Judas Priest -- they were one of the first bands to utilize the devilish corpse paint that would come to define the black metal scene in later years. The group went largely ignored by labels and journalists, but they achieved cult status via word of mouth and underground tape trading. The band eventually inked a deal with the aptly named Belgian label Mausoleum Records, but two weeks prior to heading into the studio to record their debut, the label went bankrupt, which led to the band splitting up, and ultimately to the tragic 1987 suicide of vocalist/guitarist and co-founder Dave Halliday. One of the group's biggest supporters at the time was then-aspiring guitarist Andy Sneap, who would go on to co-found thrash metal legends Sabbat and eventually become a Grammy-winning producer. In 2008, the original members of Hell (Tony Speakman [bass], Kev Bower [guitar/keys], and Tim Bowler [drums]) contacted Sneap about re-recording the group's old material in conjunction with the upcoming release of the original demos. Sneap agreed and soon served as both the producer and guitar player for the band, with David Bower (a notable television and stage actor, as well as the brother of guitarist Kev Bower) taking over vocal duties. The resulting Human Remains arrived via Nuclear Blast in 2011, followed by a run of high-profile festival shows. Hell released their sophomore studio album, Curse and Chapter, in 2013. The band returned in 2018 with an eponymous third long player, which was released via Sentient Ruin Laboratories. ~ James Christopher Monger

2. An American sludge/drone doom solo project, formed in 2008 by M.S.W., a multi-instrumentalist from Salem, Oregon. Hell began as a creative outlet for M.S.W., but it eventually gained momentum and grew to include a touring band. According to M.S.W., the project disregards typical religious themes and instead focuses on the concept of a "personal Hell".

3. DJ Hell (or simply Hell) has balanced Detroit minimalism and Chicago acid-house as well as more spacious German trance and hardcore. Beginning his mixing career while still a teenager, Hell moved through punk and new wave to electro, house and hip-hop by the mid-'80s. His DJing gradually led to the start of his production career, and one of his first singles "My Definition of House Music" became a large club hit when reissued by Belgium's R&S Records in 1992. He moved to Berlin to work with Hardwax Records during 1993-94, and also spent time in New York before moving back to his native Munich. Besides releasing his album debut Geteert und Gefedert on Disko B in 1994, DJ Hell recorded a volume in the Studio !K7 mix series X-Mix. His second full-length, Munich Machine, also appeared on Disko B -- though credited simply to Hell. Besides continuing to DJ around the world, he also ran the International Deejay Gigolos label, which released tracks by Jeff Mills, Christopher Just and David Carretta, among others.

In 2003 Hell (real name: Helmut Geier) released another album titled "NY Muscle" recorded almost completely in New York. On this release he worked together with artists like Erlend Oye, Alan Vega, James Murphy, Billie Ray Martin and several others.

4. A heavy metal band from Adelaide,Australia who had a song 'Hand Is Quicker' on the Dominator Records compilation album in the late 1980's.

5. A black metal band from Luxembourg.

6. A hungarian black metal band also used the name Hell. They released a demo and a Split with Vorkuta, later changed their name to Wound.

7. Niklas Hellberg, known as Hell, was a member of Peace, Love & Pitbulls, All That Jazz and are currently in the band Sällskapet

8. A German thrash metal band who did the "Satanic Death" demo in 1985. It is rumoured that some Destruction members were involved in this band <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.