There are SIX artists using this name:

(1) Helm is the solo project of Luke Younger, one half of the London/Berlin noise duo Birds of Delay and guitarist for avant-weirdos Spin Spin The Dogs. Drawing equally upon noise and ambient elements, the music on Impasse illustrates Younger’s continuing development within the field of experimental electronics and drone composition. Utilising synths, feedback systems and effects, these two long-form tracks offer a dense mixture of blistering yet melodic walls of sound.
https://www.facebook.com/hhelmm


(2) Helm is a Doom/Slugde Metal from Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada.
Band members:
- Aaron Young: Bass
- Tom "Yeti" Ripper: Drums
- Mark Estabrooks: Guitars, Vocals 
(https://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Helm/3540349389)


(3) Swedish band mixing classical electronica with trip-hop, industrial, big beat and indie rock. (www.myspace.com/helmnu)


(4) Based in Marin County (San Francisco, California), Helm is best known for their Tribal style accompaniment for, among others, FatChanceBellyDance and Hahbi Ru. In addition to presenting music true to the traditions of the Arab world through folk and original compositions, Helm includes pieces from the classical Arabic heritage in their repertoire.  Mark Bell began playing Arabic percussion in 1972. He has performed at many of the top venues for Arabic and Persian music in San Francisco and Los Angeles area and has many television, video, and recording credits as well. Mark has also traveled extensively throughout the Middle East and has studied percussion in Egypt, Iran, and Turkey. Ling Shien Bell started playing Arabic music in 1980, first on nai and then mismar. She has many performance credits independent of her involvement with Helm, reflecting her varying interests in French, classical, and Balkan music. She recently has added accordion to her repertoire. Ling Shien is the primary composer and arranger of Helm’s music. (http://www.helmmusic.com/)


(5) An alternative metal band from Queensland, Australia, which combines experimental, ambient, progressive and post-metal elements to create a unique sound. They were formed in 2008, and within 6 months, they released their debut album: "Vol 1... 'Keelhaul'". In december of 2009, Helm released their follow-up entitled "Vol 2... 'The Winter March'". (http://www.myspace.com/ghostatthehelm)


(6) Rock band Helm (ancient Slavic name of Balkan Peninsula) was founded in 2011 in Priboj and our members are:
Goran Takić Tolla – lead guitar/vocals
Stefan Nikolić Šteks – bass guitar/backing vocals
Mladen Bijelić Japanac – drums.
By genre, our music belongs to the hard rock sound, while by the lyrics (to which we pay special attention) we try to reach all aspects of social life regardless if the topic is love, social status, sarcasm, or something utterly abstract.

At our concerts we try to “sharpen the edge” of which the good rock ‘n’ roll is proud of and convey the strength of our message to the audience by our songs, synchronicity, dynamics and groove.

Besides Priboj, Helm regularly plays in numerous clubs in the region i.e. Uzice, Cacak, Visegrad, Gorazde, Bijelo Polje, Rudo, Foca, Prijepolje, Ivanjica, Arilje, Novi Pazar, Nova Varos... In the summer of 2011 we were the opening band to Gale (Kerber) and Naida (Smak) and in 2012 we were the opening band to the YU Grupa. In the same year we were the highlight of the Lim Fest in Priboj during its first day, and the second day we played together with Rambo Amadeus. This summer we have opened the motocycling season in Smederevo, as an opening band to Dado Topic.

We are the finalists of the Belgrade Demo Festival Live 2013 which enabled us to present ourselves to Belgrade audience in the clubs such as the Blue Moon, Danguba and the legendary stage of KST. This year we were the finalists of 47 Gitarijada in Zajecar, where we won fourth place, according to the votes of the jury, out of over 300 bands that applied for the competition...

https://www.facebook.com/pages/HELM/238032922890734
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Helm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.