Hemina are a 4 piece Progressive Metal band from Sydney, Australia. The band's sound has been described as a unique combination of hard hitting syncopated grooves, lush synth backwashes, multi-part vocal harmonies, blistering memorable leads with a focus on songwriting and emotion.

The band have supported international bands Uriah Heep, Kamelot, Apocalyptica and will be supporting Queensryche in October for the Sydney leg of the tour. They have shared the stage with Aussie legends, Caligula’s Horse, Chaos Divine, Voyager, James Norbert Ivanyi, Divine Ascension, Breaking Orbit among many others and simply live for the stage.

Hemina's first two albums 'Synthetic' and 'Nebulae' were met with critical acclaim traversing two different sides of the band's sonic spectrum from the complex and dark, to the concise and uplifting. 

With a reinvigorated lineup, the band's third album 'Venus' is the most collaborative work to date offering flavours of what fans have come to expect in the past as well as a new palette and range of expression never before heard from the group. Hemina return with an 80 minute concept album detailing and examining domestic violence, relationships, and individuality in the 21st century with a narrative arc to accompany and elaborate on their previous conceptual output.
'Venus' is Hemina at their heaviest and most energetic without ignoring the tender and delicate side that keeps the music in balance. With a powerful modern production and mix crafted between Skene and McMahon at Ploughman Studios with audiophile mastering from Ermin Hamidovic at Systematic Productions (Periphery, Devin Townsend, Plini) - this is the band at their best.

Hemina is:
Douglas Skene - Vocals, Guitars, Keyboards
Mitch Coull - Guitars, Vocals
Jessica Martin - Bass, Vocals
Nathan McMahon - Drums, Vocals
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hemina">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.