There are two bands called Henceforth.

HencefortH (note the last H) is a melodic oldschool hardcore band from Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
www.caretodancewithus.com Their last album is called "An Ambush Among Friends" A couple of songs you can find on Last.fm. There's also a Youtube clip on here!


Henceforth is a heavy metal, progressive rock band from Brasil and first saw the light of day back in 1993, when Hugo, Fabio (both former members of Wardeath, a trash metal band) and Andre Nikakis (former Final Garden bass player) got together to start a new band. After some time, the line-up was stabilized with Hugo (g), Andre (b), Fabio (d), Daniel Matos (v, Andre Matos' younger brother) and Cristiano Altieri (k). In 1996 the band recorded its first demo tape "The Last Day", containing 3 songs ("Leave", "Runaway" and "The Last Day"), which was reviewed in several publications throughout the world and was highly acclaimed by the fans. By then the band was playing in the underground circuit at its hometown, São Paulo. Further down the road, singer Daniel left the band to work in other musical projects. He was replaced by BJ, who would be introduced to the public on the second 3-song ("In the Garden", "Reaching for the Sky" and "Tales") demo. With this line-up the band would play at some bigger venues as openning acts for Angra. BJ left the band on June, 2000 (a little less than one year after the band started working with Guilherme and Luis on the pre-production of the debut album). He was replaced by Frank Harris, whose style fitted even better into the band's music. Late in 2001 the band started recording its debut-CD, but due to a number of factors work on the CD was virtually interrupted in 2002 only to re-start on early 2003. In the mean time, another line-up change: bass player Andre decides to leave the band and move to Greece; his position was filled by Hugo's brother and Shaaman bass player Luis Mariutti.

Henceforth today remains faithful to its roots by mixing Heavy Metal and Progressive Rock, but sounding heavier than ever before. The self-titled debut album was released in Brazil in December, 2005 via Voice Music.

www.henceforth.com.br <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HencefortH">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.