Hercules and Love Affair is a musical project from New York formed in 2007 by DJ  Andy Butler. From 2007 through 2010, members included Nomi Ruiz, Kim Ann Foxman and guest singer Antony Hegarty from the band Antony and the Johnsons. They are signed to DFA Records. Their single "Blind" was released on March 3rd, 2008, and their debut self-titled album (produced by Butler and Tim Goldsworthy) was released on March 10th, 2008. The album has been critically well-received and charted in the top 40 in several countries.

In January 2011, Andy Butler came back with a brand new crew and released "Blue Songs", Hercules and Love Affair's sophomore effort, mainly influenced by nineties house and electro music. Aside from  Kim Ann Foxman, band members now includes Mark Pistel,  Aerea Negrot,  Shaun Wright.

The band's central figure, Andrew Butler, began his musical career at 15, DJing in a Denver leather bar run by a hostess called Chocolate Thunder Pussy. He then moved to Brooklyn, in order to attend Sarah Lawrence College. According to Butler: "I’ve been writing songs since childhood. I made music for dance performances in college (where he studied under Martin Goldray), like a remake of Gino Soccio’s ‘Runaway’ done in the style of Kraftwerk." 

Former member of the collective, Nomi, was born and raised in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, New York. One of her earlier songs "You'll Never Know" appeared on "The Enlightened Family" Compilation released by Voodoo EROS. She also released her debut album "Lost in Lust" in 2005, an auto-biographical snap shot of life on the streets of Brooklyn. The record was self-released under the Park Side Records label and is being compared to a union between Wu Tang Clan's The RZA on beats and Sade on vocals. Since the album's release Nomi has toured Europe and the US with CocoRosie. She performed at stylist Patricia Field's residence for Fashion Week, toured Europe with Antony and the Johnsons as one of 13 NYC Beauties in the Turning Tour and recently emerged as an MC on a yet to be released version of "Heat of the Moment" with the legendary Deborah Harry.

www.herculesandloveaffair.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hercules+and+Love+Affair">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.