There are multiple artists using this name:

1. Power/Thrash Metal Band from Los Angeles 

Mike Howe - Vocals (Metal Church)
Brian Korban - Guitars (Reverend)
Bobby Marquez - Guitars
Dennis O'Hara - Bass (Reverend, Dreams of Damnation)
Rick Merick - Drums

2. Black metal (early)/Black 'n' roll (later) band from the Netherlands.

Thomas Goat - Vocals/guitars
Tony Hellfire - Lead bass guitar (Sapiens End)
Tom Auf Der Axe - drums

3. Death metal band from Ostróda, Poland. Formed in 1991, released a demo and EP, split up afterwards. Last known line-up was:

Arek Kisielewski - guitars
Ziemek - guitars
Krzysiek - drums
Robert - vocals
Zbyszek - bass

4. NWOBHM

5. Japanese guitarist Hiro Kawahara 1984-1996

6. A local MC from Miami, Florida

7. Czech abstract hip-hop.

8.Cochin based band from India.
Named after the fearless Greek who was burnt alive for voicing his opinion, Heretic believes in speaking out fearlessly and thinking out of the box, unafraid to voice their opinion and standing their ground. They are a four piece metalcore band from Cochin.They are rated among the best bands from Kerala. Apart from being the runners-up at the prestigious Kingfisher Kerala Rocks Competition' 06-07,they were shortlisted among seven bands from all over India to play at the famous rock festival of June Rock Out'07 at Bangalore.Their next appearance was at The Great Indian October Fest'07 at Bangalore playing alongside famous bands such as Motherjane and Thermal and a Quater.Other gigs include headlining act at Yamaha RoXX, a rock show by Yamaha motors at Cochin University.Apart from original music which they largely concentrate on, they cover bands such as System of a Down, Slipknot, Mudvayne etc.In The 07-08 version of Kingfisher Kerala Rocks Heretic emerged as the Best Kerala Band and Second in the festival comprising 42 bands.The band was formed in September' 05 .The band is currently in the studio recording its maiden album at AISE Studios, Cochin.

9. Ragga-jungle DJ from Los Angeles. He is also the owner of the label Rude Bwoy Plastic. He's more known under the moniker Heretic than DJ Heretic.

10. Brazilian metal band with egyptian/greek themes in their music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heretic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.