There are 3 artists with the name "Hereafter" listed here: 

1) Hereafter Thrash Metal from Malaysia. 

HEREAFTER was fucking born by Redza (DEVASTATOR) somewhere in August 2007. HEREAFTER played with the concept of typical Old-School Thrash and Heavy Metal. HEREAFTER is the continuity from Redza first band, MEPHISTOPHELES (R.I.P 1997-2000). The reason for HEREAFTER was formed is to show to the shitty bands & society that material is fucking way more important than getting a band for gigs / shows.

Sept 2007, HEREAFTER released its first fucking demo entitled ‘After Tomorrow’. Line-up for this release is Redza (Guitars,Bass,Vocals & Drum Manipulations). The demo includes 4 dirty heavy & thrashing shits. The tracks are Far From Here, The Signs Of The End, Lost in The Galaxy and After Tomorrow.

Nov 2007, HEREAFTER move to the next step by recruiting a death metal bastard named Sargstone (VARICOSE VEIN) for drums.

Jan 2008, HEREAFTER released a damn Single entitled ‘A Date To Remember’ which consist of 2 tracks A Date To Remember and Living After Midnight (JUDAS PRIEST Cover).

Feb 2008, HEREAFTER has recruited another bastard friend named Haidir Lifeform on bass to complete the battalion. Currently actively rehearsing new materials for full-length & recording for ‘A Tribute To Celtic Frost/Hellhammer’ under Dead Center Productions (Ukraine).

June 2008, HEREAFTER first destructive live performance with full line-ups in ‘The Era Of The Ipoh Legacy’ gig held at Ipoh. Goddamn fucking thanks to the organisers Mr. Jax & Nizam.

Nov 2008, HEREAFTER released its 3rd material entitled ‘Terrorstrial’. Consists of 7 hell-terrorising thrashing craps. The shitlists are Nuclear Battlefield, A Date To Remember, Sampah, Total Holocaust/Unknown Disaster, Conclusion:Terrorstrial, Holy Wars (MEGADETH Cover) and a bonus track named Crap.

Jan 2009, no fucking luck but shit happens to Sargstone as HEREAFTER gives way to him to return back to his own band, VARICOSE VEIN. Many goddamn thanks to Sargstone for making HEREAFTER "Terrorstrial" complete!!

Feb 2009, HEREAFTER charge itself by recruiting an old-damn-friend named Panjang Nuclearblaster (DEVASTATOR) for drums. Currently HEREAFTER is rehearsing new shitty materials for their upcoming next releases.

June 2009, HEREAFTER has successfully destroy the stage of Razz Ma Tazz for Sickening Art Pt 2 in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah. At this same date, HEREAFTER has released a split release with Sabahan band BESTIAL HORDES entitles "Street Metal Terrorist." The released is a complete hellish raw-sound live rehearsal recordings quality. No edits & cuts! Total fucking RAW!

Dec 2009, HEREAFTER debut New Song & Video Clip "Orang Jahat" available for preview in the Youtube. The process of mixing are now in the finalizing stage & expected to be release by Feb/March 2010.

Apr 2010, HEREAFTER latest full-length release 2010 "Government Conspiracy" will be released on 1st May 2010. We are fucking sorry for the delays but we can assure that this time, we will get the job done!

July 2010, HEREAFTER successfully destroyed stage for Bangkok Thrash Hang Over in Thailand.

Oct 2010, HEREAFTER successfully fucked-up Kuala Lumpur stage of Mayhemic Musica Pt 1. Fuck those
useless amplifiers!

Nov 2010, HEREAFTER successfully demolish Immortal Bar Bangkok stage & video interview with MaxTv Thailand.

Jan 2011, HEREAFTER successfully carnage Kuala Lumpur stage again on KL Thrashed 2011 alongside with bands from Thailand, Singapore, Brunei & Argentina.

July 2011, HEREAFTER successfully burned Singapore in Play Thrash Or Die 2. It's one of a hell-kind show where we all burn together in the heat. It will be a date to remember!!!

Oct 2011, METALPORN PRODUCTIONS (Mys) has released a 3 Way Split contaminated bands of HEREAFTER, HIDING FEAR & DEMONIFICATION. HEREAFTER tracks are re-record version of old songs.

Jan 2012, HEREAFTER has succesfully finished the goddamn recording session for its next release entitled 'Endcient'. Nothing change, its still the same thrash metal with futuristic sci-fi theme. Get ready to be abducted by the Evil Machines on 1st of March 2012!! Surrender you bastards or shall die, We have control of this land!!!!!

A long hellish-year to go, more shits will be updated by time to time!! Fuck you! 


---------------------------------------------------------

2) After two years, two home towns and numerous tours young hardcore band HEREAFTER have gained attention without losing local respect.

Hailing from Toowoomba where they shared the stage with Parkway Drive, Comeback Kid & Carpathian, Hereafter moved to Brisbane in 2008 where they secured support slots with Deez Nuts, Verse & Confession. Refusing to become complacent with such substantial success for a relatively young band, Hereafter completed their first national tour by mid-year, and to mark the release of their debut EP “Screaming From The Streets”, had kicked off their first headlining tour of SE Asia the following December. Hereafter returned in 09 to support the renowned metal act Misery Signals on their tour of the same continent. 

3) h e r e a f t e r. is an instrumental, post-rock solo project from Pennsylvania.
https://hereafterpa.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hereafter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.