1) Heritage is a heavy rock band from Greece. In 2009 they released a full length album titled "Herencia (On the Road)".
http://www.myspace.com/heritagegr

2) (2013 - 2018) Heritage are a metalcore/hardcore band from Manchester, England. After releasing their debut single "Memento Mori", the band picked up a decent following and recognition from touring with such bands as Black Tongue. At the end of 2014, the band released their highly anticipated second single -- 'AWAKE' with the new unclean vocalist through We Are Triumphant. The bands highly anticipated debut EP, Apathetic Youth was released in September 2015. In April 2018, the band released 'Born Again(st)', the first single from their upcoming EP titled 'World Weary'. on 13th July 2018, the band released their EP out of nowhere, as well as announcing their breakup.

3) Hailing from Newmarket, Ontario, Heritage is a six piece metalcore band that has been t-baggin’ across the province since early 2009. Their combination of hard-hitting breakdowns and melodic riffs has gained the respect and support of fans of all genres. Having shared the stage with such well-established bands in the Metal and Hardcore scene, Heritage shows no signs of slowing down. Their highly anticipated self-titled EP is to be released September 2010, and will surely live up to its expectations. After the release, Heritage will be spending some much needed time on the road bringing their music to new cities. Catch them at a show near you! 

4) Heritage is an emo / post-hardcore band from Newport/ Middletown, Rhode Island. Their songs are melodic, with driving riffs that display the raw emotion that can be found inside of their lyrics.They have recently released a 6 song EP entitled "The Letting Go Of..." http://heritage.bandcamp.com

5) HERITAGE was a cultured NWoBHM era band. In 1985 the Johnson brothers teamed up with ex-MICHAEL SCHENKER GROUP vocalist Gary Barden to form the early incarnation of STATETROOPER. Paul 'Fasker' Johnson later teamed up with SAXON and would eventually be reunited with his brother Steve in USI.

6) Heritage is a stoner rock/metal band from Arta, Greece. Heritage was formed in November 2006 by Kostas, Dimos & Bill. After a few rehearsals we found our own sound & personal heavy rock style. Finally at March 2007 we wrote our first demo "One more for the road". After a few live performances with some great Greek bands, Heritage is ready to get in studio to record our first full length album.Recently Heritage signed in TSM/SLW Promotions to promote our music in the UK.Also our quest for the lead guitar player position has come to an end.After many auditions with many guitar players we finally found our man and Heritage is ready to rock as a four member band from now on. The band gives live shows & kicks asses all around Greece & if you want to find out what we mean come to see the BAND live...

7)  A project of Attack band members, but no hatecore this time, rather dark rock.

8) Heritage is formed of musicians from a number of different musical backgrounds, each having their own musical influences which attribute to the overall sound. 

Ethan the vocalist and main lyricist, has been in bands since he was in his late teens. Playing with some amazing Australian names over the years. His latest band was the Melbourne metalcore band; A Sleepless Winter. Coming from metalcore and deathcore backgrounds, Ethan pulls influences from bands like The Devil Wears Prada, Bleeding Through, The Plot in You, Thy Art is Murder, Chelsea Grin and various other artists and lyricists. With his strong low and mid range vocals and unique highs attributing to the bands diversity from riffs and driving breakdowns to melodic bridges.

Andre, one of the guitarists has been in bands since the age of 13. His latest band was Said The Virgin, a young Melbourne post-hardcore band. Coming from a majorly progressive and pop punk background, he brings a slight twist to the sound with his upbeat melodies and atmospheric interludes. He draws his main influences from bands such as Deftones, The Plot In You, Bring Me The Horizon, Blink 182, All Time Low and The Ghost Inside. One of two main songwriters in the band, utilising crushing breakdowns and soaring melodies, his sometimes quite experimental ideas and passages add to the band's ever-growing sound.

John, the other guitarist has been playing since he was 14. Like Ethan, he was also a member of Melbourne metalcore band A Sleepless Winter. Playing through styles from jazz to death metal regularly, he brings a different approach to playing and songwriting. He draws his main inspiration from bands such as The Devil Wears Prada, Periphery, Thy Art Is Murder and Killswitch Engage. Being one of the main songwriters, his heavy, groove driven riffs and melodic leads finish off the bands sound.

Shane, the drummer of the band and one of the lyricists has been playing drums since 2004. He joined Heritage coming straight out of his old band 'Foundations Fall". Shane's drumming was inspired by Travis Barker, but then later influenced by bands such as Bring Me The Horizon, Northlane, House vs Hurricane and Woe, Is Me. His trademark sound has changed since leaving Foundations Fall, and has introduced this new sound to create something that people haven't heard him create.

Jacob, the bassist is the most recent addition to Heritage, he takes his main influences from bands such as Bring Me The Horizon, The Amity Affliction, Blink 182 and A Day To Remember. Jacob started off playing piano at age 11, soon after he progressed on to guitar and soon bass. Jacob has had previous live and recording experience in local bands such as We, The Rationalists and Room Sixteen, his style utilises driving rhythm and punchy low end to drive Heritage's chunky breakdowns.

9) Heritage is a thrash metal band from São Paulo, Brazil, formed in 2016. Their debut album "Ominous Ritus" was released in 2017 via Kill Again Records. https://www.facebook.com/heritagethrashmetal <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heritage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.