Formed originally as a harsh industrial duo comprised of Sokaris and Dodd, Heritech has evolved into a monolithic amalgamation of extreme music. Taking a broad smattering of metal genres and drenching them in electronics-laced symphonic atmospheres provides the foundation on which an avant-garde approach to songwriting and arrangement is executed. 

Putting forth “Xenopathic Biocide” [Feb. 07] was the group’s first step towards their creative conquest. Issued as a blood splattered CD-R and featuring six tracks of electronic mayhem heavily influenced by the death and black metal genres, the songs hinted at a future wasteland corrupted by death and disease and a totalitarian system behind it all. The release was mainly distributed by hand and the run of 100 copies quickly sold out. Industrialized Metal recently named the disc as one of its Top 10 Albums of 2007, beating out releases from many label veterans. 

Guitarist Morder, a guest on Xenopathic Biocide’s title track became a full member and the band began looking into transferring their sound to live performance. The shows guided the songs as Heritech began evolving towards a sound that was heavier, more dynamic and more dramatic. The songs were rewritten to include brutal guitar riffing and over-the-top symphonic melodies alongside the electronic elements. 

The band’s next endeavor was to focus this new sound into a 20 minute musical composition entitled “Prophecy: The Apocalypse Enigma.” Divided into six tracks and four parts, Heritech’s second release explores the origin of the bleak futuristic world introduced with “Xenopathic Biocide” through a narrative approach in both the lyrics and the music. Becoming a four piece with the addition of another guitarist in Sage, Heritech was able to enhance their music with an even greater range of riffing and harmony. This lineup began 2008 with a support slot for one of Heritech’s main inspirations, Canadian avant-garde metallers Unexpect. The four-piece debuted “Prophecy: The Apocalypse Enigma” in its entirety alongside revamped older tracks. The show would provide a peak at things to come as immortalizing “Prophecy” onto plastic became first priority. 


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HeritecH">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.