There is more than one artist with this name: a British folk band founded in 1967, an instrumental collective hailing from Northwestern Pennsylvania, a hip-hop/rap artist from NYC, and a black metal band from Raleigh, North Carolina.

1)  Heron is a British folk band founded in 1967, which released two albums and two singles on the Dawn label from 1970 to 1972.  Both albums were recorded outside. The first - self-titled - album was recorded in a field by the river Thames; the second was a double album, which they recorded outside a Devon country  cottage. This album shows a greater variety of musical styles compared to the debut album.
But still the acoustic folk-style is dominant, mixed with some more rocking tunes. 

The original line up consisted of Roy Apps, G.T. Moore, Tony Pook, and Steve Jones. After the two albums, some members of Heron went to work with Shusha.  Moore was also busy recording and touring with a band called G.T. Moore and the Reggae Guitars, which split up in 1977. Later in 1983 a cassette called Open Up the Road was released, and shortly afterwards Moore left. But the band kept going, playing gigs with Terry Clarke and Big Tom Robinson. Eventually in 2005 Gerry Power joined, and they recorded a full new album called Black Dog. This album was once again recorded outdoors at the Black Dog cottage in Devon.

In 2006 Universal released a two-CD anthology, including seven previously unreleased recordings that were made for Dawn. Finally in 2010 the original line up got back together to record a new album for the Japanese record label 'arm'. The album was released in 2011, and was called Simple As One Two Three.

2) Heron is an instrumental collective hailing from Northwestern Pennsylvania. Their transcendent sound blends resonant, melodic elements with darker and more ambient tones. Evident in the band’s rich and swelling expression is their passion for authenticity, goodness, and beauty, and their love for the wild outdoors. 

https://heronband.bandcamp.com/
https://www.facebook.com/weareheron

3) Heron is a hip-hop/rap artist from NYC.

4) Heron is a black metal band from Raleigh, North Carolina with tinges in progressive and doom.

Created in the Fall of 2012, Heron became a vessel for trying to recreate the atmosphere one feels when faced with the formless misanthropy of depression amidst the tranquility of surrounding flora and fauna. It is this duality created from the raw bleakness of modern existence and the consoling environment we are steadily losing touch with that inspires our music.

http://heronmetal.bandcamp.com/

5) Heron is a metal band from Vancouver BC, mostly known as a sludge/doom metal band. Their double guitars create a sound that reaches new depths of consciousness. The drumming is an art most accurately described as sludge-in-your-face metal. The vocals exchange between guttural and screeching to add the finishing touches to an inventive, unique west coast creation.
https://heronsludge.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.