1992-1996: Hesperus was a member of the Marchigian black metal band Sulphuria; he was then known as Ritus Tenebrarum (bass and backing vocals). Sulphuria was a three-man band which released a rehearsal demo and three other demos (two with Ritus Tenebrarum); one of their songs appeared on a compilation.
1993: “Funeral Nation”, rehearsal demo
1995: “Ad jacendum sub fluminis infernalis”, demo
1996: “Caelum sanguineum”, demo with Italic vocals (1,200 copies sold; good reviews)
1997: Sulphuria released the third demo “Nera Celebrazione Elettrica”; one of the songs was included on the compilation “Volume I of the Norwegian Compilation Asgardreien”; on the same CD there were songs by artists like Horna, Dornenreich, Frostmoon,... Sulphuria was the only Italic band on the release.

1996-1997: Hesperus leaves Sulphuria to realize his ideas of a conceptual one-man band dealing with more epic and introspective elements. The project came to life as Hesperia, ancient name of the Italic and Western European lands. Hesperus, in Greek mythology, was the ancient king who reigned on these lands (see Scriptum at www.hesperianlands.tk for more information). At the beginning, the music created by Hesperia was sort of a black metal with epic and folk elements and lyrics.
In 1997 a very raw rehearsal demo was recorded: “The return of an archaic civilization”, printed in very few copies.



After this, Hesperia decided not to limit itself with a restrictive type of music, and to include every kind of influence from different fields: literature, cinema, history, mythology, folklore,...
Hence ambient, theatrical, and progressive elements were included, leaving the rawest side untouched, a fundamental point to create an evocative and charismatic sound, distant in time and space, rich in Italic cultural elements and called METALLVM ITALICVM or Hesperian Metal (HM, archaic Italic metal).
Hesperia became a very long and complex concept, divided in three Compendiums: the Historical, the Old Hesperian, and the New Hesperian (see Hesperia's Scriptum).

1998-2001: in 1998 Hesperus, with a four-track analogic recorder, began the recording of the first part, of the first volume, of the first compendium: it was called “Aeneidos Metalliapotheosis part I” and it had Italic vocals, and some Latin ones as well. It was inspired by Virgil's “Aeneid”, and aims to describe the origins of the Italic history through mythology.
The recording took two years, and was made in three different caverns on the eastern shores of the Italic lands (in the region of Marche, on the Adriatic coast near the Sibillian mounts, the mounts of Sibilla, where Hesperus lives, near the ancient Roman ruins of Helvia Ricina).
The mix and the mastering was finished in november 2001 at Patchworks dungeon.
The instruments chosen for "Aeneidos…" were basses (4 to 8), octaved basses, bass effects instead of guitars , so in that first part there are no guitars and no keyboards; but the instruments will change on every cd.

2002-2003: “Aeneidos Metalliapotheosis part I” was released in a deluxe jewel box. The 200 copies of this cult product were completely sold out in a very short time.
This first part is a concept album based on the books I and II of the “Aeneid”, the Roman poem about the mythological origin of Rome.



2003: “Aeneidos Metalliapotheosis” was reprinted by Il Male Production, in a paperboard sleeve package, limited to 50 copies. The bonus track of the album also appeared on the “I Fiori del Male” compilation, released by Il Male Production.
An association called Civiltà Crepuscolare della Seconda Era was founded, and is today known as Civiltà Hesperiana www.hesperiana.org)

2004: the album “Il Ritorno di una Civiltà Arcaica” was released. It's based on the old 1997 demo, completely re-recorded in various places on the Sibillian Mountains, and re-produced.



A very rare single taken from the 2004 album was released with a bonus videoclip.



A song appeared on the compilation “I Fiori del Male II” by Il Male Productions.

2005: “Aeneidos Metalliapotheosis part I” was reprinted for the third time by Forart (www.forart.eu).

2006: Hesperus appeared as a guest on the TV show “Extreme Metal” on Rock TV, and presented his second videoclip “Il Ritorno di una Civiltà Arcaica”.
2007: A promo version of “In Honorem Herois – Aeneidos Metalliapotheosis part II” was released. A website to support the Italic scene was created: Scena Italica
www.scena-italica.org) This album is a concept album based on the books III to V of the “Aeneid”, the Roman poem about the mythological origin of ROME.



2008: “In Honorem Herois – Aeneidos Metalliapotheosis part II” was officially released in a jewel box with a booklet, by Blazing Productions
http://www.blazing.ws



Official MySpace: http://www.myspace.com/hesperiaofficial <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hesperia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.