Hetera is Melodic Black Metal (2004 - 2007) / MetalCore (2007 - ) band from Belgrade, Serbia.

The band was formed in the end of the year 2000., in Belgrade, Serbia. Back then, they went under the name Spirit of Destruction, and they played a kind of metalised HC/Punk. Under this name, the band drifts out of the demo waters and in 2002., appears on a "Best Demo Bands" compilation hosted by Belgrade's radio station - "202", with many other bands, of which some have already had succes in this particular area of musical achievements. The members were: Boris Sumrak (vocals), Marko Lazic (guitars), Luka Jurashin (guitars), Ivan Stankovic (bass), Djordjo Vujichic (drums). In 2003., Urosh Markovic joins the band ..boards, and the band changes name to "Hetera". In the spring, 2004., their first full-lenght release is out, by the name of "On The Other Side", which presents melodic/black/gothic genre. Finishing a tour hosted again by the Belgrade's radio station "202" and a show at the Belgrade's Republic Square, in 2004., the band begins working on their new release, named "Taida". The band is joined by Radosh Culibrk (clean vocals), and the drummer, Djordjo is replaced by Goran Kovachevic. Unlike its predecessor, "Taida" presents a much more modern melodic/black sound in their native language, Serbian. After a show at the EXIT festival, in 2006., the band suffers major reconstruction. Urosh Markovic, Boris Sumrak and Goran Kovachevic leave the band and Radosh Culibrk gets expelled. In their place come Dobroslav Slijepchevic (keys - also a member of "Apocalypse"), Aleksandar Vucetic (vocals), Andrej Mishic (drums - "Esgaroth", "Nightfall"). This new band performs at the EXIT FEST once again, in 2007. Also, their first promo of their new material is recorded under the name, "Issues". The genre Hetera is performing in now, is industrial/modern metal.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hetera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.