Heterodox ~ Hawkes Bay, New Zealand
Heavy Doom/ Psych/ Sludge/ Alt/ Stoner Metal
Facebook
Current Members:
Luke Burns - Guitar, Vocals
Floyd Pepper - Bass, Vocals
Jared Green - Drums

Heterodox originally started out as a ferocious Thrash Metal band in early 2010, brought to life by Luke Burns (Gat/Vox), Floyd Pepper (Bass/Vox), Matt Flower (Gat/Vox) and Richmond Palleson (Drums). The initial idea was to play fast, heavy grooves and also to eliminate having a 'frontman', as such, by having Luke, Floyd and Matt all sing v
arious lines and sections. Richmond was replaced not long after by Dylan Lange, and soon after Matt decided to leave the band. And thus the 3-piece came together.

2011 saw the band doing a handful of local gigs around Hawkes Bay whilst recording a VERY rough E.P in Lukes bedroom to showcase the new bands ability to play. The self-titled E.P was released in July 2011 and was limited to a short-run of copies.

In September 2011 Dylan quit the band, after deciding playing live wasn't what he wanted to do, so Heterodox were now on the hunt for someone to could fill the void. The call for a drummer wasn't answered until May 2012 when Heterodox got hold of Jared Green.

Meanwhile..
During the time that Heterodox were drummer-less Luke and Floyd went into local studio 'HIT YOUR HEAD MUSIC' in November 2011 to re-record 'Till The Road Takes Its Toll', which first appeared on their debut E.P.
Armed with Alec Withers taking care of drum duties, an epic single emerged. 'Till The Road..' was released in January 2012 and has recieved airplay on NZ Radio shows such as 'Axe Attack'.
The boys were getting eager to play live again so they started to play acoustic shows and even recorded a 4-track acoustic E.P (unreleased).

Heterodox are currently recording demo's that may be used for a full length album in 2013, as well as getting back on stage showcasing their new sludge-driven tunes.  Full length album 'Elixir of Lethe' released on June 27, 2014 on CD and in digital format at Bandcamp.

Previous Members:
Dylan Lange - Drums
Matt Flower - Guitar
Richmond Palleson - Drums

Discography:
Heterodox EP (EP, 2011 Self-Released)
Till The Road Takes Its Toll (Single, 2012 Hit Your Head Music)
Elixir of Lethe (LP, 2014) Available at Bandcamp
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Heterodox">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.