Hetroertzen is a Black Metal band formed in Chile, now located in Västerås, Sweden that was created back in 1997 by Frater D. as his solo studio project. Even though, it was initially a solo project, Frater D. decided to make a band of it and thus Åskväder joined as a guitarist in September of 1999. During their first ten years of existence, a couple of albums were recorded and a handful of gigs were performed in their homeland of Chile. Various line-up changes occurred as well. 
 
The band had a brief hiatus for various reasons, but in 2009 after resurfacing in Sweden and the city of Västerås, Hetroertzen's first proclaimed full length album ‘Exaltation of Wisdom’, was recorded at the bands own studio. The line-up was then Frater D. on drums, bass and vocals and Åskväder on guitars. 
‘Exaltation of Wisdom’ was at first released on LP by Lamech Records and was limited to 500 blood-numbered copies. In November 2011 the group performed ‘Exaltation of Wisdom’ in its entirety in their most important performance thus far; a rather special event called ‘Arosian Black Mass’, where the band received highly positive critique from attendants. The band had the help from Kfzl on bass and Garghuf on drums. After their live debut at ‘Arosian Black Mass’, some line-up changes occured, and Anubis gets involved in the band as guitarist. Later on, Methuselah joins as live bassist and Lazarus as live drummer.
 
At the beginning of 2012 Frater D., Åskväder and Anubis went on to record new material for what would be used for a split album together with Norwegian devotees Dødsengel.  The split, under the title Capax Infiniti, gained much regard in terms of acceptance from the audience from all around the world, as well as in terms of sales.
In October 2013 the band went out on their first ever tour, alongside black metal legends Troll and Dødheimsgard. The tour was a success for the band and they won over countless new fans from all around Europe.
During 2014 Hetroertzen recorded material for a new full length album which allowed them to stretch the boundaries of their already unique sound. Ain Soph Aur saw the light in December 2014 receiving a great response from the devotees and the media. Ain Soph Aur was released on all format by the collaboration of Lamech Records, Terratur Possessions and Amor Fati Productions.
 
At the beginning of 2015 Methuselah leaves the band due to personal reasons and is replaced by Ham, who is welcomed as a permanent bass player. He debuted with the band at Kings of Black Metal 2015.
In the fall of 2015 Hetroertzen conquered USA for the first time and performed two very exclusive shows in New York and Baltimore along with Ominous Resurrection and their brethren LvxCaelis.
Also in 2015 the band confirmed to do a one week tour in October along with French devotees Malhkebre and Malepeste. The tour baptised as Exaltation, Revelation, Dereliction tour reached different cities around France, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Some weeks before the tour began, live drummer Lazarus leaves the band, putting Hetroertzen in the challenging situation to make drastic line-up changes. Because of this, Frater D. took over the drums and Anubis handled vocal and guitar duties. With this constellation, the band debuted at the French festival Black Arts Ceremony IV and continued on for the rest of the tour receiving a phenomenal feedback and support from all attendees. Due to the extraordinary energies created with this constellation, Hetroertzen decides to continue as a four piece.
 
Hetroertzen has not only been busy with hand-picked shows around Europe, but also composing new material for a new album that is scheduled to be out in 2016.


Discography
"Flying Across the Misty Gardens": Full-length, 2002
"A Crimson Terrible Vision":  Full-length, 2003
"Rex Averno":  Full-length, 2005
"Exaltation of Wisdom": Full-length, 2010
"Capax Infiniti": Split, 2014
"Ain Soph Aur": Full-lenght, 2014 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hetroertzen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.