Hiatus Kaiyote are a 4-piece independent future soul group based in Melbourne, performing on occasion with 3 additional backing singers.

Their sound is a fusion of future beats, hip-hop and soul with subtler influences of Latin, dubstep and opera. 

Since forming in mid 2011, Hiatus Kaiyote have already shared the bill with such acts as Stones Throw Record’s Taylor McFerrin, Warp legends Chris Clark and Harmonic 313 and sound genius Robin Fox, Brainfeeder’s Lapalux and oOoOO as well as playing bills at Woodford Folk Festival, Melbourne International Jazz Festival and headlined at stage at the final The Bohemian Masquerade Ball.

Hiatus Kaiyote's chief songwriter is Nai Palm, who pens intricate compositions, rich with colour and mystery. With her unique honey-velvet voice, she is supported by three of Melbourne's finest and most versatile musician/producers. Keyboardist Simon Mavin, who has graced the stage with such bands such as Australia’s premier soul outfit The Bamboos, rock jazz freakout crew Whitesploitation, reggae masters The Red Eyes and funk heavyweights The Firemen. Paul Bender on bass, laptop and guitar is a graduate of Miami Florida's indie, experimental and improvised music scenes, but with a passion for stank-funk basslines. Drummer Perrin Moss is a powerhouse of beats both jilted and slick and an experienced MC, producer, percussionist and turntabilist and is the former frontman of ten piece Blue Mountains hip-hop band Jumbledat, Perrin has collaborated with other crews such as Thundamentals.

In their short time as a band they have fused a unique sound held together by Nai Palm's smoke drenched vocals and innovative melodies, Simon Mavin’s hands on knowledge of synthesizers, keyboards, Latin and jazz structures, Perrin Moss's slippery drum beats and soul clap rhythms and Paul Benders waterfall thumbs of bass guitar and sample wizardry.

Their first residency, held on Tuesdays at The Evelyn Hotel in Fitzroy Melbourne was extended from 4 weeks to four months due to popular demand. They sold out The Northcote Social Club for their EP launch (April 5th 2012) and received strong turnouts at Black Bear Lodge in Brisbane and Goodgod Small Club in Sydney as part of their debut tour in aid of the release.

Nai Palm - vocals, guitar, keys
Perrin Moss - drums, percussion, electronics
Paul Bender - bass, electronics
Simon Mavin - keys, synths, electronics

http://hiatuskaiyote.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hiatus+Kaiyote">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.