Hideous Mangleus was (de)formed in March of '89. When three friends; Sam Biles, (Jason) Feev(ey) and Joel Bonde; who had formed an earlier band a year or two ealier rejoined forces. After a quick line-up change or two they finalized their outfit with Joel's brother Curt (Bonde) on  drums.

After about a year together they released their "All Your Friends are Dead" demo in early '90. And soon followed this release with the "We Live'''You Sleep" Ep and then the "Unearthing Grandma's Grave" Ep, both of which are viewed as early classics for the grindcore genre.

From '89 to about '92 Hideous played several shows mostly local, but then sometime in '92/'93 basically went into a coma for about two years due to collage, moving, etc.

Then in '95 they started practicing and writing again and went into the studio to record their full-length CD, borrowing their earlier demo title "All Your friends are dead". This release like their "Unearthing..." Ep were released by Matthias Weigand and Ecocentric Records, who would later release Sam's later band "Goblin", but that is another story.

After the release of the AYFAD CD, Hideous once again went into a coma again due to the various problems that usually haunt underground bands, like having to work for a living and moving, etc.

In 2000 and 2001, they did attempt to get songs together to record a follow up to the "...friends" CD on Repulse Recs. Spain, but nothing ever came of this.

In the years after this, fans often ask these pioneers of  Horror Grind, who followed a path set down by such greats as Repulsion and Terrorizer, to reunite but due to various personal issues this has not been possible, and at this time our best bet at hearing these songs live was/is either via Sam's various outfits (Goblin, Nest, etc) or MorgueMart, which is home to three of the original HM crew.

For more info or contact with Hideous mangleus goto www.hideousmangleus.com or www.morguemart.com .  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hideous+Mangleus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.