Eclectic Chicago producer Jamal Moss. Also records as The Sun God and IAMTHATIAM.  Jamal is also a member of the following groups: Africans With Mainframes, Chicago Bad Boys, and I.B.M. (together with Steve Poindexter) and produced with collective The Dirty Criminals.

Jamal Moss' tracks recall a sort of wild experimentation, following his mentors: Chicago legends Adonis and Steve Poindexter, who are also involved in Moss' Chicago Based Label Mathematics Recordings. As its A&R, Jamal Moss dedicates himself to his search for rather unkown underground artists creating raw sound-sculpting  - more or less - house sounds. About the label, he sais:
"Mathematics is the body of sound knowledge centered on such concepts as quantity, music, structure, space, and change – and also the academic discipline that studies them. Mathematics is the first stage of this concept on the academic disciplines of classic house, rhythmic noise, industrial jazz, acid house, ragtime electronics, new age, ambient and classical structures."

Jamal Moss has long been a part of the Chicago house/techno scene as both a producer and DJ. Moss’s first creative endeavors were as part of a crew that created industrial soundscapes for the Liquid Love parties at the famed Powerplant in Chicago from 1989-90. When the Powerplant was closed, Moss and his cohorts started Liquid Sex, which became a magnet for many well-known house artists such as Steve Poindexter, who put Moss in touch with future collaborators the Chicago Bad Boys collective. From the Fall of 1993 - to the Summer of 1996 was Host/DJ for WNUR'S 89.3 StreetBeat Program Showcasing a segment named JACK-FM( Thank U Shaun Fahey ). He was also taken under the wing of house legend Adonis, who became a key mentor figure in Moss’s life. He is on of the last of the line of producers directly influenced by Ron Hardy at the Music Box, therefor he is uniquely qualified to write a new chapter of Chicago's Musical history.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hieroglyphic+Being">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.