1) The artist formerly known as KYNAN. 

Music at http://hghwnd.bandcamp.com


2) Highwind is a Pittsburgh garage/pop-punk/powerpop band influenced by bands like We Are Scientists, The Hives, Neutral Milk Hotel, Harvey Danger, The Strokes, and Brand New. They are a fairly new band, but have already made quite a splash in the Pittsburgh scene. In May, they recorded and released their first EP, "Last One Out, Hit The Lights". Recently, they added a bassist to the lineup to fill out their sound. Now, Highwind is ready to take on Pittsburgh full-force.

Their EP can be bought or downloaded at http://highwind.bandcamp.com/ 
More band info and contact info can be found at http://www.facebook.com/Highwindpgh
 

3) The band was formed in 2002 in Jelenia Gora (Poland). However, the current vocalist (Przemek) joined the group in October 2004. In 2005 highwind composed the majority of their songs, they also performed a few concerts and unaidedly managed to record DEMO CD. In June 2005 the band was forced to put a break on playing because of the absence of two players who were undergoing study internships abroad. Highwind reengaged in playing in March 2006, unfortunately without the bass player (Tomek) who had moved out to Warsaw. Michal (a former bass player of a jazz trio - Opus Pocus) became the new highwind's musician. 

Currently the band is working intensively, they create new songs and play a number of concerts every month. They have already taken part in a few festivals in their country (Student Rokk Festival - Wroclaw, FAMA - Wroclaw, Rock Bands' Review - Legnica) and in Germany (Stustaculum - Munich, 15Grad Rock an der Burcke - Goerlitz). Besides, they performed in various parts of their region (Od zmierzchu do Switu - Wroclaw, Juvenalia - Jelenia Gora, Neisse University - Goerlitz, pubs and musicalclubs in Jelenia Gora, Walbrzych, Swidnica...)

On the 9th of June they were qualified to the finals of "Jelenia Gora Rock League". They are still looking for a manager and someone who could publish and promote their music.

For more information visit highwind's website: www.highwind.pl
Or write to: info@highwind.pl <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Highwind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.