There are two artists with the name Highland. 

1. Highland is a dance/hip-hop group from Germany. Their music is recognizable for using Italian and sometimes Latin singing together with hip-hop beats and rapping in English. Band members are the singer Nicole Heiland and the rappers Dean "Dirty-D" Burke and Patrice "Lady Scar" Gansau. Their music is written and produced by Mike Michaels, Mark "MM" Dollar and Mark Tabak, known as the Triple-M crew, who are also behind the artists and bands such as Music Instructor, The Boyz and Ayman. Dean Burke has also worked with Music Instructor and Lunatics, as well as many other European artists, performers and singers.

Their first single, Bella Stella, was released in 1999 and became a hit. In 2000, they released the album of the same title and with three more singles, Se Tu Vuoi, Solo Tu and Veni Vidi Vici. All of these used the same formula, Italian singing mixed with hip hop and electronic music, proving that the trio were not just a one-hit-wonder.

In 2001, Highland also released the single Magic Fortuna, which was based on "O Fortuna", a movement from Carl Orff's Carmina Burana. The main difference between this song and the Bella Stella album was that it didn't feature Dean and Lady Scar, only Nicole, and the whole song was in Latin.

After 7 years of silence, in April 2008 the fans got a huge shock when the news of the new album "Dimmi Perché" was anounced. 10 new tracks, and 4 new versions of the old hits. The group now contains only Nicole and Dean, since Lady Scar is working on her own project. The songs "Figlia De La Luna", "Eternita" and/or "Cometa Magica" are concidered as some of the greatest eurorap songs ever by the people on euro-rap forums [which Dean is actually a member of], and of course - the fans!
Highland's older CDs are now somewhat hard to find but can be found online and in some parts of Europe.

2. HIGHLAND is a black metal act hailing from Los Angeles, CA. They formed in 2009, with Gevork Matevosyan on Vocals/Guitar, Narek Avetisian on Clean Vocals/Guitar, and Mike Semerdjian on Drums. 

They released a single titled "A Seed Once Spread" in 2009 and a self-titled EP in 2013 which includes the first part to their death metal trilogy. Their logo was designed by Christophe Szpajdel. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Highland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.