High Blood Pressure was formed in September 2004 when Anubis and Tom begin to play some non-bordered music. Two months later second guitarist Andrew joined the band. Next few months we were looking for full line-up. Ziggy the bassist joined in January 2005. For very short time Torvus wanted to be our vocalist, but he couldn't find a time to play with us. May 2005 was our first loose. Andrew left the band because of going abroad. From that moment we decided to make a step as a trio. Anubis took vocals and we began to play for real.
First big accent of High Blood Pressure was two concerts in March 2006 in our native town Bialystok. Next step was our first demo called simply "The Mo" released in October 2006.
Our 'hard to take' music didn't get a call from people, so we've decided to shot down and make some more material. In March 2007 full material was finished and we've tried to record it. Unfortunately whole thing was harder than we thought. Recording "The pression" began in May and finished in November... Ziggy didn't record his parts, so he is not a band member any more. Anubis took bass, guitars and vocal parts while Tom took drums.
When whole recording end Gustav joined the band and once more we were playing for real. So we've played concert in Bialystok and this time people saw a good music from our side. After that, we selected songs from "The pression", taking the essence of our style, and released it as our second demo called simply "The Pression Cut".
In the second half of year 2008 "The Pression Cut" was promoted in underground media. Material get many different reviews, from very positive to very negative. All at all our music, which had to be somehow called, was shortly named as thrash/death. After media promotion, time has come to play some concerts. Unfortunately we had many diuties instead of playing, so we played only in Lomża on January and at the lake near Rajgród for motorcycle fans on April. Then we decided to shot down in rehearsal room and compose a new material.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/High+Blood+Pressure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.