Band Members:
Dean Hudson – guitar,
Leona Marrs – keyboards,
Jason Lajeunesse – drums,
Peter Quirk – vocals,
Gabe Carter – bass guitar.
“ A spastic propulsion system guaranteeing that even if you don’t remember what it sounded like, you’ll remember what it felt like.”
Brian Howard – Magnet Magazine

“The Hint Hint philosophy seems to sprout not from angst or lust or poetry, but inexplicable, all-consuming paranoia. Vocalist Peter Quirk and Leona Marrs define Hint Hint via keyboard molestation, coaxing dog whistle drones against Jason Lajeunesse’s pile-driving drums and the ambient delay of Dean Hudson’s guitar”
Andrew Bonazelli – Seattle Weekly

“Quirk delivers lyrics like each line is a tortuous thought, wrestling them with the passion of someone fighting a lover’s quarrel. At times he doesn’t carry his tunes as much as he unravels them like heavy loads come undone, moving around in a clamor while punching out jerky keyboard melodies.”
Jennifer Maerz – Seattle Stranger

Hint Hint built a nearly instantaneous fan base in Seattle with consistently intense live performances and the release of their debut EP “Sex Is Everything” (Cold Crush Records). Recorded for nothing just two months after the band’s first show, “Sex Is Everything” was noted for its energy and lyrical content. In barely twenty minutes, Hint Hint painted a dark post-punk landscape tinged with desperate longing and a wholly convicted fervor.
 
Hint Hint’s first full-length, “Young Days” (Suicide Squeeze Records), expands upon that mood by combining elements of Lungfish, Wire, My Bloody Valentine, The Fall and Them with strong vocal character sitting atop propulsive rhythm, dark piano and atmospheric texture. The production of Zack Reinig (eng. The Black Heart Procession, eng. Blonde Redhead) and the recent addition of Gabe Carter on bass round things out, allowing “Young Days” to breathe with organic intensity and thick sonic resonance. In it’s span from angsty rock to pop melody to dark landscapes of sound, “Young Days” stand out as a milestone for a band on a continuing path of change.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hint+Hint">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.