There are three bands called Hipnosis:

1) Alternate spelling of Hypnosis, an Italo disco project from the 80s.

2)  HIPNOSIS is an underground punk band from Chile. 

3) A band born in Barcelona in 1998n with 5 albums, created by the Marcet Brothers. The two brothers used to record music on a 5-track tape recorder in a small loft on the outskirts of Barcelona city. Introduced as an electronic Pop band in early 2000’s with their early 2 albums (Vertigo, Hipnosis), the bassist & singer Pere Pérez  soon joined them to start the presentation tour, thus forming a musical trio that would remain together throughout the entire history of the band. Hipnosis changed their style in 2005 approximating their sound to Prog-Rock and Alternative Rock under the influences of Black Sabbath, Brian Eno, Gary Numan and many artists from 70s and 80s. Always keeping their original sound mixing rock guitars and dark synthesizers, specially in their mid 2000's  albums (Hipnosis on the Ghost Ship, 1984) moment when they took out  their best selling Pop smashes «Believe» and «1984», both songs were accompanied by video clips that were broadcast sporadically on Catalan television TV3 and other music channels.Their live concerts, their strongest point, have been celebrated for many different audiences in Barcelona’s clubs.Their lyrics (in English, Spanish and Catalan languages) are based on their social non-conformism, paranoia, media control, individual freedom, anarchy and History of minority peoples. Their strongest inspiration is based on British writer activist George Orwell. In 2015 they returned with a new line-up and a new album entirely recorded in Catalan language called "Àngels i dimonis" (Angels and Demons), under the tutelage of producer Domenech Latorre, who led them through a sound closer to the Pop-Rock of the moment, although without losing their alternative essence. Hipnosis was always under the shadow of mass media commercial music, but they resisted until the year 2018 when their original members stopped touring under this name and focused on other music productions in their big home studio in the countryside of Barcelona area.

Members: Numerous musicians have passed through Hypnosis, among which are the permanent members Aitor "Apolo" Marcet, Àlex Marcet and Pere Perez, as well as other temporary members such as Fèlix Lluch, David Carnicé, Xavi Canal, Marc Tió, Damià and their long time manager and friend Jordi Mas.

4) A heavy metal band from Cuba. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hipnosis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.