Driving, battering power. A perfect description of Hiss of Atrocities (HoA). Formed in Boston, Massachusetts in 2005, the fierce attack released on stage is an uncompromising blend of high powered drums, unrelenting guitars riffs and unprecedented guitar solos. Producing a sound fueled by high energy European metal and a dose of both heavy fierce vocals with melodic overtones that can only be described as an engaging experience live.

Formed by guitarist Roy Lev-Ari (Kenya) & drummer Giovanni Dürst (Italy) both hailing from Berklee College of Music the birth of HoA was conceived. Joined shortly there after by guitarist Francesco Artusato (Italy) a fellow student of Berklee, the band was primed and ready to begin the journey before them. HoA recorded their first self-titled demo and began playing live shows in the main Massachusetts area. One year later their second highly acclaimed EP “Threnody” produced by Jeremy Krull was released, and soon caught the attention of magazines and radios fueling the popularity of the band to a higher level. HoA began packing up venues with devoted fans in places such as the famous Paradise Club, Middle East, Avalon, The Palladium, Berklee College of Music, supporting acts such as Shadows Fall and Diecast. After completing studies and building a solid reputation in Boston, the band relocated to Los Angeles, California to begin to carve their way to the top of the scene. By March of 2008 HoA acquired singer Mike Zero (Los Angeles) joined forces to compose their debut album “Rituals of the Lost” released in February of 2009. “Rituals of the Lost” is a 55 minutes conceptual experience of high quality metal with progressive elements and a blend of brutal and emotional musical varieties. HoA has extensively performed in the Southern California area in the following venues: The Key Club, The Whiskey A Go Go, The Knitting Factory, Crash Mansion, The Jumping Turtle, Musician Institute and many more playing with acts such as Divine Heresy, Asesino, Ankla, Man Made Man, Flatline, Devolved, Aizen and Mantic Ritual.

The band commonly states ‘We strive to produce a live performance that is nothing short of an experience for the audience’. HoA is a band that stands apart from the norm and breaks the boundaries of the genre today. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hiss+Of+Atrocities">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.