Based in Oslo, Norway, this heavy metal band marked their return to the music scene in 2004 with the release of "Six Track Metal Attack". The demo, portraying a direct classic heavy metal style, received first-class reviews. It also provided Hjallarhorn with the opportunity for a seven-day German Tour co-headlining with The Shitheadz (now Motorjesus). Their energetic stage performance and charisma were recognized by both the audience and the local press with demands for their return. Back in Norway, Hjallarhorn has since played various gigs and venues, including Lloyd’s (Hønefoss), Muddy Waters (Oslo), Rock Bottom (Oslo), Alfred's (Hønefoss), Metal Slaughter Festival 05 & 06 (Sandvika), Mandatory Festival 05 (Oslo), Quart Festival 05 (Kristiansand), Oslo Parkteater, Club 3 (Asker) and Club Maiden (Oslo).

Musically, Hjallarhorn emphasises riff-based, melodic heavy metal. The music is not too disimilar to the golden era of the NWOBHM (New Wave Of British Heavy Metal) and the early Bay-Area thrash scene. It does, however, retain originality conveying the Hjallarhorn brand, and was labelled a necessity to the Norwegian music scene by Trond Marius Martinsen on Norway’s biggest Heavy Metal site – HeavyMetal.no.

The second demo "Trilogy of Lightning" (2006) took the fundamental musical concept of "Six Track Metal Attack" to the next level with even edgier guitars and a sound so raw it was riddled with E.coli. The reviews for this second outing were even more promising, with "Trilogy Of Lightning" crowned the second best independent release of 2006 by the North American radio station MetalNetRadio.

Hjallarhorn's latest recording entitled "NWOCHM" (New Wave Of Classic Heavy Metal) portrays a refined band with clear musical insight and integrity both in sound and direction. Whereas the first two releases succeeded in laying down a certain foundation, generating interest in the band and increasing awareness and popularity, NWOCHM is intended to take the music to the next level on the global market. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hjallarhorn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.