Emilio grew up in Milan where alongside his crew "Hertzquake" they managed to push dnb and became a big influence on the Milano music scene. Promoting parties with the likes of dj Hype, Andy C, Roni Size, Commix to name a few... This is when Hellraizer first got into the studio and it wasnt long before he was djing alongside some of the biggest names in dnb as a resident dj at Pergola.. 

Keen to push his sound hellraizer decided to move to London and right away he started working on a number of tracks...

In 2007 Hellraizer released the track "Lock" on Caution recs (uk) ''Lock'' generated good exposure for hellraizer on the London scene and later in 2007 HLZ followed by producing "Punchball". The track was played regularly by dj Hype and meant that Caution recs authorized HLZ to give the track to Digital, who wasted no time by signing HLZ for his first 12" on Timeless Recs ''Punchball/My Hero'' OUT NOW and getting massive support from the likes of dj Storm, Gridlok, Bassline Smith, Digital, dj Hype amoung others. His new track "Lunar fields" featured on 'Blu mar ten Ministry of sound Radio Show. 

Outside of the Studio HLZ dj's at some of the top spots around London and has become a regular crowd favourite for 'Flame' @ Herbal. HLZ's dj style of managing to play for the crowd wherever he is has lead to bookings across europe.. Still popular back in Italy, so much so he has been asked to dj at the upcoming Metalhead's show in Rome later this year.He has upcoming tunes on 36 hertz recs,nu massive dj Vapour label, 31 records(doc scott label), influenza ltd(nu fresh deep french label), sonorous music and caution recorrdings.His tracks are getting support of Vapour, dj Storm, Goldie , Doc Scott, Ed Rush,Randall,Mosus,Bryan Gee, Resound and many more.At the moment he's even doing some collabs with Kiat and Mosus. Hellraizer is going from strength to strength both in the Studio and behind the decks so be sure to see even more of him during 2009... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/HLZ">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.