There are multiple artists named "Hoax" ;

1) HOAX is an indie pop-rock band from Queens, New York. It is the musical brain child of Michael Raj and Frantz Cesar, who create the sonics and concepts behind their self-described style of “empathy pop” music. Their modern vintage musical sound draws from a wide range of influences like 60’s surf pop, 70’s Motown, and alternative R&B. They like to see themselves as “the beautiful sound of sadness”, a description coined by a close friend. Their music thematically focuses on the human condition, explorations of social constructs, and the decisions people make based from them, all tucked underneath pop melodies.

2) HOAX is a hardcore punk band from Western Massachusetts. The band released their demo, which was recorded by Will Killingsworth at Dead Air Studios in 2010. Their debut 7" was released on Deranged and Katorga Works. Members were previously in Aerosols and SQRM.

3) One artist using the Hoax alias is Julian Cox, Drum & Bass artist from the UK. Prolific in the ’90s on Rob Playford’s Moving Shadow label and sub label Audio Couture.

4) Hoax (former names; Shifta, Genetix, Dj tron) is a 26 year old Electronic  music producer and DJ hailing from Bournemouth on the south coast of England, who has been producing electronic music now for over a decade.
His sound is a combination of many elements: From Minimal, ambient soundscapes and sound design, to big basslines and heavyweight dance floor grooves.
He studied classically from the age of 11, playing percussion, violin, piano and guitar, but it wasn't until later on that he discovered his passion for electronic music and developed his love for live sound engineering and studio production methods. 
His first digital release was back in 2008 on Instabil Records and since then has had a constant stream of EP's released on Dubstep, Minimal Techno, Drum and Bass and Ambient labels such as Hed:Remote, Apparition Recordings, Minimal and Melodies Music and Hidden Hawaii. 
His The Heathlands EP released on Gergaz Netlabel is available as a FREE download 

5) Hoax was a German Screamo band, which existed from 2001 until 2005. They formed as a fun punk project but soon turned more progressive. They released their first 8 track-EP “Cell the Kids” in 2004. Shortly before their recordings for the second album, they split up because of internal discrepancies. The members quickly gained ground again and founded the bands Abe Kamui and Nausea.

6) Also a French metal band that released three albums between 1991 and 1995. One of their guitar player, Laurent B., also played in Treponem Pal. Every Prong fan should give a try to their last album, Brainstorm At Dawn (released in 1995). Their singer Eric Fontaine later joined the French punk rock band Burning Heads.

7) Another Hoax is Malko Van den Borre. He was born in 1989 and started playing drum ‘n bass in 2005. Because of he’s love for drum ‘n bass he learnt quick and nowadays he has already made lots of mixes and showed em live to quite some crowds. He also did a live performance with Mc Mindless. Because of his growing success he certainly has a future in drum ‘n bass.
-Levi Vervaet

8) Hoax is a political Pop Punk band from Cape town, South Africa

9) Hoax is a female rap duo from Estonia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hoax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.