There are, at least nine, artists by this name: 1) Hungarian singer, songwriter & actor (aka Földes László), performing solo since, at least, 1986. 2) A California rapper (aka Hobo the Ghetto Bastard & Big HB. 3) A Canadian minimal techno artist (aka Joel Boychuk), solo as Hobo since early 2008. 4) A Yugoslavian progressive rock band (1972-75). 5) An Italian reggae singer. 6) A Berkeley pop rock band (1991-92). 7) A Detroit techno artist. 8) A Corpus Christi, TX country & blues band (2008-Present). 9) A Tolyatti, Russia lo-bit blues outfit (2009-present).

1) A songwriter since 1968 - in 1978, Földes László formed Hobo Blues Band. Starting from 1986, when he translates Allen Ginsberg's Howl to Hungarian and sets it to music, he starts a long series of solo performances alongside Hobo Blues Band releases. Földes' solo discography comprises about sixteen albums, most being performances of various poets' works - translated to Hungarian - set to music. These include works of Allen Ginsberg, Jim Morrison, Vladimir Vysotsky and others. He also has several blues albums. Official site: Hobo.Hu

2) Big HB started in the rap game in the late 80s. He released his debut album entitled, "City by tha Sea" (2003, At-Last V.I.P Entertainment), an independent label based out of Long Beach, CA. His debut album made number 14 on the Music Review U.I.M.R.A top 25 charts. He also received an overall album rating: of 3.5 / 5 from dubcnn.com. Official site: http://mySpace.com/HoboRap

3) A Sarnia, Canada minimal techno artist (aka Joel Boychuk), influenced by Kraftwerk, Jeff Mills, Juan Atkins & Plastikman. Joel started laptop jam sessions with Adam Young after high school and the pair gradually evolved into Tractile.

After spending an intensive thirteen months touring Europe, Joel felt that the travelling was disrupting the collaborative process. Soon after, he returned home to work solo. The solo identity / alter-ego, Hobo, came about in a yurt, deep in Pinery Provincial Park - where he spent a week, in the winter, writing his new EP From A to B. He admits that there’s more emotion in this new body of work, a more vivid sense of life brought about by his close proximity to nature, whilst recording. A process he intends to recreate, at inspiring locations around the world - hence 'hobo'.

4) A band formed by keyboardist Mato Dosen in Zagreb 1972. The line-up also included Sasa Cavric-bass, Josip Belamaric-el. violin, Boris Trubic-percussion, vocal and Mladen Garasic-drums. They appeared at Ljubljana BOOM Festival 1974 and played as a support group at Deep Purple concert in Zagreb 1975. The same year they recorded their only one, eponymous album. Due to lack of commercial success, Dosen soon disbanded the group, and went on to become a successful pop producer and composer.

5) An Italian reggae singer. Official site: www.Hobo.it

6) A four piece pop rock band, who recorded in Berkeley, California in 1991 & '92. Producer Matthew King Kaufman (of Beserkley Records fame), produced the record while on hiatus from trainspotting in Siberia. Singer / guitarist Eric Din, singer / keyboardist Paul Jackson & bassist / motorcyclist Ben Eastwood, continue to play together, in the popular ska band, The Uptones. 

7) A Detroit, MI USA techo artist (currently, signed to Minus).

8) Emerging into the world as talented musicians was, at first, difficult for the members of Hobo. Finally, the planets and stars aligned perfectly and they each discovered the others. Fusing together their each individual personalities and musical tastes they form the phenomenon now known as Hobo. Together, they are able to get up in front of an audience and make them laugh, cry, and listen to the musical wonder that is Hobo. 
http://www.myspace.com/texashobo
Band Members:Rev. Fred (lead vocals, dobro & kazoo)---Richard (bass)---Gil (drums)---Nate (electric guitar and vocals)

9) Hobo is the band name for Vitaliy Syresenkov's one-man low-bitrate blues band. His album, Working Man's Blues, was recorded in Tolyatt, Russia in 2009 and released by Microbit Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hobo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.