The band was formed in the city of Erechim, interior of Rio Grande do Sul, in August 2008 by Stéfanie Schirmbeck (vocals) and Cristiano Reis (drums). The two started composing in 2006 - later this material would be part of the band..s debut album.

The major differential of Holiness are the compositions that always begin with beautiful melodies sustained only by acoustic guitar and voice. Today the complete line up counts with Fabrício Reis (guitar), Hércules Moreira (bass).

After a somewhat unpretentious beginning, in August 2008 the band began to take shape with Aquiles Priester's visit to Erechim, when Cristiano and Stéfanie decided to invite the drummer to produce the band.

The songs began to take shape with the aid of Fabrício and the trio recorded a demo for Aquiles and waited for his approval to work with the band. After the drummer's OK, the band invited Hércules to complete the team and begin the pre-production and recording of the CD.

Holiness tries to combine a softer vocal with more aggressive instrumentals and the lyrics are usually about every day themes that refer to existential matters and interior reflections.

The debut album, Beneath The Surface, counted with Adair Daufembach as sound technician. The drums were recorded at Daufembach studios in Criciúma (SC) and a mobile recording unit was sent to Erechim to accomplish the remaining recordings.

Once this stage was concluded, the album was mixed and mastered at studio Area 51 in Celle (Germany) by American producer Tommy Newton and also counted with the participation of keyboard player Fábio Laguna of Hangar.

Even without have the CD released yet, Holiness is already pointed as one of the most awaited bands of the year, due to the diversity of styles that presents in its compositions, that sound very modern and current, having great chance of being one of the biggest revelations of the year of 2009.

http://www.myspace.com/officialholiness <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Holiness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.