There are seven artists currently on LastFM using the name "Holiday":
1. An indie rock band from New Haven, Connecticut
2. An electronic punk band from St. Petersburg, Florida
3. A rock band from Vancouver, British Columbia
4. A rock band from Minneapolis, Minnesota
5. A post-hardcore band from New Jersey
6. A rock band from London, England
7. A melodic punk band from the North West of England.

1) Holiday (www.twee.net/bands/holiday.html) was an indie/pop band active between 1992 and 1997, featuring Josh Gennet (guitar/vocals), Andrew Park (bass/vocals), and Matt Snow (guitar).

The group - initially dubbed Wimp Rocket - formed on the campus of Yale University in late 1992. They self-released their debut cassette "The Big Pickle" in 1993 before adding drummer Paul Moyano and travelling to Chicago to record their official debut EP, the Dave Trumfio-produced "My Roommate Joe". Drummer Calvin Chin replaced Moyano for the follow-up single, "Permission Slip," and after issuing "Prostitutes in Town" in the fall of 1994, Holiday signed with March Records to issue their self-titled debut album in February. The record’s airy, shimmering sound made it a  favorite of underground pop aficionados, and its follow-up, 1996’s Ready, Steady, Go!, was also a cult hit. Drummer J. Niimi replaced Chin for 1997’s Cafe Reggio; by the time of its release, however, Holiday was already a thing of the past. The group disbanded following their appearance at the New York Popfest that January. Gennet went on to record as the Singletons.

2) Holiday (www.myspace.com/holiday1982) is an electronic/electro/punk band active since 2000, from St. Petersburg, Florida, featuring Ricky Seelbach (keyboards/vocals).

3) Holiday (www.myspace.com/imonholiday) is an rock/punk/pop band hailing from Vancouver, British Columbia. They are currently unsigned, but were named "best local band" in the Georgia Straight newspaper and won The FOX 99.3's Vancouver Seeds contest.

4) Holiday is a four-piece pop/rock band from Minneapolis, MN, transplanted from Fargo, ND.  The band formed in 2003. Originally the lineup consisted of Nick Emmel (vocals), Mike Olson (Bass, vocals), Steve Osvold (guitar, vocals) and Josh Cushing (drums).

The band released one CD independently with this lineup called "Living With The Fallout" in 2004.  Cushing was replaced by drummer John "Kapps" Kapla early in the development of the band.  The lineup with Kapla on drums continued through another record, "Fashionably Late," released in fall 2005.

Osvold left the band and was replaced by Zack Carroll (This World Fair) before their self-titled EP was recorded.  Olson parted ways with Holiday just after the recording, replaced by David Leduc (Toast).

Carroll left Holiday shortly after to join This World Fair on a tour of the west coast and for a recording session from which would be born "Don't Make Me Wait," a song featured in the Dreamworks film Disturbia.

Dave Swift, or just Swift to his friends, replaced Carroll.  Holiday announced their breakup in the fall of 2007 with the lineup of Emmel, Kapla, Leduc and Swift.

The band cites influences ranging from Weezer Oasis and Fountains of Wayne to The Beatles and Guster.  

5. A post-hardcore band from Southern New Jersey. Members included David Costil (Vocals), Kyle Cook (Guitar/Vocals), Ryan Johnson (Guitar/Vocals), Chris Reed (Bass) and Lou Caltabiano (Drums). Other members included Kevin Smith (Drums) and Steve Perrong (Vocals).

6. Holiday is a rock band from London, England.

7. A melodic punk band from the North West of England, featuring current and former members of The Autonomads, Grover, The Great St. Louis, and Burn All Flags amongst others. They have a self-titled 7" EP available here and apparently write "happy songs about unhappy things". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Holiday">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.