There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Dark ambient duo from the United States, formed by Michael J.V. Hensley (Yen Pox, Blood Box) and Jonathan Canady (Angel of Decay, Deathpile, Blunt Force Trauma, Dead World, The Urge Within).

2) Hollow Earth is a hardcore band from Metro-Detroit, Michigan, United States, featuring guitarist Mike Moynihan, the former lead vocalist of Shai Hulud. Forming in November of 2011, they have released 2 songs from their debut EP, We Are Not Humanity which can be previewed and downloaded from their bandcamp page http://hollow-earth.bandcamp.com/.

They have announced that they have signed to Panic Records, who will release the full EP on April 17th.

The current lineup: Steve-Vocals, Mike-Guitar/Vocals, Dave-Guitar, Jake-Bass and Jake-Drums.

3) Hollow Earth are a three piece psychedelic/progressive rock band from, of course, Sweden, and their new album is titled Out of Atlantis, comprised of six tracks that scream of influences from the late 1960's. Citing acts such as Pink Floyd, Deep Purple (Mk. I), Caravan, and King Crimson as inspiration, the trio of Cristobal Nemo (keyboards, guitars, vocals, percussion), Don Pharaoh (bass, vocals), and Rod Handel (drums, percussion) have crafted an album here that seems out of a time capsule from 1969. Dreamy synth passages, Hammond, and Mellotron permeate the lush & spacey tracks "Electric Eden" and "Riders on the Vapour Trail", while the more upbeat title track is ripe with commanding Hammond organ, biting guitar solos, acrobatic drumming, and booming bass riffs. With whispered vocals, creepy organ, and soft militaristic drumming, "Incantation" is like a leftover from Pink Floyd's Meddle and Ummagumma period, but it's on the epic "Behind the Ivory Gate" where things really get interesting, a head on collision of The Moody Blues, early Gentle Giant, Iron Butterfly, Book of Taliesyn era Deep Purple, and Sweden's current hard rock darlings Ghost, complete with haunting vocals, Mellotron, Hammond organ, electric piano, synths, and heavy rock guitars. In fact, closer "Ave Satánas or Tea-Time With Lucifer" also brings to mind the popular Ghost, thanks to some quirky arrangements and evil lyrical content.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hollow+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.