Soundscape of Emotions is the debut album by the Brazilian band Hollowmind, based in São Paulo. As the title already suggests, the album was conceived as a soundtrack for the simplest to the deepest feelings of the human being. 

Introspection, hopelessness, affection and anguish are some of the feelings found in the lyrics of Soundscape of Emotions, creatively highlighted by the subtitles that supplement each track title.  The themes of the songs are all authentic and “are based on my personal experiences and observations”, explains vocalist and bass player Roberto Gutierrez, who wrote all ten songs of the album. “Nevertheless, I think the lyrics could be easily associated to personal experiences from anyone that listens to the songs”, Gutierrez adds.  

The album, produced by Udo Stramm, carries a good balance of the power and energy of heavy metal and the musical sensitivity and emotion commonly found in progressive rock songs. Inspired by Iron Maiden, Metallica, Megadeth, Rush and Queensrÿche, the band brings an album with an opening act that is quite a bold move: Cry (The song of Nonconformism) – a 4+ minutes long instrumental track in which it is possible to capture all those elements – is a song that shows unusual personality for a newcomer.  

Throughout the album, speedy and heavy songs, such as Beyond the Distance (The Song of Confidence), share space with emotional ballads, such as Shallow Room (The Song of Introspection), and long tracks punctuated by inciting tempo changes, such as Days of Dying Peace (The Song of Anguish) – featuring Alexandre Silveira’s remarkable guitar solos.  
   
Hollowmind’s history dates back to the year of 1993, when Gutierrez and Silveira were together in another band, along with drummer Daniel Salles, guitar player and vocalist Roberto Naban and Alexandre Hiro on keyboards. After some gigs and some changes in the line-up, the band adopted its current name, Hollowmind. Later, with Gutierrez taking over the vocals and introducing Alessandro Rosa on guitars, the band successfully performed several times in the greater São Paulo area.
    
In 1996, Hollowmind was disbanded. However, in the years that followed, while participating in parallel projects, Gutierrez was still dedicating himself to the writing of the songs that are currently part of Soundscape of Emotions. In 2002, Gutierrez managed to re-establish Hollowmind with guitar player André Hemsi and drummer Mauricio Magaldi (former member of VersOver and Widow). After some additional line-up changes, Alexandre Silveira rejoined the band. Gutierrez and Silveira worked together to give final shape to the songs and decided to finally get into the studio for the album’s definitive recording sessions. During post-production, the current line-up was completed with drummer Felipe Gomes joining the band. 
 
With cover artwork by Gustavo Sazes (also responsible for the cover art of Eterna, Fates Prophecy, Hargos and Ancesttral) and special guests Kadu Averbach (Wizards) on guitars and José Cardillo (Eterna) on keybords, the album is a Die Hard Records release.

For more information, visit the band's official websites at:
http://www.hollowmind.com.br
http://www.myspace.com/hollowmindbr <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hollowmind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.