18 July 1968: Made it through the birth canal. Screamed a lot, I suppose but it was good to be here.

Until spring 1978: Probably spent my time eating lots and growing up. Played a lot in nearby forest, North Germany.

Some time in 1978: Got my first guitar and started to take lessons with a very patient and beardy teacher who also had a fondness for home knitted cardigans and vests. Germany discovered bio-dynamically grown produce and I learned to play Bach and The Beatles on a Spanish acoustic guitar.

Some time in 1982: I had learned the basics, got tired of Bach and The Beatles and stopped taking lessons.

Fast Forward to 1985: After a few bewildering years, commonly referred to as adolescence, picked up guitar again and met long-time friend Dirk Kusche. Together we started playing to his dad’s ‘Schlagzeugplatte’ (drum tracks on vinyl). Since we had the electric guitar and his bass guitar plugged straight into his stereo it blew up of course. So we had to find a drummer. Found one and fifteen hundred name changes and different singers and musicians later ‘The Tearless Beheaded’ (don’t laugh!) split up for good. Teenage girls in our village and worldwide (we wished) were inconsolable and everybody went different ways.

Autumn 1992-Autum 1996: Move from Bremen to Cologne to play more music and study. Did study and also played in various and dubious bands and projects. Started to feel musically uninspired (“No wonder you did. You lived in a country where David Hasselhoff has a number 1” some of my friends here in the UK now say). And they are right!

September 1996: Moved to London for reasons outlined above. Session musician for Britpop bands (not very good ones). Realised I had to start my own thing. After the short-lived project ‘Plastiscene’, decided to use my weird first name. Good friends suggested ‘The Holm Hofmann Experience’, but I wasn’t too sure.

May 2001: Released ‘Music For Astronauts’-EP and 7” Single ‘Afterglow’ on Berlin based Firestation Records and the Wohnton label. Encouraged by the good response from the music loving public, went on tour through Germany and played the London gig circuit. Started to work on new songs which became the tracks on ‘South Of The River’. Recorded in London and at Dirk’s studio in Bremen (would never had it finished without him…)

October 200: Album release ‘South Of The River’. Cheers! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Holm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.