An indie-rock band from Brisbane, Australia which split around the year 2004. Members included Lee Griffin (Bic Benedict), Patrick McDermott (The John Steel Singers), Alana Skyring (The Grates), Conan Thorogood and Ian Campbell.

Founded by two Brothers, Brother Lee and Brother Ian. A new member wandered into the Holster realm, with the promise of a new sound and direction for the land. It was Brother Conan, a master with the bass. The three brothers combined their strength and it sounded good, until Sister Kerrilee arrived off the high seas, she brought the exotic styles of the drum. Previously unheard of in Holster, this new sound completed the old Holster, one that was a powerful force of the old era.

Then came a dark time for the realm, the Drumless Age. Sister Kerrilee grew tired of this land and decided to return to her homeland. Holster was left drumless and its neighbors grew stronger, while the land was brought closer and closer to extinction.

The Kingdom was left without a drumming beat; chaos and disorder fall upon the land. It was during this time that Brother Ian became the "Savior of the Land".

He hid away in his castle, mastering the art of drumming, while the outside world passed. In his castle he forged a new drumming style for the Kingdom and returned to his brothers with the art. Holster, with a new sound, return to order and fought off neighbors, yet the three rulers weren't satisfied with the direction of the land.

It was decided that one of the apprentices should be promoted to Brother status to bring Holster back to the power it once was. Brother Pat was chosen. Apprenticing under many masters, including Brother Lee, Brother Pat moved into the role of second guitarist, the position once held by Brother Ian.

After time, Brother Ian grew tired of his new art and decided to create his own Kingdom of Emerson and return to his original skill. With that, Holster was again drumless. Many would be apprentices tried to prove their worth as a Master of the Drums, but only one apprentice had a true flair for skin-smacking. Alana was promoted to Sisterhood and completed Holster.

The recorded time of Holster ends here.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Holster">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.