Holy Pain is a progressive power metal band from France. 

During 2003, David - singer and guitar player - wished to integrate a band with real ambitions. After many auditions, that all turn out badly, none really fitted him - so David decided to write his songs all by himself. He then spent almost a whole year locked into his room, to write 10 songs. "Holy Pain" was born.

Now he had to find other musicians. Christophe, Jimmy & Eduardo became part of Holy Pain in 2005.

Shortly after, Eduardo had to leave the band for personal reasons. His substitute Nicolas joined the band only 2 months before recording. In September 2005 Holy Pain spent more than 20 days in the NSR Record Studio with the Great Laurent Nafissi. After a lot of hassle - and thanks to Laurent's very good job, David had Holy Pain's 1st album: Last Sigh.

After that Christophe faced personal problems and they lost a few months of band time; but everything was alright and they went back to work, and soon enough Holy Pain was working on new songs.

In May 2006, David made a very difficult decision: to separate from Jimmy. Holy Pain needed a 'real' soloist, because until then Jimmy was a rhythm guitarist, and David had to do both the soloing and the vocals, which was a tough job to perform; so Thomas joined the band as a solo guitar player.

After spending several months working on the new songs, the four guys were ready to enter again the NSR studio to record their second full album, Another Day. With a sound powerful than before, songs both melodic, aggressive and inventive, Holy Pain is forging his own sound and thanks to the great job done with Laurent NAFISSI, the band is proud to present Another Day to the record labels first, but also to the fans on stage.

Due to personnal dissensions, Holy Pain and Thomas decided both to part ways in July 2007. Holy Pain had now to search again for a new lead guitarist who has joined the band some weeks later and will be introduced to the fans soon... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Holy+Pain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.