Christian folk metal band from Kyiv, Ukraine formed in 1999.
Genres : Folk/Death/Unblack metal
Lyrical themes: Salvation, Spiritual Battle, Heaven, Christianity.

Biography: 
The band Holy Blood was formed in October 1999. The band was formed when, after a rehearsal of church worship, some musicians decided to play something hard since they had enough free time. 

In the beggining the band consisted of three persons, Fedor Buzilevich on guitar and vocal, Dmitry Titorenko on drums and Michail Rodionov on bass. They were previously playing in a band Voice of Cryeth with Fedor Buzilevich on bass, Dmitry Titorenko on keyboard and Michail Rodionov on guitar but they decided to make their sound harder. So, in 2000 they started to play death/grind.

In 2001 came three new musicians: Eugen Tsesarev (ex-Maranatha) on bass, Alexei Furman (ex-Revival) on the lead guitar and Vera Knyazeva on keyboards. At that point Michail Rodionov started playing the rhytm guitar. With the arrival of those members the band started to play melodic death metal and they began to their record first album.

Fedor and Vera got married in August 2001.

In 2002, the small Kiev metal label "Core Zone" released their first album entitled "The Wanderer".

In the middle of 2002, Alexei Furman (guitar) left the band and his place was occupied by Artyom Stupak (ex-Maranatha). With this new lineup the band prepared new material in a more folk black/death style. A new instrument was involved, it was a block-flute played by Fedor Buzilevich.

In 2003, Michail Rodionov left the band and his place was occupied by Sergei Nagorny (ex-Celestial Call). The band continued to prepare new material in the folk/black style. Artyom Stupak didn't take part in the band anymore because of the creation of his own project Evroklidon (playing black metal). So the place of rhytm guitarist was occupied by Fedor Buzilevich and the place of lead guitarist by Sergei Nagorny. Around that time, Fedor Buzlilevich and Michail Rodionov recorded the album "Retribution For Sin" with their band Requital in a death/grind style. It included previously unreleased songs of Holy Blood.

In december 2003, the bassist Eugene Tsesarev left the band and his place was occupied by Alexei Andrushenko (Axxent).

In March 2004, the band releases a compilation of Ukrainian Christian metal bands named "Total Armageddon".

On April 18th the band shot their first videoclip for the song "The Spring".

In April 2004, the band begins to work on their official website. At that time the band was gaining popularity not only in Ukraine, but also far over of its borders. They also begin to record their third album.

In 2004, the label Bombworks records (Texas, US) offered them a deal and so was released "The Wanderer" in many different countries of the world.

In october 2004, the band played concerts in Belarus, paricipating to the "Hear My Call Tour".

In 2005, Bombworks Records released their second album "Waves Are Dancing". And that year album was released by the young Russian label "Musica Production".

In July 2005, Vera Knyazeva (keyboards) left the band and her place was occupied by Vladislav Malitsky (ex-GefSad).

In october 2005 came a new musician named Vyacheslav Kirishun, who played on ethnic instruments such as bagpipe and flutes.

In June 2006, Vyacheslav left the band because of reasons that are unkown to the band members.

The 2006 year was very succesful for the band because they played a lot of gigs. Holy Blood played in different cities of Ukraine and also played in Switzerland, Moldova and Finland.

On December 1st 2006 was shoot the second videoclip for the song "The Patriot".

In December 2006, the Russian label «Musica Production» re-releases their first album "The Wanderer" with a new artwork. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Holy+Blood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.