There is more than one musical artist with the name Hoof:

1. English Alternative Rock band from Nottingham, England;
2. American short lived post grunge band formed by Tad Doyle after the demise of his previous bands TAD and Hog Molly;
3. American improvised post-rock and metal influenced quartet from Massachusetts;
4. Alias of the Dutch music and art producers.

1. HOOF, an English Alternative/Rock band from Nottingham, England, was formed in 1996. The band members are Wayne Banks (bass, vocals), Jason Banks (guitar, vocals) and Ploff (drums). The band is known for their musicianship and improvisational style. Their musical style involves a wide range of different influences. Hoof includes humor in their music but also make pointed political statements. The band are a true co-operative with no primary songwriter.  Besides the band, the members are all seasoned session musicians. Wayne is currently Bassist for the Robin Gibb Band and Wayne and Jason are members of German metal bands "Messiah's Kiss",and "Repression."  They have provided soundtrack and film scores for many projects over the years, including Ripcurl, Billabong, Red Bull and others associated with the extreme sports scene.

2. Hoof was a short lived band formed by Tad Doyle after the demise of his previous outfits TAD and Hog Molly.

3. Hoof is also the name of an improvised post-rock and metal influenced quartet from Massachusetts.  The band features Jay Negro (guitar, baritone guitar), Rick Surette (guitar, bass), Dan (synthesizer) and Christian Cavicchio (drums).

4. Hoof (pronounced 'Hove' with a sharp F, it's Dutch) has been the online name of Ruud van Wijngaarden for many years, but for most of the musical tracks, Hoof is actually two people. They are made in collaboration with Lique Angel: music encyclopediva, icon of good taste, artist, painter and best friend. She also painted the portrait that is used extensively for all Hoof related imagery. Ruud does the technical stuff, arranges, programs, mixes, Lique provides her ideas and improvements, with hums, claps, sings melodies and easily does special effects and beat boxing, until both are satisfied. They have been dancing to and creating electronic music for more than 20 years. Since 2016 the first tracks are being released. Find out actual information on the artists site. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hoof">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.