Hoops began as a solo project for musician Drew Auscherman. In December 2011, this first version of Hoops debuted with the song Commercial, followed by a dual-song release called Avian Way later in the month. Auscherman recruited the rest of the band members in 2011 while they were all juniors in high school, however, they had all been friends since sixth grade. After Auscherman's solo Hoops releases of Rosie's Garden (2012) and the full-length Little Pleasures (2014), the full-band Hoops released their first tape titled Tape #1 in 2015, which contains versions of Little Pleasures songs "Be There" and "Grass," the former of which was re-recorded for the release. Hoops later released two more tapes, #2 and #3 in 2015 and 2016 respectively. Following a live session with Audiotree Live in July 2016, Hoops released their first self-titled EP on Fat Possum Records. Hoops then released their first full-length album with Fat Possum, titled Routines, in May 2017, which reached #21 on the Billboard Top Heatseekers chart. In November 2017, Hoops released the compilation of their full-band tapes, titled Tapes #1-3 on vinyl.

On July 18, 2018, the band announced on their Facebook page that they were on an indefinite hiatus.

On November 12, 2019, Hoops released a single, "They Say", after over a year on hiatus.

Hoops announces a full-length album, "Halo", releasing on October 2, 2020. They released they first single "Fall Back" on Jun 24, 2020.

On July 30th, 2020, Hoops announced on Instagram that they would be breaking up after alleged account(s) of sexual abuse had been revealed, in which acts were allegedly conducted by former member James Harris. Auscherman also cited his own issues of emotional abuse towards partners and friends, which had been instrumental to the band's previous hiatus, as to why it would be unacceptable for Hoops to continue as a band with the sort of platform it had. Concurrently, Fat Possum Records announced that they would no longer be releasing the album Halo in light of the allegations, with all pre-orders to be refunded as soon as possible <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/hoops">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.