1) Hopeless is a hardcore band from Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Since their formation in 2008, Hopeless have wasted little time in establishing themselves as one of Australia’s most forward-thinking hardcore bands.

After landing early support slots with acts as diverse as Have Heart and Four Year Strong, Hopeless has gone on to tour nationally with everyone from Her Nightmare and The Amity Affliction through to We Are The Ocean and Ruiner.

In April 2009 Hopeless released their debut full-length, 'Dear World'. Recorded in their hometown of Melbourne and mixed at Gateway Studios by Jay Maas (Defeater, Verse) in Boston, the eleven-tracks on offer showcased a level of songwriting and musicianship that’s rarely seen in a group this young, with the quintet’s love of bluesy riffing effortlessly combining with their more traditional hardcore influences.

In May 2010, Hopeless again enlisted the services of Drew Parsons at 3 Phase Studios,  releasing their first vinyl effort titled 'Human' through Melbourne’s iconic Trial And Error Records. Featuring their most aggressive and dynamic material yet, 'Human' is the sound of a band that refuses to be pigeonholed.




2) Hopeless (2007-2010) was a depressive black metal band from Málaga, Spain formed in 2007. The only member was Luciferian.

More info can be found at http://www.myspace.com/hopelessones666

As of September 3, 2010, Hopeless is no more. 



3) Hopeless is a futurepop project of Vigilante's singer Iván Muñoz. 
It is a mix of differents textures and sounds, combining differents influences taken from electronic music, along with voices which mix in the right amount melody and aggressiveness. 
Hopeless is born as an answer to the times we live, times where our dreams, hopes and ideals are replaced by selfishness, apathy and conformism. 
Using messages that invite to reflection and sounds charged with emotions, Hopeless tries to illuminate this hidden corner in our souls where hope lies. 

Hopeless is:
Iván Muñoz: (Vocals and Sequences)

Hopeless Live are:
Iván Muñoz: (Vocals / Sequences)
Lucia Ponticas: (Vocals / Keyboards)

4) Hopeless is a Hip-Hop/Electronica artist from Miami.
Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/iamhopelessmusic

5) HOPELESS, a Thai Metalcore band from Bangkok, Thailand
Current members are
Vocal : Yutthana Sutthiprapha (Noom)
Guitars : Anusorn Intrasai (Ta)
Bass : Baramee Chawalitcheewin (Park)
Drum : Piyawat Maichareon (Gunk) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hopeless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.