Formed in mid spring of 2004 in their hometown of Dallas, TX. Hope Has Failed Us on the surface may seem like standard issue ear slaughter, but there's a bit more to this clobbering beast than usual. They've tapped into a potent mix of Sonic s that doesn't just draw from the obvious. While still sounding as burly and no-frills as it gets, Hope Has Failed Us strives to be more than a one-dimensional destruction squad. With realm’s of death, black and speed metal along with heavy undertones of thrash and hardcore, their sound is positively, melodically brutal. With topical lyrics ranging from heartbreak, betrayal and loss to their ultimate love of horror movies and the undead! Nothing is off limits to Hope Has Failed Us and it shows in the diversity this band brings to the table.

In late 2004, the band finished there five song demo (Prelude To Terror), which was made available exclusively on their MySpace page. By late of 2005, Hope Has Failed Us gained the attention of David Bixler of Bombworks Records for a record deal with international distribution through Century Media Distribution. With their debut album, Epitaphs and Eulogies (released via Bombworks Records). June 16, 2007.

And now with their much highly anticipated self release Beneath They Dwell slated for release in late 2012, there’s definitely a reason why this bunch has opened for a list of national acts that reads like a who's who list of metal, grind, hardcore and sludge. Whether they're doing that, or headlining a show, Hope Has Failed Us has plenty in the way of convincing appeal and commanding stage presence on which to rely. Further success no doubt awaits them.

The band has shared the stage with such acts as Warbringer, Emmure, Terror, After The Burial, Miss May I, Thick As Blood, Living Sacrifice, War Of Ages, Shai Hulud, Lionheart, The Great Commission, The Famine, The Funeral Pyre, Sepultura, Sworn Enemy, Diecast, Suicide Silence, Cattle Decapitation, Misery Index, Burn In Silence, Intronaut, Daath, Fuck the Facts, LoSa, The Esoteric, The Handshake Murders, Facecage, Gammacide, As Blood Runs Black, Rosetta, Kill the Client, Scum of the Earth, Winter Solstice, Bloodlined Calligraphy, The Destro, Quinta Essentia, and Within Chaos. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hope+Has+Failed+Us">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.