Hordes Of Nebulah emerged out of the U.S. scene in early 1999 C.E. The intention was to create hymns for the coming apocalypse via raw black metal. Originally formed by Athastrus (guitar) and Zahgurim (bass/vocals), these two entities conjured Saprophyt (guitar/vocals) and Angelraper (vocals) for the recording of "The Death Of Light" split release in September of 1999.
 
And so the words of the christ burned, forever destroying his reign. For the next release, Zahgurim took over on drums and the "Promo Anno 2001 C.E." was unleashed with the fury of a thousand storms. Shortly after, Angelraper decided to leave the band. Despite this, the Horde's hatred continued to grow and in August of 2002, Wirilome (vocals) joined the band and this lineup recorded the full length release "...And Blasphemous Night Shall Fall". Wirilome performed many live incantations with the band before deciding to leave.
 
In 2005, Guilwarthon (drums) joined the unholy union, leaving Zahgurim to focus on bass and vocals. For the mark of the beast is revealed, as shadows in the skies. This lineup unleashed two creations, both Anno 2005 C.E. The first being an e.p. with four songs entitled "Lay Waste To The Myths Of The Seraphim". The second, entitled "When The Sun Was Bled Of Its Light", contains a remix/remaster of these same four tracks, and also includes two other new blasphemies, plus three tracks which were resurrected from the grave.
 
Guilwarthon was soon removed from the band and replaced by Ruiner in February of 2007. Later in November of that same year Demoriel joined the band on guitar after the cursed Athastrus suffered an arm injury, however Athastrus continued to compose and record with the band.
 
In October of 2008, Abyss Records released a remastered version of "...And Blasphemous Night Shall Fall" featuring seven remixed and remastered bonus tracks including the entire "Lay Waste To The Myths Of The Seraphim" EP and select songs from "When The Sun Was Bled Of Its Light". Also in 2008, recordings for a new full length entitled "Distant Winds Of Grief" were started. Two of the tracks from these sessions can be heard on this profile.
 
Disagreements over the completion of these recordings and the ultimate future of the band, among other things, led to the renewal of Hordes Of Nebulah in November of 2009, bringing original member Athastrus back into the fold as a full time member.
 
Hordes Of Nebulah are currently working on a new demo for an upcoming studio release, new songs shall be posted in the near future, along with other tracks from "The Distant Winds Of Grief" recording session.The sun is silent as an eternity of darkness begins.Hordes Of Nebulah shall rise above and keep eternal hell fires lit.

Fan Site <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hordes+Of+Nebulah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.