1.) HORNED GOD was formed in July ’98, by five young musicians fans of extreme Metal. At that time the band was called Sacrifice, being this name changed in September ’00 after a Canadian label, which had the rights of a 80’s Thrash Metal band also called Sacrifice, notified the Brazilian band about that fact.

Still under the band name Sacrifice, they released their first stuff in 1999, titled “Revenge of Pain”, an EP released by themselves and hardly promoted in the Brazilian scene. Then aftera few shows, the line-up was fixed with: Erico (vocals), Daniel (guitars), Hudy (guitars), Dario (bass) and Bruno (drums).

With this line-up the band started to develop their own sound and conception of their work, established on subjects as the true Satanism and Thelema. At that time HORNED GOD also started to play in several other Brazilian cities, and to wrote the stuff for their first album. As soon as Dario left the band, they recorded “Absit”, HORNED GOD debut album, released by Tumba Records in November ’01.

With a new bass player, Ângelo, the band started to promote this album playing live beside bands such as Monstrosity, Krisiun, Cannibal Corpse, and some others. During these shows, a new line-up change happened: Daniel left the band and Fabiano Penna (ex-Rebaelliun) replaced him. With this line-up fixed, the band keeps playing live in Brazil and starts to prepare the new stuff for the second album, which has been entitled as “Chaos, Bringer of All Revelations”, and the release date is now in October/2003 by the french label Listenable Records and At War Records ( Brazil ).
Diabolical virtuoses of the new apocalypse. HORNED GOD featuring REBAELLIUN member set the rules for extreme evil death metal for the new millenium. There's so much sonic violence, inhuman fast rhythms, ear crushing solos, and pure anger displayed on the band's new album that you will basically run for cover. No compromise !.

Line-Up: Erico – vocals, / Hudy – guitars, / Fabiano Penna – guitars, / Ângelo – bass, / Bruno – drums 

2.) Horned God is also a Russian black metal band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Horned+God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.