Rhino is dead, long live HORN OF THE RHINO!

These Spaniards may have had to change their moniker due to copyright problems (how rock n'roll is that?!) but make no mistake, this is exactly the same band that crushed both your souls and balls with two already heavier-than-thou albums, 2007's 'Breed the Chosen One' and the following year's 'Dead Throne Monarch'. But somehow, 'Weight of Coronation' is a tad of a different beast.

This being said, their music still weighs more than a pallet of bricks thrown from the 10th floor and as soon as opening track "Speaking in Tongues" grabs your balls (and squeezes), you'll be in awe of their amazingly grainy and juicy six-strings sound, like some ancient Yeti dragging itself from a lake of black tar. And if the title of the track "Crushed and Dragged to the Swamp" alone doesn't sound like a nasty plan, nothing will. 

But the (dark) beauty of 'Weight' doesn't lie only in its sense of gravity. Having thrown the rules out of the window, this power-trio greatest strength is their uncanny ability to make utter darkness and light meets. For every brutal pummeling riff they throw at you, they also can showcase the next minute mesmerizing melodies and beautiful (yeah you heard us) 70's rock feeling. Fuck, how many bands can pull off smashing your head through a wall ("Mass Burial Punishement") and then when you're down bleeding enchant you with some ALICE IN CHAINS-goes-sludge ("Sovereign") where some great Hammond organ is being poured on you like sweet honey on a hot chocolate cake freshly out of the oven?! None, unless you're called HORN OF THE RHINO. 

Recorded in Bilbao in March 2010, once again featuring the disturbing artwork of Rafa Garres, which will even make the kvltest black metal fan shit in their pants, and with five tracks out of eight breaking the eight minutes mark and a spanking deluxe vinyl version featuring an extra (and exclusive to this edition) cover of Black Sabbath's "Disturbing The Priest" for extra heaviness (like if we needed any!), 'Weight of Coronation' is one hell of a record that NEEDS to be checked out but hey, HORN OF THE RHINO are one hell of a band right?!

Discography :

Rhino – Breed The Chosen One - 2007 (Oidos Sordos Records)
Rhino – Dead Throne Monarch - 2008 (7th Gate Records)
Horn Of The Rhino – Weight Of Coronation - 2010 (Doomentia Records)
Horn Of The Rhino – Grengus - 2012 (Doomentia Records) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Horn+of+the+Rhino">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.