Horns of Hattin is a Vienna, Austria-based Extreme Metal band formed in Fall 2007 by former members of Vargsriket, Final Aphorism, Cryosphere, Avathar and Seeds of Sorrow. The band takes its name from the Battle of Hattin, one of bloodiest episodes to occur during the Crusades in the area between present-day Jerusalem and Damascus. (The battle site is known historically as the Horns of Hattin because of two hills on either side of the valley that appear to form “horns” from the distance.) The Battle of Hattin essentially heralded the end of the Crusades; today the Battle of Hattin retains a deeply significant symbolism of large political, religious and social systems breaking down due to the arrogance and greed of the ruling elite.

Horns of Hattin’s music focuses a great deal on history and its relevance to the present. The band recounts tales of ancient mysteries, secret societies, and the events of the Crusades, providing an introspective glance into the present and future. Horns of Hattin also explore various themes related to man and his religious ideas, as well as mankind’s religious and dualistic nature – the personal quest for enlightenment, self-mastery and quest for control. The band’s unofficial motto: There is no religion higher than truth.

Musically, Horns of Hattin combine Epic Metal, symphonic Black Metal, classic Heavy Metal and Death Metal influences. Authentic symphonic passages lend an extra tension to the complex story-telling structure of each song. This mixing of diverse styles has served them well, and the band has earned a reputation as a flexible live act whose style is diverse enough to have landed them offers for national and international support gigs with Mayhem, Enslaved, Dornenreich, Shining and Asmodeus.

The current lineup was finalized in 2010. The first full release, De Veritate, was released 21 May 2011. De Veritate features six new songs and three re-recorded tracks from Horns of Hattin’s first demo, 1187, and was mixed and mastered by Andy LaRocque (King Diamond, Death) at Sonic Train Studios in Sweden. 

Official Website: http://hornsofhattin.com
Official Web Shop: http://shop.hornsofhattin.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Horns+of+Hattin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.