Horroble is a sinister hard rock killing machine inspired by the dark metal of Danzig and Black Sabbath, the technical prowess of Metallica, and the psychedelic space-glam of Ace Frehley. Luci laces this poisonous brew with vivid, bloodcurdling stories of werewolves, vampires and black-souled vixens from the depths of the abyss, and serves it all up in deceptively tasty little packages with titles like "Looking For Your Grave" and "Red Hell" that hold nasty surprises deep within their candy-covered shells. Horroble is heavy, glammy, demonstrably weird and piled tits-high with horror, but it's also soulful, self-aware, and rocks like a Fulci zombie epic cranked up to 11.


Luci dreamed up Horroble in the bitter early months of 2006, and by summer, he had written enough tales of terror to record the band's first CD, "Death of Ghost." The album was recorded in one long, suitably torturous 32 hour jag at Technical Ecstasy studios in the infamous "Satan's Face" area of New Brunswick, just a half a mile away from the last reported sighting of the Jersey Devil. No one remembers too much about the session, but engineers there claim there's still blood on the walls, and the kindly old janitor working that night was never seen again. "Death of Ghost" was planned, and executed, as a pan-dimensional project, with actual spirits from the netherworld joining Luci in his infernal business. There are many haunted souls involved in its production, but some of them are corporeal. The bass and drums were supplied, respectively, by singular sensation Bobby and Technical Ecstasy owner/ Doc Hopper stickman  Chris "Gobo" Pearce. Luci, of course, provides the murderglam guitars and the slurry Frankenfiend vocals, but all those strange noises you hear lingering in the corners and bubbling under the surface? Well, those are dead people.

 
Death of Ghost was released on that most unholy of days, October 31st, by Carny Goat records. It garnered heaps of praise from cool ghouls everywhere, including the venerable Classic Rock, England's fastest growing rock magazine. They wrote: "Imagine Ace Frehley fronting the Murderdolls. Imagine cartoon bats and half-naked zombie chicks. Imagine big, dumb pop-metal thrills that turn into murderous punk n'roll werewolf anthems after midnight. That's what you'll find on Horrorble's debut, Death of Ghost. If you survive it."


What's next for Luci and his band of merry maniacs? Well, more rock. More roll. More robbed graves and more grieving widows. So lock your doors, say your prayers, and keep the wolfbane handy. Horroble is on the prowl. 

(Band description taken from the official Horroble myspace - http://www.myspace.com/horroble) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Horroble">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.