From the grim dark north comes an explosion of color and sound! Horseface from Umeå, Sweden, are back with a 7” on Finnish label Joteskii Groteskii.

Silakat explores attraction seen through the life cycle of the herring. Wobbly synths, filtered drum machines and drippy sounds keep the band going as they fall through the song. Sort of like if Orange Juice met Juice Leskinen on a ferry across the Gulf of Bothnia.

Flip side for Siivouspäivä. Here Horseface place Crass style march drums aside some kind of wonky dancehall beat, topped off with frustrated vocals in Finnish about the state of the Swedish tax system.

The colorful and naive sleeve was designed by Tampere based artist Arsi Keva and the single comes in 300 copies.

Horseface play repetitive melodic music based on unstable polyrhythms and Swedish-Finnish lyrics. Along with their post-punk predecessors they have a curious ear for new and old sounds of global pop. They started playing together in 2013 and have since released two cassettes, one LP and toured both Sweden and Finland.
--
HorseFace is also an alternative metal band from the Finger Lakes region, New York. Founded in late 2006, the band consists of vocalist and bass guitar player Jesse Halstead, guitar player John Halstead, drummer Jack Halstead, and additional guitarist Sean Augustus. HorseFace has been an active act in the the Finger Lakes, having played over one hundred gigs in venues all across New York State, including popular Rochester venues such as the Penny Arcade, The Water Street Music Hall, The Montage Music Hall, and The California Brewhaus. Sporting a full length album entitled 'The Horsafix', with a sophomore album in the works, the group also covers a number of popular artists, including Nirvana, Black Sabbath, Marcy Playground, Melvins, Weezer, Green Day and The Deftones. Influenced by artists like Nirvana and Alice in Chains, HorseFace has a sound reminiscent of 90's era alternative rock, but adds many elements clearly influenced by modern metal, creating a sound that is hard to classify into any one genre. 'The Horsafix' in its entirety can be heard at http://horseface.bandcamp.com/ and HorseFace can be contacted at jazzbassjesse@gmail.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Horseface">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.