1) Norwegian Grindcore band formed in 2004, disbanded in 2007 as they changed name and line up, now known as Forræderi. Main inspiration is Sayyadina, Napalm Death and Nasum. Very obvious influences comes from ND's mid and late nineties/early 2000's sound, like Enemy of the Music Business.

Guitar player Erik Simensen mostly wrote the riffs along with Jon Christoffer "Crustoffer the Swede" Sandstrøm's lyrics. Sandstrøm now is the vocalist and rythm guitarist in grindcore/crust punk act Forræderi as well as drummer in doom project Remains of a Limb and the hardcorepunk band Elendighet. 
Bass player was Erlend Holten Natvig, guitarplayer in Timeworn, formerly known as Eskatol. The drummer was Hanki Kjøttkvern.

2) Hostile, formed in 2006 by Lead guitarist A.J who was brought up in a grave yard house in the heart of the Black Country (The birth place of Heavy metal).

The line-up consists of vocalist Jay, Lead guitar A.J , Gunga on the drums and latest member Alex Hill son of Metal God Ian Hill on bass.

Having become regulars on the UK live circuit, playing renown venues such as 'The Wolverhampton Civic...' and gaining support to big acts such as 'SoulFly' and 'Morbid Angel', Hostile managed to gain the attention of metal God and founding member of the mighty 'Judas Priest', K.K Downing, who caught the band live at his local venue. Impressed by the potential of the band, K.K not only agreed to produce the bands debut album but to also write a song for the band titled ‘Addiction’ which is very unique as this is the first time K.K has written a song outside Judas Priest.

As a taste of things to come, Hostile then hooked up with top London booking agent Rod Macsween of I.T.B who went on to book the band for the 'Download Festival' at the historical Donington Park venue, gaining excellent reviews such as 'KERRANG!' 'kkkk' review and also packing out the Gibson stage tent to which they went down a storm. The band then went on to support the newly reunited brothers Max and Igor Cavalera in their new band 'Cavalera Conspiracy' at the sold out 'London Astoria' gaining stunning reviews and again going down a storm with the London crowd.

Hostile then re-grouped with K.K Downing and headed down to 'The Old Smithy' studios where 'Judas Priest' recorded 'Angel Of Retribution' (2003) and there latest masterpiece 'Nostradamus' (2008) to start work on Hostile's debut album which was also to be engineered by Richard Wood who had worked with Judas Priest on their latest work 'Nostradamus'

Writing the album and working with K.K has been an invaluable experience for Hostile and they certainly can now understand why K.K says metal is in his veins, Hostile are also proud to say that they too hail from the cherished birthplace of heavy metal. “We live and breathe Heavy Metal!” Says A.J

Now with their debut album ‘Eve Of Destruction’ complete, Hostile hope to aspire to be the most important band from Birmingham/Black Country since their mighty predecessors 'Judas Priest' and 'Black Sabbath' themselves. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hostile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.