Back during the first few weeks of 1994 in a local concert hall called "Shagalees" I (Scott) was walking to get a beer when I come upon some friends, it was: Ron, Keith, and Chris. Ron a local singer having played in a few bands and now doing some stuff with Keith and Chris from the local band BUSTED WIG, with me at the time being in a band called TRIPLE THREAT with some members from the first band I was in for 10 years called OSIRIS which played top 40 metal and BUSTED WIG being a very technical progressive metal band. We chatted for a little and Chris says "Hey ya wanna get something together?" The first thing to cross my mind was "Eric First" their drummer, the top drummer in the area. The first thing I said was "I just started playing double bass and you would be taking a step down". "We want to play some more simpler stuff," Chris said. "Ok what ya have in mind"? Says me. Around this time PANTERA was pretty much at their peak and a big influence on all of us. We all thought it would be cool to use a mix of them and a twist of BIOHAZARD to start things off.
        The first practice (I think) in February we decided just to pick up a cover song to break the ice and it was PANTERA's "Domination" and this lead to a few originals. The first ever Appearance of H.E. was on March 26th, 1994. I was playing with my other band and I called the guy's up and we played "Domination", everybody out in front of us didn't know what to think, it was cool. After that came a few Jam Nights just to polish everything up and finally the first show was June 24th in '94 at the Planet Earth arena here in Mansfield with FIRST BORN from Cincinnati. T joined the band in mid '96 and Downtown Tony Brown joined in March of '97 for the last three months that the band was together. This three year ride was full of fun times playing 80+ shows, playing at CBGB's in New York City with H2O, meeting and playing with all kinds of bands, recording, all that shit was great. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hostile+Environment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.