Officially HOSTILE CALM’s date of birth is December, 16th, 1999 when the first concert of group has been given in the art-club "Planetarium" (Ryazan, Russia). The collective was formed on splinters of the Ryazan punk-grunge command "Sindrom Dauna" (the Syndrome of Down) which participants decided to play more serious and heavy music. The ingredients of that dish were doom, death, black and gothic. From fathers-founders of HOSTILE CALM to the first public performance "held on" only GANS (guitar) and NICHT (firstly - the vocalist, later replaced ACID on a post of the drummer, before his gone from the group). The vocalist was Jin, who subsequently also left the group, having revived former brutal-death project NECROMAYHEM. Then followed performances on Ryazan concert stages together with KILL ALL DJ'S, HEADLINERS, IMPERIA, TOMATO KILLAZ, etc. Subsequently structure of HOSTILE CALM periodically was in a fever - someone gone, someone came when in 2005 the structure was stabilized and the group recommenced the performances in Ryazan, Moscow and started the recording of an album. Earlier, in the beginning of 2000 the group has recorded demo Mournful Abyss in house conditions, 4 things from it: "Head-ransom", "The Dream", "Born By Autumnal Night" and "Delirious" will be in a studio album, which release is planned for the beginning of 2007. About music files: The Dream – the classic melodic doom, a homage to My Dying Bride and slow songs of Hypocrisy. Head-ransom – melodic black-death hymn, based on the lyrics of Egill Skallagrimsson – ancient Icelandic warrior and poet. Music close to some songs from Amorphis "Elegy". The Last Beast - our favorite song on this album. Just listen... Farewell - an experiment with the simple structures. Beautiful melody, powerful chords, strongly emotional female vocal along the song.

source: http://myspace.com/hostilecalm  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hostile+Calm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.