There’s more than one band named Hostility:
1)American band that destroys with their unrelenting blend of spastic hardcore and heavier-than-your-mom groove metal. The band consists of Greg Haran (vocals), Vorrises (guitar), Brandon Sigmund (bass), and Andrew Holzbaur (drums). Their style of music could best be described as taking the pure metal elements of bands like Pantera, Machine Head and Slipknot and infusing them with some of the controlled chaos of bands like Premonitions of War and Ion Dissonance. Has at least two albums, 2001’s Another Statistic, and 2006’s Uncompromised.

2) Polish anarcho-hardcore-punk band that used to play heavy crust. Started in early 90s as more straight forward crustcore and developed to slower, heavier and pretty depressing stuff with obvious Misery (Minneapolis) influence. Their discography consists of: unreleased demo tape, split demo with FEAR OF CONFORM and “…I Niech Jeden Strzal…” cassette album. They also recorded 4 songs for the 7” EP to be released on Scream Records (Poland) but never finished the artwork so the tracks remain unreleased.

3)Canadian grind band from Edmonton Alberta. They had Brett, Tom, Blare and some girl. Broken up now and the after-math of the band=Hatred of Humanity. Still Edmonton based, same members, minus the girl.

4) A band from Andover, Kansas who released one album & several demos under this name before they changed their name to GULCH in the late 90’s. (Review of 1995’s Brick via Chronicles of Chaos )

Hostility - Brick_
(Century Media, 1995)
by: Adrian Bromley (7 out of 10)
Pantera 101 if you ask me - but that is a good thing to see. With the definite growl and bite of Pantera and the heart and soul of a strong-willed hardcore/metal outfit, Kansas’ Hostility blow through the ten tracks found on their debut, and not once sound monotonous or bland. This band can really stick it to you hard with numbers like ‘Spine’, the stupendous ‘Above’, and the crash and burn attitude of closers ‘Self Belief’ and ‘One Wrong Word’. Singer Dean Brook shifts from a Phil Anselmo vocal style to a Burton C. Bell (Fear Factory) approach, and back and forth which allows his vocal sound and structure to show off his variety. One of the best numbers is ‘Goodbye’, a stirring number dedicated to Dean and his brother Duane’s (drums) late father. This band would probably be amazing live just because of the precision sound the band conveys. I am waiting to check them out as soon as they make their way here, up North. Reckless and on the verge of anarchy, Hostility’s debut is worthy of a good LOUD listen.

http://www.chroniclesofchaos.com/reviews/albums/2-52_hostility_brick.aspx <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hostility">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.