HOTEL WRECKING CITY TRADERS (Melbourne, Australia):

Ben - one drumkit
Toby - one guitar

Hotel Wrecking City Traders (HWCT) have been dislodging earwax, busting strings and sticks and blowing minds since 2007. HWCT are an instrumental noise rock duo with a heavy focus on improvisation and a love of loud volume and the psychedelic. Their sound is ever-evolving and expansive, breaking down genre’s and throwing them in a melting pot with hypnotic results.

Ben Wrecker was also personally invited by Winnebago Deal (UK) to play drums in the band on their debut tour of Australia in 2008. In 2010, the band released a collaborative LP with Desert Rock Forefather Gary Arce (Yawning Man, Dark Tooth Encounter, Sort of Quartet) on Bro Fidelity Records (Australia) // Cobraside Distribution (USA).  An offer from Gary that eventuated from HWCT supporting Ten East on tour in Australia in 2009.  Ben Wrecker was also personally invited to play drums by Nick Oliveri (Kyuss, Queens of the Stone Age) in his Mondo Generator project in 2010 for a US tour w/ Aussie's Violent Soho and Tweak Bird (USA).

HWCT have played shows in support of: Nunchukka Superfly (Aust), Om (USA), The Hard-Ons (Aust), Black Cobra (USA), Grey Daturas (Aust), Russian Circles (USA), Winnebago Deal (UK), Ten East (USA), Karma to Burn (USA), Thrones (USA), Monarch (Fr), Ryouchi (Jpn), Earthless (USA), Saint Vitus (USA), Budd (Aust), Eagle Twin (USA), Electric Eel Shock (Jpn), My Disco (Aust), Lichens (USA) and many more…

In November, 2012, then band toured Japan for the first time, taking in 8 dates across the country with Aussie's Spider Goat Canyon and a split album 'Japan Tour Split' - was released in honor of the tour on Bro Fidelity Records.

In 2014, the band will embark on their first tour of Europe with a slot at the annual Desertfest Festival in London. They will be the first ever Australian band to be invited to play this prestigious festival. They are recording their 3rd full length LP in January 2014, with Jason PC (Brutal Truth) set to be released in conjunction with their European Tour, as well as an extensive tour of their homeland of Australia.

April 2014 saw the release of "Ikiryo" featuring 5 brand new songs.  The CD comes in a gatefold wallet with artwork from Mauro149 (Truly Design). It was recorded with Jason Fuller (Brutal Truth, Blood Duster). 

RELEASES:

'EP' (CD) 2007
'Black Yolk’ (CD) 2008
'Somer/Wantok’ (7 Inch vinyl) 2009
'Hotel Wrecking City Traders & Gary Arce s/t (12 Inch Vinyl) 2010
'Split w/WaterWays/Sons of Alpha Centauri' (12 Inch Vinyl) 2012
'Japan Tour Split w/ Spider Goat Canyon' (CD) 2012
'Ikiryo' (CD) 2014 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hotel+Wrecking+City+Traders">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.