HOUSE OF MIRRORS was born in 1993 when Jaakko Niitemaa, a promising young guitarist, teamed up with vocalist Pekka Rautiainen and guitarist Kari Riihimäki (who contributes lyrics to the band), both formerly of WARDANCE fame. In 1995, after a number of 8-track demos the band finally went to a real recording studio and with high hopes recorded their first true demo. This time the line-up was strengthened by Janne Engblom (of BEAT fame) on bass, and the former drummer for IRON CROSS, Jimbo Mäkeläinen on drums. The demo was well received and got a fair amount of airplay on Finnish radio stations. Janne's visit in HOUSE OF MIRRORS remained a short one, the 1995 recording was the only one in which he featured.
For a while, nothing really happened for the band and years went by with Jaakko teaching the guitar in a small local music school. Pekka got signed by EMI Finland and made a successful pop record "Haaveiden Hotelli" using the name Julius. Single cuts from the record were played all over the Finnish radio and it also took him all the way to Helsinki Olympic Stadium where he sang in front of 50,000 people, opening for none other than TINA TURNER. All the time Jaakko kept the HOUSE OF MIRRORS flame burning by continuously writing new songs and slowly starting to build a home studio.
Millions of song demos, many failed band attempts and a short period of life as a hermit, the year 2000 saw the band form again, this time with Rasmus Puranen on drums and Harri Holopainen on bass. With a totally fresh attitude and a new spark the band went in to record another demo in a professional studio. The band themselves were so astonished with the quality of the recording that it alone has kept them going this far. With record companies demanding more material, the band cooked up more songs and went back to the recording studio, this time with a completely new approach. Having decided to devote time and care to the new songs, a self-financed single, a total of 3 songs were recorded. Of course, the bad luck with bass players continued again when Harri had a small accident and was unable to play. The band had to employ yet another bass player, Juha Paananen (formerly the bassist for LALALAA etc.). And to add to the insult to the injury, Rasmus couldn't participate the recording sessions due to other obligations. Luckily, Jimbo Mäkeläinen got excited about the new music and after minor persuasion decided to play the drums on the recording. Jonne Valtonen (aka Purple Motion) joined the recording sessions and played all the keyboards.
In 2003, House of Mirrors signed a deal with ESCAPE MUSIC, and in February 2004 their debut album was completed, using the talented mastering of Mika Jussila at Finnvox Studios in Helsinki. The band is in high spirits and in better shape than ever, and even though they just had their 10-year anniversary, the band feels more energetic than ever to meet their future challenges! 
In 2006 second album out (Desolation) 

In 2007
http://www.aorheaven.com/

Lead Vocals: Pekka Rautiainen
Guitars: Jaakko Niitemaa
Bass: Juha Paananen
Drums: Jimbo Mäkeläinen
Keys: Jonne Valtonen

http://www.house-of-mirrors.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/House+Of+Mirrors">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.