Originally from Chicago, Houses is Dexter Tortoriello and Megan Messina. They formed in 2010 after a 3 month stint in Papaikou, Hawaii, living off the land.  With no modern conveniences the couple worked for meals during the day cultivating indigenous micro-organisms and learning the basics of sustainable living. This was the inspiration behind their first album, All Night, put out on Lesfe Records.  

In the time since the couple have moved to Los Angeles, signed to Downtown Records (Major Lazer, White Denim, Cold War Kids, Miike Snow, Santigold) and written their sophomore album, A Quiet Darkness (2013). Recorded over the course of 2012 splitting time between their new home and Sonic Ranch, the album's narrative tells the story of a husband and wife separated in the midst of a nuclear disaster and their attempt to re-unite with one another along the Highway 10 in California before their inevitable deaths, each song taking place in different abandoned houses along the way.  

Tortoriello and Messina made the same trek a couple of times themselves to record sound and video at these abandoned houses that are featured in the album. The album's celestial ambiance and wanderlust concepts are conveyed throughout the recording with techniques employed by Tortoriello's production and the stark contrast between the minimal electronic pulses, found sounds and meandering and melancholy harmonies.

There are other artists calling themselves Houses:


2) an alternative pop band from Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
3) a psychedelic rock and roll revival band from Denver, Colorado, United States.
4) a four piece grind band from Reno, Nevada, United States.

Additional info on each band:

2. Houses is an indie pop band from Amsterdam, The Netherlands, that has been compared by the press to North-American acts such as Broken Social Scene and Death Cab For Cutie. Thusfar they released an EP (End Of Story, 2010) and one full-length album (Clean Life, 2011).

Houses is: Jeroen Roelofsen, Manuel van den Berg, Ella van der Woude, Tobias Ponsioen en Gijs Loots.

3. Houses is a Denver, Colorado, seven-piece formed by Andy Hamilton in early Spring 2008. They re-wrote all their songs in Summer, played their first show in Autumn and rocked out the year that Winter. They released a series of four seasonally themed EPs.

4. Houses is a four piece grind band from Reno, Nevada, United States. They have released one demo with eight tracks. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Houses">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.