How to Destroy Angels is a musical project from Los Angeles, California and announced in April 2010. The band features Trent Reznor, his wife Mariqueen Reznor, and Atticus Ross. Rob Sheridan  is the group's art director. The band is named after How to Destroy Angels, the first single by Coil.  

The band's first release was a self-titled EP, released on June 1, 2010. The band released a track from the album, "A Drowning", as a digital single, and a second song, "The Space in Between", debuted as a video on Pitchfork on May 14, 2010. A third track, "The Believers", was made available through Wired magazine's iPad application, along with a dissection and analysis of the song, and through a free digital download from the official website. "The Believers" is also featured on the soundtrack of the 2011 film Limitless.

The band recorded a cover of the Bryan Ferry song "Is Your Love Strong Enough?," which was released December 9, 2011 on the soundtrack for The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.

On 21 September 2012, Trent Reznor posted an update on the band's Facebook page confirming new activity. He revealed that the band has "partnered" with Columbia Records for the next series of releases - 'An Omen' EP, which was released on 13th November 2012, and their full-length debut album titled "Welcome Oblivion" which was later released March 4, 2013. He also revealed that videos would made and that the band would be performing live, but did not have any further details. On 25th September 2012, Mariqueen Reznor posted a picture of the cover of the vinyl version of the An Omen EP via her twitter account.

Since then, How To Destroy Angels has toured on a limited scale including performances at Coachella 2013 and appearances with Trent Reznor's main project Nine Inch Nails, as well as releasing music videos for Ice Age and How Long, directed by John Hillcoat and Shynola, respectively. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/How+to+Destroy+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.