From the band's mypace: 

Cold and grim early 90´s inspired Norsk black metal, resurrecting sounds and ideals from the masters and creators of the genre, Hrimthurs gives rise to works reminiscent of Burzum and Dark Throne with hateful and expressive vocals compared to that of a tortured soul. The guitar riffs of Hrimthurs are considered by many in the underground to be of invaluable quality, for they are different to those of modern day black metal bands as they have ties to the early thrash roots from where black metal was spawned. Hrimthurs stands out from today´s underground black metal scene because his works are more focused on the expressions and atmospheres that gave birth to the original scene in Norway some years ago, claiming that it is very important to keep the old sound alive and not let the expression in the music be dictated by the speed. Musically, Hrimthurs has an authentic, traditional and somewhat primitive approach as a focal point; this overall sound is due to him thinking it imperative to keep the cultural identity in all black metal compositions. Although thinking that it takes much talent to create and execute black metal and death black metal subgenres, which dominate the scene today, in fairness the respective origins are being lost and somewhat forgotten or unthought of... Amidst the raw guitars and hateful vocals there is also a very unique angle in which Hrimthurs conducts his dark arts. Although stylistically and idealistically Hrimthurs portrays much candid hatred and abhorrence to the principles of expression in which he has applied, to the same degree there is also an entire spectrum of love for tradition: landscape and all things beautiful, which were once predominant in the world. This is portrayed through not only the generic ideals and set up of the music, but it is more strongly expressed through other instrumentations. These instrumentations appear both as an accompaniment to the raw and hateful black art in the form of pagan ambient and folk elements, as well as single passages with the use of harps, flutes, piccolos, oboes and tribal hand percussion. In 2004, Hrimthurs released his debut promotional 2 disc album entitled “WAR OF THE AGES”. This album has received much acclaim from the black metal underground in Europe, getting overwhelming responses from bands such as: Arkona, MZ412, Ravensblood, Attila Csihar (of black metal legends MAYHEM), and many others, this was accompanied by great feedback from labels and black metal fans alike. “WAR OF THE AGES” as a double CD release, exemplifies a completely different sound in either disc, each encompassing separate worlds of black metal. The first disc is comprised of five “old school” black metal tracks containing interwoven pagan keyboard atmospheres. This sound is very much in the vein of Burzum, Dark Throne and Nargaroth. The second disc however is an entrancing and overall new experience. It is a musical world of Medieval and fantastical atmosphere, which when composed was intended to take the listener into deep explorations of the mind. This disc was designed to surround you in a contoured world of landscape and dream that is to evoke many thoughts, feelings and emotions. The foundations are laid with layered and technical guitar bombardments and whirlwind blast beating, creating a signature Hrimthurs arsenal. Throughout every track and even every section you will find new and enthralling elements. This tailored world has multiple levels holding a different focus, further revealing sudden pathways to the next step of the journey. These are the rapid riffing with drums which create the unholy infernal black experience, as well as the layered keyboarding, which further more creates the majestic/Viking/battle metal atmospheres. This is topped off with interludes of Medieval/Scandinavian/Celtic folk, giving the listen an overall pagan fantasy feel. The keyboards used to enrich and create this album span through ages and traditions and use an army of different instruments, having each song assigned to its own unique and stimulating atmosphere, ranging from dark ambient Medieval chamber music to Celtic overtures to Baroque intermezzos. In the end of 2005 and beginning of 2006 Siggeir begin writing new material for his second full length album and a European tour was expected. After Siggeir found that labels, distros, etc all over the world have been re pressing “WAR OF THE AGES” and selling it without his authorization and other things that make him put all in ice without believing in underground scene anymore. In 2007 the pagan flames raised again and some songs will be recorded for the next work and HRIMTHURS are able to talk with some interested labels. Hrimthurs thanks everyone who has helped to see in his vision and urges those who believe in the ideals of what true black metal stands for to join him! "The battle can be won if we unite! I hope to see you all by the thrones of Armageddon and all those who oppose, to die upon this world with what you have made of it!" HRIMTHURS - “WAR OF THE AGES” This album is not available in stores, labels, distros world-wide just can be purchased at Metal Mayhem, Melbourne, Australia or in Mistress Dance Records from Portugal. 

Members
Siggeir Hrimthurs - All Instruments, Vocals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hrimthurs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.