Hubert Kah is a German synthpop band, led by Hubert Kemmler (born 22 March 1961 in Reutlingen). Kemmler is a German musician, composer, songwriter and producer. 

Kemmler's career began as a member of a trio named Hubert Kah, consisting of Hubert Kemmler (vocals, keyboards), Markus Löhr (guitars, keyboards) and Klaus Hirschburger (bass) at the time of the New German wave 1982 commercial success with the singles "Rosemarie", "Sternenhimmel" ("Starry Sky") and "Einmal Nur Mit Erika... (Dieser Welt Entfliehn)" ("Just Once With Erika ... To Escape This World"), and with the albums Meine Höhepunkte ("My High Points") and Ich Komme ("I'm Coming"). During this time, Kemmler caused quite a stir by his TV appearances, wearing a nightdress or straitjacket. Before Kemmler's music career, he studied law at the University of Tübingen.[2]

As of 1984, the band began working with producer Michael Cretu. After a German album Goldene Zeiten (1984), the band recorded the English-language albums Tensongs (1986) and Sound of My Heart (1989), which were partly successful internationally. Together with Michael Cretu, Kemmler wrote and produced songs for other artists, including "Dancing into Danger" by Inker & Hamilton, "Liebe Auf Den Ersten Blick" by the band Münchener Freiheit and a number of tracks by Sandra such as "Maria Magdalena", "Heaven Can Wait". Hubert Kemmler also contributed backing vocals to most of Sandra's hit singles between 1985 and 1989.[3]

Kemmler fell ill in the latter 1980s with depression and withdrew from music completely. After his recovery, he appeared with a new version of the band in 1996 with the self-titled Hubert Kah and the singles "C'est La Vie" and "Sailing". The production with classic elements was not commercially as successful as hoped for by Kemmler. In 1998, a new single "Love Chain" and a Best Of CD were released. Kemmler then became ill again and had to undergo medical treatment.[1]

In 2005, Kemmler began his second comeback with the album Seelentaucher ("Soul Diver"). The first single was called "No Rain". The album featured a mixture of English and German language tracks.[4]

In the spring of 2007, Kemmler went as Ice King Kini in the musical Princess Lillifee, on tour in Germany. On 26 May 2007, he was one of four guests of honor at the acoustic concert of the band ASP on the Wave-Gotik-Treffen 2007 in Leipzig.

Kemmler recorded new songs with Sandra for her new album Stay in Touch, which was released in late 2012.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hubert+Kah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.