Surt and Thorgrim have been playing together in several metal projects since high school, including Dark Eden, considered by many the best Brazilian doom metal band ever. They were later joined by Modi and Hjalmar, long time friends and brothers of war. In the last days of 2007 the four members decided they wanted to play heavier than ever and make songs about their passion: Norse mythology and Vikings. Hugin Munin was born. The band was initially called Gungnir, but due to copyright issues they became Hugin Munin right after the first song “Die for Odin” was finished. The song was a combination of power and melody, and it was soon followed by Battle for Asgard and A Viking Funeral. It was clear that they had developed an identity of their own, and it was time to start recording. --- RISE OF THE SOUTHERN BERSERKERS --- 2008 was a year of many achievements for Hugin Munin. After recording their first single: “A Viking Funeral”, which hit hard the Brazilian underground scene, Carcharoth joined the group and the band’s line up was finally settled. With this formation the band performed live in Brazil several times and is about to conquer new shores. When the EP Ravens Empire was released they were pointed by many, including Brazilian’s biggest heavy metal magazine: Roadie Crew, as the next in line to becoming the greatest Viking metal band to ever rise in South America. --- THE VIKING BROTHERS --- Usually called by European fans and friends as “Viking brothers from the south” and “berserkers from the south”, the band has become largely known and has received great support from metalheads worldwide. Greatly expected, Their first full length album will be released in 2010, after the new EP “Die for Odin” to hammer smash any doubts that these five warriors are here to stay. The Viking family grows stronger each day, and in the name of Odin, we shall prevail!!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hugin+Munin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.