Huldre is a Danish folk metal act with strong emphasis on the folk elements of this genre. Pulling on the varied backgrounds of its seasoned and experienced musicians, Huldre creates heavy and melodic folk metal based on the legacy of medieval Danish and Nordic folk music.

The emphasis on the folk elements was clearly noted by Anders Bøtter of "Sort Søndag", a Danish radio program dedicated to metal, when he said "where other folkmetal bands play metal with added folk, Huldre plays folk with added metal".

Huldre has been compared to bands like early Lumsk and Gåte while the live performances has been described as "[...]this could easily have been a dance-moshpit which could rival the best of Korpiklaani" (Metalmoments.net).

Huldres first full-length album "Intet Menneskebarn" was released at summer solstice 2012.

Huldre has its beginnings back in 2006 with Bjarne Kristiansen (Bass), Laura Beck (Violin) and Nanna Barslev (Vocals) but it wasn't until early 2009 that Huldre, as you know it today, really started to take shape with the addition of Lasse Olufson (Guitar) and Mikael Skou (Drums).

In late 2009 Mikael left the band to pursue other goals and his replacement was found in drummer Jacob Lund and during the following year Huldre recorded a low-budget, selftitled 5-track demo and made it available to the public for free.

In 2010 the band was joined by Aarhus based flute and hurdy-gurdy player Troels Nørgaard and thus the lineup of today was complete.

The 6 members of Huldre have backgrounds in genres such as trad. acoustic medieval music, death & black metal, reggae, trad. Danish folk music, classical music and from bands such as Gny, Lurpakket, Asynje, Virelai, Submission, Eldjudnir, Roskilde Symphony Orchestra and Voodoom.

Current lineup: 

Bjarne Kristiansen - Bass (2009 - present)
Jacob Lund - Drums (2009 - present)
Lasse Olufson - Guitars (2009 - present)
Laura Emilie Beck - Violin (2009 - present)
Nanna Barslev - Vocal, lyrics (2009 - present)
Troels Nørgaard - Flute, Hurdy Gurdy (2010 - present)

Official website: http://www.huldre.dk/
Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/huldremetal
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Huldre <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Huldre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.