Founded in February 2004, Human Demise is a hardcore band from the southern part of The Netherlands. After all playing in previous bands, four individuals combined their musical abilities and creativity into a blend of modern hardcore with a touch of the dark side of metal.

Sick, anger-spitting lyrics with heavy guitar parts and bone crushing drum parts make the band one heavy experience you must see live on stage. Human Demise brings you crushing, bile spitting hardcore with dark metallic twists. Their singer has got one hell of a throat; his downright spine-chilling screams fit the ominous atmosphere perfectly.

Whether you call it Holy Terror, Cleveland-style hardcore, just plain metalcore, or whatever tag you want to pin on it, fact remains that this band will blow you away.

In October 2004, Human Demise recorded a three song demo in De Studio in Belgium which has been sold over 500 times the first year it was out.

Human Demise has shared the stage with bands like Sick of it All, Madball, Terror, Cold As Life, Rise and Fall and No Turning Back. The band still gets an excellent response for their live act, songs and overall atmosphere.

To enhance their live sound Human Demise added a second guitarist in January 2005. Human Demise hit the studio again in August 2005 to record their 7 song MCD, entitled "Whitechapel Demise".

"Whitechapel Demise" has received many great reviews by various zines such as Rock Tribune, Aversion Online, Planet Loud, Scenepointblank and Kindamuzik.

The GSR sampler, released in September 2006, contains an exclusive track from Human Demise, entitled "Unstoppable Machines".

Human Demise is also appearing on the "Harder They Fall: A Tribute To Integrity" album by Escapist Records, with Integrity's "Psychological Warfare" released earlier this year.

Furthermore some touring info: Human Demise has toured through Germany in August 2005; early in 2006 a short Spanish tour followed up by a trip to Finland in March and a second tour in Spain in July. In april 2007 Human Demise did a short tour through France and last August/September Human Demise supported the European reunion tour of Detroit's Cold as Life with H8 Inc. May 2008 brought Human Demise back to Finland.

New releases from Human Demise are scheduled this year: a split 7" titled “Agony.Anxiety.Acceptance.” and their long awaited full length!

This is far from over; Human Demise will bring you Hell on stage.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Human+Demise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.