Humanoid is the name of at least 6 artists:

1) Humanoid is an early electronic acid / techno project by Brian Dougans of The Future Sound of London - most famous for the 1988 track Stakker Humanoid, one of the first acid house tracks to reach the UK mainstream. The project was revived in 2018, with a new album - "Built by Humanoid" - released in 2019.

2) Humanoid is an alias of Bemani composer DJ YOSHITAKA.

3) Humanoid is the name of a progressive instrumental band showcasing Mathieu Marcotte, guitarist of Augury.

Originating from Abitibi, in the north of Quebec, Canada, Mathieu Marcotte started playing guitar in 1990 at the age of 14. His growing passion for both metal and classical music inspired him to compose with electrical and classical guitars at the same time. After putting together a few compositions, he decided, accompanied by local musicians, to form the death metal band Spasme, who during their 7 years of existence, were know by touring throughout Quebec. Two recordings were produced by the band, that is to say the demo “Traumatism” (Indie, 1995) and the album “Deep Inside” (Neoblast rec, 1999 / Galy rec, 2001).

2001 marked the beginning of a new era as Mathieu chose to quit the formation “Spasme” to concentrate on the elaboration of a new group. It is with the collaboration of experimented and talented musicians from the Quebec metal scene that he founded Augury in 2002, an extreme/ progressive/ metal band. Weaving a musical style proper to themselves, “Augury” is noticed internationally with the release of “Concealed” (Galy Records, 2004), album which was worthy of a nomination at the MIMI’S gala in Montreal and an excellent reception from critics, medias and fans of metal music throughout the world. Two Canadian tours took place thereafter with “Quo Vadis” and “Unexpect”, respectively in 2005 and 2006. During this intense period where the band played many shows, they took the time to record a “promo-ep” consisting of two new tracks and release the European version of “Concealed” on Adipocère Records.

A research of sound, combined with great musical curiosity, led Mathieu to develop an idea in the beginning of 2006: Set-up an acoustic project combining all of his progressive, classical and metal influences.

4) Humanoid is a heavy instrumental/experimental band from New Haven, CT.

5) Humanoid is a German artist hailing from the Tracker music scene who made music for the demogroup "Morbid Minds" in the 90s.

6) Humanoid is a Portuguese stoner rock/ psychedelic rock from Porto, Portugal.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Humanoid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.