These days most Melodic Death Metal bands bore the Metal Movement with stereotyped lyrics and uniform songs and sounds, slavishly catering to the whims of fashion or making futile attempts at resurrecting bygone splendour. Among few others, HUMAN DEBRIS stayed true to the both innovative and traditional sound they keep developing since the dawn of the millennium. By combining fast melodies, brutal breaks, intoxicating grooves and must-mosh riffs crowned with versatile vocals, HUMAN DEBRIS deliver full-HD melodic death metal, spiked with progressive arrangements, classic heavy metal and folkish influences guaranteed to make you beg for more! HUMAN DEBRIS prove time and again their rare ability to blend several different influences, thereby creating a unique sound which unifies the glories of the past with the adventures of the future…

Unlike most bands in comparable genres, HUMAN DEBRIS sees no motive to commit itself to any mystical themes in the broadest sense, but rather concerns itself – as reflected in its name –with the innumerable mental, interpersonal and social abysses of human nature.

In the year 2000 CE, somewhere in the back of beyond in northen Germany, somewhere near Itzehoe, Quickborn, Elmshorn and Wrist, among potatoes and manure, S.E.B. and Svemu went peat-cutting and stumbled upon the foundations of Human Debris.
Since the spade was ruined now anyway and the two happened to have their guitars as well as a crate of beer with them, they resolved to drink and play the summer sun away.
Ever since the band creates sophisticated Death Metal.
Shortly thereafter Timo took up his place behind the drums. Soon the trio turned away from this style of music and left the band, as they wanted to play classic Death Metal including brutal riffs and two-voiced guitars.

HUMAN DEBRIS was born. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Human+Debris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.