BAND

Humangod is an upcoming new metal band from Finland. The band was started in 2009 by Juha Väinölä (guitars) and Janne Kauppi (vocals) who wanted to create quality metal music by absorbing progressive elements while maintaining total freedom of creativity. The main goal is to make diverse, atmospheric, but still hard rocking metal songs including variety of different emotions.

HISTORY SO FAR...

Janne Kauppi and Juha Väinölä played together in a hard rock band called Freakthrone. At first the band was doing fine and had a lot of gigs around Finland, but unfortunately some internal problems started to occur between the members and sadly this forced Freakthrone to split-up. Kauppi & Väinölä were both huge fans of progressive music scene and traditional heavy metal/rock. So during some intensive drinking sessions they started to talk about forming a new band together. It was clear that they wanted to continue cooperation after Freakthrone, because they always got along very well and had some good musical chemistry. This time it was clear that the style would definitely be the kind of music they always admired and listened to at home. Humangod was about being born.

Kauppi and Väinölä started to write songs together while adding "musicians wanted" requests over some popular finnish music sites at the same time. It took awhile before the group got it's form. Three awesome musicians joined the madness, Ville Terämä (Bass), Aki Kuokkanen (Drums) and Lari Kettunen (Keyboards). After the line-up was ready they started to sweat together at rehearsals for a good couple of months getting prepared to record the first promo cd. Kauppi and Väinölä continued writing new songs for the band, as they still do. At the end of 2009 they booked a few days of recording time at D-studio, Klaukkala. The result of these sessions is "Connecting to humanity" promo. So plug in your speakers and become a human god...

OFFICIAL WEBSITE:

www.humangodband.com

LINE UP:

JANNE KAUPPI - VOCALS
JUHA VÄINÖLÄ - GUITARS
AKI KUOKKANEN - DRUMS <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Humangod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.