In the beginning, Human Parasite was the Trash’s one man project (bass and vocals) which was technical Brutal Death style. After some compositions and attempts, this project fizzled out. 

After a long moment, H.P sees the light again during summer 2008 with a real line up compacted of: 
Jay: Guitars -(also guitar player in Rising Purge (Death Metal)). 
Tchang: Drums -(also drummer in Blood Taste (Brutal Death), ex Evict (Death Metal)).
Trash: Vocals -(also bass player in Goryptic (Brutal Death), ex HxCxF (Gonzo Grindcore), ex Evict). 

The 3 guys play a brutal music of course, but especially steered towards heavy groove; band influences go from Suffocation (Masters of Death Metal) to Devourment (Slamming Death pioneers) going through Dying Fetus, Soils of Fate, Lividity or Carnivore Diprosopus and many more, finally to give a : 

Total-Punishing-Ultra-Guttural-Sick-Slamming-Brutal-Death !! 


Human Parasite tries to turn to account F-C / DM (Besançon, FRanche-Comté / Death Metal) colors and support an effervescent scene. 

Conceptually, lyrics are chocking and focuse on human twists, depravations and other misuses, all those daily human facts which conclude man is a disgraceful cancer for himself and everything around him, Human is a fucking Parasite … 

The style is definitely heavy and dirty Slamming Death, without technical claims. The aim is not unremittingly brutality but frantic head banging! To cut a long story short, playing music which breaks your legs and makes you drink beers!! 

In the beginning 2009, Human Parasite is proud to welcome : 
Biere : Bass -(also guitarist in Blood Taste (Brutal Death), ex Evict).
Human Parasite shared the stage with bands as Katalepsy, EBDB, Disparaged, Recueil Morbide, Smetti Duchu, Run of Lava, War before Negociation, Burn Our Mind, Captain Spaulding etc. 

In 2010, Human Parasite put out their debut album (8 tracks of Brutal Slamming Death) untitled "Proud to Build the Insidious Catastrophe" throught the russian label SFC records !! Several gigs are coming, and HP is now ready to grind everything which cross its way... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Human+Parasite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.