The name “Hummingbird” is used by a couple of artists:

1) Hummingbird is an Alternative-Experimental band from Jakarta, Indonesia. They already have a few full-length demo called “Aisle”. Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/gohummingbird
 
2) Hummingbird (not to be confused with the 70’s band of the same name) is the non de plume of an otherwise well known composer… (see below for main biography).

Continue from 1)
Started with Alwin Muhaimin’s (Vocal, Guitar) and Kipe Pratama’s (Bass) boredom of their previous music experiences, this pop-punk band was created genuinely for them to be able to pour out their idealistic idea of music and to also join the list of the nation’s great artists and musicians. As former members of Jakarta’s experimental screamo band Genetic of Human, Alwin and Kipe then asked Almas Makitsuna (Drum) from the band Mati Lampu to come and join them to make some beautiful music together. After some tough brainstorming within the three of them, the main concept of this band had finally been established and agreed. Soon after, songs were being created. Through this time they felt like there was still something that was not quite right yet with the formation of the band. This triggered the boys to recruit Adhiala Zyggo Barano (Vocal, Guitar) from the Deadly Offbeat Owl as the final member of the band Hummingbird. Their different backgrounds and styles of music produces a quirky-fun yet easy to digest music that can be enjoyed by many music appreciators.

Since the year 2009, Hummingbird has played in various stages and events including school parties and graduations, sport matches, and also a charity music event.

Continue from 2)
behind the album “Our Fearful Symmetry”, which defines elements within the modern classical genre. It includes subtle string arrangements mixed with echoes of piano notes, fused with hallmarks of the electro-acoustic genre – waves of static, white noise and field recordings tangle with layers of fragmented texture that create both the foreground and background.

From the sparse nature of opening track “Uncertainty in Copenhagen”, the album leads into a myriad spectrum of haunting environments both soothing and unsettling — a reflection of the modern neurosis that albums like “OK Computer” documented, and the veins that artists Max Richter, Peter Broderick and Machinefabriek continue to mine.

Hummingbird treads carefully on the line of fact and fiction, creating a solace of sound by both live instrumentation and automated means. “Our Fearful Symmetry” reveals beautiful and thought-provoking music, dizzying and imaginative in detail which will impart a self-conscious resonance into any listener.

Listeners drawn to the mysterious nature of the project will soon find themselves rewarded with a cohesive journey through 11 tracks that reward repeated visits, with rich reverbed soundscapes that are both familiar and distant. One can only hope that the person behind the veil continues to toil in obscurity to bring more of such material to the surface (even if it remains unattributed).

“Our Fearful Symmetry” comes packaged in handmade, letter-pressed sleeves. Each issue is accompanied with an original photographic polaroid slide, dating back to the 1940’s. The release is limited to one hundred copies and will not be made available digitally.

3) Hummingbird are Amy Wadge, Cathy Burton and Edwina Hayes. They met on the festival circuit in the UK over the last five years and decided in late 2005 that there was safety in numbers, and so formed a band. This is not a collection of doe eyed teenagers, whose mother sent them to a stage school and are now looking to marry a footballer. These are three professional musicians, who make a living, almost, from music as well as doing a multitude of other jobs (dog walking, working in a crouton factory, barmaid etc etc)… Anything that needs to be done, to get a collection of battered Japanese cars to the next gig.
They have amassed 9 record deals, 11 lawyers and 14 managers between them. They could write the Beginners guide to the music biz if someone thought it would sell and if they could find a manager, lawyer, publisher and agent. They teamed up with the Mighty Vibration production team in January 2006, and made their debut album They Dont Make Mirrors Like They Used To. Somewhere between Kirsty Macoll and a female Crosby Stills and Nash. This is a collection of 11 songs that really do show that a combined thirty years on the road, means practise makes perfect and believing Richard Thompson to be a sex symbol is no shame.


4) Hummingbird was a British band, formed in 1974 by Bobby Tench of The Jeff Beck Group and Streetwalkers fame. Hummingbird recorded three successful albums, released by A&M using Ian “Sammy” Samwell as their record producer. The original line up included members of the second Jeff Beck Group, vocalist and guitarist Bobby Tench, keyboardist Max Middleton, Clive Chaman on bass, Conrad Isidore on drums and second guitarist Bernie Holland. After the first album Bernie Holland was replaced by guitarist Robert Awhai and drummer Bernard “Pretty” Purdie replaced Isidore on the next two albums. They had success mainly in the USA, also in Europe and Japan. Linda Lewis sang backing vocals on their first album. Vocalists Madeline Bell and Liza Strike were brought in to compliment the band on the next two albums. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hummingbird">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.