Humus is the name of at least four bands:

1. A jazz, folk and tango band from Netherlands 
2. A hardchore band from Netherlands
3. A Kosovar Albanian rock band
4. A black metal band from France
5. A hardcore-punk band from Italy.
6. A stoner rock band from Mexico.
7. A post-hardcore band from the Basque Country.

1. Amsterdam-based band Humus combines poetry from all over the English speaking world with jazzy, folky and tango-style music. The lyrics are about e.g. passion, loneliness, changing of the seasons, transitoriness, war and lust for life. Humus was founded in 2004 and consists of Astrid Leuvering (vocals), Ed van Nunen (guitar & mandola), Vincent van Dam (violin), Bas van Waard (cello) and Job Verweijen (percussion) .
The six-track cd "Acquainted With The Night" was released in March 2007 and had positive reviews in the press in Holland, Belgium and Poland. Humus has recorded a new EP (Moving In) in February 2009 and it will come out around March 2009.
The Press about "Acquainted With The Night":
- "Pure beauty for the broad-minded": LiveXS, Dutch music magazine
- "Literary and musical fireworks from The Netherlands": folkroddels.be
- "Folk music isn’t dull at all. Humus proves it. Wonderful": MusicFrom.nl
- "There is much to be enjoyed for the attentive listener": FRET
- "Humus to szalenie oryginalna grupa": www.folkowa.art.pl
As there are more bands with the name Humus, see the official lastfm page from the Amsterdam-based Humus here: Humus - Amsterdam with the latest music and events.
Official website: www.humusweb.nl. 

2. Humus was an Alkmaar based Hardcore / Crust band from 2001 - 2006. Featuring members of Betercore, Sack O'Woes and Man Made Filth. Released a ten song tape in 2002, a tour cd-r in 2003 and a 7" split record with Lärm in 2004. Currently (Nov. 2008) an American label is interested in releasing their last recording which remains on the shelf until this very day.
Peter: Vocals / GeertJan: Guitar / Wouter: Guitar / Fleur: Bass / Robert: Drums

3. Humus is an Albanian rock band from Kosovo. 

4. Humus is a black metal band from France.  They have one album released thus far, entitled "Art Noir Clandestin", on Schattenkult Produktionen.  http://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Humus/3540333255 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Humus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.