Born from a shared passion for metal music in all its forms, Cardiff-based band HUNTED began life as a four-piece covering the bands that first inspired them to play. The band's early quest to develop their own unique sound led to several changes of personnel but developed over time into the rock-solid core of guitarist Steve Barberini, bassist Jon Letson, drummer Matt ‘Animal’ Thomas and vocalist Chris G.

Having begun to cement a fierce live reputation on the British gig circuit, they also received an excellent response from several early demo releases, leading to further exposure and further massively well-received shows. The HUNTED momentum continued to build when the long awaited release in early 2009 of demo EP 'Alone' attracted excellent reviews from the likes of Metal-Rules.com ( ‘in a few years…I would suggest you are listening to the next Dream Theater’) and led to hugely successful support slots with bands such as much-vaunted prog metallers Son of Science and rising thrash stars Warpath. This brought them to the eager attention of many new fans and culminated in them taking to the Unsigned stage at the legendary Bloodstock festival in the summer of 2009 for another explosive performance. Recent appearances in, amongst others, Terrorizer magazine and on the official ProgPower USA promo CD have only furthered the HUNTED cause, and the months spent in careful studio preparation for their imminent debut album release promise to deliver something truly special to the metal world.

Taking influences ranging from Dream Theater and Iron Maiden through to Opeth and Blind Guardian, HUNTED distil the essence of their inspirations into a new and powerful direction for metal music. With their heavily anticipated debut full-length scheduled for release in mid 2010, they aim to take their unique sound and blistering live shows to new heights and new audiences everywhere.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hunted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.