There is more than one artist with this name.
1. An American country singer
2. A Jazz musician

1. Hunter Easton Hayes (born September 9, 1991 in Breaux Bridge, Louisiana) is an American country music singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist. He is signed to Atlantic Records Nashville, which released his debut single, "Storm Warning", on May 16th, 2011. His first major stuido album, a self-titled release, came out on October 11, 2011. His latest work is 'Storyline'. In May 2014, Hayes notably achieved a Guinness World Record for holding the most live shows played in different cities within 24 hours, a record previously held by hip-hop star Jay-Z.

The Storm Warning Songfacts reports that Hayes began his musical career at the age of four, making appearances at both local performances and on national television. At the age of six, he appeared in the drama movie 'The Apostle' alongside character actor Robert Duvall, who gave Hunter his first guitar. Before being signed to Atlantic, Hayes released many albums independently, starting with his first, 'Through My Eyes', which was released in 2000. These albums were mainly in Cajun French. However, 2008's 'Songs About Nothing' is in the same modern country style as his 2011 album.

Hayes is perhaps best known for his song "Wanted", a piano-based ballad became one of the biggest country hits of 2012. In 2010, he additionally gained notice for having co-wrote the song "Play" for Rascal Flatts' album Nothing Like This. Hayes also appeared as the opening act of ten dates of pop country star Taylor Swift's 'Speak Now World Tour' as well as serving in the North American leg of Carrie Underwood's 'Blown Away Tour'.

Hayes' latest work is 'Storyline'. That album has been a commercial success and reached the #1 spot on the iTunes top album sales chart. As stated before, Hayes notably achieved a Guinness World Record for holding the most live shows played in different cities within 24 hours in May 2014, a record previously held by hip-hop star Jay-Z.

2. Hunter Hayes is an African-American Jazz musician from New Jersey, most known for his saxophone playing. His albums include 'It's A Wonderful Life', which was released in 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hunter+Hayes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.