Huskvarn was a Latvian thrash metal band formed in Jelgava, Latvia formed in 1989.

A band beginning is justified in year 1989, banding together with underground black metal and heavy metal bands. In that time it actively hustles i different heavy music projects on the underground stages. After communism mutinous teenager minds were loaded obvious unfairness, existing social order option and point of view freedom restriction, and absolute inability to accept social standpoint. Band brought together common attitude and desire to express it for a larger public. Latvia's first thrash metal band was created accepting motor-saw company's "Husqvarn" brand for band's name.

From 1990 till 1992 bands staff were: Kaspars Zers (bass), Jānis Levits (lead guitar), Normunds "Urbix" Stefenhagens (vocals), Edgars Ķauķis (guitar) and Māris Balcers (drums). At this time band took hold in many festivals and concerts. First songs were recorded - "Blood as Wine" and "Sacrifice", these songs achieved radio listeners recognition very quickly. After an successful participation in international metal music festival "Baltic Metal March '91" band started to work on it's first album and organization of an international festival "Metal Revolution '92".

With big success Husqvarn presented it's first album "On the Road". Songs "Dark Side" and "On the Road" gained hit status and nowadays they are recognized as classics in Latvian metal music history. Notwithstanding to continual band staff exchanges, which continued till year 1993, Husqvarn played gigs in different Latvian and foreign festivals. In cooperation with Latvian Guard Ministry band organized several four year anniversary concert series in different army parts of Latvia and made the first concert movie "4 Years Road".

In 1995 band Latvianize their name to Huskvarn and recorded second album "Bomb Brain Melodies". Huskvarn took participation in the largest festivals and concerts in Latvia, and one of the most memoriable was the gig in festival "Rock Summer '96" together with such bands as ZZ Top, Status Quo, Babylon Zoo amongst many other's.

Musiologists describe the middle of 90s as a time of big changes in thrash & death metal styles, changes in the whole rock and metal scene, which affected also Huskvarn. Bands stuff changed again and it resulted in a big crisis in creative as in personal field. In year 1996 band started to work on third album in old thrash school spirit, but this album was never completed, many problems lead to that and one of that was the sudden death of drummer Juris Siņicins in a car accident. A silence period followed.

In 1998 Huskvarn returns on stage, but the band is now three men and a new music - industrial metal. At this period band worked on their new songs such as "I'm a White Man", "Save Your Soul" and "Golden Bones". This new material was recorded and given to the publisher, but no answer was given neither from the publisher, neither from another Latvian record labels. Till year 2000 Huskvarn played in industrial metal manner several gigs and festivals, but after all it was time of confusion and finding their own place in music.

Only in 2004 Huskvarn returned to active performance and back to the music band loved most - thrash metal. The audience was fascinated and band is surprised that listeners are not only thirty years old people, knowing the band from the early times from 90s, but also teenagers. Band recorded a new single "Wind" (in Latvian language). Huskvarn take part in several gigs, one of those is sharing the stage with the mighty Cannibal Corpse in Rīga. A new material in old thrash metal style is written and band starts recording and in June 2006 Huskvarn realizes EP "Sadistika" ("Sadistic").

The band split up in late 2013.

In 2015, in celebration of their 25th anniversary, the band organized a farewell concert tour - aptly called End of the Road - in Cesis, Liepaja and Riga, featuring the band's last-known lineup as well as various ex-members.

Members:

Normunds Štefenhāgens - vocals;
Edvīns Rakickis - guitars;
Armands Zalcmanis - guitars;
Mikus Visendorfs - bass;
Ģirts Jansons - drums.

http://www.huskvarn.lv <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Huskvarn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.