Hybernoid were an Industrial Metal band formed in 1991 in Lancashire (UK), comprising of Dunk Goodenough (vocals), Paula Smith (vocals), Dave Evans (guitar), Andy Bennett (guitar), Andy J. Bennett (bass) and Paul Stansfield (drums).

Hybernoid's sound was a unique combination of influences, fusing Doom/Death, Industrial and Crust Punk, with hints of Goth and Indie, though towards the end of their existence they moved into more Electro/Industrial realms. The band drew influence from punk and indie with early Amebix (No Sanctuary era), The Chameleons, through to Carcass and Bolt Thrower.

They released two demos ("Ophthaphobia" and "Well Of Grief" - both 1992), 
Well of Grief was accompanied by a video, shot in rural Lancashire and West Yorkshire.
This video secured much label interest and was followed by three 7" singles 

"Dust In The Wind" 7" single - 1993 (Displeased Records, Holland) , 
"Technology/Regression"  7" single - 1993 (PS Records USA), 
"World Of Ruin"  7" single - 1994 (Displeased Records, Holland), 

Their highly acclaimed debut album "The Last Day Begins?" was released in 1994. (This was released by Displeased Records, of Holland, Sick Records of Poland (cassette), and Massacre Records of Germany). 

A compilation CD entitled "Todays Tomorrows Yesterday" (Displeased Records) appeared in 1995, featuring new tracks, remixes and two of the singles. 

The final album "Advanced Technology" (released by Visage Records of Germany) was released in 1998, and marked a departure from the earlier Metal sound to a more Techno/Industrial one. Featuring Andy Slater on keyboard and programming, it embarked on retaining the Hybernoid sound, but pushed it towards more of a Prodigy vein.

The band split in 1999. Andy and Dave are now prolific characters on the UK drag race scene. See Doomsday Impala on youtube.

THE ONE AND ONLY OFFICIAL HYBERNOID PAGE IS AT 
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Hybernoid/184007978290458

Ignore the others, they are not controlled by Hybernoid ex members. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hybernoid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.