At least six musical acts are known to go by the name Hybrid. In order of popularity:

1) Mike Truman and Chris Healings have been writing, producing, touring and DJing all over the globe for the best part of a decade, amassing near 250 productions. The duo has written four LPs to date: Wide Angle, 1999; Morning Sci-Fi, 2003; I Choose Noise, 2006; and Disappear Here, 2010 – all on Distinctive.

Since first bursting onto the scene with the now classic album, Wide Angle, in 1999, the Swansea, Wales-based Hybrid have been known as one of the most forward thinking and technically skilled acts in electronic dance music. Blurring the line between in-studio production and live presentation, Hybrid are one of the few remaining dance acts to perform live with a classic band setup.

Though, much has changed on the road to Hybrid's fourth artist album Disappear Here. Most notable is the addition of Hybrid's third member – singer / songwriter Charlotte James – to go along with founders Chris Healings and Mike Truman.



With Disappear Here, Hybrid have managed to create an epic and unique sound which has progressed dramatically from its original dance inception but still retains much of what makes electronic music so exciting. The album features guest vocals from Tim Hutton, drums from Alex Madge and the City of Prague Philharmonic Orchestra.

https://www.hybridband.com
http://www.distinctiverecords.com

2) Technical Death/Grind band from Madrid, Spain featuring J.Oliver of Wormed and Unsane Crisis and Miguel of Human Mincer. See also H Y B R I D.

MySpace

3) Power/Trash metal band from Greece.
               Line-up: Tassos K. - Vocals
                               John B. - Guitar
                               Theodore Ziras - Guitar
                                Steve - Bassguitar
                                Antony - Drums  

4) Indie garage Punk band from Fankfurt with an amazing stage show, existing since 2001. Their music is influenced by Indie Rock and Classical Rock.

5) The core of Hybrid have now been together and making music for almost ten years now. Drummer Richard Brooke, guitarist Martin Hayter and keyboard player / vocalist Dave Boland first met together and started playing their own, unique brand of rock in the very early nineties. Along with bassist Paul Brown, they wrote and sporadically gigged for almost three years which resulted in them recording a set of demos known as the 'Lost in Relativity' tapes.
 
Personnel:

Dave Boland - Keys / Vocals
Martin Hayter - Guitars
Richard Brooke - Drums
Oliver Wakeman - Additional Keyboards
John Mitchell - Bass / Vocals

http://www.hybrid.force9.co.uk

6) Hybrid was also a hungarian extreme modern metal band between 2001 and 2008 formed from the ashes of local rapcore legends Mindcrime. They released a demo, a single and shared festival stages (at Hegyalja for example) with such bands like Tankcsapda and Cadaveres de Tortugas. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hybrid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.