There are multiple artists or groups who have recorded using this name, including (in roughly chronological order):

1. A Canadian disco group (1979) whose members include Bill Hill, Don Graham, Fitz Walton, Joe La Greca, John Farley, Peter Dowse, Terry Martel.

2. Robbie Bronnimann, of dba/65 dBA, created “Hydro” as a side project in the 1990s, with his wife Shaz Sparks, Ray Goudie, and Andy Hunter among the contributors. The albums "Spiritualisation" (1995) and "Aborigination" (1997) are now out of print.

3. Ben Settle's releases include "Tech Steppin" and "The Zone". (1996)

4. Frank Lotz and Wollny recorded "Come With Me" under this name. (1996-1997)

5. Kelly Scollard and Mike James recorded "Utopia" under this name. (1999-2001)

6. An Indonesian death metal band (2006-2009), based in Bandung, formed by death metal veteran Lukman as their frontman guitarist and music producer. One of their singles is "sabbatical repugnant"; five other tracks were planned for release as an EP before their disbanding. They have charted at www.extrememetal.us, an extreme metal webzine based in Pennsylvania, USA. 

HYDRO members :
LUKMAN  – Lead guitar, music producer
ANDRIGILA - Lead vocal
DICKY GONJALEZ  - Bassist
HENDRAWAN SAPUTRA – Drum & Percussion
SAPUTRA EKONADI – Rythm

Founding members :
ARI BEZO CORPSE - Drum
DENNY QUICK - Drum
FEBBY JIHAD - Drum

contact : hydroblasting@yahoo.com

7. A rapper from Detroit, Michigan, signed with NVME Entertainment.  In 2008 Hydro released his debut album "My Side Of The Story" which featured the hit single "Hit The Mall Ca$hout".

As the youngest of six children, he has always managed to be the center of attention. His first love, basketball, was Hydro's way to exhibit his start power. While in high school, Hydro displayed natural athletic ability and discovered his lyrical creativeness.. It was not until college that Hydro decided to diligently pursue his rap career. 

School and basketball became his secondary plans and at that point and Hydro fully emerged. Although Hydro continuously radiates cheerfulness, he is not a stranger to struggle. Starting with a life threatening car accident in which he was ran over and dragged for almost a block, to the death of a life-long best friend, he has always managed to turn tragedy into triumph. As a result of this life-threatening experience he learned to appreciate life even more.

8. David Pearson, a DJ in the UK (2004-) with many guest appearances and residencies across the UK including: the legendary Heaven, Herbal & Chunnel Club in London, Mint Club & Rehab in Leeds, various venues in Bristol & across the south coast. Internationally he's played in Amsterdam, Berlin, Budapest, Channel Islands, Tokyo, Fukuoka, Beijing and also held regular residencies in Barcelona - Spain, and in Seoul, Korea. Over the years he's worked alongside most major players in the drum & bass scene including such legendary names as Goldie, Andy C, Mampi Swift, Klute, Grooverider, Randall, Hype, Roni Size, Marcus Intalex, Kemistry & Storm and many more including major artists like DJ Krush & DJ Shadow. Hydro is also a respected producer & together with Break has several releases on Fierce's Quarantine label, DNAudio, Fuze and Levitated Recordings.

9. An alias for Hydroponic Sound System.

10. An Italian power metal band (2007 - Present) with mostly new members on the power metal scene. Their debut album “Bright Phoenix” was released in 2012.

11. Hydro Perez (HYDRO), a producer (2012 - present) whose beats have been used by Florida rapper XXXTENTACION. They post tracks on https://soundcloud.com/hydroxxx. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hydro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.