There are 5 bands with the name Hyperborea.

1. HYPERBOREA are a Bulgarian death metal band founded in 1997 in Sofia.

Being around for 22 years, HYPERBOREA have established their name as one of the most solid and recognizable Bulgarian death metal bands. Since the beginning of their career, they have tilted more towards concert activity. Their considerable live experience has honed the necessary ability to play as a one entity in a live situation – with precision timing, crushing power, bite and heaviness that are the milestone of any death metal act worth its name. HYPERBOREA have opened for names like Obituary, Arch Enemy, Vader, Pungent Stench, Asphyx, Cancer, Angel Witch, Crematory, and others. Their music is simultaneously aggressive and melodic, polyrhythmic, and at the same time not unnecessarily complicated. HYPERBOREA is an artist of the Spanish label Art Gates Records.

HYPERBOREA have three studio albums so far – Architecture Of Mind (2004), Cryogenic Somnia (2007), and Umbra (2019).

Line-up:
Dancho Ivanov - vocalsYordan Kanchev - guitarsAndrey Andronov - guitarsVladimir Ivanov - bassAntonis Trochopoulos - drums

Links:
FacebookYouTubeSpotifyInstagramMetal Archives


2. Finnish folk music group that has released two albums, Perinnearkku (2004) and Semmosta (2006). 

The four members are Piia Kleemola (fiddle, viola, kantele, vocals), Antti Paalanen (single- and double-row accordions), Petri Prauda (cittern, mandolin, bagpipes, vocals) and Paula Susitaival (fiddle, keyed fiddle/nyckelharpa, vocals).

http://www.perinnearkku.net/hyperborea/english/index.html

3. A Dutch couple (Willem and Madeleine), working together since 1993 in art and music. Hyperborea (New Found Land) is their professional artist alias. 

They work together on various projects in which they combine sculptures, 3D artworks and electronic music into multimedia projects that are available on DVD.

http://www.hyperborea.nl

4. A Russian Martial Industrial/Ritual Noise/Dark Ambient Project. 

Releases:
2008 - Gibur

Label: 
Lion Music/Irond

5. A Spanish Falangista right-wing identity folk band which has made an album 
"La Isla de la Memoria" dedicated  to Mota and Marin the two Romanian
 Legionaries who gave their lives fighting for the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil war.
Label: Rupe Tarpea Produzioni
URL: http://www.libreopinion.com/members/ch1492/letrasHyperborea.html

6. Synth exploration project of James Tom (Krakatau) based in Melbourne, Australia.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hyperborea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.