Hypnotheticall band is born in the winter of 1999 when some musicians and friends, always led through the years by guitarist Giuseppe Zaupa, decide to put together their numerous and heterogeneous musical ideas giving life to a varied type of music, very technical but emotional at the same time.

The first result of Hypnotheticall's efforts is "In Need Of A God?", the first 3-track demo-CD of the band, recorded in the February 2002. In the meantime, Hypnotheticall start to perform them on stage. The great critics of the public push the band and in April 2003 the band records 6 new songs giving birth to "Thorns", Hypnotheticall's second self-produced mini-CD.

After a period of two years far from the scene, marked by many changes in Hypnotheticall's musical direction and line-up, the band decides to start his official activity once again, replying on a renewed line-up, including Mirko Marchesini on rhythm and lead guitar, and on a new music proposal which takes inspiration from bands such as Tool, Meshuggah, King Crimson, A Perfect Circle, Porcupine Tree, Rush, Sieges Even and Pain Of Salvation. With this news, very good assumptions, the band produces and records his master CD "Promo 2006".

At the beginning of 2008 the band starts experimenting a brand new sound with a new line-up which includes the bass player Luca Capalbo (ex Gory Blister) and the 2nd drummer Francesco Tresca (now also drummer of Italian heavy metal band Arthemis). The band decides to record the songs written and played live during this period to take place in the first, official full-length album "Dead World", published by polish prog metal label Insanity Records at the end of October 2009.

After the success of this discographic deal, two members of the band (the band's first drummer Paolo Veronese & the singer Francesco Dal Barco) decide to leave the band with the aim to experiment other kinds of music.

Today the band has found equilibrium and complicity with the young, butnonetheless remarkable, singer Marco Ciscato and with a new music instrument, keyboard, played by Davide Pretto.

With all this novelties, the engendered creativity takes place in the second official full-length album, recorded in Italy and mastered in London during the summer 2012, called "A Farewell To Gravity". The album has been published on February 12th 2013 by Italian label logic(il)logic, in collaboration with Andromeda Distribution and Atomic Stuff Promotion.

Line-Up

MARCO CISCATO Vocals
MIRKO MARCHESINI Rhythm & Lead Guitars
GIUSEPPE ZAUPA Rhythm & Lead Guitars
LUCA CAPALBO Bass Guitar
DAVIDE PRETTO Keyboards & Synthesizers
FRANCESCO TRESCA Drums & Percussions <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hypnotheticall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.