Hypocras is a musical project that officially started in the beginning of 2006. Created by the actual flutist (Arnaud Aebi) and the drummer (Samuel Jakubec), the formation was, at the beginning, only instrumental composed with a flute, a drum, an electric guitar and a bass. In 2006 Hypocras recorded a full instrumental project mostly inspirated by traditionnal celtic music. For this record, the flutist entirely writed four tracks and arranged six other ones.

In 2007-2008, the band marked a nine months break because of the flutist who spent an academic year in the USA. He nevertheless writed new tracks adapted to welcome a metal singer!

After this break, the band quickly re-formed in fall 2008 welcoming a new guitarist (Nicolas Sauthier), a new bassist (Benjamin Alfandari) and a singer (Alexandre Sotirov). the line up has stayed unchanged. During the next six months, the band worked on the new tracks, recorded a three songs demo self-made and created a myspace page. It is in may 2009 that Hypocras performed it’s very first show!

We’ve done some more concerts and in the fall 2009, we decided to record a second demo also in our repetition local. The quality of this record was too mediocre for us and so we realised that if we wanted a listenable demo, it had to be done by professionnals. In summer 2010 we’ve contacted a real studio to record a real E.P intituled “Burning Drakkar“. We’ve worked with Drop from Sybreed and Nico (former guitarist of “The Fetch“). It was a very rich and instructive experience for all of us! They did a great work with our sound, mastering it, and gave us the quality demo we were looking for.

Since then, we played more than 40 concerts and are still actively searching for new places to go and perform. We already made two opening for Eluveitie, one time in the Docks of Lausanne and one more in the Palladium of Geneva. We also played in MetalCamp 2012. Actually, we work on new compositions to record an album in winter 2012/2013 and play concerts.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Hypocras">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.