hyukoh (Korean: 혁오) are a South Korean indie band from the Hongdae area of Seoul, South Korea. The band released their debut extended play "20" on September 18, 2014. The band consists of Oh Hyuk (lead vocals, rhythm guitar), Im Dong-gun (bass guitar), Im Hyun-je (lead guitar) and Lee In-woo (drums).

Band frontman and principal songwriter Oh Hyuk was born in South Korea, moving to China with his family at only 5 months of age and spending most of his teens in Beijing. He returned to South Korea in 2012 to study Fine Arts at Hongik University, but has since taken a leave of absence to focus on the band's promotions . The majority of songs from Hyukoh's first EP 20 were completed by Oh alone while he was living in Beijing, and was recorded with session members while Hyuk performed in different Seoul venues as a solo artist under the name "Hyukoh". Wishing to perform with a band he sought up the other three members and officially formed the band Hyukoh in May 2014, holding their first performance in June 2014. In time they experienced large success in the underground music scene, often selling out small-scale venues and signing on with the small but well known management company DRDR AMC.

In summer of 2015, the band became widely known in South Korea after participating in the 2015 Infinite Challenge Summer Music Festival on the popular Korean variety program Infinite Challenge. The band received positive responses from critics and the public, even breaking the top ten of the Billboard World Albums Chart two months after the release of their second mini-album "22". Their sudden success is often credited to their appearance on the show, the band's musical talent, or a combination of the two."

On July 21, 2015, renowned Korean rapper and record producer Tablo revealed Hyukoh as the first act to sign with his independent label HIGHGRND (pronounced as High Ground). HIGHGRND is financially backed by Tablo's current management company, Korean music conglomerate YG Entertainment, but its operations are autonomous from its subsidizer. Hyukoh remains under DRDR AMC management. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/hyukoh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.