I Am I (stylized I ΛM I) are an English heavy metal band led by former DragonForce vocalist ZP Theart. The band released their debut album Event Horizon in 2012, followed by two singles, one of which is a cover of John Farnham's "You're the Voice" and the other an original song titled "See You Again". Their sophomore album was expected to be released in November or December 2015, but as of October 2019 has not been released. Reasons for the as of yet 4 year delay to the release of their newest album are currently unknown however since ZP has been prioritising Skid Row it is presumed that this is the reason. Their website also currently displays a message that reads "IAMI new site coming soon".

‘Event Horizon’      
 
Sometimes when an irresistible force meets an immovable object, great things happen & this is one of those occasions.  Welcome to I AM I.

MetalTalk.net: "..contained within this album is a myriad of moments of pure genius...ZP and the guys have delivered an album which is dripping with passion, talent and heart"   
 
The formidable driving force behind the band is the renown vocalist ZP Theart. After his departure from Dragonforce in 2010 he worked tirelessly to put together a new project and after searching out an incredibly talented group of musicians, the lineup was completed and the end result was one of the most exciting new bands of 2012, I AM I.
 
The band's debut album 'Event Horizon' was written and produced by Theart and guitarist Jacob Ziemba and mixed and mastered by Roland Grapow (Helloween/Masterplan) and is a storming blend of melodies and rock, riffs and metal all interlaced with ZP's soaring vocals. Their debut video of the track 'Silent Genocide' taken from the album is the perfect example of all these and it's already proving to be a massive hit worldwide, gaining huge numbers of views in a very short space of time.
 
Through its collection of tracks of differing mood and tempos, Event Horizon is proving to have an incredibly broad appeal from fans of AOR right through to those into the heavier side of rock and metal, the music stepping through and beyond the boundaries of merely heavy rock. With a large number of eclectic influences within the band, this is the way I AM I intend to continue on as they have no desire to stay purely within one section of rock, they will continue to bring their unique songs infused with all these styles to the fore. 

There's no doubt about it, heart, soul and absolutely no limits, I AM I are here to take the world by storm!

Current members
ZP Theart – vocals (2012–present)
Rich Smith – drums (2013–present)
Andrew Kopczyk – guitars (2014–present)
Gavin Owen – guitars (2014–present)
Dean Markham – bass (2014–present) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/I+AM+I">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.