In March, 2009, a Cincinnati-based group of musicians set out with a goal in mind. This sextet, known as I Am The Messenger, wanted to create hardcore music but also wanted to push that style’s limitations. Along the way, they have sought to develop a live show that combines the band’s natural energy with crowd participation to make I Am The Messenger’s performance unlike any other. Last – but not least – the members of the band wanted to utilize a positive message in their lyrics to encourage the audience to become the change they want to see in the world.

The members of I Am The Messenger have varied musical backgrounds and influences. As as result, their sound shows a great deal of diversity and range. The listener will experience moments of driving, hardcore rhythms flavored with highly technical and intricately pieced-together instrumentals reflecting some of their metal roots. Their aggressive style is tempered by soaring vocal harmonies and upbeat keyboard melodies that demonstrate I Am The Messenger’s pop sensibility.

Since forming, I Am The Messenger has been hard at work promoting their music. They perform live shows regularly; they have performed on the indie stage at Ichthus and on the Encore 2 stage at the Cornerstone Music Festival, along with countless acts such as Miss May I, Gwen Stacy, Let's Get It, A Plea For Purging, Thursday, Dillinger Escape Plan, Four Letter Lie, I Am Ghost, Haste The Day, The Bled, and countless others. The release show for I Am The Messenger’s five-song debut EP “Robots” brought well over 1,000 people to Madison Theater in Covington, Kentucky. “Robots” is currently available on iTunes and Amazon Music. I Am The Messenger is currently working towards recording their first full-length album and further building their fan base in the Greater Cincinnati area.

Jamie-Guitar/Vocals
Blake-Vocals
JP-Bass/Vocals
Zach-Guitar
Mark-Drums
Phil-Synth/Keys

myspace.com/iamthemessengeronline


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/I+Am+The+Messenger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.