Bring your hardhats! Hailing from the hardworking, blue collar town of Clio, a few miles north of notorious, infamous Flint, Michigan, I DECAY is the personification of in your face, teeth-gritting, fist-pumping metal that will whip your ass, sell you a record, get you drunk, and screw your mom all at the same time. 

…and if you’re still not feeling raped and pillaged enough, arrive home after an I DECAY show and expect to see the boys quickly stripping your home of copper piping, aluminum siding and anything scrapable to fund their drive to the next victim-laden city on the tour. 

Hand-picked and requested by national touring managers, I DECAY has Completed a Full U.S. Tour with MUSHROOMHEAD, and Psyclon Nine in the fall of 2007. I DECAY has also shared the stage with and has attracted the respect and attention of some of the industries top metal acts such as Killswitch Engage, Chimaira, Disturbed,The Black Dahlia Murder, Lacuna Coil, All That Remains, Hatebreed, Soulfly, Trivium, God Forbid, Bury Your Dead, Suicide Silence, 36 Crazy Fists, Walls of Jericho, After The Burial, Darkest Hour, Arsis, Winds of Plague, Signs of Collapse, Kittie, Otep, Dope, Soil, Beneath The Massacre, As Blood Runs Black, Byzantine, Scar Symetry, Katyklysm, The Autumn Offering, Agnostic Front, Diecast, Red I Flight and countless others. 

Fronted by Kyle ‘Gumby’ Gunther, whose alternating death metal growls and high pitched shrieks, spreads an infectious energy to live crowds with his command of the stage and karate-kicking windmills that leave widespread whiplash to all who brave an I DECAY show. Add some badass dueling riffs courtesy of guitarists Bret Williams and Mike Anderson, pour on some thick bass thump from Nick Thodoroff and top it off with the hardcore-styled skinbeatings by Paul Bissonnette, Jr., and you’ll have the teeth-shattering, finger-breaking assault that is known as I DECAY. 

With Gumby, Mike, Paul, Bret and Nick and their Metal City crew hustlin’ the sale of over 2,000 copies of their LAST GOODBYE CD at over 100 shows in 2007 and 2008, sell-outs at their famous home venue of The Machine Shop in Flint, MI and completing full U.S. tours with Mushroomhead, I DECAY is “tour & label ready” to take this insanity and brutality to the masses, inciting disorder as only Gumby and the guys know how. 

I DECAY is that forward, raw, intense, make the hair on the back of your neck-stand-straight-up metal that can be enjoyed by the most brutal of death metal, metal core, thrash and party metal enthusiasts from all over the world!. 

Buy this record if you like:
Unearth
The Black Dahlia Murder
At The Gates 
All Shall Perish 
The powerhouse that is I DECAY is ready to blow through the venue near you! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/i+decay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.