I Decline rip out the pages from the book of rock legends that include Black Sabbath and Thin Lizzy to glue them back in a trusty tattered notebook with the punk philosophies of Black Flag and the Misfits. This eclectic mixture of influences creates I Decline’s own unique hybrid of hard rock, metal, and punk hardcore genres. “I Decline are Chicago super rockers who just might be the first band to successfully channel the glorious, delirious warmth of Thin Lizzy’s dual guitar attack and gentleman rogue charm and drop it, friendly fire style, right into the sprawling desert of acid freak dope metal,” recites Sleazegrinder.com.

Utilizing the recording skills of member John Doyle, I Decline anticipate their third full length release by summer 2009 while gearing up for exclusive Chicago dates and regional mini-tours. After the bands five year hiatus that found Doyle working as lead engineer alongside famed producer Johnny K, I Decline reignited their passion to perform with a series of intermittent performances in the summer of 2008. Overwhelmed by the response of their local fan base, rehearsals gave way to their most creative and complex catalog of new material to date.

I Decline’s first full length compact disc Soundtrack for the Rest of Your Life was self recorded and released in 2000 on the bands own Black Rabbit Records. Several tracks would appear in the surfer film and soundtrack for “The 5th Symphony Document,” winning the prestigious Surfer Magazine Movie of the Year award in 2001. “It took me no more than two guitar chords for me to fall in love with the guitar sound of I Decline, says Chicago Gigs.com. “Gritty, dirty, fuzzy, beautifully thick power chords are the backbone of this band and heavy is not an adequate word to describe the weight unleashed on this album.”

I Decline set out to capture the sound of their explosive live show with their second Black Rabbit Records release The Ides of Riffdom in 2003. Simulating a live performance atmosphere throughout recording sessions with a tried and true set list, the group tracked in an all analog studio using 2" reel to reel tape. “The depth of this album and overall production goes above and beyond the call of duty” explains Stoner Rock.com. “Banging your head in sync right out of the gate, its psychedelic space drenched fuzzed out blues guitar rock done right with vocals Paul Stanley would be proud of and showing that its not just typical stoner rock for the masses.” I Decline contributed the track “Give ‘em a Hand” to the Firetone Records Indie Rock Unites Volume 1, a compilation that included Poster Children and the Figgs supporting the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation.

I Decline have shared the stage with an endless array of talented artists including the Frogs and Nick Olivieri (Queens of the Stone Age). In 2003, the band met Corrosion of Conformity drummer Reed Mullin during Chicago's Mobfest Music Conference and forged a bond that brought the band on a short tour to North Carolina as a supporting act for Joe Preston’s group Thrones (Melvins, High On Fire, Sunn O))), Earth). Frequenting the Chicago club scene, I Decline has appeared at House of Blues, Metro, Double Door, and throughout the Midwest. Michigan Bands.com declares “I Decline take the stage and commence a gradual and steady climb into a vortex of energy I’ve never seen before, reinforcing my hope for today’s music.”

Chicago south side natives Pat McLaughlin (bass), John Doyle (drums), and Michael Pesavento (guitar) originally assembled in 1996 writing mock-metal songs that poked fun at hardcore music. With mutual respect for bands like Kyuss, Monster Magnet, and Sleep, their earlier shows often incorporated free-form jams that coincidently led to the addition of vocalist Dustin Harnish. With McLaughlin nearly knocked unconscious by the jolt of electricity from a microphone, Harnish came to his aid by joining their performance and ultimately the band. Fueled with the ferocity of auxiliary lead guitarists Dan Dominiak and Tommy Bucina, the group’s circle was finally complete. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/I+Decline">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.