I Exist are an Australian sludge metal/stoner metal/doom metal band from Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. The band's current line-up consists of vocalist Jake "Wallaby" Willoughby, drummer Simon Murphy (also of Life and Limb), bassist/vocalist Alex Young and guitarists Aaron Osbourne (formerly of Outright), Josh Nixon (formerly of Pod People) and Sam Provost (also of Vera). They are renown for their eccentric and energetic live shows, as well as extensive touring both nationally and internationally with bands such as Fucked Up, Kylesa, Twitching Tongues, Eyehategod, Break Even, Every Time I Die and Harm's Way.

The band formed in 2009; originally featuring Willoughby on vocals, Osbourne on lead guitar, Provost on bass and Murphy on drums. The band released a demo entitled "Three Nails and a Book of Flaws" that same year. The original run sold out; before being re-released as a 7-inch via Midnight Funeral. 

Nixon joined the band shortly afterward; as did Young (moving Provost to guitar) and Phantoms guitarist Adrian Kelly. This brought I Exist's line-up to a septet with four guitarists; making for a uniquely thick, heavy sound and a strong live presence. This line-up recorded and released their debut LP, I: A Turn For the Worse, in 2010; which was released via Resist (a label the band have stayed with to this day). In early 2011, the band released a split 7-inch with Kelly's other band, Phantoms, entitled Bad Romance. Both of the new I Exist tracks on the release - "Mammoth Falls" and "Terror Canyon" - were named after rides at the aquatic Gold Coast theme park, Wet N Wild.

In mid-2011, the band released their second studio album, II: The Broken Passage. Kelly parted ways with the band in 2012, playing his final shows with the band across the Hardcore 2012 shows in Sydney and the Poison City Weekender in Melbourne. The band reverted to their current line-up of three guitars; although Murphy occasionally adds fourth guitar parts in the studio. In 2013, the band released their third album, From Darkness. It was released internationally in early 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/I+Exist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.