Iamsu!, born Sudan Ameer Williams, has been making music for over a decade. He began playing the drums as a child and later branched out to writing, producing, and finally rapping. Always inspired to be himself, he has avoided being the stereotypical artist. Su! has used his personal experiences to shape his music and his life. .... Iamsu! spent his early years in Richmond and Pinole, California, as well as Grambling, Louisiana. In Grambling, he enjoyed and was inspired by Grambling University’s nationally acclaimed band. In addition, Su! has traveled to Jamaica often to visit his God mother where he enjoyed reggae music. Also, his visits to Africa and Europe shaped and inspired his unique sound. .... In High School, Su! began producing and rapping seriously and formed a group called “The Go-Gettaz” which enjoyed local successes and performances across the Bay Area. Achieving over 1 million Myspace plays, “The Go-Gettaz” were the number one unsigned group in the country respectively. .... In addition, Su! and “The Go-Gettaz” group member P-Lo formed the production team “The Invasion” shortly after graduating high school. They went on to produce singles for a host of local artists including Young Bari, and the Diligentz. Gaining attention as a producer, Su! continues to collaborate with popular Bay Area artists, such as, Bobby Brackins, Kaz Kyzah (of the Team), G5 The Jett, and Erk Tha Jerk. .... Finally, Su! has ventured out as a solo artist crafting songs that are genuine and fun. Making music that is enjoyed by a diverse and large group of listeners, Su! continues to prove himself as a standout lyricist, artist, and producer. With his latest mix tape “Su! The Right Thing” being download over 20,000 times in a one week span, it is clear to see that Su!’s stock is rising in the music world. Constantly leaking songs via his blog(hbk3000.blogspot.com) and his twitter page (@iamsu), Su! keeps giving his listeners what they want… leaving people asking themselves “Who is Su!?” .... Check out IAMSU! @ HOTNEWHIPHOP.COM/IAMSU AND TWITTER.COM/IAMSU ............  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iamsu%21">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.