006 BIOGRAPHY – Singer/songwriter/producer IAN PARRY


With releases in over 35 countries wolrwide and a career covering 2 decades, IAN PARRY has gained the necessary experience, making him a dynamic well respected vocalist and a creative lyricist/songwriter/arranger/producer. 
Ian's debut began in 1985, in the hardrock band Hammerhead, signing exclusively to EMI Records,
also featured David Rosenthal (Rainbow) & drummer Joe Franco (Twisted Sister & Widowmaker). Hammerhead recorded "Heart made of Steel", which after 15 years locked away in the EMI Electrola archieves, was finally release in 2000 by Pseudonym records and Marquee Japan.
Having worked in various British bands as Mono Pacific with Zak Starkey (drummer with Oasis & son of the Beatles drummer Ringo Starr) and Airrace (formerly with Jason Bonham, son of Led Zeppelin drummer Jon Bonham), Ian's break came with the hardrock band Vengeance, touring throughout Europe for more than 2 years with a farewell compilation c.d. on Sony Records, "The Last Teardrop". Later followed by "The last of the Fallen Heroes" released in 1994 by Alfa Records, Japan, then in 2000 "Wings of an Arrow" via Transmission records Holland.
This album covers more comprehensively the songs Ian co-wrote with guitarist Arjen Lucassen.
1993 Ian's started his own label Non-Stop Productions releasing his debut solo cd "Symphony of Dreams". An A.O.R./Rock album, it was released in over 15 countries with songs performed and recorded live in England for MTV Headbangers' Ball.
"Artistic Licence" was Ian's 2nd solo album release contains powerful performances from; René Merkelbach (Gorefest) on keyboards, & drummer Ernst van Ee (Lana Lane / Highway Chile).
Subsequently both solo albums were released in Japan by Zero Corporation who invited to Tokyo Japan for a radio/press promotion tour. This coincided with the release of "Evolution II" from guitarist Misha Calvin with songs co-written and performed by Ian on Misha's 1st c.d. "Evolution" (together with Black Sabbath vocalist Tony Martin), playing many live shows in Europe, including The Marquee Club London, September '95.
Shortly after Ian released his 3rd solo cd "Thru' the Looking-Glass". Incorporating unique vocals and classic Metal/hardrock songs, it features a guest performance from Vengeance/Ayreon guitarist Arjen Lucassen. Released in both Europe and Japan, a video clip shot around the old docklands area of Rotterdam, had its premier on the Wet & Wild show, from T.M.F. Holland, and was broadcast on MTV France. Later in 2000 a compilation c.d. called "Shadowman", had a worldwide release by Noise records Germany.

February '96, Ian joined the Dutch Symphonic Metal Band Elegy with worldwide sales in excess of 250,000 copies sold, Ian has spent the past 10 years recording and touring with Elegy starting with their acoustic mini-c.d. "Primal Instinct". (selling over 10,000 copies via JVC Japan and Modern Music/T&T Europe, it was followed by "State of mind", including their debut in USA & Canada, 
With rave reviews the world over, it sold more than 45,000 copies, resulting in a successful 30 date Tour of Europe, performing to more than 30,000 people. Elegy filmed their debut Video clip " Visual Vortex ", broadcast by a.o. Viva T.V. Germany, T.M.F. Holland, M-Sat Hungary and the infamous Captain Wada TV show in Japan, followed by a Japanese tour in Osaka and Tokyo where Ian was nominated in the Burrn magazine readers poll for best singers of 1997.
As a result of Ian's success in Japan, Marquee Inc, released an 18 track compilation c.d. from Ian's previous band Perfect Strangers. The songs were recorded during the band's brief time together between '88 & '89, and features ex-Vandenberg drummer Jos Zoomer, Vengeance bassist Barend Courbois, and Hammerhead guitarist Wilko van Beek.
In 1998 Elegy recorded their 6th album " Manifestation of fear " at Area 51 studio's, which was produced by Tommy Newton. The lyrical concept was written by Ian. The worldwide release was in August '98, followed by a co- Head Liner tour of Europe with American metal act Kamelot.

Summer '99 Ian recorded an Iron Maiden tribute for Meteorcity records New Mexico USA, together with US Metal giants Kamelot for the Iron Maiden tribute c.d. "Slave to the Power". Featuring Sebastian Bach (Skid Row), Chris Gaffery (Savatage) the release for this fantastic Iron Maiden tribute c.d., was December '99 and later in 2000 via JVC Victor Japan to celebrate Iron Maiden's reunion with singer Bruce Dickenson.
Earlier '99 Ian formed his Debut symfo progressive metal band project The Consortium Project, featuring guitarists Stephan Lill - Vanden plas, Tamas Szekeres, Thomas Youngblood - Kamelot, Patrick Rondat & Elegy Drummer Dirk Bruinenberg. Entitled " Ian Parry's Consortium Project " it was released first in Japan by Nippon Crown, France via N.T.S. & throughout Europe & the USA via InsideOut Music. Followed by South America via Progressive/Megahard records November '99.
The Consortium Project band performed a number of Sell out shows at Cafe de la Dans in Paris, and Lyon, France and in Germany, Holland & Belguim in '99 with Patrick Rondat & Stephan Lill - Guitars, Dirk Bruinenberg - Drums, Gunter Werner - Keyboards & bassist Rhapsody bassist Patrick Guers. 
2000 saw the release of Elegy's 6th studio album "Forbidden Fruit", featuring their new guitarist
ex-Jean-Michel Jarre axeman, Patrick Rondat. Comprising of a collection of short stories, combining fantasy and fiction, "Forbidden Fruit" included specially performed live acoustic bonus tracks by Henk v/d Laars & vocals by Ian Parry recorded in '98 at the JVC studios Japan.

After worldwide reclaim for his debut Consortium Project album, Ian produced his Consortium II c.d. entitled "Continuum in Extremist" 2001 the 2nd part of his extraordinary symfo-progressive melodic power metal Concept. Ian based his fictional concept story, on present day issues creating a theoretical world run by a new singular female species called NOEFEMS. A fictional world going out of control, Ian who personally coordinated the production duties for Consortium II recorded the album in various studios throughout Europe and the USA and was mixed by ex-Victory guitarist/producer Tommy Newton (Helloween, Elegy, Kamelot, & Ark) at Area 51 studios in Germany. C II is a unique collaboration of Progressive-Power metal with an incredible concept released in Europe, South America & Japan 2001 via King Records,

2002 saw the release of Ian's first fully produced Elegy cd "Principles of Pain" released via Locomotive Music (Europe & the USA) and Marquee Inc. (Japan) and via Magnum music Korea. Recorded in Madrid in Jan/Feb' 2002, "Principles of Pain" It was supported by a video clip filmed on the Caribbean Island of Aruba, later released on DVD and after receiving rave reviews worldwide, Elegy were invited to play at the Rock Machina Spanish festival 2002, performing for more than 10,000 fans. Later in 2003 Elegy made its debut in the USA playing at the Brave Words magazine festival in Cleveland Ohio.
Principles of Pain was technical in a Progressive Power metal style, containing 2 ballads, 2 Neo-Classical up-tempo double bass drum tracks, and many mid-tempo melodic metal tracks, with catchy chorus lines".

October 2003 saw the release of Ian's 3rd part of his concept amazing concept story. "Terra Incognita" (The undiscovered World) Consortium Project III c.d. via Century Media Records. Produced and arranged by Ian, this was by far his most prestigious performance to date and for Ian a superb production. C 3 was, which he intends to adapt for a musical Rock Opera called "Terra Incognita" (The undiscovered World) was a formidable and awe inspiring story, incorporating many issues and topics such as the discovery of the Human Genome, Global Warning, the issue of human cloning and also the hysteria we've seen around Reality T.V.

Guest vocal Performances:
Includes a guest appearances on the Valensia No.2 hit "Gaia" on Phonogram records in 1993.
A guest appearance singing and co-writing with guitarist Arjen Lucassen on his very successful rock opera "Ayreon" in 1995 and again in 2000 Ian wrote lyrics and recorded vocal on
"Sleeper Awake" which was a song from the "Ayreon- Flight of the Migrator" c.d. plus additional vocal tracks on the compilation album, "Ayreon- Ayreonauts only" 2000.
In Dec' '97, Ian recorded a "Live in Budapest" album, with Hungarian Guitarist Tamas Szekeres, which was released in Japan September '98, via Marquee records.
In 2001 Ian sang lead vocals on the solo album from Andre Andersen, Royal Hunt keyboard wizard/Songwriter-producer called "Black on Black" released in June 2002. 
(3 times winners of the Burrn magazine readers poll in Japan) 
Later in 2005 Ian recorded guest harmony vocals for German Rockers Mob Rules cd "Among the gods" c.d. released in September 2004 by SPV records.

2002 Consortium Project appearance on a Led Zeppelin tribute c.d. in Florida. recording ."The Immigrant song" appearing along side special guest Mike Chlasciak (Rob Halford's guitarist) and Casey Grillo (Kamelot drummer). The tribute was released 2003 by Locomotive Music Spain & and also featured Elegy, Doro, Annilator,Elegy, Savatage and many more known artists.


2006 saw the release of Ian's first solo cd in 10 years entitled "Visions". A combination of gothic rock, melodic metal to symphonic progressive rock was released in Europe via Escape music UK. During a promo trip to Toronto Canada "Visions received much acclaim and the best reviews ever in Europe."Visions" being more modern, more commercial Rock and Symphonic Metal", included performances from Casey Grillo (kamelot), Ivar de Graaf (former Within Temptation) and Vanden Plas guitarist Stephan Lill.

Consortium Project IV c.d. 
During the promotion of Visions in early 2006, Ian was astonished by the interest from journalists for Ian to continue his rock metal concept story Quote Ian" originally I only intended make a Consortium Project Trilogy. Towards the end of 2005 I had co-written songs with my colleagues Joshua Dutriuex and Ivar de Graaf and we all agreed at the time that these powerful tracks would be ideal for a Consortium Project 4 c.d. So After having received such overwhelming positive reactions, it's the first time in my twenty odd years in the music business, that I've actually been inspired by Journalists to make another album. This time around my colleagues and I decided to make focus more on the raw edged guitar orientated metal style, rather than writing progressive 
Songs, but still keeping the symphonic keyboard elements. The approach is to use keyboards in musical passages this time around, like Hollywood does in movies and enhance the concept story by having spoken intro's with a female story teller like on C 2 and creating epic choir type atmospheres illustrating the concept story more.
C4 is set centuries in the future and describes a tale how future generations go in search of there historical past.This magnificent offering entitled "Children of Tomorrow" is a co-produced album by Ian and Elegy keyboardist Joshua Dutrieux. C IV was released in July 2007 across Europe via the German rock metal label AOR metal Heaven and has received many great reviews. In addition Ian made his debut in the USA releasing his latest solo c.d. and Consortium IV via California based Prog rock records and the response for both albums has been very positive. 
Upcoming schedules releases for the Consortium Project IV and other albums from Ian's vast catalogue are planned for Brazil via the Sao Paulo based metal label Dynamo records, due for release in November 2007. Later in december Ians get his 2nd official release in Russia via Mystic Empire records. 
Consortium Project IV video clips "Enigma" & "Nowhere Fast"
Ian made his debut video clips using 2 tracks from the C IV c.d. "Enigma" and "Nowhere Fast" and within a few months received over 16,000 hits on his Youtube site.
Consortium Project tour in 2008
After the recent worldwide success of Consortium IV Ian and co-producer Joshua Dutrieux teamed up with former Elegy drummer and ex-Pain of Salvation bassist to perform a number of select shows. The Consortium Project band line-up also included newcomer Niel Vejlyt on guitar. 
"Infinity Overture" new band from Niels Vejlyt
Ian recently worked together with Niels Vejlyt and his new band "Infinity Overture" and wrote a lyrical concept for the album called "Kingdom of Utopia". The album is being mixed by Sascha Peath (producer of Kamelot, Rhapsody etc!) and is expected to be released mid 2009.

Crystal Tears new album & debut video clip
Greek Metal band Crystal tears contacted Ian early 2008 to work on their debut album. Crystal tears saw Ian live in Thessaloniki during an Elegy show supporting Stratovarius on their European tour in 1997. Ian spent a number of months during the summer of 2008 writing lyrics and recording lead and backing vocals for the new Crystal tears album, which is being produced by Liapakis Dimitris (producer & Singer of German metal band Mystic Prophecy). In October '08 Ian joined Crystal tears in Thessaloniki on location filming the band's debut video clip "Nightmare Serenade" one of the songs taken from the forth coming album. The mixing is expected to be finished around March 2009 and as yet no release date has been confirmed, but plans are in progress for an upcoming live tour in Greece and a number of other European dates.

Joe Stump's "Reign of Terror band tour
During November & December Ian went on the road again with US guitarist Joe Stump to perform 10 shows with the "Reign of Terror" band in London, Holland, Belgium & Germany. Joe and Ian will soon start working together on songs for a new Reign of Terror album, with plans to play live shows again later in 2009.
New Elegy box set c.d. containing 7 albums due for release February 2009
Ian is proud to announce the release of an Elegy c.d. box-set containing 7 of Elegy's finest c.d. recordings including 18 bonus tracks and behind thee scenes home video live acoustic sessions performed by Ian and ex-Elegy guitarist Henk van de Laars during their 1998 TV & Radio promotional tour of Japan.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ian+Parry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.