There are (at least) ten artists with the name Icarus.

(1) Sam Britton and Ollie Bown have been making electronic music since 1997, releasing music on various independent labels and achieving recognition for their distinct sound and complex compositional technique. in recent years, the band has tended towards the more experimental end of electronic music, with a particular interest in the relationship between composers, computers and performance.

(2) Icarus is a melodic hardcore outfit from Reykjavík, Iceland. Originally formed as a three piece instrumental band, their sound shifted from post-rock to a more volatile hardcore genre. The band has put out two albums, Ephemeral (2012) and Ascending // Descending (2014). Icarus has toured the US for extended periods during the summers of 2012-13, and they will be heading back for the months of June and July in 2014. In September, Icarus will embark on its first ever European tour.

(3) An English heavy progressive rock band that released "The Marvel World of Icarus" in 1972. The members of the band presented themselves as Marvel superheroes characters.

(4) Yet another project of Manuel Reuter, together with Manuel Schleis, with one released single, "All Systems Go!!!", and another unreleased one, "Funky Crazy".

(5) A Spanish power metal group formed in 2000.

(6) A Peruvian power metal band formed in 1999.

(7) A Mexican heavy metal band that play together since 1985.

(8) There's a rapper named Icarus. He's  from Gilla House and makes tracks with Redman and Saukrates On The Ill At Will Mixtapes produced by Redman and Gilla House.

(9) A Finish heavy metal band formed in 1999.

(10) A San Jose based soft rock group consisting of Darren Korb on vocals, Robbie Fitzsimmons on keyboard and back-up vocals, Amir on drums and a rotating bassist.

(11) An alternative pop rock outfit based in London/Colchester. Comprised of Alan Rowley, Jon Gallop, Cliff Rowley and Peter Rowley. They are currently recording their debut album 'Flying too close to the sun' which will be released this summer.

(12) A underground HipHop-artist from Oberhausen, Germany.

(13) An electronic artist and filmmaker from Stockholm Sweden. 

(14) Rapper from germany <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Icarus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.