Ice Ages is an electro-industrial project from Vienna, Austria, founded in 1994 by Richard Lederer, known for darkwave band Die Verbannten Kinder Evas and black metal band Summoning.
In 1997, the first Ice Ages album, titled "Strike the Ground", was released. In contrast to the orchestral and melancholic atmosphere of Die Verbannten Kinder Evas or the fantasy world of Summoning, this project takes a more aggressive and darker turn.

The second album to be released on Napalm Records in late 2000, "This Killing Emptiness", follows the style of the debut. However, it boasts of a superior sound quality and a more mature writing style that blends ominously with the ever-present deep and distorted voice (and sometimes raw and clearer voice) of Richard Lederer.

In opposite to other releases of the electro scene, the rhythmical structure is more complicated and the tunes are more polyphonic. The aim of Ice Ages is to follow its own typical dark, melodic and sluggish way, and not to follow any modern trends.

After some serious problems with his other projects his whole musical productivity got a huge undesired rest. Anyway this time was not lost, during that time Richard started to deal very intensely with new software synthesizers (mainly with "Reaktor 5") to get more sound possibilities and a wider flexibility of sound creation for Ice Ages. Filled with all those experiences he started to create the new songs in a short time and finally after a delay of 7 years the new album "Buried Silence" is almost completed. The lyrics are again written by Grom, but this time they are especially written for the music, having not existed before and adapted to the music as on the last album.

The new songs follow the style of "This Killing Emptiness"; they are again very dark, slow, and melodic, with a heavy distorted drum-sound, but this time maybe using rougher melodic sounds in most songs and also even increasing in the complexity of the rhythms. the new album will be released end of june again under napalm records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ice+Ages">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.