Named the hottest Miami underground rapper making noise “Ice Berg” (born Teiron L. Robinson in Miami, Florida on March 2, 1989) has developed one of the strongest following in the state of Florida and looks to continue to grow his fan base with the release of his new mixtape “Damage Is Done”. “Ice berg” is doing numbers with his Team Billion Movement with over 13 million Youtube Views, major celebrity and blog features, and over 80,000 Twitter followers. “Ice Billion Berg” is the true definition of a rapper making noise in his state and throughout the Southeast Region.

From the early age of 5, “Billion Berg” was first introduced to making music with the help of his Father and current manager “Coach” who helped him write his first rap song. Since that connection at an early age to make music and write “Ice Berg” hasn’t looked back yet. At 14 years old “Ice Berg” was already producing his first independent mix tape with major buzz in the streets. In 2004 Famous Miami Rapper Trick Daddy scouted “Ice Bergs” talent and unique style and officially signed him a record deal to Dunk Ryders Records.

“Ice Billion Berg” continues to capture the streets, with his hot mixtapes, street anthems, and electric stage presence at his packed out shows. “Ice Billion Berg” continues to be recognized by his loyal fans of all ages, and recently featured on songs with Rick Ross, Trina, Gunplay, Trick Daddy, Ace Hood, and many more. Partnering with major companies, brands, sponsorships, and endorsements, “Ice Berg” Billion is a true future business mogul. Touring from city to city, doing packed out shows, radio interviews, and more Icebergs continues to widen his fan base while getting better as a Mc.

With “Ice Billion Bergs” affiliation with Trick Daddy major labels, Maybach Music Group, Cash Money, and many more are looking to sign him as the next Florida Rapper to blow. Regardless of what area in Florida you’re in, you’ll likely hear conversations regarding Ice Berg’s claim to fame and the songs of promise that he shows in each song he puts out. The streets have been talking trying figure out which major label is going to sign him next, only time will tell. So you will see or hear “Ice Berg” somewhere near you with the slogan that he made famous and everybody can quote him “IM ON MY WAY!” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ice+Billion+Berg">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.