There is more than one artist under this name:

1. Ice is an industrial band formed by Techno Animal and  God members Justin Broadrick (Godflesh) and Kevin Martin (The Bug). Their first album, Under the Skin was released in 1993, displaying a grinding industrial metal sound that drew similarities to its sister-projects of Broadrick's, most notably Godflesh and God. After the first record and its subsequent remix EP, 1995's Quarantine, the project disappeared for a few years before resurfacing in a completely different form of music and sound in 1998 with their second album, Bad Blood. This sophomore release heavily explored hip hop and dub within their dark industrial soundscape, featuring guest appearances from the likes of Blixa Bargeld (Einstürzende Neubauten), Toastie Taylor, DJ Vadim, Sebastian Laws (New Kingdom) and El-P (Company Flow). That same a year a remix EP followed, Headwreck before the project was put on permenant hiatus.

2. Ice is a British psychedelic combo that released several singles near the end of the 60s. Several members (keyboardist Lynton Naiff and drummer Grant Serpell) went on to form the jazzy progressive group Affinity.

3. Ice is an American funk-rock act that recorded two albums for the Passport label circa 1974-75 (first self-titled, second called Import/Export).

4. ICE is a Japanese band comprised of 宮内和之 (Kazuyuki Miyauchi) and 国岡真由美 (Mayumi Kunioka).

5. Ice is a British guitar-based underground rock band from Tamworth who released one rare album in 1979, Saga of the Ice King,  telling the story of a time when the earth was ruled by the Nordic Kings. The Band was derived mostly from Willow and consisted of: 
-Mick Rutherford, lead vocals. He also arranged the strings played by the Staffordshire Youth Orchestra.
-Paul Watts, electric and acoustic guitars
-Colin Richardson, bass 
-Andy Radek, electric and acoustic guitar
-Steve Sheldon, drums and percussion 

The band split up in 1982, but  Saga Of The Ice King became quite a coveted collectible.

6. Ice is a progressive rock group from Bad Kreuznach, Germany. One album, Opus 1, was released in 1980.

7. Ice is a Norwegian eurodance duo consisting of singer Maryelle and composer Thomas Ekle. The album Ice released in 2001 includes the hit singles Can't Get Over You and Stay.

8. Ice is a Dutch neo-prog band who released a CD on the Muséa label in 2005 entitled The Saga.

9. Ice is a French Paris-based afrofunk band in the 70s whose members also played in Lafayette Afro Rock Band.

10. ice is a Japanese electronic artist credited for an arrange of 20,november featured on the album Diverse Style from “B” 6thstyle.

11. Ice was a short-lived Norwegian progressive rock band which formed from the remnants of Høst in 1977/1978. The former members of Høst wanted to perform their music with English lyrics rather than Norwegian as they wanted to appeal to a more international audience. They appeared on the Norwegian National Broadcasting in 1978 before their disbandment. Four songs can be heard on the Høst compilation, Live & Unreleased which was released in 1994.

12. ICE, iceloki or Wilson Lam is a Hong Kong music composer and sound effect designer that is working at Rayark Inc which producing Cytus and Deemo game for smartphone. His notable tracks which is Entrance, Precipitation and L are popular among rhythm gaming players. He also a part of member Prismatic Sounds label including DJ Mashiro and 3R2

13. UK Goth band that was active around 1990.

14. Post-punk French band active in the early 80s.

15. Chinese rapper and member of the hip hop group PANTHEPACK <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ICE">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.