There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Icepick is an American metalcore band formed in 1996. It serves as a side project to Jamey Jasta of Hatebreed, Danny Diablo, and other musicians of the extreme metal, hardcore punk and hip hop scenes.

Although founded in 1996, Icepick remained virtually stagnant until the song "Born To Crush You" appeared on UFC: Ultimate Beat Downs, Vol. 1 in August 2004. Former UFC heavyweight champion Andrei Arlovski frequently uses their song Onward to Victory as his entrance music for fights.

Icepick's debut album, Violent Epiphany, was released on April 18, 2006 under Jasta's record label, Stillborn. It features guest vocals by numerous musicians including Ice T and, according to the band's MySpace page, has sold over 20,000 copies by word of mouth alone.



2) In the late winter of 1999 the band Icepick rose up when several other bands and projects were laid low. Inspired by the work of the great old New York bands Bad Brains and Cro-Mags, the band started writing material and got their sound together with lyricism reflecting the heart and soul of the frontman. After numerous live performances the band got noticed by Discontent Records who sent them into the studio to record their demo in the summer of 2003. Reactions to this have been nothing but positive and about 500 copies were sold. Changes in the line-up made the band grow and the bands’ guitar assault stronger than ever. Their 'Goldrush' CD on Not Just Words records hit the streets in the spring of 2005 and got LOTS of great reviews shortly after. Icepick is gonna tour Europe in may/june 2006.

Emiel – Vocals
Alfons – Drums
Martin – Guitar
Piet – Guitar
Sietze - Bass

E-mail: info@icepick-hardcore.com
www.icepick-hardcore.com

Releases:
selfreleased:    DEMO 
NJW-011:        Icepick - Goldrush CD (spring 2005)
LIMIT04:         Icepick - Quicksand 7"
compilation track on a Light to Fuse compilation
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Icepick">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.