There is more than one artist with this name:

1) iD is an experimental hip hop artist from the U.S., also known as "iD the Poet" or I.D. his album Raincheck was released in 2010. He is currently working on a 4 volume series of instrumental albums and can be heard and downloaded for free at http://www.iDthePoet.com
2) Id is also the name of an American psych/prog rock band.
3) id is a thrash metal band from Brazil.
4) D, tu identificación, con quién TU te identificas.
5) ID is the name of a Canadian boy band,
6) Id is a solo space drone artist.
7) ID is a spanish singer
8) Id is the solo set of Jakuzi’s Attempt guitarist and singer Markus Steinkellner. http://www.idklang.com
9) ID is name of czech alternative/indie band, more: http://bandzone.cz/idtrebeach
10) ID is Grindcore band
11) Unknown Artist.
12) Id is a Technical Death Metal band from Austin, Texas, USA.
13) ID is a hardcore band from Guacara, Venezuela. https://soundcloud.com/idhardcore
14) Polish hardcore punk band from Cracow, Poland, existing in 80s and 90s.

1) iD is an experimental hip hop artist from the U.S. Influenced by beat poets, punk rock, and underground Hip Hop, iD’s sound is explosive and thought provoking. His lyrical themes echo that of Gil Scott Heron and Charles Bukowski, telling stories over driving beats and powerful melodies. iD combines humor, heady ideas, and impressive wordplay to create an abstract narrative of personal and political heartbreak.

In 2005, Id released his album debut; "inkpots...”, a concept album exploring the consequences of capitalism. iD has since released two records with his band ‘Genius of Soul’, earning the nomination for best Hip Hop album in 2007 [San Diego Music Awards]. His first full-length solo album Raincheck was released in 2012.

iD is currently working on a (4) volume instrumental project, which is available for free at http://www.iDthePoet.com

OR

Instead of ID being the actual name of an artist, in many cases, ID stands for an artist who has yet to be identified, which is common in dj sets when the official tracklist is not available and the artist of a particular track within the set is unknown to the identifier at the time of tracklist identification OR has requested that he/she not be identified yet for various reasons.

-OR-

2) Id is also the name of an American psych/prog rock band that recorded one extremely rare album “Where Are We Going” in 1976 and then disappeared off the face of the Earth.

-OR-

3) id is a thrash metal band from Brazil. They have released 2 demos by now.

-OR-

4) D, tu identificación, con quién TU te identificas. Esto es lo que deseamos: identificarnos con quienes comparten nuestros gustos, actitudes, sueños y toda la efervescencia de ser jovenes, acompañada de la música. El pop fue el común denominador, que nos unio en un extenso casting por toda la República, donde cientos de jóvenes como nosotros participaron; hoy hicimos nuestro sueño realidad y damos vida a ID.

-OR-

id is a Video Game Company

-OR-

5) ID is the name of a Canadian boy band, who released the album “IDentically Different” in 2000. They had one big hit in Canada, “Busted”, also in 2000.

6) Solo space drone artist releasing at least one CD called Galaxys, limited to 50 copies.

7) "Id" is the solo set of Jakuzi’s Attempt guitarist and singer Markus Steinkellner. He uses guitars, vocals and laptop to create music between broken riffs and beats, dark pop songs and intense soundscapes. http://www.idklang.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Id">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.