The story goes back to the 23th of September, 2002, the date of ID:VISION's foundation. Three pretentious men : Wrathtodd on guitars/vocals , Forneus on drums, and Viegthorn on bass gathered under the name of DESECRATED to play extreme music in the borders of the black metal style. Viegthorn soon joined the band as a sessional bassist. 

While eventually reaching the form of ID:VISION, the band has carried several titles during its history. As mentioned above, the first was DESECRATED. Some time later, the band decided to change the style of playing and performing music. Elements of death metal began penetrating the band's music. Then the title of band was changed to CENOTAPH as the music became more technical and the narrowness of the style was put down. CENOTAPH began to play some kind of aggressive black/death metal with antichristian ideology. In summer 2003 the first demo "Desecrated River Of Life" was recorded that included 4 tracks of the composed material and cover song "Ea, Lord Of The Depths" of Burzum. The band continued having very successful live appearances on the territory of Belarus. Several cities were put to ruins by the power of Chaos division. 

After recording this demo the decision to change the title and the style of playing appeared once again, due to the essential process of evolution. So the style was transformed to chaos black/death metal and the band's name was changed to IRATUS DOMINUS. In August 2004 Iratus Dominus began to record the album "Dispatch The Incarnation Of God". 

In October 2004, Due to some disagreements Viegthorn left the band and (according to some sources),he has continued playing music, albiet in other styles.  His place was taken by the current bass player WerWolfe. The band received very strong support from the audience and live appearances continued. In March 2005, the recording of “DISPATCH THE INCARNATION OF GOD” was finished. In 2005 the band smashed the stage with such bands as ANCIENT, DEVILYN and others. The first strong step was East-European tour with Rotting Christ in autumn 2005, during to which the band had a greatest support and comments from the audience in Russia and Ukraine. On 25 of October 2005, before leaving to the tour, the first debut album “DISPATCH THE INCARNATION OF GOD”, released by THE FLAMING ARTS, was released upon the world.

 The strong will to move further and the uncontrollable evolution of the band led to the step-by-step birth of the new music material, that had a little common with previous art of the band. This was partially enacted by the appearance of a new member, V.S.Trror, in autumn of 2005. He brought the possibility to add the new wave to the breath of Chaos, procreated by the band, the wave of electronic insanity. 2006 was the hard year for the band, full of important decisions. 

The beginning of the year was marked by a few successful gigs with HATE, NEOLITH, FRONTSIDE and others. Unfortunately, the band was then put into a kind of coma because of the serious difference between the old path and the upcoming new one. Eventually, the band finished the creation of the new material with the demo “THE 88 FLACK’S ATTACK,” which was recorded in summer 2006 , consisted of 4 tracks of totally new material and represented the new transmutated face of the band. In autumn 2006 another member TIRPITZ joined the band as the second guitar-player. On the 13th of November in Minsk the band had the first gig with the totally upgraded staff of 5 men and the new face of Trancegenetic Chaos, incarnated in music’s insanity. After this gig another important decision was made. All the members had felt the essential need to change band’s name to ID:VISION. With this step, all the borders limiting band’s evolution were destroyed and the total universal experiment was officially started. In October 2006 ID:VISION entered the studio to record their full length album, entitled “PLAZMADKAOS”. Since then, the album has been released, and an EP entitled "X-ray Sun" has been released as well' available for free download from the band's myspace. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ID:VISION">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.