There are multiple artists known as Identity Crisis.


#1:Doom-laden drums, murky synths, Middle Eastern rhythms, dreamy guitar riffs, and ghostly vocals: The Identity Crisis had the style and soul of a mid-'80s European band on the dark 4AD record label. However, they weren't from Europe, and 4AD never touched their music. Formed in Manila, Philippines, in 1986, the Identity Crisis had an aura of mystery; most of their lineup even withheld their last names. The band originally consisted of Lenny Llapitan (keyboards), Resty (guitars), Buddy Boy (vocals), Bogs (bass), and Marvin (drums). New wave radio DJ Carla Abaya, otherwise known as Cool Carla, eventually joined the band, her Siouxsie Sioux-ish gothic vocals highlighting the group's enigmatic pop on their 1988 debut album ...Tale of Two, on Dyna Records. In Manila, tracks such as "Imagining Oktober" and "My Sanctuary" leapt onto radio play lists saturated by the sullen rock of English artists like the Cure and Joy Division even before the album's release. In concert, the Identity Crisis seduced fans with their elegant new wave outfits and ethereal sound. The group paid homage to their foreign post-punk influences by covering new wave radio hits such as Xmal Deutschland's "Matador" and the Adventures' "Two Rivers" in concert; there were even quotes from Frankie Goes to Hollywood's "Happy Hi" on "Whispering Castles" and the Clash's "Should I Stay or Should I Go?" on "My Sanctuary." But the Identity Crisis' hybrid of gothic rock, Middle Eastern and classical music, jazz, and new wave wasn't built for mass consumption. The band recorded one more album, Water Came Running, before drifting into the shadows...


#2:A hip hop duo from Phoenix, AZ.  The group released their first album, "The Life & Times of Darnell Jenkins: As Told by Sticky & Dicky" on September 12, 2007.  Their next album, Battle Scars, is set for release in October 2007.  The duo is made up of Sumatyme (John Summers) and CTX (James Calbert).  See their MySpace for more information.

#3: A hard rock/Metal band from St. John's,  Newfoundland,  Canada formed in 2004 When Lead Guitarist Trevor Merrigan and Bassist Chris Noseworthy left their previous band "Fifth Avenue".  The two enlisted the services of Merrigan's cousin Kenneth Knight for vocal duties and Murray Chidley (Drums) after a three song audition.  The band added guitarist Joel Stenebaugh.  The band garnered plenty of attention as a solid live act in Eastern Canada after only a few months of performing.  Stenebaugh's stay was a short one due to personal issues. The band continued as a four man unit and began laying down their first recordings of original material.  In late 2005, lead singer (Knight) decided that for personal reasons of his own, he would be relocating to Edmonton in western Canada.  Noseworthy followed shortly after, also reuniting with Merrigan for a summer of jam sessions that didn't progress beyond just that.  Trevor Merrigan is back in St. John's persuing new musical directions. Knight and Noseworthy are still in Edmonton.  No news on what lies ahead for any or all...Some good things end too soon!

#4: Alias of the Vaporwave artist Cosmic Cycler. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Identity+Crisis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.