Idillicah started off as a solo studio project, led by Paraguayan-born Marcos Codas in 2005. The first demos consisted of mixed ideas, incorporating different styles of metal and rock, most prominently Doom and Gothic metal.

In 2008, Idillicah released its first EP, which consisted of 4 songs, of which 2 were instrumentals. The soprano voice of Liliana Diaz was mixed with the powerful and classical-driven instrumentation to create an ambience reminiscent of a barroque Opera, while mantaining elements of metal, such as heavily distorted guitars and double-kick drums. This EP was well received by specialized media, although its limited-printing (which sold out in a month), did not allow for much spreading of the music.

During the last months of 2008 and throughout 2009, Idillicah embarqued in composing and recording its first LP, which was thought out as a “mix of most genres of metal, and most human emotions”, in order to have “at least one song for every mood”. Almost 2 years later, and with collaborations from 12 different artists, “Rebirth of the Future” was born.

The album contains 12 songs, incorporating the 4 songs on the EP, which were re-recorded, 6 brand-new songs, and a cover of an Opeth song, Windowpane. The collaborations of so many different artists gives the album the feeling of being a “mix-tape”, while still retaining certain elements which glue all the songs together.

All songs were recorded, mixed and mastered by Marcos Codas himself in his Canada-based studio, while the artwork was done by Paraguayan graphic artist Raquel Codas. Collaborations in the album include vocals by Niahm Muireadach, Weska Western, Carlos Pinto, Liliana Diaz and Giselle Gines, guitars by Mauro Mercado, and lyrics by Adrian Benegas and Niahm Muireadach. All male clean vocals and most of the instruments (excluding electric guitars on track 2), were recorded by Marcos Codas himself.


Now, the album will see a limited worldwide release on July 26th, and all those involved in the project are confident that “this is the best thing that we've done as a team”. Almost 2 years, countless hours of work, and an infinite bonding of art and friendship later, have come together to create the Rebirth of the Future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Idillicah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.