Idiot Pilot is an alternative rock band from Bellingham, WA. Its members include lead vocalist Michael Harris and vocalist/multi-instrumentalist Daniel Anderson.

Idiot Pilot released their first album, Strange We Should Meet Here, on the independent Bellingham label Clickpop Records in 2004 before they were picked up by Reprise, which reissued it in 2005.

Idiot Pilot released their second album Wolves digitally on October 2, 2007, before it received a proper retail CD release on February 12, 2008. The album was co-produced by Ross Robinson (At the Drive-In, Glassjaw, Slipknot) and Mark Hoppus of blink-182. It features drummer Chris Pennie on all tracks except "Elephant," which features Travis Barker. "Retina and the Sky" was also featured on Transformers: The Album alongside songs by such major bands as The Smashing Pumpkins, HIM, Disturbed, and Linkin Park.

In March 2009, Idiot Pilot parted ways with Reprise following its merger with Warner Bros. due to the poor promotion Wolves received, and other "artistic differences." Harris toured and recorded with Cold vocalist Scooter Ward's side project The Killer and the Star, playing bass, and toured with Cold as a second guitarist.

In March 2010, Idiot Pilot self-released a single titled "The Tail of a Jet Black Swan" through their official website as a pay-what-you-want download. This would be their last release before announcing an indefinite hiatus in January 2011.

Since the hiatus, Daniel Anderson has remained very busy artistically. He had already began a solo project called Glowbug that October, releasing an EP titled Awful Scary, Yes, Very on the 14th. This was followed by Silian Rail and Displacer Beast released in November and December, respectively. The debut Glowbug album, Mr. Plastic, was released on May 25, 2011. He has gone on to release three more original albums, a Weezer cover album, an EP of several covers, a Christmas-themed EP, a collaborative EP with Russian Red, as well as other standalone singles and music videos as of 2018, including a video with pornographic actress Dani Daniels. All the while, he has been touring with Hyro da Hero, working as a session musician, and lending his songwriting abilities to other bands and artists. He has also left his hometown of Bellingham and moved to Los Angeles, California.

In February 2019, Idiot Pilot officially ended their hiatus by announcing a new album, Blue Blood, to be self-released on March 12, 2019. They have an official homepage at https://www.idiotpilotmusic.com/, and Blue Blood is available for download on their Bandcamp page at https://idiotpilot.bandcamp.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Idiot+Pilot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.