There are several artists named Idlewild;

1) Idlewild is a rock band which formed in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1995. The band currently comprises of Roddy Woomble (lead vocals), Rod Jones (guitar, backing vocals), Colin Newton (drums), Andrew Mitchell (bass/guitar) and Luciano Rossi (keyboard). They are joined on tour at present by Hannah Fisher (fiddle).

The band has released "Hope is Important" (1998), "100 Broken Windows" (2000), "The Remote Part" (2002), "Warnings/Promises" (2005), "Make Another World" (2007), "Post Electric Blues" (2009), and "Everything Ever Written" (2015). In April 2010, Roddy Woomble announced that the band would enter a 'hiatus' following their tour. However this was proved to be a misunderstanding of sorts with Woomble later going on to suggest that there would be further shows before the end of 2010 in support of the EMI re-release of "100 Broken Windows".

November 2014 saw the return of the band with two acoustic shows in London plus the release of Collect Yourself, available to download with pre-orders of ‘Everything Ever Written’ (2015)

2) A musical group Idlewild performs mainly Celtic music from Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Brittany, and the Isle of Man. You can hear them play early and traditional music from various cultures mixed into their program, such as English, European, and French music, they also have a great back ground in Old Time American music. David and Carol Sharp formed Idlewild nearly twenty years ago.

3) A band called Idlewilde that has been playing in Connecticut since 1981. Idlewilde performs a mixture of classic blues, southern rock and original material. Their repertoire includes favourites from such artists as the Allman Brothers Band, Stevie Ray Vaughn , Lynyrd Skynyrd, Eric Clapton, ZZ Top, Muddy Waters, John Lee Hooker, and BB King. 

4) An old-time American Traditional music trio playing music of Appalachia and the Old West. Dave Sharp on the Mountain Dulcimer and vocals. Carol Sharp plays Whistle and Tambourine, Mark Jardine on the Fiddle, and Pat Leary on Guitar. They released the album "Promontory" in 1993.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Idlewild">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.