If These Trees Could Talk is an instrumental  post-rock band from Akron, OH, United States. They are Tom Fihe (bass), Jeff Kalal (guitar), Cody Kelly (guitar), Zach Kelly (drums), and Mike Socrates (guitar).

Although their debut EP follows the HydraHead and Neurot school of thought, it's fair to say it's not a direct result as much as they share common influences: Pink Floyd, King Crimson, and other progressively minded rock bands. If These Trees Could Talk is certainly a rock band, although the use of reverb and delay make the music very amicable to fans of "post-rock" music. The band's potential is just as large as its appeal - with a solid foundation to build upon, If These Trees Could Talk has a variety of viable options for its next record. 

They differ from other post-rock bands in that they have considerable heavier post-metal influences but their music still holds the often dreamy, soft, poignant and epic in parts post-rock framework. Their music also has very obvious math rock influences/melodies which gives way to highly complex songs. They also differ in being much more straightforward, direct, succinct, shorter and immediate with the grand post-rock tremolo picking leads; positioning them more on the riff-oriented side of post-music. They do not build up towards their musical climaxes more than they need to, causing them to perhaps not be as meditative and calm as other post-rock acts. With three guitarists, they focus on layered melodies and waves of riffs as part of their formula. Additionally, the complex and energetic drumming carries the music and adds urgency to their overall sound/approach.

If These Trees Could Talk released their debut album in 2009, entitled 'Above the Earth, Below the Sky'; their second album 'Red Forest' was released on March 20th, 2012 followed by the bands first European tour. The effort was self-released, with vinyl being handled by Science of Silence Records. Their latest and third full-length entitled 'The Bones of a Dying World' was released in 2016.

Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/If+These+Trees+Could+Talk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.