Imagine a childhood reared in the nether regions of imagination; a place where the extraordinary is all too commonplace. A place deep in the woods of Wisconsin, governed over by Godzilla cronies who pump the city streets full of assaulting wake-up calls from blow horn speakers. Steady streams of Pharaoh Sanders and Flipper rain down from clouds, as elementary school children sing praise to Green Lantern comics and Pere Ubu, while their older brothers and sisters set down their Alien Textbooks to rehearse No New York in preparation for the high school marching band. The place is Neo-Tokyo, Wisconsin, a cultural crossing point that has bred the world's greatest space-sound ambassadors since Sun Ra checked out of Earth for Saturn. Their name, any which way you want it, is IfIHadAHiFi.

IfIHadAHiFi truly began when space oddities Yale Delay and Dr. Awkward met at Gem Roller Rink in Appleton in the year 1991. Together with Mr. Alarm and original keyboardist Noise Lesion, a full scale sonic invasion ensued. No Karma Recordings released 2001's Ones and Zeroes, supported by the increasingly abrasive, almost unnerving, yet always enrapturing violence to their live shows.

After suffering three concussions from various live incidents, Noise Lesion exited the group; a call was placed to China, whereupon Reno Loner appeared in a vision of grace. It was here that IfIHadAHiFi began to truly develop their message and plans for musical solar system diplomatic domination. After over a year of perfecting the craft, Contraphonic Music Ltd. is heartily proud to bring forth No More Music, a record filled with SO MANY DYNAMOS that it is destined to become the groundwork for the cultural revolution and cosmic dance party already afoot. No More Music is an exploration of sounds, visions, ambitions and lands not often met or even contemplated by the lowly many not possessed with the genius of the cosmos. It is music that destroys all conventions, by radically moving to the core of cacophonous melodies, rhythms and noises that explode and coalesce into an intensive burning sunship. It is a lesson to be learned. And what exactly is it that the egomaniacal Earthen can learn from all this? Live not on evil... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/IfIHadAHiFi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.