English producer Seamus Malliagh makes extremely giddy, hyperkinetic electronic music as Iglooghost, throwing juke/footwork, anime, IDM, hip-hop, and pop into a blender and hitting infinity. The restlessly creative artist's tracks are extremely dense, fast-moving, and cartoonish, loaded with complex beats, high-pitched voices, and rapid-fire samples. While this sounds like it could easily end up being a nauseating sugar rush, his tracks have an advanced pop sensibility and focus that keeps them both exciting and memorable, and they never come close to sounding predictable or conventional.

Iglooghost first surfaced as a producer for underground rappers like Milo and Kool A.D. around 2013. In 2014, he released two limited cassettes, Treetunnels and Twenteen, which showcased his vivid, colorful take on abstract hip-hop beatmaking. Following 2015's Milk Empire, a collaboration with California rapper Mr. Yote, Iglooghost (who was only 18 at the time) signed to Flying Lotus' Brainfeeder label. His first release for the label was the digital EP Chinese Nü Yr, based on a video game-like story about a gelatinous, amorphous worm named Xiāngjiāo. Even though the release appeared on Brainfeeder, a label often associated with left-field hip-hop and jazz, its sound was a lot closer to the pop-influenced abstract electronic music released by labels like PC Music, Orange Milk, and Noumenal Loom.

Neō Wax Bloom
Iglooghost's second Brainfeeder release (and vinyl debut) was the 2016 EP Little Grids, which partially continued the story of Xiāngjiāo while introducing new characters, and included a guest appearance by singer Charlotte Day Wilson as well as a remix by Slugabed. Later in the year, Iglooghost remixed Abra's single "Crybaby." Neō Wax Bloom, Iglooghost's debut full-length, arrived in 2017, further expanding the concepts established on the previous two EPs.

Lei Line Eon
Iglooghosts second LP, and first LP released off of Brainfeeder, Lei Line Eon, is departure from the "Mamu Era" that Iglooghost maintained between Chinese Nu Yr and CT/SM. This new "Lei" era is based off of the summoning of ancient creatures through "Lei Music", and is a much more organic, orchestral sound compared to Neo Wax Bloom. This Lei era was further shaped and expanded upon with the release of Lei Disk [Radio Broadcast] which takes the form of a radio show where lore given by Iglooghost is injected between songs adding detail to the songs and environment of Lei Music. Amer Eon Micro is the last release of this era, releasing as a physical only release - a physical lei disk released at his UK Lei Line Eon tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iglooghost">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.