There are four bands under the name Ignition:
1. Post-hardcore D.C. scene band
2. Hard rock band from England
3. Psytrance project from Portugal
4. Trance artist

1. One of the less celebrated bands on the Dischord label, Ignition mainly offered D.C.-style post-hardcore of the Fugazi/Rites of Spring/Dag Nasty variety. Vocalist Alec MacKaye — brother of Fugazi's Ian, and formerly of the Untouchables and The Faith — reteamed with ex-Faith bandmate Chris Bald, now on guitar instead of bass, in the summer of 1986. (Bald, along with most of the other Faith members, had been part of the recently defunct emo pioneers Embrace.) They were joined by the rhythm section of bassist Chris Thomson, who occasionally doubled on saxophone, and drummer Dante Ferrando, who'd previously played with D.C. scene staples Iron Cross and Gray Matter. 
The group debuted with two 7" singles, Sinker and Anger Means, in early 1988. Later in the same year they followed those with their debut album Machination.
They also contributed a track to the Dischord-released benefit compilation State of the Union. A further EP, the six-song The Orafying Mysticle of..., appeared in early 1990, but spelled the end of the group. Thomson went away to college in Wisconsin, where he fronted Circus Lupus, and would later form both Monorchid and Skull Kontrol; Alec MacKaye, meanwhile, spent the mid-'90s performing in the Warmers.
A CD compilation Complete Services with their whole discography was released in 1994.

2. An emotional hard rock band from Milton Keynes, England who had a string of minor hits in the late 90s, including Leave Me Alone

3. Ignition is a psytrance project of two brothers from Portugal, Daniel aka Ypnox and João aka Zinx. This project rise up in 2005, after the development of each one skills in their own projects. Their objective is to create a new style of agressive full on, with frenetic basslines and destructive leads, exploring deep and heavy sounds. With bpm's ranging from 147 to 149, Ignition wants to make the people feel happy and start to dance.

4. Ignition is also a tranceproduction which have made the songs Final Redemption and Time Flies. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ignition">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.