There are six bands named Ignorance:

  1. A hardcore band from Maine, US.
  2. A folk-punk band from Chile.
  3. A band from Nottingham, England fusing elements of funk and thrash metal.
  4. An H8000-influenced band from Dongen, Netherlands. 
  5. A thrash metal band from Litoměřice, Czech Republic.
  6. Band from Estonia, with singer Anis Arumets.
  7. A japanese male/female vocaled fast hardcore band
  8. A Reggae Artist from the 80s/90s

1. Consisting of Singer-songwriter/guitarrist/drummer Triztan Walker Disaster and singer/guitarrist/tambourine-player Cari D.K. Gibson. They started to play in 2007 and they have released some songs from the demo sessions in Youtube.

The main topics of the ignorance’s songs are religion, atheism, social criticism, the sense of the human life, between others. The ideas from the band are influenced mostly by philosophers such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Søren Kierkegaard and Ludwig Feuerbach. In Musical terms they are influenced by artists such as Pedro the lion, The Decemberists, Belle And Sebastian, Camera Obscura, Leonard Cohen, Bob Dylan, Radiohead, Dead Kennedys, The Clash, Against me!, Homage To Catalonia, Songs Of August, and many others.

2. A folk-punk band from Chile.

3. Fusing elements of Funk with Thrash Metal, Nottingham's Ignorance formed in 1989. The band recorded a demo shortly after their formation and signed to Metal Blade. The band released their debut album, 'The Confident Rat', in 1991 but despite generally positive reviews in the UK Metal press, the album sank without a trace as Grunge was starting to rear it's head and the funk-metal trend was evaporating. 

The band were to record one more album, 1992's 'Positively Shocking' which saw a departure from the more metallised sound of their debut. The band was to split shortly after this album was released.

The band consisted of:

Vocals: Neil Duthrie
Guitars: Marcus Stone
Guitars: Steve John
Bass: Stef Brooks
Drums: Niki Beric

4. Ignorance was a h8000 influenced band from Dongen, the Netherlands. Combining the Liaresque rifiing with a more heavy, Gothenborg metal sound.

5. Ignorance is a great thrash metal band from Litoměřice, Czech Republic.

6. Ignorance is a band from Estonia, with Anis Arumets as a singer.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ignorance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.