Indie / americana band from Belgrade, Serbia. Members are: Ivana Smolović (vocal), Darko Živić (guitar), Marija Jovanović (violin) and Miloš Popović (double bass).

Ivana started practicing the guitar some years ago while listening to her favorite Iron and Wine, Kings of Convenience and J.Tillman, at the same time trying to compose little pieces for the songs she has been writing for years. First home recordings she made reached Ivan Lončarević, radio host of a popular indie music program Pop Depresion (Radio Studio B, 99,1), who offered to enlist the song Bubble into a compilation he was working on at the moment: Morning will change everything? - New music scene of Serbia. That is when Ivana decided her song needed a proper presentation, and since that guitar practicing didn’t go way to well, she turned to a friend. 

Darko and Ivana had already played together a couple of years back in a trio, trying to portray their favorite jazz and bossanova standards. Instantly, they made a perfect music match. The initial idea was to keep the band small. Just the two of them. Initial idea and the final plan. But, as the number of songs grew, so did the dream of their sound. 

Their future violin player Ivana met while working on a project A Star is Born (directed by Vanja Kovačević), a rocumentary of a cover band Writers of Fiction, which plays songs by The Decemberists. Marija was already a fan of Bubble, the song that, in the meantime, became something of a radio hit single. And then there were three.

Before going into a studio, Ivana and Darko called their friend Nemanja, who once played jazz standards with them, to join in, and play a double bass on their debut Sweet Path of Gold, which is going to be released in March 2010 (Ammonite Records).

The album was recorded in two days and afterwards mixed by a dear friend, composer and producer Nebojša Marković (Intruder), who displayed enormous patience and skillfully made it into a small intimate masterpiece.  

Band Ika played solo concerts as well as with other bands.
They opened for Ken Stringfellow and Mark Olson in Belgrade.

Find more details at: http://www.myspace.com/ikabgd 
or to socialize go to: http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=1034971038#/group.php?gid=23709899080&ref=ts

2) Russian pop project

3) ika is the author best known for producing "Miku Miku ni Shite Ageru," which was the #1 song in the initial Vocaloid Weekly Ranking and remained on the charts for an extended period of time, getting the most view counts in the history of a Nico Nico Douga video at a certain point. This work set a model of the personification of Vocaloids and inspired many succeeding producers. On February of 2010 he disclosed himself as the professional lyricist 鶴田 加茂.

On October 07, 2012 he released a revised version of his trademark song, "Miku Miku ni Shite Ageru". In just two days it was able to gain over 300,000 views.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ika">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.