ILEX can be one of 3 acts:


1) Ilex - electronica artist from Dublin, Ireland. Raved about by Nialler9 and Jim Carroll of the Irish Times. Says he: "Animation graduate Holly McGowan's glitchy soundscapes are perfect for sun-haze afternoons and the wee small hours."  1/5/09

myspace: http://www.myspace.com/fringe1

2) ILEX - live music band from west of Lithuania. 

Members:

Agnė - vocal
Saulius - vocal, guitar, clap, percussion
Rimas - vocal, electric guitar
Evaldas - clap, saxophone, bass guitar
Pauzys - drums

Singing in russian, lithuanian, english.

Free tracks can be downloaded at their offical website, www.grupeilex.lt.

3) Ilex (Spa)

Cáceres, Extremadura (Spain) (2010 - present)

Ilex is overall a Groove Metal band, but with a lot of influences whic comes from the different members. In their music you can hear elements from the eighties Thrash or Death to the most modern Metal. Some of the key-acts for their sound are Mastodon, Machine Head, Gojira, Tool or Metallica.

It was formed in 2010 in Cáceres. Its members, previously in other local groups, decided to join to shape this ambitious project. Since then they have focused on the composition of songs for a good repertory and in December of 2010 they recorded their first demo, self-titled, available for free download from the beginning of 2011. Since January of 2011 they will be presenting their work all around the spanish geography, where they have shared scenario with bands such as Toundra, Dimenssion, Gone With The Pain or We All Fall. On April 12th of 2012 they released their first album, Quercus, self-produced and self-funded, and recorded, mixed and masterized by Sergio Hernández in Plasencia. Right now they are focused on presenting their work all around the region and the country and on composing more stuff for their next work.

Ilex are:

Jose Antonio Ollero (Bass)
Jaime Cordón (Guitar)
Curro Corcho (Guitar and Vocals)
Juan Carlos Becerra (Drums)

Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ilex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.