William "Bill" Braunstein (born July 14, 1972), better known as Ill Bill, is an American rapper and record producer from Brooklyn, New York. Having gained notoriety in the underground hip hop group Non Phixion, Ill Bill is known for his diverse lyrics and as the producer, founder and CEO of Uncle Howie Records. His brother Ron is also a rapper and producer, known as Necro.

In late 1994, MC Serch (of 3rd Bass fame) took his protégé Sabac Red and teamed him up with DJ Eclipse and Ill Bill, thereby creating the group known as Non Phixion. Within six months Goretex, a childhood friend of Ill Bill, had joined the crew after freestyling for MC Serch. MC Serch did not appear in Non Phixions first album "The Future Is Now". Non Phixion made two studio albums and a promotional tape named "The Past, The Present And The Future Is Now" that was released before their first album "The Future Is Now", all Non Phixion's work is highly regarded in the underground hip hop scene. Ill Bills brother Necro produced a lot of material for Non Phixion, including most of "The Past, The Present And The Future Is Now" and several other tracks from "The Green CD" and "The Future Is Now".

Circle of Tyrants was an underground hip hop group consisting of Necro, Ill BIll, Mr Hyde and Goretex. The group only released one album, named "The Circle of Tyrants" which was released in 2005 under Necro's Psycho-Logical-Records. Necro produced all tracks on this album. Though only releasing one album, these four members often collaborated at the same time on the members solo albums. 

Founded in late 2005 with no intention to record an album, La Coka Nostra was more a loose collective of artists connected through Danny Boy than a group. Having taken time off from rap after the break-up of House of Pain, Danny Boy took to working in video production and fashion as well as mentoring other artists. He met Slaine in Boston and, impressed with his writing, brought him to L.A. to record some tracks. Eventually it turned into more of a group effort including the former members of House of Pain and Ill Bill, it was announced that Everlast would be leaving La Coka Nostra due to his daughter's medical issues.

Heavy Metal Kings is a group featuring veteran rappers Ill Bill (Non Phixion/La Coka Nostra) and Vinnie Paz (Jedi Mind Tricks/Army of the Pharaohs). In 2006, Ill Bill was featured on the single "Heavy Metal Kings" by hip hop duo Jedi Mind Tricks, released through Babygrande Records.

Ill Bill and Vinnie Paz have since combined forces to form a group of the same name, "Heavy Metal Kings," and record a full self-titled album to be released April 5, 2011 through Enemy Soil/Uncle Howie.

Heavy Metal Kings 2 was officially confirmed and recording in 2013. It was announced that the album would be in stores in 2014 however as of March 2015 has yet to be released.

Heavy Metal Kings VS DJ Muggs was posted to be in the works by an associated producer on 2011, to this date this album has had no more updates or information released. It is not known if this album is still in the works.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ill+Bill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.