Wordsmith, a term thrown around loosely these days but seldom associated with a female MC. With the odds stacked against her, and the consistent jargon of the music business being a male dominate industry, the self proclaimed "Jane-of-all-trades" ILL CAMILLE is focused and determined to make her mark amongst the who's who of the music scene, male and female alike.

Born in Compton, California but raised in both Los Angeles and Inland Empire, this emcee takes pride in her multi-city upbringing. With a deep rooted family background of music, and a natural knack for competition, Camille is prepared to combine all the elements of her experience to provide listeners with a well rounded product minus the "sex sells approach".

Getting her start in music by doing marketing and internship work in her early years, it would be a meeting with one of LA's best known emcees, who encouraged Camille to tap into her hidden talent as an artist. From that point forward, ILL CAMILLE has captured the attention and worked with a host of other industry notables such as Frank Nitt [of Frank-n-Dank], Damani, Coniyac, School Boy Q [TDE] producer Dae One, Dj Battlecat, Dj Trackstar, and Terrace Martin.

Prepping for a duo of debut projects, The Pre-Write [EP] and The Write from Left [LP], Camille is setting out to bring the "perfect balance of sound" by creating content not only for the regular everyday person, but also the connoisseurs of the not so simplified. Drawing inspiration from timeless artists like Roy Ayers and Stevie Wonder she also cites Rah Digga, Kurupt, Pete Rock, Dj Khalil, Outkast and Marsha Ambrosius as some of her muses.

Using family, God and a good beat as her driving force and the support of fellow up and comers, and veterans worldwide, the road to success seems to be where ILL CAMILLE is headed. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ill+Camille">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.