About illegal operation 
 The band consisting of Manolis Angelakis (slide guitar/vocals), Stathis Ioannou (guitar/vocals), Costas Katalimatias (bass guitar), Antony Livieratos (keyboards/vocals) and Marios Sarakinos (drums), was formed to perform for just a single gig at the Athens Blues Festival in the summer of 2000. Called hobART phASE Blue Project for that particular appereance, the name did not last long. Their debut received a warm reception, forcing them to get serious about it all by first trying to find a new name for themselves! After of several hours and several ridiculous names-for example Los Clanovalvidos Musicales- they still hadn..t come up with a name. A second after Paul Ioannou had come up with ....Illegal Operation.., he fainted.. a perfect name. Once ready, a batch of songs was recorded at Action Studios a weekend of October 2000. Produced by Chris Chatzistamou, the Illegal Operation logo designed by Yanna and Solis and CD cover created by Yannis Nikolaou, Hitch Hyke took the chance and released ..Blue Project.. in June of 2001, preceded by a CD single called ..Space Boogie.. and an EP ..Careless Love.. all on Hitch Hyke records. From September 2000 to October 2001 lineup includes Yiannis Marinos on the trombone. In 2002 the mini L.P. ..The Bust.. is released by Hitch Hyke records. The position of bassist from September 2001-2003 is often occupied by Costa Kotzambopoulos as, for professional reasons Costas Katalimatias needs to travel overseas. In the spring of 2003 Antony Livieratos leaves the band, while at the same time DJ Lostromos begins Djing for the group before and after their live sets. Soon DJ Lostromos becomes the group..s P.R. manager. Another regular Panagiotis Kakalias is not only the band..s sound engineer but a valuable collaborator as well. Illegal Operation insist that they are first and foremost a live band and that they are at their best onstage. That is one of the reasons they have built an ever increasing fan club which is run by Danny Aliprantis. So if you are in the vicinity when they perform..DROP BY 
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Illegal+Operation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.