illScarlett is a four-member band from Mississauga, Ontario, Canada.They recently released their third major studio album 1UP following the success of their last full length All Day With It.

They have described themselves as "reggae, rock, ska, punk, and dub." They mainly play in small clubs and occasionally will play arenas and larger shows. They are making a name for themselves in the Canadian music scene and are well known in the Greater Toronto Area. Their most prominent influence is California band Sublime.

The band found their break when they decided to play outside the 2004 Vans Warped Tour venue in front of fans waiting in line to get in, using a generator to power their equipment. Kevin Lyman, the Warped Tour organizer and co-owner of Warcon Enterprises, noticed them and invited them to play at his personal barbecue.[2] Subsequently, they were offered spots on the tour for the following two years.

illScarlett's song "Who's Got It" was selected as the official song for the 2007 FIFA U-20 World Cup soccer tournament hosted in Toronto, Ontario.

The band finished recording their first major album (All Day With It) in Los Angeles, California under the production of Matthew Wilder, producer of No Doubt's multi-platinum Tragic Kingdom album. The new album was released on July 10th 2007 across North America. It was a great success. It includes new songs such as Who's Got It, Paradise Burning and Life of a Soldier. Also on the album are redone old songs such as Nothing Special, N.T.F (Next Time Forever), Clearer Now and Pacino. Their new single is "Nothing Special", which was previously on their independent release Clearly in Another Fine Mess.

Band member Johnny Doherty is the son of the late Denny Doherty, tenor of The Mamas and Papas.

They are also noted for their promotion of the legalization of marijuana, as they have played a few times at the Global Marijuana March in Toronto, and have also been known to throw out rolling papers at concerts. Many of their songs also cover this topic, including: Who's Got It, One-A, and Mary Jane.

Alex Norman - Lead vocals, Rhythm guitar
Will Marr - Lead guitar
Swavek Piorkowski - Drums
Johnny Doherty - Bass guitar, backing vocals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/illScarlett">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.