ILLUSORY come from Athens, Greece.
The band was originally founded in 1992 by two friends who used to jam on top of their building roof.
Dee Theodorou and Costas Charalambidis decided to pursue what every teenager at the time was dreaming of, so they formed a band to play their beloved Heavy Metal sounds.
First name that popped in was “Blessed Death”, which was dropped a bit later. 
“Ivory Tower”… that was more like it.
Maybe way more like it!
They started recruiting members and then the band began rehearsing and then found “shelter” in various studios in the area.
The band’s hometown, Moschato Greece, is utterly well-known for the fine wine, basically produced ages ago but still haunting the name of the city.
Thus, like good wine “in the process”, “Ivory Tower” was maturing nicely, obtaining a better taste by the day, the month, the year.

Numerous line-up changes happened through the years.
The band was rehearsing, composing and playing at various Rock clubs and bars in the Athenian area.
Mostly covers and a couple of their own songs.
Things were getting tougher and tougher as those who had belief in the band had to leave to serve their country (obligatory in Greece) and hiatus become a fact.
However, since “What does not kill me makes me stronger”, when those people came back, it was back to the table with the band.

Constant rehearsing, composing and live gigs again.
Enthusiasm, tension, a lot of sweat in the middle and the first song bouquet is ready to be served.
The band handled the whole issue as a collective, creating the album cover, arranging the sleeve, printing and packaging the promo-album.
It was the year 2006 and “The Ivory Tower” saga was about to begin!
They started selling their newborn in gigs, via mail and thru their website to those who had listened and wanted to listen some more.
Soon the band became an underground attraction and a fan-base shadow had appeared in the background.

Line-up was an issue until then but luckily, with the addition of a few people believing in the band, the “Ivories” (members beloved nickname) became stronger and dared challenged their own fate.
Comes June 2008, the sextet is opening for the legendary band “Blue Oyster Cult”, at a fantastic open air venue in Athens.
Gig was an absolute bliss, headliners did actually pay attention to the Greek youngsters and history began writing itself in a whole new chapter. A few months later the band was finding a place of their own…
Their own studio, the “iCave”, their lil’ creation and implementation place/refuge.
The idea was to have a place to go to, be free of schedules and other peeps interfering and things not relative to them. 

The basic concept was to recreate a truly phenomenal story.
To re-record their promo-album, to turn it into a fresh sounding, ultra-complete professional feature.
They began recording, adding new ideas, painting a totally different landscape.
Then, when the songs were recorded the best possible way and their concept was ready for some serious mixing and mastering, the boys decided to send to one of the most experienced teams in doing so.
The valuable package was shipped to Germany, Mystic Studios and R.D. Liapakis and Christian Schmid.
These two gents forged the songs and boosted them up; creating an album sound that was ready for the big market, attracting the labels and mostly the fans.

The only problem was the name of the band.
Some years ago the “Ivories” discovered there was a German band called “Ivory Tower”, thus it was going to be extra hard to continue with their name, should they wanted to pursue a professional edge to their musical way.
Brainstorming led to the name “Illusory” was sounded the best solution at the time and still does.
The band decided to name their debut “The Ivory Tower”, which sounded completely logical and consequential to their lives and works so far.

Lineup:
Dee Theodorou - Vocals
George Papantonis - Guitars
Jon Moodrix - Guitars
George Konstantakelos - Keys / Guitars
Niki Danos - Bass
Costas Koulis - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Illusory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.