-Discordant disfiguration of sounds, lurking in the back of our heads…-

Illusionless is a four-piece progressive death metal band hailing from Leiden, The Netherlands. The style of music written and performed has always been passionate, furious and driven. Even though their music has never fitted in any metal genre, they have been described as progressive death metal. Beyond that, their music is intwined with groovy and serious headbanging riffs with an occasional hint of black metal. The inspiration that fuels this beast draws its influences from all kinds of music, art and history, aswell as occult and strange realities which are all reflected both lyrically and musically. Not only through their recent release of their EP ‘Rulers of the Sane’ but foremostly through their intense and energetic live performance it is demonstrated what they are capable of.

With the release of the debut EP ‘Rulers of the Sane’ in 2013, Illusionless has made its appearance at the colosseum of heavy music. The first cd consists of three tracks and one intro song that thrives to introduce a new concept of metal inspired music. This work was produced and mixed by their good friend Uri Dijk from the band Textures. He has helped to make the first big step and has guided the process of recording and elevating the tracks to a new level. Despite the tracks already sounding like a stampede, they decided that it could be even heavier by re-amping the guitar and bass. This was done at Final Focus studios by the lead guitarist of Textures: Bart Hennephof. After months of hard work, the tracks were finalised through mastering by none other than Acle Kahnney, founder of the British Progressive Metal act Tesseract. Now that Illusionless is ready to release the fury of the ‘ Rulers of the Sane’ they stand at the precipice, prepped to plunge down into the great musical unknown. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Illusionless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.