Ils is the name of more than one artists:
1) breakbeat, alias of Illian Walker
2) noise rock band

1) Illian Walker was born and raised in London. From the age of 14 he played guitar in funk groups. Not wanting to be tied down by band members, he invested in a sampler and began taking matters into his own hands. A chance meeting in a pub with some Scottish sound engineers led to with sampling and MIDI techniques, and at the age of 19 he secured a grant to set up his own studio.

This studio – based in Lime Grove, Shepherd’s Bush – was visited by LTJ Bukem and some drum and bass DJs, who would use the facilities to put their own tunes together. The Bukem connection led to four singles being released on Good Lookin’ Records in conjunction with some of these artists.

Ils was invited to work for Mo’Wax as an engineer, and he worked with for instance James Lavelle, Derek Dahlarge and Tipper. Following the demise of the Mo’Wax label Tipper suggested that Ils put some of his ideas into an album for breaks label Fuel – the result, 'Idiots Behind the Wheel', was called a nu-skool breaks album. With tracks pulled out for compilations and mixes like Adam Freeland’s 'Coastal Breaks 2 album, Ils’  success grew. 'Idiots Behind the Wheel blended cinematic funk, beats and string and jazz elements.

The next few years saw Ils paired up with Marine Parade for the release of his second album 'Soul Trader' – the single, '6 Space/Next Level', was chosen to soundtrack an Orange ad. (The b-side of this single, Music, was remixed and released by the Brighton imprint. More advertising work, continued support from Freeland in DJ sets and mix albums, and extensive touring around Europe and the US followed.

'Bohemia' , Ils third studio album is out on Distinctive Records. It has a much harder and more lush dance floor edge. Strings and sub-bass combine with vocals from Bulgarian singers Desi and Roni, and with production support from Wizard and long time breaks collaborator Donna Dee. Further vocals come courtesy of Wonda and Rhalia.

--

2) Disaster chic rock from Portland, Oregon, band members: Tom Glose (Black Elk, Knight Badger, Cougar), Tim Steiner (Microtia, These Things, Fortune Club), Nathan Abner (The Days The Nights), Adam Pike (White Orange, The Mediam, Red Fang) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ils">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.