Iluminato was created in the mid-2009 by Pablo Ferreira who had the idea to make a Symphonic Metal line that would follow the origins of Gothic Metal with a fast and modern musical technique, a type of sound that is not limited to a specific line and that would lead the listener into varied ambiences from the Doom Metal to the Death Metal style, through a journey guided by energetic waves of melody and sound.

The project has the female vocals of Liz Demier, a French singer who gives multiple interpretations to the songs since a romantic chant to a dramatic lyric expression in contrast to the aggressive gutturals which rips the moments of calm giving a touch of Beauty and the Beast both in voice and instrumental.

The band was born in Brazil and is totally self-financed by now. The songs brings lyrics that speak in a subjective tone and an emotional and dreamlike air of themes, covering the human being as a spiritual being that is questioning himself in the midst of chaos of modern society. The themes are made to disturb and enchant the listener with the support of guitar riffs and grooves that follow the fickle power of the lyrics.

The first album Reflections of Humanity features 10 tracks that are going to pull out the issues and disturbances of humanity, seeking a direction that transcends our times, without rules and censure. More than provide satisfaction, the main goal of this project is to disturb our dogmas and attachments, questioning issues that bother the human potential, raising it towards a spiritual journey to the free progress of the soul.

Rather than a religion, Iluminato talks about an anti-religion and anti-dogma way of thinking which values the listener as the creator of his own reality, allowing him to be free to express himself and feel the true power that lies inside us, in other words, a true metal way of being.

Official Site <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iluminato">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.