In the summer of 2011 Images At Twilights founder Andre Aaslie (Gromth, Abyssic, Funeral, Profane Burial, Omnia Moritur)
started to compose music for a project he simply called "Black". In the following autumn he started to think about recruiting members. The first one to join was drummer Jontho of Ragnarok fame. Then Martin Blystad (Gaurvorn) from Hinsidig and Pluto And The Planets joined on bass, together with guitarist Tom Arild Johansen (Ihizagh), known from such acts as Perished, Bloodthorn and Mayhem (live). A couple of months into 2012 Balfori (Lunaris) joined on vocal and Jonthos Ragnarok-mate Bolverk picked up the guitar - and the puzzle was complete.

The first rehearsel found plaze in april 2012, and in december Images At Twilight was ready for their first ever live-performance (Hard & Heavy Tour, Gran Canaria). On the way to this event Balfori and Jontho decided to quit the band due to personal circumstances, and in came drummer Anders Faret Haave (ex. Blood Red Throne, In Vain) and vocalist Narrenschiff, well-known from such acts as Illnath and Åsmegin.

In early february IAT went into Marduks Endarker Studio in Norrkøping with producer Magnus "Devo" Andersson to start the work on the debutalbum. 11 of April Images At Twilight performed their first concert in Norway at Internasjonalen in Oslo. Next concert was performed at Norbikers, Oslo 11 of May. 30 August IAT took another huge step forward when they opened Myrkskogs 20 years anniversary at legendary Union Scene in Drammen. 30 April Images At Twilight performed an unique happening at a big theatre in Ås outside of Oslo. They played the hole debutalbum with a full scale backdropvideo.

In front of the release of their debutalbum Images At Twilight went for an European tour with Master.

The debutalbum was released Nov 27. 2015!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Images+At+Twilight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.