Two bands called Imbalance are logged on here:

From Oslo:

With one foot in the American thrash metal of the 90s and the other in the grave, so to speak, you are in for a merciless display of brutal yet sophisticated metal. Imbalance takes aim with strong roots in the thrash metal scene and elements of death- and black metal. No triggers, no synthesizers.

The band originally formed under the name Frost in 1996 with Harald (bass/vocals) and Anders (guitars) as the two original members. After two demo's the band relocated to Oslo and went through some changes in members and musical direction.

In 2003 drummer Welle joined the band, and they began working towards a new musical path that should turn them into Imbalance. In early 2004 they recorded the 4 track EP Burial of Conciousness. Shortly after, guitarist Thormodr joined the Band, and the quartet was complete.

Imbalance plays it's own style of brutal and technical thrash metal on the borderland towards death metal. Strong riffs and strict focus on the song as    unit combined with sheer aggressiveness is a suitable way to describe the music. The band has been compared to the likes of VoïVod, Sepultura, Behemoth, Death and others.

While having a long history, the first full length release of Imbalance came in 2010. "Period Three Implies Chaos" was released just in time for their first European tour supporting death metal legends Master. The album received very enthusiastic reviews both from the underground and more mainstream media.

Two years after their acclaimed debut "Period Three Implies Chaos," Imbalance is ready with the release of the followup "Readymade Contraptions of Descent." Released as an exclusive 10" vinyl EP and in digital format for download/streaming only! While the 2010 release was  very well received by press and audience worldwide, most likely the new offering shows a band maturing and growing into it's
own sound and style.

The vinyl edition includes a couple of live tracks recorded on the bands latest European tour and some extra goodies not available in the digital release. The release will be available at http://www.busted-skull.com and other select webstores from March 1st. 2012 The digital version
will be available through all major online music stores and streaing services from February 10th. 2012

From Grimsby, UK:
Imbalance are a hardcore band from Grimsby, UK.

Formed in 1995 the members of Imbalance are:

Bjorn Christensen - guitar
Rob Collins - bass, backing vocals
Andy Greenway - drums
Andy Bryant - vocals

Whilst being clearly influenced by the 80's hardcore sound of bands such as Gorilla Biscuits, by the end of the bands life they had moved away from the traditional American hardcore sound and, with the development of Andy's vocals, song writing and tighter musicianship, become one of the cornerstones of the emerging UK DIY punk scene.

Discography:

Are You In A Good Mood? Demo tape
March Of The Yes Men 7" (Household Name Records)
Spouting Rhetoric CD (Household Name Records)
Imbalance/The Propagumbhis Split CD (Blind Bear Records)
S/T CDEP (Hermit Records)
Wreaks Havoc With The Inner Ear CD LP (Split label release on Armed With Anger Records/Hermit Records)

Imbalance went on hiatus circa late 2001 early 2002 but occasionally perform the odd gig (the last being in 2011). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Imbalance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.