Origins matter not, suffice to say Imindain were a combination of two bands in 2002 CE. The vision was as it is today - to create music that is the epitome of nihilism and existential darkness. The original line up consisted of: Lee Bullock, Daniel Lowndes, J.M. Cox, Richard Farn and Matthew Whiting
Kevin Brady swiftly replaced Matthew Whiting. A demo CD was recorded live called Endless, this was a somewhat primitive and flawed affair but was needed to further develop. Occasional shows were played and more line up changes ensued with Kristopher Clayton replacing Richard Farn.
At the beginning of 2005 CE Brady was considered unsuitable and was replaced by Stacey Booth. This line up remained solid and performed shows with such luminaries as Esoteric, Indesinence, Pantheist and Lazarus Blackstar and recorded the Monolithium demo - which was well received, three songs of extreme funeral/death doom were featured and it helped to secure an album deal with Weird Truth Productions in Japan of which is slated for release in early 2007 CE.
With great regret Kristopher Clayton announced his withdrawal from the project in September 2006 CE, he however is to appear on the album and will be a testament to his contribution. A split release is planned with French death/doom ensemble Ataraxie which shall be a tribute to the seminal band Bethlehem this is also planned ot be released by Weird Truth.
Imindain will continue to pursue musick that epitomises the grotesque spirit of human worthlessness.

DISCOGRAPHY
The Rising of Yog-Sothoth - A Tribute to Thergothon - 2009 (Solitude Productions 2x CD)
Imindain / Ataraxie - Bethlehems Bastarde - 2009 (Weird Truth Productions CD)
And the Living Shall Envy the Dead - 2007 (Ostra Records 12" LP)
And the Living Shall Envy the Dead - 2007 (Weird Truth Productions CD)
Monolithium - 2006 (Factory of Madness Cassette limited to 33)
Monolithium - 2006 (Self Released CD-r Demo limited to 250)
Endless - 2004 (Self Released CD-r Demo limited to 100) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Imindain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.