There is more than one artist with this name:

1. A symphonic metal band from Edinburgh, Scotland.
2. A black metal band from Rotherham, United Kingdom.
3. A black metal band from Poland.
4. A black metal band from Portugal.

1. Immanis formed as the current 4 piece line up in 2006 which features Mikey (vocals), Ramage (guitar), Hammy (drums) & Hef (bass). Latin for ‘Monstrous’, they have managed to build quite a CV in their short time together and have gained experience, maturity and respect through their self styled ‘Massivecore’ movement. Immanis hit the road for the first time in 2006 with new Life Force Records signing, ‘The Psyke Project’ and it proved to be an unforgettable Scottish leg of the tour and from there on in, Immanis have been rising from strength to strength.

The name Immanis comes from the medieval Latin Goliardic poem, composed early in the thirteenth century, part of the collection known as the Carmina Burana. The poem is about fate, of which brought us together as a band. In 1935/36 “O Fortuna” was set to music by the German composer Carl Orff for his cantata Carmina Burana and in that, the line used in the 2nd verse ‘Sors Immanis’ or ‘monstrous fate’ in its literal translation.

Monstrous or huge, being our thought on hearing the stuff Ramage had written with Hammy. The composed piece was also in F# which was quite handy as so is the Immanis tuning and that it was ‘13th’ century in origin, coincidence maybe, but a nice story for the symbolism of 13 and the song from the first album. The angel logo was always about the Massivecore (self titled) and the fact that ‘Goliardic’ were clerics in the 13th century who protested the growing contradictions within the church, so their poetry was very satirical but in context as the lyrics written by Mikey.

2. Immanis was a black metal band from Rotherham, United Kingdom. The band was formed in 1993 by Grand Lord Immanis after the demise of his old band Xaztur, the project had a short existence with only 2 rehearsal/promo tapes ever produced.

3. Immanis was a black metal band from Poland, formed in 1995. The band splitted in 1997.

Last known line-up:

Nocti-Vagus - vocal
Nekron - bass

Discography:

Perditoris Tenebricus (Demo - 1995)
Aegri Somnia (Demo - 1996)

4. A black metal band from Portugal, formed in 2006.

Current line-up:

Necrus - bass
Impius - vocals, guitar, bass
Arcanus - vocals, bass, drums

Discography:

A Coffin For The Sun (Demo - 2006)   
T.O.M.B. (Demo - 2008)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Immanis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.