IMx, formerly known as Immature, is an American hip-hop and R&B boy band, and brainchild of record producer Chris Stokes. Its members include Marques "Batman" Houston (born August 4, 1981), Jerome "Romeo" Jones (born October 25, 1981), and Kelton "LDB" Kessee (born January 2, 1981.) Houston, Jones, and Kessee are all natives of Los Angeles, California. As Immature, the group released two Gold certified singles accompanied with two Gold certified albums. They followed this with a Gold certified return as Imx in 1999.

In 1992, the original lineup for Immature was formed. The original members were Marques "Batman" Houston, Jerome "Romeo" Jones, and Don "Half Pint" Santos. The members attended the same school, and decided to enter a talent show together. There they were discovered and signed on to Hook Management. Their parents were not sure this was the right option for them because of their age. At this time, all the members were between 8 and 9 years old. In the end, they decided to go for it. During this time they appeared in the movie House Party 3 as Kid's younger cousins. They also appeared on a two-part episode of A Different World, portraying students who gave the character Whitley a hard time on her first day as a teacher.  They would also perform on the boardwalk at the beach in Venice, CA.

The group's newfound fame caused a problem for Santos' parents. Immature was constantly on the road, and Santos missed a great deal of school. In an attempt to fix the problem, they hired tutors to travel with the boys, but it did not work out. His parents then decided to take Santos out of the group. He was replaced by Kelton "LDB" Kessee, who was the group's drummer and the same age as Houston and Jones. While remaining their drummer, he became a full-time member of the group.

Immature released its first album, On Our Worst Behavior, in 1992. The singles "Da Munchies," "I Wanna Know U That Way" and "Tear It Up (On Our Worst Behavior)" appeared in the soundtrack of the animated film Bébé's Kids, and Marques Houston provided the voice for the character Kahill.

In 1994, Immature released its second album, Playtyme Is Over. The singles from this album were "Never Lie", "Constantly," and "I Don't Mind."

The third album, We Got It, was released in 1995. The singles from this album were "Feel The Funk", "We Got It", "Please Don't Go", "Crazy" and "Lover's Groove".

In 1997, Immature released its fourth and final album entitled The Journey. This album featured the singles "Give Up The Ghost" with Bizzy Bone, "Extra, Extra" written by Keith Sweat, and "I'm Not A Fool". In this same year, Immature released a single titled "Watch Me Do My Thing", which had appeared in the movie Good Burger the previous year.

In 1998 the group changed its name to IMx, feeling that the name "Immature" kept them from being treated seriously as young adult male artists. The following year, the group released Introducing IMx. Notable singles from this album were "Stay The Night", "In And Out Of Love", and "Keep It On The Low".

In 2001, the group released the self-titled IMx. Notable songs from this album were "First Time", "Beautiful You Are", "Clap Your Hands", and "Ain't No Need". They also appeared in the movie House Party 4: Down to the Last Minute, a direct-to-video sequel to the House Party series. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Immature">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.