Immensity was formed in the beginning of 2009 in Athens Greece by Andreas Kelekis (Guitars/Synth).
In Fall 2010 Leonidas Hatzimihalis (ex Fatal Morgana, Equal Vector, Agnosia) took over the vocal duties. In the meantime new material was written. 
In the beginning of 2011 Drummer Yiannis Filippaios (Decemberance, Daylight Misery, ex- Ritual of the Black sun ) became the next official member. 
Bass player Giorgos Kritharis (also in Fortress Under Siege) and guitarist Christos Markopoulos came in together with Maria Zvyagina keyboards (ex Wine from Tears ) to complete the picture.
Musically influences are drawn from artists like Daylight dies, Katatonia, November’s Doom, Before The Rain, My Dying Bride, earlier Anathema, Paradise Lost, Yearning,earlier The Gathering, Opeth, Green Carnation, Ahab, Isole, While Heaven Wept, Swallow The Sun, Primordial, Godgory, Falloch just to name merely a few, basically moving into Atmospheric Doom/ Funeral/Death Metal, Progressive waters and inspiration literally from everywhere, but following its own path and frame of mind, whether it’s metal or beyond terms the main goal is to evolve, maintain “immense” but also emotional and innovative as possible.The band recorded a 2 song Promotional demo,produced by Kimon Zeliotis and Immensity.
"The lonely Aquarelle" which was finally released in spring 2012, received excellent feedback 
throughout the metal media (including 'zines,sites and blogs) 
but the peak was to claim the title as #1 new band in “Clandestine cut of the year 2012 “ in Demo category by the known "Metal Storm" Webzine.
The line-up at the time consisted of Leo (vocals) Andreas (guitars & keyboards) 
John (Drums and percussion), 
Chris (guitars), George (Bass) and Maria (keyboards and synths)
Year 2011-2014 :
Around 2013 and after the overall success and well received  demo "the lonely aquarelle" 
Maria left the band due to personal and musical differences.After a period of seeking for her replacement, Chryssa Kourenta was found and a period of isolation and new songwriting had begun,.
In the Autumn of 2013 Immensity appeared for the very first time live in Athens after accepting an invitation from local band Daylight misery (where drummer John also contributes) and British Doom act Pantheist  in addition of introducing new material
but at the same time preparing the recordings for the band’s debut album which took place in a period between late 2013 and 
reaching completion in the beginning of Summer 2014.
Once again Produced by Kimon Zeliotis and Immensity.
The main plan was to release 5 brand new songs yet along with the two tracks from "The lonely aquarelle" re-mixed and re-mastered 
The official title of the album is "The isolation splendour" inspired 
from the band's “Splendid Isolation” during the period of recordings.
"The Isolation splendour" consists of 7 songs (including the 2012 demo "The lonely aquarelle" )

Additonal info :

The line-up for debut album "The Isolation Splendour" was :
Andreas Kelekis (guitars and Keyboards)
Leo Hatzimihalis (Vocals)
John Philipaios (Drums)
Chris Markopoulos (guitars)
George Kritharis (Bass)
Chryssa Kourenta ( Keyboards/Synths)
Produced by Kimon Zeliotis & Immensity

Songs featured :
1. "Heartfelt Like Dying" 
2. "Irradiance (For The Unlight)" 
3. "The Isolation Splendour"
4. "The Sullen" 
5. "Everlasting Punishment"
6. "Eradicate (The Pain of Remembrance)" [BONUS Track Remastered]
7. "Adornment" [BONUS Track Remastered.
All compositions were written and arranged by Immensity
Αlbum cover artwork by Nikos Stavridakis in contribution of Alexandros kelekis & Geo

Produced by Kimon Zeliotis and Immensity. 
Guitars and bass recorded at Tzek Keregioz studios.
Vocals recorded at Sierra Studios By Chrisa Kourenta.
Drums recorded at Basement studio. 
Mixed and mastered at Tzek Keregioz studios. 
All music composed and performed by Immensity.

Find out more about Immensity and download (still available and always for free) "The Lonely Aquarelle" (2012) 
also at the following links:

https://www.facebook.com/pages/Immensity/250810974965150
http://immensity.bandcamp.com/
http://www.mixcloud.com/illusionistworld/
https://soundcloud.com/immensity-official
http://www.youtube.com/user/worldillusionist
http://www.reverbnation.com/immensity
http://www.myspace.com/immensitygreece

*Immensity Is very pleased to announce has recently signed for worldwide distribution with Hypnotic dirge records (Canada) in collaboration with Solitude Productions (Russia)    and has officially uploaded a brand new song entitled "Irradiance  (for the unlight)"  for full streaming and purchase on Hypnotic dirge's bandcamp from the upcoming album "The Isolation Splendour" (due for release by late February 2016) on Bandcamp.com Hope you enjoy... more announcements coming soon !! https://hypnoticdirgerecords.bandcamp.com/album/the-isolation-splendour
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Immensity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.