Fronted by vocalist and video director Eddie Berg, guitarist Harald Barrett, drummer Peter Hanström and bass player Max Holmberg; Imminence was formed in Trelleborg/Malmö in 2010 and has over the years become one of Sweden's most promising acts with a diverse sound and universe, embracing everything from metalcore to acoustic music. Founded by Eddie and Harald when they were just teenagers, the band grew organically with a constantly expanding fan-base from all over the world while being a highly active touring band in Europe since 2014. 

After almost two years of writing, Imminence took a huge leap forward. Emerging from their previous “post-metalcore” sound, the band fears no boundaries or limits, valiantly breaking new ground and taking the alternative scene to the next level with their new album "This Is Goodbye".
In the search for a new sound, the band went back to some of their roots in the nu/emo metal era of the 00’s while fiercely mixing popular references with the heaviness from their previous work, landing somewhere in the ballpark of a new arena of alternative rock/metal music, forced to be reckoned with.
Tracks like "Diamonds", "Broken Love" and the title track "This Is Goodbye" perfectly embody the energy of the new direction and the progress accomplished in songwriting. While songs like "Up" and "Cold As Stone" are paving the way with juggernaut riffs and experimental elements, "Coming Undone" and "Desert Place" tie it all together as arena-residing anthems that once again prove the versatility of the group.
The album was primarily produced by Eddie and Harald themselves, the main composers of the band. However, Simon Peyron had a big influence and role in the process as the vocal producer of this beast of an album.

Jakob Koc, a long time friend and graphic designer of the band, was the right person to visualize the complexity and simplicity of the vast soundscape. Creating an iconic and magnetic reflection of the music and lyrical theme of "This Is Goodbye”. A vulnerable and fierce capture of front man Eddie Berg's inner thoughts and processes.
"This Is Goodbye" marks a new era of Imminence. They created a new vision of themselves, ready to take their place for real in the alternative/pop arena. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Imminence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.