Immortal Dominion (I.D.) is a powerhouse of heavy, driving metal. Often amazing new listeners with their unique and catchy rhythms, I.D. has an appeal that crosses genres and audiences. Established over a decade ago in Fort Collins, Colorado, they reinvented the local scene, paving the way for many bands to follow. They have played in CA, WY, UT, IN, MO and Kansas opening for national acts such as: OTEP, Macabre, Fear Factory, Vader, Deicide, Cephalic Carnage, Adema, Darkest Hour, Trust Co., Neurosis, Malevolent Creation, Dirty Rotten Imbeciles, Today is the Day, Living Sacrifice, and Napalm Death. With a loyal fan base, I.D. has locally become legendary for their live shows. The key has been their intense and energetic live performances full of chugging grooves, thrashing riffs, and strong connection to their audience. Their unique approach is accentuated by the use of three vocals blending screams, growls and melodies, creatively and harmonically. Their music has been called addictive and they’ve been said to have forged “some of the most brutal and unflinching metal Colorado has ever seen” by Westword Magazine. Metal Maniacs has called them “a futuristically-influenced breed of modern commercial metal comparable to what Pantera, Prong and Slipknot all did in their day…I see them as a band that could be f***ing huge if marketed right…” (Metal Maniacs, Firing Squad, Fall ’07) Immortal Dominion’s members are: Ray Smith – Guitars/Lead Vocals, Brian Villers – Guitars/Vocals, Bryan (Edward) Schmidt – Bass, Louie Micciullo-Guitars, and Casey Glass- Drums. Their groundbreaking CD, “Awakening – the Revelation”, was released in July of 2005. It follows the album “Endure” and the EP “Birth”. “Awakening” has been released through Alliance Entertainment via partnership with Hapiskratch Entertainment for world-wide distribution and has received in-store distribution in Hot Topic, Independent Records and Super D Distro. Most recently, 5 songs from “Awakening” are featured in the independent horror/comedy “Teeth”. The film won a Juror’s Award for best actress at the Sundance Film Festival, and was then purchased by Lionsgate/The Weinstein Company. After a limited theatre release, “Teeth” is currently out nationwide on DVD. Immortal Dominion has just finished recording their new project at the state of the art Backbone Studios in Loveland Colorado. It has been mastered by Ted Jensen (Metallica, Bullet for My Valentine, Nickelback, Marilyn Manson) at Sterling Sound and was released in March of 2011. The album produced by renowned producer, Sterling Winfield (Pantera, Hellyeah, King Diamond, Seventh Void) is already generating worldwide interest. The band has also received many local honors including Fort Collins Music Associations “Peer Award” for “Best Metal Band 2008” and "Best Metal Band 2009", Hapiskratch entertainments “Best Metal Album 2007", and has been chosen for Westword Magazine’s yearly music showcase. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Immortal+Dominion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.