Immortal Empire was created in Norfolk, England by Carl Wilkinson who writes, plays and records all of the music. 
The first demo entitled "Between Necropoliptic Realms" was recorded in 2005. Between 2003 and 2007 the E.P.  The Hammer of Witches was in process but not released until 2010. In 2006 the E.P. Beneath Frozen Forests and Howling Skies was recorded.
In December 2008, the first full length self titled album was recorded and finished early 2009. 
In 2009, the demo of  "Mist of Centuries"  was chosen for the Terrorizer unsigned CD and lots of other positive reviews this year with comments such as: "Real brilliance", "Genius", "Excellent vocals" and "A superb portrait" helped Immortal Empire's fan-base expand worldwide. 
For a special one off Xmas track with The Meads of Asphodel,  Carl was asked to join them along with 28 other Metallers from the UK to complete the track  A Song of a Hundred Roars  which was featured on the 2009 Xmas edition of Terrorizer.
In 2010 the well received  A New Darkness Begins E.P. was self released including some strictly limited edition clear sleeved and clear cased CD's. This release was highly acclaimed in many music magazines including an inclusion of the track  Nocturne for the Pale King on Zero Tolerances special edition cover-mount CD.
The Division Of Empires demo was recorded in 2011 and due to the latest live version, a complimentary album of previously unreleased and live versions was put together. In 2012 The Hammer Of Witches was again re released and this time features re mastering and bonus tracks.
In 2013 Immortal Empire released two limited edition digipaks, the first being an album of rarities and new recordings entitled  Upon Winters Throne  in which this new title track was immediately a favourite among fans and press and was included on several worldwide and UK high street magazines' covermount CDs.
The second limited edition digipak  Utopia Nocturnus  shows a more progressive side with influences pointing to a more symphonic structure. 


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Immortal+Empire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.