IMMORTAL SLAVE - (Dark Melodic Gothic Metal) - BIOGRAPHY 2006 Immortal Slave was started in early 1989 by Vardaman (then drummer) and Angelique (vocals and guitar). The project ended with Angeliques death in early 1991. In 1994, however, Vardaman (now having learned to play guitar) decided to continue with Immortal Slave on his own. He started writing gothic/doom/death/black metal songs and in late 1995 recorded the demo "Love is Mortal, Hatred is Forever", which was released in 1996 on Sound Action and Gothic Gospel Records in the USA. This was the beginnings of a small, but global underground following for Immortal Slave. Shortly afterwards, Vardaman started hunting for other band members in order to play some shows in South Africa. Delon (drums) and Anthony (guitar) soon joined, followed by Tom (bass) and Nina (vocals) and the band started gigging in and around Cape Town, acquiring quite a devoted little following in South Africa in the process. In 1997, Immortal Slave went into the studio and recorded a 4 track EP entitled "Frost" which was released on Sound Action Promotions in March 1998. Later, in 1998, however, the line up split due to musical differences and Vardaman once again continued Immortal Slave on his own. (Delon now plays drums in a well-established Cape Town punk band called Three Chord Theory). In 1999, Immortal Slave recorded the single "In Sudden Darkness (Part 2)" with the help of Sterckr (bass, guitar and keyboards) and Morgarain (vocals). "In Sudden Darkness (Part 2)" was featured on Witchdoctor Records compilation "New Breed Vol. 2". The year 2000 saw the beginning of a new era for Immortal Slave. Although the Cape Town gothic and metal scenes were now in decline, Vardaman met up with Rodney (of industrial band Dried Time Parasites) and together they formed Parasitia Productions. In 2001, Immortal Slave recorded their first full-length conceptual album "Cantilena" in their home studio. It was released on Parasitia Productions in early 2002 and found underground distribution in Australasia and Eastern Europe. 

After "Cantilena" Vardaman began producing the debut CD for Rodneys new project Echoes before he began work on the 2006 EP "Notes on the Quest for Death". "Notes on the Quest for Death" is a 4 track EP, consisting of a new song ("Ardana") and 3 earlier songs written in the late 90s ("The Cold Embrace of Winter", "The Plight of All Dear" and "Deus in Infernum"), mixing the harsher earlier Metal sound with the newer Gothic sound that was prevalent on "Cantilena". Vardaman also began collaborating with Karen (Ziz) Ceja, the vocalist of a Mexican band called Ashlar. Karens vocals appear on the single from the EP "Ardana". Vardaman is currently in Lipetsk in Russia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Immortal+Slave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.