2001: Former members of VULTUS DEVAST – Disarmoneous (guitar/vocals) Desperatus (Guitars) and Sucubus (Bass) come together to form IMPETUS MALIGNUM. Joined by Execratus on drums, they start working on music previously written by Disarmoneous for VULTUS DEVAST, and which falls somewhere between DEATH and BLACK METAL in style. Eventually Sucubus leaves the band, to be replaced by Prophanus, who remains with the band until 2003. 


2003: The band enters the studio to begin recording the debut CD “When Darkness Devours the Light”. The band’s idea being to record a complete concept CD, which represents all that the band stands for, without first producing a demo. 


2004: The lack of a permanent bass player complicates the recording process and causes delays. The CD moves towards completion, with Disarmoneous filling in on bass. 


2005: The studio where the CD is being recorded is beset my bureaucratic problems and is forced to close; further delaying the completion of “When Darkness Devours The Light” 


2006: The recording and mastering of the album is completed, and Voxciferous joins the band on bass and backing vocals, but unfortunately due to personal problems Disarmoneous has to leave the band. Although the other members try to hold the band together for a while, eventually IMPETUS MALIGNUM effectively disbands. 

2007: Disarmoneous returns and decides to re-establish the band. Always the creative force behind IMPETUS MALIGNUM, he produces and edits 4 videos, and works on new material whilst searching for new members. At the same time, the band accidentally comes to the notice of Patricia, who manages several European Black Metal bands, and who likes the band enough to agree to work together with Disarmoneous. Mortiferous (bass), Impious (drums) and Perversous (guitars) complete the line-up, and the search for labels and distribution begins. 


DISARMONEOUS: GUITAR AND VOCAL
MORTIPHEROUS: BASS
SPECIAL GUEST IURI "IMPIOUS" RAVEL IN DRUMS
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/IMPETUS+MALIGNUM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.