The term "a driving force" is one way to describe this individual and with the sudden explosion of Latin Hip Hop/Reggeton, in urban areas like New York City's underground music realm, Impetus is just that. Born Leandro Jose Aybar Rosario on August 21, 1980 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Impetus began to develop his rap skills as a member of the well known, Dominican Hip Hop group "Campamento Revolucionario". The group was well respected amongst the followers of the genera at the time. After a string of successful rap tours throughout the Dominican Republic the group parted ways in 1999 when Impetus moved with his family to New York.

New to the mammoth melting pot that is New York City, Impetus found that the rap seen was not much different from that of the Dominican Republic's. The difference was the audience was much more diverse and the city bears much more opportunity for success, but it was still competitive and grimy. Impetus' rap skills continued to evolve with every rap duel he won. Along with a childhood friend already living in New York, Impetus forms a group called "Punto de Referencia". The group makes a name for themselves by being invited to perform at local events like The Annual Peruvian and Dominican festivals in Flushing Medows Park, New York City's #1 latino radio station La Mega's Summer concert at Orchard Beach and being frequent guests at the Latin Hip - Hop Connection events hosted at S.O.B's where they've opened for the likes of Tony Touch and The Rock Steady Crew. This well-earned clout led them to features on a few mix tapes such as "Union Hip-Hop", "Union Individual" and "Hip-Hop Latino".

By years end 2003 Impetus decides to become a solo artist. Impetus was given the chance to spread his wings as a solo artist by appearing as a special guest on a slue of compilation projects released under Crudo Records and a successful mix tape put out under X Records. Ripping mic’s from Corona, Queens to Uptown Manhattan, Boston, Philadelphia and back again, Impetus continued to make a name for himself by captivating audiences with his versatility and style. Appearing on programs such as El Noticiero de Telemundo and Mun 2 –The Roof opened the doors to a wider range of listeners.

It is impossible not to stop and listen to the talent that pours out of this individual. The delivery of his life savvy lyrics and his presence demand attention.



“Ponganse en fila aqui esta el negro que los intimida, no fue en vano ver nacido en el barrio de Losminas, donde amanecen a diario muerto por pila y hasta el mas chamaquito te atraca en plena luz del dia, de ayi fue que traje la vacaneria mia, mi callejera jerga, mi flow y en mi el derecho a una fria….”In early 2005 Impetus joined the Wu Latino roster and became the impetus behind the movement that took the entire Latin music world by storm. This union is a recipe for success combining the Caribbean charisma with the NY style hip hop. Rappers beware Impetus is a serious problem! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Impetus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.