Imperial Vengeance is a British extreme metal act formed in 2007, originally being a studio based collaborative between C. Edward-Alexander (Vocals, Guitars and Orchestration) and David Bryan (Bass, Lyrics). The concept was an attempt to explore ideas and material firmly rooted in the glory days of the British Empire and presenting a wide range of subjects influenced by its’ colourful social and military histories, theatre, literature and mythologies. 

March 2008 saw the release of the duo’s first endeavour: A self financed release entitled "Death: August & Royal" which comprised of one regular audio CD and a second multi-media DVDROM and featured the drumming talents of William Drury. Such was the enthusiastic response to the release, the English gentlemen decided to take the band a step further and alongside the new recruit to the ranks; guitarists Elle Torry (Worms of Sabnock, Everlasting Descent) and James Murray (Shotgun Affair) were invited to complete a live lineup.

In June, the band inked a deal with legendary UK label Candlelight Records and spent the rest of the year writing and then recording their debut album "At The Going Down Of The Sun". This release comprises of 10 blistering tracks of British metal, mixed and mastered by Brett Caldas-Lima.

Largely written by gas-light, fuelled by absinthe and cigar smoke, the songs on ATGDOTS represent an uncomfortable meander through British history and also features an appearance by Harry Patch, the last surviving soldier to have fought in the trenches of the First World War.
  
At the moment, he band are filming two promotional videos: "Unto That End" and "Airborne-Redux"which will feature the live lineup, and will accompany the release of the album. 

Plans for  some 2009 gigs are currently being discussed with dates to be announced in the very near future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Imperial+Vengeance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.