Death Metal/grind band from Czech Republic.

1994 – the first demo-tape called “Stíny času” (“Shadows Of The Time”) emerged. 350 diy copies containing death/doom music were spread at that time.

1995 – IMPERIAL FOETICIDE started working as a real band with their second demo and the first professional studio effort “Earlier Unknown World” featuring Flegin (MELANCHOLY PESSIMISM) on the bass.  “Earlier Unknown World” appeared to be very successful. Over 1100 pro-done tapes scattered to all possible countries made the band pretty well-known. The music itself had become faster, more brutal and rather deathmetal-oriented. A drum-machine was used for the first time. This tape has been completely sold out.

1997 – the band was getting even more world-wide recognition through a split CD with another very brutal and one of the best Czech grinding acts ever DEAF & DUMB (R.I.P.) released on EPIDEMIE RECORDS. IMPERIAL FOETICIDE´s part was titled “Pandemie Of People´s Decadence” – this time the songs got a lot more technical and brutal – also due to a complex drum-machine programming.

Since then the band played over 100 gigs, mainly in the Czech republic but also a few in Slovakia, Latvia, Germany and France. During that time several line-up changes took place (Jarda Šantrůček on guitar and Tomáš Prášek on bass were the true ones who made IMPERIAL FOETICIDE endure), the most important being the arrival of an experienced live drummer Radim Dvořák (GENETIC THREAT, ex-DEAF & DUMB) in 1999 – after four years of playing with a drum-machine! –  and a new vocalist Michal Kusák (ex-ANIMALITY) in 2000 who replaced the original singer Petr Knický.

2001 – the new line-up recorded four brand-new tracks with an original intention to put them out as an MCD but since the band received an offer from RELAPSE RECORDS this material appears on the Czech Assault compilation – out on RELAPSE RECORDS on 22nd January 2002. This stuff will surely kick your ass as it is the fastest and most brutal material recorded by IMPERIAL FOETICIDE up to date yet achieving as high level of musicianship and technicality as possible! Intense as ever, with blasting and weird-beats all the way through, crushing guitars along with a massive bass, twisted guitar solos and insane vocals!

At this moment IMPERIAL FOETICIDE are concentrating all their efforts on composing new material which shall push the frontiers of their virtual death/grind insanity even further.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Imperial+Foeticide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.