Imperitia - Groove Metal band from Minsk, Belarus. 

http://www.myspace.com/imperitia

At the end of 2006 year bassist Andrew Vermin has joined band "Oath Of Inhumanity", created by guitarists Ivan "Marttyyri" Babok and Alexander Sidorcov. Soon Alexander left the band and 'till 2008 Andrew Vermin and Marttyyri usually was jamming but soon new material appears. At September 2008 at the band comes new guitarist Edward Jigalco, and band, finally named Imperitia ("Imperitia pro culpo habetur" (Lat.), Ignorance doesn't free from punishment), has recorded first demo "Atomic Dream", which contents track of the same name. At January 2009 in cause of creative discords Jigalco left the band, and instead him comes sWinner as guitarist. Spring 2009 was recorded second demo - "Locomotive Creation". At Summer vocalist Helen Shad and drummer Alexander "Chaus" Chernous have joined the band. After the hard repetitions 'till middle of the fall band played a couple of concerts and recorded single "Smell of War". But discords between the band members increased, sWinner and Andrew Vermin, becoming the autors of all new staff, didn't want to play Melodic Death Metal, as Marttyyri wanted, and in result both of them left the band to create prog-project Psyborn Eye, existing up the present. Marttyyri and Chaus tried to restore Imperitia but then they decide to create new band named Human:Factor, now they've released first single "Damned Machines". After that Imperitia brand comes to Andrew Vermin and sWinner, and they after finishing Psyborn Eye LP "Fetsus" start to create new material. Apropos, now Imperitia name means Imperitia Potentia Est (Ignorance is Strength). Now planning record of LP, and during this single "Medicine XX" was recorded as reminder of existance of the band. Texts for tracks of all this bands was written by one man - Alex Brain. 

Band members:


Andrew Vermin - Bass, vocals, samples.
sWinner - Guitar, vocals, samples. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Imperitia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.