There is more than one artist with this name.

1. A progressive metal from Greece formed in 2002
2. An industrial band (other details unknown from the current writer of this entry)

1. Implosion is a progressive metal band from Thessaloniki, Greece. 

Current line-up is: Tasos Korkovelos-vocals&keyboards, Alex Papoulidis-guitars, Argyris Tsangalidis-bass, Kostas Anagnostou-drums.

Implosion started as a band in 2002. After giving several shows in Thessaloniki in various clubs playing mostly covers of their favorite bands, the band decided to record a demo of 3 songs. The demo made quite an impact on the local progressive metal community and received very good reviews (even got to be "Demo of the month" in Metal Hammer Greece). At that time band members were the same as now, with Pericles Hamalides as the bass player and Chris Fotiades as the lead singer. During the next years, the band continued to play live and focused on writing songs in order to release a full-length album. In 2006 the band started to record their songs for their debut album, and it was also the time when Pericles left the band due to military obligations, and was replaced by Argiris Tsangalidis. After 2 years of recording, mixing and line-up changing, Implosion have finally released their debut album "Lucidity In Quietus", recorded and mixed in the band's own studio by the band's keyboard player Tasos Korkovelos and mastered at Finnvox Studios,Finland by Mika Jussila. The band's sound is influenced by progressive metal monsters, like Dream Theater, Fates Warning, Pain Of Salvation but also other metal bands like Nevermore, Pantera and Machine Head. Appearing on a masterful bass solo on "Temptation" is the great Kristoffer Gildenlow (Dial, ex-Pain of Salvation). Due to personal reasons and during the recordings of the album in 2007, Chris Fotiades left the band so the band's debut album vocals were recorded by the band's keyboard player and producer, Tasos Korkovelos.

As of today, Implosion are in "hybernation mode" as the band's guitarist Alex Papoulidis is doing his military service in Greece, while the keyman/vocalist is off to Boston to study at Berklee College of Music. But in any given opportunity the band will perform for their fans, whenever and wherever that may be!

2. Unknown details (hopefully someone from the band will edit this entry!). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Implosion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.