Line up:

Jörmundgand - vocals & bass
Cerberus - guitar
Necronamtar - guitar

IN CORPORE MORTIS first manifested in 2002 when Cerberus (guitar) and Attila (bass & vocals) joined forces to create raw and primitive Black Metal. The duo wasted no time in writing their first hymns, but little happened until the lineup was completed by the arrival of drummer Maverick (also vocalist for PHENRIS, back then fresh from his skin-punding stint with LORD VEPAR) and second guitarist Agony (also in VINERFROST and later DAEMUSINEM, back then also involved in PHENRIS).
Somewhere in 2003 Attila fell ill just hours before a rehearsal, so the band asked PHENRIS bassist and mastermind Lord J. H. Psycho (who often attended ICM's rehearsals) to fill in for the session, and they were so impressed by his performance that they asked him to stay as bassist and backing vocalist so that Attila could concentrate on his lead vocal duties. Initially Lord J. H. Psycho agreed to contribute as a session member, as back in the day he was not only involved with PHENRIS but with (CHRIS FALCO'S) DEMON ANGELS and PERSEVERANCE as well, but he soon decided to stay permanently with his new nom de guerre J..rmundgand.

On July 11, 2003 the five piece entered Rock Lab Studios and recorded their self-titled demo in a few hours; the music was recorded live, with only vocals and keyboards being added afterwards. The demo was pressed in only 50, in restrospect a wise move since the idiots at the pressing plant managed to mess up the visuals so badly that even the lyrics in the booklet are hard to read due to the extremely pixelated appearance.
After some more minor inconveniences the demo was finally released in early 2004, and was sold out predictably quickly.

At this point a lot of turmoil started within the ICM horde. First vocalist and founding member Attila decided to leave as he was not satisfied with the direction ICM were leading to with their new songs; Mysterium of LORD VEPAR and later Archaon of VINERFROST (later also in DAEMUSINEM) partecipated to some rehearsals, but neither could stay due to scheduling conflicts with their main bands. Shortly after Agony was forced to leave both ICM and PHENRIS; after some research and much frustration, the band finally found a new guitarist in Rage. Sick of continuous lineup changes and subsequent delays, ICM decided to stay a four piece, with J..rmundgand taking care of vocals as well.
This lineup, however, would last for only one recording, unfortunately marked by tragedy: in Summer 2004, shocked by the news BATHORY mastermind and Black Metal forefather Quorthon's untimely demise, the band rehearsed and recorded the classic hymn "Equimanthorn" at Turin's Mirrorstudio as their personal homage to one of their most enduring sources of inspiration. The track was also briefly considered as a candidate to appear on a tentative BATHORY tribute to be issued by Sweden's Total Holocaust Records, which was also to feature the likes of NOKTURNAL MORTUM, ARMAGGEDON and NASHEIM; unfortunately, copyright issues with BATHORY's label Black Mark killed the project, and ICM's cover version remains unreleased to this day 8although some cdr copies of the recording were given to friends).

Shortly after the recording the band and Maverick parted ways, as the hyperactive drummer wanted to pursue more technical style of playing while the rest of the band wished to stick to their raw roots; HIDDEN SIDE drummer Fabio Alessandria filled on for a while but later had to resign due to personal reasons. For a short while Attila returned to the fold, this time as a drummer, but nothing productive happened, until finally Rage also decided to quit the band in late 2004.
Cerberus and J..rmundgand agreed to put the band on ice for a while, and focused on their respective project: Cerberus continued to play with his experimental Doom Metal band CIRCUS OF DAMNATION (also featuring Attila, a/k/a Moontear), while J..rmundgand, while obviously taking care of PHENRIS, provided session live bass for LORD VEPAR for their appearance at the Pollution Fest in May 2005 (headlined by Italian Black Metal legends MORTUARY DRAPE and also featuring prominent underground bands such as NEFASTA DIES and FAUST) and later joined the newborn Doom Metal project WOLF MOOD (founded by former PERSEVERANCE members) as their vocalist.

But the dark flame kept burning, and in early 2006 a new guitarist was finally found in Necronamtar (also in COLD VOID and sole member of THEATRON); since both Cerberus and J..rmundgand had kept writing new material during the break ICM now have a lot of humanicdal hymns to unleash upon the world, and despite the enduring absence of a permanent drummer the band is currently busy rehearsing for their next strike.

The terror is yet to begin... 

Website : http://incorporemortis.altervista.org <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Corpore+Mortis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.