Hailing from Auckland, In Dread Response are a melodic death metal quintet who, over the last few years, have earned their title as the zealous flag bearers of this genre in New Zealand. Formed in 2005, In Dread Response set out to create an ambitious amalgamation of doom, thrash, and death metal underscored by a dark, dynamic atmosphere with an unmistakably cinematic quality. This sonic molotov cocktail, combined with a highly energetic, aggressive and somewhat theatrical stage presence, ensures that the band raises the roof at every venue where they perform, carrying enough stadium sized dual-harmonic leads and face-melting riffs to build a soundscape of epic proportions at each show.

With their 2008 Deadboy/Universal Records debut clocking in at just under 62 minutes, it is clear that In Dread Response are prepared to do battle with their European genre-buddies in delivering absolute melodic metal bliss every second of the way. 'From the Oceanic Graves' is one of those albums that you can actually judge by its cover, which vividly evokes images of a bloody dogfight at sea, complete with tragedy and turmoil, victory, and valour. Swelling with a near-chaotic blend of pummeling percussion and raw, relentless vocal brutality, all interlaced with carefully orchestrated guitar leads that constantly sweep in and out of heaving crescendos, this album stirs up one hell of an aural perfect storm. 

Having toured Europe with other acts as well as headlining shows in New Zealand and Australia with previous line-ups, this year the band's current line-up is due to hit the international touring circuit in support of their forthcoming release, “Embers In The Spiritless Void”, due out on the 16th May 2011. This sophomore album has taken every sonic element from their previous releases and intensified them, making this In Dread Response’s heaviest and most accomplished work yet. Each song is akin to a groundswell of ferocity with Corey Friedlander’s ceaseless double-kick driven cannon fire being propelled forward by Steve Boag’s bass onslaught and Sean O’Kane-Connolly’s unrestrained lyrical passion delivered in his harsh and searing vocals, supported on some songs by a 16-strong 'Dread Choir', who add even more intensity to the absolute pandemonium. All the while chief songwriter and lead guitarist, Trajan Schwencke, offsets the death metal brutality with a pleasantly overwhelming maelstrom of organised sound delivered through towering guitar solos and heartfelt riffs - courtesy of fellow axeman Ross McDougall - which clearly pays homage to the legacy of metal’s godfathers, albeit with a more modern twist.

With an award for best New Zealand metal video already under their belts for the single “Cannons at Dawn”, and having performed to a crowd of thousands in support of guitar legends Slash, Jennifer Batten, and power metal supergroup Hail!, featuring Ripper Owens and Scott Travis of the legendary Judas Priest, In Dread Response are now set to bring their relentless energy and live show to metal fans worldwide. So if you haven't started preparing  for the impending "Dreadstorm" then you better start now as once it hits international shores there will be nothing left in its wake but "Embers In The Spiritless Void". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Dread+Response">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.