Formed in December 2004, In Eternum is a spectrum of sounds and concepts, infusing heavy metallic riffs with progressive rock. The dynamics within the band create very distinctive sounds in which each instrument thrives in its own space; leading to a unified, indelible force with addictive hooks and powerful riffs.

Each band member is well seasoned with experience gained from former bands; Spindrift and Black Diamond (the latter of which became a popular name with a large following in the South Bucks area). Two members from each band joined forces to create In Eternum, resulting in a combination of old and new. Individual talents help to create a melting pot of contemporary styles including heavy, powerful rhythms, melodic interludes and visionary psychedelic fusions.

In Eternum’s influences lie within several areas of music, citing bands from the past four decades of stylistic progressive rock and metal. The band recommends listening to acts such as; Yes, Pink Floyd, Dream Theater, Opeth, Emperor and Nile for an insight behind their sound.

The debut 5 track EP contains over 35 minutes of original music recorded during the summer of 2005, in the home studio of Mark Lague, a talented musician, friend and mentor of the band. Prior to recording their EP, In Eternum has already supported signed bands such as Interlock and Byzantine, with great reception and positive feedback.

At present the band is looking towards their next stage of development, by playing as many different venues and areas as possible. The band hopes to play bigger and better venues in and outside of their locality and to expand their name anywhere and everywhere possible.

In Eternums live set -list consists of tracks from their afore-mentioned EP, as well as a number of covers of bands covering a broad range of genres; From 'Another Brick In The Wall' by Pink Floyd to 'Enter Sandman' by Metallica. A medley is also a staple of an In Eternum gig, with bands such as Pantera, Dream Theatre, Megadeth, Pink Floyd and Opeth appearing. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Eternum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.