In Lingua Mortua is a melodic black metal band from Norway formed by Lars F. F. in 1999, and is inspired by a wide range of genres – everything from Norwegian black metal of the 90’s to prog rock of the 70’s, film soundtracks, folk music and more.

Their first album, “Bellowing Sea – Racked by Tempest,” was created in 1999-2000. Lyrically it is a mix of Van der Graaf Generator’s “A Plague of Lighthouse Keepers" from their 1971 album “Pawn Hearts,” Dante’s “Inferno,” and Homer’s “Odyssey.” Lars brought in Uruz (from Urgehal and Vulture Lord) on drums, Trondr Nefas (from Urgehal and Vulture Lord) on vocals, Marius Glenn Olaussen (from Ásmegin) on guitar, Raymond Håkenrud (from Ásmegin) on additional guitar, Kristian Hultgren (from Wobbler) on saxophone, Sareeta (from Ram-Zet) on violin and Jonny Pedersen on flute.

Things moved slowly, and the project was haunted by one disaster after the other. The last recordings were finished summer 2005. Since things were going so slow, Lars made the basic ideas for the second album.

In autumn 2006 In Lingua Mortua was signed onto the Norwegian indie label Termo Records and the release dates finally were set to June 11th in Norway and July 16th for the rest of the world.

In 2009 In Lingua Mortua finished recording, mixing and mastering their second album, “Salon des Refusés," which featured guest musicians Jørgen Munkeby (Shining) on sax and bass clarinet, Niklas Kvarforth (Shining) and Thebon (Keep of Kalessin) on vocals, Ketil Einarsen (Jaga Jazzist) on flute; guitarists Jacob Holm-Lupo (White Willow), Thomas Myrvold (Beastcraft), Tony Kareid, Hallvard Wennersberg Hagen (Xploding Plastix, Kvist), Geir Marius Bergom Halleland (Thunderbolt), Raymond Håkenrud, Martin Johansson. Jens Petter Nilsen of Xploding Plastix gave some assistance with the recordings. Lars used his many vintage keyboards (like Mellotron, Moog, ARP, clavinet, Rhodes, Hammond C3) on this album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Lingua+Mortua">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.