1. Formed in 1997 by guitarist/vocalist J. Michael, In Ruins first came onto the scene with the release of its "Haunted Moon" demo, recorded under the group's original name, Black Thorns. The band's sound fused elements of Black/Death/Doom metal with a gothic touch to create a dark and eerie atmosphere, heavy yet melodic. Eventually signing with Metal Blade Records, Michael assembled a full band lineup with the additions of Sean, Hans and Matt. While in the studio recording its debut, the band was renamed In Ruins. The disc was met with an extremely positive response from both fans and critics alike who appreciated the band's unique, dark sound. Gaining considerable exposure through various metal radio programs, the band routinely found itself topping playlists worldwide. In Ruins' current 3-song demo shows where the band is currently at, while still retaining the dark atmosphere and catchy melodies of the band's previous work

2. Hardcore / Metalcore band from London, United Kingdom
http://www.facebook.com/inruinsuk

3.Formed in 1994 in Philadelphia, PA, USA
Members are:
J. Michael - vocals / guitars 
Jason - bass 
Sean James - drums 

Originally formed as a solo project, In Ruins was created by vocalist/guitarist     J. Michael. Frustrated with the direction of the group he was fronting at the time, the idea behind In Ruins was to create a band with a dark atmosphere that placed an emphasis on music and songwriting rather than image and posing.

The band, then known as Black Thorns, fused elements of the Black/Death/Doom Metal genres together with gothic and medieval flourishes to create an eerie, macabre atmosphere.

The band received a notable amount of praise from the metal press and quickly drew the attention of several interested labels. Eventually signing with Metal Blade Records, Michael later assembled a true lineup with the additions of Jason and Sean James originally, with Matt and Hans later being added to the fold. While in the studio recording its debut disc, "Four Seasons Of Grey," the band was re-christened "In Ruins."

As the band was playing various live shows and festivals, In Ruins' debut was met with an overwhelmingly positive response, from both fans and critics alike who appreciated the band's unique, dark sound. Gaining considerable exposure through various metal radio programs, the band routinely found itself topping playlists worldwide.

The band's latest material continues forward with the dark themes In Ruins explored previously and takes them into a new, more exciting arena. Whatever label or tag is used to decribe the music makes no difference to the band. To In Ruins, the only thing that matters is the music: Undeniably dark, undeniably heavy. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Ruins">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.