It took thirteen years, but now it's finally here – the new album of IN SLUMBER!

In their usual old manner, the Upper Austrian band, fronted by Wolfgang Rothbauer (PURGATORY, THIRDMOON), continue with their direct melodic death metal style on their fourth full-length "While We Sleep".
If you know IN SLUMBER, you what to expect: absolutely authentic Death Metal, peppered with ingenious melodies and an aggression that doesn't seem artificial in any way. The band offers everything from blast beats to slowly driving and pushing songs. They don't follow any trends and skillfully show that you don't really need them for a good album. No, everything here is well thought out, every single keyboard entry, every harmony, every rhythm and mood change… everything flows together wonderfully and unites with an interesting lyrical concept. If you like DARK TRANQUILITY, old IN FLAMES and EUCHARIST you can't ignore IN SLUMBER!


"While We Sleep" was recorded, mixed and mastered at DDP Studio Braunau by Lukas Haidinger. The cover was painted by Gerald Moira in 1893 and is entitled "The Silent Voice".

In Slumber return with a new bass player Kay Brem (Eluveitie) with the elegant 
bastard "ARCANE DIVINE SUBSPECIES",an emotional mixture of modern as well 
as old school melodic deathmetal.
Straight in the face power, catchy melodies, and hooks that enthuse all the time.
Again, with Ziggy (Illdisposed, Mercenary, ...) and Tue Madsen (The Haunted, Mnemic, ...),
two famous producers worked on the album, and unleashed an incredible crystal clear and massive 
bulldozer sound, embraced by an eyecatching artwork provided by Ron Morisson.
The lyrical themes are about dark human morals, dogmas, ideologies and perversions of thoughts.
Indeed, with this new album, IN SLUMBER put themself to a high-level-quality band!


At the end of march 2007 IN SLUMBER released their second album  „Scars Incomplete“. The 
debut on Massacre Records showed the band from their „slower“, but nevertheless heavier 
side. Brutal Death Metal that enthuses with pounding drums, two fisted riffs, celestial leads, 
catchy melodies and varied vocals. The provocative and profound lyrics describe – metaphoric 
and symbolic – the internal monologues of a fictive human wreck. 
The textual concept contains the addiction to self harming.



Wolfgang Rothbauer (Lead Guitarist of „Eisblut“, Mastermind of „Thirdmoon“) formed 
IN SLUMBER in winter 2002. Originally formed to realise his personal and musical visions, 
Rothbauer could not resist the temptation to establish IN SLUMBER as an inherent part 
of the metal-scene. With Manuel Bauer (Bass), Robert Bogner (Guitar), Simon Öller (Guitar) 
and Markus Pointner (Drums) IN SLUMBER shortly became a band that enthused fans and critics.
In 2003 IN SLUMBER released the rousing debut „Stillborn Rebirth“. The deeply emotional 
opus treats the theme of the „Borderline-Syndrome” and was loved by fans and media. 
(„An ambitious debut“ Frank Albrecht Rock Hard 8/10 points, Metalheart 8/10 points, 
The Gate 11/15 points). After a 
In Slumber is a melodic death metal band from Austria, formed in winter 2002.

IN SLUMBER is: Wolfgang Rothbauer - Vocals, Manuel Bauer - Bass, Robert Bogner - Guitar, Simon Öller - Guitar & Markus Pointner - Drums.

http://www.inslumber.com
long period with intensive live presence the band started the 
songwriting for the second album in 2006.In Slumber is a melodic death metal band from Austria, formed in winter 2002.

IN SLUMBER is: Wolfgang Rothbauer - Vocals, Manuel Bauer - Bass, Robert Bogner - Guitar, Simon Öller - Guitar & Markus Pointner - Drums.

http://www.inslumber.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Slumber">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.