In The Woods... is an avant-garde/progressive metal band from Kristiansand, Norway. They started out as a death metal band called Green Carnation, but with the departure of main composer/guitarist  Tchort to the band Emperor, they started the project called In the Woods... releasing a demo in 1993, "The Isle of Men", and a full-length album, "HEart of the Ages", in 1995 (The capital E means the album title can be read as both Heart and Art of the Ages). This album was unique to the time since the band expanded the limits of their black metal style into the soothing of keyboards and female vocals, combined with eerie distorted vocals and clean singing as well. The following, "Omnio", is often regarded as their best album, featuring even more experimental music, 11 minute songs with more female vocals and reflective lyrics, together with magical instrumental overtures. The third album "Strange in Stereo" brought an enigmatic change in style, since music got far more depressive and changing.

By the year 1999, Tchort returned to Green Carnation, so In the Woods... released their last album "Three Times Seven on a Pilgrimage", a compilation of three of their previous 7" featuring covers from Pink Floyd, Jefferson Airplane and King Crimson, together with some newly released and rebuilt songs (like the new version of Child of Universal tongue). Since the beginning their lineup went through many changes, regularly consisting of X. Botteri, Jan Transit, C:M. Botteri and Anders Kobro.

After releasing Three Times Seven on a Pilgrimage, they held a farewell performance in their home town of Kristiansand which featured all musicians including the former members. The performance was recorded and released as "Live at the Caledonien Hall" in 2003. It was confirmed that this was the band's last official release. Some of the members went on to play in the similarly-styled band Green Carnation, others took up personal projects and founded the independent label Karmakosmetix Records, created to support new experimental bands such as In the Woods... was in its time.

In june 2014 the coremembers A Kobro, X-Botteri and CM Botteri decided it was time to continue the band where it was left off back in year 2000. Material undone and lots of ideas and creativity was reason enough to make up for lost time once again. More info to come soon.. 
http://bravewords.com/news/norways-in-the-woods-sign-with-debemur-morti-productions
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+The+Woods...">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.