There are a few bands with the name In The Wake.

Hopefully you can tell our musics apart

[1] In The Wake, a four piece band from Wichita, Kansas, performs/writes/records original music. With each member of the band having different musical influences the music that ITW writes has a unique sensibility that appeals to a broad audience.

In The Wake's live shows are very high energy, the band demands attention with raw, but refined performances.

If you click "albums" to your left, you will see 3 albums. "Return to Skye" is an album by a different band named In The Wake, unfortunately, Last.FM has no way to separate bands with the same names.



[2] Your heart is thrashing, sweat is soaking through the shirt of the girl next to you. Your focus, however, is on the stage. 

You are drawn in by the infectious riffs. Breathing, but being beat down hard and sweet by the double-kick infused, melody-driven, gravel truck that is IN THE WAKE.

The three ladies and gentleman that comprise this compelling musical movement want you to know what you are in for. 

Early in 2006, Toronto (Canada) musicians Ivy (self taught bassist, growler and lover of all things heavy), Monica (drummer, harmony goddess, lover of anything poundingly metal-icious) and Jen (jazz-trained guitarist, back up vocalist and lover of all things, soft and hard) found versatile lead vocalist Allan (lover of performing with women) to complete the line-up. 

In the Wake has been recording with producer Sean Gregory of Voodoo Records, who has recorded many great bands/artists including Cauterize, Mudmen, Warmachine, The Hellz Kitchen Show, Ember Swift and more. “Waiting for the Sun”, the band’s first single, has been well received by fans (who can get free copies of it as Allan, Ivy and Jen hurl copies of it off the stage during shows).  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+The+Wake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.