In Torment is a Brazilian Brutal Death Metal band.

Line Up: 

Dionatan - drums
Rafael - guitars
Bruno - bass
Alex - vocals
Alexandre - guitars

My Space:
Official Myspace

Bio: 
TORMENT was created in the first semester of 1997 with the intention of making extreme and technical music, headed towards death metal’s aggressiveness.
In 1998 TORMENT records the demo-tape entitled “Hypnotized by the Profane Flames”, featuring 5 songs dressed in brutality and great rhythmical variation, with psychological and grotesque lyrics, dealing with the ramifications of the unknown in phantasmagorical and surreal themes.
After widely spreading this material and having the chance to play in other states, the band gains a large interaction inside the local underground scene. Subsequently to a hiatus in the productive process, due to line-up instability and the difficulty to find other people that could give sequence to the work in a satisfactory way, the band had to cease its activities temporarily.
Months later, with a brand new line-up, once more able to carry the flag of brutal death metal, the group decides to return to practice, counting on a name change, being now called IN TORMENT, due to the existence of similar groups. This action based on the attempt to make it impossible to relate their epithet to those of other bands.
In December of 2003 IN TORMENT begins the recording process of the second demo, entitled “The Prelude to the Human Suffering”, featuring 3 songs even more extreme and technical, evidencing once again the whole power of their songwriting. Due to a strong distribution and the acceptance of IN TORMENT’s new and improved sonority from the audience and the specialized media, is offered the band the chance to support the Americans Cannibal Corpse in Porto Alegre, Brazil. This gig has without a doubt helped IN TORMENT to strengthen its name.
After several shows around the south of Brazil, the band is offered a record deal with Rapture Records, to release their long-waited full length debut. Armed with even stronger determination to the new endeavor, IN TORMENT chooses Hurricane studio, in Porto Alegre, under the wings of Sebastian Carsin to begin the process. Hard labor later, IN TORMENT finishes the recordings and proudly announces “DIABOLICAL MUTILATION OF TORMENTED SOULS”. Released in March of 2006, it keeps intact the bands traces of brutality, technique and tempo variation, in order to correspond to the expectations of the ravish extreme music followers.
After the release of the album, the band begins the Diabolical Mutilation Tour, playing several concerts in different Brazilian states such as Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Paraná and São Paulo. Also the band marks their first appearance outside Brazil playing an extreme and brutal concert in Asuncion (Paraguay).
“DIABOLICAL MUTILATION OF TORMENTED SOULS” has been receiving great reviews in different continents such as: North, South and Central America, Europe and Asia.
Following the great acceptance of the album, the band proudly announces the end of the second full length composition process. Previously entitled “PARADOXICAL VISIONS OF EMPTINESS”, the upcoming concept album will introduce a band even more relevant, a band even more deadly and extreme.
Before the release of the new album, IN TORMENT decides to record a single with 2 tracks. So in March of 2009 is released “The realms of perception” a small sample of what’s to come. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Torment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.