In Utero Cannibalism came in life in year 2004. The first demo CD “Death-Murder-Butchery” was recorded between may and July 2005 at Studio 5 by Grigoris Papapanagiotou and I.U.C. in Athens, Hellas. The demo consisted of five brutal death metal songs. The band was not full of members at that time until a few months later where the right people joined in and the idea of the band became much more serious.

The line up stays the same to this day with Alex in the drums as the founder member, Kyriakos playing the bass, Bill handling the vokills and Miltos all rhythm and lead guitars. With that first demo CD the band got a contract deal with the Hellenic record label “Black Lotus” for two full length albums. The recordings for the first album “Psychotic Killing Lust” commended on the 3 of Janouary 2006 at Studio 5 with the sound engineer Grigoris Papapanagiotou, Nikos Gigoudakis and I.U.C.. The recordings were successfully completed by the end of January and the album was expected to be released on April 2006. I.U.C. didn’t have much luck on their shoulders and the most unfortunate thing happened to them. The record label ceased to exist due to problems which remain undefined until now.

With one album of 12 tracks complete in every sense and not released in the end the band continued as nothing happened. More new tracks have been written, new material experimented, ideas have taken flesh and blood for the second I.U.C. album. The recordings will start on January 2007. The band has already prepared two promo CD’s, one a few months back called “Divine Perversion” which contains two tracks (In Utero Cannibalism & Necrophilia) from the album with a different sound, and two new tracks (Dead Conscience & Failure of Christ) which will be included in the second album, and the newest promo called “Reeking of the Putrid” which contains 4 tracks from the “Psychotic Killing Lust” album but with the proper and final mix and sound. The band has made also a cover from the historic pop band “Pet Shop Boys” the song “It’s a sin” and brought it to a proper death metal level and will be included in the “Psychotic Killing Lust” album when released. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/In+Utero+Cannibalism">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.