Ιnactive Messiah was formed back in 2004, their first album that was the self titled one was released December of the same year by Black Lotus Records. Two thousand and six was the year that “Inactive Messiah” took its shape by expanding in a much more active level. After some line up changes and a lot of mental consideration “Inactive Messiah” entered the studio again for their second studio album. The recordings took place at the Devilworx studios (Athens/Greece) and they also headed north to Finnvox Studios (Helsinki/Finland). The new material sound more melodic, aggressive and dark while the Hellenic national ERT choir and the Symphonic Orchestra of Slovakia (80 musicians) participate. The choir and Orchestra parts arranged by Chris A. (Chaostar/Septic Flesh/The Devilworx). The album was mixed by Mikko Karmila and mastered by Mika Jussila at Finnvox Studios (Helsinki/Finland). In this new album Inactive Messiah invited some guest musicians to record some parts. JP Leppδluoto (Charon/ex-Poisonblack) sings in the song “Be My Drug” which is also the name of the album, Emppu Vuorinen (Nightwish) has recorded the guitar solo part of the cover song “Beat It” from Michael Jackson and Arto Tuunela (Major Label) do some Finnish vocals on song “Before The End”.

Inactive Messiah signed a deal with Holy Records on the summer of 2006, the release of their latest till then album entitled “bE mY dRug” came on December of the same year and two videoclips for the selftited “bE mY dRug” and the song “Sing” followed. “bE mY dRug” album got some great reviews as 6/6 (Album Of The Trimester) on Metallian Magazine (FR). The band after a two central/west European tours (32 shows in “Blitzkrieg 4” and “The Domination Tour 2007”), a Balkan Tour (13 shows in “Balkans Assassination Tour 2007”) and some fests and extra performances in Greece and Romania got ready to enter studio again for their third studio album.

The recordings took place at Devasoundz studios January/February 2008 and the album released once again by Holy Records on April of the same year under the name “Sinful Nation”. More aggressive this time yet dark, atmospheric and majestic again. Right after the release the band hitted the road again on “XXV Anniversary Tour” with Vader, Septic Flesh and Devian for 42 shows in most of the European countries.

After the tour Thanos takes all the guitar work on himself since the band continues as a 4 piece combo. Inactive Messiah keeps setting the stage on fire with shows in Greece and abroad with smaller tours. In the meanwhile composing their fourth full length piece that in more melodic and dark paths. In this album they will work with Prague Symphonic Orchestra and they will enter DevasoundZ studios on June 2010.

Band members
------------

Xristos - Vocals
Thanos - Guitars
Michalis - Drums

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inactive+Messiah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.