There are three bands named Inbred:


1) Inbred is a hardcore/metal/death-metal band from Madrid, Spain.

Members are:

Danitch (Vocals)

Benayas (Guitar)

Dani (Guitar)

Jorge (Bass)

Saul (Drums)

 http://www.myspace.com/inbredmetal

They released an full lenght album in 2008 ( Retrieval of  beauty) and the Tempest e.p.

Basically because they do it out of passion, this band gives you the odd impression of kicking straight into your stomach, nevertheless of this you have to be grateful to see them!

These five guys appeared on the scene at the end of 2006 and released just 1 year after, at the end of 2007, their first demo album. During this period they got all their hands full in composing songs and giving concerts throughout Spain at the same time.

With "The Tempest", their first incursion in the music scene they adopted a Metalcore sound which caused not only inside their frontiers raised eyebrows. The first five tracks are a respectable roundup of their capability which is reflected on one hand in their well- thought- out composition as on the other hand in its potency.

The Inbred members are: Gonzalo Benayas (guitar), Jorge Piñas (bass), Daniel Itch (voice), Daniel Novillo (guitar), Saúl Sánchez (drums)

It’s the beginning of these five guys, formed in 2006, which principal ambition is to play their shows not only in each corner of Spain but also abroad.

They find the right medium between hardcore and metal in this small territory, but already their view are focused much more farther of what their own eyes are able to see. In the first EP some influence of both European and American Metalcore styles are found. This is only the very beginning for all the fans of the band since their start in 2008 when their first album came out!



2) Inbred is a rock band from Upper Bucks County, Pennsylvania. Band members are Matt, Ron and Murry. Their MySpace Music profile for more information is: http://www.myspace.com/inbredinbred



 3) Inbred is a German Band founded in November 2005.
The former Bandname was The Servants.

The Band was founded by Dragan Maric(Guitar&Vocals),Alexander Naplava(Bass&Vocals) and Christoph. Christoph left the Band after some trouble with his Drumming and some Arguments about the Musicstyle.

After some time(and practise without a Drummer),we met Julian Ghahreman-Rad.He played Drums and so we decided to let him play Drums in our Band. The Band was complete. But after some Troubles in Summer 2006,we also thought about quitting the Band.But the Situation calmed down.One week ago,we decided to take Thomas Hochfellner as the 2nd Guitar in the Band.We usually wanted him to show up his Guitar Things,but he was quite good,so we decided to make him a full Member of the Band.

We are now recording some new Songs and we also want to play some Gigs.We hope lately in 2008.


3) Deutsch:

"Inbred" wurde im November 2005,unter dem damaligen Namen The Servants,gegruendet.

Gruender der Band waren Dragan Maric(Guitar&Vocals),Alexander Naplava(Bass&Vocals) und Christoph. Christoph verliess jedoch die Band nach einigen Unstimmigkeiten unserer Musikrichtung.

Nach kurzer Zeit (und Probe OHNE Drummer),lernten wir Julian Ghahreman-Rad kennen.Er spielte Schlagzeug und so ergab es sich das er in unsere Band einstieg. Da wir nun endlich eine komplette Besetzung hatten,konnte alles losgehn. Nach einer Krise im Sommer 2006,wurde sogar von Aufloesung der Band gesprochen.Jedoch beruhigte sich die Situation und wir gingen nach ca. 2Monaten Pause wieder gemeinsam Proben.Seit ca. 1 Woche haben wir endlich einen zweiten Gitarristen gefunden.Thomas Hochfellner ging eigentlich nur zum Vorspielen zur Probe mit und wurde am selben Tag noch volles Mitglied der Band.

Im moment sind wir mit der Aufnahme von neuen Songs beschaeftigt.Spaetestens im Januar 2008 sollten dann die ersten Auftritte folgen.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/inbred">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.