There are 2 bands with the artist name Incantation.

1) A death metal band formed in New Jersey by formed by John McEntee and Paul Ledney in 1989.  The two were previously played together in Revenant.  The band is currently located in Johnstown, Pennsylvania.  Incantation was one of Relapse Records' first signings, releasing their initial seven inches and a handful of albums with them. The band has seen many lineup changes in their eighteen year history and guitarist John McEntee is the sole original member. They have released 10 full-length studio albums to date as well as a range of EPs, split releases, compilations and live albums. The band is notable for mixing widely varied tempos into their music, often playing slow, down-tuned passages similar to those performed by other death-doom bands like Autopsy, Winter, and Disembowelment. 

Incantation first came to prominence with Onward to Golgotha and Mortal Throne of Nazarene, which features Craig Pillard on vocals. Following the release of the Forsaken Mourning of Angelic Anguish EP in 1997, Pillard departed Incantation and was replaced by Daniel Corchado of The Chasm. Corchado performed on one album, 1998's Diabolical Conquest, before departing. Vocalist Mike Saez performed on the next two albums, The Infernal Storm (2000) and Blasphemy (2002). Beginning with Decimate Christendom, guitarist and frontman John McEntee took on vocal responsibilities, a role that he continues to the present.

2) A Tribal Flute Band.

Incantation is also a Tribal Flute Band (Musical Group)

The band are a musical group playing traditional tribal and other South American music. The band started in 1981 from a pool of musicians who were, at the time, playing all kinds of different types of music for the (then) Ballet Rambert, based in London. A new ballet was choreographed (called “Ghost Dances”) about political oppression in South America, to the music of Inti-Illimani, the exiled Chilean folk group.

Incantation was chosen as the band’s name, based on the word “Inca”. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Incantation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.