INCAPACITY, spewing fast forward from the dark pits of Sweden are largely noted as a true "death metal supergroup". The band was formed in 2002 by Anders Edlund of SOLAR DAWN. The idea of the the then just a "project" was to play old school-themed death/thrash metal with a bit of a melodic, modern touch. In a short time, Anders gathered a solid line-up from experienced, veteran metal musicians from more or less known bands like UNMOORED, Solar Dawn, EDGE OF SANITY, PAN-THY-MONIUM and TORCHBEARER. Robert Ivarsson and Christian Älvestam took the role as guitarists, Anders himself picked up the 4-string, Henrik Schönström was recruited for drums and Andreas Axelsson stepped in to handle the vocals. 

This was to become the first stable Incapacity line-up, and the band then set on for recording of the debut album. "Chaos Complete" was quickly rehearsed and written during the same year. The album was then recorded and released in 2003 by COLD RECORDS. The album delivered quality christhating death/thrash metal with melodic influences and veteran musicianship, and the album was well received in the underground. 

It was largely speculated Incapacity's tale would end to this very same album, for the band being a critically acclaimed "supergroup" and members having many other bands. Incapacity, however, had become more than a project. The band threw various, intense gigs and gained a steady following in the underground. Once again the veteran musicians of the band rehearsed and wrote quality music in a very short time, and the second album "Ninth Order Extinct" was released only a year after the highly acclaimed debut.

Incapacity, after a few succesful tours, then lost three members and even founding member Anders Edlund left the group, due to lack of interest. Only guitarist Christian Älvestam and drummer Henrik Schonstrom were left in the band. The "band" even lost their record deal, due to Anders leaving the group.. Surprisingly, Incapacity did not die, for Christian Älvestam had other ideas.. Instead of killing the band, Älvestam recruited three new members, one notably being Johan Lindastrand (ex-THE CROWN) for lead vocals, who had done a few gigs with them in the past. Robert Ahrling of ORIGIN BLOOD was quickly recruited for lead guitar and Mikael Håkansson of EVERGREY and THE PROJECT HATE MCMXCIX stepped then in to play the bass. The band, now with a new, strong line-up, signed a new record deal with record label RAHW and things seemed to change course for the better. 

INCAPACITY, now stronger and more satanic than ever, then went on a long hiastus due to members spending time with their countless other bands. Incapacity was not completely but on ice, and the band is now currently slowly but surely in the process of writing material for the third album, which has been entitled "Iconoclast".

Current line-up:

Johan Lindstrand - lead vocals
Christian Älvestam - rhythm guitar and backing vocals
Robert Ahrling - lead guitar
Mikael Håkansson - bass
Henrik Schönström - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Incapacity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.