Inciter are a metal band from Zagreb, Croatia, formed in 2000 and led by their founder Vedran Cecelja.

By the year 2003 they had recorded three demos which earned them an avid fan base in the local underground metal scene and enabled them to play shows all over the country. During their early years they came to be known and respected as a young metal attraction with the distinguishable influence of Metallica. Inciter, naturally, consider the fact a compliment, as well as an advantage, and take pride in it. After playing over a hundred shows, it became clear that their playing had improved and progressed to the extent that they were ready for a real challenge. With strong will and determination to produce a full-length album, Inciter started their recording sessions in the spring of 2006 and completed them in the course of a few days.

Inciter’s debut album, Burned Out Cells, was released in late 2006, followed shortly by a touring cycle which aimed to promote their record anywhere possible. They won several band competitions and appeared both on TV and radio stations throughout the entire country. As time went by, they wrote some new material for their second album and in the spring of 2009 they were ready to start recording sessions.

Their sophomore album, Salvation, which proved to be an immense step forward in terms of songwriting and production, was released in March 2010. It became more than evident that the band had musically progressed and started incorporating more melodic choruses and catchy grooves which basically became their signature sound. Inciter once again started touring in order to promote the new record and ended up playing as supporting acts for metal giants like Lamb Of God, Anthrax, Iced Earth and Saxon.

2010 was a great year for the band as they had decided to commemorate a decade of hard work and dedication by taking their career a major step further and recording a live DVD. The perfect opportunity for such an undertaking presented itself in March 2010 at Inciter’s concert in Zagreb club Močvara, organized in order to promote and celebrate the release of Salvation.

Their DVD release, Incite This Live, represents the high level of the band’s performance and the raw energy they are known for. Their journey continues as they write new material for their third record and play live shows wherever the road takes them.

Band line up:
Vedran Cecelja - guitar and vocals
Dario Polovina - guitar
Igor Cecelja - bass
Alen Frljak - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inciter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.