Penetrating, clear, sharp, direct, forceful… These are all words that you will find in the dictionary next to the word ‘Incisive’. So, although you may not be familiar with the 27-year-old rapper/producer who goes by this name, it is a given; this won’t be the case for long.

The gifted and vibrant, west London, by way of Ladbroke Grove, emcee is intent on setting the British music scene a blaze with his blend of witty positive lyrics, cool as ice flow and fresh-to-death production. This is evident on his recently released Mixtape/EP “Where is he”, of which the smooth, bassline driven head nodding title track featured longtime friend, UK favourite “Shakka” and was selected as BBC 1xtras Introducing record of the week and video held the number 1 spot on the MTV Base chart for 2 weeks.

‘I hope to bring realness back to the industry,’ says the rising star. ‘We need real topics and real music back in hip-hop. 
‘That’s why I choose topics most people out there can relate to and why I like to use proper instrumentation and live vocalists on my stuff. I have another track called Nothing Compares and I speak about how there is nothing better than organic music. That is very important to me, ensuring that melody and feeling are an integral part of everything I put out there.’

Incisive has had previous singles see airtime on all major radio stations as well as TV stations such as MTV Base, Flava and BET. He has also been building his fan base with his explosively energetic full band performances in almost every live show the East London scene has to offer from iLuvLive to Wired in Shoreditch House and is now expanding his horizons performing in and around the midlands and west country. This is no surprise as despite his young age, Incisive, born Reuben Adamah, has been building his music career for a lengthy 16 years.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Incisive">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.