Incontinence are a four-piece death metal band hailing from the Capital Region of Upstate New York, formed in 2013. They play a punishing yet very catchy form of death metal loosely in the vein of classic Morbid Angel, Suffocation and Dying Fetus. Their sound is augmented with other influences including (but not limited to) Voivod, Death, "big4" thrash bands (especially Slayer), Danish "chunky" death metal bands such as Dawn of Demise, and "hypnotic" death metal bands such as Vengeful. The goal is to bring plenty of brutality to the metal-minded masses, but within a package of strong songs that hook the listener in and don't let go. With their debut full-length album entitled Prey For Us, Incontinence hopes to make good on that promise.
The core of Incontinence are the trio of David Seacord (guitar/vocals), Dave Matthews (guitar/vocals) and John Glassbrenner (drums). This trio have been at it in the Upstate NY metal scene together for nearly 20 years, honing their craft in both their previous band Held Under and also other projects such as Dry Heave and Burial, while Dave Matthews specifically is also a current member of Upstate NY death metal legends Skinless. Rounding out the lineup is Eric Boyd on bass guitar, a good friend of John's who completed a largely drama-free lineup. 
Incontinence boasts a vitriolic twin-vocal attack in addition to a classic twin guitar approach with dueling guitar lines and tasteful, melodic trade off solos. The rhythm guitar attack also provides plenty of chunk--the main guitars deployed within their arsenal of weaponry on Prey For Us are custom built 8-string axes hand-built by Dave Matthews himself (the METAL Dave Matthews, that is). Elsewhere, John Glassbrenner on drums provides Incontinence with a variety of blasts, grooves, propulsive double kicks and unique fills throughout, while Eric brings up the low end with solid, traditional basswork. None of the playing ability would matter without decent songwriting, however, and Incontinence are set to prove they have what it takes to write death metal songs that will stick with the listener and stand the test of time. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Incontinence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.