INCRAVE was formed early 2001 under the name Evergrace in the Swedish town of Edsbyn, by six individuals on a singular mission to create quality Heavy Metal. It didn't take long for them to find their own sound, however, they have been compared to bands such as Tad Morose, Nocturnal Rites, Morgana Lefay, Dream Evil and Evergrey.

During their first years, they played many shows in Sweden, and after singer Johan Falk returned from one year of vocal studies in Huskvarna, the band decided it was time to start working on their debut album. The album was written and recorded during 2006.

A deal was inked with Ulterium Records Sweden, and September 2006 marked the release of the band's self-titled debut album, which instantly got very good reactions from media and the metal audience all over the world. The coming year saw the band touring venues all over Sweden, and also visits to Norway and Switzerland was included. In February 2007, Evergrace decided to change their name, and in April the debut album was re-released under the new band name, INCRAVE, and with the album title being changed to, "The Escape".

Summer 2007 INCRAVE once again entered Studio EVG in Edsbyn Sweden, to record the follow-up to "The Escape." This time out, the album was mixed and mastered by Per Ryberg [Morgana Lefay, Tad Morose, Bloodbound] at Studio Soundcreation, and the artwork was painted by Kristian Wåhlin [At the gates, Emperor, Therion]. The name of the new album is “Dead End.”

While INCRAVE is a young band, with an average age of 22, on this outing, there's a maturity and refinement in terms of song writing, performance, and production that exceeds their age. With an album such as "Dead End," INCRAVE looks forward to the future, and their entering into the world-stage with forthcoming touring, and overall world domination.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Incrave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.