There is more than one artist with this name:

1) INDIGO CHILD is the name of a band formed in early 2003 in a  heavy-industrial town in Slovenia. INDIGO CHILD is five individuals who represent a new era of musicians giving tremendous emotions to the audience, with a wide spread union of different artists. The band's live appearance on the 'Sudden Strike Tour' in early 2003 has been a taste of what's cooking and Media all over the scene were surprised. The Bands intentions have been shared and known to a worldwide underground population. 

Shortly after, the Band felt finally compelled to record their creations as a demo-CD 'Involve Synthetic', featuring four tracks: Involve Synthetic, Death, The Roots of Eden and Divine Communication. Since then, INDIGO CHILD have worked even harder on their sound, industrial electronic parts and atmosphere of worlds corronation. Debut album 'Re-death' was recorded during the year 2004, kept in secret until 2005. In 2005, the long awaited limited edition Digipak-CD was released and sold out shortly after. Gothic/Metal press all over the world described the Band as a 'Newcomer of the year!'. INDIGO CHILD's video for the track 'Involve Synthetic' was accepted with amazement by the fans and media receiving numerous awards including first place on the national video charts. It's time to meet & experience the myth itself...

http://www.indigochildmusic.com 


2) Indigo Child is a band from London, UK playing an eclectic mix of indie that's influenced   strongly by acts of old such as King Crimson, Roxy Music and Yes as well as newer bands such as Mystery Jets, Animal Collective and the Mars Volta. 
The band comprises many musical elements including Saxophones and Trombones, Organs and Syths, Sample machines and Electronic drums as well as the elements of a standard guitar band.  
Their first single 'Invisible Ink' was released by Airbag recordings in Summer 2007. This is the band in the photo. 

http://www.myspace.com/indigochildmusic


3) Indigo Child is the moniker of Canadian-born, Chilean-raised Gabriel Gutiérrez. His music is of an experimental nature, incorporating elements of electronic, rock, and folk - all accompanying lyrics that reflect his belief in duality, balance, nature and love. He has self-released one album entitled 'Chocolate' which is offered as a free download on his MySpace page.

http://www.myspace.com/betheindigo <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Indigo+Child">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.