There are a number of musical acts taking the name Inertia. 

(1)The original Inertia was an obscure early 80's (1980, 1981) new wave/minimal wave band from Uxbridge, Middlesex England. Featured twice on legendary "Tribute to Flexi-Pop" volumes. Several 7''s released on Inertial Records, one on L'Invitation Au Suicide

(2) Inertia was formed in 1992 Reza Udhin, who more recently became the live keyboard player for Killing Joke.

After an extensive period with other industrial acts, Reza decided to concentrate on a solo project which brought together elements of Industrial and Techno to form something quite different to anything in the scene at that time.

INERTIA were signed to Germany's Celtic Circle Productions in 1994, and released their debut MCD INFILTRATOR, in June 1995. This CD was a re-recording of the band's first demo tape.

INFILTRATOR was a success, achieving excellent reviews across Europe, UK and USA. The CD was played at several clubs where it became an instant hit.

INERTIA marked their first European live performance in September 1995, when they played Celtic Circle's NIGHT OF DARKNESS festival at the Kulturfabrik in Krefeld, Germany. INERTIA returned again to play Europe in December 1995, playing to audiences in Switzerland, Germany and Belgium, attracting a huge following.

They returned in April 1996, to play at the Wave Gotik Treffen festival in Leipzig, Germany.

INERTIA returned to the studio in February 1996 to start work on PROGRAMMED TO RESPOND CD album and MIND-ENERGY MCD.

MIND-ENERGY was released in December 1996 and PTR released in February 1997. These CD's achieved a high amount of success in Europe and USA. So much that INERTIA did a mini US tour in January 1997, and then returned to the States to do a full-blown US tour in May 1997, together with the German band DAS ICH. This tour was overwhelmingly successful and created a huge audience for INERTIA in the USA.

February 1999, INERTIA release a remix album entitled DEMAGNETIZED/REMAGNETIZED, which featured remixes by artists such as, Das Ich, Spahn Ranch, Julian Beeston (Nitzer Ebb).

A UK tour was completed in September 1998, a Fall 1999 Scandinavian tour was impressively successful which saw the band play to audiences in Sweden, Norway and Denmark and an ecstatic audience reaction was received when the band returned to Leipzig, Germany for the Wave Gotik Treffen 1999.

A brand new album, NEGATIVE PRIME, was released in May 1999 on NIGHTBREED RECORDINGS, which pushed the sound of INERTIA to further heights. 1999 also saw the band complete a UK tour with the US band SPAHN RANCH.

A remix CD Positive Angel was released on Inertia's own label CRYONICA MUSIC. And Inertia's 2nd USA Tour took place in Summer 2000, which saw Inertia headline their own tour.

The band then returned to the USA again in 2001, and took Sweden's Project-X with them as support for a mega 7 week tour!!!!

November 2001, the new single No Defect is released, while the band complete their brand new album Advanced Revelation due for release in February 2002.

Inertia head out on the road in 2003, completing a 4 week East Coast US tour with New Yorkers Terrorfakt, as Support.

They return in 2004 for a west Coast tour, taking label mates SWARF with them as support.

2004, the album Black Ice Impact is released to great praise. 

December 2005 the band release their "best of" Double CD "Decade of Machines". This DCD is released by Cryonica Music in Europe and Cleopatra Records in the USA.

May 2007, brandnew self titled album "Inertia" is released on Cryonica Music and the band complete a 6 week USA Tour in April/May 2007.

Throughout 2008, Inertia tour extensively throughout the UK and Europe.

August 2009, "Interpret", a new Inertia Remix album with remixes from musical giants such as Youth (Producer/Killing Joke), Die Krupps and Armageddon Dildos featured, is released by Japanese label Deathwatch Asia.

Inertia were recently described by electronic pioneer GARY NUMAN as "the best and most aggressive band in London".

Reza Udhin is also the keyboard player for the legendary Rock band Killing Joke.

INERTIA is: Reza Udhin, Alexys B, Andrew Trail and Bob Malkowski.

(3)INERTIA is an alias of trance producer duo John O'Callaghan and Neal Scarborough.
They are known to have released three tracks: The Emerald (2004), The Chamber (2005), The System(2008) all of them released at Discover Label. Another LP was released in 2006 at Discover Digital, having as side A Inertia - The Chamber (Activa Remix), and side B Askew & O'Callaghan - Game Over (Ian Betts Mix). The System was remixed by many uplifting trance artists such as Sean Tyas, Tom Colontonio and Thomas Bronzwaer.

INERTIA (4)  is an alias of electronic artist PureH.

(5) INERTIA: a San Diego band that formed in October 2009. Their music features guitar, ukulele, bass guitar, and drums. Has former members of other San Diego bands including Monte Battalion.

(6) An acoustic rock band from Kippax, Yorkshire, UK, active in the late 1990's

(7) An Alternative Rock band with Extreme roots known as Inertia , more commonly " Inertia The Rock Band " has formed out of Orange County, Ca ( U.S.A ) in 2014 and have released an album called " The Process" . This 4 piece rock outfit writes music about growing up and being positive through life changes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inertia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.