Inexist was formed in summer 2001 in Yaroslavl city in Russia as a Modern Metal band.  New created material got into demo-album called “Evidence”. The band played its 1st concert on the 24 of April 2002 in “October” cinema in Yaroslavl. In two weeks the band played in “Partizan” club. In summer 2002 Inexist started recording its demo-album “Evidence”, at Yaroslavl studio Megabyte under the guidance of Roman Voronov. 

Demo-album “Evidence” got nice reviews amids hard music audience, which gave confidence to the band.  In the period of fall  2002 - spring  2003, together with intermittent perfomances in “Partizan”, the recording of new material started.

From the end of Feb 2004 Inexist started recording debut album “Am I Senseless?” on the Megabyte Rec. 

Abum appeared in 2004 at the Russian lable Stygian Crypt Prod and got perfect reviews of the media from the whole world! The band played lots of concerts in different Russian and Ukrainian cities in fall 2004-2006.

In Jan 2006 the band signed a contract with young Russian lable Mazzar/Mystic Empire. In March the recording of new album "Relax and feel free" started in the Dreamport studio together with Maks Samosvat (Epidemia, Mechanical Poet). In Apr the band finished “Tracking” recording. Reducing and mastering were planned to be given to Jacob Hansen, but specified beforehand limits in June were successfully f***ed up and Jacob was reserved by the band [Amatory] for the recording of their album “The book of Dead”. So the band had to find another man to carry the album to its logical finish. In Sept the arrangement for the album was finished. Later the band had tour in Ukraine, organized by froster.org. After the tour the album was given to St. Petersburg professional Alexander JD Karelin (Fourth Dimension, Amatory, Perimeter e.t.c) for mastering.  The work exceeded all the expectations!!!! The album “Relax and feel free” appeared 12 Dec 2006 and again got perfect reviews of media and fans!

During 2007 the band played on tour in Russia, Ukraine. Between the tour IneXist started working on new material. The decision about “transfering” to Russian language was taken which was uneasy to the guys. At the end of June 2007 in Yaroslavl their was made the 1st professional video-clip to the song “Towards the dream” which scenario had no analogues in Russia. The producer was famous St. Petersburg firm Havefun visuals (jane air,4 dimension, amatory, origamy, slezi etc) under the guidance of Ivan Egorov. In shooting took part good friends of Yaroslavians the band “Slezi” (St. Petersburg). Clip got to the rotation of A1 and O2tv channels. At the beginning were combined presentations of the clip of IneXist and Slezi, after that the bands had joint month tour in Russia.


2008 year.
2nd of March the band played before Sweden band SONIC SYNDECATE in Moscow club “Tochka” and got awesome reviews of the audience!
17th of March were held the shooting of new clip to the “Earth” song under the guidance of Ivan Egorov (Have fun visuals) for the new album.
18th of March appeared new long-expected album “Towards the Dream” at Moscow lable Mazzar
15th and 16th of April the band played before Sweden band Arch Enemy in Moscow (Gorbunov palace) and in St. Petersburg (Port club), got perfect reviews of the Sweden and audience as well!

After the concert the band parted with bassist Alexander “Borya” Ruchkin. His place took  young, technically skilled and ambitious musician Artem Boronenkov. In such staff the band recorded new mini-album “2000 km” with bonus clip to the song “Earth”. The recording took place at the own studio «No limits studio». After the EP appearance the band had 2 week tour to Central and South Russia. But rearrangement in the staff continued. This time band separated the drummer Anton “Tepesh” Khomenko.  His place took young, technically skilled and ambitious Anton Nikitin.

In such staff in July 2008 INEXIST starts creating new material.

INEXIST is starting to record new album titled "SATAN'S WORK" in March 2009. Drums,bass and guitars will be recorded at Moscow studio "DREAMPORT" under the direction of Maxim Samosvat, who worked with the band under the previous album "relax and feel free".
Mr.Bredis,the singer and the leader of the band, said: "Since July 2008 we've been writting the material for this album. We've admitted "new blood" to the band: bassist and drummer, who made new songs more qualified,faster and dynamic. the New album won't look like everything we did before: there won't be any "pop", alternative and other fashionable shit! It will be true modern melodic death metal!"
It is planned to realise the album in autumn 2009.the Band is searching now for the label.

To be continued…  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inexist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.