The band Infamous Glory started in 1999 in Sao Paulo - Brazil. At that time, the band’s line up was: Kexo (Guitars, Vocals), Sarjento (Guitars), Pedro (Bass) and Frank (Drums). In 2000 the first demo was released. Entitled “S.T.F.A.R.O.B.M.”, showed a pretty Raw Death Metal, based on bands like early Deicide, Benediction, Dismember and other bands in the same vein

In the beginning of 2003, the band entered the studio for another demo. ” Massacre Celebration” followed the same sound direction of their previous release, still sounding like an Old School Death Metal, but quite mature and cohesive, counting with the force of the new drummer, G.Piza. Still in 2003 the band changed it’s line-up again; Sarjento left the band, giving place to J.C. and later, Pedro left the band too, giving place to Leandro D.

With the new and stabilized line-up, the band started to compose new songs, and and it was clear that they went into a great evolution, if compared with the old songs. The influences of each member were placed in all the songs and throughout the writing process, which made the band’s sound more varied and original.

In 2005 the band recorded the debut album. Four years later, due to various reasons, the band decided not to relese a full length, but an EP entitled ” Order of Doom”. During these 4 years, lots of gigs were made to promote the new material, including opening acts for bands like Dismember, Master, Vomit For Breakfest, Isacaarum, ROT and many others.

In 2009 the band entered into the studio again, to record a new material. The influences of the Swedish Old School Death Metal were consolidated in the EP “Will To Dismember”, bringing back the sound of the scandinavian Death Metal from the beginning of the 90’s. At the end of the same year, J.C. had to leave the band, due to personal reasons, giving place to Augusto on the 6 strings.

In 2010, the first Infamous Glory album was released. Entitled “Deathstrike Revenge” . The album has two EPs: ” Will To Dismember” and “Order Of Doom” (Which was already released virtually at the band’s website) and one exclusive track for the CD version.

With the new lineup, the band enters the studio again to record new songs for the album Burial Breed (split with the band The Black Coffins), released in October 2011.

2012 was a year with many gigs to publicize the latest split. At the end of the year, the band entered the studio to record the second album. "Bloodfeast" was released in October of 2013

Infamous Glory 2014:
Kexo – Guitars / Vocals
Leandro D. – Bass/Vocals
Augusto – Guitars
G.Piza – Drums

BEHOLD THE GLORY OF INFAMOUS DEATH METAL!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infamous+Glory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.