There are multiple artists called Infection.

1) Deathcore band from Japan
MEMBER 
Seijiro (Gt) / Takuso (Ba) / Ryo (Vo) / Kazma (Dr) / Yasushi Yasushi (Gt)

All members in 1990 (1990) was born.
RYO (Vo) was born in Tottori Prefecture. Other members from Tokyo.
The end of high school two years, formed in 2008.
After a member change and then a current member organization in the fall of 2009.
Broad band is influenced by factors such as Punk and lyrical riffs and melodic core and while the metal core to the spindle.

The first two songs sound February 2010 (1st EP "REFRAIN") released.
2 / 19 record release party held on the mobilization of more than 150 people.
For the next new album since December 2010
Hiro in his studio prisoner (METAL SAFARI) and start recording.
Freebies single preceding February 2011 "Letters" Hazime Hiraku distribution.

Official Site : http://infection.weblog.to/
MySpace : http://www.myspace.com/infectionmetalcore
Twitter : https://twitter.com/infection_JPN

2) Infection is a Peruvian death metal band with influences from the thrash and deathgrind scene. To the date the group has released a six-song EP (“Nothing but Scum”) and a full-length album (“Necrokindergarden”). Since their formation, their passion for making music has not declined. On the contrary, they keep the flame of metal alive and expect to consistently deliver brutal music to the world.

The band started in 2006 when guitar player Antonio Palacios decided to partner up with vocalist Giuliano Canessa. Both shared the same interest in bringing back the rawness of early death metal. Inspired by such acts as Death, Cannibal Corpse, and Monstrosity, they started composing and rehearsing their own songs. ‘It was the perfect time to brought that vicious sound back,’ stated Antonio. ‘I always wanted to be in a group that played this kind of music,” added Giuliano, pointing to a pile of discs in a shelf where one can distinguish “Spiritual Healing,” “Butchered at Birth,” and “Imperial Doom.” 

Drummer Yesid Aranda, whose musical taste was oriented towards thrash and black metal, joined them afterwards. ‘His playing style was precise: relentless blast beats and non-stop double bass drumming was what we were looking for,’ conceded Antonio. With the addition of bass player Yuri Cazal, the band’s sound thickened and they started performing on several venues in Lima, the capital city of Peru. They could have not anticipated the good reception and comments in each concert.

On 2009, their self-released album “Necrokindergarden” saw the light. This album included thirteen tracks of straightforward death metal plus a cover song of Monstrosity’s “Definite Inquisition.” Positive reviews and support were not only well received from the local scene, but also from foreign media.  “I Choke,” one of the songs included in that production, was for instance included in the “Global Apocalypse” compilation done by British magazine “Metal Hammer.” Copies of the album were sent to magazines and blogs around the world. Reviewers noted the take-no-prisoner attitude of the music and the natural vibe of the production. ‘Peruvian death metallers Infection sent an earthquake rippling across the Andes and destroyed the lost city of the Incas in style’ wrote Rhys Stevenson, former collaborator of “Terrorizer” online magazine. ‘Infection have a major boost in the fact that they have a thick, organic sound; lacking the cold sterility of many modern death bands’ was a fragment of the review appeared on the “Spirit of Metal” French e-zine. Although flattered by these kind comments, the band continued working hard, playing live, and composing new tunes.

“Acrotomophile Mutilator,” is the title of the new Infection’s CD, which will be released on July 1st 2014. Without departing from their roots, the band has incorporated a scoop of melodic and technical elements that will shine thanks to a crisp yet organic production. Mastered at “Massive Mastering” by John Scrip (responsible of mastering Suffocation’s “Blood Oath”), it contains the right elements to grab the attention of the headbangers around the world! ‘I am confident that this time we did a better job in general. We took our time to compose and rehearse the new songs. We worked with better equipment in the studio and spend some time with the mixes before sending them to the mastering facility. We can’t wait to present our album to the fans and public in general,’ concluded vocalist Giuliano.

Website:
www.infectionmetal.com

Facebook:
http://facebook.com/infectionmetal

Twitter:
http://twitter.com/infectionmetal

Soundcloud:
http://www.soundcloud.com/infectionmetal

3) A hardcore punk band from Adelaide.

4) A crust/powerviolence band from Halifax, NS.

5) Infection is a Hardrock/Gothic band from Germany.
Infection was founded in October 2006, Hamburg, Germany by Emal (Dr.), Mensur (Ba.) and Juled (Gt.) Tuemay (Vo.)
Infection relies on visual images and entertainment on the stage to fall off from the others. Their music sounds like a mixture from Hardrock/Metal and Gothic, having many influences from east and west music culture. Furthermore, the band members are all from different cultures themselves. Their songs are in English, containing topics like "dreamworlds, emotional states and feelings".
Infection played in Hamburg on locations like “Markthalle“, “KNUST”, “headCrash”, “LOGO” and “Trockendock”. They won the newcomer festival in Winsen 2008 and were third in the regional contest of SchoolJam.
On June, 2007, they finished their Demotape “Bloodrelation” with three Songs. They also appeared in the german kulturSpiegel magazine (September 2008, band 9).

Since March 2009 Eduardo Garcia and Rafaeal Ortega offered us a management contract with Ché-Music, which Infection accepted.
With the cooperation from producer Axel Mackenrott (Masterplan), Infection started to make a new demotape, including their new songs "ASHES TO DUST", "DEVOUR FROM INSIDE" and "42 CORES", finished June 2009.
For this time, Infection experienced a lot of new developments.

For now, they are working with new projects.

6) A Dark Ambient project from Bulgaria. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.