They have spent 5 years since Infernoise appeared into the world, showing that this quartet of Hellriders were going to give much of which to speak. 5 years was enough for that. This band of "thrash/hard rock" finally conquers the hearts of thousands of fans hungry of good metal and to recover that lost style from the 90's after the arrival of the new musical tendencies. Formed initially by members of bands known in the Spanish underground scene like Sway and one the most important bands in Spain and Latino America Angeles del Infierno. Infernoise has combed mile by mile all the country demonstrating its great musical skills, no matter if they have an audience of 10, 100 or 1000 people, giving it everything since they jump to the stage until they take leave from there, always taking contact with the people, singing and drinking beer with them to rate of good rock... but this it was not enough for them... at the beginning of 2003 decided to record its first maxi-single with one of the best producers in the spanish scene BigSimon, which it exorcised in CD way the internal demons that Infernoise takes with himself... the result was "Hellrider", maxi-single with 3 cuts (Hellrider, All my Rage and Ritual) that makes mainly vibrate each corner of this planet thanks to bigger mass media tool... internet...

After several months playing hard, Infernoise decides to present to the world its first album, reason why they decided to take a good producer to make it and that person was Mr. Timo Tolkki from Stratovarius, which accepts to record a band with a sound that is not resembled the type of music that has done during so many years.... Infernoise went to one of the most important capitals in the worl of metal, Helsinki (Finland), where they recorded and mixed with Tolkki in the Sonic Pump Studios (Amorphis, Thunderstone) later to mastering in Finnvox Studios (Children of Bodom, Nightwish) with Mika Jussila... the result was "The Chainsaw..s Law", possibly the most international work than a Spanish band has removed to the world ever.... 10 heartrendering songs with easy learning riffs incapable to remove from your mind once your have listened it...With the CD in their hands, Infernoise begins to search a company. The life on the road begins in Spain, sharing the stage with Type O Negative, and then crossing the ocean to play in another capital of rock, Los Angeles (California), after that they return to the old continent to play in Leipzig (Germany). After receiving many offers from a diferent discographic labels around Spain and Europe, Infernoise contacts with Locomotive Records and Peer Music, reaching an agreement with them and signing the first professional contract as an international band...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/infernoise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.