There are three bands called "INFERIS"

1) Death Metal band from Chile formed in 1998. 

They have released 2 demos (2002 and 2004), an EP (2009) and 2 full-lengths (2007 and 2013) so far.

2) A hardcore band from Buffalo, New York. In 2007 they changed their name to This Is An Empire.

3) Heavy/power metal band INFERIS from Chile. 

We have released a full length called "Between Heaven and Hell" and an ep called "we fight", we are working on a new conceptual full lenght that w'll tell about Arauco's war. We are looking for record labels who are interested in releasing our CD abroad. We are making a strong an powerfull metal...just listen "we fight!".

The history of Inferis Power metal band from Chile begins in 2000 at Viña del Mar, time when Joshua Van der stam and Herman Kovacs form a band called Black Cobra which later became Inferis.
In September of 2001 arrives the bass player Manuel Alarcón and after few weeks joins Felipe Contreras as a guitar player with which the line up was conformed by: Manuel Alarcón, bass and vocals, Joshua Van der Stam & Felipe Contreras on guitars and Herman Kovacs on drums.
With this line up Inferis begins to write a material called “metal angels”, work recorded, mixed and produced by themselves.
With the course of time the band recorded two songs which became their second demo, called “at the gates” during which the vocalist Javier Morán ( ex- epsilon) has joined as guess musician.
In 2003 Inferis begins the searching for a new frontman to record their first LP. Then a large seeking, Heinrich Liebsch (ipso facto) has joined the band.
In this way Inferís begins the practices to record the Lp called “Between Heaven and Hell ” that contain songs like Words In Time and L.D.I. During all that year Inferis played with bands like Fahrenheit, Alejandro Silva, Alquimia and Witchblade showing their work. at mid-year of 2006 Inferis shares stage with Six Magics in a show ...
The next two years Inferis goes trought many changes in their formation, but finally late in 2006 the new line up is solidified with the arrival of Cristian Gonzalez on drums, Gonzalo Medinelli and Rafael Araya on Guitars, and a new Frontman, (because of leave of Heinrich liebsch by personal situations), Oliver García ( Velattore) , actually the only one at the original line up is Manuel Alarcón on bass. 
Actually Inferis with this strong and new line up prepares a New work, a EP called “We Fight!” Which contains four tracks and it will be and advance of a new full lenght that the band have in proyect. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inferis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.