There are nine artists with the name ‘Infernal’: 

1. A Danish dance/pop duo. They first met in 1991 through mutual friends and formed a band in 1997, with Søren Haarh leaving the group in 2000. The duo now consists of Paw Lagerman (born 1977) and Lina Rafn (born 1976), both from Copenhagen, Denmark. 
So far, they have released 4 studio albums and a remix album. But it was only recently with the release of their third album ‘From Paris to Berlin’ that they received international success. Despite hailing from Denmark, shortly before the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany they released a song playing on the title of their popular dance hit, ‘From Paris to Berlin’, changing the title to ‘From London to Berlin’, which was in support of the England national football team.

2. Swedish Black Metal band Formed by David Parland a.k.a. Blackmoon in 1996 (the year he left Dark Funeral).

The band was on-hold from 2003 to mid 2008. Infernal was a one man band when Parland died in 2013, therefore ending the group. 

Not to be confused with the Infernal from Kristianstad.

3. Columbian Black Metal band formed in early 90's that relocated to Spain. They have released 3 full-lenghts, 3 splits(with Exelsus Diaboli, Ereshkigal & Infernal Kingdom and with Thy Antichrist , 1 EP, 1 demo and one compilation wich gathers first two albums to one CD

4. There is also a Infernal (death/thrash metal) from Curitiba, Brazil. In 1986, Paulo (vocalist), Marcelo dos Anjos (guitarist), Danilo (guitarist), Covero (bass) and Jonas (drummer), make a band.

5. A German combo featuring Lukas Pitz (lead g.), Moritz Nixdorf (dr.), André Klocke (rhy. g.) and Dominik Gutt (voc.). Their music is mainly influenced by metal acts such as Pantera or Children Of Bodom.

6. Infernal is also a New Orleans based Thrash Metal/Metalcore band that was formerly called Infernal Aggression.

7. A death metal side project by Nasty Savage frontman Nasty Ronnie started in 1995.

8.  Black Metal act from Sarpsborg, Norway that is now defunct. Formed from the ashes of Baalberith (Nor), Infernal(Nor) came into being early 1997. The band recorded three demos (of which the second one was re-released on a split-album with other local bands), before calling it quits somewhere in 2000/2001.

9. Sri Lankan Thrash/Speed Metal band from Kandy. Started out in 2009 the band released their EP Downcast in 2011 and continues to play in the local metal circuit.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infernal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.