http://www.inferiustorment.com/
http://www.myspace.com/inferiustorment


Inferius Torment's dominant theme is contempt toward religion. More specifically, they stand opposed to blind dogmatism and the spiritual/mental enslavement left in its wake. They believe that by exterminating the human belief in "divine origins" and perverting religious dogmas, we can initiate a sequential transformation from brighter (or more positive)   philosophies to more destructive ideas.

Through our own inner perception, we gain a better sense of our enemies. We reach forth and overcome their imposed facets, thus beginning a path that will shift the balance between rival ideologies and support our belief in mankind's darker origins. We seek to rid the world of positive energy, and set a course for self-development/self-destruction.

Accordingly, our lyrics speak of darkness, which validates us as we compose our   hymns of power and opposition. We view Satanism as the anti-divine form of a dark reality. It stands in opposition to God, and enlightens its devotees. It empowers us in our struggle against the sheep-like ways of human scum. 

We believe the Spirit dominates flesh, and this is our chosen form of existence. Through expression of a Satanic Will through the prism of Darkness' hypostases. Self-development is a ruling formula for our Satanic ideals. It is a thorn in the side of a dying God.

The practice of Sorcery is another step toward opening entering the pantheon. Through it, we gain awareness of everyday tyranny.

This is the path toward Devil worship.

Our interaction with The Dark strengthens the threads of our ideology. Through it, we descend and dwell among the lowest forms our dark origins.

Musical forms are a tool for invoking the Devil's essence, thus creating intelligent vibrations that move outward from within. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inferius+Torment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.