There are mutliple artists with this name:

1) Infest is an American hardcore punk band, formed in 1986 by Joe Denunzio, Matt Domino, Dave Ring and Chris Clift. They are considered pioneers of the sound now known as "powerviolence." The term was coined by their guitarist Matt Domino, who first used it to describe his other band, Neanderthal with Eric Wood of Man is the Bastard. Joe Denunzio’s vocals exhibited raw anger, with lyrical content about conformity, war, scene politics and socio-political issues. The band's album covers contained imagery of a political nature, depicting the reality of war and poverty. The group broke up in 1996, having played only a handful of shows within California.

On July 1, 1991, Infest recorded a live set for the Los Angeles radio station KXLU. This session was later released by Deep Six Records, who also released the No Man's Slave LP in 2002. Instrumentals for the record were recorded during the summer of 1995 and vocals were recorded post-breakup in 2000.

On 2013, Infest played their first show since their initial breakup at The Echo, in Echo Park, California with bands such as ACxDC, Barking Backwards, Fissure and Sordo. They were among the headliners at the 2013 editions of Maryland Deathfest and Chaos in Tejas respectively. In July 2013 Infest headlined the Destroy L.A. Hardcore Festival with Chain of Strength. In July 2014, they headlined a one-off show in Dallas, Texas at Vice Palace, along with Chicago-based Weekend Nachos. The band has been performing frequently ever since, making their European debut at Netherlands Deathfest 2016.

2) Infest are a Serbian deathrash metal band. They have released their debut full length album Anger Will Remain in 2006. After a few line up changes they released new album called Onward to destroy in 2009. On this album they have two guest vocals.One is Aad Kloosterwaard from Sinister and he appeared on song called "Screaming From Within", and the other is Glad from Serbian black metal band May Result on "Krstu Je Kraj", the only Infest song recorded in Serbian language. Also one song on new album is written by songwriter of Vader, Harry Maat, called "A Sickness Named Religion". More information at their official MySpace page.

3) Infest is a deathgrind band from Spain.

4) Infest is a french group from Pia. That play brutal death Metal. They Formed in 1989 inthe height of the death metal scene and quickly disapeared with a mere climpse at their terror on one sole demo.

5) Infest is a french asset from Bayonne. Forming in 2003, Infest play very hard thought death Metal and grindcore style. With lyrical content being mostly about satan, gor and death. The band has released their first full length album 'Feel the Rage' in 2007 under the label Deadsun/Hurricane Entertainment.

6) Infest is a french band from Nord-Pas-De-Calais. Forming in 1990, releasing a couple demos and having success in their area, before disapearing. Maybe changing their name.

7) Infest was a one man and guest band from Poland, Boleslawiec. Which played Thrash Metal and Death Metal. They split up around 1995.

8) Infest is a new hc/punk band from Poland. Official Myspace

9) Infest Infest is also the name of a dutch leftfield drum 'n bass producer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.