Was form in 1991 by two young Jedis, Lan Bear and Lan Bye. We were known as ABCDEAD(Anarchy Brings ChaosDEAD) back then.The line-up was Kochix on vocal, Wan Ermie of Cyber Werks on guitars and K-Roll on bass. 

Later on, Kochix left the band due to his personal problem. Fathul joined and later ABC Dead was know as Infectious Maggots. By then.. Maggots played music which were influences more to SOD,MOD kind of style. After Wan left Maggots, we became a four piece band but still managed to play on. Then we released our first demo 'Life Among The Ruins' which were recorded at Amerah Studio using a four track recorder. Later on, K-ROLL left the band to further his studies.

In 1992, Maggots signed up with Sonic Asylum Record. and managed to produced our debut album called 'Deep Within Our Grief Factory, Milk Runs Red'. As(Silent Death) and Jijoe(De Flowered) joined Maggots but only for a short period, then came in Riza and Rizal(the twins) as a permanent replacement. 

 

In 1995, we released our second album titled Unknown. Ezan took Fathuls place and Wira(Necrotic Chaos) took Lan Byes place as drummer. At that time, Maggots were doing fine until one of it's band member Lan Bear was involved with drugs and as a result the band lost it's touch and direction. After Lan Bear came out from the rehabilitation centre as a new man, he was given a chance to rejoin the group as the first guitar. 

Now... 2006, with the new line-up, Riza(Second Guitar) Rizal(Bass), Lan Bear, EIan Han(Drummer) Man(Vocals) are making a positive come back with new tracks and style for their fans who are still supportting them now.

LATEST NEWS 
-None-

UPDATE NEWS 
For any gig you may contact MAN the no stated below or mail to us maggots_tune@yahoo.com..

THE CURRENT LINE UP, 2006 :

THROAT : MAN
GTR : BEAR
GTR : RIZA
BASS : RIZAL
DRUM : EIAN <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infectious+Maggots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.