Infernal Reign are a 5-piece metal band from Sydney’s West. We try to steer clear of anything or anyone that may sound familiar. With five similar, yet in some ways diverse musical backgrounds, and a very passionate love for making music, Infernal Reign are here to broaden the horizons of today's metal.

Founded in mid-2007, by guitarist Chris Burke and drummer Josh Smith, the two decided to start having weekly jam sessions in Josh's living room. Shortly after, guitarist Joey Scott came into the equation, and so began talks of forming an composing as a band.

After trailing a few of the local muso's in hope to find a vocalist, they found they had more hope of finding a second guitarist rather than a vocalist. So Joey undertook the duties as the bands vocalist. The hunt for a second guitarist and bassist was on.

A few months later, Josh O'Sullivan, a good friend of the band members and an amazing bassist of over 9 years, left his band Alexandranova. Both the band and Josh jumped at the opportunity to have him as the new bassist of the band. The band started to compose, but was still missing 2 pieces of the puzzle, a band name, and a second guitarist.

After much debate and dozens of ideas being thrown around, the 4 decided to go under the name, Infernal Reign. A few months down the track, the band wrote 3 songs as a 4-piece. Hallowed Grounds, Bloody Murder and Djinn. The band also had their first gig at The Warehouse Showroom in Rydalmere on October 27th, 2007 along side other local acts. After a taste of the business side of having a band, they sought a more defined, heavier sound.

After scouting for some talent, Infernal Reign held a trial for a second guitarist with high hopes to complete their line-up and sound. After 3 trials, and much debate, the band found their second guitarist, Ryan Bugden. With his strong passion for music and guitar, Infernal Reign was finally a complete 5-piece metal band. A few months later, the band had their first show with the new line-up at Hylands Youth Centre, Greystanes on March 28th, 2008.

Eventually, Infernal Reign were contacted and offered some recording time. This produced what you are listening to now. Released in June-July 2008, The Infernal Reign 2008 Demo, Realm Of Moloch.

Shortly after, Infernal Reign played a couple of local gigs, as well as in the city. Playing alongside some great bands, and great friends, Infernal Reign are currently hunting more gigs and are breaking into the local scene. So help us raise hell! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infernal+Reign">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.