There are more than one band named Inferior. 

1) A Swedish thrashmetal band from Karlstad. www.myspace.com/inferiorswe
Discography:
Religious Disease (2007)
Seeds of Death (2008)
Completing the Prophecy (2009)

2) Formed in 2004,  INFERIOR is a Finnish heavy-metal band that draws its influences from both classic metal bands such as Metallica and Slayer, as well as from newer artists like Lamb Of God and Opeth.

The story of Inferior began in high school music classes. Band's first line up consisted of Olli, Tapio and Mika Hallami who was the band's first drummer. After a couple of weeks Pasi, who was also studying in the same school, was recruited too. At that time the band lacked a bass player, so Olli decided to take over that position until they'd find somebody else to take the job. The band started practicing (learning covers, mostly from metallica) first in the schools music class and later in the basement of Olli's fathers house.

In the summer of 2004 the band came across some problems with the chemistry between Mika and the rest of the band. So together they decided that Mika after all wasn't the right man for the job.

Soon after the ways separated, the band found a new drummer, Panu, a friend of Pasi's. Through Panu the band also got a new, better-quality rehearsal place. Song ideas started to pop out, but the band was still mainly going with the covers.
April 2005, Inferior played their first gig. Second gig in autumn at a local alternative music festival. Last gig of 2005 in december, The Ultrabrutaltotalmetalchristmas festival, with Clamath and SinKing.

February 2006 the band decided that Olli should give up playing the bass, so that his inner frontman could roam free on stage. The new bass player was luckily found really fast, as our friend Mikko, who also plays drums in Clamath, wanted to take the job. Band spent the next few months writing new songs and rehearsing with their new bass player. After that they headed out for gigs, playing also their first open air festival gig in ..myrock.

First, self-titled demo-cd was recorded in the summer, at Fantom studios in Tampere, Finland. The aims are set higher as the time passes, and the goal is to leave a mark and get recognition, but the main thing is to have great fun and make great music.

3) A Swedish thrashmetal band from Karlstad.  www.myspace.com/inferiorswe <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inferior">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.