Infected Brain are located in Borne, a small town south of Magdeburg, Germany. We play brutal Death Metal including everything from slow groovy parts to high speed blast beats. The blast and up-tempo parts make up most of our music, but we always try to keep it interesting and most important: mosh-able. After all, we want to have fun playing this stuff, and we want the people to enjoy themselves while listening to us.

The band members are:

Vocals: Torsten Schmidt Guitar: Enrico Drachau Guitar: Hannes Bärmann Bass: Wolfram Fenske Drums: Carsten Fenske

We have played live gigs together with: Manos, Vulgar Degenerate, Gorezone, Requiem, Gomorrha, Fleshless, Purulent, Bombthreat, Recapture, Lycantroph, Inmost Dense, Himmelfahtskommando (HFK), Trailz O.D., Sanitys Dawn, Harmony Dies, Fearer, Cunt Grinder, Uppercut, Defloration, Insision and others. We’ve also played at some festivals, including shows in Czechia and Slovakia. On of the finest moments in our live career was reaching the quarterfinals of the “Local Heroes” competition in 2002.
Our band history starts in 1993. The band was called Braindead back then, and 2 demo tapes were recorded. In 1998 guitar player David quit, and the band dissolved.
About one year later, bass player Enrico re-founded the band, but this time taking over the guitar. Drums (Andreas) and vocals (Torsten) remained unchanged, a new bass player (Erik) was found, and the band was called INFECTED BRAIN.
In May 2000 they recorded an MCD entitled “Hate One”, and a few months later second guitarist Hannes joined the band. This line-up was quite stable for a while, but in 2004 drummer Andreas quit because of musical differences. He was immediately replaced by our current drummer Carsten, but shortly after that bass player Erik quit, too, and so we are looking for a new bass player at the moment.
Our new album includes 12 songs and clocks in at about 40 minutes. It was recorded in our rehearsal room and mixed by our drummer’s brother Wolf. Many of the songs were written about 5 years ago, some even earlier – we just never managed to put them on a CD before. Now that this material is finally recorded, we’re very pleased with the result, but of course our music has changed a little in the meantime. The new stuff is definitely faster than what we’ve done before, but there’ll be some other new elements as well. Song-writing for the next album is about finished, and we’ve already started recording again, so it shouldn’t take that long this time! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infected+Brain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.