Infested Mind started as a project with Head early 2004. Just writing down some ideas and trying to create the sound that was in his head. He set out to find the right musicians for this band, but had no luck in Qatar. 2005, Head moved to Amman, Jordan for uni and continued to search for musicians. Late 2005 Andy appeared, who started as a vocalist/ guitarist, while Head was on drums. One song was written and recorded, "Silent Confession", under no album. 

Late 2005/ Early 2006, Tamer (on vocals), Sahel (on bass) and George (on lead guitar) joined Infested Mind completing the bands line up. The first demo album, "Trying to Breathe", three songs were recorded: "My Lie", "Deafening Silence" and "Nothing Left" under the album. The Demo was still under construction when the newly found band members started to part and head their seprate ways. 

This is when Infested Mind took a break for few months. 
Early 2006 Head met up with a guitarist, Djinn, who had the same musical idea and aims as Head. Sessions were set up where Head and Djinn Jammed and came to realise that the sound they created was one which they both enjoyed. Mid-2006 Djinn was an offical member of Infested Mind playing guitars, bass and vocals making it a two man band. Head and Djinn started writing and working on the music straight away. 

Late 2006, Infested Mind finished recording their first track, "Internal Bleeding". In Xmas 2006, Infested Mind took a trip to Doha, Qatar to play a show with Asgard Legionnaires and also met the bands "That Guy", who helps out the band whenever they need it! 

January 2007, Infested Mind was back in Jordan, and continued writing and recording songs. Early March 2007 Infested Mind finished their demo album titled "Soaked in Blood", 6 tracks including their cover of Bathoy's "Nordland". 
End of March 2007, the CDs were printed and sold in Jordan and Qatar.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infested+Mind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.