Praised by local press as "pure Hard'n'Heavy*" and "most hopeful in newcomer in Germany**", the German band InfiNight have already gathered a faithful and constantly growing fan community with their so-called modern Power-Thrash metal.

Music

The music of InfiNight gains itâs modern touch from the downtuned guitars, supported by powerful double-bass drumming and overall mostly thrash-oriented rhythms. Unique trademarks are set by the complex vocal arrangements, often concerted for several voices. On stage InfiNight convince by untiring energy and enthusiasm, always incorporating their audience. The band's intensive performance and the close contact to their audience make each InfiNight concert an impressing experience, which won't be easily forgotten. Today, InfiNight's live-program spans more than two hours and combines mainly powerful Power- and Thrash Metal songs. In addition, expressive, more ballad-like compositions provide some variety. The band doesn't want commit itself to a certain, limited music direction, instead they try to mix the well-known ingredients to develop their own, unique style. Still, there are some parallels to bands such as Metallica, Nevermore, Iced Earth or Brainstorm which are also confirmed by many Reviews.

History

InfiNight was created in spring 2001 by singer Martin Klein, guitarist Marco Grewenig, and bassist Kai Schmidt. After some time as a three-piece, guitarist Dominique Raber and drummer Hendrik Reimann joined the band. With this cast InfiNight started to play cover-versions of well-known songs as for example "Master of Puppets" by Metallica. However, after only a few rehearsals, InfiNight decided to further concentrate on writing own songs.

2002 InfiNight had their first big concert in front of about 1000 guests, playing on the "Impression musicale" in Illingen.

2003 saw further appearances in and around the region's capital Saarbruecken, on several city festivals in the Saarland and finally as support for the German Melodic-Metal band "Freedom Call" at the Neunkircher city festival, in front of over 1300 visitors. They also recorded their first demo CD "Demo-Lition" in 2003.

In February 2004 the first full-lenght album "Sea of Knowledge" which contains nine songs and has almost one hour playing time, followed. Recording and mixing took only two weeks at the SU2-Studios in Sulzbach, in co-operation with producer Phil Hillen. Apart from that, InfiNight mainly concentrated on composing new songs in 2004. However, besides a few concerts, they also managed to win a fifth place out of more than 250 bands in the "Apllo Music Competition" in the same year.

In 2005 InfiNight finally published their long expected CD "Sea of Knowledge". Shortly thereafter, the CD's opener "The Swarm" was also published on the "Saar Sound Demo Sampler 2005". In this year the band played some larger concerts as well as some gigs outside the Saarland. InfiNight shared the stage with the German Pagan Metal band "Adorned Brood" and the German/Romanian Metal band "Power Wolf", as well as with the Swedish Heavy Power Metal band "Nocturnal Rites". Also in this year, InfiNight wins the Newcomer Band Award of Connys-Radioshow (Radioprojekt 2005, Leverkusen). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infinight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.