Infierno is an Argentinian Black metal band from San Salvador de Jujuy Formed in 1989.
They are know for being one of the first black metal bands in Argentina.
Band was split-up but recently reformed.

Discography:

1995 - Invocando al Diablo (Demo)
2001 - Quemate Jesus (Demo) 
2007 - El Llamado del Diablo (EP)

There are also other bands with this name:

Hailing from Brazil and formed in 1998, Infierno featured Andre Moraes (guitars), Denner Campolina (bass), Henrique Zumpichiatti (vocals) and Alex Fonseca (drums), Infierno's music was a mix between contemporary metal and tribal world-music, drawing comparisons with the likes of Sepultura, Soulfly, Ill Niño and Puya. 

The band released their self-titled album in 1999, featuring a guest appearance from Sepultura's Andreas Kisser on the track, '7'. During this time, Moraes collaborated again with Sepultura guitarist Kisser along with bandmate Igor Cavalera on the Brazilian soundtrack, No Coração Dos Deuses ('In the Heart of the Gods') including an exclusive song from Infierno themselves, the tribal-influenced 'Martírios' and a guest appearance from Mike Patton.

After touring Brazil for the following few years and gaining opening slots on the Against and Nation tours for close-friends Sepultura, in 2003 the band parted ways with singer Henrique Zumpichiatti and developed a new electronic-driven sound with Moraes now on vocals. Two new Infierno albums were planned for 2006, one of original material entitled 'I'm a Shadow In Your Way', the other of covers (primarily 1980s pop and rock songs) called 'Cum On Feel The Noize'. However neither ever emerged; the band having been put on hiatus whilst Moraes has further concentrated on soundtrack-composition ('Lisbela E O Prisionero'), production work (Sepultura's Dante XXI) and film-directing ('Ópera do Mallandro', Sepultura's video for We've Lost You!). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infierno">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.