There is more than one artist by the name of Infidel.

1. The band was formed in Athens, Greece as a means for common musical expression by Manos Giakoumakis (drums), Yiannis Poussios (vocals) and Chris Kissadjekian (bass guitar) in the summer of 2000, under the name of Womb. Having jammed with various guitarists over a period of two years, they finally found Dennis Kostopoulos to fill the boots of the six string abuser in the fall of 2002, and changed the band’s name to Infidel.

After a series of rehearsing jams and the resulting serious hangovers, they hit the stage for the first time on May 20 2004, to present their material in a free secret gig they put on for a “friends-and-family” audience of 450 people. Then came a show supporting Alabama Thunderpussy in Athens (October 5, 2004), and right after that the band entered Fragile Sound Studio with producer Vangelis Yalamas for a “cool-pace” recording session which ended in July 2005, and resulted not in a demo or a promo CD, but in a 10-track, 47-minute full-length album. In September 24, 2005 they supported Orange Goblin and in March 19, 2006 they opened for Grand Magus. Right after that, the band signed to EMI Greece for the release of their debut album entitled “I, Oathbreaker”.

The purpose of Infidel is to deliver good quality heavy-as-fuck music and having a good time while doing so. Influences range from Black Sabbath, Candlemass, Metallica and Trouble to Thin Lizzy, Grand Funk, Voivod and… Bolt Thrower! The members of the band focus on playing from their heart and soul, and pay no attention in any musical limitations.

2. Infidel was a short-lived band from the tri-state area originally known as Rebel Alliance. The band featured members of several disbanded area bands including Tom (guitars) from You and I and The Assistant, Jake (guitars) from Dreams forever Drowning, Vanessa (drums) from The Wage of Sin and Matt (vocals) from For All It's Worth. They played heavy and metallic hardcore with positive and thought-provoking lyrics. The band has released two versions of a four-song demo, one as three-piece without Tom and another version with dual guitars when Tom joined the band. The band then recorded an eight-song full length album which was announced for release on the large underground hardcore label Magic Bullet Records. Unfortunately, the band disbanded before the release could see the light of day. However, the band shared the recording with the friends and fans immediately after finishing it and eventually uploaded it to a website with all of the lyrics after disbanding. The website has since been taken down.
 
3. Anti-islamic death metal band from USA. http://www.myspace.com/infideldeathmetal

4. Metalcore/beatdown metal band from Japan- http://www.myspace.com/infideltyo3

5. Doom/Sludge influenced Hardcore band from Texas, US http://www.myspace.com/infideltx

6. Black Metal from Poland http://www.myspace.com/chaosbloodblasphemy http://www.infidel.pl/

7. Metalcore band from Changsha, China: http://www.rockinchina.com/w/Infidel

8. Death metal band from Singapore. Members also played in Impiety and Libation.

9. A Goth band from Vancouver. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infidel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.