There are several artists under the name Infra:

1. Bass music producer / sound designer / DJ from Berlin.
2. Progressive / Psychedelic rock from Sweden.
2. Black/Death metal band from Portugal.
3. Black metal from Mexico.

1. INFRA is a bass music producer, sound designer, DJ and promoter living in Berlin.

His tracks consist of solid pumping halfstep rhythms, brought to life by analog drums morphing into synthetic impulses and hypnotizing synth coloured atmospheres, that resonate in your head long after you hear them. With a background as a drummer for more than eight years, it is only natural that INFRA's beats have a very high resolution in depth and therefore feature a lot of details and density to create thrilling sensations.

INFRA's versatility in production provides both a lot of space for atmospheres and detail for mental explorations and relaxation, as well as severe and fearsome bass assaults filling the room with tension. His basses are more than just simple sine waves, but dreadfully tweaked and twisted pulses, built for maximum pressure, which form the foundation of his monstrous basslines. His style is mainly influenced by techstep, dubstep, drumfunk and neurofunk, which in his belief is the most advanced engineered music available.

With Berlin based Dubmarine and as a co-founder of the weekly rolling Impulse, INFRA stages events in a dubstep context, which are boundary pushing and style defining due to their carefully chosen line-ups. Besides his Impulse residency at ://about blank he holds a residency at the Shadowdub nights at Subland and since December 2012 also hosts the monthly Impulse radio show on BLN.FM.

INFRA's tracks have seen releases on F4TMusic, ]Shadowforces, Phantom Hertz and Highscore Publishing and gained DJ support from BunZer0, Crises, DFRNT, DJ Foster, Forensics, Greg G, Kion, Von D and more <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.