1) A Swedish grindcore band. Released their debut EP in May 2013.

2) Formed in 2001, Infraction is a 5-piece alternative rock band based out of Hanover, PA. The members of Infraction met while attending Delone Catholic High School in Hanover, PA. Founding members Nathaniel Sauers (lead vocals and guitar) and Charles Bologna (bass guitar) met when both were 14 years old, and formed a band named Carbon 14 with two other friends. Carbon 14 played mostly covers of 90s alternative rock, with a few originals mixed in.

In mid-2001, Carbon 14 parted ways with their drummer and guitarist. Another fellow classmate of Sauers and Bologna, Gianni Antonaccio, stepped in to play guitar and sing backup vocals. Antonaccio had a friend from a nearby high school, Victor Konsavage, who would join the band to play drums. With a fresh new lineup, the band renamed themselves Infraction 28 after a performance during school lunch hours resulted in detention for several members of the band. The school handbook's conduct code for cutting class was called an “Infraction 28”. Corny but catchy.

Armed with a wide variety of alternative hits from the 90s and 00s, and some well selected classic rock covers in addition to an increased number of original tunes, Infraction 28 was ready to take the Hanover area by storm. Over the next two years, the band played shows at various small venues in the York/Adams County, PA and Carroll County, MD areas. They had built a solid fanbase for a high school band, and competed well in several local Battle of the Bands. The band also recorded a 5 song demo of all original music in late 2001.

Eager to give their sound another dimension, Infraction 28 added a fifth member in late 2002. That member was another fellow classmate, Jeb Mahone, who originally stepped in to play keyboards and sing backup vocals, but has since proved to be a multi-instrumentalist, also playing guitar and harmonica. As a five-piece, the band was now more confident in their sound than ever, and began playing shows more frequently. But with the local music scene being almost non-existent and high school graduation drawing near, Infraction 28 were left with few options for the future. In June 2003, shortly after graduation for 4 of the 5 members, Infraction 28 mutually decided to take a break.

In the nearly three years that followed, while attending various colleges, members of the band stayed musically active, but ventured in different directions. Sauers and Mahone formed a band with a relative of Sauers' and a female lead singer, and played a string of acoustic shows. Meanwhile, Antonaccio, Bologna, and Konsavage joined forces with a York based singer/songwriter, and even played a show at Nation Nightclub in Washington, DC under the name Infraction 28. But all five of the former bandmates would agree that the chemistry was just not the same in these 'side projects'.

Finally, in April of 2006, the five friends decided to give the band another shot. Having had some time away to play with other people and expand their musical tastes and abilities, it felt like it was the right time to reunite. The band decided to drop the juvenile number trend from their name, and carry on just as Infraction. They added a new selection of covers to their repertoire, and wrote all new original material to blend in with a few of their older originals.

CURRENTLY: Infraction played a string of shows in the summer of 2006, and also recorded a three song demo that you can hear right on this very page. After taking a brief break for school (and even sneaking in some great shows throughout the fall/winter), we are finishing up on recording what will be our first full album, recorded and released independently by Infraction. Look for it sometime late this summer, and more details will be on the way! And be sure to catch us at your favorite bars and small clubs throughout the summer!

[2] Czech metal band from Třebíč. http://www.infraction.yc.cz/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infraction">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.