There is more than one band under the name Infuriate.

Infuriate was formed as Necropolis in 2001. All of the 6 original members knew each other from the local music scene where they were in different bands, but in 2001 they decided to form a new band.

In the first year they wrote a few songs, did some some shows and in 2002 they recorded their first demo called Necropolis.

After the demo they played a lot of shows and the longer they played, the more the sound and feel of the band changed from death/black metal and trash to a more balanced style where they try to blend the oldschool death/trash metal with a more progressive approach.

Because of this change in musical direction and because of the fact that the name Necropolis was already in use by a bunch of other bands they decided to change the name to Infuriate.

In 2006 Ron Classen, one of the vocalists decided to leave the band after 5 years .

Shortly thereafter they went into the studio and recorded their second demo, called Disconnected.

6 tracks were recorded, marking the new musical direction they have taken. On this demo Remco was challenged to take care of all the vocals since all songs theyre written for two vocalists.

Because of the great results on Remco's vocal recordings, they decided to continue as a five piece.

In December 2006, guitarist Alex and bassplayer Richard decided to leave the band, but after one year of absence, Richard decided to pick up his bass guitar again, and return to Infuriate.

As a four piece they started writing new songs and rehearse to perform live again and in december 2009 they entered THE PIT studio to record four new songs.

In 2010, after 3 years of absence, guitarist Alex Fogheri has rejoined Infuriate!


==

Infuriate is also a UK metal band from Colchester, Essex, formed in 2009, the band currently consists of Vocalist Matt Kite, Guitarists Andy Smith and James Kite and drummer Matt Pamment.  Currently the band are looking for a bassist, and have just released their EP (Infuriate EP). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Infuriate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.