This page is FOR all band/artists named "ing."   Please note that there are other bands named ing too - please add their information here.

1) Formerly known as Plaid Dragon, a five piece alternative-folk outfit from Springfield Missouri with a front line female vocalist. The bands plays a blend of folk, mod-folk, ambient and alternative sound. Ing is one of those catchy indie-pop music that get stuck in one’s head very easily. Their lyrics are as catchy as their music as well.

2) The San Francisco band "ing" was born as a duo in 1995 with Mark Smotroff and Sean Mylett who remain the core of the group to this day.  The full band EP Liberty (1999) showcased ing's rock & power pop sensibilities and captured its live energy -- Billboard called it "stellar" and "fresh and original."   Named "Best Local Rock Band" in the "Best of the Bay" Reader's Polls for the San Francisco Bay Guardian (2002), SF Weekly (2003) and San Francisco Magazine (2003).  Stagger & Belligerence (2003, Heyday Records) was heralded as "... brilliant -- proving the relevance and resilience of good ol' rock and roll."  (San Francisco Bay Guardian January 21, 2004). ing's Britpop-inspired "Better Don't Do" has been used on the national TV programs Smallville and Men in Trees. ing songs have been used in other movies and TV programs (even a video game!). ing got its first live performance "big break" in 2003 opening for guitar great Jonny Lang at the 1600 seat Mountain Winery in Saratoga, CA, and winning over the crowd.  

In 2007 the group put out a new single and video called "Dove" which can be found on YouTube (MP3 available on iTunes, CDBaby and other fine online shops).   The group has been working on many new recordings some of which they hope to release in 2008.  Main songwriter Mark Smotroff has also been putting finishing touches on a musical that will be released in 2008 featuring ing lead singer Sean Mylett as well as other friends in the ing universe.   

ing creates timeless original music across many borders, from Americana to 80s Britrock to vintage 60s lysergic garage psychedelia. From intimate coffeehouses to top clubs and festival stages, ing dances gleefully around and in the rock, pop and jam communities. 

For more information, visit www.ingdom.com or www.facebook.com/ingdom

Thanks for listening!

3) Is a classic rock pop three-piece from Japan. Official homepage: http://ing-hp.com/ Audioleaf: http://www.audioleaf.com/kosuda2569/

4)A thrash/death metal band from Cape Town, South Africa <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ing">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.