Ingurgitating Oblivion is a brutal death metal band from Germany. They formed in 1997 as Of Trees and Orchids playing melodic and complex Death/Doom/Gothic. However, a major line up took place within the camp with Karsten Schöning (vocals, ex-Gallery of Darkness and also in Fate, Deformed) and Florian Engelke (Guitars, ex-Funeral Procession, Gallery of Darkness and also in Despondency) being the only originators left after these changes.

The band moved on to more genuine death metal style becuase of the influences made by the new members Sascha Hermersdorf (Guitars) and Dirk Janßen (Drums, also in Funeral Procession, Disavowed and Despondency). This meant of a change in name for the band. They settled with Ingurgitating Oblivion in 2002 and began to release material.

In 2002, they released a self-released EP called "Cadence and Perspective in Desolation" which combined malicious, intelligent, deep, technical and abysmal Death Metal influenced by such acts as Incantation, Immolation, Morbid Angel, Gorguts, Hate Eternal, Mortem and the likes. This EP set their style and foresight of what the band were going to do.

They then got local attention from then together Senescence which self-released a split with in 2002 aswell. This provided attention and local gigs to be played around Oldenburg and Niedersachsen.

After, the band had a change in lineup with Dirk Janßen and Henning Dinkla (bass, also in The Awakening)leaving the band. Replacing them were Ingo Neugebauer (drums, ex-Embedded and also in Fetocide) and Christian Pfeil (bass, ex-Senescence). This new line-up recorded a demo in late 2004 "Poetry Of The Flesh" which got attention of some labels.

In 2005, the band signed to Unmatched Brutality of which released their debut full-length album "Voyage Towards Abhorrence" which followed the influences with more technical crushing guitars and deep agressive growls. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ingurgitating+Oblivion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.