There are (2) artists with the name (INJA).  (1) A UK emcee from Delegates of Culture mc inja (1999-present). (2)Rock act from Sweden.

(1) INJA U.k. hip hop and drum and bass Artist (MC/Producer) from Cambridge. His first appearance was in 1999 on the Delegates of Culture self-titled release.  In 2000, he was heavily featured on the Headcleaners mixtape featuring heavyweights like Roots Manuva and Taskforce.  His first solo LP is The Suffering In Silence LP released on his own label: 'Inja Nu Records'.  

soundcloud.com/injamusic
myspace.com/injanu
inja.bandcamp.com/
youtube.com/injatv
twitter.com/#!/injamusic 

injamusic.com/

(2) INJA was originally born in the fall of 2003 in the northern part of Sweden. Formed by the two brothers Sami and Tomi, the whole idea was to start a band that would push themselves further then any of them had done with previous bands. The result was a massive collection of songs being written in very short time. Erica joined the band early 2004 after Tomi had met Ericas boyfriend who was a old childhood friend. Tomi told his friend about this new project INJA and that we were in desperate need of a singer. A few days later Erica recorded the song "As me", of course there was no question about it, she was the missing piece that would make this work.

Many tags and genres can be used to describe this young band from Luleå, Sweden. Like many very talented, top female vocalists of today, Erica sings with a style that is uniquely her own and not easily copied. The entire band is a well meshed collection of disciplined artists.  They released a Demo Album of songs and it is available here on last.fm and their website.

They are friends and been touring with another Swedish band "Machinae Supremacy".  

INJA has signed a record deal with "TracksOnPeak" records. full length album out q1 2007.

Official Site
MYSPACE


Band Members:
ERICA OBERG - vocals 
TOMI TAURIAINEN - drums 
SAMI TAURIAINEN - guitar 
THOMAS LINDKVIST - guitar / vocals 
TOBIAS HENRIKSSON - bass

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inja">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.