Injury Reserve is an Arizona based hip-hop group formed in 2012 by rappers Stepa J. Groggs, Ritchie With a T, and producer Parker Corey.

In 2015, the group self-released Live From the Dentist Office, their 11-track debut project with features from Chuck Inglish, Curtis Williams, Glass Popcorn, and Demi Hughes. The mixtape was released through multiple digital platforms such as SoundCloud, iTunes, Tidal, and Spotify. The project was later commercialized in physical copies through Injury Reserve's online store. Live From the Dentist Office received general acclaim from music critics. On December 15th, 2016, Injury Reserve released a new mixtape titled Floss, released again through a variety of digital platforms. The album featured Vic Mensa and Cakes Da Killa.

On September 29th, 2017, the group released an EP titled "Drive It Like It's Stolen", preceded by the singles "North Pole", "Make You Sweat", and "Boom (x3)". All of the singles were released with accompanying music videos. They are accompanying The Underachievers  on a tour in 2017.

In May of 2019, Injury Reserve released their debut self-titled album Injury Reserve, which was received well by critics and fans, and featuring Pro Teens, Rico Nasty, Freddie Gibbs, Dylan Brady, and more.

On June 29th, 2020, Stepa J. Groggs passed away at age 32. 

On August 10th, 2021, Injury Reserve announced their second album, By the Time I Get to Phoenix, released September 15th, 2021. On the 11th, "Knees" dropped, and on the 1st of September, the second and final single "Superman That" was released. The album only has one vocal feature, ZelooperZ on track "SS San Francisco". However, Morgan Simpson of black midi contributed his drumming on "Outside", Body Meat's drums on "Ground Zero", and co-production with Sadpony and Jam City on "Top Picks For You". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Injury+Reserve">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.