Inmate is Modern Melodic Death/Thrash Metal/Metalcore from Slovenia!
For more information check this :http://www.myspace.com/inmatemetal
http://www.facebook.com/inmateband .

Have you ever experienced a performance that would leave a mark in your life for a long time? Have you ever felt immense energy flowing from a stage towards the audience? If you answered YES, then you've probably heard of INMATE. 

INMATE is a 5-piece creative power engine that is not afraid to push the limits. Strong guitars, striking rhythm section and powerful vocals place the band among modern new age metal groups. Creative and hard working band members developed their musical identity and style, adding a modern approach to the metal genre. The group is known for their firm pose and relentless persistence on stage and elsewhere. 

From the very moment they get to the stage, INMATE radiates such charisma and power that attracts the attention of anyone present. This is not only because the music they make is so perfected but also because anyone can feel the chemistry between all five members. 

The band has performed over 70 times throughout their existence. The highlights of their career so far, were where INMATE supported Dark Tranquillity and Insomnium in Zagreb and Vienna on their “Where Death Is Most Alive” tour. In addition, their first performances in Germany in 2010 left behind big impressions, as well as their appearance at the Rock The Lake Festival in Austria, where Caliban acted as headliner and taking part in some of the biggest festivals in their home country, Slovenia. The most recent highlight was performing at the EasterBang festival in Austria as support for NEAERA and the story continues with their upcoming show in Graz in October. 

Currently INMATE can be found in the studio, working hard to finish their first full-length album, including some great surprises for their fans. One of them is the cooperation with LastDayHere’s frontman Marko, who has contributed to the backing vocals and who more than gladly responded to the band’s invitation. The release of their full length debut album is scheduled in the first couple of months of 2012 – “the year of INMATE” as the band members often point out. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inmate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.