LineUp:

Charles ”Chulle" Rytkönen - Vocals - (Morgana Lefay)
Christer Andersson - Guitar (Tad Morose)
Danne Eriksson - Keyboards (Tad Morose). 
Tommi Karpannen - Bass - (Tad Morose, God Awful Machine)
Peter Moren - Drums - (Tad Morose, Steel Attack)

Inmoria started in April 2008 by former Tad Morose drummer Dan Eriksson.
He was away from the music scene for about 10 years when he suddenly felt the need to start writing music again.
So he bought studio equipment and built his own studio in his house in Bollnäs, Sweden.

At first, Dan played all the instruments by himself but he soon realized that what he needed was a full line up.
So he called up his long time friend Christer “Krunt” Andersson, guitarist in Tad Morose, and asked him to come and listen to some of the songs that he had written.
Christer liked what he heard and Dan asked him if he was interested in joining the project, and he was.

Peter Morén (Tad Morose, Steel Attack) was asked by "Krunt" to join the project to play drums.
And they brought in Tommi Karppanen (Tad Morose, God Awful Machine) to take care of the bass.
Discussions about a singer took place and they soon asked Charles "Chulle" Rytkönen (Morgana Lefay) to come and try out some vocals.
The result was exceptional and he was also asked to join the project and then the line up was complete.

Then Dan sat down and started to come up with a name for the band. He is a great fan of Lord Of The Rings and he started to analyze the movies.
Then, when he heard the actors talking about the dwarfs mine “Moria” he knew that that would be a perfect name.
And he then added “In” and the circle was complete. The atmospheres in the mines in the movies are so dark and brooding and that is a reflection of Inmorias music.
After they had uploaded some of the tracks on their MySpace website, the response was phenomenal and they were overloaded with emails from all over the world.
After a while they signed a deal with German based record company Massacre Records. So far, all the reviews has been awesome for "Invisible Wounds" and the story will continue……….

The band is curently searching for a female vocalist. 


www.MetalPaths.com review 
by Aggelos ''Redneck'' Katsouras. - Rating - 9
----------------------------------------------
I feel really honoured to do a review of an album like this. Inmoria hopefully will be a strong new act in the whole metal scene, the only thing needed is open ears and sharpened minds to accept their vision.

This is the band that Danne Eriksson (known from mighty Bollnas coming Tad Morose) created. The result: Pounding, H E A V Y and uncompomising Swedish music. It doesn’t really matter if it sounds power metal to you, a little thrashier to others or just more modern than usual. It is real and it is happening now, in the year of 2009.

Where hope is lost to many metalheads, about new bands that can give something fresh because ”Invisible Wounds” is directly this: Fresh air, an element missing so much in today’s releases. Also, we have to mention that the album is a combination of a dream-team like line-up. Accompanying Eriksson in his vision are also Christer Andersson (also guitar player and mainman of Tad Morose), Tommi Karppanen (former Morgana Lefay guitarist, now bass player in Tad Morose), Peter Moren (yes, right, Tad Morose member also) and last but not least: the wild card in this project.

Charles Rytkonnen, the godly singer of Morgana Lefay, delivering the goods once again in the most convincing way. Direct, creepy, emotional where it needs, Chulle raises with his haunting voice the level of this album. Entering the clip of this album, ”Come Insanity” (which you all must check as it is a great video, with the band obsessively performing) grabs you straight from the neck and for the next 44 minutes there is no escape. Tracks like ”Alone”, ”Fantasy”, ”Misery” or ”As I Die” (which sounds a while like ”Cloud Connected” of In Flames) are the fellowship to the journey into truth.

This is all what Inmoria is about. Truth, originality, heaviness and many more. By the time that godly ”I Close My Eyes” is over, the move is only one: pushing the repeat button again. I don’t know what will happen next, the band is eager to tour as much as they can and meet new fans. Don’t lose them if they happen to pass from your country, i bet my ass that this album’s energy will be captured live at least 10 times better.

One of the best debut albums in many years and surely, one of the best albums of this decade. And what scares me more, is that it sounds like they did it so easily. I can really count on them. Skoll guys! Tak som fan!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inmoria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.