The band originally started somewhere in late 2003 in Kuala Lumpur, MALAYSIA as two man band with Samad (guitar) and Midon (guitar) with a name "Corporeal Sickness". The name has been chosen after they made a decision to leave their former band Desperate Soul and start a new one. Death Metal! taken to be their genre as inspired by Cannibal Corpse, Deicide... 

Early 2005, the beginning of this band where they found A.P Filthgrinder (or known as A.P.Hellthroat in BreakTheSilence) as a new drummer for Corporeal Sickness and he was an ex-vocal/guitar of Break The Silence and ex -2nd vocalist of Spermblast. Also an one man band called TheTypical Filthy Grindz. Because of that, the decision has been made.They created a new name, a new band together..a new style of Corporeal Sickness changed to INNARDS DECAY. 

In early 2007, they have recorded a few songs for the 3 way split cd will be release under Reverb Production (Malaysia). The lineup for the recorded materials was A.P. Filthgrinder (drums and vocals), Samad (guitars and bass), Midon (guitars). The materials recorded with a small budget. The mixing process done by A.P. Filthgrinder himself. And after that, they search a new member to take place as a vocalist. It’s hard for A.P. to do two things at the same time. Amal, that suggested by Midon have the voice to take the position that agreed after they listened to his vocal's in Midon's side project band call Kemolok.

Still in the same year. The band still not completed yet. So A.P. asked Wan (guitarist from Anguish) to join with Innards Decay to fill in the last position - Bassist. Since Wan have same interest and influence in musick that Innards Decay played and he agreed without any hesitation.So, Innards Decay has completed! 5 members in it,at last! 

A year after, in 2008 - Innards Decay releasing their new material on MCD titled IGNORANCE OF HUMANITY as their mission to finishing their raw unrecorded songs to  make a clear way for their dream missions. Death Metal! it is all about coz for them...

 "we play what we want, feel and like, so depends on you to judge our musick" - INNARDS DECAY.

Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Innards+Decay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.