INNER SANCTUM may reffer to:
1) Old School Black/Death/Thrash Metal from Uruguay, formed in 1989
2) Melodic Death Metal from Germany, formed in 2004
3) Thrash/Death Metal from India, formed in the early months of 2007. 
4) Technical Thrash Metal from England, formed in 1989. Later renamed to Fifth Season. 
5) Dance Act from Canada, formed in 1997. 
6) Alias of Robert Hood (techno)

Biographies below:

1) INNER SANCTUM is a Death Metal band from Uruguay, formed in 1989 in Montevideo, Uruguay, as the brainchild of Heber W. Hammer, and since their very inception it has been marked by events that would characterize the uniqueness of the band. The popularity of the band started to grow, not only in Uruguay, Chile, Argentina or Brazil, but they started to get great reviews from all over the world, mainly European 'Zines that were celebrating INNER SANCTVM's music and approach. By the end of 1993 INNER SANCTVM travels again to Chile to play a show with SARCÓFAGO, and to record their first full length, the "Frozen Souls" album. By that time Álvaro García (drums, also ex Angkor Vat) would join, forming this way the most recognizable line up of the band. Line-Up: Francisco Martín/Bass, Alvaro Garcia/Drums, Heber W. Hammer/Guitars, Anton Reisenegger/Guitars+Vocals

2) Inner Sanctum is a Melodic-Death Metal band from Breisach near Freiburg (Germany). On 15.12.2006 their debut album - "Risen to Fall" - was released. The sound shows similarities to Amon Amarth, the swedish Death Metal band. More info on http://www.enterthesanctum.de  Current Line-Up: Gnom (vocals), Farms, Baphphi (guitar), Jay (drums), Susi (bass)

3) Inner Sanctum is a thrash/death metal outfit from Bangalore formed in the early months of 2007. Despite being a young band, Inner Sanctum have managed to pave their way to become one of India's top metal bands The Band has a standing reputation of being one of the most explosive live acts in India and drive the crowd into a frenzy at virtually every single venue. The band has released their debut EP titled ‘Provenance’. With this release they have pushed the boundaries of metal to another level. With top notch songwriting and production the band stands out both on a National and International level. It has more or less laid down the standard for metal in India and has been held to be one of the most awaited releases this year.

To concrete their standing in the metal scene, Inner Sanctum has also opened for Metallica and Slayer in India. Along with that in 2012, they were also going to open for Behemoth. Inner Sanctum continues to become a growing metal act with their neck breaking performances and brutal music.

4) Inner Sanctum are the U.K's Technical Thrash Metal Pioneers, spanning between 1989-1994. They reside among the ranks of British elite in context to architectural compositions, prestine playing and forward-thinking approach. For fans of (but not limited to): Watchtower, Spiral Architect, Psychotic Waltz, Atheist, Mekong Delta, Forbidden, Agent Steel, Coroner, Vio-lence, Deathrow, Voivod, Toxik, Realm, Garden Wall, Linear Sphere (to name a few). Different members would go on to join other stellar groups like Fifth Season and (especially) The Thinking Principle. A MUST for fans of technical thrash/prog metal! 

5) Inner Sanctum is a dance act which Toronto, Canada in 1997. Consisting of Canadian D.J. and record producer Steven Bolton and British vocalist Steve Kimber.

6) Inner Sanctum is an alias of techno Robert Hood used to release an early 12" on the Axis record label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inner+Sanctum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.