From their webpage: 

Inner Odyssey offers modern progressive music, both complex at the instrumental level and accessible at the vocal level, without denying its ‘70s progressive rock classics roots. Sharing between them a varied musical background of rock, progressive, metal, jazz and pop music, the five musicians play a neo-progressive style characterized by a skillful balance between technical virtuosity and accessibility. The group will release their 3rd album "The Void" in March 2020.

Officially founded in 2007 in Quebec City by guitarist Vincent Leboeuf Gadreau, Inner Odyssey has slowly, but surely, carved out a prominent place in the Canadian progressive scene. Its music is a blend of progressive rock from the 70s with an obvious modern touch. Accessible melodic passages are interwoven with technical and complex instrumental sections, rich and ambitious vocal harmonies and strong rhythmic sections. Inner Odyssey therefore offers a neo-progressive style that will appeal to fans of complex music as well as music lovers who are looking for accessible and well-constructed melodies.

With the successive releases of two albums (Have a Seat - 2011, signed on Unicorn Records and Ascension - 2015), the group had a successful start with a loyal audience, both in terms of attendance at local shows and in terms of online sales, mainly on the European market. Unfortunately, the band experienced significant lineup changes over the last few years, which led them to be less active from 2015 to 2018.

Now made up of a solid and ambitious team, Inner Odyssey is back on the road with a third album entitled "The Void" which will be released on March 1, 2020.

After almost 5 years since the release of its 2nd album and several lineup changes, the progressive rock band Inner Odyssey from Quebec City is back in force, with a solid formation, to present "The Void", a 3rd ambitious opus which reaffirms its colorful and versatile musical vision. This concept album, with a 49:07 minute running time of music spread over 9 original songs, explores the themes of rejection, failure and cyber addiction. The exploitation of these themes is expressed in an atypical and assumed fashion, with metaphors drawn from the virtual world : video games, pornography and social media. It tells the story of an individual plagued by failure and regret, who has no other way of maintaining the denial of his pain than by the anesthesia of his conscious self and the rejection of the real world as he shuts himself up in an alternative and playful reality.

While evolving in a modern and refined instrumental direction, this new album features heavier riffs where the seven-string guitar takes a major place, while adding colorful keyboard lines that recall the sound of 8 bits retro video games. Vocoder's integration does not go unnoticed, barely betraying the influences of a certain Bon Iver. Complex rhythm sections are played alongside passages with electro-ambient influences and Synth Sci-Fi atmospheres, while occasionally giving way to soft acoustic guitars and delicate organic percussions. Dirty and distorted bass lines also comes to the forefront but without overshadowing the ambitious poly-harmonic vocal lines that greatly contribute to the group's sound signature. In other words, the group here played the card of variety and dichotomy. So many influences intertwine in a finely organized chaos and showcase the varied skills and tastes of the five music lovers.

The lineup consists of:
Mathieu Cossete : Keyboards - Vocals
Etienne Doyon: Lead Vocals - Percussion - Keyboards
Vincent Leboeuf-Gadreau : Guitars - Vocals
Alex Rancourt : Bass - Vocals
Cedric Lepage : Drums 

Their music is inspired by bands like Dream Theater, Porcupine Tree, Riverside, Opeth and Spock's Beard. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inner+Odyssey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.