1) Revenge Of The Sun (2010) is the debut release from InnerSelf (Kristijan Petkovski), a new artist from Skopje, Macedonia discovered by Underground Alien Factory Records. InnerSelf’s music will touch your heart and lift your spirit with sparkling melodic highs and raw psychedelic energy. As with other UAFR releases, this release fits within the new school Goa trance movement, but the specific approach heard here is somewhat darker and more mysterious than usual–perhaps even influenced by forest music and the Glowing Flame style of full-on psytrance.

2) Innerself, a six piece melodic hardcore band from Seattle, WA, is taking the scene by storm. Each member with full devotion and different musical backgrounds, they all come together perfectly and passionately to create something unique and exciting in an atmosphere dominated by the norm. Innerself brings a live show of high energy and extreme intensity. Their impressionable sound and live show has been experienced by thousands over the past three years at nearly every venue in the Northwest. It is their belief that this is where the heart of their music lies.

Innerself was formed in late 2001, when Evan (vocals) and Will (guitar) met in high school. After a few line up changes, the duo were introduced to the Britt Brothers, Peter (guitar) and Dave (drums), who were in another band at the time. These bands came across each other several times at band competitions. The four boys joined forces and have never looked back. Earlier this year, Innerself suffered one more blow when their bassist decided to go to college on the East Coast. Having known a bassist from church, the boys presented their quandary to Ruch, who was a perfect fit to the missing low end rhythm. In spring of 2005, Innerself decided to transform their sound to include a keyboard. Nate, their long time merch guy, completed the line up to make it what it is today.

Innerself previously recorded a six song E.P. and a 3 song demo, dated 2002 and 2003 respectively. Following up these projects, the band released their first full length C.D. in early 2005. Believing in Disaster was recorded at Drift Studios in Tacoma, WA by Shaun Disch.

The band disbanded sometime for unknown reasons. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/InnerSelf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.