1. 90's Progressive Metal band from NY, USA. They recorded 5 demos and 1 LP.
www.metal-archives.com/bands/Inner_Strength/2086 

2. 80's American hardcore band.

3. Dutch Folk-pop band. Using an unconventional line-up the Dutch band Inner Strength explores the borders between pop, folk and world music. Gothic-like vocals, viola with a gypsy touch, catchy flute melodies, a hypnotic didgeridoo and a strong rhythmic basis have given the band a unique position in the Dutch music scene. Performances cover a wide variation of styles from groovy, danceable tunes and catchy pop folk songs to serene, sometimes mystical ballads. This is why Inner Strength has been asked to play at cultural, world music, folk and pop festivals.

Inspiration for the foundation of Inner Strength came in late 1999 from the famous flute player Chris Hinze. During the performance of the theatre show 'T'ai Chi in Balance' the idea was born to enrich European pop music with influences from world music. Guitarist Kelly van der Heijden then founded the band and called it 'Inner Strength', the translation of the Chinese word 'chi'.

In 2002 Inner Strength recorded their first demo. The band attended a musical coaching project and one year later played as a support act to the legendary British folk rock band Fairport Convention. In 2004 the mini-CD 'Driven' was released and received positive reviews. That year Inner Strength played at may festivals, like Folkwoods, the Netherlands' biggest folk festival. The last years (2005, 2006) the band has regularly been invited to be the main act at a number of (folk) festivals. They made a very strong impression at a Dutch world music event and in September 2005 the first full CD, Meltemi, of Inner Strength was released.


Discography
Driven (2004) 
Meltemi (2005) 

Band site: http://www.inner-strength.nl/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inner+Strength">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.