Los Angeles indie quintet Inner Wave play a bright, experimental mix of pysch-pop and synthwave that earned them a significant streaming presence and die-hard regional following in the mid-2010s, thanks in part to songs like "American Spirits" and "Eclipse." The group's quirky but catchy songs and combined Filipino, Colombian, and Mexican heritage have helped make them underground stars in the area's Latinx indie rock community alongside acts like Chicano Batman and Cuco. Their 2017 album, Underwater Pipe Dreams, proved to be somewhat of a breakout, earning critical acclaim and increasing their visibility on a national level.

A group of childhood friends from Inglewood who began playing together in their teens, the band consists of Pablo Sotelo (vocals/guitar), Jean Pierre Narvaez (bass/vocals), Chris Runners (keys/vocals), Elijah Trujillo (guitar/keys), and Luis Portillo (drums). An early diet of bands like the Arctic Monkeys, the Strokes, and Gorillaz fueled their imagination as they learned their instruments and began writing songs together during high school in the late 2000s. By the time they began releasing music in 2012, Inner Wave had transformed themselves into a pysch-driven indie pop band with a lo-fi bent and a strong D.I.Y. presence. A series of self-released singles and EPs paved the way for their first full-length, 2013's III. The album's bubbly lo-fi single, "American Spirits," went on to notch millions of streams on major streaming platforms. The exploratory Sun Transmissions followed a year later as Inner Wave continued to build buzz as a live band. A steady stream of signals throughout early 2017 preceded the August release of their ambitious third album, Underwater Pipe Dreams. An hour long and boasting 18 tracks, the experimental set was followed in 2018 by similarly toned companion EP, Underwater +, further bolstering their reputation as a creative and engaging act. Inner Wave returned in the middle of 2019 with the warped but sunny EP wya. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inner+Wave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.