If you are looking for crunching groove laden female fronted metal, with soaring melodies and melodic harmonies - then you are looking for Inner Eden. Combining elements of 90's power groove, 80's thrash and modern day melodic extreme heavy metal displaying an array of textures- while incorporating thought provoking and inspiring lyrics - then Re:Birth is the EP to watch out for.

Mixed by legendary producer Dan Sprigg (who has previously worked with Cradle of Filth, Napalm Death, Bring me the Horizon and Lost Prophets) the sound encapsulates the raw but beautiful sound the band create. Mastered by Tim Turan (Emperor, At the Gates, Obituary, Motorhead and many more) the huge sound that emits from the speakers is enough to scare even the bravest of Emo Kids.

While giving the nod to metals great genres, Inner Eden manage to blend a modern contemporary style of metal into powerful thrash and power grooves, to give catchy and memorable songs. Their 2009 debut EP shows the definition of their music, and the driving force that is turning heads within the music scene today.

Hailing from London UK and formed in mid 2008 by guitarist and song writer Jay 'The Machine' Murphy , John Rae (Wykked Wytch and Ex-Cradle of Filth drum tech) and Paul Williams - they where subsequently joined by former Dark Heresy, Obsidian (UK), Neoentity and Without Cause bassist Hans Stiles , adding another 15 years to Inner Eden’s collective live and studio experience. Then by the awe inspiring powerful yet angelic vocalist Holly Bollus, resulting in the formidable and powerful line up you now hear on the Cd.

Re:Birth opens with Throat Slitting Bitch - a sound track to a generation of despair and the disillusionment of society and welcomes you to the honed sound of the band. leading into V is for Violence, a cacophony of melody and demonic riffing telling the story of one women's vengeance on the world. Law of armour shows the dynamic of the band with its beautiful harmonies and soaring vocal lines with Holly telling us ' i am a law of armour, unto myself' and with the appropriately named MURDER DEATH KILL the final track hits you like a sledge hammer as you live the horror of a horrific and brutal attack and human natures will to survive.

With a brutal and uncompromising live show they are here to take the world by storm. with previous experience touring and supporting bands such as Nightwish, Overkill, Lost Prophets, Deicide and Nuclear Assault to name a few Inner Eden are no strangers to hard work and always give 100% into any show they play, winning new fans at every performance.

"Inner Eden are simply awesome a perfect blend of melody/aggression/Harmony and brutality. They played one of the best sets I have seen in a long time." - STU London Promoter

"Ferociously-charged-female-thrashy-metal-power lead by the fantastic vocals of Holly. Band members are no stranger to the underground circuit racking up a few miles of stage appearances between them. The signs are very promising for Inner Eden who are destined to turn heads for the rest of 2009". - Nix Pure Rawk & TotalRock

"what DEATH would sound like if Christina Scabbia sang along" - Red Beard Productions

As Jay states "With a full album ready to record, Our EP Re:Birth is just a small taste of things to come, so watch out for coming live shows and grab a copy of the CD when you see us - we are all proud as hell with this record" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inner+Eden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.