INNER SANCTVM was formed in 1989 in Montevideo, Uruguay, as the brainchild of Heber W. Hammer, and since their very inception it has been marked by events that would characterize the uniqueness of the band.

Heber had already formed one band before, Melkor Morgoth in 1986, being that band the very first one in Uruguay's land to perform Extreme Metal, but the best would yet to come.
Pablo Van Lagat would join on bass and vocals (ex Angkor Vat), and Adolfo Loskin on drums, and just a few weeks after the forming of INNER SANCTVM, the band recorded a Live Tape out of a show in Montevideo, that tape was passed to some people in Chile, and the band was then invited to perform live in Santiago, Chile, being this a very rare situation for a band coming from Uruguay, and let's say it, a rare situation for any underground band just being formed. Adolfo wouldn't be able to travel to Chile so Andy Viglioni was brought in as drummer.

In Chile the band got an amazing feedback from the crowd, and in Chile also is where they got in contact to start working on their debut four tracks Demo Tape "Shadows In The Mirror".

The popularity of the band started to grow, not only in Uruguay, Chile, Argentina or Brazil, but they started to get great reviews from all over the world, mainly European 'Zines that were celebrating INNER SANCTVM's music and approach.

By the end of 1993 INNER SANCTVM travels again to Chile to play a show with SARCOFAGO, and to record their first full length, the "Frozen Souls" album. By that time Alvaro García (drums, also ex Angkor Vat) would join, forming this way the most recognizable line up of the band.

The album was released in 1994 and once again the critics were nothing but great, the band started to grow to a level never seen before in Uruguay, also touring Latin America, but then tension within the band's members forced to Heber W. Hammer to leave the band. Beto would be the one in charge to take the 6 stringed axe.

As Heber was the driven force behind INNER SANCTVM, Pablo Van Lagat was the face of the band, and soon enough he would also departure. José Romero (later on Requiem Aeternam) would replace Pablo but the countdown for INNER SANCTVM's days had already begun.

During 2006 Heber would try to re-start the band but it failed, the musicians weren't the right ones and certain circumstances surrounding INNER SANCTVM went totally out of control, so that, everything was folded again.

Now in 2009 everything was more clear and the chances were there, Heber wrote an entire new album and Alvaro (now located in Madrid, Spain) agreed on becoming the drummer. Francisco Martín (who lives now in Sweden), a long time related person to INNER SANCTVM, was brought as the new bass player. There's no singer yet, and there won't be until the band finish the recording of the new album, the music, then the band will decide who will sing on the songs, there are already some candidates but there's no decision taken as the band wants to try the singers with the final versions of the tracks.

INNER SANCTVM is looking now for some label to release their new stuff, and to then re-release a remastered (plus bonus) version of the "Frozen Souls" album, if interested just get in touch. 

innersanctvm@myspace.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inner+sanctvm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.