The band itself even without a name started to exist in 2005. Guitarists Peter and Juraj met at the cottage party of their common friends (among others Katka who plays bass) and after consuming „a little“ of alcoholic beverages they settled for a meeting to play some of their favorite bands' songs. The little jam session took place at Juraj's place, where they enjoyed playing together and agreed on meeting in the near future as well.....

After some time Peter received a call from Juraj and was asked to help with a composition of a song (Absorbed to Core). Peter agreed and future band began to meet on regular basis at occasional Katka's presence. They played mostly cover versions of world famous bands but step by step they added their own songs.....
As working on Be It My Will, We Are and Burn My Soul they started to think about completing the band, i.e. seeking for a singer and a drummer. Their friend Peter, who changed guitar for microphone at that time, came to the rehearsal (2007). It went pretty well but he was worrying about damaging his vocal chords when doing extreme vocals, which the band required. He didn’t feel like doing it at that time and decided not to join the band (yet).....

Concerning drummers, the first of them was Igor, who initially played in BYČ and stayed with Inner Response only for a while (2007). He left the band because of different musical orientation. The next drummer Andy, performing in BYČ as well, played with Inner Response half a year (2008), but because of his many interests (school, job and other band) he decided to leave the band.....

The band stopped searching for a new drummer for a while and focused on vocals. After trying different singers the well known Peter came for rehearsal and he blowed the minds of all members of the band with the progress he made. Continual exercises, studying and trying new methods repaid generously and the singing Peter presented fit in the music of Inner Repsonse so much that he became the rightful member of the band immediately.....

In the second half of 2008 the band came up with an idea of recording an album. Many songs had already been completed and the rest of them almost finished, so why not. At the end of November 2008 the recording process of the debut album started. The first song which was about to test Juraj's home studio was called Lies Inside.....

Because no one in the band was in the mood for searching for a new drummer and giving instructions to him, they decided to use an automatic drummer. Concerning mixing and mastering, they chose Robert Cunderlik, a person well known in this area in Slovakia. He finished his work on Lies Inside and Burn My Soul but then he signed for an important and long-lasting project and therefore he could not work on anything else at that time. Inner Response continued with the recording process which ended in November 2009. Because Robert Cunderlik was still very busy they looked for someone else. The cooperation with other studios did not work out very well and in the end they stayed with Robert Cunderlik finished the work on the album. 

The band also decided to make some promo pictures and some photos for the booklet with photographer Marius Sachtikus. 

In April 2010 a bass player Adam Turňa joined the band.

In September 2010 the band finally released their debut album Two of Me (at their own expense) and a drummer Gabriel Volšík joined the band.

In the meantime Inner Response is looking for label.

Only one thing is to add in conclusion. The name Inner Response is mentioned pretty much in this biography and it creates a delusion that it flows by the band the whole time of its existence. Though the truth is that until the half of November the band was nameless and all its members were thinking hard to make something appropriate up. In the end they agreed on Inner Response because it sounds right and because it declares the idea of music and lyrics of the band.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inner+response">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.