There are 2 bands called Innosense.

1 An all girl pop group from the USA

2 A progressive metal band from Greece

1

Some things are just simply meant to be...Call it fate, kismet, destiny, karma or just plain good luck. Such is the story of Innosense, five young ladies who have come together to conquer the world of pop. Nikki, Mandy, Jenny, Veronica and Danay have been waiting for this moment all their lives.

This group initially started with a casting call headed by manager, Ms.Lynn and Transcon CEO and founder Louis J. Pearlman. Nikki Deloach and ex-mmc member Britney Spears were first casted. As a recommendation from NSYNC's Lance Bass and Joey Fatone, Mandy Ashford and Danay Ferrer soon joined the group along with former member Amanda Latona. Innosense was to head to Memphis, TN to start their new group, however Britney decided to venture off into a solo career. To scramble to find a 5th member the girls ran into Veronica Finn who had been a friend of Justin Timberlake. For the next year and half Innosense began to rehearse, record and tour. 

For several months, the girls preformed at Orlando's HOB and HRL houses up and down Florida. The group's first public performance was the Orlando Florida Band's Get-to-gether benefit concert on March.15.1998 hosted by the Backstreet Boys. The benefit was an aid to help tornado victims in Central Florida. The crowd consisted of 15,000 people. On October 3rd, 1998, Innosense's first single, "Wherever You Are", was released while the girls were opening up for DJ BoBo in Germany. Then in December of that same year, Amanda annouced that she would leave the group with no explanation to the public. 

Soon after Amanda's departure, she was replaced with Jenny Morris in January of 1999. Jenny made her debut appearance as an Innosense member on January.28.1999 at the House Of Blues. Right away the girls began to again rehearse, record and preform for the next year.

Sadly Jenny's place in the group didn't last long. In May of 2001 Jenny left Innosense for reasons that were unknown but the girls were strong enough to pull through the loss of another member and are determined to carry on. Now as a four piece, the girls were determined to be the best that they can be, and who knew where they're going to go? They were hoping for the best but their luck ran out.

After Jenny left, their fairy tale started to fast forward to the un-happy ending. Their music was slowly getting less and less air play making their label not that happy. They never officially broke up but no one has heard any new music from them in years, sadly. Just think what would of happened if Britney Spears stayed in this band. No one would know who she was now. 

2

Innosense is a melodic-progressive metal group from Larissa, Greece formed in 2005. Their style is mainly influenced by progresive metal legends Fates Warning and Conception with a more aggresive sound. Up until now Innosense have played a number of gigs as headliners and as a support act for bands such as SIEGES EVEN and EVERGREY. In 2011 Innosense released their debut album "Outcast" consisting of 10 tracks, with Steel Gallery Records.

Vasilis Georgiou (Vocals)
Michalis Maroulis (Drums)
Aristotelis Papageorgiou (Guitars)
Vasilis Liakos (Bass)
Nikos Tsiogas (Keyboards)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Innosense">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.