There is more than one artist with this name:

1. Innsmouth are a death metal trio from the Blue Mountains, NSW, Australia, formed in 2008. 

Nightgaunt – Ichthyic strings and Aqualungs
Brown Jenkin – Sea trench disturbance
Neilanderthal – Skins and bones

Inspired by the old gods; both the musical ones and the ones best left unmentioned Innsmouth unleashed their debut demo in early 2009 through Abysmal Sounds in Australia. With a blatant disregard for unnecessary blast beats, triggered drums and an all too clean and neat guitar tone Innsmouth bring the metal of death to help destroy what is left of your broken minds. With a 7” planned for the near future and a mini LP lurking a little further out to sea, the Innsmouth Horde has come to destroy. The future looks Bream!

2. A black metal band from the Dominican Republic, formed in 2004.
The band Innsmouth formed at the end of year 2004 in Santo Domingo. It started out as a project from Junior Corpse as the guitarist and Dani as the bass player and vocals, to put in practice the musical influences of the traditional Black Metal.

In its start the project was maintained within the personal plane of it's members and was limited to home recording sessions completed with a drum machine.

Some time later the decision to take the project further than it had been from the start, was taken, with the vision of projecting their music to the Dominican metal scene.

In the beginning of year 2006, the drummer of the Doom metal band 'Aradia', Omar Ortiz, joined Innsmouth, complementing the element that the band needed, musically wise, and therefore takes a place in the actual alignment of the band.

Innsmouth debuts formally on April the 22nd of the year 2006, in the event: A night of metal. The band had a good acceptance from the crowd and the presentation was filled with energy from the band and public.

In October the 5th, 2006, Heretic is forced to leave the band due his departure from the country, thus leaving the following line-up: JuniorCorpse on vocals/guitars, Jormungand on drums, and a new member, Horrid as bassist.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Innsmouth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.