Born in the Miyazaki prefecture in Japan, INO’s musical talent emerged at the age of five when he started playing piano.  But his remarkable journey began in the year 2002, when he launched his own cafe “Tenement” in Ebisu, Tokyo, his home base for his music project.

In 2004, INO launched the label “Innocent Record”. It was named by Yasuharu Konishi (Pizzicato five). With his “one artist, one label” policy, it only releases and manages his own music.

In 2005, he released a “7inch series” representing his loyalty to the 7-inch analog record format. A total of 7 records have been released. The first four have already become rare classic catalogues  in the Tokyo music market.

In 2006, his 1st album “Satisfaction” was released. Despite no promotions, it ranked in the top 10 indie charts at the major record stores in Tokyo for 32 weeks. INO became a legend. “Satisfaction” has been frequently played on BBC radio in UK. it received rave reviews by critics in Europe.  He collaborated with French designer Jean Touitou of A.P.C. to create the CD “Three Easy Pieces”. Also, his music was featured in UNIQLO’ s special compilation album commemorating their first NYC store.

In 2007, his first concert tour the “Satisfaction Tour" launched. Six shows including Tokyo and London were sold out. Again critics gave outstanding reviews for his eclectic and feisty sound production featuring the trio (keyboard, drums and bass) and a minimal stage set. Besides appearances to large scale music festivals, INO headlined Giles Peterson’s Japan tour. 

“The Force of Exotic” was released in collaboration with Tower Records Japan.  IDF, a collaborative unit with Hiroshi Fujiwara was formed.

In 2008, the INO Hidefumi LIVE SET DVD came out followed by his 2nd album “Living Message”.  As elegant and feisty as the 1st album was, added was the essence of a modern classical sound. His eclectic style even expanded its boundaries some more. His album artworks, also done by INO himself, have attracted his listeners greatly.

From composing and performing, to programming and mixdown, his music is all hand crafted and true to his heart. A music-maker of rectitude with refined craftsmanship and an inspirational tone,  INO’s music grabs his listener’s hearts.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ino+Hidefumi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.