June 16, 2009 was a pivotal day in the music world.  This day marked the release of the landmark debut EP of Insanitarium, Maxwells Dream.  The duo arose from the streets of Middleburgh, NY, featuring rappers from the legendary, yet elusive hip-hop collective t.VoEkS & the M-Burgh Boizzz.  The group features the surreal soundscapes of Young Fawn (a.k.a. t.VoEkS) and Lil' Sousa (a.k.a. J-Rizzle), as they decided to lay down their microphones and take to a more delicate instrument, the synthesizer.  The monumental Maxwells Dream EP is actually a concept album, with four beautiful tracks sending the listener on a musical journey through the sleep cycle of one of the groups personal heros and influences, Sir Michael Maxwell I.  Michael Maxwell is well known within the Middleburgh community from which the group hails.  The group first took notice of him due to his philanthropic exploits within the community, rendering him a local celebrity of sorts.  He helped the groups Lil' Sousa through one of the toughest times in his life, sitting by his bedside as Sousa experienced painful heroin withdrawals, never leaving him until he once again well.  The group felt that this cadillac of men deserved more recognition, so they decided to show the public a portrait of one of the most beautiful men to have ever walked the earth.
In recent weeks since the legendary debut album shattered the conventional musical landscapes American culture was used to, the group has fallen into a creative hiatus.  As Young Fawn's suboxone addiction spirals out of control, Lil' Sousa has announced that he can no longer be around such hedonistic and self-destructive behavior.  Sousa was quoted as saying, "I hope that Fawn realizes what he is doing to himself and those around him, but until he gets his act together, I can no longer consider him my friend and band-mate.  He is a mess, and he doesn't even realize it.  I myself have fallen victim to the allure of the beautiful orange octagon known as suboxone, and I can't stand by and watch another helpless soul be lured in by her deadly siren song.  I have nothing further to say about Young Fawn, other than that I wish him and his family the best of luck in getting back on the track to life and prosperity he once walked down." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insanitarium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.