In the vein of melodic power metal bands with female vocals, INSATIA draws it's inspirations from the great genre giants of Europe such as Nightwish and Epica. 
Insatia's beginnings were in the mind of guitarist Jon "DUCK" Harris, who in Spring 2008 began a new project, Atomic Revolution. After numerous incarnations, the project was retitled Insatia and released a debut EP entitled "Left Behind" (2009) featuring vocalist Karri. Numerous lineup changes followed in an attempt to form a dependable team of committed musicians. It was not until 2012 that a stable lineup was achieved with Jon Harris joined by drummer Mike Jester and Vocalist Zoe Federoff. A debut album was released entitled "Asylum Denied" (2013) and a following across the globe arose in appreciation, praising the "ethereal" vocal work of Zoe and the masterful song writing of all musicians involved.

In 2014 Jon Harris and Mike Jester resigned from Insatia for personal and scheduling reasons. Vocalist Zoe recruited drummer Seth Booze to continue the band and take it in new directions. Additional musicians Matt Hanna (LASTWATCH), Matt Federoff and Jeremy Gypton were added for live shows. This lineup performed for the first time on October 1st, 2014, in Mesa AZ opening for SONATA ARCTICA, DELAIN, and XANDRIA. Legendary producer and bassist for SERENITY Fabio D'Amore then announced his position as producer on Insatia's upcoming sophomore album, Phoenix Aflame.

Following this successful show, Jeff Swanson (GRAVITY LIES) and Ed Novotny were announced as INSATIA's permanent lead and rhythm guitarists. Roland Tyler was welcomed as permanent bassist, and finally Fabricio Montenegro completed the family on keys. 

A second album, Phoenix Aflame, was released in 2017. Zoe and Matt Federoff lated formed Catalyst Crime and Zoe is also currently a member of Cradle of Filth. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insatia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.