It is safe to say that in the short existence of the band, there are two periods.
In the first period (2005-2007) the band was formed by Fotis Pindis (guitars) and two other musicians, all from Thessaloniki/Greece, which was followed by the recordings of the Demo-E.P. Smash Down and Resist. The sound of Smash Down and Resist can be described as a mix of thrash and deathcore. The acceptance of the demo by the fans and the metal press was overwhelming with highlights the Demo of the month in Greek Metal Hammer, 8 straight weeks No1 unsigned band at the asylum radio show on WCNI and No1 on the top 50 underground bands in 2007 on the same radio show. Unfortunately, despite the succes of the demo, the band couldn't promote it propertly because of the constant line up changes. By the end of 2007 the only band members left were Fotis Pindis (guitars) and the bass player Mitch Economou.


They became the start of the second period of the band. At the very beginning of 2008 the first task was to find a drummer and a vocalist to start the recordings of the new material which already was written. At first our good friend Thanasis from the greek black metal band Morpheus, steps in to fill the place of the vocalist and after a short while, Maxi Schulz a German drummer from Munich, joined us by responding on the bands myspace ad. At the end of February 2008 Maxi Schulz flew from Munich to Thessaloniki to rehearse with the rest of the band and afterwards to record the new material. With only nine days of rehearsals Maxi nailed the drum tracks on the recordings (March 2008) with almost one take. By the hearing of the drum tracks with the guitar guide we realised that we were creating something really special and totally worth all our personal struggles. The guitar and bass recordings took place in April 2008 and shortly before the vocal recordings some voice problems of Thanasis were the cause for Fotis to take over the vocals. Despite the disappointment, Fotis managed to do a very satisfying job that brings the perfect passion and energy to our new songs. Meanwhile a Greek fan of ours named Nick Cosmas who was born and raised in Dueren/Germany took the place of the second quitarist. Nick was the missing link for the creation of a solid steady and heavy as fuck line up for the first time in the band's history.

Finally The New Album is ready and now the band seeks for a record label and live dates.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insane+Court">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.