From Pescara, Italy 

http://www.myspace.com/insiderband

http://www.insider-dome.it/

Influences: King Crimson, Pink Floyd, Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath, Hawkwind, Goblin, Helios Creed, Chrome, Jimi Hendrix, Ash Ra Tempel, Gong........

BIOGRAPHY: Insider formed in 1991 as a trio band, with the goal to melt the different artistic experiences and to create a new and serious musical project. Giuseppe Miccoli (who left Insider after the recording of the first CD, in which he played as a drummer) played for a long time with “Requiem” and “The Black”, recording some albums (heavy metal style) which have been distributed by Minotauro Records. Marco and Piero Ranalli (founders of Insider) come from the band “City Sewer System”, with which they have recorded 3 demo tapes, highly valued by the critics. This enabled C.S.S. to play several live shows in italian clubs, including a gig with “Treponem Pal” (french industrial-band) in Rome (at “Circolo degli Artisti”) and a festival in Slovenia. 

Eugenio Mucci (previously singer of “Requiem” and “The Black”) joined Insider for the recording of Land of Crystals as a singer. The first CD of Insider includes the main instances of the recent musical underground (death, doom), melt with the dark of the 80’s, the sound of guitar master " Helios Creed " and the 70’s psychedelic rock. The lyrics tell about trips to the deep of each self’s microcosmos (Inner sacrifice), about istitutions born to enslave mankind with sense of sin (Prophets of discrimination), about ancient societies who left undeletable signs of infinite wisdom (Back to the ancients) and about all things which are perceptible only spiritually. The CD was recorded at the “Stellar Madhouse Studios” by Marco and Piero Ranalli and mixed by Paul Chain at the “Day Records Studios”. This work was then distributed by “Flying Record” in January 1997. The second work, Land of Crystals, also entirely recorded at the “Stellar Madhouse Studios” by Marco and Piero Ranalli, and then mixed by Paul Chain at the “Day Records Studios”, presents musical features much more oriented to the sound of 70’s; it’s a psychedelic hard rock distinguished by a wall of guitars, in which is possible to gaze the sideral depths of space. 

The lyrics tell about a trip that goes through a path with no goal, where emotions follow each other in a picture which alternates ecstasy with pain. A voyage inside the “Land of Crystals”. The CD includes Paul Chains’s cover “Bath Chair’s Mary” (from the album “Opera IV”). This work was published by “Dolmen Production” and distributed in 1998 by “White and Black”. The third album, “Jammin’ for Smiling God”, with Andrea Sestri (singer of “When Mind Reflects”) at the voice, is an excursion through the space-rock in its authentic meaning. It’s a hallucinatory and ipnotic trip, lead with the wise use of wah wah, analog synths and space effects in “Krautrock” style. Recorded and mixed at the “Stellar Madhouse Studios”, it has been published and distributed in 2000 by “Beard of Stars Records”. The latest cd "simple water drops" has been recorded and mixed by Marco Ranalli at his new studio called "Andruid records" with Eugenio Mucci (vocals) and Gregorio Angelucci (drums), It has been released on summer 2005 by Beard of stars records. This album is more acid blues oriented with some psych-prog rock tones of the '70. 

The forthcoming album is in progress and will be recorded at "Andruid records". They will be involved in the creation of the new songs Marco Ranalli: GUITARS, SYNTH; Piero Ranalli ( also one-man band in Unimother 27): BASS; Stefano Di Rito: DRUMS <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insider">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.