There are several artists named Insight:

1. An American Hip-Hop artist, who also records as Soloplexus and with Shinsight Trio and Y Society.

2. Late 80's hardcore band from Salt Lake City, Utah.
         Signed to the record label Victory Records, The not only were on the Innerstrength / INSIGHT split VR1 but were also on the compilation VR05 Only the Strong The Compilation  they were the third song on Side Victory [song] silent Shore[/song] this compilation also had other notable hardcore bands, Life Cycle , Face Value , Confront , Meanstreak , Integrity
    Insight was Salt Lake's first major straightedge hardcore act. Their passionate lyrics of drug-free ethics and animal rights consciousness set the stage for outspoken SLC bands to come, from Lifeless to Cherem. Formed in the late '80s, the band released two 7" records, Standing Strong (Soulforce Records) and What Will It Take (Victory Records' Release), before disbanding in the early '90s. Insight tracks also appeared on Victory's Only the Strong and Victory Singles: Volume 1 compilations as well as the classic Voice of Thousands comp which featured early material from Integrity and Outspoken. 
Drummer Chad Smith went on to play with Salt Lake band Iceburn (Victory, Revelation). Bassist Doug Wright played in early formations of Iceburn and now plays with New York City rock band The Dirty Pearls. Guitarist Jeremy Chatelain went on to play with Iceburn, Handsome (alongside Tom Capone of Bold & Quicksand) and Jets to Brazil (alongside Blake of Jawbreaker). He is currently doing a country-pop project called Cub Country.

3. A late 80's/early 90's hardcore band from the UK. They released a 7" called "Beyond The Circle" in 1990 and an LP entitled "Fade" in 1991.

4. A Rapcore band from Italy with an EP called "Hidden Blind Lies".

5. A British DJ who produces uk Hardcore, Drum and Bass, Funk, Dub and Techno.

6. Heavy Metal Band from Croatia - Rijeka (90's - The band fell-apart)

7. Jazz band  with an album called "A Genesis".

8. A synth band from Barcelona, Spain
Insight is the solo project of Raúl Muñoz-Torrero Gálvez
https://insight5.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.