Thirteen years after their formation, Insidead advanced towards the completion of their first album called "Chaos Elecdead", an album that combines the maturity of the band together with the enthusiasm of the new. During this period the members of the band were building day by day the foundation which is here to stay and it does not constitute another firework in the chaos of the music world. Many live appearances took place, together with enough informal works in the studio, and a constant communication with people in the music business enriched the development of the band's experiences. The band is located in Greece and Sweden since the founding band member Nick M. was born and raised in Sweden. The most important moment is certainly considered Insidead's appearance at Wacken Open Air 2009, in which Insidead gave the "present", after they were determined to be winners based on jury voting in the competition of Wacken Metal Battle. Immediately after the end of the festival the departure of guitarist George P. took place, in a moment where all members began realizing with an eminent way that the situation has passed to a higher, more professional level.

Returning to the most important moments of the band, one year earlier and specifically, the summertime of 2008 Insidead performed at Rockwave Festival alongside with world-famous bands such as Judas Priest, Cavalera Conspiracy, Morbid Angel and Carcass. Before the above, very good support to renowned bands like Nightrage and Ensiferum took place, something that increased the band's value and experience.

At the same time, Insidead recorded the first promo, ideas of which can be found in the album "Chaos Elecdead'. The pre-production of the debut album was done by the very same members of the band in the studio that Insidead own, a studio where they are currently composing new, fresh material for the next album.The recordings were done in the summer of 2009 at Encore/In The Core media studio by Labyss Kastanas while the mixing and mastering was completed by R.D. Liapakis and Christian at Prophecy and Music factory studio in the winter of 2009-2010.Some previous important recordings that were prepared by R.D. Liapakis are Mystic Prophecy,Suicidals Angels and Eldritch among many others.The art design of the album was made by Meran Karanitant who has worked with great bands in the metal industry such as Hatebreed, Six Feet Under, Mystic Prophecy and many others. Special mentions need to be given to the three sponsorship collaborations that Insidead has acquired with multinational corporations and big names in the music world such as Schecter, Mapex, and Koch Amps. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insidead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.