There are two artist who use this name:

1) (Taken from the band's Jamendo site http://www.jamendo.com/es/artist/Inside_Me )

We started back in '96 and haven't stopped since.

We went through a lot of line up changes until we found a stable one in late '99, but that didn't stop us from releasing our demo tape in '98 and one song in the Madrid Hardcore compilation cd in early '99, and playing as many shows as we could.

We greeted the new century with more shows with the new line up, and released our demo cd "La Ira De Los Vivos" in '01, the "Lies Are Our Truth" promo cd and one song in the Staf Magazine compilation, and we appeared in the "lmnt:01" split cd with J'N and Roll The Dice, released by Wanted Recordings, in '04.

One of our guitarists, Pepo, left the band in the begginig of '05 and he missed our first european tour in October, playing in France, Belgium and Germany. After that, we focused on writing new songs and hit the studio, but right after the recording in summer '06, our dummer, Javi, left the band, got married and didn't have as much free time as before.

We focused on finding a new drummer, and to our surprise, we already had one with us. Luis, our bass player, changed strings for sticks after looking for a drummer better than him for some months, and we got Rober on the bass duties. Sadly, '06 and most of '07 was spend relearning the old songs, and after one show we realized we needed a second guitarist, so we called Duncan in, and in '08 we look forward to play more shows than ever, everywhere, to promote our first full cd, "Against Adversity".

We (Luis, Justo, Duncan, Rober & David) want to play at your local bar and have a good time!

2) INSIDE ME is a japanese band which consists of three members: 
Kojima Ryōsuke (Guitar, Vocal, Piano)     (ex. Pick2Hand, KELUN)
Kiyoshi (Bass, Vocal)     (ex. THE HUSKY)
Tabei Masashi (Drums)     (4 bonjour's parties, ex. detroit7)
The band was formed in 2010 and they are currently doing music and live performances in Japan.

www.insidemejp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inside+Me">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.