The doom death gothic industrial metal band INSIDE YOU was established in 2002 in Istra town (Moscow region, Russia). Since then the band has released two studio albums at one of the leading Russian independent labels CD-Maximum; has played a lot of shows all around Russia and CIS, also supporting such important international acts like TIAMAT, SAMAEL, LAKE OF TEARS, MOONSORROW, AMORPHIS; has participated in many big national and international rock festivals. 

INSIDE YOU was well accepted by the fans at the biggest Russian rock festivals Emmaus and Nashestvie. In 2008 INSIDE YOU represented Russia at one of the biggest European metal festivals Metalmania (Poland). The band entered the same stage with such legends of heavy metal and rock like MEGADETH, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Satyricon, Overkill, Vader, Immolation, Artillery, Flotsam And Jetsam, Marduk among others. Musicians were very happy to take place in Metalmania, the band got a lot of experience and very good response from the audience and the head of Metalmania festival and Metal Mind Production label  Tomasz Dziubinski.

At this moment Inside You is working at its third studio album and is doing shows playing some new songs among old hits. 

history: 

INSIDE YOU was established in April 2002 on a base of industrial project «СYBER.NET», who supported the legendary doom metal band TIAMAT at their first concert in Russia in 2002. Before playing in “CYBER.NET” the musicians took part in some other bands quite popular at the local stage like AGRESSOR (brutal death). The sound of the new act “INSIDE YOU” was more melodic but heavier, closer to “Crematory” and ”Samael”. 
In 2003 the band recorded its first demo “GRIEVOUS” which consisted of 8 songs. After some concerts in Moscow and Moscow region INSIDE YOU recorded the new demo “Lost in the faith”. This song got to the top-3 in Rock-pricel (nowadays Pricel) program at Radio Rossii, one of the major radio stations covering all Russia, CIS and some parts of Eastern Europe. 
The first official LP CD of the band saw the light of day in 2005 through CD-Maximum label. The album included six songs and the video “In A Winter Wood”. Later on this videoclip was included in DVD “Totum Dissemination” compilation by MINF Prod./together with Music Infection TV (2006). 
During all this time the band played together with many famous international bands as a supporting act: Samael, Tiamat, Moonsorrow, Attakama, Amorphis among others. In 2006 INSIDE YOU did the complete Russian tour with Lake of Tears. 
At the end of 2007 CD-Maximum released the second studio album of the band called «NIGHT HUNT». Besides many shows in Russia, the band did a huge tour along Ukraine and took part in Metalmania festival (2008).
Now the band is composing the new material for its third studio album and preparing to enter the studio. INSIDE YOU is preparing a lot of surprises to its fans from musical and conceptual points of view.
The symbol of the band is the symbiosis of two very strong symbols – MOON and HALF MOON, that signified human soul in 17 century, like the forces of good and evil. The idea is that the meaning of our lives is what remains after death, reflecting our way… 

DISCOGRAPHY:
“LOST IN THE FAITH” (2005, CD-MAXIMUM)
«NIGHT HUNT» (2007, CD-MAXIMUM)

LINE-UP
 Andrei Zimin - guitars, vocals 
 Alexei Vasiliev - keyboards 
 Dmitri Yudin - drums 
 Sergei Markov - bass 

LINKS:
Official website: http://www.inside-you.ru 
Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/insideyoumetal
Vkontakte: http://vkontakte.ru/club666745
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inside+You">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.