There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Insolence is a Hip-hop band from USA.

Hip-hop, reggae and hardcore influenced band, they began in 1995, in the depths of the streets of San Jose , California. Within months, the band quickly formed a substantial following throughout the San Francisco Bay area that eventually led them to hit the touring circuit with several national acts, including but not limited to Rancid, Incubus, System of a Down, Sevendust, Janes Addiction, Papa Roach, Alien Ant Farm, Adema, Machine Head, Staind and Cypress Hill.

With a growing fan base, were spread to other countries, as they toured through Europe in the summer of 1998 and 1999 and teamed with their ex -management, Nova Entertainment, signed a record deal with Madonna's record label, Maverick Records. In 2000, the band released their first major-label album, Revolution , to see great success. Shortly thereafter, the band began touring in the states in support of the album, alongside Black Sheep, Hoobastank , Ill Nino, Soulfly, Corporate Avenger, Kottonmouth Kings, and Insane Clown Posse.

The single, Poison Well, was circulated regularly on MTV's The Real World, Road Rules and TRL. Tracks from the album were also featured on the soundtrack to Adam Sandler's, Little Nikki, and the trailer for Robert Redford's, Last Castle . Live performances were aired on USA Networks, Farmclub, alongside Nelly, Destiny's Child and Static-X. the band was then flown out to Toronto to film a cameo for the Sylvester Stallone movie, Driven . Their tracks were also featured on Sean Palmer's, Pro Snowboarder for Play Station 2.

Insolence has also been signed to Warner Music, with great success, and has sold well over 100,000 records. With great passion and talent, the band is standing strong, and is working on a new project under their label, Powerslave Records.

Mark Herman: Vocals
Mecha 1: Vocals, Percussion
Melodica Mikey: Guitar
Clint Eastwood: Bass
Kevin The Guch : Drums
Da Hermit: DJ


2) Insolence is a Death Metal band from Germany. They formed in 2005 by Stephan (Vocals), Wolli (Guitars), Frank (Guitars), Rene (Bass) and Alex (Drums).

They released their debut album "Destroying Your Dream" in 2005.

3) Insolence was a thrash metal band from Germany.

4) Insolence is a black metal band from Indonesia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insolence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.