There are multiple artists named Insomnia:

1) Insomnia is an influential Norwegian improvisation group originally formed by Arild Kristoffersen in 1981. They have moved from variations of psychedelic rock to free jazz and noise and still perform regularly. Today, still very close to its original line-up, the group consists of Knut Erik Sandli, Øyvind Hellner, Espen Ursin Oddvar Karlsmyr, Terje Lerstad (who has written music for the BBC orchestra among others), Sergi Massó, and Øystein Sandsdalen out of Le Corbeau and Serena Maneesh.

2) Insomnia is a minimal dark ambient project, who has released 3 CD-Rs on Nothingness Records. This project has been discontinued, but its 3 albums, (forming a trilogy) are now available for streaming and download on Archive.org.

3) Insomnia is an experimental / electronic project: "1 of 27 Reasons to..." are 27 songs based on the Fruity Loops shareware. That was the first concept but then, Insomnia / Leon has changed his mind and some samples from computer games, classic music and movie soundtracks were added to the compositions. Finally, guitars and vocals were added (both recorded live). All the "reasons", despite various tempos, are trying to catch this "stuffy" and a little bit psychedelic touch.

4) Insomnia was a four-piece psychedelic / screamo band from Rīga, Latvia formed in year 2005. Band have gone through many changes between members; played many shows around Latvia - including almost all open-air events, such as Fono Fest, Zvērā and other; recorded studio recording sessions - the last of them at Hodila Records in Valmiera, Latvia in year 2008; performed with such foreign bands as Abduktio, Disney and many other. Insomnia split up in June 2009, the last line-up consisted of: Jānis Vasarietis (vocals), Mārtiņš Kampāns (guitar), Ieva Strazdiņa (bass) and Hārdijs Rudajs (drums).
Band members are currently related with Latvian independent acts Place of Fear, Magnolla, Mango, Seim, Gaserata and other. Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/bezmiegs

5) Insomnia is a Russian melodic black metal band.

6) Insomnia was a Finnish thrash metal band. Before this name they were known as Mengele.

7) Insomnia was a breakbeat / house styled duo from the UK.

8) Insomnia is a Greek darkwave band, formed in 1988 in Athens. Originally they were called Isolated Figures, dropped-out this name in 1989 for Insomnia. Disbanded in 1993. Their debut and only album, Days Of Alcyone, was recorded and test-pressed for Warner Music in 1992, but was never actually released due to dispute between the band and the label.

9) Insomnia is a Polish death metal / doom metal / avantgarde metal band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Insomnia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.