Instant Suppression – one of the most original and impressive Russian Modern Metal bands, was formed back in September 2005. In early band's years (2005-2007) Instant Suppression had began to form its own unique “South-Russian” sound, making aggressive and technical, but melodic and atmospheric music in the same time, mixing different genres of modern metal and alternative music.

Instant Suppression's music can be described as something like "Progressive Modern Metal" with a lot of electronic deviations, influences of modern extreme bands, elements of deathcore and melodic death metal. Music is influenced by Soilwork, In Flames, Arch Enemy, Dark Tranquillity, Children Of Bodom, Mnemic, Meshuggah, Behemoth, Dimmu Borgir, Scar Symmetry, Dream Theater, Ram-Zet, Deadlock, Killswitch Engage, Chimaira, All Shall Perish, Thy Disease, Dead By April, Enter Shikari. 

During 2006-2008 years some members' changes happened in the band. Now band has the strongest line-up consisted of professional musicians with a lot of studio and concert experience.

Since 2005 Instant Suppression is regularry performing more and more impressing live gigs in different Russian cities (Rostov-on-Don, Krasnodar, Anapa, Novorossiysk, Taganrog etc.), slowly becoming one of the most promising and awesome Modern Metal acts in Russia. Band had shared the stage with such bands as All Shall Perish and Deadlock in their Russian shows. Also Instant Suppression took participation in such Russian metal fests as “Mettallurgia”, “Nord-Ost”, “February's Window” etc.

First significant record of the band was "To the Back of Beyond" EP, recorded and self-produced in February, 2007. This EP was released independently with a limited amount of 300 copies that were totally sold in a few months. In 2008 band released 2 internet-singles “Fake” and “De|com|pression”, that had a great promotion and were heard by a thousands of metalheads all over Russia and Europe.
Also Instant Suppression won a first prize in “Rostov Alternative Rock Competition” in Metal category in April 2007 and took first place in Metal-Radio's Band Contest in January 2009 (with over 500 other Russian bands participating). Band has several articles and interviews in press (“Metalizer”, “Dark City” and others) and rotation in Russian Metal Radio.

Right now Instant Suppression finished work on the long-awaited full-length album that named “Domain.Nation”. Album was mixed and mastered by one of the best Russian sound engineers Alexander Karelin, and released by DF Music Organization in Russia. Also band is looking for a label to release it worldwide. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Instant+Suppression">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.