Interface is an electronic music act based on Long Island, NY. It was founded in 1993 by Eric Eldredge (keyboards, sequences, and vocals). Its career has been lined with a steady output of songs and dance remixes for other artists and an active tour schedule (Eric is joined onstage by live additional musicians). Each of its albums display a blend of various styles of electronic music, most notably trance, synthpop, electro-industrial and aggrotech, with a strong sense of melody and songwriting. Interface is currently signed to Nilaihah Records in the USA. The defunct Tinman label released the first two albums.

Other artists named Interface could refer to:

1. A Christian rock band based in Ft. Myers, Florida.

2. A Hollywood-based remixer, producer, and sound designer. Remix artist Julian Synne contributed several remixes in the 1990's for Cleopatra Records, mostly for it's extensive line of tribute albums, as well as a widely downloaded remake of New Order's "True Faith".

3. An late 80's/early 90's dance group from Holland that had minor club hits in Europe such as "Human Cry" and "Plastic Age"

4. A British jungle/Drum N Bass DJ.

5. An improvisational one-off music project, who released the album "Swank" in 2001.

6. An Electronic-Experimental band from México, with two official albums: Automata 1987 / Dictadura 1989
INTERFACE are: Roxana Flores and Samir Menaceri

7. An Slovak melodic death metal band with progressive influences, on last.fm can be find like Interface (SVK)

8. A German berlin school, trance and smooth jazz project on Innovative Communication that existed from 1992 to 1998. А band of Michael Gross and Marcel Thebach until 1993. Marcel Thebach leaves Interface for his own releases on IC making it a Michael Gross solo project.

9. A two-piece Belfast grindcore project. Currently, they have four releases. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Interface">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.