InterregnuM - studio project plays in the style of Grandiose Sympho Black Metal (recently began to attend the elements of Industrial). The project started its work in Kazakhstan, in the city Kostanay. All recorded albums, and all new material was recorded there. Now Michael Santis moved to Russia, in St. Petersburg and continues to work there.
The first page of the history of the InterregnuM project was written in the year 2005, when Michael Santis – the author of the project, being tired of the misunderstanding and quarrels within the different musical groups, got the idea of its creation as a way to start a solo career. 
Schmidt was more than fond of industrial style music writing but he realized his vocation was in symphonic music. Thus, he started working on it, devoting all of his desire, soul, and time expressing himself through music, combining symphonic music with hard guitar’s sounds and drum rhythms.  
There were several compositions written that inspired the author to go on. “Working on those songs I found myself” – Michael said sharing his thoughts. Later on he involved Djavanshir Gusienov  as a vocalist in the project. But during their joint work on the album it turned out that the members of the band had different ideas when it came to assigning different roles and responsibilities. It all reflected in their further breakup. Michael continued working as a vocalist alone.
The album was recorded at “Tobil-03 Records” studio. It became possible with the great support of Roman Savin. The album turned out to be very attractive and interesting through the bright union of wind and stringed symphonic instruments. The cover for the album was designed and at the very last moment InterregnuM was chosen as the title for it.
 “I’ve been working too hard on the album itself, so I’d completely forgotten to think about its name”- Michael says. The release of the album took place on the 18th of April 2007. And it was obvious the name “Light in the Darkness” spoke in itself. 

There were still no new members coming into the project. 

As soon as the album appeared InterregnuM got its first fans, stimulating the author to develop his solo career. Having made a small break, the musician started working at the new album. New ideas and images were based on his own past life, fantasies and thoughts. In February 2008 Philip Yeliseev, one of Michael’s friends became a guitar player for the project. The work on the project was started. As soon as all the instrumental parts were recorded, text writing came in its turn. The hard work was achieved by writing texts at nights and recording during the daytime. Roman Savin again provided his studio for technical support. Presentation of the new album took place on the 5th of June of 2008. The album got its name – EvangeliuM. 
After the album appeared, taking into consideration all the plans for the project and the fans’ desires, it was decided to shoot a video clip. The song for the video – My spirit is eternal - was chosen unanimously. Its release was planned for the 28th of August, 2008. It was the last work done in collaboration with Yeliseev. His passive role in the development of the project became the reason for the breakup. 
Some time passed and Vyacheslav Alenkin, a person who played an important supportive role in the first album’s creation. With him passed the work on writing new songs. He also acted as a session musician.
Michael Santis are working at a number of new songs, promising their fans new and better musical works with marvelous sounds. This is only the very initial page of the project’s history, the future promises a lot with its new ideas and new releases.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Interregnum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.