Fusing elements of rock, dance, industrial and metal, Interlock have created the new sound of alternative music.

The London based cyber metal sextet boasts a considerable fanbase of loyal audiences, both across the UK and overseas, via a discography comprising of two split albums, two independent releases, numerous compilation CD appearances and now a full length album together with a remix EP on Anticulture Records.

The band have performed nationwide with such acts as Mortiis, Sikth, Mendeed, Queen Adreena, Susperia, Electric Eel Shock, Raging Speedhorn, Senser, Rico, Antiproduct and many other prominent UK & international names, alongside attracting press coverage ranging from BBC Radio 1, Kerrang!, Metal Hammer, Terrorizer, Hard N Heavy [France], Rock Sound and Total Rock Radio through to mainstream publications including The Guardian and The Daily Mail.

Starting life in 1997, founding members John Tyrell (guitars / programming) and Syan (bass) were driven by the need to break the mould encasing the alternative scene and create genuinely new music, unrestricted by genres or preconceived boundaries. This ethos has continued throughout the group’s history to become its raison d’etre - innovate / create / evolve. The amalgamation of influences and bridging of musical styles has intensified and grown over the years, as has Interlock's ranks: Hal Sinden (vocals), Christina Gajny (vocals), Static (guitars) and Joe Butterworth (drums).

In early 2005 the band gained further attention through bettering their previous years’ results in the Terrorizer Reader’s Polls, being voted ‘best unsigned band’ (2004 awarded to Akercocke) and with Hal winning ‘most shaggable male artist’. This was compounded by the decision to sign to the now renowned independent label, Anticulture Records.

The band’s first full length album crisis//reinvention was released to the UK in May of that year to yet more critical acclaim:

Kerrang! magazine think the debut "Edgy and powerful... Excellent!"

Terrorizer magazine believe "Interlock combine both technique and genres in a naturally schizophrenic way... The result is an original and powerful sonic battleground." classing the album as “…a storming debut”.

Powerplay magazine proclaimed it "Heart wrenchingly emotional and powerful at the same time, Interlock could be huge if they carry on like this."

Now, at the beginning of 2006, Interlock have moved from strength to strength to create a promising future ahead of them...

Having released their skinless remixes EP on February 6th, containing exclusive remixes by (among others) John Callaghan (Ex-Warp), Colt (formerly LWeD) and French digital hardcore artists Shane Cough, the band are soon to embark on the eagerly awaited tour of Europe, whilst the accompanying promo video is currently being aired on such music channels as MTV & Scuzz.

Press response has for the EP has been formidable, with Kerrang! heralding the release as “very heavy and hair-raisingly hostile… a wild, diverse and sonically punishing ride”.

Whilst live4metal approved it as “a welter of coruscating noise, electronically enhanced and bruising to the core… ‘skinless remixes' is up there with all of the greats”.

Meanwhile, Terrorizer magazine has been quoted, with reference to Interlock live performances, as saying the band “…have it all pulled together” using “…genres and sub-genres layered over one another to create towering industrial soundscapes”, whilst readers have again voted Hal as ‘most shaggable male artist’ and Christina in 7th place in the ‘most shaggable female artist’ category of the annual Reader’s Polls.

It is almost impossible to pigeon-hole a band quite so diverse as Interlock. As their name suggests, they bring to their music a vast range of styles and influences, mixing into a strong, unique and cohesive musical force that continues to walk a step ahead of its peers. This is what the future sounds like. 

Unfortunately the band split in mid 2008, without releasing their much anticipated second album. 

Hal Sinden (Vocals) and Joe Butterworth (drums) have gone on to found  metal band, Talanas. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Interlock">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.