Mutual mass slaughter, by stripping or peeling the skin from the bone.

An inordinate abortion amidst multitudes of stagnant euphonious, a quintet of cadaverous proportions forged to intemperately emit combusted epitaphs of abolitionistic magnitudes. Diarrheic engendered dark guttural death metal hailing from the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. Forged in The Blood Pitt, an abysmal chasm of disquietude and suffering. Ascending to the periphery of this toxic sphere three earth cycles ago, only to annihilate and cause disgust among the ignominious offscourings of humanity.Five canticle documentations, Prognosticate the Decrepitude, extricated, abridging primordial delineations, sojourning beneath stratums of humanity’s putrefaction, premonitions of Armageddon, its tentacles pursing extensively.The initial pith of Internecine Excoriation was captured at its earliest and most lucid, exposed form with the release of their first demo ‘Prognosticate the Decrepitude’. Five tracks of dark, guttural death metal had been convoked and captured in an insalubrious manner. Overseen, tainted, mixed and mastered by the abstracted, yet extremely professional hands and mind of Aphotic at Sullen Sounds. A mutual visualisation was attained and among the PTD scriptures and aural documentation is the eradication of hope, pulverised in the face, through proverbial lamentations of graphic reality sought through and whetted by the species’ perversity, observing the fermenting malodor of humanity through the global looking glass. Year past since PTD’s release and another 9 songs have been sketched and border on being fully constructed into their full piece. Three of which have been emitted live. A continuation of the same horrid vein of PTD remains apparent, if not more grotesque. Two years after the insemination, conception and birthing, the nurtured Internecine Excoriation fetus began the process of exposing the blackened hordes to their obscene live cremations. A pure purging of five demoniacal exorcised mortals. Over the past 29 months 13 shows have been played over a sporadic period, supporting such famed international acts as Deicide (USA) Disgorge (USA),Napalm Death (UK) Skinless (USA), Dawn of Azazel (NZ) and top line Australian extreme artists such as Psycroptic, Astriaal, Fuck…I’m Dead, The Day Everything Become Nothing, Excruciate, MSI, Darklord and more. Currently, the intention to remain dormant live reigns. For now, an indulgent blood thirst to write and create tales of morbidly heinous pleasure must be quenched.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Internecine+Excoriation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.