Interior may refer to one of the following acts (ordered by date of inception):

1) Dutch band from Amsterdam (formed ca.1979).  This group had 2 releases, Bizarre Disco (Plurex 45, 1979)  and a self-titled 12" (Plurex, 1980). Singer Maarten van der Ploeg went on to form Soviet Sex and later Blue Murder and Astral Bodies.

2) A synthpop group from Japan that was active in the 80s.  The members were Eiki Nonaka (野中英紀), Mitsuru Sawamura (沢村満), Daisuke Hinata (日向大介), and Tsukasa Betto (別当司).  As well as albums released in Japan they had an album on new age label Windham Hill.

3) A metal band from Poland was started at the begining of 2004. After many changes in the line-up the band was looking for a vocalist. July and August of that year was a time of intense work on the new material and the begining of the recording session in the Milejów Studio. At about that time the band welcomes a new member - Hubert, former member of the today-non-existant death metal band Catalepsy, as the new vocalist. After almost a year of silence the band confronts the public on their first gig on 12th October 2004 in "Hades" club in Lublin with black metal Abusiveness, and death metal Convent. Since that time the band plays many gigs and soon finishes ther demo tape. January 2005 is the time when the demo is released. The demo consists of 4 songs + Blinded by Fear cover originally written by At The Gates recorded live at one of the gigs. Interior play a mix of THRASH and death. It's members were the organisers of the local "CRASH TEST" festival, which was later discontinued due to financial problems. In April 2005 Interior recorded a cover of Carcass's Keep on Rotting in The free World which was released on a Carcass Tribute, released three months later. After more than a year of concerts and rehersals HUBERT (vocals) leaves the band, and GRZESIEK arrives in his place. The band begun to work on the material for their first LP.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Interior">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.