Internal Bleeding are pioneers of the style of brutal death metal called "slam", based in Long Island, New York. Their sound has paved the way for a whole generation of brutal death metal and deathcore bands who put heavy, groove laden riffs in the forefront of their music.

Internal Bleeding was formed in 1991 with a short-lived original lineup of guitarist Chris Pervelis, bassist Tom Slobowski, vocalist Brian Richards, drummer Bill Tolley, and guitarist Anthony Miola; Slobowski and Richards were quickly replaced by John Colucco and Eric Wigger, respectively. Shortly after the band recorded its first demo, another lineup overhaul took place, with Wallace Milton taking over lead vocals and Brian Hobbie claiming the bass slot. A second demo titled Invocation of Evil was released by the small Wild Rags label in 1993; Milton then left the group, and drummer Tolley temporarily took over vocal duties for the 1994 EP Perpetual Degradation. A permanent replacement for Milton was found in Frank Rini, and the band's performance at the 1994 Milwaukee Metalfest helped get them a deal with Pavement Records. Their first nationally distributed album, Voracious Contempt, appeared in 1995 and achieved some success in the metal underground. After the follow-up, 1997's The Extinction of Benevolence, further lineup shifts occurred: Rini departed temporarily replaced by Ryan Schemmenti (Disfigured, Gilgongo), with full time vocal duties handed over to Ray Lebron (Immortal Suffering), and Miola's place was taken by Guy Marchais (Pyrexia, Suffocation). Thus reconstituted, Internal Bleeding issued its third proper album, Driven To Conquer, in 1999...

...2011
After a long hiatus to settle their post-Internal Bleeding careers, raise families and settle down a bit, the core of the classic lineup is back with the addition of Keith Devito (Pyrexia, Catastrophic) on vocals, and Jason Liff on bass. Internal Bleeding returns to play shows and write new material that will hopefully end up on a release. Current full line up: Bill Tolley - drums, Brian Hobbie - guitar, Chris Pervelis - guitar, Jason Liff - bass, Keith DeVito - vocals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Internal+Bleeding">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.