A leader in any true metal fan's book, Internal Nightmare are a devastating sight to behold!

Formed 2007 in Melbourne, Australia – Internal Nightmare are the result of a collective passion for aggressive, groove-laden music with avoidances to current (detrimental) trends that seem to be destroying the quality of modern metal.

Taking cues from legendary acts such as Machine Head, Lamb Of God, Pantera, Unearth, Death, Cataract and a multitude of other influences - the band form songs into cohesive, well rounded and memorable pieces, intent on providing the listener with both the headcrushing aggressiveness and pure dynamic flow that often seems to be overlooked in the Australian music scene today.

March 2009 saw the release of Internal Nightmare’s debut promotional disc (containing live hits Closed Loop Of Creation, Birth and The Term Is Frustration?) via web-based mediums/self distribution to public acclaim.

Recorded and mixed at Legion Studio Productions by Julian Renzo and mastered at Crystal Mastering by Joe Carra, the debut release from Internal Nightmare is an untamed beast, viciously forcing the listener into an unapologetic state of toe-tapping aggression - with its riff-based guitar work, powerhouse drumming, commanding vocals and heaving low end, this release is only the tip of the iceberg in respect to the band's overall sound and impact.

Heavily canvassing their home state of Victoria (with frequent shows across the country), Internal Nightmare has rallied to become a dominating force in today’s metal scene - playing alongside some of Aus & NZ’s biggest metal acts inc: THE BEZERKER, ALARUM, FRANKENBOK, TRUTH CORRODED, EARTH, SCAR THE SURFACE, THE DAY EVERYTHING BECAME NOTHING, HUMONIC, 1 SHOT KILL, SEPARATIST, LYNCHMADA, IN MALICE'S WAKE, JACK THE STRIPPER, HATCHET DAWN, DEATH AUDIO and DAWN OF AZAZEL at some of Australia’s most respected venues.

Mid-2009, a video was shot for The Term Is Frustration? due to premier Mid-2010 via Stoptime Media's ‘Melbourne Metal Unleashed’ DVD - a short horror film, interspersed with some of Melbourne's best metal acts video clips.

Internal Nightmare also appeared on various compilation discs throughout '09 (Welkin Entertainment's 'Euphony Fusion III', Blunt Mag's 'Loud Noises'), as well as a humerous slot on the ABC network's Spicks & Specks, which saw the band perform to approximately 2 million viewers.
All this between extensive local and interstate touring, airplay on one of the internet’s fastest growing all-metal webcast stations - MeltedMetal.com - and with the new EP 'SEGREGATION' due late June 2010, Internal Nightmare are well on their way to becoming an unstoppable force within the metal realm.

Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/internalnightmare <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Internal+Nightmare">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.