Hold Up! ...Hip-Hop has been a major force for Internal Quest – the emcee, producer and engineer. Growing up in the streets of New Jersey’s largest city, Newark, Terry Booker was born to be in the limelight. Influenced by the Notorious B.I.G., Terry borrowed the Brooklynite’s first rap alter ego of Quest and ever since then Terry embodied the skill and potential of a gifted rapper.  

At the young age of 6 years old Internal Quest began to play drums that lasted until high school.  Blessed with the confidence to create music Internal Quest, or simply known as Quest, put his gifts into the form of music and started to produce and rap.  When Quest turned 17 years old he began working with local rappers in Brick City; although some of his affiliations fell through Quest put his future into his own hands and formed his own opportunities.  Internal Quest decided to further pursue audio engineering as a career by enrolling into the Institute of Audio Research (IAR) in Manhattan, NYC.  With the constant support of his mother, Quest graduated from IAR with a 3.8 GPA. 

Hard work paid off, in 2010, Internal Quest is now the lead artist and audio engineer for Jersey Sound Lab Recordings in Newark, NJ.  Legendary Hip-Hop artist El Da Sensei, of the Artifacts, has recorded at Jersey Sound Lab along with many up & coming local unsigned artists.  Jersey Sound Lab is a group of young hip-hop inspired rappers, singers and producers that come together to preserve hip-hop and make quality productions through mixtapes and compilations.  

In the summer of 2010, Internal Quest dropped an international mix cd titled “Flight 973 to Sydney” with Australia’s #1 Urban DJ - DJ Nino Brown that reached the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Canada, Australia and other countries.  Internal Quest has worked with numerous artists across the globe and appeared on various recording projects like Germany’s own B-Doub on their “Food for Thought” project that features Internal Quest and El Da Sensei’s track “Talk of the City”.

Internal Quest continues to unleash raw talent by releasing group compilations, mixtapes and solo projects.   In January 2011, Internal Quest was featured as a Producer and Artist on DJ Nino Brown’s chart-topping “Blazin” compilation, debuting at #3 on Urban Charts and #5 on Compilation by the Australia Recording Industry Association (ARIA).  Also, Quest is featured on JAPAN’s “Seasons’ End-Moment‘s In Life” with track “Come Around” featuring El Da Sensei - it can be bought in stores in JAPAN and Amazon.de, among other locations. In between producing, engineering and collaborating, Internal Quest is currently recording his debut album, set to be released in 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/INTERNAL+QUEST">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.