INTERNAL CORROSION is a Los Angeles based metal band that combines elements of thrash, speed, 80's and early 90's metal in their music. Their energetic and intricate riffing has musicians and fans using comparison to such legendary bands as Metallica, Megadeth, Testament & Slayer. The band was formed in 2006 and immediately recorded their first demo which caught the attention of Los Angeles based Hardcore/Punk label Basement Records. Label owner Chuck Dietrich was interested in including the band in an upcoming project. In 2007 the label released a compilation album titled "Wrong Side Of The Trax Vol. 2". The comp included a demo version of Internal Corrosion's thrash metal epic "Running Of The Bulls". On this record the band shared the spotlight along side fellow metal/hardcore bands such as TOTOMOSHI, STRENGTH BEHIND TEARS, LINE UP YOUR LIES, ASLUT & THE FIRE THE FLOOD, It was clear from their performance that Internal Corrosion's sound was both familiar and fresh. At an "Affliction" event held at the Honda Center (Anaheim, CA) in 2007 they passed a demo to martial arts expert JOSH BARNETT. Barnett who is a huge fan of metal immediately loved Corrosion's raw edge and has been a supporter of the band since. Barnett has helped promote the band on various MMA websites, his own Myspace page, and through various interviews. In 2008, Josh hosted a radio show on XM Radio where he played Internal Corrosion's brutal thrasher "Dead Rising". The bands music was welcomed by metal fans. Other notable radio spins have included regular play on the live 365 "Thrash Unlimited" show, S.F. Radio Show "Rampage Radio", radio play on U.K radio 93.7 ExpressFM Portsmouth, England and a slew of podcasts from metal heads around the world (all this without the release of an "official" album). In the summer of 2008, the band financed the recording, mastering, pressing & promotion of the 10 tracked full length onslaught "No Reason To Live…No Reason To Die" which was to be released in January of 2009. Before the album was even completed they were contacted by such press outlets as Pit Magazine, California Underground Music, Metal Edge, Hmp magazine (Poland) and Metal Maniacs. The buzz behind the first full length was building. As is their trademark the band continued to play shows in the L.A area. After a few shows at West Hollywood's own Relax Bar, the band caught the interest of Southern Lord Records general manager Eddie Solis. Solis quickly became a supporter of the band. He put I.C on shows with Municipal Waste, 16(relapse records) and his own band "It's Casual". The boys in Corrosion kept busy after the release of their debut, after playing dozens of L.A area shows in support of their record the band decided to play shows out of state. They had some notable gigs in Nevada and Arizona where they delivered their brand of L.A thrash. After getting a taste of the road the band is looking to do a national tour in support of their album. The guys will stay busy as usual, working on material for their follow up album, playing shows, and organizing a national tour. Internal Corrosion will continue to thrill audiences wherever they play. Just ask some of the bands they have shared the stage with: JOEY BELLADONNA (ANTHRAX), Death Riders (Neil Turbin, Anthrax), 16, PHILM (Dave Lombardo, Slayer),FLATTBUSH, WARBRINGER, CROM, & MUNICIPAL WASTE just to name a few. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Internal+Corrosion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.