Intestinal Strangulation is a Brutal Death Metal band from Whittier, California, USA.

Intestinal Strangulation formed in mid 2003. We sucked. Bottom line. There were too many problems with musicianship and the priorities of the band members. We struggled on, but separated for a couple of months in 2004. Original founding members Damien (guitarist/vocals) and Jesus (drums) reformed the band. After a few more line up changes we have become a solid trio with the addition of Nick (bass/vocals). 

Intestinal Strangulation have shared the stage thus far with metal heavy weights such as: Aborted, Arsis, Behemoth, Cannibal Corpse, Cathedral, Cattle Decapitation, Cephalic Carnage, Crematorium, Cryptopsy, Decrepit Birth, Disgorge, Incantation, Misery Index, Necrophagist, Neuraxis, Phobia, Sadus, Samael, Strapping Young Lad, Suffocation, The Meatshits, Vehemence, as well as various other talented bands from all around our local area and surrounding states. 

Intestinal Strangulation has several shirt designs available, a 3 song demo from 2003 and a 7 song demo entitled Ectopic Gestation from 2004. Our debut album is entitled Pathological Brutalistic Fermentation and was printed for distribution and sale in 2006. All of this has been done on our own. We are an independent, self financed band. 

Intestinal Strangulation have toured several times in the past 2 years and have big plans for 2007! We have signed to Prodisk (Canada) and we are also working out a European release at the moment. We are getting ready for our upcoming summer tour. It will be an extensive 40 show tour through out North America. We're planning to desing a new shirt for the tour and hope to sell through the last of our debut album as well. We hope to have our follow up album out before the end of the year and already have a few new songs line up for it. We will be playing a new song or two on tour this summer so keep a listen for them. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Intestinal+Strangulation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.