There is more than one artist with this name:

1) The Spanish Intolerance is one of the first truly DIY old school hardcore bands from Spain with an active attitude. Formed in the northern province of Asturias, in the city of Xixón/Gijón, their lyrics were higly elaborated political texts far from cliches, raw and direct. In terms of music, nothing produced in Spain had sounded as hardcore until Intolerance's first ep, leaving a landmark in the Spanish hardcore scene and creating new paths for the bands to come. Their music and attitude is still persistent today in what is left of the DIY hardcore / Spanish punk scene.

2) The italian Intolerance project born in September 1983 in Cuneo, a small town in the montains near Torino, by an idea of Luca Musso, Marco Marongiu and Paolo Chiotasso, all musicians orbiting around the various high school of music expecially SMET (electronic music studio in Torino) founded by Enore Zaffiri. At the vocals was Raffaella Risso. Their cultural landmarks and music influences were Suicide, DAF, Throbbing Gristle, German electronic music scene of the years '60s/'70s, composers as Luciano Berio/Stockhausen and the new international Post-Punk/New Wave scene of the period. The instrumentation used in the two first years of activity of the band (which is used in this album ) was Roland JX-3P, Roland Juno-106, Roland Sh-101 and Drumatrix TR-606. Between the end of 1983 and 1984 the band played in various venues and squat (as the historic Victor Charlie, in Pisa). In this period the band was menaged by Ivan Rosso and Leonardo Borghese, both 'semi-official' members of the band. The last one, Leonardo Borghese, was the "deus ex machina", founder of the independent label "Suoni dal Profondo Nord" (Notes from the Deep North), who produced the first Intolerance demo and other bands of the same town/area. Intolerance also appeared in split tape compilation enclosed on 'Amen' fanzine and "VM" compilation LP. At the end of the '80s the band split up.

3) Intolerance is a metal band from Czech Republic, formed in 1978.

4) The spanish old school death metal band Intolerance formed in Zaragoza in 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Intolerance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.