2006 - Foundation
Into my houses was found by Tomi Tupiini (Goathemy) during spring 2006 and the main idea was to re-arrange old, unreleased metal-songs for performance of several vocalists. Tupiini introduced the idea to his friends Tommi Niemi (Ikinae) and Teija Ruohoniemi (Goathemy) and they joined the project at summer 2006. The third singer, Jussi Virtala (The Lust I Seek) joined in at fall 2006 as a result of drunken shouting at the opening of study year.

2007 - Some forsaken ones
The recordings started later at fall 2006 and finally 1.9.2007 "Some forsaken ones" was released. All songs were originally written to other bands like Ikinae and Entrophia, but now these unreleased songs finally saw the daylight. All the songs were recorded in a dirty student-box and the budget for this project, excluding the amount of consumed alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, was null. The mixing and the sound was arranged by Janne Ruohoniemi at his home studio.

2008 - Some forsaken ones, part 2
The first demo was not supposed to be sent to any review-sites, because of the project's null budget, but however at autumn 2007 "Some forsaken ones" was sent to couple of metal sites for review and for everyone's surprise it mainly got good grades. The original idea for the second demo was to record whole new songs, but when the archives were opened once again, straight sequel to "Some forsaken ones" was decided to be made. Recordings of the "Some forsaken ones, part 2" were almost identical to the previous one: The budget remained null, and only a student apartment where recordings took place was different. The recordings started at autumn 2007 and ended at fall 2008. "Some forsaken ones, part 2" was released 28.6.2008. Compared to part 1 the music is a little darker and rougher, once again the mixing and the sound was arranged by Janne Ruohoniemi at his home studio.

2009 - LIVE-lineup
We have made one great step ahead and I personally wouldn’t believe that we could ever go live with this project, but now line-up for live performances is ready and we’re preparing ourselves for possible gigs in 2010. The following group of seven is now working hard to make the new challenge real:

Tomi Tupiini – Guitar, Vocals
Tommi Niemi – Vocals
Jussi Virtala – Vocals
Teija Ruohoniemi – Vocals
Janne Ruohoniemi – Guitar 
Antti Väliniemi – Bass
Rami Rinne – Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Into+my+houses">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.