Into The Woods may refer to
1. female-fronted rock/metal band
2. a Melbourne folk band
3. an international collaboration of snowsport instructor musicians

It may also be an incorrect artist tag for a musical by Stephen Sondheim.

1. Formed in 2006 by Mike Watchorn and Alex 'Gooders' Goodwin from the ashes of previous projects. Over the course of the first year ITW gathered members for the remaining positions in the band and got down to writing, rehearsing and promotion ahead of its release.

By the summer of 2007 ITW were finally ready for the stage, and with a well received debut show and a few magazine live reviews under the belt the band had already started to make a mark in the unsigned UK circuit. 

Throughout their first year of shows and promotion, various members were in and out of the recording studio on a regular basis to piece together all the material for the self titled debut mini-album. With all the usual rock band curses, the album went through complications (holding it back from its originally planned synchronisation with the first string of shows) and became a physical form in the fall of 2008, in time for the group’s successful first full UK tour.

2009 saw the band embarking on further promotion and many larger shows including a double performance at the UK's Bloodstock Open Air Festival in Derby.


2. Into the Woods are a Melbourne folk band from another time… Likened to Wilco, Midlake and Okkervil River, the band’s folk sound results from slight surprises on traditional formulas. Musically, four-part harmonies fill out classic chord progressions, country moments mutate into big band anthems, and all seven members wander the stage like minstrels, switching instruments as they go. Lyrically, the songs consider morality, mortality, loss and redemption; all of this tempered by the character-driven conventions of true folk music.

Formed in 2006, Into the Woods have played with some of Melbourne’s finest including Little Red, Institut Polaire and Grizzly Jim Lawrie. The band are currently putting some finishing gloss on their debut EP ‘The Willow Tree’.


3. The band first assembled in late 2010 when members found themselves bound together by a cold Canadian winter. Forced to reside in a former WW2 Prisoner of War camp and scientific research station; nights were spent chronicling the fate of the previous inhabitants and the current flock of victims. In the first winter some of the popular songs heard included, Nazi Zombies, FPC (French Pennington Criminal), AB-original vs. Mu-Ga-B and Dirty Slut. The aggressive nature of the songs was often attributed to underlying tensions within the band that remain to this day. The band went on hiatus during the middle part of 2011 because of logistical issues regarding practice sessions, only to reform later at the beginning of the following winter. On reliving the old material, serious consideration was given to a reunion tour, which remains unrealised. Some new songs were written regarding the new living environment and characters. There may be a gathering of members in mid 2012.....
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Into+the+Woods">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.