There are several bands called Intro.

1. Intro (R&B group)
The trio Intro was comprised of lead singer Kenny Greene, Jeff Sanders and Clinton 'Buddy' Wike. The group's name is actually an acronym, standing for Innovative New Talent Reaching Out.

When the group released their self-titled debut album on Atlantic Records in 1993, they offered a strong urban contemporary sound that featured a polished, yet neo-soul vibe. The album scored several successful tracks that did well on the charts and helped the group's debut album go gold. In 1993, the group released 'Love Thang,' 'Let Me Be The One,' and 'Come Inside,' all of which broke the top 30 in the R&B charts. 'Come Inside,' the most successful of the tracks, reached #9 on the R&B charts and topped off at #33 on the Hot 100. The album's final single, 'Ribbon In The Sky,' was a remake of Stevie Wonder's track and managed to reach #11 on the R&B charts.

In 1995, the group released a second album, New Life, which was meant to reflect upon a new era for the group. Unfortunately, the album failed to match the first album's success despite its maturity. Nevertheless, it still had several charting singles, with 'Never Again,' 'Funny How Time Flies,' and 'Feels Like The First Time,' all making it onto the R&B charts.

The major driving force behind the group Intro was their lead singer, Kenny Greene. Greene acted as producer on every single song on the group's album New Life, and worked heavily with many other artists in the industry. Greene is given writing credentials for tracks by Mary J. Blige, Soul 4 Real, Will Smith, 98 degrees and many more. His talents did not go unrecognized as he tied for the ASCAP's award for R&B Songwriter of the Year. Unfortunately, Greene passed away on October 1, 2001 due to complications from AIDS.

2. Intro (Synth-pop duo)
Intro was a shortlived synth-pop duo consisting of Jacqui Brookes (of Shox and Siam) and Jimme O'Neill (of Fingerprintz and The Silencers. They released two singles in 1983 and then dissolved.

3. Intro to A State Of Trance Yearmix 2006 by Armin Van Buuren. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Intro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.