There are about 3 bands and 1 hip-hop artist so far that go by the name of INTRICATE.

1. INTRICATE (hardcore/noiscore)

An early to mid 90s band band from Hilden/Germany. They were often said to be the German Neurosis. In fact their music seemed to be quite influenced by the American post-metal legends. 

They had two longplay records out. The second LP – [va:l] – has a very tense, atmospheric sound and was published through Century Media in 1993.

Oli of Hammerhead played drums.

2. INTRICATE (Electronica / Experimental / Electro )

An experimental/electronica duo from Switzerland.
"Thomas Federspiel(*1973) und Fabian Stübi(*1972) are the abstract duo since 1994. During the past eleven years, they have together or each on ist own realised various arts and music projects. They have drawn the essence of their work into music, released under the name of INTRICATE on Spezialmaterial, four releases so far. Other projects were completed with Mark Broom (London) and released on Speaker Attack. In 2004, INTRICATE was commissioned by Pro Helvetia for a composition. www.intricate.ch"
(taken from http://www.myspace.com/intricatetheband)

3. INTRICATE (metal/core/metal)

A metalcoreband from Latvia.
"Latvian metalcore/metal band “INTRICATE” was founded by Ugis, Gatis and Einars in 2005. For year and a half band played in local underground shows, experienced minor line-up changes, and slowly grew from new, heavy metal inspired alternative band to serious metalcore act. 

In the beginning of 2007 band recorded their first demo and began playing outside their hometown. In the summer band went through its first major line-up change, with Aigars replacing Einars on vocals. Band played two instrumental shows, and spent the rest of the year in rehearsal studio. 

In January 3rd, 2008, a new era for band begins. In 8 months band plays 19 shows all over Latvia, including such prominent Latvian clubs as “Melna Piektdiena” and “Fontaine Palace”, festivals “Zvera”, “Fonofest”, “Fontaine Festival”, receiving mostly positive reviews from fans and critics. “INTRICATE” also won a chance to record a song in “Sound Division Studios”, best recording studio in Baltics, and song “What Is Left” was recorded there. 

Band is now again in rehearsal studio, writing new songs and preparing for the year 2009... 

With “Pantera”, “Killswitch Engage” and “Lamb of God” among their major influences, classic and jazz music education, “INTRICATE” guys play intricate, powerful, dynamic metalcore music with lots of melody, groove and breakdowns perfect for moshing.

INTRICATE's Website >> http://www.intricate.lv"
(taken from http://www.myspace.com/intricatelv2)

4) Intricate (Rap/Hip-Hop)

Intricate is a rapper who made his name with the rap collective Capital 6 in Tallahassee, Florida in 2013. Intricate has since performed several shows in and around the state of Florida and in July 2015, published his first music video, "The Champs". Several of his tracks can be found through the website Soundcloud, where he has amassed a very diverse repetoire of songs. Intricate's rap stylings are influenced by a poetic background; his cadence is somewhat similar to a fast-paced Andre 3 
Stacks.   
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Intricate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.