1). Berlin based Producer, Sounddesigner and DJ - Rough, melancholic, 90s influenced Techno
For some individuals career choices seem to just turn out naturally. Julius Debler aka Introversion is one of them: “I never planned a music career, it just happened. I started creating music in my early childhood.” The 22-year-old Berliner who defines himself as a producer, sound designer and DJ is part of the new breed of young electronic musicians who are right now entering the world of techno, changing it and creating their own unique space on the scene. 


2). Introversion is a doom / black metal band from Switzerland, formed in 2010. In 2011, the band released the demo 'Müde' on tape through Selbstmord Kommando Produktionen, limited to 100 copies.

3). Introversion Software is a UK based company that labels itself "The last of the bedroom programmers". It was founded in 2002 by three friends, Chris Delay, Mark Morris and Thomas Arundel, who met when they were undergraduates at Imperial College London. Their first game Uplink was programmed and designed almost exclusively by Chris, while Mark and Tom handled marketing, materials and the other 'business' elements. Their small initial investment enabled them to buy CD-Rs and printer cartridges. Early copies of the game were hand-made. The company was able to fully make back their investment within a few hours of accepting orders. A large community formed, and the team, along with a new programmer Andy Bainbridge started work on two new games, Darwinia and DEFCON.

Darwinia was released to much critical acclaim and was eventually re-released over Steam on December 14, 2005. Uplink has also since joined Darwinia on Steam, as of summer 2006. On September 29, 2006, Introversion Software launched its third game DEFCON. Shortly after its release, Introversion had measured their bandwidth in terabytes for the first time.

Introversion has a relatively small but growing following and its games are considered cult classics. Both Uplink and Darwinia have a strong modding community. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Introversion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.