Intuition is the name of 1) a synthpop group and 2) a hip hop artist.

1)  Intuition is the duo of vocalist Garrett Miles and programmer Ken Porter. Hailing from sunny Phoenix, Arizona, they have taken the music world by storm with their infectious and unforgettable sound. Fusing together elements of techno-pop, R&B and traditional rock with an electronic backbone, Garrett's smooth and soulful voice gives the synthetic wizardry a warm richness and unique trademark rarely found in today's commercial music world. 

Following the demise of the popular synth act, Intact, in the summer of 2001, Germany raised Ken Porter set out to form a new band with a new vocalist. Ken wanted someone whom shared his vision, focus, and desire to produce music which would cross genre boundaries and appeal to a mainstream audience. After a chance meeting with Garrett, who had been gigging with local Phoenix headliners, World Conspiracy, in mid 2001, the two quickly hit it off and decided to follow their dream together. The chemistry between the two was evident from the start. Garrett brought over several demo versions of songs he was working on and allowed Ken to inject his magic in to them. The rest, as the old cliché says, is history.

2) Raised in North Pole, Alaska, Lee Shaner a.k.a. Intuition, moved to Southern California during his college years to pursue his passion for emceeing. A true 80's baby, Intuition was raised on rap music during it's golden era and has a style that, while firmly rooted in tradition, still manages to be forward thinking and modern. With early influences ranging from bugged out hippy rap like "3 Feet High and Rising," to G-funk classics like "Doggystyle," to the gritty lo-fi hardcore ramblings of "Enter the 36 Chambers," it's safe to say the kid has a solid foundation.

About "Girls Like Me," Intuition states "People that listen to my music will know more about me than they would ever know about me by my talking to them...there's not a single lie on this album, and if someone doesn't like this record, they would probably hate me as a person." This sort of brazen honesty is something of a rarity these days in any musical genre, let alone hip hop, and that honesty alone makes him a musician worth perking your ears for.

www.myspace.com/intuition <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Intuition">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.