There is more than one band with this name:

1) An ebm band based in Los Angeles, CA which is still active

2) A a crusty metal band from Baltimore, MD from  1999-2005 which is no longer together.


1. Inure is an active industrial band that was formed in the summer of 1999, shortly after its founding members Adam Moore and Robert Vogel arrived in Los Angeles. With similar musical influences and tastes in production, the duo sought out to create a sound reminiscent of the "golden era" of industrial dance music, injected with their unique and updated ideas of where they'd like to hear the genre move. With Adam's formal training in Audio Production at the Art Institute of Seattle, and Rob's lengthy programming and musical experience, the two easily began sculpting what became their debut album, "Seemless". Layered with heavy beats, driving basslines, and thick atmospheres, Inure managed to capture exactly what they were looking for – the depth and feel of classic industrial, with forward-thinking production and sound design. After the collapse of their label (Dying Culture) the duo continued performing live shows and officially welcomed Sam P. (PULSE LEGION, IMPERATIVE REACTION) as a permanent 3rd member of Inure. With months of dedicated studio work, the trio's second album Subversive is ready for release on Alfa Matrix in early 2006. Produced by Ted Phelps (IMPERATIVE REACTION), Inure's new material has been kicked up a notch, while still maintaining their trademark sound; Dark, malevolent, heavy and layered, with even more straight-forward imaginative synthwork and punchy beats. With the help of Alfa Matrix, Inure will prove to be a major force and fusing their own sound into the evolution of the electro / industrial genre.

2. Inure was a crusty metal band from Baltimore, MD that played from around 1999-2005, recorded an LP in 2002, broke up, reformed and finally called it quits. Members went on to form the doom/sludge band Moonshine and were also involved in Wake Up On Fire and 57 Octaves Below. Their self-titled LP was finally released in August 2006 by Ministry of Peace Records.

Discography:
9-track Demo 2000(?)
S/T LP 2006, recorded 2002 [Ministry of Peace Records] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Inure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.