There are 7 bands with the name Invictus. The list that follows is based on popularity.

1.)British folk rock and world music duo Invictus. Was founded in London 2005 by André Wall and Norman Wall. They have released ” Out of the Night" (2010)  Petal Pie Song (2012) and " Love for the Dead" (2014). André Wall has composed all songs. The duos main ambition is to perform Globally and to compose music to English 1800-1900-century poems, made by writers such as William Wordsworth, Lord Byron and W.E Henley. Their band name is inspired by the Henley poem ”Invictus”. https://myspace.com/invictussweden 


2.) Scott ‘Invictus’ Davey is an EDM producer from Carrickfergus, Northern Ireland. Producing in several genres, mainly ambient dubstep and drum and bass as well as a touch of progressive house here and there.  (moved, has more plays than others)


3.)Invictus is a French melodic (mostly heavy/power) metal strongly influenced by bands like Edguy or Stratovarius. They started in 1996 under the name of Quark7 and then changed it into Invictus. They released their 1st album "Black Heart" in 2003 and 2nd album "Invictus" in 2009. Official website: http://www.invictus-metal.com/

4.)Progressive Death metal band from Indonesia
INVICTUS was formed in mid 1996 by the remaining members of Genocide after genocide officially disbanded earlier that year. Amri (guitar) Iman (Drums) and Ipunk R.I.P (vocals). In 1997 INVICTUS released a 6 song mini album titled "Beyond". after many line up changes and a firm musical direction, INVICTUS released their first full lenght titled "The Journal of an Inter-Dimensional Time Travelling Ancient Astronaut" in 2004. after yet a few more line up changes, INVICTUS released their second full lenght titled "Destination:Unknown" in 2010. in beetwen albums INVICTUS was always active as a live performing band 
myspace.com/contactinvictus
http://www.reverbnation.com/invictusindonesia

5.)Progressive metal band from Košice (Slovakia) 
http://www.invictus.sk (SK)

6.)Invictus is a Post-Hardcore band. From San Diego, California  
Invictus began in the summer of 2006 when vocalist Jason Webber and bassist Josh Webber, who were already familiar with making music together, added drummer Jason Kruse and guitarist Haydn Hoffman to the line-up. Since then, Invictus has been busy writing, recording, and playing shows, earning themselves a loyal fan base and expanding their audience exponentially. Invictus has recorded three EP's since their forming, and will be releasing a new EP titled "Here's To Curiosity" on January 5th, 2008.

7.)Monumental heathen music from the ancestral past of the european people that speaks through centuries to the collective soul of the european folk. Invictus formed in 2007 by Astaroth-the guitarist and composer of Bornholm. Here he has the name "Sahsnot". This is a sideproject with a different mystical world but from the same ancient heathen roots.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Invictus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.