INVICTRIUS was a Death Metal band circulated around Bruges, Belgium.

Biography:

IN THE SUMMER OF 2004 the members of END OF LIFE were looking for a new recruit to complete their band with aggressive vocals. They found a vocalist in Miguel, and with him came a new name for the band: INVICTRIUS.

They decided to leave their Old School Black Metal style, and instead went for Death Metal. New songs were written, old ones remade, and after a year INVICTRIUS was ready to arise from the shadows of anonymity.

They performed their first show in november 2004 at the Frontline in Gent. Within the audience was a new guitar player, Thomas. He very much liked what he heard, so he joined the band to do the leads. Invictrius’ style further evolved under his influence, and the new songs became more brutal and more technical. For personal reasons, bass player Philippe had to leave the band.

IN THE SUMMER OF 2005 INVICTRIUS recorded The Butchers Art at underground Studio 13, and after some difficulties, it was released in february 2006. The bass recordings on it were done by Thomas.

At the same time the band also found a new bass player, Jonathan, who had left his band Tronius Mind(rip) and now joined the ranks of INVICTRIUS.

FEBRUARY 2007 a new song called Hunting Horrified Screams was recorded at the Max's Studios Bruges. Peter Itterbeke (Ex-CHANNEL ZERO member) was responsible for the production.

As 2007 neared its end, Miguel decided to leave INVICTRIUS and seek his pleasures elsewhere. We wish him all the best. The bass player, Jonathan, who had up till then only been responsible for the backing vocals, now took Miguels place as lead grunter, a change that was greeted with much enthusiasm from INVICTRIUS’ fanbase.


03/05/2008 - INVICTRIUS is without drummer. After 4 years, Matthew decided to leave the band, because he doesn't feel like playing pure death metal anymore. 


01/06/2008 - The end of INVICTRIUS.
INVICTRIUS decided to break up the band and go each others way , for the motivation of the remaining members is at it's lowpoint. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Invictrius">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.