Current Lineup:
Scott Featherstone (lead vocals)
Rich Knight (touring guitarist)
Chris Lotesto (guitar/vocals)
Rob Such (bass)
Chuck White (drums)

A wise person once said, “the only constant in this world is change,” and after releasing two albums, Beyond Tomorrow (Majesphere) and Reigning Memories (Majesphere/Now&Then UK), the members of ION VEIN, were faced with one of the biggest changes of their career….the search for a new vocalist.
 
Guitarist/founder, Chris Lotesto explains:  “The writing for the third album, sparked by the addition of Chuck White (ex-Michael Angelo Batio/ex-Winterkill) on drums, and the return of original bassist, Brian Gordon, proved to be the most inspired, unique, aggressive, and energetic music to date, the new ION VEIN began to take shape!”  However, as things progressed, this newfound sound and energy also lead to the realization that these songs needed something different vocally.  Lotesto continued, “The decision to part ways with original vocalist, Russ Klimczak, was incredibly difficult for all of us.  He’s a great friend and we shared so many great memories together, but the new material called so strongly for us to move in a different direction that we felt this was the right thing to do for the band.”  The band was also forced to make another very difficult decision in parting ways with Gordon, who played on the studio tracks, at the start of 2010 due to professional differences; he was later replaced with Rob Such (Twelfth Gate/ex-Syris).
 
So began the search for one of the most elusive elements in any band, an amazing lead vocalist.  “It was quite a frustrating period to say the least.” adds Lotesto, “We had a lot of ups and downs, even some good potential vocalists, but when I found ‘the’ email from Scott Featherstone (Enertia/ex-Attica USA) in our inbox, I knew things were about to get really good!”   Lotesto had been a huge fan of Featherstone’s since ION VEIN started playing shows with Enertia, and as luck, or fate would have it, the time was right for the two to join forces.  White also added, “After hearing three tracks from Enertia’s “Force” album, I immediately knew that Scott was the guy as well!” Lotesto continued, “We were totally stoked, to say the least; IV was reborn and stronger than ever!”
 
Featherstone immediately began working on vocals demos to the already completed basic tracks at his home studio in upstate New York for what would become the first three songs to be released; Enough, Love/Hate, and Anger Inside.  The band entered the studio once again with Grammy winning producer, Neil Kernon (Queensyrche, Judas Priest, Nile, Nevermore) at the helm in November to lay down vocals for those three tracks and have since continued working on and developing the rest of the material.
 
In September 2011, ION VEIN announced their partnership with Chicago based Mortal Music to release their new music world wide.  The first release is a three song DR (digital release) simply entitled “IV v1.0” and is a powerful introduction into the new phase of the ION VEIN story. 
 
The DR concept was developed by Mortal Music as taking a snap shot of an album of music and releasing it into the market a “chapter” at a time, so to speak, to allow it to work its way into the marketplace faster and to help alleviate the musical overload fans and press alike are experiencing these days with so many options available.  The full length album will then be available on CD at the end of the cycle for those that still collect physical product.  Added Lotesto; “We really like what the guys at Mortal have going on and think their approach to the new musical marketplace is exciting and innovative!  We’re really glad that we can be a part of helping to shape the way music can be presented to fans these days in the ever changing world of music!”

ION VEIN’s new music is laden with infectious grooves, catchy hooks, dynamic shifts, and intense “in-your-face” musical and rhythmic energy.  Coupled with Featherstone’s melodically guttural vocal magic this creates a sonic experience that has been missing from modern heavy music for far too long, so be prepared to crank it loud!

Check out Wikipedia for the complete band history:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ion_Vein

http://www.ionvein.com/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ion+Vein">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.