Ipsilon has its origins in the year 2008, in Barcelona, as a melodic metal project by Jordi Longan and Carlos Alcaraz. With the passing of time Manuel Cufrè, Manuel Soler “Nolo” and Oscar Vidakovic “Vidakovic” joined the band respectively, and in September of 2009 they consolidated the first stable formation. In December of that same year the first band demo, “Ipsilon”, was edited, having 3 songs recorded and produced entirely by Jordi Longan.

After the release several concerts were carried out, all with positive reactions by the public, one highlight in March 2010 playing as an opening act for Fran Soler in Madrid. After several months of live shows and due to the many requests by the fans, the band decides to record more material. Consequently, in January of 2011, they edit an EP titled Zero, again having Jordi Longan as Producer and Sound Engineer.

Zero meant a turning point for Ipsilon. The release made echoes in the media,  achieving overwhelmingly positive reviews. The statistics were clear, more than 400 listens and 150 downloads in the first 36 hours after the release, mentions in Spanish, South American, North American and European media, also appearing in several radio shows, both traditional and online. Ipsilon was also suggested as one of the most interesting emerging bands in the European scene on the German edition of the Rock Hard magazine.

With the passing of time Ipsilon’s style matured and the progressive aspect acquired more prominence as a result of the more developed musical chemistry between the band members. Thus the band finally takes the challenge to compose and record their first full length album with their new sound, being more progressive but without losing the band’s trademark identity.

During the writing process the band realized the need to incorporate another guitar player, and after several auditions Borja Sandrik is chosen for the position. Also the band decides to incorporate another keyboard player, for orchestral back up on live shows, and Jordi Carbonell joins the band for this purpose.   

Currently the band is working on the composition and pre-production of their new album, which is expected to be released sometime between the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ipsilon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.