1) Ipso Facto (All Female English Band)                                                                                                                Ipso Facto were a goth-inflected psychedelic garage-pop band founded in 2007, consisting of Rosalie Cunningham (Singer, Songwriter, Guitar), Victoria Smith (Drums), Cherish Kaya (keyboards) and Samantha Valentine (Bass guitar).

They were based in London but individually originated from different parts of the UK, including Southend, Newcastle and Bedford. Before Ipso Facto, Rosalie and Samantha played in the Southend band Theoretical Girl and Victoria played in Havana Guns. Samantha is daughter of legendary guitarist Hilton Valentine from The Animals.

Ipso Facto appeared on the ‘BBC Introducing Stage’ at the Reading Festival 2008, and supported The Last Shadow Puppets on their 2008 tour. They supported legendary post-punk band Magazine on their 2009 reunion tour.

Ipso Facto split up in 2009 and the members have gone separate ways. Rosalie Cunningham is continuing to write and record music and has formed a new band called Purson. Samantha Valentine has joined the band Romance and Victoria Smith has been working on her own music and collaborating with various other artists.

2) An esoteric gothic band from the UK in the 1980s. Ipso Facto formed in 1982 and gigged mainly around Sheffield and the North. They were a fairly short lived affair circulating through line-up changes around frontman Eb and releasing 'Noir Doir', 'Mannequin' ,'Give It To Her' and Glass Tigers/ Apostle of Sleeze on their own Zodiak Records label

Eb - Words
Vivienne - Guitar
David Kane - Bass
J Fenn - Drums
Steven Masters - Sax

Refining the post-punk melodrama of the Ants and the Banshees, IF reach back to Ziggy for a streak of glamour and to The Doors for a whiff of theatre. They pout, they strut and – with the sublime 'Glass Tigers' – they prove to have the sheer charisma that turns mere onlookers into devotees. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ipso+Facto">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.