1) "Vilde Iris Hartveit Kolltveit", better know as Iris (stylized as iris), is a Norwegian singer and songwriter. Her debut EP a sensitive being was released by MADE Records in April 2019. She gained some greater recognition from a publication by her friend AURORA promoting the music video for " cotton candy ", lead-single from her second EP femme florale which was released on December 4, 2019.

Her debut album love and other disasters was released on June 4th, 2021. It is preceded by the singles: "lavender and heaven", "voodoo voodoo", "lovemark/crawl for me" and "to be mine (is to lose your mind)".

2) IRIS originally called "Forgiving Iris", started in 1993 when two members of a Texas college electronic music class, Reagan Jones and Matt Morris, realized they had identical tastes in music. The band began playing covers of their favorite songs at clubs in town, and slowly gained a following. A lucky break led to Iris playing at the KRBE 104.1 festival in Houston with acts like C&C Music Factory and Lucas, as well as a performance at the side stage of the Duran Duran / Waterlilies concert that same year. After the appearance of an early version of the track "Annie, Would I Lie To You" on various compilations, the band signed with Todd Durrant from A Different Drum, and work began on the first record.

3) Iris is a Romanian hard rock band. It was established in 1977 by Ion Dumitrescu (drums), Nuţu Olteanu (lead solo guitar and vocals) and Emil Lechinţeanu (bass guitar). They achieved a huge success, followed by tours throughout Romania and recordings for radio broadcast.
The democratic regime installed after 1989 offered the group a chance they couldn’t have in the communist regime. They started appearing on TV and having tours in Italy. They celebrated their 15th anniversary at an international rock festival in 1991 and 1992 beside Ian Gillan Band, and 25 years in 2001 with Uriah Heep.

4) Iris is the name of a Canadian shoegaze band based out of Toronto. In February of 2015, they released an album titled "Haunt Me".

5) Iris Aneas has made herself a name in Europe with her electronics bathed in pop through recordings in labels such as the German Monika Enterprise. Versatile and eclectic, she writes, produces and sings every one of her songs in a very meticulous way. Her artistic interests and her good taste in electronic music are indisputable. Her sounds seek to surprise you and her melodies are like a journey into the youth. Iris is an artist committed to awakening and the free truth, together with a pure talent on stage. Not only composes music for herself, but also for advertising, as for the prestigious Spanish fashion brand Mango. Her delicate voice merges with the exquisite music of electronic overtone, pop, idm… that depicts her work. Iris Aneas' melodies are adjusted to 528Hz, the Solfeggio frecuency.

6) IRIS is a japanese, Tokyo-based melodic hardcore band. Formed in 2015, they have had used a different name until 2016, when they changed the name to "IRIS". With influences as Napoleon, Counterparts,The Ghost Inside and Hotel Books, they have released an EP, "MORTALITY", and a single, "Misery", featuring C. Hinojosa from Eforos, a Peruvian metalcore band.
Bandcamp: https://irisjpn.bandcamp.com
Members: Ken Nicolas Aioi; Tetsuma Horikawa; Rasta Takamatsu; Kaisei Yamaguchi.

7) Iris was an American post-hardcore/mall emo band from Torrance, California. They released an EP in 2005, "Escaping The Clinic". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.