Formerly known as Stuka Squadron.

Strix. Nachzehrer. Strigoiu. Upyr. Vampyre. Vampire…we have many names.

It is a gift and a curse as old as life itself....immortality at the price of a mortal conscience and an unquenchable thirst for human blood. We soon became legend, for the undead flourish within a matrix of death and fear. In times of peace we can eke out an existence, not drawing undue attention, but in war where death is commonplace, we could indulge our insatiable thirst. War creates an atmosphere in which all other evils can thrive. After all, where better to hide the death of hundreds but within a conflict where millions will perish: merely another tree in an expansive forest.

And so through the ages we marched alongside unwitting accomplices, within the most powerful armies known to the world. We have conquered with Caesar’s Legions, preyed on La Grand Armee at the gates of Moscow, stormed the hillforts of the Southern Hemisphere’s coveted lands and lain in the mud and blood of the Flanders trenches. All the while our true nature, our real identity, became nothing more than whispers...stories for frail humans to recite before flickering campfires as they struggled to hold their dread in check. Then we came to an age of unparalleled destructive devices. At last we were seen for who we were as fragile humans tried to harness the power of the Vampire. We flew within the iron beast of war that scattered all before it with its piercing scream; a scream that gave voice to the glorious thrill of the hunt for any Vampire. We flew....and we fought....and we killed. 

But the struggles of men have never troubled the thoughts of the undead. We care as much for human whims and politics as much as any predator cares for its prey’s faiths and beliefs. We dine on the fears of the mortal man, his horror so thick we drink it like the blood taken from his body. But even Vampires can fall. Where once we numbered many, now we are but five. So we continue to this day, embracing an age in which the world has witnessed carnage and conflict for unbroken decades. 

We are Iron Knights. 

These are our tales.......  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iron+Knights">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.