Iron Thrones was a progressive metal band from Minneapolis, MN.  Their music combines progressive death metal and post-metal, with elements of classic progressive and modern rock, as well as a variety of other extreme metal subgenres.

Previously performing under the name "Everest", the band was founded in late 2005, and released their first EP titled "Where Earth Meets The Sky" through Mascaret Records in 2006.  After a major member and stylistic change, the band was renamed to "Iron Thrones".  Their debut album, titled "Visions of Light", was self-released on November 21st, 2008 as a free digital download on their website (download.ironthrones.com), and as a short run "Limited Edition" CD.  Soon after its release, "Visions of Light" garnered many positive reviews on underground websites, leading to a nation-wide re-release in early 2009 by Tribunal Records.  Shortly thereafter, guitarist Adam Shaleen would amicably leave the band to pursue other interests outside of the music industry.  The band has performed and recorded as a four-piece since then, with Adam Clemans (vocalist), Steven Henningsgard (guitarist), Curtis Parker (bassist), and Peter Clarke (drummer).

In Fall 2009, the band began the process of writing their follow-up album.  In Spring 2010, just before they were to enter the studio, Iron Thrones was announced as the winner of Scion's "No Label Needed" Contest.  They were flown out to the East Coast to record what would end up being a 6-song, 41-minute EP with Will Putney of The Machine Shop.  In addition, they received mentoring from several high-profile musicians and PR/music-related companies, with the intention of giving the group everything they'd need in order to succeed as an independent band.  

"The Wretched Sun" was released on July 27th, 2010, both digitally and as an eco-friendly Digipak through their online store.  Their latest effort saw the band combining new elements with an overall faster, more high-energy pace, and was again well-received and positively reviewed.

The band announced their break up from their Facebook page on August 29th, 2012.


Their sound was primarily influenced by other progressive metal acts such as Opeth, Burst, Mastodon, and Between the Buried and Me, as well as post-metal such as Isis and Cult of Luna, and rock bands such as Cave In and Thrice. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iron+Thrones">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.