There are seven artists/bands which bear the name "Iron Fist".

METALPUNK ROCK BAND 

1. A Dutch heavy/thrash metal band.

2. Czech Traditional Metal - side project of Barbarud and Blasphemer from MANIAC BUTCHER.

3. Power Metal Band from Germany released a demo in 1983.

4. Street punk from Minneapolis, MN

5. Oi! band from Germany

6. Metal Punk Rock n' roll band from Los Angeles, CA USA

7. Rac'n'Roll band from France

1. Dutch Heavy Metal band

The band was founded somewhere in 1986. Guitars were handled by John Peter Kuyper at the time. The band had a lot of Motörhead songs in it's setlist. In fact, the first one and a half years the band was more or less a Motörhead cover band and builded up quite a live reputation with that. In 1988 they released a 7" single with two of their own written songs, ‘Sea of Blood’ and ‘Bitch’. They wanted to release 500 copies, but due to a mistake of the company which would handle the records, there where 1000 of them in the end.
At the end of '88/Early '89 guitarist John Peter Kuiper called it a day and Marc Weisscher took over. With Marc at the helm of the guitars the band released a demo that year. In the meantime, people noticed the band, and even in America they gained die hard fans. The American fans had the band fly over to play a few gigs there. The band would have done three gigs in the USA, but in the end only one was played, in the famous CBGB club in New York. On the 7th January 1990 the band played their first concert in the USA. They record it and release it as live demo later on. Back home the band worked on new material, recorded in '91 and released on CD in '92 with the title "Loaded Gun". The band presented 'straight in your face metal' songs which overwhelm you like an avalanche.
Iron Fist did a few support gigs too. Metal Church in the Melkweg in Amsterdam and a Manowar support gig. Their absolute highlight was in 1994 in Tilburg when they opened for their heroes Motörhead. The Loaded Gun CD had lots of great reviews (Aardschok magazine gave it an 8 out of 10).
The name of the band was most probably taken from the name of the Motörhead song "Iron Fist". Motörhead was one of the band's greatest influences (also Slayer, Sodom, Celtic Frost). The band's sound/genre can be compared with some of the end 80's/start of the 90's thrash metal and heavy metal. Lyrically the band cover anarchy, death (not the modern deathmetal kind of death), God (negatively speaking of God), etc.
Overall sound of the band could be described as: chunky guitars, fast paced drums, aggressive rythms and growled singing (not the deathmetal kind of growl). A nice oldschool production, but still a very balanced overall sound.

2. Czech Traditional Metal - side project of Barbarud and Blasphemer from MANIAC BUTCHER.

3. Power Metal Band from Germany released a demo in 1983.
Line-Up:
Piet Sielck - Vocals, Guitars
Kai Hansen - Guitars, Vocals
Markus Grosskopf - Bass
Ingo Schwichtenberg - Drums

4. Street punk from Minneapolis, MN

5. Oi! band from Germany

6. Metal Punk Rock n' roll band from Los Angeles, CA USA
www.facebook.com/ironfistusa
www.myspace.com/youcannotstopher

7. Rac'n'Roll band from France <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iron+Fist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.