Irony of Christ are a progressive death metal 4-piece from the south of England. Encompassing death metal, thrash, doom and black metal, Irony of Christ are not afraid to cross boundaries and think a little outside the standard ‘brutal death metal’ framework.

Irony of Christ have recently finished the recording of their 3rd EP entitled ‘The God Delusion’, a 7-track CD showcasing yet further progression in both dynamic song writing and extremity. Written primarily by guitarists/vocalists Sacha Darwin and Dave MacLean, the recording is the band’s most comprehensive effort to date. The band are currently organising shows throughout the UK and beyond in support of the new EP.

Having supported bands such as Carpathian Forest and Centinex in 2005, 2006 saw Irony of Christ voted as the UK’s 6th Best Unsigned Band in Zero Tolerance magazine’s Readers Poll, as well as appearing on bills with bands as diverse as Bolt Thrower and Inquisition. In Spring 2006 the band took some time off the gigging circuit to concentrate on writing new material, when the sudden departure of bassist Dan Bartlett pushed back the band’s recording plans. The rehearsal and re-honing of the new material went on regardless, but 6 months on in it became clear that finding a qualified full-time replacement for Dan wouldn’t happen as soon as hoped and in April 2007 hired hands were taken on to ease the band back onto the stage for their first gig for exactly one year. Reluctant to delay the recording of the new material any longer, the band used session bassists on ‘The God Delusion’, only to find a full-time replacement in the form of Jamie Sweeney before mixing was even completed! Each release by the band sees some kind of progression, and ‘The God Delusion’ is no exception. From the overly melodic lead keyboards of the first EP, ‘The Eternal War’, to the more solid melo-death riffage of ‘Words of the Forgotten’, ‘The God Delusion’ steps into a darker, faster territory, shifting between styles and textures with apparent abandon and disregard for the ‘rules’. Tracks such as ‘Absolution In Flames’ and ‘Milites Christi’ are different in feel musically, yet are held together lyrically by stories about the darker side of Christianity as well as religion in general. The theme of religious hypocrisy is often present in the band’s lyrics, yet they are careful not to tie themselves down to a particular lyrical theme or style of song writing, as guitarist Dave MacLean explains. “We’ve been accused in reviews of having not settled down, and not having found our ‘sound’ yet, but I think gradually people will come to realise that this is our sound.”

‘The God Delusion’ EP is set for self-release in July 2007 while the band plan as many UK dates as their schedule will allow, including two tours; the first in September / October and the second planned for early in 2008.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Irony+of+Christ">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.