Formed back in early 1996, Irredemption have had always serious problems with line-up, which was not established until the end of the year, when the band decide to record their first demo, Erroneous God. In January 1997, the bass player and the singer leave the band, but a new singer join it during the demo recording sessions, so the line-up in the first Irredemption official work was Juan on guitar & bass, Abel on drums and Victor as singer. Soon after, a friend joins the band as bassist, playing live together in different places, including a show in Madrid with Expiration. The year 1998 was very important for Irredemption... in the beginning the bass player leave the band, but other friend, Vicente, join it just when the band enters the studio to record their first five tracks MCD, Under Blood. They were signed with the label Goremania Records to release it as split-CD, but sadly it never happened. Soon after the recording sessions, the bass player and the drummer leave the band, so Irredemption remains only with two members... even they continue composing new songs but, at the end of the year the vocalist leave Albacete to live in other city, so the band was only Juan... When he was thinking to left it all, in summer 1999, he met new people... very soon, the brothers Ángel and José García, on drums and bass respectively, joined Irredemption, and the band begins the writing of new song... soon after, Impaler joins them as vocalist and, a few months later, Juan Pablo Ramos Fucky as guitarist, so Irredemption returns to burn the stages. In July 2001, Irredemption enters the studio for the third time in order to record a new MCD... The Last Human is called, six songs of an aggressive death metal with some black touches, totally self-financed by the band. Irredemption continues playing live with bands like Imbrue, Asgaroth, Baalphegor or Centinela. In the year 2002, the band records a cover from the classic Death cut, Crystal Mountain, for a Chuck Schuldiner tribute released by the Spanish label Mondongo Canibale Records and entitled Together As One. They also starts the writing of new stuff for their first full length album, but line-up problems continue, and José is substituted by Oli on bass... meanwhile, the band keep on destroying the stages with bands like Avulsed, Wormed, Tierra Santa or Cerebral Effusion. In April 2004, Irredemption enters the V.R.S. Studios (Avulsed, Wormed, Imbrue, Human Mincer, Haemorrhage...) in Madrid to record the eleven songs of brutal death metal that compose their debut album, Hordes Of Anger, with Samuel Ruiz under the controls. One of them is a re-recorded version of the Death cover Crystal Mountain, which is also reissued in a new tribute to the great American band released by the Chinese label Area Death Productions and titled Unforgotten Past. During the recording sessions, Oli has to leave Albacete for a serious personal problem, so the band was again without a bass player... Irredemption signs then a deal with the American label Extremist Records, but it suddenly disappears just before releasing the album, so the band has to begin again the searching of a new label... meanwhile, Impaler is kicked out of the band and Ángel has to leave it, but soon after Carlos joins them as singer and, a few months later, Alex and Alberto join too as bass player and drummer respectively, so Irredemption has a completed line-up again. After all, the Spanish label Sarcomatose Records shows its interest in the recording, and Hordes Of Anger, the first Irredemption full album is finally released on September 2005... Nowadays the band is working in the new stuff and in the forthcoming shows.

After a long break, the band returns in 2016, signed a deal with Base Record Production and with a new line up, in August 2020 the band edits their second full length album called Eternal Mutilation Of Saturn <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Irredemption">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.