1) The band was founded in 1996 by Markus Meier (lyrics) and Markus Nauli (keyboards). In 1997, they got the first concert booking and for this event, Renato Kienberger joined Irrlicht. 

The first 3 releases of the band (“Armer Narr”, Zeit & Gedankensplitter) were containing typical influences of the traditional darkwave music of german poetic spoken words bands like GOETHES ERBEN and ENDRAUM. 

The band became popular in Switzerland after releasing these records and allowed them to get a live story at a music show of the official swiss television. As a support to ILLUMINATE during their germany-tour 2001, Irrlicht became firmly established in the dark music scene. The release of the 4th fulltime- album “Garten der Seraphina” was crowned by a live act at the biggest festival of the “dark scene” – the WAVE GOTHIC TREFFEN at Leipzig. In the meantime, the line-up of the band was added by a guitarist who was growing the musical aspects of Irrlicht, honoured by the top scene magazines ZILLO, GOTHIC and ORKUS. 

The following new CD “De/KadenZ” (2003) underscored the headstrong way of Irrlicht. Shortly after this release, Markus Nauli left his side job at the keyboards of ILLUMINATE and won there former female singer, Daniela Dietz, to complete the line-up at Irrlicht. Finally, the band recorded in 2005 a new album named “Endklang” who was released at the X-Tra Music-Club combined with a legendary support act for DEINE LAKAIEN, added by unique visuals on stage. This show completed Markus Meier's career of 8 years at Irrlicht. Together with the actual fulltime album, Irrlicht also recorded a CD Single “In die Nacht”, containing some club edits and remixes who found place at the “bullets” of the DAC (GERMAN ALTERNATIVE CHARTS). The longplayer (Endklang) was joined by DEPECHEMODE.CH into the top 5 ranking of 2005. 

This fundamental change in the Line-up was a great opportunity to take some new musical directions. Even though Irrlicht did not completely changed their own style, but new influences will be clearly audible on the coming new material, announced under the title “Bilderbuch”. This new CD is announced now for the 10th anniversary of the band in 2007

2) A German duo playing raw Black Metal. They released two demo tapes in the 1990ies.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Irrlicht">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.