Is Tropical are a musical trio from England. Formed in London, United Kingdom in 2009, the band released their debut single "When O’ When" on Hit Club Records in January 2010, produced by Al Al Al. They were soon signed to French music and fashion label Kitsuné.

The band entered the studio in the autumn of 2010 with Jimmy Robertson to record their debut album, and released the single ‘South Pacific’ in Jan 2011. This second release and first for their new label Kitsuné / Cooperative Music, was mixed by LEXXX. Around this time they toured the UK and Europe as special guests of Klaxons, The Big Pink, Mystery Jets, Good Shoes and also co-headlined a tour with Egyptian Hip Hop.

In June 2011 they released their debut album “Native to”, preceded by the single “The Greeks”. "The Greeks" was accompanied by a video directed by French directors Megaforce, which quickly went viral (almost 3,500,000 plays to date on YouTube, and over 10,000,000 on Chinese YouTube)[citation needed]. The video was critically praised and has won several awards (The Antville Music Video Awards 2011', UK Music Video Awards 2011', D&AD Yellow Pencil Award 2012', Artrocker Award).

After the release of "Native to" and of single "Lies", the band spent rest of 2011 and part of 2012 touring Europe, USA (with Crystal Fighters), Japan, South America and the Far East.

In January 2013, Is Tropical released an EP, titled "Flags", featuring artists Get People, Visions, Drugzndreamz, Goodbye Leopold and Owen Pratt.The band released their second album ‘I’m Leaving’ on 20 May 2013 on Kitsune / Pias. The album was produced by Luke Smith.

The first single taken from the album is "Dancing Anymore", accompanied by a video by previous collaborators Megaforce, which gained notoriety and was removed from YouTube within hours of its release due to its graphic depiction of imagined sexual acts between a young man and naked CG characters. The second single, 'Lover's Cave' was released on August 26. 2013. The video was directed by cult New York photographer Richard Kern.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Is+Tropical">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.