Seven artists share this name:

1. Isa Sanna Mattiasdotter Tengblad (born 25 April 1998), known professionally as Isa (stylized as ISA) is a Swedish singer, dancer and songwriter. She has participated in Småstjärnorna where she imitated singer Jill Johnson. In 2012 she released the single "Bomb". She performed the song at Sommarkrysset the same year. In 2014 she released the single "What Are We". ISA participated in Melodifestivalen 2015 with the song "Don't Stop" and she made it to the final, finishing 7th overall. She also took part in Melodifestivalen 2016 with "I Will Wait", where she advanced to the Second Chance, but didn't make it to the final. She keeps her carreer, releasing pop-urban songs, like her last one, "I.S.A.".

2.  Isa (born Isa Couvertier) is a Christian artist born and raised in the city of Philadelphia. After ten years of performing, recording and leading worship, Isa took a two year sabbatical and has returned with new material under the new name Isa Agape.  www.isaagape.com

3. One man Ambient/Black Metal band from Netherlands. Has a 2008 debut full length called Eindeloos.

4. One man psychedelic progressive death metal band from Boston, MA, USA. ISA released a debut full-length "Chimera" 4/20/18 to critical acclaim, compared to peers ranging from Gorguts and Pyrrhon to Cynic, Atheist, and Neurosis. Densely layered, oscillating between borderline inaccessibility and enthralling beauty, with "shifting textures, mind-contorting riffs, killer bass grooves" and displaying "an absurd level of technical mastery," ISA's music will fully occupy your consciousness, completely absorbing you in its rich, multifaceted soundscapes.

5. A DSBM project from the Netherlands, they released one independent single 'Labyrinth of Pain' in late 2014,
the project consits of two members, Lumium (also known of 'Funeral Grave'), and 'Delandos'.

6. 25 years old singer from Poland. Her debut album is called " MÓJ ANIOł" ( my angel) , more info you can find in www.dreammusic.pl

7. One man Folk/Ambient/Atmospheric Black Metal band from Novosibirsk, Russia. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Isa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.