There are three artists under the name "Isabel".

1. Isabel Suckling (born 24 March 1998) is a British choirgirl who upon signing a record deal with Decca Records became the youngest classical recording artist to date, and the first choirgirl to sign a record contract with a major music label. Suckling sings in the choir at York Minster and was discovered by Decca following a nationwide search. She is currently being mentored by the singer, TV/radio presenter and former boy treble Aled Jones.

Her debut album is titled The Choirgirl, and was released on 29 November 2010 ahead of Christmas sales anticipated by record executives to be lucrative. The album's first single is a cover of Michael Jackson's "You Are Not Alone", with proceeds going to the charity Age UK. Also featured is a choral recording of "Imagine" to commemorate the 30th anniversary of John Lennon’s death, and a duet with Aled Jones' original 1986 vocal track on "All Through The Night", previously never released.

2. Isabel Soares was born on the 24th of March 1983 in Avanca-Esterreja, Portugal). The german public got to know her with her selection for the eurovision song contest in 2002. Sie erhielt massive publizistische Unterstützung von der BILD-Zeitung, die sie aus 5000 Kandidaten als "ihre" Kandidatin ausgewählt hatte. Dieter had produced her first real single (will my heart surrive) Her second single 'like snow in June' was also a big hit and rose quick enough in the german top 50 charts. She lives in Hamburg.

Isabel is also one of the characters from American Doll Posse.

3. Isabel is an up and coming Brisbane, Australia-based songstress of neo-soul infused with hints of R&B. The singer-songwriter's music has already featured locally, having supported some of the best of Brisbane’s local talents such as The Young Art, Astrid J and O Little Sister. Her sultry beats and sumptuous sounds have captured and captivated audiences and reviewers alike, with AU Review praising the 'untamed soul woman’.

Isabel’s music career had started in 2012 where she headlined at a local gig alongside Astrid and the Asteroids and Lyre. In 2013, she supported the Astrid and the Asteroids Autopsy launch alongside Hailey Calvert which received a glowing review: “Opening the night was Astrid’s self-proclaimed “prodigal vocal student” Isabel. She picked up her Electric guitar, and together with her bass guitar playing friend they played a set of mellow melodies. Let me tell you, there’s an untamed soul woman behind her reserved demeanor. Her vocal style reminds me so much of Sara Bareilles in many ways. There are inflections that just captivate you into listening.”

Isabel’s ability to create powerful music, has seen her feature regularly on the City Sounds circuit, as well as participate in the final Indie 100 project in 2015. 2016 is set to bring new original material from the artist. Drawing inspiration from a mixture of soul and electronic artists such as Meg Mac, Jarryd James and Chet Faker, her upcoming single ‘Fences’ heralds a departure from the Brisbane songstress’ folk roots, layering beats and sounds to create an enchanting soundscape. This will be the first song to be released from her forthcoming EP which is due out later this year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Isabel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.