BIO

Ish Marquez was born and raised in the infamous South Bronx section of New York City. He started listening to music at a very early age to block out the chaos surrounding him. When Ish was 11 years old his father bought him a 15 dollar Stella guitar (same as BB King’s). He taught himself to play until his father took him to a guitar teacher. The music lessons did not last very long. Fed up with his guitar teacher’s shenanigans and laziness, Ish taught himself over a course of 10 years, developing a unique style of playing. By the time Ish was 20, his friend Ritchie Pantojas encouraged him to sing. One year later, Ish met singer/musicians Manny (Megman) Oquendo and Richard Cordero and formed Hallucination Station. Many wonderful and magical shows occurred in NYC during this period, where this trio had a memorable following. In late 1997 to early 1998, Ish decided to branch out on his own.

During this time he met with the Anti-folk scene that was brewing in the Lower East Side of Manhattan and developed his now signature original style of singer/songwriting. Since then, Ish has performed in New York, recorded music on his own as well as collaborations with other artists. Ish has toured all over Europe for four years in a row as well as performing shows in Hawaii and various clubs all over the United States. But Ish loves Europe and wishes to make it his home base at some point.

Ish expresses his heartfelt appreciation to his many fans whom he loves to write to and hang out with at his various performances.


Quote from www.antifolkonline.com/IshMarquez.html :

In New York City’s Anti-Folk scene, Ish Marquez comes from the dilapidated boro of the Bronx to the Lower East Side’s Sidewalk cafe during the late ’90s. In 1999 he met the guitar player Spencer Chakedis and started writing seriously with him by 2001. The music created by the two of them is the very best, sincere and under-appreciated mix of rock, soul and an outpouring of lost innocence and prayer. They are unsurpassed Kings of Original Anti-Folk and some of the most intense live performers that the scene and this world are likely to ever see again! To see them live is a testimony of all that is sacred in our singer/songwriting pool and they live,breathe and rock in the purgatory world of MUSIC’S ANTI-FOLK!

Band members past and present (source: http://www.myspace.com/ishmarquez )

Rene Ferrer (lead guitar and bass on,”Is There Really Such a Word”), Rich Pantojas, Manny Oquendo, Rich Cordero, Ivan and Caesar Lopez, Ernesto Gomez, Phil Logerfo, Spencer Chakedis, Amos Torres, Alice Hautfaust, Mathias Carlson, James Telfer, Lisa Weissberg, Gerson Ortiz, Rob Sonnenberg, Tom Taggart, Jeff Lewis (hand clapping on Glow Yer Glow), Brer Brian, Sarah Kittel, Anders Griffin, Scott Fragala, Gavin Daly (trombones on “Glow Yer Glow), Manuel Brent Fargas, Jan Junker, Stanley Brinks, Clemence Freschard, Grey Revell, Seth of Dufus, Teddy-O, Deenah Moffie, Lee Greenman, and a host of others I can’t think of at the moment!

Quotes from other artists:

"...a true underground icon...his recordings are hidden treasures of the Anti-folk community."....ADAM GREEN

"....a unique and talented musician,and everyone should take the time to hear him live...".....REGINA SPEKTOR

"Ish is one of the most amazing and unique artists I know, a true soul-singing star of the underground and unlike anything you've ever experienced. I've been rabidly attending his shows in NYC for ages, you must not miss the rare chance to see him in the UK!!".... JEFFREY LEWIS

"It's a humbling experience to watch a room full of people watch Ish sing. He sings to be heard. He sings as if he is reaching out into the audience to make a connection with everyone who is listening. Ish is one of the purist artistic talents I know and his music lives in a special place for those who know and love it."....TURNER CODY
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ish+Marquez">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.