DOOM IS OUT! GET IT FOR FREE AT OUR WEBSITE: WWW.ISRSUCKS.COM

enjoy that shit!

————
BIO:
————
ISHITROBOTS was formed out of pure frustration and curiosity. in the middle of 2006, two guys, steve and chris, got together to do some fucking manly experiments combining lightspeed blastbeats and wonderfully fingered guitars coupled with insane guttural grunts and screams in the shortest possible song length. the result was a release of 4 absurdly beautiful songs full of bearded manliness and pseudobrutal nonsense leading the band to ultimate fame. immediate success forced them to write new material and get chicks to show them their boobs. tragically, this musical relationship was destroyed by all the airs and graces that naturally followed. so steve (the sexier of the two) had to go looking for someone that could replace chris on the guitar, while chris devoted his time to sideprojects like “bukakke breakfast” and later “my mouth is full of dropkicking astronauts” and got super famous and rich doing so.

that asshole.

steve, was just about to throw the bloody and sweaty towel that was ISR in its very essence when he suddenly met dr. adam ibanez, a talented and open minded musician with the fingers of apocalypse. he immediately jumped aboard and shredded up 10 songs in less than 2 weeks. being overwhelmed by the doctors ambition steve felt like he needed to gear up his vocal performance to match the newfound brutality and fuckedness of the instrumentals and bring ISR as a whole to a new level. and he sure did. in april 2007 ISR released their first ep called “hollywood holocaust”, featuring ten songs containing the sickest shit theyve ever done.

the album made them super duper rich and steve could finally afford his well needed penis shortening surgery.

during the next two years ishitrobots wrote lots of material. none of it was ever released. it was simply too good. the unbearable brutality and technical prowess would have destroyed the entire planet so they had to soften it down. a process that took them almost another year…

but finally the songs were save and soft enough to be released.

and they called it „DOOM“… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ishitrobots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.