There are three artists that go by the name Ishi:

1) Eshraque Mughal, stylised iSHi, is a Swedish record producer responsible for Tinie Tempah's UK chart-topper "Written in the Stars" and Professor Green & Emeli Sandé's chart-topper "Read All About It". iSHi's other production credits include Pusha T, Tinchy Stryder, Example, Devlin, Wretch 32 and Lupe Fiasco.

2) Folktronic band from Dallas, TX

Ishi is a high energy electronic band with influences of Soul, Funk, & Folk to Electro, Techno & House. They thrive on creating a positive atmosphere that encourages their audience to be themselves & let loose.

Ishi was born as an experiment between friends. JT Mudd & Brad Dale set out to create a sound that would help redefine the pop sensibility of modern day music. Their vision was to blend the classic, soulful story-telling and organic instrumentation of traditional folk music, with the infinite sonic possibilities offered through electronic production. Experimentation quickly evolved into a journey of sound that ultimately lead to the songs on Ishi’s debut, 'Through the Trees', released May of 2010 & their latest album 'Digital Wounds' released April of 2013. 

Ishi’s ability to successfully walk the line between an ambitious studio act and a multi-sensory live experience allows them to engage their audiences in an uplifting celebration of life. High-energy dance floors combined with the subtle undertones of inner-exploration combine to create a concert experience that is unequivocally one-of-a-kind. Each night, Ishi intends to create an entirely unique environment of mysticism, awareness, and love. Adored by fans and critics alike, there is no denying that Ishi is an immersive experience that everyone should discover.

On Digital Wounds (release date 4/9/13) the band collaborated for a second time with acclaimed artist James Marsh, who designed all the album art for experimental UK band Talk Talk. The new record was spawned out of their deep love for John Lennon & Michael Jackson. The band was able to mix down their record on a console that Michael Jackson owned & used for the record 'Bad'. The live elements consist of Rocky Ottley & Jonathan Merla. Rocky Ottley, a UNT graduate, plays guitar & sings live. He's a gifted multi- instrumentalist that brings all facets of the musical wheel to the team. Jonathan Merla, a Berkley graduate, play drums live and hand percussion on the new record. 

October, 12th of 2012 Ishi experienced a dream come true by opening for the lengendary New Wave band New Order. They've been listed as one of the top 5 artists in North Texas of 2012 by Pegasus News. In 2010 the band won ‘Best New Act’ & ‘Best Electronic/Dance Act’ & in 2011 ‘Best Electronic/Dance Act’ by the Dallas Observer.

Today, Ishi continues to tour the country in support of their soon-to-be-released sophomore album, “Digital Wounds”. They have appeared at major festivals such as SXSW, Meltdown Music Festival, Wicker Park Festival, and Halfway to Forecastle; and they continue to share the stage with some of the most widely known and respected Indie and Dance acts on the touring circuit including: Snoop Dogg, New Order, Of Montreal, SBTRKT, Phoenix, Chromeo, Bright Light Social Hour, Pretty Lights, Big Boi, Neon Indian, AM & Shawn Lee, Friendly Fires, Toro y Moi, & Twin Shadow.

3) Metal <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ishi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.