1) Breakcore from ghent
2) metalband from zagreb

1) IskaRiot is an belgium bedroomproducer with roots in ghent, making tunes for his own amusement. His favourite structure is 4/4 hardcorekicks layered with nasty chopped amens and accompanied by silly melodies. He's very much inspired by what he calls the "sillycore"-scene, wich includes artist like shitmat, sickboy, epsilon, maladroit....
All of his tracks are released under cc-license on www.electrobel.be, a belgian producers community which also hosts harry poppins, skip and akwalek to name a few, and are downloadable for free!

2) Iskariot is also used by an industrial black/death metal band from Zagreb, Croatia.
Although the band had already existed for almost a year, it wasn't until the fall of 2004 that Iskariot took its real form. Originally formed from the ashes of Minas Morgul, the line-up featured only two original members: Khorz (vocals, guitars) and Bergaz (drums); and the new forces featured Agott of Obscurity on bass, and on guitar Void of Tron fame. From then on, the explosive creativity gave birth to 9 songs that have finally been recorded in the end of 2005 / beginning of 2006 at Sound Cage studio in Zagreb, engineered by Mario Romanic (Forlorn Legacy). That material is now waiting for a record-deal, so it can be released under the title "Execution of Dominatory Chants: Progression of Fall". Iskariot has appeared in front of Croatian audience a few times, and all shows reaped formidable success and atention. In the fall of 2006, due to some obligations and aspirations in his personal life, Void had lesser time to devote to the band, which resulted in him taking over just the vocals in the band, and when Agott had to leave the band for the same reasons, Void also took over the bass duty, while reinforcements arrived in the form of Erebh, the long time guitar player of Melkor. In the present, Iskariot is not wasting time, the band is rather dedicated to live performance, along with the creation of new material.

Line up:
/Bergaz - drums & percussion
/Void - vocals, bass
/Erebh - guitars
/Khorz - guitars, programming, drones & FX, additional vocals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Iskariot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.