Island is a name of at least five bands:
(1) A 1970s progressive rock band
(2) A Welsh Club production duo signed to Crazylegs.
(3) The group which represented Cyprus at 1981 Eurovision
(4) A German band
(5) A Flemish supergroup
(6) A UK blues rock band
(7) A Polish doom metal band

(1) A progressive rock band from the 1970s which sounded pretty much like Canterbury. The band format included keys, sax, drums and vocals. The biggest influence for ISLAND definitely seems to be Van Der Graaf Generator, and the band certainly approaches high quality progressive rock from the darker end of the spectrum. Sometimes the influence of Gentle Giant gets very clear in their music. 

(2) Group consisting of Alexia Bassiliou, Areti Kassapi Haralbidou, Aristos Moskovakis, Roger Lee and Doros Georgiadis. Only recorded their Eurovision entry as this collective 

(3) A Bonn, Germany, band formed in autumn 2003 by Christian Kolf, Florian Toyka and Patrick Schroeder. In winter 2003/2004 we recorded the first album "Orakel" with Tim Steffens of Klabautamann at Flammenmeer Studios. Six months later the "Island EP" was recorded at the mysterious Studio 308 by ourselves, and mixed by Armin Rave at Sound-Sight Studios. After this recording Patrick Schroeder left the band to focus more on Centaurus-A. They are currently signed on Vendlus Records.

Sites: IslandBand.De (official)

(4) A Flemish supergroup with the late folk alumni Wannes Van Der Velde en Dirk Van Esbroeck (Rum) who released a cd around the theme of Iceland.

(5) A UK blues rock band with members Rollo Doherty, Jack Raeder, James Wolfe and Toby Richards. Their tracks include "Lucid Heart" and "Lyra".

(7) A Polish atmospheric doom metal band founded in 1995. They have released two demos titled "My Kingdom" and "Mirror" in 1996 and 1997 before splitting up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Island">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.