Formed by five kids with a mutual interest in the extreme corners of metal and rock, Isle of Man started out in the summer of 2002.

Influenced by the somewhat more extreme death metal, noise, math and grind- / hardcore bands they started jamming and writing songs and quickly found their own style. Their influences range from groundbreaking bands as The Dillinger Escape Plan, Cephalic Carnage, Cryptopsy and more hardcore oriented groups as Poison The Well and Martyr AD to the all time metal classics like Metallica, Slayer, Suffocation and Iron Maiden. After a year and a half a few shows were done and they entered the studio to record four songs for a promotional mini-CD in the beginning of 2004. This mini-CD was recorded with the intention to gain some attention from venues and record labels. The songs recorded are "Memphis Tennessee", "Daddy I want to be a rockstar", "24 hour armed response" and "Pigroast". These songs were recorded at the Excess Studios in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, where bands like Sinister, Pyeamia and Houwitser also recorded their material.

In July 2004 Isle of Man recorded a fifth track, called "She was a". It will appear on the soundtrack of the Dutch horror-splatter movie called Horizonica. Remko, Isle of Man's bass-player, made a video-clip for the song Pigroast. And right now, they are trying to get it on national television.

In October 2004 Isle of Man signed a distribution and promotion deal with Garden of Exile Records. The five tracks they recorded last year will be released by the end of November 2004. The MCD will be called: "Breathe Plastic." 

Isle Of Man was a band where technicality, brutality, freaky riffs, good song structures and a bit of humor were the key words.

Right before their split-up the band also recorded a self titled mini album in the summer of 2006 as a last 'musical farewell' containing five brand new songs, which will be put online for a free download as soon as possible. In the meanwhile you can listen to one of the tracks here on Myspace entitled 'A Design For A New Disease'.

www.myspace.com/isleofman   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Isle+of+Man">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.