Israthoum is a melodic black metal band formed in Portugal and now based in the Netherlands. They are Israth on bass and vocals, Arvath on drums, Agramon on keys and Kald and Charagnanna on guitar. The five members make strong, well put together material. A full length album is currently being recorded.

Israthoum was formed in ’92 in Portugal under the name of Grendel, and standing for sick & fast Satanic Grindcore. The line-up back then was: Arvath (drums), Arluth Dhu (guitar/vocals) and Israth (bass/vocals). By this time, two demos were recorded, namely in ’92 (Decapitation) and in ’93 (untitled). These were never launched into the scene though.

 A bit later the band started giving some concerts, so 3 gigs were done in Portugal in ’95, this time as a Black Metal formation, and under the new name Geryous. After this period there came a time where rehearsing became impossible since the band was kicked out of the rehearsal-place due to good old censorship.

Somewhere between ’97 and ’98 there was a final change of the band name to Israthoum, and which was shortly followed by a change of residence to the Netherlands (Arluth Dhu and Arvath) and Luxembourg (Israth) respectively.

Even though this meant a physical distance between its members, Israthoum finally got the chance of rehearsing again, and this time with proper material, and also some new members joined the horde. This resulted in the release of the demo Hatred in 2001. This one was followed in 2002 by the MCD The Art of Malice. Both releases were self-financed and had a very poor production.

After Arluth Dhu relocated back to Portugal, Israthoum started recording what was supposed to become the first full-length album. It ended up consisting on a mini-album entitled Black Scenery Avatar, and was released in 2004 by S.A.R.S. Productions in a limited amount of 333 copies. This release was very well received by the scene and soon Israthoum signed a contract with Merciless Records for the re-release of this mini-album (on both MLP as MCD) and possibly for future releases as well.

Due to unknown reasons Vincent left the band in 2005 and Israthoum recruited a new guitarist, namely Kald. 

During their existence, Israthoum shared the stage with Marduk, Satanic Slaughter, Dornenreich, Sabbatical Goat, Ragnarok, Maniac Butcher, Helheim, Bestial Mockery, Botulistum, Sauron, Perditor, Zemial, Desaster, Infinity, Ancient Rites, etc. 

Members of Israthoum also play or have played in bands like Perditor, Funeral Winds, Warlust, Liar of Golgotha, Caym (former Bestial Summoning), Onheil, Eternal Frost, etc.

Discrography:

"Demo-tape"
Year: 2001
Recorded: Dynamo studios (Rotterdam)
Label: Self-financed
Track listing:
1. Carpe Noctem
2. Creation of Thine (I am)
3. Maligne
Line-up: Israth (vocals), Arvath (drums), Arluth Dhu  (lead guitar), Agramon (keys), Vincent (rhythm guitar), Samantha (bass)

"The Art of Malice"
Year: 2002
Recorded: Dynamo studios (Rotterdam)
Label: self-financed
Track listing:
1. In Obedience
2. Grave Harvesting
3. Undisclosed Terror
4. Where No Words of Man are Spoken
5. Horny Christian Slut
6. Prayday
7. Ich Gehe Durch
Line-up: Israth (vocals), Arvath (drums), Arluth Dhu (guitar, acoustic guitar), Agramon (keys), Vincent Xul (guitar), Charagnanna (bass)

"Black Scenery Avatar"
Year: 2004 
Recorded: R&T Music (Hilversum)
Label: S.A.R.S. Productions
Track listing:
1. The ldritch Circle
2. The Storm Which Lies Ahead
3. Guidance
4. The Ghostly Hour
5. Dimensions
6. Black Scenery Avatar
Line-up: Israth (vocals, bass), Arvath (drums, acoustic guitar, bass, vocals), Agramon (keys), Vincent (guitar, bass), Charagnanna (guitar, bass), Arluth Dhu (co-guitar compositions)

"Black Scenery Avatar (Re-release)"
Year: 2006
Recorded: R&T Music (Hilversum)
Label: Merciless Records
Track Listing:
1. The ldritch Circle
2. The Storm Which Lies Ahead
3. Guidance
4. The Ghostly Hour
5. Dimensions
6. Black Scenery Avatar
Line-up: Israth (vocals, bass), Arvath (drums, acoustic guitar, bass, vocals), Agramon (keys), Vincent (guitar, bass), Charagnanna (guitar, bass), Arluth Dhu (co-guitar compositions)

www.israthoum.com  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Israthoum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.