ITSI is a Bulgarian alternative metal band formed in 2002 in Sofia, by Anton "Tony" Dimitrov (guitars) and Svetoslav "Svetlyo" Radev (drums).

After few tests on Tony's riffs they decided to invite their old friend bassist Ivo "Rukata" Ventzislavov to join the band. In 2004 ITSI recorded their first demo "This Is Not" in Graffitti Studio, Sofia. As a result the band appeared on the pages of "Pro-Rock" magazine as one of the promising young bands on the Bulgarian metal scene. 

A year later (the summer of 2005) the band changed their vocalist Hadjo. The new member is Dimitar "D!DO" Georgiev, also known from the crossover audioterrorists All of Us. The band started experimenting with more diverse influences. 

In the begining of 2006 ITSI started to work over their debut album "The Diary of a Psycho" in Studio Pacific, Sofia. There they met Zhelyz "Zhelyo" Zhelezov (drums in Front Point and Awake) who managed with the mixing and mastering of the album. In the autumn of 2006 the band postponed the promotion of long-prepared album for the beginning of 2007 through the departure of the drummer Svetlyo. Zhelyo became the substitute. They work together on the final releases of "The Dairy of a Psycho". The official date of the promotion of the record is May 28, 2007 (supported by the psychedelic alternative metal monsters Kuln) in club Alcohol, Sofia.

After a long break in the begining of November 2007 the band shot their first video on a brand new track "Humanity" and started the work on their second album... Shortly after however the band once again changed drummers as Svetlio first returned to ITSI but the left again nd was replaced by newcomer Pavel Nikolov. The band's second guitarist Don Pepino also left. Rukata, the band's bassist, decided to switch to guitar, while his place was filled by longtime friend of the band Boyan karamfilov (formely of Kuln).

With this lineup the band finished work on their second album, "Last Days", that was released on February 29 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ITSI">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.