There are several bands with the name Ives.

(1) A punky black metal band from Florida.
"Members of Talk Sick Earth , Septic Warfare , Vomikaust , Foul Intent and No Pleasure In Life .
A FORCE AGAINST ANY PROGRESS AND MODERNIZATION , TO FEAST UPON THE SOUL IS TO CRUSH THE LIFE AND GAIN STRENGTH WITHIN .
REGRESSION , LIVE IT , ALWAYS AGAINST THE GRAIN."





(2) As young lads, aspiring to craft their lives into something a little less dreary that the ill-fated profession so common to those who would remain in an old rickety mining town such as those in Northern California; the group known to most as "IVES" set out to make themselves a name among the countless droves present in the musical bazaar of the American nation.

As these youngsters embark upon a long and tedious journey down the hard road to their first full length studio release - due to release this summer - the meagerly funded members of IVES were compelled to become their own patrons; pushing to establish their style as a band in a world that seemed to know nothing but the choruses of clankering and clattering horse-drawn carriages across cobblestone streets - or so it would seem when presented with the so common sounds and themes in today's musical era. Trudging through the mire of the avant-garde society of this common time and its ill construed values, the company of IVES cast their sashes over their shoulders in preparation to launch a journey, intent upon permeating the purposeless and straying mankind with something a little more fulfilling.

Now, members Jason Tolliver, Kyle Moore, and brothers Drew and Bryce Newman are bringing sounds and melodies to the ears of innumerable musical enthusiasts seeking a new facet of the art form made so monotonous by years of misuse and misfortune; searching to strike a new note among the populace of the western frontier and beyond.

(3) Killer ambient @ soundcloud/ives-1

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ives">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.