There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Ivory is a Cloud Rap/Hip Hop artist and a producer from Sweden. He has released two albums so far: Molnfällan (2013) and Rap Game Jackie Arklöv (2014). The debut Molnfällan and sequel Rap Game Jackie Arklöv hailed both for its innovative sound - tough trap, dreamy cloud rap, Burial-samples - and for Ivory's combination of hypnotic choruses and tight verses.

2) Ivory is an indie/rock/alternative band from Appleton, Wisconsin.  Formerly Waiting For Understanding, they changed their name to Ivory in 2004, changing drummers.  Their first, self-titled EP was released on December 1st, 2005.  Their self-proclaimed influences are Copeland, Coldplay, and U2.  After signing with Carbon Copy Media in early 2006, they had set their sights on recording a new album which they expected to be out in May of 2006. However, after Carbon Copy fell through, the band had to make a decision.  During the summer of 2006, the band as it was once known split up, with two members leaving to pursue other interests. Ivory lives on in the hands of singer Nathaniel Swokowski and drummer Thomas Bishop.  The band is currently unsigned, and playing shows around Wisconsin and the Midwest.

3) Ivory is a dubstep and electronica producer currently based in Paris, France named Andy Caboche. He makes up ½ of the duo The Wizards along with Sean Long (MED).

4) Ivory was a California rock band that formed in the late '60s, making a brief impression before just as quickly disappearing.


5) Ivory is a british breakbeat MC who has worked with the Breakfastaz and Ctrl Z to produce prodigy-style breakbeat/garage tracks infused with rock guitars and fast-delivery lyrics.

6) Ivory is a cover-band from Luster, Norway. They play music from several artist including CCR, Neil Young, and they are very popular locally, where they play at parties, bars and such.

7) Ivory is a metalcore band from Austria. Ivory was founded in October 2005. The members are the ex-members of the bands DECENT (Lacky, Bjoern, Kainzi) and SILENT NOISE PRODUCTION (Dani).

8) Ivory is a hard rock / power metal band from Belarus. Ivory was founded in April 2008. 

After long lasting searching for a suitable bass player they found David to be their bass player. They produced a demo-cd called DARK SUN in July, 2006. After the release of this demo, David left the band after about 10 months of playing. So the band was forced to look for another bass player, who should fit their interests. After a while Flo (former bass player of BEAUTIFUL DAWN) became the missing member in the band and since September 2006 Flo is on the road with them.

This formation is on stage since October 2006 and they played support-gigs for Misery Speaks, Neaera , Caliban, Bleeding Through, All Shall Perish and I Killed The Prom Queen. 
They describe their musical style as Metal/Hardcore/Screamo. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ivory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.