1. The history of the band begins in 1990, when Andre Fischer, Sven Böge and Thorsten Thrunke (with two other musicians) founded the combo under the name AX'N SEX and soon advanced to one of the bright new metal hopes in and around northern Germany. Their self-produced CD "Victim of Time" of four original works (playing time: 32 mins) received a very positive reception, not only in Germany , but also in Europe as well as overseas. Numerous international music magazines waxed lyrically over the album. These were followed by several reviews in Scandinavia, Greece and even in the USA and Brazil. It did appear , however, that the band name did not entirely suit their melodic power metal and conjured up visions of sleaze metal. The musicians were quick to react. After some deliberation the musicians changed the name of the band to the more suitable IVORY TOWER. 
They further polished their style, and made some changes in the line-up. After having been with the band since it´s formation, two of the musicians left their ranks and were soon replaced by Stephan Laschetzki (Bass) and Stephan Machon (Keyboards). This line-up is responsible for all the material on the "Ivory Tower" and the "Beyond the stars" Album. Initial discussions between the band and Limb Music Products and Publishing (LMP) were held in December 1997. LMP had been quick to recognize the enormous potential of the band and offered them a contract. IVORY TOWER present ambitious and high-quality progressive power metal. Their sound is modern, gripping and varied. In March and April 1999 IVORY TOWER supported the album on tour through Germany with "Mob Rules" and "Murder One". 
The recordings for the second album "Beyond the stars" started in summer 1999. IVORY TOWER produced again a monster-piece, released 17th of April 2000. A brilliant album that contains 10 tracks and 63 minutes played music. IVORY TOWER turned to classical, orchestra arrangements, a lot of hard riding guitar riffs and melodic refrains. During that time there were extensive promotional activities all over the world but especially in Paris for the French release under the license label NTS. In 2001 there was the introduction of new band members on bass, drums and keyboards. Stephan M., Stephan L. and Thorsten left the band due to personal reasons. In 2001 we started extensive promotional activities in Sao Paulo/Brasil with the license label "Rock Brigade". The band quited the contract with LMP in 2002.
The band quitted the contract with LMP in 2002. After that, they started the pre-production of the new album with the working title "IT". The recordings started in the new founded Ivory Tower Music Production Environment. The luxury circumstance to record in their studio and so to ignore the time/money factor creates some unexpected effects. The band recorded the music in a relaxed atmosphere and tried different things. The new songs were harder than ever, got orchestral arrangements and breathtaking choirs. Catchy melodies were packed into a interesting concept. A compelling story was embedded within richly diverse power progressive metal. After the recordings IVORY TOWER were searching - again- for a new label. In 2006 Flo Tabbert on drums and Björn Bombach on Bass joined the band. In that year IVORY TOWER rocked the "Headbanger's Open Air" and the "Metal Bash". In 2007 IVORY TOWER were signed by the metal label Pure Steel Records and the actual album" Subjective Enemy" (former known as "IT") were launched worldwide in 2008. After that IVORY TOWER started the pre production for a further 
album. Now after a hard time in their studio: IVORY TOWER MUSIC ENVIROMENT
will still produce a complete different album than those before."IV" is the name of the new monster. It is released in Germany, Switzerland and Austria on the 28th october 2011, all other countries 6 weeks later.
In 2012 a line-up change welcomed Marco Matthies to the band, who plays guitar and keyboards in the band. Now they are 5 weird metal prayers confusing the world around. "Be surprised" thsy said.

2. Melodic Hard Rock band from USA, lead by Mike Wilson. They released "Heart of the City" in 1988 and "Little Bits Of Dreams" in 2004. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ivory+Tower">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.