There is more than one artist named Ixion: 1) French atmospheric doom metal band. 2) Dutch music project. 3) French thrash/black metal band.

1) Ixion is a French atmospheric doom metal band. It was born in 2004 when Julien Prat started to work on his own compositions. During three years, he wrote several tracks from dark and atmospheric music to more classical doom metal. Six tracks were finally selected for the first demo, which combined the doom and atmospheric sides, as well as some electronic and symphonic elements.
From that point, Ixion's music can be linked with some funeral doom metal and gothic doom metal bands, with a particular work on keyboards and ambient soundscapes.
In 2006 Thomas Saudray joined the project, sharing Julien's interest in mixing the genres that compose Ixion's music. They work together on lyrics and vocals. The demo "Through the Space We Die was finished during the summer of 2007 and the first reviews were very positive.
Their first full length album "To The Void" was released in 2011 on the Avantgarde Music label.

2) Ixion is a Dutch music project started by composer, producer, musician and lyricist Jankees Braam. 
Jankees started as bass player in a symphonic rock band called Sangamo where he was member for twelve years. About five years ago he decided to leave the band and start his own project called Ixion. With enough material to complete an whole album he started recording, and with help from a lot of friends from other bands he completed the debut "Cryogenesis". At the same time Jankees also wrote a concept story which spins around a talisman from the past. Beside doing the production and recording, Jankees, played bass guitar, bass pedals, synthesizer, keyboards and some guitar. Beside himself we find nine musicians involved in the project.

Last known lineup:
Michael Hos  (vocals)
Esther Ladiges  (vocals)
Maaike Breijman  (vocals)
Gerton Leijdekker  (guitars)
Jankees Braam  (bass)
Emile Boellard  (drums)
Peter Boer  (drums)
Linde Faber  (cello)
Gerben Klazinga  (hammond)
Martijn Bos (piano, synthesizer)

3) Ixion was a French thrash/black metal band that released two demos, "In Hoc Signo Vinces" (1986) and "The New Chemical Light" (1987), before disbanding. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ixion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.