J-Felix is:

1. A Funk/Hip-Hop Soul and Jazz Musician, singer and producer based in Brighton UK, Releases under his belt such as 'The Green Light feat. jake Jon' on Tokyo Dawn Records, 'Lady T' on the LabelGroovement and 'Move Me' with the Pragmatic Theory Collective.... Also playing with The E.M.E and Alice Russell.... J-Felix continues his career as a Funk/Hip-Hop/Boogie producer as well as a touring musician. 

2. J.Felix (pictured above) is a house DJ from Miami, see bio below....

Spinning records since the age of 13, what began as a hobby quickly became a career. After many years of hard work, in both Miami’s ever-evolving nightlife scene and the recording studio, DJ J Felix has become without a doubt one of the hottest dj’s and producers from Miami. His style is purely defined by the audience he is playing for. Spinning major events and night clubs both nationally and internationally, J Felix declares residency at Miami’s most stylish rooftop located at the famed Gansevoort South Hotel.

At the age of 19, DJ J Felix made a name for himself in the Miami music circuit to earn himself a job at Emilio Estefan’s Crescent Moon Studios and The Crackhouse Studios at Murder Inc. It was those studios he learned to master the intricacies of mixing and recording. No stranger to rocking with the best, DJ J Felix worked his way up to engineering for artists such as Nas, The Neptunes, Ashanti, Ja Rule, Gloria Estefan, Kelly Clarkson, Shakira, Paulina Rubio, and countless others. While juggling his studio sessions and dj Gigs J Felix managed to land himself a 4 year long residency at Nikki Beach Miami, Nikki Midtown, Nikki Marina and Nikki Coconut Grove.

Presently, J Felix has paid his dues and can classify himself a veteran to the scene and a force to look out for in the next few months. He can be found working and collaborating as a writer, programmer, producer, and re-mixer with the Crooklyn Clan's House and Dance division RatedH. As a dj, he accredits his versatile skills as a result of over 14 years on the turntables, as he merges both his technique and style into all genre's of music. Look out for his high energy music and versatile style, because he is just getting started.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/J-Felix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.