In 1992, Jason Jackson, internationally known as J Rocc, launched his vision of forming a DJ crew comprised of talented musicians, by introducing to the world Southern California's first turntable band - the Beat Junkies. A prized accomplishment enthusiastically received by worldwide audiences, J Rocc continues to invent musical styles that display his creative expertise. Highly recognized for his funky showcases and original arrangements, J Rocc has clearly distinguished his place in music history.

J Rocc began his DJ career in 1985 with PSK, a DJ group based out of Huntington Beach, CA. Possessing the imagination and skills to alter the traditional purpose of the turntable, J Rocc applied his artistic talent by using the turntable as his musical instrument. His individual approach towards developing his ingenious collections consists of focusing on smooth, rhythmic transitions and building an energetic vibe. Maintaining the entertainment level plays a major role in producing explosive performances, and J Rocc achieves this excitement and dynamics without "killing" the original recordings.

Heavily influenced by jazz legend John Coltrane, world-renowned Hip-Hop producers Dr. Dre and DJ Aladdin, and the departed Hip-Hop radio show on KDAY (1580 AM) featuring the comedic personality of Russ Parr, J Rocc absorbed their influential contributions to help drive his musical genius.

His striking list of awards and accomplishments demonstrates his excellent ability to apply his creative gift. Collectively, the Beat Junkie band comprised of J Rocc, Babu, Melo-D, and Rhettmatic, claimed the title of International Turntablist Federation (ITF) World Champions two years in a row (1997 and 1998). In 1999, Rawkus Records seeked J Rocc and Babu to join the talented cast of musicians on "Sound Bombing 2", a classic Hip-Hop compilation featuring internationally acclaimed artists including Pharaoh Monche, Mos Def and Common. J Rocc and Babu greatly impacted the production of this project by exhibiting their exceptional turntable talent and musically powerful imaginations.

J Rocc continues to inspire worldwide audiences through his entertaining performances and showcases of musical creativity. In 1998, J Rocc delivered his turntable brilliance and shared the stage with Hip-Hop phenomenons Talib Kwali and Mos Def during the U.S. Coca Cola tour, which included sold-out shows throughout the country. This past year, J Rocc traveled nationwide with Jurassic 5, Dilated Peoples, MC Supernatural, and the Beat Junkie crew on the heavily documented tour entitled "Word of Mouth".

J Rocc's individual discography includes numerous innovations that continue to gain global recognition. In 1999, J Rocc released "Live at the Sex Machine". This masterful compilation highlights J Rocc's skilled application of the group's signature "Beat Junkie Style", in which he precisely blends the musical genres of breaks, Hip-Hop and reggae. In 2000, J Rocc introduced a second volume to this successful project entitled "Sex Machine Today". In this latter release, J Rocc continues to demonstrate his original style of producing illustrious musical arrangements, and repeatedly, is able to capture audiences stemming from diversified realms.

As a leading figure in the media circuit, J Rocc has appeared in all media outlets, both in the national and international markets. Feature stories in publications including the Source, URB, Rolling Stone, and Mass Appeal, highlight his unique achievements and untouchable musical expertise. J Rocc appeared in the internationally respected film entitled "Keepintime" (2001), a documentary created to exemplify the parallel between the art of original drumming and the art of drumming using a turntable as the musical instrument. The film portrayed this relationship by capturing performances by legendary drummers Paul Humphrey, Earl Palmer, Roy Porter and James Gadson, as well as recording the drumming techniques of turntable drummers J Rocc, Babu, DJ Shadow and Cut Chemist.

In 2001, J Rocc released a number of innovative individual and group projects. As the group's "Funky President", he played a major role in the production and delivery of the first Beat Junkie album entitled "Classic Material", which was released last August on the group's newly established, independent record label, Beat Junkie Sound. "Classic Material" features innovative tracks produced and performed by the Beat Junkie artists between the years of 1995 - 2000. Another notable project presented a collaboration between J Rocc and fellow Beat Junkie member Babu, known internationally to the world as the Bumrush Brothers. Together, these talented musicians introduced two timeless masterworks entitled "Gold Chain Music" featuring Planet Asia and Evidence (Beat Junkie Sound), and "X-ecution of a Bumrush", a track from the X-ecutioners' album entitled "Built from Scratch" (Loud Records). In July 2001, J Rocc released "Syndromes Remix", which hit record stores throughout the world and received international praise. This heavily demanded mixtape is a follow-up to his original creation released back in 1995. The audible recordings allow audiences to travel through a musical journey in which they are introduced to music legends, including Roy Ayers, Instant Funk, Minnie Riperton, and Grover Washington Jr.

J Rocc's most recent masterpiece was introduced to the world the latter part of March 2003. "Play This (One)" and "Junkies Pick" released on Stonesthrow Records, are classic compositions written, produced and conceived by J Rocc. This highly anticipated record is just one of several projects J Rocc is set to release in 2003. This year, the "Funky President" is poised to take-off.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/J.ROCC">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.