for japanese band change tag to: Ｊａｃｋｍａｎ
There are three bands by the name Jackman:

1) Strangling one-man basement recordings of pure hate punk.

2) A Norwegian band: 

After working several years with his critically acclaimed, innovative and genre breaking band Wunderkammer, Paal  Jackman decided to break down his musical vision to a solo project. The solo project soon developed into a trio with Paal on guitar & vocals, his brother Morten Jackman on percussion and John Lilja on stand up bass & backing vocals (or yelling to be more precise).

Pål is one of the most intense solo live artists around today. His live set consists of songs from the Wunderkammer back catalogue, mixed with his new songs and an eclectic mix of hand picked cover songs filtered through Paal´s musical vision. 

Jackman released -Jackman EP- in the summer of 2005. His first full-length album with the new trio was released in Norway in April 2006. 

Much thought went into the recording process of the album. Jackman 
wanted to get as close as possible to the sound, atmosphere and intensity of his live shows, and spending a month in a recording studio was definitely not what he wanted. The solution was to record most of the tracks live, some in an regular live settings (live recording at gigs), some tracks was recorded live at their rehearsing space, and a couple of tracks was done in a regular studio setting. The live tracks was recorded and produced by Norwegian jazz artist Frode Gjerstad, using all kinds of old-fashioned equipment that he likes to collect. Later the tracks received some overdubs and careful tweaking in the studio.

Jackman has taken his show on the road, visiting The Roskilde and Spot festivals in Denmark, the Mozaique and Eurosonic Festivals in Netherlands as well as playing support for Kaizers Orchestra in Europe.

OHP: www.jackman.no

3) Ｊａｃｋｍａｎ A Japanese visual kei indie band:

Jackman was formed in 2010 by ex-ダリス/dhalis members Azu, Mike and Roa. 

Vocal：Azu
Guitar：みけ (mike)
Bass：LonLon=Jack・Joker
Drums：ROI

OHP: http://www.jack-man.net/index <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jackman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.