Jack Ü is an American DJ duo, side group and collaborative project, consisting of Mad Decent  founder Diplo and OWSLA founder Skrillex, formed in 2013.They are an EDM act with no specific genre, releasing a variety of genres from trap to house to dubstep.

Jack Ü performed at Ultra Music Festival Miami in 2014. They released their first official single  "Take Ü There featuring vocals from Kiesza on September 17, 2014. Skrillex commented of Jack Ü that he and Diplo will "feature on each other’s tracks, and put out some singles together, but mostly we [Diplo and Skrillex] just like to DJ together [as Jack Ü]." On February 3, 2015, the pair announced that they would be working with Missy Elliott on a remix to "Take Ü There".

Jack Ü’s debut performance took place at the Mad Decent Block Party in San Diego on September 15, 2013, which is a nationwide tour that record label Mad Decent puts together in order to showcase different artists signed to the label. Diplo announced the project by releasing the Mad Decent Block Party lineup with Jack Ü playing at multiple stops on the tour. After some guessing by many of who “Jack Ü” was, Diplo finally came out to reveal that “Jack Ü … means Skrillex and Diplo together”.

The two have worked with each other on assorted projects over the past five years starting with Skrillex singing and playing guitar on a record for Major Lazer, one of Diplo’s other projects. In 2011, Diplo also worked on a song with Skrillex titled “Amplifire” (though it was never completed or released) for Bangarang. They collaborated on a song that combines trap and dubstep elements and features vocals from Korean pop artists CL and G-Dragon titled Dirty Vibe for Skrillex’s album Recess. When asked about how the two ended up forming Jack Ü, Diplo stated that Skrillex "was one of the first producers I met when I moved to LA…we just [have] always been really close musically with our ideas.” The two get together in Downtown L.A or in hotel rooms when on tour to make their songs.

On March 30, 2014 Jack Ü was given an hour-long slot to play at the Ultra Music Festival. The set included a wide variety of genres featuring songs from Skrillex’s then newly released first studio album, Recess, and including some old school hip-hop with DJ Kool’s “Let Me Clear My Throat”.

On December 31st, 2014 Jack Ü headlined a concert at Madison Square Garden. Besides their (Diplo and Skrillex) performance, other performers included A$AP Ferg, Diplo, Skrillex, Rudimental and Yellow Claw. The concert was broadcast live on Yahoo. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Jack+%C3%9C">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.