There are several artists under the same name:

1)Jaded is a three piece hardcore punk band from Zagreb, Croatia. They play a metal infuenced melodic hardcore punk citing Converge as main influence.
They released Self-titled EP in late 2013. Currently in the process of finishing first full lenght and booking shows.
Jaded Bandcamp
Jaded Facebook page

Support Croatian hc/punk scene:
Lack Of Soul
The Rock Flock
Black Sails
Tomorrow We Hunt
Black Gust
Dispro
Hesperian Death Horse
So Untouchable[/url
[url=https://www.facebook.com/PonorHC]Ponor


2) Jaded was a short-lived hardcore band. They released a cassette and a 7" on Witching Hour/Diffusion in 1997. They're great.

3) Jaded is a hard hitting, all female rock band. The members include Julie
Steel on vocals, Britt Lightning on lead guitar, Laurel Wolff on bass and Hillary Blaze on drums. 

Jaded's live show is a
high octane experience, both visually and aurally, that has earned them a
devoted following everywhere they have played. As a result, the band has
already played in support of many national acts including Alice in Chains,
Buckckerry, Damage Plan, Disturbed, George Lynch, Lacuna Coil,
Mushroomhead, Powerman 5000, Yngwie Malmsteen, Crossfade ,Saliva,
Shadowsfall, Shinedown, Silvertide, Skid Row, Stryper, Tesla,WASP, and more.

For more information, visit their site.


4) There are other artists that go by the name of Jaded, most notably an alternative rock band formed in 1996 by former child actress Tina Yothers and her brother Cory. Their sound had similarities to much of the alternative rock that was popular at the time (most closely resembling german band Guano Apes) but with strong pop sensibilities, funk influences and occasional use of brass as well as melodic female lead vocals to set them apart. They released one album in 2000, titled 'confessions'.

5) Another of these was a short lived project for musicians at a music school in Acton (London, UK) in the mid-00's. They were a four piece rock band fronted by female vocalist AJ. The band did well at a 'battle of the bands' competition in London and started gaining a quite a bit of attention from record companies shortly before splitting up. Guitarist Ed went on to be a main part of the band Jack Viper.

6) Jaded was a noisy Norwegian indie rock band formed in the mid 1990's. The band broke up in '99 after two releases, both on vinyl only; the self released 7" "1405" and the "Fluffy EP" on Garralda Records. The members went on working together and later also joined other projects like Serena Maneesh, Infidels Forever, Le Corbeau and The Unmist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jaded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.