Born in Georgetown, Guyana and raised in Brooklyn, NY, Jahdan has long made a name for himself as a gifted and inspiring Reggae/Dancehall/Hip Hop/Dubstep artist - both nationally and internationally. His music has been described as “Urban World Music with a message.” Jahdan’s sense of melody, superb song writing skills and ability to effortlessly cross over genres has solidified his status as a relevant artist in the music industry.

Reggae and Roots fans may know him as a member of the group Noble Society or for his song “Cash Flow” on the Major Lazer project from Diplo and Switch. Jahdan was also a contributing writer and featured artist on Snoop Lion’s ‘Reincarnated’ album which received a Grammy nomination for Best Reggae Album of 2013. He’s featured on “Boulevard”, “Harder Times”, and lends his vocals to “Lighters Up” with Mavado and Popcaan. Hip-hop heads who remember Jahdan from his feature with Smif-N-Wessun on the classic “Sound Boy Buriell” can now hear the long awaited collaboration on their project ‘Born and Raised’ where he’s featured in the video for the single “Shots in the Dark.”

The Blakkamoore Chronicles Tour which began in Miami, FL at the 21st annual 9 Mile Music Festival, made stops in California at the Sierra Nevada World Music Festival, Reggae on the River, Oregon,and Denver. Jahdan's Mixtape ‘Blakkamoore Chronicles Vol. 1:Ready We Gone' gave fans a preview of his new solo Album 'Order of Distinction' released on March 24th 2015. The single and video “For the Children” with Kabaka Pyramid (released Feb. 2014 and a part of this album)  is still gaining worldwide attention.

The first official single from 'Order of Distinction', "Ting Tun Up!" premiered on LargeUp.com and features Lady Leshurr and Melodic Yoza. A video for the next single "Smood Blakk Skin" was filmed in South Florida and will soon be released. Also featured on the album are Lutan Fyah, Pressure Busspipe, Kabaka Pyramid, and Illuminati Congo. A spring tour and plans for a return trip overseas are currently being scheduled to support the album.

“Jahdan Blakkamoore consistently voices thoughtful, positive music that crosses borders and sheds light on the versatility of roots and culture music.” -Level Magazine

Follow on Twitter: @Mr_Blakkamoore LIKE on Facebook: JahdanBlakkamooreMusic IG: JahdanBlakkamoore Visit: Blakkamoore.com 

For bookings: Wayne Henry |R.E.N.U. Music Group | 954-873-3968 | renumusicgroup@gmail.com Twitter: @RenuMusicGroup <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jahdan+Blakkamoore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.