Jai Wolf is an alias of Sajeeb Saha, a producer of melodic, dreamlike EDM who previously recorded under a handful of names, including No Pets Allowed. Actively involved with music since the age of five, when he took up the violin -- in high school, he was a New York all-state performer -- he started making tracks during his teens. In his early twenties, as Jai Wolf, his style stabilized as he gained notice for his remix work. An unauthorized version of Skrillex's "Ease My Mind" impressed the original's maker enough to facilitate a partnership with the OWSLA label. Saha's own track, the bubbly "Indian Summer," was issued on Foreign Family Collective in 2015 and reached number 31 on Billboard's Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart that December. The wistful "Drive," featuring the Chain Gang of 1974, followed in 2016. Saha's notable remix credits also include Melanie Martinez's "Dollhouse," ODESZA's "Say My Name," and Mocki's "Weekend." ~ Andy Kellman, Rovi

Updated 04/23/2022:  You don’t know Jai Wolf like you think you do. After hundreds of millions of streams on indie-dance anthems like “Indian Summer” and “Starlight,” blockbuster festival sets from Indio to India, and co-signs from the likes of Skrillex and ODESZA, it’s clear from the opening notes of Jai Wolf’s long-awaited debut album The Cure to Loneliness that he sees the expectations around his name as an opportunity to challenge convention.
 
The Cure to Loneliness finds Jai Wolf completing his evolution from upstart bedroom remixer to future bass DJ to builder of lush musical worlds. While still very much dancefloor-focused, some tracks on the LP conjure the angular riffage of The Strokes and Phoenix, weave melodies through the sugary happysad of M83 and CHVRCHES, or build up walls of sound like Explosions in the Sky—all while maintaining the melodious polish and evocative groove to which fans have grown so close.
 
“In my heart, this album is me,” says Jai Wolf. “From the sounds to the lyrics, it’s everything that I’ve always wanted to do.” Taking a different approach to many of his contemporaries under the wing of indie darling label Mom+Pop (Courtney Barnett, Flume, Jagwar Ma, Alina Baraz), Jai Wolf largely eschewed singles over the course of two years to patiently craft The Cure to Loneliness. The result is a thoughtfully framed, confidently expressed musical vision that will tug at heartstrings in 2019 and long beyond.
 
The Cure to Loneliness available everywhere April 5th <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jai+Wolf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.