There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Heavy Metal band from Los Angeles
2) Jameson (aka Jamieson) is a UK Garage producer and famous for the 2001 hit "Urban Hero".
3) blues rock band from California founded by Jameson Burt

More info on #1 (the band):
Armed with the attitude of their predecessors, Jameson’s bone crushing groove is the product of five well educated masters with a chip on their shoulder, determined to shred their way onto the metal scene and create some serious waves for years to come. Combining the classic elements of thrash with the up-to-date crush and urgency of the modern metal underground, Jameson creates a universal groove to appeal to any fan of heavy music, anywhere in the world.

Jameson was formed in Hollywood, California in February of 2006, when Musician’s Institute students Dan Ranada and Ryan Dial teamed up with a fellow student and drummer to apply their skills and form a heavy metal band. The trio already had riffs in place when bass player Jay Brennan, a fellow student and Dan’s roommate, joined the group. Within a week, a young vocalist from New Jersey, Matt Bomb, caught the word that a new group would need a singer. Matt and his roommate, a drummer named Chad Keith, joined the party almost immediately.

It wasn’t long before the five-piece had recorded and released their first independent EP, Keep the Change. A title which would prove ironic with the loss of guitarist Ryan Dial happening shortly after that. The EP was a dominating success throughout the LA underground scene, creating a buzz among local fans. Jameson quickly picked up MI graduate Ben Robbins to keep the momentum going. An addition which has defined the band as a headlining force to be reckoned with live and in the studio. As the band became champions in the local scene and on the internet, it aided them in catching a spot on the 2007 Van’s Warped Tour.

The now-complete arrangement once again entered Castle Ultimate Studios in Oakland to record what would become their critically acclaimed first full-length album: Down For the Count . The album seamlessly combined the elements of groove and thrash that Jameson holds close to, and solidified the staying power and relevance of modern American heavy metal. Since its release in May of 2008, the album has become available on CD baby, Rhapsody, iTunes, Napster and even Amazon. com. Also, in keeping with the times, Jameson has become a staple in the Myspace music scene, creating a fan base that spans to four continents and yields hundreds of thousands of listeners worldwide. Locally, the band has become Friday and Saturday night favorites at hometown clubs such as: The Knitting Factory, the Roxy, The Key Club and the Whisky a Go-Go.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jameson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.