Jane Weaver (born 1972 in Liverpool) is an English singer, songwriter and guitarist. Currently residing in Marple, Stockport (a part of Manchester), she is married to DJ and co-founder of Twisted Nerve Records Andy Votel. She has worked alongside Elbow, Doves, Andy Votel and Badly Drawn Boy.

In 1989 Weaver started out fronting Indie rock band Kill Laura who signed to Polydor Records and released two EPs until the departure of their a&r Man. Rob Gretton (New Order's manager and founder of the Hacienda club in Manchester) decided to sign them to his new label Manchester Records after seeing them support indie darlings Marion at the Band On The Wall club in Manchester. After the release of three singles Kill Laura split. Weaver began to release singles under her own name and feature on compilations such as Grand Central Record's 'Central Heating Volume 2' and collaborate with label mates Doves and Andy Votel for Manchester Records until Gretton's untimely death in 1999.

Weaver released her first solo album ' Like An Aspen Leaf' on her own imprint Bird Records through PIAS in 2002. Contributors included Rick Tomlinson (Voice Of The Seven Woods), Sam Yates, Naomi Hart as well as Craig Potter and Richard Jupp from Elbow. The album was given enthusiastic reviews by the press such as The Guardian describing her songs as music for "..heartbroken lovers that twist and turn into fragile but sparkling lullabies". 

Around this time Weaver formed art-pop side project Misty Dixon with friends David Tyack (DOT), Anna Greenwood and Sam Yates. They sign to Twisted Nerve Records and released three EP's and the album 'Iced To Mode'. Before recording was finished, however, David Tyack disappeared whilst on a walking holiday in Corsica. The album was eventually released in 2003 and received critical acclaim by Peter Paphides in Mojo Magazine as "exquisite sepia future pop". David Tyack is tragically discovered dead nearly two years after disappearing in Corsica.

Weaver returned to solo work and released the album 'Seven Day Smile' in 2006 (an album of hand-picked demo recordings from the previous 10 years). The title track features the band Doves and was previously heard on a rare 7" EP called 'Everyone Knows Everyone Else'. Weaver gigged with artists such as Gruff Rhys, Badly Drawn Boy, Josephine Foster and Voice of The Seven Woods.

In 2007 Weaver released an album of new songs, 'Cherlokalate', dedicated to 'absent friends' and is described as "a bittersweet collection of memories". Alongside Andy Votel she curated a 'femme freak folk' compilation album called 'Bearded Ladies' featuring both contemporary and vintage female singers such as Brigitte Fontaine, Susan Christie and Emma Tricca. The album was brought to life after an invitation from Jarvis Cocker to play at his 2007 Meltdown Festival at The South Bank Centre. 'Lost Ladies of Folk' included sets from Bonnie Dobson, Susan Christie and Wendy and Bonnie with Sean O'Hagan and The High Llamas providing the instrumentation. Jane sang with Wendy Flower in replacement of the absent Bonnie.

Under the name Jane Weaver Septième Soeur she released the album The Fallen By Watchbird in 2010, followed by the remix album The Watchbird Alluminate with contributions from the likes of Demdike Stare and The Focus Group.

In 2014 she released the album The Silver Globe, in which elements of space rock and krautrock were combined with her folk style. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jane+Weaver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.