After several incarnations at Purchase College, playing basement shows and campus festivals, Jangula emerged as one of the most celebrated bands in the New York rock circuit. The Brooklyn-based band consists of Johnny Campagna (vocals and Q-Chord, a handheld synthesizer), Daniel Bachrach (vocals and guitar), Cody Gordon (bass), and Barak Kemeny (drums). Performing at diverse venues – Webster Hall, Shea Stadium and the McKibbin Lofts – their versatile sound has led them to open for artists such as Didi of Brazilian Girls, YACHT, and The Postelles.

With the unusual blend of Campagna’s stunning Q-Chord and Bachrach’s often melodic, “warm jets”-inspired guitar riffs, Jangula possesses a rare harmonic quality. Yet, influences ranging from songwriters Brian Wilson and R. Stevie Moore to the minimal sound of Joy Division, their harmony is struck by gritty, driving bass lines and Kemeny’s always frenetic drums. Lyrically, as well, the band differs, preferring both the subtle intimation and the shamelessly honest to explicitly standard comments on life and love: from “We both like me, we both like you” to “I want to be understood, I want to be misunderstood.” Jangula released their first EP in 2010, and currently, they are returning to the studio to record a full-length album, featuring the single “Light Left Hand.”

With their unique sound and reputation for wild shows – and after parties – Jangula knows, ultimately, how to charm and engage the crowd. As Kristen, from The Morning After Pills, writes, “They’ve got an undeniably catchy sound, backed by ace bass lines that are complemented by the saccharine sound of a Q-Chord […] They seem to have an innate understanding of what makes good pop.”

“Jangula use their keys as more than just atmospheric filler, but to carry a pretty melody. They know when to amp up the bass to create an energetic, danceable moment during the bridge. Plus it’s easy to sing along to the lyrics about sublimating sexual urges by playing Final Fantasy games.” — BushwickBK <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jangula">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.