www.janineandthemixtape.com

Janine and the Mixtape

Janine is all about the voice, the beat and honesty. That is the heart of every track. Her voice is full of raw emotion and flawless control. She has the ability to shift between a fierce soulfulness you can hear all the way down the street and a voice so delicate and smooth it feels like she is whispering in your ear. Her influences include the intimacy of Aaliyah, the creativity of MIA and the depth of Notorious BIG.

Singer/songwriter/producer/instrumentalist Janine and the Mixtape combines hard-hitting 90’s hip-hop beats, R&B vocals and intricate synths. She comes from all the way down in New Zealand but is constantly reaching out to a worldwide audience. More than content to think outside the box, Janine approaches the music industry in a way that is refreshing and captivating.

Real life experiences are what drive Janine’s lyrics. Pain, darkness, loss and hope are re-occurring themes. She bares her soul on a regular basis as she uses her sketchbook blog as a place to put up video snippets of production she is working on. It is important to her that fans and the audience are a part of the song writing process.

All aspects of Janine’s musical profile have been personally attended to – she writes all her own songs, produces the beats, designs her own websites, consistently reaches out to her fans through every social media site in existence, handles marketing and even manages to deal with all live bookings. There are few as passionate enough to consistently work with such determination. It’s a hardworking, no bullshit attitude with a bit of cuteness and care.

Her talents and obsessions delve further than just music. She can be found down at the local park shooting hoops, out and about taking photos or kick-pushing on her board to grab a coffee. And all of this in a fresh pair of size 3 high-top kicks.

After playing shows and recording in New York it has become a second home. The response she received in the time she was there was beyond encouraging and helped shape her sound. Within no time she begun to develop a loyal fan base and significant buzz – to the point where she had a show shut down by the NY fire department.

Fans have been drooling with anticipation as she put together 50 different versions of her single and over 100 different cover artwork designs before feeling it was right to share with the world. Janine and the Mixtape is very excited to finally release the debut single and video - Bullets. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Janine+and+the+Mixtape">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.