There are, at least, seven artists known as Jasmine.

1) An rnb / soul / pop singer, from Tokyo.
2) an American pop musician best known for winning Radio Disney's 2009 N.B.T. (Next Big Thing) competition with her hit Single "Make a Movie".
3) A contestant for 2007 Romanian Eurovision pre-selection, with the song Music in My Soul.
4) A band is from the 1970s. It’s one of the earliest groups in which Pelle Miljoona performed. 
5) A Finnish folk singer (Eurovision Song Contest 1996).
6) An up and coming Australian singer
7) A French screamo
8) A Maltese singer who was in Maltese national final for Eurovision 2018.
9) A Japanese idol group under Flourish Entertainment.

1) An rnb / soul / pop singer, from Tokyo, Japan (b. Asumi Murakami, 19 May 1989 - aka ジャスミン). She grew-up in a musical family, regularly singing in a gospel group & was given a Sony BMG Music Entertainment contract, after sending in a demo of her début single, sad to say, in 2009. sad to say topped the RIAJ download charts, upon major label release. It’s being reported as the first time an artist has reached no.1 on the charts, before making their official début, which she achieved a week later, on 24 June 2009. She has also written her own songs, from the start & did all her pre-début promotions, only on the radio, but not much else is known about her.
Sites: En.Wikipedia and Ja.Wikipedia (Google Translate: Ja > En).

2) an American pop musician best known for winning Radio Disney's 2009 N.B.T. (Next Big Thing) competition with her hit Single "Make a Movie".  She was also featured artist for TBN's iShine KNECT, providing the show's original theme song. To date, She has released one album under iShine Records and several standalone singles, including singles that have been featured on major compilation albums and soundtracks. 
Sites: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jasmine_(American_singer), http://jasminesagginario.com/

3) A contestant for 2007 Romanian Eurovision pre-selection, with the song Music in My Soul.

4) A band is from the 1970s. It’s one of the earliest groups in which Pelle Miljoona performed. 

5) A Finnish folk singer (Eurovision Song Contest 1996).

6) An up and coming Australian singer.

7) France produces the amazing Jasmine. Their music is pleasant with nice melodies, while the vocals are harsh and strained. It works well. Elements Of Need hail from America, and their sound is a bit more chaotic and harsh, though they are similar to Jasmine in the fact that it is the vocals that give both bands their harsh and noisy feel. Both bands have their lyrics printed in French and English.

9) JASMINE. is a Japanese idol group under Flourish, founded in 2017 with four members: Mion, Yuuka, Yuri, and Momoka. In March of 2018, Yumi joined the group, making it a five-piece, but in April of 2018, Yuri left the group, bringing it back to four members. They continued as a four-piece all the way to their major debut in September 2018 with their album, Ballet Dolls.
In November 2018, Nanaco and Seria were added, bringing the group to its current six-piece lineup. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jasmine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.