Jassniro is an indipendent music writer of emotional lounge, world music, jazzy club grooves ,based in Rome and active in the production of music in the global scene. He is focusing on various styles such as r&b, hip-hop, jazz,pop, funk,chill-lounge,spoken word, world music, with various arrangements adapted for a distribution on line. 
Jassniro is also a project of multimedia and multi-faceted arts, like when you have your own musical ideas is not always for granted to join by force with others and create a band, but you can also succeed by your own, as soloists, to convey and develop multi-faceted forms in the sense of valid ideas and musical projects ...
"Bearing in mind the arid landscape of nowadays music that is often poor of content, I will do my best in my future musical projects, to recover the sound and style of the past 80's and 90's, rich of sound, excellent musicians and groups , full of originality, intuition, spontaneity .... 
Sincerely with my music production on-line I never claimed to become a star, but more humbly to compose music and be able to broadcast it on radio programs or distribute it online perhaps with the ambition to end to compose some music soundtracks for important films. I realized that the world of music is really challenging, many things have changed comparing to the past, but also to make music with a certain quality, you must have the tools and the knowledge to improve even more the audio quality with the right softwares available in the music market.....
"I do not know .. for me the word "artist" is a bit out of place .. a musician, a composer, is someone that can understand music, and let it enter into his life with more depth than others .. maybe make it as something intimate, it's like for example when you go to the bathroom and shut the door because someone can see you.. ..it's the same thing ... Is it an artist someone who goes to the bathroom?"

WHICH MUSIC DO WE WANT? : 
"The influence of commercial music in nowadays scene is really impressive and too often, in an attempt to maintain a degree of originality and integrity of composition, we end up being overwhelmed by the stereotyped arrangements of big recording studios that impose patterns derived from predestined arrangements, I do not know, for example about the rhythm, the double beat of big drum , or introductions with effects with repetitive and obvious electronic pads, then the eternal dilemma between the artist's personal choice to compose music as a reflection of his personal experiences, his feelings and past life reverberated in music ( or the most specular and materialistic way to compose and produce music just trivially thinking to the music market and the rules imposed by it.) 
From a first approach the key to the success of today's music would be to guess a catchy tune, scan it repeatedly with an incisive voice, and that's it .. then, if you want to create something more personal, critics are often there with their fingers bet to say that perhaps your motives are not that commercial but maybe more suitable to the environment of hotel lounges and elevators, and often might also criticize the sounds choice, to mean that maybe a keyboard can not play a real sax (but I think the problem does not exist, in the sense that many keyboards still in commerce have sampled sounds, and definitely are not casio toys ..), and however, nowadays keyboards, are quite interesting and compelling from the point of view of sound and vibrations ... 
or maybe if you put an item in overtalking, they are there to ask "who was that guy there that came in after the bass, and what did he say in the overtalking ..”. but the point is not to understand what the guy said, but to understand the meaning of music itself..

The risk for those who produce music just for a market, it is to do the same kind of music, always with the same cadences and the same style .. 
the challenge then is to compose and distribute music not only to an orgy of teen- girls with dyed and straight greasy hair , but also for an adult audience, who really knows how to distinguish the genuine musical trends, that might regain the primordial sources of music inspirations with simplicity, such as the jazz ballads, from great orchestras, of old films and soundtracks or whatever, that sounds original though.." 
"I'm just a 'Jass Gladiator' on the music scene, and I'll be carrying on.." 
(My music background): 
"I started playing live in 1990 as the keyboardist of the afro band “Kilimandjaro”, with live concerts all over Italy, & the campaign "Africa for Italy" , to promote ethnic african music , and with the special participation of Mr. Nelson Mandela in Rome at Piazza Farnese. Later on , I joined in Rovereto , the 3 days 'italian gig' " live for Africa", with the participation of artists such as Chala Mouana and Aziz Inanga . 
"My music is made of moments of my life, sparks, pearls from the ocean depths, experimental ideas translated into musical compositions .." 
"I am very attracted by the musicality and charm of the overtalking, so that in most of my compositions there is an overtalking session". 
" I feel like a river in flood, and with so many ideas and arrangements to be recorded, not always having the possibility, like other indipendent musicians, to use big recording studios and instead often a small home recording studio. Of course big productions have great technology available, but I think that with good ideas a musician can give the same message to his public and fans and what matters to me is being able to let other feel the same vibrations I feel inside ...Jassniro vibrations.." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jassniro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.