Originally from San Jose, CA Jasun has been exposed to and has explored countless musical mediums. From the stunning Cinematic Jazz of Pat Metheny and Lyle Mays to Jazz/New Age players Michael Hedges and John McLaughlin, Jasun has absorbed a stunning cornucopia of Jazzs compositional and improvisational lessons. But rock and metal music have also played an important role in coloring Jasuns musical palette. Jason Becker, Marty Friedman and Paul Gilbert have been powerful influences allowing Jasun the opportunity to incorporate a heavier and more assertive dynamic into his melodic scales and rhythmic structures. While Jasun started his musical journey with the piano, the guitar quickly and dramatically became Jasuns instrument of choice. While Jasun worked in a number of early projects to begin his musical career, the first ambitious stepping stone was his involvement in 1994 (along with twin brother and bass guitar player Troy Tipton) in the complex metal unit Zero Hour. The group incorporated Jasuns love of virtuoso musicianship, quick tempo and time changes and compositional originality. They released their self-titled debut in 1998 to critical and popular acclaim receiving write-ups in the American and European press. Their follow-up, 2001s Towers of Avarice was a stark musical vision of a human society gone horribly awry. Released on Sensory/Lasers Edge, the album achieved cult worldwide status as a landmark Progressive Metal opus and again received acclaim in magazines from Germanys Rock Hard to Americas Hit Parader among countless others. Despite the heartening success of Jasuns heavier musical project, he never lost touch of the softer musical nuance inherent in Jazz/New Age music. Indeed, some of those elements are what make Zero Hour such a dynamic and thrilling affair. Nevertheless, Jasun became convinced that now was the time to branch out and create a softer collection of material reflecting a more subtle and nuanced side of his musical personality. Thus Seduction was born. Along with the fretted and fretless bass work of Zero Hour collaborator and brother Troy Tipton, Jasun completed the rhythm section by recruiting the powerful percussive genius of drummers Sean Flanegan (Enchant) and John Perrine (Dalis Dilemma). Both add a distinctive style, touch and flair to the songs they were asked to collaborate on. Jasun himself uses both electric and nylon acoustic guitars along with keyboards to provide a sensual, cinematic and unforgettable melodic flair. Each song communicates a feeling. Contrasts and subtle style shifts create an explosively rich journey, sometimes romantic, sometimes ponderous, always thrilling. Produced by Dino Alden (Zero Hour, Marty Friedman) in his Santa Rosa studios, the ambition, touch, virtuosity, empathy and love flow freely and obviously. Upon hearing the final note, one thing is clear: Jasun has committed to creating music that is communication at a deep and profound level; music that touches you at your core, not only taking the Seduction, but taking your own as well. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jasun+Tipton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.