The acclaim accorded to the pianist Javier Perianes by audiences and critics alike confirms his status as one of Spain’s most exciting new artists. Hugely popular with Spanish audiences, he has a growing international reputation.

Born in Nerva in 1978, he is a familiar and sought-after participant at many renowned festivals within Spain, including those of Santander, Granada, Canarias Perelada and San Sebastián. He has performed in distinguished concert series throughout the world, having made notable appearances in New York’s Carnegie Hall, Concertgebouw Amsterdam, the Tchaikovsky Conservatory in Moscow, the Shanghai Conservatory, Madrid’s Auditorio Nacional, Palau in Barcelona, recitals at the Ravinia and Gilmore International Festivals in Chicago, La Roque D’Anthéron Festival in France and the Konzerthaus in Berlin.       

He has been a frequent prize-winner at competitions, including First Prize and Gold Medal at the 42nd International Competition Premio Jaén de Piano; First Prize at the 8th International Piano Competition Fundación Jacinto e Inocencio Guerrero; and was a prize-winner at the 14th International Competition Vianna da Motta in Lisbon.  

Javier Perianes has worked with leading conductors including Lorin Maazel, Daniel Barenboim, Jesús López Cobos, Antoni Wit, Daniel Harding, Libor Pešek, and Vassily Petrenko. Recent and upcoming engagements include appearances with Spanish National Orchestra under Ilan Volkov, Orchestre du Capitol de Toulouse with Josep Pons, Dresden Philharmonic conducted by Alan Buribayev, Hong Kong Philharmonic with Lü Jia, Simón Bolivar Youth Orchestra with Rafael Frühbeck de Burgos and the Queensland Orchestra under Eivind Aadland as well as recitals and chamber music concerts in Barcelona, Tokyo, Vancouver and his London Wigmore Hall recital debut.

Perianes has received critical acclaim for his recordings on Harmonia Mundi of Schubert’s Impromptus and Klavierstücke and Mompou’s Música Callada. His next disc on this label, scheduled for release in early 2010, is devoted to the keyboard sonatas of the XVIII century composer Manuel Blasco de Nebra. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Javier+Perianes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.