There are four artists under the name of JAW:

1) JAW is a german rap artist from Freiburg, South Germany. JAW stands for "Jonas Andre Willy" which are Jonas Enderle's forenames. He was born in 1983 in Cologne, but soon his parents moved with him to Freiburg.

During his puberty he made painful experiences with his peers later caused ADD (attention deficit disorder) and depressions. Those experiences are also part of his lyrics as a kind of therapy.
With DJ Tjoma and the brothers Maexer und Rynerrr Schrott he formed the rapcrew PCP (meaning Projekt Chaos Punks).



2) J.A.W. - Just A Word; An Irish politically-orientated hip hop/rock/electronica band. 

Excerpt from J.A.W. bio:: 

JAW... formed as a 2 piece early in 2003, wrote and recorded their debut album "Food For Thought" and released it on their own label "Thirty Seven Records" in the spring of 2004. Since then they have evolved into a full live band and have playing constantly for the last year. In their relatively short life span as a live band they have built up a very impressive CV of shows. Last year they supported "D-12", "Lady Sovereign" and "Therapy?" as well as playing the Tenants "ViTal" festival with the likes of "The Darkness" and "Jurassic 5". In 2005 they have played two of the UK's most prestigious festivals, "Glastonbury" and "Donnington (Download Festival)" as well as opening for Jurassic 5 in Dublin. Although busy working on their new album, the summer is already setting hectic schedule with confirmation on this years Fflam festival in Whales and well a two week Irish tour with Mike Got Spiked and Mojo Fury. Compared to the bands previous material, which had been recorded by just two of the now four members, the new material is an overall progression sonically and lyrically. The experience gained over the last two years recording and playing live has helped the band evolve onto a whole new level and proved that their existence in playing something totally unique and original is absolutely necessary! 



3) JAW is a Canadian progressive metal band from Winnipeg.  They have two albums, 'Jaw' and 'Swings Humans'. You can find them on last.fm at http://www.last.fm/music/Jaw_music



4) JAW were a German Electronic / Alternative Band formed in 2000 by Kristian Draude (drums), Pascal Finkenauer (vocals) and Sebastian Steffens (synthesizer). Their Debut Album “No Blue Peril” was released in 2000. They were nominated for "Best German Alternative Newcomer of the Year" at the German Alternative Awards in 2000. They presumably split in 2001(source needed). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/JAW">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.