In a world awash with carbon copy producers, 24-year-old James Cayzer aka Jaytech is a bright exception. Classically trained as a pianist and a perfectionist when it comes to programming, his unique blends of deep melodies and sunny electronic grooves are equally at home in the DJ sets of Sasha or Desyn Masiello as they are in the stadium headlining appearances of Above & Beyond.

 Despite his relative youth, Jaytech’s prodigious creativity and prolific work rate (he started producing at just 14 and released his first track at 16) have seen him rise up as the most consistent artist on the popular Anjunadeep imprint — even releasing the label’s first full artist album through 2008’s ‘Everything Is Ok’ ("Lush, melodic and soaked in electronic groove - a crossover gem" **** -DJ Magazine), and hitting number one in the iTunes dance chart with his Anjunadeep 02 mix compilation in 2010. ("Compilation of the month **** -Mixmag.)

Cementing his position as one of the leading lights within deep, uplifting electronic music, Jaytech’s monthly mix show ‘Jaytech Music’ now airs on radio stations across the globe and is downloaded by thousands as a monthly podcast.  A window into his sound, it’s also the best place to hear Jaytech’s upcoming personal productions before anyone else.

Long chosen as the warm-up DJ of choice for Above & Beyond, Jaytech is now taking off as a headline DJ in his own right. Chosen to headline the Anjunadeep room at Anjunabeats' flagship party at this year’s Miami WMC, he remains the number one headline DJ within the core Anjunadeep family.

 Proof of his rising stock behind the turntables, a packed DJ diary has recently taken in dates at Ibiza’s Amnesia and Japan’s world-famous Womb. In the past year he has also traveled the vast corners of his Australian homeland with the Future Music Festival and taken his uplifting and perfectly paced sound on tour in America — both as support to Above & Beyond and on his own solo tours.

Often uplifting but never obvious, Jaytech is a force on an unstoppable rise right now. And his journey is only just beginning.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jaytech">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.