Jazmine Sullivan is an American R&B/Soul singer-songwriter born April 9th, 1987 from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S. She cites Brandy, Kim Burrell, Lauryn Hill, and Mary J. Blige as influences.


Her debut album, Fearless, was released on September 23, 2008. It spawned the hit singles Need U Bad, Bust Your Windows, and Lions, Tigers & Bears. Upon its release, Fearless received generally positive reviews from most music critics who complimented its production and Sullivan's vocals, comparing her to female R&B artists such as Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill. The album earned Sullivan seven Grammy Award nominations and has sold 517,000 copies in the United States and since been certified Gold by the RIAA for exceeded sales of 500,000.


Sullivan released her second studio album Love Me Back on November 29, 2010, by J Records. Sullivan co-wrote the album with producers Missy Elliott, Ne-Yo, No I.D., Los da Mystro, and Salaam Remi, among others.

The album debuted at number 17 on the Billboard 200 and sold 57,000 copies in its first week. It produced two singles, including the lead single Holding You Down (Goin' in Circles), which peaked at number three on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs. Love Me Back received universal acclaim from music critics, who praised its songwriting and Sullivan's singing. It received a Grammy nomination for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance for "Holding You Down" and has since sold 300,000 copies.


In January 2011, Sullivan announced via Twitter that she was indefinitely leaving the music industry saying, "I promised myself when it wasn't fun anymore I wouldn't do it. And, here I am. I'm not saying I won't ever sing again in my life because I don't believe that. But in this moment… right now…  got some things to figure out". On October 7, RCA Records announced it was disbanding J Records along with Arista Records and Jive Records. With the shutdown, Sullivan (and all other artists previously signed to these three labels). 


In 2014, she returned to music with the announcement of her new album, Reality Show. In an interview with Billboard, Sullivan described her return as inevitable, saying she "...can't escape [her] calling".  She based Reality Show on watching reality shows during her hiatus which inspired the namesake. The album consists of 14 songs, and features production from Key Wane and Salaam Remi. 

The lead single "Dumb", featuring American rapper Meek Mill, was released on May 12, 2014. The song debuted at number 45 on the R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay. The second single "Forever Don't Last" was released on September 16, 2014. It debuted at number 10 on the Adult R&B Songs.

On January 13, 2015, Jazmine Sullivan released her third studio album Reality Show to widespread critical acclaim, with the album reaching #1 on the Billboard R&B Albums and #2 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums. The album earned Sullivan three Grammy Award nominations for Best Traditional R&B Performance and Best R&B Album. It has since sold 200,000 copies.

Sullivan was a co-writer for four songs on Mary J. Blige's 2017 album Strength of a Woman, and sang backup vocals on the first three of them: "Thick of It", "Set Me Free", "Glow Up", and "Thank You."

In 2017, Sullivan released the single Insecure with Bryson Tiller for the soundtrack for the second season of the HBO series of the same title. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jazmine+Sullivan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.