Who can actually claim to have arrived in heaven during one’s lifetime? Jean Elan sees his life in the urban jungle of Berlin as a heavenly Artists’ El Dorado. Once in a while he enjoys a flirt with other built-up and densely populated capital cities, sometimes during weekend trips or at the latest when he is visiting for a DJ gig.

People, art and everyday life during his daily, or nightly, dose of “concrete fever” in his beloved metropol Berlin incite him to new creative ideas. This multi-cultural melting pot is a constant source of inspiration. His creative cell lies in the heart of Berlin – it is here where Jean Elan, producer of several of the most successful House and Dance tracks, has found his perfect oasis for ideas.

With every step he draws not only life-giving breath but the renowned and much acclaimed “Berliner Luft” (Berlin air), which has always smelt just that little bit different from everywhere else in the country – it’s really splendid air – in fact just the right kind of climate for artists like Jean, who quickly discovered his taste for electronic music and has achieved international releases for numerous projects.

His bold releases can be found in the midst of the present genre of electronic club music – slightly minimal but with a good helping of House music – and then combined with the right kind of groove. His correct formula is, of course, a well-kept secret!

Influenced by the culture and people of Berlin, Jean Elan masters the thin line between hype and coolness – his productions fill the dance floor – and not just here in Germany, but it is particularly the extremely varied lifestyles of our capital city Berlin which deliver the stuff from which dance floor dreams are made; the sound and tempo of large metropolises can be felt in his tracks, whether it is, for example Moscow or New York, both of which are places he has learned to love. Thanks to his very open-minded and interested character he has not only been given awards for his productions, but he has gained much acclaim through his long-standing advisory position with the record label, Ministry of Sound.

Jean’s curiosity and love for life are expressed in his releases, proven in his extremely successful year of 2008, which started with the acclaimed debut Single/remix “Where’s Your Head At” and continued with the equally exciting remix work for the Swedish “House Mafia” Steve Angello & Sebastian Ingrosso on their hit “Partouze” This was followed by Jean Elan’s version of the Norman Doray track “Krystal”, giving the track an especially cool groove without taking away any of the charm of the original version. Proven to be incredibly active in the studio, he just needs to hear the pulse of the bass lines and his fingers start itching with the next hit! That’s the reason that he never lets anyone take his place in the driver’s seat at the studio’s controls. And rightly so – the trio Dahlbäck, Diaz & Young Rebelz Feat. Terry B! owe their huge success in the clubs last year to his feeling for a hit – Jean Elan’s phatt version of “Can’t Slow Down” (Morphine), also produced in 2008, is still so danceable that no record case should be without it. Jean’s second solo Single “Shake Me” catapulted him onto the main floor decks at numerous events. His constantly growing fan community also loves his remixes of Dinka’s “Canonball”, released in 2009 - a powerful track full of synth harmonies and his version of Voodoo & Serano’s “I Stand Alone” – minimal meets Party House. He caused a stir with the remix he made for Roykskopp of their Single “The Girl And The Robot”, also released in 2009, on which all the buttons were firmly pressed but through which it is lent an air which is almost “club romantic”! Then back in a completely different direction, with a thoroughly Berlin sound – Jean Elan’s remix for Jeanette of “Material Boy (Don’t Look Back)”. He laid out a thick red bass carpet for her vocals, to which one can really keep on dancing.

Jean’s own new Single “Killer” does not spare on phatt basses, on wild technoid breaks or unrelenting minimal sounds – it’s a real vinyl gangster.

All these developments fit in with his Jean Elan’s life in Berlin, which remains exciting and eventful, perhaps even a little wild and slightly crazy, however this global player still believes in the communication of apparent opposites and even when his working day is done, he still looks forward to exciting acoustic stimuli, whether in a relaxing way, with the audio-book of a current bestseller or, more extremely, at the weekend in one of your favourite clubs – naturally at the controls!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jean+Elan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.