The world of Hip-Hop found itself at a crossroad. At a time when critics, lyricists and rappers all attested to the fall of Hip-Hop, 22-year-old Jeff Chery set a clear path and emerged with a fiercely unique sound and spit lyrics that offered a patently fresh and honest perspective. The stage name Pay$oz was originally what Jeff Chery went by until he decided that using his government name would create more of a mystery behind his music, due to him not having any particular style as a musician.

“Going Against the Grain” is Jeff Chery’ most recent project. He is with Hip-Hop stalwart Sam Sneed, who produced songs for 50 Cent, Dr. Dre on the iconic “Keep Ya Heads Ringing,” Tony Yayo, and a number of other artists. His production team also includes Lee Hendrickson, Joel Mullis, and Graig Mason. The first single from the album is the much anticipated ode to sexy moms across the nation, “M.I.L.F.” The album is set to release later this year.

With over 200,000 plays on MySpace and over 10,000 downloads, Jeff Chery has garnered much attention from the Hip-Hop blogosphere. Receiving accolades from industry critics such as Ragonmagazine.com, Raptalk.net, and Rapmullet.com Jeff Chery has cemented his place as an artist with staying power. Hitting stages up and down the East Coast, patrons of ATL’s Fox Center's Egyptian Ballroom, NYC’s Guest House in, Cafe 290, T.I's Club Crucial, and NYC’s L.I.U have had a chance to witness firsthand the skill and versatility of Jeff Chery’s rhymes.

Jeff Chery has collaborated with Konvict Music’s Ray Lavender on “Champion,” Prince artist Tamar Davis on "Super Girl," DJ Clue's artist Ransom on "theory," F.L.Y whose had the number one single in the country “Swag Surfin” on “Big Face Money” and Universal Recording artist Vic Damone on "I pop,".

Jeff Chery recently signed a production deal with Oceans 87 Music group. They are currently in the process of discussing a distribution deal with a major label.

Launching his own company, TeamRsinal Inc., Jeff Chery stormed the Hip-Hop underground with a steady stream of mixtapes showcasing his talent. 2005 saw his first project “Ahead of the Game.” In 2006 Jeff Chery released the much anticipated “Last of a Dying Breed,” receiving acclaim from MTV’s Mix Tape Monday as one of “the hottest mix-tapes in the streets right now.” With the release of “Cheating on New York” in 2007 Jeff Chery was able to demonstrate his lyrical versatility and ability to craft an authentic sound. 2008 was a year of growth for Jeff Chery. His evolution as an artist was showcased in his fourth effort, “The Corporate Take Over.” “The Corporate Take Over” has been immensely successful, generating numerous itunes sales. The mixtape is more than just a title for Jeff Chery. It has become the template that guides his success and embodies his philosophy regarding his career as an artist and entrepreneur.

Music fans with their ears tuned to Hip-Hop beware; the sounds of Jeff Chery will be invading your stereo at a club, in a car or on a street corner near you. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jeff+Chery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.