Singer/songwriter Jennifer Paige was born in Marietta, Georgia, United States, in September 1973. She released her first album in August of 1998, which included her signature hit, "Crush". The self-titled album also contained follow-up singles "Sober" and "Always You". 

Taking a few years away from the music scene to work on new material, Jennifer released her second studio album, Positively Somewhere, in September 2001. This album featured a more mature pop-rock sound, but went virtually unnoticed in the U.S. after its release due to lack of promotion on her label's part. It wasn't until its European and Asian release in the summer of 2002 that it achieved some success, thanks to the modest hit "Stranded", a cover of the Plumb song. Following the release of this album, Paige parted ways with her label, Edel. As a result, her former label released a compilation record in 2003 called Flowers - The Hits Collection, which comprised all of Paige's singles alongside a selection of other material lifted from her first two albums.

It wasn't until April 2008 that Jennifer Paige released her follow-up album, Best Kept Secret. Released in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland in 2008 through her new label GLOR Music Production GmbH, it included the singles "Wasted", "Underestimated", and the Nick Carter collaboration "Beautiful Lie".

A few years later, Paige collaborated with Coury Palermo for a couple of EPs but returned to her solo ventures for her first Christmas album, Holiday. Released in November 2012, it featured original seasonal material along with reworkings of old classics.

Following a successful kickstarter campaign, Paige released her fifth studio album in March 2017. Originally called Daydreamer, it was eventually renamed Starflower, and includes the single "The Devil's in the Details". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jennifer+Paige">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.