There are two artists using this name:

1) Jenny Lane from Amsterdam, the Netherlands
www.jennylanemusic.com

2) Jenny Lane from Los Angeles, USA
www.myspace.com/onejennylane

1) As winner of the Talent Night Rotterdam (2007) Jenny went to the Amateur Night in the Apollo Theater in Harlem, New York City. It is one of the most famous music halls in the United States.
While the regular line-up consists almost exclusively of mostly African-American performers and public, they where skeptical when the frail girl came up. She was even booed at before she had sang a word!
But after hearing her soulful performance of 'And I am telling you', she received a standing ovation and won.

The 25th of September 2009 she released her debut , "Monsters".
The release of Jenny Lane’s soulful debut album  has set the career of this ‘petite femme fatal’ on a tempestuous course.  Its a colourful and eccentric mix of pop and soul.  

She has performed in the Apollo Theatre in New York, has been a guest in various radio and TV shows and already has three successful singles to her name. \ She has performed at the Eurosonic Festival and has been invited by Joss Stone as a support act through Europe.

 With her characteristically voice (crystal-clear yet powerful) Jenny Lane never fails to capture the hearts of her audiences. Her individuality, theatricality, creativity and humour, highlighted by her super live band, carries them along with her on an intimate yet exuberant journey. She sings her ass off, straight from the heart, naturally and authentically, with an ease that gives you goose bumps.    

Get to know this young, cheeky lady, whose original style and fantastic voice surprises everyone.  

2) "I don't need a music scene to tell me who I am," says 23 year old singer-songwriter Jenny Lane. Putting her heart and soul into her voice since a young teenager, Lane is poised and ready to make her mark on the ever changing, ever evolving music scene. Packing up her bags and making the move to Los Angeles just over a year ago, Jenny has carefully prepared herself for this moment.

Growing up in suburban Spring Lake, New Jersey, Lane was the center of attention since day one. After noticing Jenny had a voice after a performance on the fireplace Christmas morning in 1991, Jenny's mother Marcy enrolled her in a regional theater company. After hitting high school, Jenny starred in such productions as "Children of Eden," "1776," and "A Funny Thing Happened On The Way to the Forum." With high school graduation rapidly approaching, Jenny was faced with the decision of college or following her dreams in LA. She chose to put her dreams on hold and to finish school and enrolled in East Carolina University. For 3 years, Jenny played the local open mics and bars, slowly gaining notiriety in the small town of Greenville, NC. During her junior year, she decided to audition for "American Idol." Jenny auditioned in Chicago, Illinois with nearly 15,000 other hopefuls. After successfully making it past the first round with just around 400 other auditioners, she faced the executive producers of the show. They seemed to like Jenny's quiet confidence and unique look and passed her onto the next round to face Simon, Paula, and Randy. Jenny ended up being one of the 30 auditioners sent to Hollywood. While in Hollywood, she successfully made it to the final 50, and was part of just 10 auditioners left from the Chicago auditions. Jenny saw the experience as a learning and growth experience, and vowed to move to Los Angeles to pursue a career after graduation. After graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Public Relations in May 2007, Jenny began to plan her move, but not before capturing the title of LBIdol, a New Jersey Idol-like competition. She walked away with an all expenses paid vacation to the Dominican Republic.

Jenny arrived in Los Angeles in March 2008. Upon arrival, she auditioned for such shows as MTV's "Starmaker" and Fuse TV's "Redemption Song," where she made both shows' last round of auditions. After realizing that she didn't fit on reality television, Jenny focused more on her songwriting and started playing out around the SouthBay and Hollywood. On April 21st, 2009, Jenny won the SouthBay SingOff. Jenny describes her sound as honest, real, and at times, heartbreaking. The inflections in her voice showcase that of truth and believablilty. With influences of rock icons such as Stevie Nicks, Steve Perry, Janis Joplin and Patti Smith, Jenny hopes to establish herself as a true unique voice in a sea of soundalikes. With every show, she showcases her intense passion for song, as well as captivating the listener with her piercing vocals. She may be a "newbie" on the LA music scene, but Jenny Lane is staking her ground and is here to stay.
*Season 5 top 50 finalist of FOX's AMERICAN IDOL
*2009 SouthBay Sing Off WINNER
*2007 LBIdol Winner
*2006 Horizon Young Talent <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jenny+Lane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.