Jeremy Phillip Felton (known professionally as Jeremih, born July 17, 1987 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American R&B singer-songwriter, rapper and producer. Jeremih began playing drums at the age of three and is able to play the saxophone, several percussion instruments and piano/keyboards. He attended Morgan Park High School, where he was part of the marching band as well as a Latin jazz band. He also learned to play percussion instruments like congas and timbales. Felton was a good student and earned academic honors at Morgan Park High School. His strong academic performance enabled him to graduate from high school a year early. He enrolled at the University of Illinois and Parkland College in Urbana-Champaign. After spending a semester at the university studying engineering, he wanted to change his education to something related to music. He transferred to Columbia College Chicago in 2007 to pursue a degree in music business. After performing a tribute to Ray Charles at one of the campus's talent shows, he received positive feedback and realized his vocal ability, saying that the "music was just taking over".

With guidance from his cousin Willie Taylor, of Day26 fame, as well as producer Mick Schultz (who Jeremih met during his time at Columbia College Chicago), Jeremih released his debut single Birthday Sex in March 2009, peaking at number four on the Billboard Hot 100. His self-titled debut album was released in June 2009, and debuted at number six on the Billboard 200. His second studio album, All About You, was released in September 2010, featuring guest appearances from Ludacris and 50 Cent.

In December 2011, Jeremih confirmed work on a third album originally entitled Thumpy Johnson, and would later release his first mixtape Late Nights with Jeremih in August 2012. After the release of his collaborative EP No More with producer Shlohmo, Jeremih would change his album title to Late Nights: The Album in August 2014, releasing the EP N.O.M.A [Not on My Album] that same month. With no announcement or promotion prior to the release date, the album was finally released on December 4, 2015, featuring guest appearances from J. Cole, YG, Ty Dolla $ign, Migos, Future, Big Sean, Feather, Juicy J, Twista and Jhené Aiko.

In February 2016, Jeremih confirmed his fourth album title as Later That Night, intending to be another instalment in his Late Nights series. During this year, he released another mixtape entitled Late Nights: Europe and would tour with fellow R&B singer-songwriter PARTYNEXTDOOR, with a project between the two being teased. However, Jeremih was later removed from the tour due to issues between the two artists. By the end of that year though, he would then collaborate with Chance the Rapper for a Christmas project entitled Merry Christmas Lil Mama, which was reissued two more times in 2017 and 2020 with new tracks.

In February 2017, Jeremih released the upcoming album's planned lead single "I Think of You" featuring fellow singer Chris Brown and rapper Big Sean. Three months later, the singer then recorded and released an EP entitled Cinco De MihYo, celebrating the annual Mexican/American tradition. This was followed by another EP in March 2018 entitled The Chocolate Box, as well as his collaborative album with Ty Dolla $ign, MihTy in October of that year.

In November 2020, Jeremih was hospitalized in Chicago after testing positive for COVID-19. By November 14, he was reported to be on a ventilator in the intensive care unit. He was taken off the ventilator on November 19 but remained in critical condition. His spokesman said Jeremih has no underlying conditions. Jeremih was transferred out of intensive care on November 21, into a general hospital to make a full recovery. He was released from the hospital on December 4, 2020. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jeremih">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.