Jeremy Sylvester is a highly influential and prolific uk garage and house producer. As well as his famed solo work, he claims a huge backlist of remixes and has been a regular collaborator with many established dance producers.

He also previously dabbled in jungle/drum and bass production in the early 1990s before his more permanent venture into mid-tempo dance music.

Jeremy is known almost as well for the number of aliases he uses as he is for the quality of his output. In alphabetical order, the following is a list of known pseudonyms he has assumed to release tracks:

24/7
Big J
Champagne Bubbler
Club Asylum (previously a duo alongside Paul Emanuel)
Darkus
Deep Cover Inc
Dirty Life
Dub Foundation
Dubtronix (occasionally with his father Charles Sylvester)
Electronica
En'Lock
Everyday People
Freak Da' Funk
G.I. Sly
Global Rhythm
Groove Committee
Groove Connektion
The Hornet
J & S
Jazz Mondo
M.F. Project
Miles Fontaine
New Age
Phat Kat Inc.
Pure Orange
Sly
Socafrica
Strickly Dubz
Tweaker Pimps
Urban Dubz

As a collaborator, Jeremy featured in the following projects:

24Hour Experience with Large Joints (Mike Millrain)
3-Play with Danny Loughran & Adrian Hibbert
Ambassadors Of Sting with Paul Benjamin
The Asylum with Paul Emanuel
Boogie Masters with Large Joints
C.I.D. with Large Joints
Class A with Paul Emanuel
Dub Syndicate Productions with Paul Benjamin & Antonio (Matt Antonio Noble)
Feela with Victoria Horn
G.O.D. with Large Joints
Good Karma with Paul Emanuel
Housebreakerz with Mark James & Nathan E. Drake
Juice String with Mark James & Charlotte Hodson
Lap Dance with DJ Disciple (David Banks)
Sly & Poolio with Paul Emanuel
Sly Paul with Paul Benjamin
Studio Pressure with Dominic B (of Stanton Warriors)
Sunsonik with 009 Sound System (Alexander Perls)
Their's Only One with Paul Benjamin
Twyce As Nyce with Paul Benjamin
X-Factor 7 with DJ Disciple <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jeremy+Sylvester">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.