Jerkstore were formed in 95 under the moniker Delhi Download. The initial line-up consisted of Stefan (drums) and Keld (vocals) along with a guitarist (Leif Mygind) and a bass player (Kasper Molin). They recorded a demotape and shortly after threw Molin out of the band.
In the autumn of '95 Leif convinced Lars (bass) to join. In the Spring of '96 the band recorded another demotape and a demo-cd followed in the fall. '97 saw a lot of changes. The original guitarist split the band, and a new guitarist joined: Henrik. At the same time Keld also picked up the guitar, already having played for years. The sound was toughened up and the bandname was changed to Jerkstore inspired by an episode of American sitcom Seinfeld.

After having cut a demo in '98 that only a few selected people received but nevertheless resulted in rave reviews, Jerkstore headed for the studio and recorded their debut-album in 13 hectic days. It was the summer of '98. The outcome: Anti-Jukebox.

The band spend a year shopping the album. They received airplay on national Danish radio. For six weeks the song the Non-existent was placed on the chart for unsigned bands that deserved a recorddeal. It was the Spring of '99.
In the beginning of the Summer, the band was a offered a deal by Danish label Might Music. Anti-Jukebox was released on the 4th of October to critical aclaim on the Mighty Music sub-label Drug(s).

A year later the band was set for the release of their second album Hard Words Softly Spoken in Denmark. It was released in Scandinavia and Japan in the Spring of 2001 with the rest of Europe to follow late in the summer.

Jerkstore did some extensive touring after the release both within Denmark and abroad. Besides the danish tourdates a minitour in the U.K. was on the map. The U.K. tour was done in support of the airplay they received on the radio station TotalRock (the song "The road to Shangri-La" was on A-rotation for 10 weeks straight). The heavy touring activity landed supportslots for among others Therapy?, Sea of Green, Liberty 37 to name a few plus a gig at the prestigious Danish festival Spot.

Initial recordings for a third album began October 2002.
In late 2003 Jerkstore and Henrik Juul parted ways due to large geographical distances which complicated the creative processes. Auditions were held and Dennis Bach was hired for the job as guitarslinger.

Jerkstore released their third album in Denmark in June 2004. And in the rest of Europe in 2005.

In January 2005 Jerkstore began work on their Fourth album, The Dream Society. It was completed in July. In January 2006 Jerkstore signed a 2-album deal with Greek label Sleaszy Rider Records.

--This Bio is taken from: http://jerkstore.dk/bio.html
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jerkstore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.