There is more than one band called JerK:

1. Jerk is an industrial metal band from Sydney, Australia, comprised of Johnathan Devoy (vocals), Lamar Lowder (drums), Charles Cilia (guitar) and Leeno Dee (bass).

They released a self-titled 6 track EP in 2001, which led to an appearance at the long-running Metal For The Brain festival in Canberra in 2001, and in April 2002 were signed to Sony Records.

Their full-length debut album, When Pure Is Defiled, was released in 2003. Music videos were produced for "I Hate People Like That", "Just What You Need", and "My Friends All Lie". These videos received heavy rotation on popular Australian music television station Channel V and the band has also played live on that channel.

The band embarked on a national tour in 2003 to promote the album, and performances included a support slot for Marilyn Manson, Insane Clown Posse, Killing Joke and Disturbed on the Sydney leg of their Australian tours. They were also set to perform again at Metal For the Brain but later withdrew.

Jerk's first exposure to the North American market came when their song, "Sucked In", featured in the soundtracks of the video games NHL 2004 and Need for Speed: Underground.

The band has since broken up, but a few of the members (Jonathan [original vocalist], Charles, and Leeno) have teamed up with Zotty Cilia (drummer) and Brendan Marcii Ebens (guitars) to become Ink. Sounding very different to their original band Jerk, they have mainly lost thier industrial roots.

Ink has since release an EP and one studio album, Black Water Reign.

2. JeRK is a tardcore band from Union County, New Jersey, USA. To date they've released two full-length albums and an unfinished space opera. They are currently working on a fourth full-length album and "things are going poorly."

3. Jerk is a Thrash Metal band from Switzerland.

4. Jerk was a noise rock band that released albums on labels Tower Control, Banana Seat Girl, and A Soundesign Recording, and released a compilation on A Soundesign Recording. Jerk consisted of Adrian Bertolone, Justin Coulter, Mike Dobrinic, Erick Hughes and David Russell.

5. Jerk is a electronic/speedcore/neo-techno duo #DESTROYEDM <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jerk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.