Formerly with the San Diego Glam rockers "Foxy Roxx". the Las Vegas bands "OUTTA THE BLACK", "OBSTRUCTED VIEW", "CYANIDE" and "SMASHING ALICE", Jerry Vayne is now a malevolent force in the musical realms of the Haunt Industry.

Welcome to the “Haunt-Strumetal”™ world of The Haunt-Strumetalist, Jerry Vayne.

In 2008, a new musical specter “materialized” into the Haunted Attraction Industry… gouging his way into the Haunted Attractions of the nation

His focus? To change the traditional haunt music of the industry on its’ ear by creating his own brand of “Haunt-Strumetal” ™ soundscapes.

Starting with Rotting Flesh Radio’s “RFR Presents: Dark Pandemonium "A Descent into the Labyrinth of the Mind"), the 18-track Dark Carnival/Vampire concept CD “Damnations Embrace”, the re-envisioning of the Midnight Syndicate’s classic “Shadows” for the sound track CD “The Dead Matter: Original Soundtrack” (Winner of the 2011 Golden Cob for "Best B-Movie Soundtrack"), the abomination “Soul Collector”, the dark, demented corners of "The Attic", the audio infection of "Virus 308", the hidden bodies of the swamp in "Bodies of the Bayou" and the sinister sideshow of "Circus of Nightmares" as well as custom tracks for the Toxicity Haunted Attraction, Wells Township Haunted House, The Voice from Hell, Screamline Studios, Horrorchicks.com, as well as custom music and exclusive music of Hundred Acres Manor", the Haunt-Strumetalist has slowly infested his aural apparitions into the haunts around the globe.

And the chaos continues with the release of "Blackmoon Asylum"... the newest release of symphonic metal to assault your senses!

Discography

Damnations Embrace - 2009
The Attic - 2011
Virus - 2013
Bodies In The Bayou - 2014
From Darkness... They Become! Vol: 2 - 2014
Circus Of Nightmares - 2015
Blackmoon Asylum - 2017 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jerry+Vayne">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.