There are three bands under the name "Jersey" and one solo artist. The first being the Canadian Punk band, the second being a German Indie Band, the third being a Croatian Hard rock/Heavy metal band and the solo artist being Hey Monday's bassist Michael "Jersey" Moriarty (better known as Mikey Mo). 

German Jersey:

Jersey are new, though not unknown in the closely knit musical network spanning from Berlin to Munich. 

The band's members are: Marion Gerth and Florian Zimmer, two ex-members of Fred Is Dead while the latter now plays with Iso68, Max Punktezahl, who is known for his guitar work in bands like Contriva and The Notwist, Noel Rademacher, who just has released his solo debut as a songwriter on Lok Musik ("Wrong Places") and last but not least Andreas Haberl - Germany's best drummer as Notwist's Markus Acher says. 

Jersey released their first song on Hausmusik's 10th anniversary compilation, followed by a remix for Ms. John Soda. Now this "great all star project" (Intro) has released its debut album, simply titled "Jersey". During the recording process, Jersey have been supported in the studio by a row of good friends like Christoph Brandner (LALI PUNA), Thomas Meinecke (F.S.K), Marion Dimbath (MERRICKS), Robert Merzdow (HELLFIRE) et al.

Additional pictures, info and songs available at their Myspace page, or the band's website in German (DE) or English (EN).

Canadian Jersey:

Jersey was a Burlington, Ontario ska/punk band from 1996-2005. In 1997, the band released a demo tape which they sold at local concerts. The band had immediate hype partially due to frontman Taylors previous band - Grade.

The band was quickly signed to Southern Ontario punk label Raw Energy and released No Turning Back in 1998. American record label Fueled by Ramen put out the bands second major release The Battle's Just Begun a year later. The band began touring Canada and the US heavily in support of the album as well as 2001's release Definition. Enough interest was generated to interest Virgin Records.

The band singed to Virgin in 2003 and producer Dan Brodbeck (Headstrong, Garnet Rogers) signed on to produce Jersey's fourth album, Generation Genocide. Generation Genocide was released in Fall 2003. The album was released in the United States in the Spring 2004.

In 2005, they announced they were splitting up citing a desire to go in different directions musically.

See Wikipedia page for the band.

Croatian Jersey 

Jersey was a hard rock/heavy metal band from Rijeka (Croatia) in the mid and late 80's. The band was mostly known for their skilled singer Žanil "Žak" Tataj who was later a member of a well-known Bosnian hard  rock/heavy metal band Divlje Jagode and also has been working with famous heavy metal bands named Helloween and Gamma Ray.

Michel "Jersey" Moriarty

After releasing an EP in 2009 under his former artist name Mikey Mo, The Hey Monday bassist Michael Moriarty began writing and releasing new music under his more well known name Jersey.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jersey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.