Jesse Malin (born January 1968 in New York City) is an American singer-songwriter who started his performing career at the age of 12 in the 1980s in the New York hardcore band Heart Attack. After that Malin was the original frontman for the 90's punk/hard rock band D Generation. After that band broke up in 1999, Malin formed the alt. rock band Bellvue before he began to work on solo material. Malin's solo songs have displayed such influences as Paul Westerberg, Bruce Springsteen, and Neil Young. In 2010, he formed a band called Jesse Malin & the St. Mark's Social and later the same year released as single as a member of  Rodeo Queens.

In going solo, Ryan Adams, an old friend, was impressed by Malin's songs and offered to produce a record for him, in spite of having never done it before.  Malin's debut, "The Fine Art of Self Destruction," was made in just under a week, and was released in January, 2003.  He toured both the US and the UK in support of the album.  

Malin's follow-up, "The Heat," was released in June, 2004.  He released his third solo album, "Glitter in the Gutter," in March, 2007.

In 2010, Malin formed a band called Jesse Malin & the St. Mark's Social and released an album called Love It To Life; the title comes from a quote by Joe Strummer (the title was previously used on a 2007 UK release of live material on the One Little Indian label.) Featuring a more rockier approach, the album's first single was "Burning The Bowery" and next single was "All The Way From Moscow." Love It To Life was referred to as "the best album of his career" by Paste Magazine.

In December 2010, Malin, along members of Green Day, formed the band 'Rodeo Queens'. They released one song, along with a video, called 'Depression Times'. D Generation reunited in 2011 and continue to play live.

In 2019, Jesse Malin released the critically acclaimed album "Sunset Kids," in collaboration with American roots icon Lucinda Williams and Billie Joe Armstrong of Green Day. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jesse+Malin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.