Mvtina, Italy (2004 - present) 

Jesus Ain’t In Poland saw the daylight first in spring 2004, as four friends decided to warm up their hearts colliding in the will to built up the most extreme sound features to puke down to the ground. At that time all members were already involved in other bands and after a couple of months the child was drowned in silence. 2004 JAIP line up was: Capasso - drums, Mesh - bass, Collera - guitar, Leebitch Kurwa - vox. The project rose up again during autumn 2005 as the guys got the chance to rule their energies again; unfortunately Mesh wasn't able to join the act and so bass duties laid vacant. The band restarted from zero working on new stuff enduring exclusively as a three piece. Two months later Zavo entered to handle basslines and successfully involved in the music composition process, but shortly after decided to leave the band due to musical divergences. The mongrels didn't loose their power charge and in March 2006 a new bass player was found in the long time mutual friend Roghy. Soon the band began working and started Via Crucis 2006 playing various gigs in Modena district arenas. The common aim set itself as preaching homo sapiens' powerloss, monkey reduction, driven rejection and dismal extinction out of wasted and bleeding planet earth. Along 2007 the band endures creating new stuff and playing live, ‘til the great step takes finally form: on November the 2nd and the 3rd the guys release their first official effort, Holobscene. 

Current line up:
LEEBITCH KURWA - Vox, Lyrics,
COLLERA - Guitars,
CAPASSO - Drums,
RIGHETTY - Bass, Back Vox, Artworks.

Discography:
Excerpts from Live At Libera 2007/Live At Friction 2006 (2007)
Extreme Noise Compilation w/Caterpillars in Rwanda (2008)
Italia Violenta Vol. III w/Saft, Blut Und Scheisse (2008)
Holobscene (2008)

myspace  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jesus+Ain%27t+In+Poland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.