Jesus Anal Penetration is an Iconoclastic Adelaide band from Australia, performing a crushingly brutal brand of death/grind, started off as a joke between friends mid 1996. After a couple of months Phil & Marty (whom are brothers) joined Travis and started jamming out on songs. Trav & Phil both on guitars, marty on vocals. After a few months of jamming a couple of times per month and not being able to find a drummer, Phil got a basic drum kit and filled in until they found one.Things were moving a lot quicker by this time (early 1997). Each person was starting to head in their own musical direction. Travis's love of brutal death metal drove him along on the guitar, whilst phils love of raw black metal was coming through in song writing.In August they were asked if they wanted to do their first gig. It was a halloween show: with Dream Sovereign & DEADpool, so they agreed.Jesus Anal Penetration entered the studio and recorded 5 songs in which 4 were released on a demo tape.After the gig, Phil sold his drum kit as he didn't want to do it anymore, he wanted to do guitars. So we tried this for a while, but it didnt really work, until we found a drummer which also didnt work. We wasted about 6 months trying to get something going so something had to be done. The drummer was given the boot after learning only 4 1/2 songs in 6 months. Phil decided to get another drum kit. By the time this happened it was early 1998. So as the ball started to roll once again, they planned another gig in April of 1998.After the gig, Phil had once again sold his drum kit. He started jamming on guitar with a drummer with similar music tastes. In may 1998 Phil decided he didnt want to be in in the band any more. Soon after, Marty followed his brother.In September 1998 Travis met Nick (who is a blast beat drummer from hell) who also wanted to play brutal death. After jamming only once they both knew it was going to work. They both just clicked and out came the songs. In November 1998 they borrowed a four track and recorded 3 songs with Trav on guitar and Nick playing drums. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jesus+Anal+Penetration">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.