Destin Route (b. October 31, 1990), better known by the stage name JID, is an American rapper from Zone 6, Atlanta, Georgia. He describes himself as “a soft-spoken but intricate lyricist with a cocky side.” His stage name originates from “jittery,” his grandmother’s nickname for him due to his sporadic behavior as a child.

He first appeared on the Atlanta hip-hop scene with his debut EP, DiCaprio, in 2015. Growing up, JID's first connection with music was through his parents' collection of classic funk and soul LPs. After a stint at Hampton University playing football, JID also hooked up with fellow MCs as part of the Spillage Village collective. By 2012, he had dropped out of college to focus on music, and in 2014 he headed out on what would be a productive tour with EarthGang, Bas, and Ab-Soul. Touring allowed JID to craft his skills, and a year later he recorded and dropped the DiCaprio EP, which saw him team up with a host of producers, as well as EarthGang. While keen to distance himself from the generic abrasive trap sound that had dominated the Atlanta scene, JID wanted to deliver something that was more than just about a beat, and instead focused his time and effort on lyrics as well. In 2016, JID, alongside the rest of the Spillage Village crew, released the album Bears Like This Too Much, which saw the rapper honing his unique delivery and inspired lyrics. In 2017, he announced that he had signed to J. Cole's Dreamville label (a connection made with the rapper via JID's part in the 2014 tour with Bas and Cole's friend and producer Cedric Brown), which released the single Never and full-length The Never Story at the beginning of the year. In September of 2018, he issued the single "151 Rum," the first offering from DiCaprio 2, his sophomore full-length and sequel to his 2015 EP. Later that year he released the album "Dicaprio 2".  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.