Jim Bryson (born 30 April 1969 in Ottawa, Canada) is a Canadian singer-songwriter. Briefly a founding member of the band Punchbuggy, he moved to a musical life under his own name with the release of his debut album, The Occasionals, in 2000.

Bryson's songs are a cultivated mix of hope and doubt, longing and uncertainty, and are flush with endearing tales culled from the town he calls home. They have been described as “folk songs played with rock instruments” and “rock songs played with folk instruments.” Truthfully, they almost consistently lilt and sway between the two. Bryson's previous records -- The Occasionals (2000) and The North Side Benches (2003) -- have gathered steam as Jim continues to travel and play, on his own and as singer/keyboardist/guitarist for Kathleen Edwards and Howe Gelb. Over the past two years, he has had the opportunity to play all over North America and in Europe, appearing on the Late Show with David Letterman, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and even at Farm Aid 2005. 

His third offering, Where the Bungalows Roam, is certainly his warmest and most hushed record to date. The album was churned out throughout 2006, working with Dave Draves and Jarrett Bartlett (Kathleen Edwards, Julie Doiron, Howe Gelb) at Little Bullhorn Prods in Ottawa, as well as Chris Shreenan-Dyck (Blue Rodeo, The Sadies, Jon Langford) at Blue Rodeo's Woodshed Studio. 

Bungalows leaves the bright guitars of Bryson's past work behind for soft strumming; strained vocals are replaced with whispered confessions. This record is as direct as they come, and Jim's lyrics have nowhere to hide. Nor should they. 
 
Bryson's gift for capturing a mood or a feeling is one of his most praised strengths. Whether it's coping with the winter weather, self-confidence or general restlessness, Jim finds a way to make his songs ours.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jim+Bryson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.