Los Angeles songstress. 
    High stakes. Fully committed. Ready to kick down the door.
JimiJames is Vivid. Strickingly bright. Lively. Spirited. Fresh.  The gritti-pop star’s electrifying voice and empowering honesty has been winning fans across the globe since her first album The Truth independently debuted in 2006. Her undeniable talent led the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (NARAS) to request submission of The Truth for GRAMMY consideration.

    Since then, JimiJames has shared the stage with a host of independents and industry vets, including The Roots, Seal, Erykah Badu, Corrine Bailey Rae, Doug E. Fresh, MC Lyte and others. She’s been featured on top radio shows such as KCRW 89.9 FM DJ Garth Trinidad’s Chocolate City in Southern California, DJ Barry King’s Starpoint Radio in London, and Sirius Satellite Radio’s #1 rated Hip-Hop Nation music segment, DJ Jamad’s Afromentals.  JimiJames’ graffiti-styled signature is indicative of her hip-hop-punk-r&b sound. Funky, edgy and unafraid— her eclectic style reflects the daring artistry of her early influences; Prince, Madonna, and Cyndi Lauper, along with the soulful vocals of later R&B influences, Missy Elliott and SWV. The visionary singer-songwriter’s music is as vibrant and colorful as the clothes she likes to wear— Lace corsets. Candy red suspenders. Hot pink t-shirts. Electric blue eye shadow. Animal prints. Gold chains and purple jackets— She challenges industry standards by moving freely in all directions without leaving her audience behind.

    JimiJames’ junior release The Love Club is non-stop determination and desire. JimiJames stands on the edge of each breakthrough and dives deeper into love.
The Love Club delivers all the sexy confidence and daring vulnerability for which JimiJames is known. She raises the stakes for love and play— with music for the party of all parties and the greatest of all loves. JimiJames explores it all with the bravado of a hip-hop star and the heart of a music legend.
Her unforgettable performances have captivated crowds since she began performing at the age of six. When “Rah Rah Girl” takes the stage, she creates a live musical experience, using the skills she mastered as a dance student at Los Angeles County High School for the Arts and an award-winning theater major at North Carolina A&T University.

    JimiJames has been recording and writing with established producers since the age of fourteen.  She has collaborated with Soulshock and Karlin (Mary J. Blige, Monica, Usher, Fantasia), Derek “Big Tank” Thorton (Aaliyah, Timberland), Karriem Riggins (Common, Erykah Badu, Slum Village), Anthony “Stereo” Waldrip (Mya, Christina Milian), Sauce (Brandy, Will Smith, Eric Benet) and more.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/JimiJames">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.