Henrik Dahl aka Jivaro is an experienced Swedish musician and producer making acid and Detroit flavoured house music. With a new label and studio, it is fair to say that Dahl has been keeping busy lately, ever pushing his musical boundaries further. 

When did you last hear house mixed with Krautrock? Using the motto 'Twisted house with a signature sound', Dahl is running Rucksack Records. In 2006 Rucksack released their debut 12 inch, Twisted House EP, with tracks from K-Alexi (Chicago, US) and Jivaro. The former has released music on classic labels such as Transmat, Trax and Djax-Up-Beats. 

Jivaro's Rucksack label has also released two tracks by Gene Hunt (Chicago, US). Hunt has collaborated with Phuture and Robert Owens. One of the recordings on the Rucksack release is Throwback 87, a previously unreleased banging house affair featuring DJ legend Ron Hardy. 

At the beginning of 2005, one of Henrik's songs was licensed to Ciba Vision's international commercial campain for their new contact lens product O2Optix. The ad was on heavy rotation worldwide, bringing his music to a huge audience. In 2000 the same track was licensed to an ad for Cingular, the largest wireless company in the US. 

The two albums Dahl presented to the US market in 2002 triggered fine reviews in magazines such as Mixer, Real Detroit Weekly and Grooves. "Wholly original and difficult to resist", wrote Wayne Hoffmann in his Billboard magazine review. 

Between 1999 and 2002 Dahl was a core member and songwriter of the Sleeping Flies, writing acid house and Krautrock influenced electro rock. Before that he made psychedelic garage pop in The Super Eight Group. Dahl has also recorded and played live with The Music Liberation Front Sweden and Babalu, and once even did a gig as the bass player for Chip Taylor, a legend in the 1960s music scene who has written classics such as Wild Thing (recorded by Jimi Hendrix). 

With a previous habit of playing live, Jivaro made the decision early on to perform his music in front of an audience. His shows are much appreciated and are well worth checking out. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jivaro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.