"There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness."
- Friedrich Nietzsche



If you don't know how Joe Fox feels about you or anything else for that matter, you haven't listened closely enough. He'll tell you anything you need to know with ease, albeit in a quiet, no-nonsense manner. You'll know if he loves you or not, what else he loves or hates, and why, if you listen. Joe Fox as you hear him now began about five years ago when he was twenty years old. His collection of instruments consists of guitars, bass, his voice, and a plethora of synthesizers and weird little boxes that hum, buzz and control each other. Given his love of bands like Air and Blonde Redhead, the variety of tools he chose to wield makes perfect sense.



Speaking of electronics: a synth has never sounded so expressive as it has in his songs. 'A' synth? No - I should comment upon the plurality of devices which you will hear....each, like a traveller from a unique, remote crevasse or wrinkle of the globe, stepping up and telling his or her part of the story. The guitars, too, add a sort of urgent narrative.... as if the flesh pressing tightly-wound metal against stained wood knows this isn't possible forever. His vocals, as well, speak with a contempt of his own humanity but a soaring love for all that makes him human. The traces of this human frailty you might pick up from his voice belie his knack for pronounced emotional clarity; you'll never be confused as to how to feel, if you really listen.



Inspired directly by a tragically intense best friend back in the school days, Joe became interested in writing & recording at the age of fourteen. His musical and thematic inspiration could safely be attributed to his family thus: his mother (a teacher of middle eastern music and dance and former pianist) and his father (well-versed in the blues) left many instruments available as precursory playthings to a developing musical personality. He was also most certainly influenced by his sister's musical tastes of the Reagan era, such as the Cure, Devo, & The Talking Heads. Speaking of influences, I feel as if I should mention this: Joe's music and friendship has made probably the most direct and personal effect upon my own tinkering with electronic music and home recording that I can recall.



What you might not find out, however, if your dialogue with him was a bit brief, is that he makes music. Praise be to the attenuation (or volume control) of modern and not-so-modern electronics. Whereas when in person you might be prone to lean in to catch every word, here ... a quick clockwise motion is all that's necessary. This is something you will want to do. You'll probably also feel like moving around quite a bit.


-Ryan Hampton 

(for more info, music, photos, etc. go here: http://jfox.raygunarmy.com/) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/joe+fox">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.