"Joe Hasselvander (born December 30, 1956) is a musician who has been playing professionally since the age of 9 years old in 1966. He was self-taught, playing the violin and later the drums. He has been the drummer of Raven since 1987.

Hasselvander regularly played the military club circuit in and around the Washington, D.C. area until 1973, when he was asked to join The Platters after playing a show with them in Waldorf, Maryland. Hasselvander declined, saying he had to finish high school. He later joined a jazz fusion ensemble called the Ra Notra Sextet that was writing and performing music similar to Chick Corea or The Mahavishnu Orchestra.

In 1977, Hasselvander joined forces with Bobby Liebling and started a new and serious working version of heavy metal doom band, Pentagram. Hasselvander's first single, "Living in a Ram's Head" b/w "When the Screams Come", was recorded with Hasselvander sharing the producing duties with Liebling.

In 1979 Pentagram opened for Judas Priest on the Hell Bent for Leather tour and later that year Hasselvander formed Overlord with members of Pentagram and Link Wray's The Pack.

In 1981, Hasselvander once again joined forces with The Boyz to release the album "Bustin' Out", followed by a Falls Church, Virginia show with Ritchie Blackmore's Rainbow.
Hasselvander formed Death Row with axeman Victor Griffin in 1982 and once again recruited Bobby Liebling and bassist Martin Swaney to write and record Pentagram's first LP on New York label Dutch East Records.

Hasselvander moved to New York and recorded the albums "Devil Childe" and "Phantom Lord" with former Virgin Steele guitarist Jack Starr. He also recorded his first solo album, "Lady-Killer". On Lady-Killer, Hasselvander performed rhythm guitar, bass, drums and vocals, while Jack Starr played the guitar solos.
 
1985 found Hasselvander working with British blues legend, Kim Simmonds performing 2 years' worth of shows throughout the U.S. under the names Savoy Brown or The Kim Simmonds Band. Only one studio demo and one live recording exists of this line-up including players from Blue Cheer, Cactus, The Plasmatics and The Rods.

In September of ’87 Hasselvander made a cameo appearance on Pentagram’s second album, "Day of Reckoning", filling in on the song "Burning Saviour". 
Hasselvander soon after recorded all drum, guitar, bass and vocal tracks for his second solo album, "Road Kill", issued on Bad Posture Records and subsequently recorded his first demos with N.W.O.B.H.M. legends, Raven at Bearsville Studios near Woodstock, N.Y.."

In 1993, Hasselvander played drums on a "reunion album" for Pentagram, "Be Forewarned". 

In 2004, Hasselvander played two concerts in New Hampshire with Blue Cheer, his childidols. He also recorded an album with the band, called "What Doesn't Kill You..."

"Joe Hasselvander soon released his 3rd solo album "The Hounds of Hasselvander" on German heavy metal label Rock Saviour Records, this time performing everything on the album. 

In November, 2007 Hasselvander went to England to play in the Hard Rock Hell festival at the Butlins resort in Minehead. The review by Geoff Barton simply states that "Raven took over the show from the likes of Twisted Sister, Saxon and UFO". This was all followed up by a few choice dates in the Netherlands and Belgium.

Joe Hasselvander played out with a working version of his solo band, The Hounds of Hasselvander on a tour of the East Coast of the US. Hasselvander worked on a brand new line up for the Hounds of Hasselvander to tour Europe and Canada in the early spring of 2009. 
In 2008, Hasselvander concentrated on upcoming Raven shows in California with friends Hirax, in New York at the Legendary club L'amour, and again back to England in September for a Raven mini-tour.
As of June 2009, Hasselvander and Raven performed 2 nights in Japan in support of the band's new album Walk Through Fire (2009, King Records)

Hasselvander is currently working on his third full length solo album, "The Ninth Hour", as well as an album of cover songs, tentatively titled, "Ancient Rocks" - both due out in the Autumn of 2011." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Joe+Hasselvander">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.