1.) John Steel was an American vocalist who found his biggest success in the 1920s. Described by musicologist Allan Sutton as a “working man’s John McCormack,” Steel was signed to the Victor Talking Machine Company in 1919, the same year he starred in “The Ziegfeld Follies of 1919.” An Actors Equity strike that year brought Steel into the headlines when, although siding with strikers, he was legally forced to perform.

Steel went on to star in “The Ziegfeld Follies of 1920” and released a series of hit records, including “The Girls of My Dreams,” “The Love Nest” and “A Pretty Girl Is Like A Melody.” 

In 1922 and 1923, he headlined Broadway’s “Music Box Revue” before settling on the West Coast and playing in such venues as the “Orpheum Theater” chains. He returned to New York to play at “The Hippodrome” during the winters of 1924-1928.

His career went into decline in the 1930s with Steel performing at dinner clubs and in small variety shows by decade’s end.

He died in 1971, in New York City.

2. ) John Steel (born 4 February 1941, Gateshead, England) was the original drummer of the band, The Animals.

Steel went to the Gateshead Grammar School. He met the future lead singer of The Animals, Eric Burdon, while they were studying together at the Newcastle College of Art and Industrial Design.

Originally a trumpeter, he and Burdon formed a jazz group in January 1957 called The Pagan Jazzmen. They soon switched instruments and embraced the new rock 'n' roll explosion, when they became The Pagans. In 1959 they met Alan Price at a church hop in Byker, Newcastle, and joined forces. The band went through many name changes and different personnel until, as The Kansas City 5, they broke up in 1962. In 1963 Price formed The Alan Price Rhythm and Blues Combo. John Steel then replaced Barry Preston as the drummer of the The Alan Price Rhythm and Blues Combo (later to become The Animals) in December 1963.

Steel went on to play and record with them until 1966. His last charted single with the group was "Inside Looking Out".

Subsequently Steel returned to Newcastle and became a businessman, while also working in former bandmate Chas Chandler's management and publishing organisations. Over the years Steel has remained active as a part-time local drummer and has joined several Animals' reunion incarnations.

He has toured since 1993 as drummer with variations of The Animals line-up including Hilton Valentine, Dave Rowberry, Zoot Moneyand Mickey Gallagher.

3) John Steel is a heavy metal band from Plovdiv, Bulgaria. They formed in 2007, and released their debut album in 2014, featuring Blaze Bayley, former vocalist of Iron Maiden, on guest vocals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/John+Steel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.