arvard Business School Professor John Kotter is widely regarded as the world's foremost authority on leadership and change.  His has been the premier voice on how the best organizations actually "do" change.

John Kotter’s international bestseller Leading Change—which outlined an actionable, 8-step process for implementing successful transformations—became the change bible for managers around the world. In October 2001, Business Week magazine rated Kotter the #1 "leadership guru" in America based on a survey they conducted of 504 enterprises.

His newest work released September 2006, Our Iceberg Is Melting, puts the 8-step process within an allegory, making it accessible to the broad range of people needed to effect major organizational transformations.

John Kotter’s articles in The Harvard Business Review over the past twenty years have sold more reprints than any of the hundreds of distinguished authors who have written for that publication during the same time period. His books are in the top 1% of sales from Amazon.com.

He is a graduate of MIT and Harvard. He joined the Harvard Business School faculty in 1972. In 1980, at the age of 33, he was given tenure and a full professorship.

Professor Kotter is the author of 15 books, a collection that has given him  more honors and awards than any other writer on the topics of leadership and change.   In addition to Our Iceberg is Melting (2006) and Leading Change (1996), Professor Kotter is the author of The Heart of Change (2002), John P. Kotter on What leaders Really Do (1999), Matsushita Leadership (1997), Corporate Culture and Performance (1992), A Force for Change (1990), The Leadership Factor (1998), Power and Influence (1985), The General Managers (1982), and five other books published in the 1970s. He has created two executive videos; one on "Leadership" (1981), and one on "Corporate Culture" (1993), and an educational CD-ROM (1998) based on the Leading Change book. His educational articles in the Harvard Business Review have sold a million and a half copies. Professor Kotter's books have been printed in over seventy foreign language editions, and total sales exceed two million copies.

Professor Kotter's honors include an Exxon Award for Innovation in Graduate Business School Curriculum Design, and a Johnson, Smith & Knisely Award for New Perspectives in Business Leadership. In 1996, Professor Kotter's Leading Change was named the #1 management book of the year by Management General. In 1998, his Matsushita Leadership won first place in the Financial Times, Booz-Allen Global Business Book Competition for biography/autobiography. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/John+Kotter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.