Having appeared on so many solo albums in his career, it was not long before John would decide to release one of his own. He would later be approached by Lion Music for publishing and distribution. This record, entitled John Macaluso & UNION RADIO, has got nothing but top reviews by journalists and music lovers worldwide - truly an album that has to be heard to be believed. It is a drummer’s solo album but the drumming is just a piece of it’s brilliance. The songwriting, sound, production and melodies are outstanding. The album has a very dark vibe but is also uplifting. It is closely resembling a “Pink Floyd meets Rush hanging out with Radio Head and Zeppelin”. Full length audio tracks are available on http://www.johnmacaluso.com. Macaluso says, “This album was like my National Geographic Adventure to make. I knew who I wanted on the record and was going to go through any length to get them on the there and record and write, on the spot with them. This is why my album took a year and a half to write and record. I traveled to Italy to write and record with Marco Sfogli (James LaBrie Band), to France for Keys, Pennsylvania for piano with Vitalij Kuprij, James LaBrie recorded vocals in Canada. I went to California to do guitar with Alex Masi, England, New Jersey and of course New York where I did all my drums. It was a trip and a half, but the result is bigger than I ever imagined. I told myself ‘if I am going to make a record, I am going to make A RECORD’, and so I did, despite the cost or time. I am very proud of UNION RADIO and everyone on it kicked as for me and delivered some of the best performances I have ever heard them do. I have recorded and been on tours, in hotels, bars, tour busses and all over with the musicians on my record so I have heard what they can do. They all raised the bar on this album and kicked, Mike DiMeo, Adrian Holtz, James LaBrie, Randy Coven, DiMuti who really kicked, Ze Gray, Vitalij Kuprij, Larry Meyer, Don Chaffin, Alex Rastopchin, Fabrizio Grossi, Donna and Laura Macaluso, Kristen Drewes, Suzi, Dina Cook, Jack Frost and many more, thanks!”

John’s solo record is available on his website at http://www.johnmacaluso.com. John is planning to tour for his solo record as well as an upcoming drum clinic tour playing to the album tracks.

[from http://www.johnmacaluso.com/active.php] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/John+Macaluso+&+Union+Radio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.