There are three artists with this name:
1. A British indie pop duo best known for the single "You Are The Generation That Bought More Shoes And You Get What You Deserve"
2. An American punk band
3. An British rapper formerly called BangBang
4. A French electronic/indie band
5. An American rapper

1. Johnny Boy are a London-based two-piece, comprising of Lolly Hayes and Davo. They rely heavily on loops to supplement guitars and, quite often, dreamy vocals which results in the sort of "Wall of Sound" effect that Phil Spector would be proud of.

They caught the attention of James Dean Bradfield of the Manic Street Preachers, who produced the two tracks released as singles: Johnny Boy Theme and You Are The Generation That Bought More Shoes And You Get What You Deserve. Both of these tracks received critical acclaim; You Are The Generation made it onto various Best Single of 2004 lists and even Johnny Marr's Best Album list.

Despite this, Johnny Boy have not found success in their native UK. They parted company with Vertigo Records shortly before their eponymous album was due to be released after Vertigo's lack of promotion saw You Are The Generation chart at a disappointing Number 50 in the UK singles chart. They simply disappeared into the wilderness...

However, 2006 has seen them return, albeit in a fairly limited manner. The album eventually surfaced on Sweden's Wild Kingdom records, and they played an extremely successful gig in London in June.

2. Johnny Boy is also the name of an American punk band who released an album entitled 'Champagne Dance Party'.

3. In 2009 rapper BangBang changed his name to Johnny Boy, because BangBang had to much relation with violence. He wanted to keep a good name, so hip-hop would not get linked with violence.

4. electronically informed rock band from Paris

5. Ghetto Star Recordz has been in the Southern California rap game since 2001, when Johnny Boy dropped his first & only “J>Rok Demo”. Lil Whisper from Teen Angels Records caught wind of the demo and made it his own priority to help Johnny Boy release his first underground album labeled Brown Thugs in 2003. The very next year (2004) Familia Records released The Johnny Boy Album, and in 2005 Chronic Dreamz was also out thanks to the help of Johnny Boy’s long time mentor Poppy from Zakka Records. Although legal trouble plagued the young rapper from Moreno Valley, he managed to keep the music alive with the help of Key G Entertainment. Today Ghetto Star Recordz continues to overcome. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Johnny+Boy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.