Joker’s Daughter is a project featuring vocalist, songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Helena Costas. This fresh folk-pop excursion reveals new facets of the renowned artist and producer Danger Mouse, who collaborates with Costas throughout.

Born in London but Greek Cypriot by origin, Helena Costas studied violin from ages 7 to 13, then taught herself guitar and keyboards. As she became an adult, her mission came into focus. She wrote songs relentlessly, learned the art of production, and gained confidence as a performer as she played gigs around London.

Like a cryptic, symbolic dream, the music of Joker’s Daughter feeds on a range of conscious and unconscious influences, from classical violin training to Arthurian legend to a certain fascination with food. The result is haunting, infectious and playful, a rich harvest from a broad psychic landscape.

In 2003, she began sending her home recordings to artist/producer Danger Mouse, a correspondence that continued as his career grew. The two artists discovered a natural affinity, and launched a collaboration, which they dubbed Joker’s Daughter after one of Helena’s many shifting personae.

Joker’s Daughter is a character who gives voice to the darkness and redemption in Helena’s psyche, often with a mischievous flair. Always evolving as a musician and performer, Helena has recently taken up the bouzouki, a traditional instrument played by the muses in ancient Greek myth.

Danger Mouse is a full collaborator at every stage. His verdant production and instrumentation compliments the full spectrum of emotion in Helena’s music, from grief to celebration to happy ambiguity. Together, they make music both timeless and fresh from a strange, uncharted world.

The project also features the horns of Neutral Milk Hotel’s Scott Spillane and the string arrangements of frequent Danger Mouse collaborator Daniele Luppi.

Joker's Daughter is proud to announce the release of her long awaited second album!

THE SINGLE 'MIND OF GOLD' WILL BE RELEASED ON 3rd OCTOBER 2011, and will include the b-side tracks, 'Handful of Nothing' and Iron Maiden cover 'Infinite Dreams.'

THE ALBUM 'MAY CAUSE SIDE EFFECTS' WILL BE RELEASED ON 7th NOVEMBER 2011.

Both released on DIGITAL ONLY, but cds will be available at gigs so make sure you get to one if you want the lovely artwork, created by bass player and graphic designer Steve Rodgers. (www.sjrodgers.com)

This new album, 'May Cause Side Effects', is the next chapter from this exciting narrative artist. This time, she encapsulates Greek myths, dreams, folklore, storytelling, creature parties, gossiping, a strange fascination with Commodore 64 games, and UFOs... all with her usual ghostly sense of humour. However, songs such as Mind of Gold, and Follow touch on her more sensitive nature of the wonderings of life. Her Greek influences shine through even more so than the first, as her bouzouki is present in most of the songs. The single 'Mind of Gold' and album track 'Bubbles' were produced by Mike Lindsay of Tunng. Giving them an almost euphoric feel, he compliments the songs in more ways than one, with his unpredictable arrangements and the enforcement of unusual instruments!

Helena has been rehearsing with band members, Mark Robson and Steve Rodgers to form an acoustic interpretation of the songs so be prepared for some intimate surprises!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Joker%27s+Daughter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.