1) Jolly Roger is an alias of Eddie Richards, or Acidman, or Key Largo.
It has been a very busy time for Eddie Richards, dance musics Quintessential pioner and "Britains godfather of house and techno" (Mixmag). One of the first DJs to champion house back in the mid 80s and one of the UK's original mix DJs residing at London's Camden Palace, voted best club in the world, (Record Mirror.) 
Eddie became a key figure in a new music and cultural movement soon to explode worldwide. After playing at such influential and original underground clubs as Clink St. and Heaven in London and Manchester s Hacienda, he went one to headline the legendary UK pay parties Sunrise. Energy and Helter Skelter among countless others. Remix and production work led to the release of club classics; Acidman in 1988 which hit National Top 20, followed by other chart topping remixes of Ralphi Rosario, Orbital and The Shamen. Since the mid 80s he has been included in virtually every book, documentary and film on the dance culture and sought after all over the world for his flawless mix of deep bass driven techno with soulful and tough tribal house, a format he has always maintained, and has led him to be widely regarded as the pioneer of what is now known as tech-house.

2) Jolly Roger is a spanish Stoner Rock band with Grunge, Heavy Metal and Punk Rock influences founded in 1999 in Vilafranca (Barcelona).
With the following line-up: Xavi Juan (lead guitar and vocals), Toni Hidalgo (drums), David Ruz (bass) y Francesc Bes (rhythm guitar and vocals) they recorded their first demo, "Jolly Roger" in 2003. In 2005, the band recorded "R.P.M.", where you can find hits like "Comosellame" or "Vendido".
In 2006 they recorded "Cactus", longer than "R.P.M." and more mature. Later, in 2008, before doing a couple of their first important gigs in Spain they recorded "Virus" and they went on tour since 2009, when a videogame company asked them for making the soundtrack for the videogame "Holokaust". Consequently, they released that soundtrack being converted as a conceptual album.
In october of 2009, Xavi Juan announced by their myspace that the line-up was going to be changed for staying like this: Xavi Juan (lead guitar and vocals), Toni Hidalgo (rhythm guitar and vocals), Javi Rojano (drums) y Xavi Muntaner (bass).
However, a couple of months later Xavi Muntaner left the band and he was replaced again by the founder member David Ruz.
In 2010 the band did some gigs opening for Brant Bjork and ¡Pendejo! as a part of the tour of their latest album "Supernova" (to be released) and becoming each day bigger as a band.

3) Jolly Roger is an Italian heavy rock band from Reggio Emilia.

4) Jolly Roger is Greek underground hip-hop group.

5) Jolly Roger is a Portuguese pirate-metal band.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jolly+Roger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.