Jon Connor, (born Jon Kevin Freeman Jr. pronounced; April 13, 1985) is an artist/producer/song writer & Co-CEO of All Varsity Entertainment. Jon Connor was born and raised in Flint, Michigan. His father, Jon Freeman Sr. is an accomplished musician turned Christian minister who served as one of Connor's earliest and biggest musical influences. He was raised by his mother Mahaley Freeman on Flint's North Side in a neighborhood located off of the notorious Dayton Ave. He began producing and song crafting at the young age of 10. By the age of 14 he founded his own independent record label Avie Squad Records/ All Varsity Entertainment with Jason Monk. Using money that they earned doing odd jobs in the neighborhood, Monk and Connor created a studio in his mother’s basement. 

As a freshman in high school Jon Connor began selling his own mixtapes out of his school backpack and out of the trunk of his mother's car with the help of his older sister. By 18, Connor had developed a name for himself in the Flint music scene. He completed an entire movie score for the independent Basketball Documentary Film "Flint Star The Motion Picture". To complete the movie score he used new and some old music that dated back to when he was 15 years old. He later went on to shoot his first independent music video that same year. 

In 2005 he teamed up with the southern-based beat making team of E. Rude and Kevin "K.Wills" Williams to create the underground classic "The Calling Pt. 1 The Prequel". Raptalk.net calls the Calling “…an awesome blend of pure hip hop flow, unique beats, solid production, and realistic content”. His music conveys genuine purpose and individuality, rare qualities in contemporary rappers. The Calling pt.1 served as Connor's official introduction to the world, as it gained him national notoriety (VH1.com, rapcapital.com, planeturban, Urbanology magazine etc.) and a loyal fan base. Producing over half of the material on his critically acclaimed debut album, Connor not only showed his ability as a gifted lyricist and songwriter, but also as a skilled producer. 

Connor's style of production is described by him as "a mirror of human emotions". His sound is well rounded just as his influences are. Connor's influences include; Prince, Hall and Oats, Michael Jackson, Carol King, Beats by the pound and Seal among many others. Never one to limit himself, Connor not only strives to be a great hip-hop producer, but a great producer period, no matter the genre.

Jon Connor is a young musical talent who will be a force in music for years to come, “Even this early in his career, Jon Connor has every right to label himself the “people’s rapper”…” (Rapreviews.com.). Connor’s progression from underground rapper to commercial success is a long way from selling mix tapes out his mother’s car in Flint. But don’t expect the self proclaimed musical “Terminator” to lose his hunger any time soon. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jon+Connor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.