Jonas Rathsman was born in 1980 and raised far from urban vanity, neon lights and contemporary club culture in a small village in Western Sweden. Music was always central in his adolescence, but the true passion for music would come later in life. At the age of 18, after moving to the Manchester of Sweden – Gothenburg – he started organizing parties and clubs and quickly rose in the underground hierarchy of Sweden's 2d largest city. Within short he was a household name in Gothenburg, which gave him access to a more musically seasoned audience. It was during this time that Jonas starting discovering the nuances of the endless genres of club music and decided to up the ante and go into production.

Together with his close friend Fredrik Nyberg, aka Dj Nibc, they started releasing material under the alias Stuffa, which received a lot of recognition both on the underground scene in Europe and on more mainstream club floors.

In 2010 Stuffa released their third official single Proof on Defected, which became a huge anthem that year. 

Last year, Jonas decided to commit further into an intrinsic creative process and explore his music on a more profound level. He also decided to expose himself further to the industry by abandoning all pseudonyms and releasing his work under his own name. The result of this process was his debut EP "Tobago", which was released on French Express in December 2011. Tobago received massive support both virally and traditionally and was played on BBC Radio 1 shortly after its release. As a result, the track appeared on numerous recognized dj's mixtapes, including a Magician's Magic Tape. Tobago has recently been signed to Defected and will be released before the summer of 2012.

As a creative at heart, Jonas Rathsman is also the co-owner and producer behind the collective and fashion brand Uniforms for the Dedicated. He is currently scheduled to tour in Europe and visit some of club music´s most prestigious venues. His music is getting more recognizing by the day for its organic and playful flair, stimulating vocals and classic club flow. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jonas+Rathsman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.