Jonathan Houseman Davis (born January 18, 1971) is the American vocalist for the multiplatinum nu metal band KoЯn. He was born and raised in Bakersfield, California, where he lived with his father and stepmother.

As well as being KoЯn's lead singer, he has also played bagpipes. Davis writes songs on guitar and other various instruments.

Davis was the last member to join the band. James 'Munky' Shaffer and Brian 'Head' Welch discovered him in a bar, initially intending to only stay for a few minutes. Upon seeing Davis performing with his then-band Sexart, however, they were compelled to stay for the whole set, and as soon as the set was over Brian and James approached Davis with an offer to join their then band Creep. At first he didn't accept the offer, but upon consulting a psychic, he agreed, and KoЯn was born.[citation needed] In early years, he was known for wearing a variety of normal and customized Adidas tracksuits onstage, which became a kind of "trademark" for all KoЯn fans.

KoЯn released their self-titled debut in 1994. It peaked at #72 on the billboard. To date they have released twelve studio albums, achieving Platinum certification for their first seven. Davis is the older half brother of former Adema and Midnight Panic vocalist, Mark Chavez.

Davis suffered from asthma as a child, having a near fatal attack at the age of 5 which hospitalized him. He noted in a 2004 interview that he was in and out of the hospital frequently as a child. His asthma has improved greatly and he's "...pretty much outgrown it."

Davis' earliest musical inspiration as a child was the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical "Jesus Christ Superstar". It was also during his childhood that he received his first drum kit and began his interest in music, eventually leading to a life-long passion and eventually a professional career as the lead singer of KoЯn. His favorite bands as a child were Duran Duran and other New Romantic bands.

Jonathan's personal issues are a big influence in KoЯn lyrics, songs such as "Daddy" from KoЯn's self-titled album are an example how Davis puts all kinds of feelings like anger and sadness in the creation of songs. The song "Daddy" caused many to assume Rick Davis (Jonathan's father) had molested his son. It's a source of embarrassment for him, though his son has gone on the record in many interviews saying it was written about a family friend who sexually abused him. When a 12-year-old Jonathan tried to turn to his family, he said, they ignored him. (Neither Jonathan or Rick will say who the person was, though both say it was a woman.)

Davis has married twice, marrying his high school sweetheart, Renee Perez, in 1998 in a Medieval themed ceremony. Together they had a son, Nathan Houseman Davis, but were divorced in 2001. On October 5, 2004, a decade after the release of KoЯn's first album he married again in Hawaii, this time to former adult film actress Deven Davis. They were featured in the Playboy Cyber Club's "celebrity photographer" section, with Jonathan behind the camera and Deven modeling. In 2005 his second child, Pirate Houseman Davis, was born. Davis's third son, Zeppelin Houseman Davis, was born on April 28, 2007.

Davis has been sober from alcohol and other drugs since August 22, 1998.[citation needed] He has stated that he gave them up. On the band's Deuce DVD, former bandmate Brian Welch says that he is proud of him for becoming sober.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jonathan+Davis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.