Jonny Lang (born Jon Gordon Langseth, Jr. in Fargo, North Dakota, January 29, 1981) is a Grammy Award-winning American singer and guitarist performing blues, gospel, soul, and rock music, his latest work being 2013's 'Fight For My Soul'. In 1995, at the age of 14, Lang released his first album, 'Smokin'. Performing both as himself and as as 'Kid Jonny Lang & The Big Bang', he achieved some budding success. As a result of the LP becoming a regional hit, a major-label bidding war ensued that culminated in Lang signing to A&M Records in 1996.

In 1997, at the age of 15, he released his major-label debut, 'Lie to Me'. Though it picked up mixed critical reviews, the album served as a commercial breakthrough, with single "Lie to Me" particularly receiving much airplay and earning the #12 slot on Billboard's Mainstream Rock chart. That blues rock track continues to be beloved by Lang's fan-base.

Lang followed with 'Wander This World', released on October 20, 1998. Broadening his sound somewhat with influences from classic soul and modern rock, the release experienced widespread success. His singles, "Wander This World" and "Still Rainin'", did particularly well, the latter tune reaching the #8 slot on Billboard's Mainstream Rock chart.

Several releases and constant touring later, Lang's latest work is 'Fight For My Soul', released on September 2, 2013. The album has received critical acclaim from publications such has Allmusic, with the reviewers remarking that Lang "dives headfirst into classic soul and R&B, its elastic, funky grooves allowing the guitarist plenty of space to solo". It also hit the #20 slot on Billboard's 'Top Rock Albums' chart, selling extremely well.

Part of his success has been due to a voice that sounds somewhat like that of a 40-year-old blues veteran, containing what fans have seen as a harshness tempered by a fine falsetto that has taken prominence in his newest albums. Another part of his success is his scorching, electrifying guitar solos, which display a prodigious natural talent honed by years of practice and playing.  Whatever the secret to his success, the youngster has quickly become a fixture in the blues world, drawing crowds wherever he goes.

Lang has drawn deeply from the wellspring of influences from the likes of Stevie Ray Vaughan, Albert King, Luther Allison, and Albert Collins. Many blues artists have also been encouraged to pick up the guitar from his example. As he becomes more confident in his role as a musical veteran instead of a boy wonder, one can see the possibilities he has yet to share with his fans.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jonny+Lang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.