There are many artists with the name Jonny:

1. A British psychedelic pop duo.
2. A power pop band from Nagoya, Japan.
3. A pop artist from Brazil.
4. A German schlager singer (Wolfgang Graf).
5. A non-music / field recordings artist.

1. A British psychedelic pop duo formed by Norman Blake of Teenage Fanclub and Euros Childs of Gorky's Zygotic Mynci. 
The self-titled, co-written album Jonny was released in 2011. 

2. A power pop band from Nagoya, Japan. 
It started as a Weezer covers band but later started writing original music. They have self-released a mini-album called Jonny which they followed up with the double-A side Uncle fucker / Radio.

Their first full-length album, also called Jonny, features re-recorded versions of the double-A side (proper studio with a proper budget). Stand out tracks include Where Is The Line (also re-recorded, this time from the mini-album) and This Is Not The Last Song. 
The album fleshes out the bands pop-punk sound, combining powerful energy with structurally complex writing and a catchy melody. 

Next came the Pop Star / Cranberry EP. Not really an EP, it contains the aforementioned two songs, a track called Overture which is basically a short, drunk, a cappello sing-a-long of Pop Star and a spoken word track called A Letter. Cranberry is a bit of a departure for the band – a slow, rambling number, almost grunge-like that marks a new maturity in the band and an glimpse into a future direction. This song was performed live a lot.
Pop Star meanwhile is considered to be Jonny's song-writing at its best – loud scratchy guitars, a fast, bouncy tempo, a shouty chorus (“I need, I need your electric guitar”) and gained the band their first overseas recognition after Tom Robinson played it on his BBC 6music Introducing show in July 2008. 
Good Hour was featured on the OkPowerpop2 compilation and the band closed 2008 by re-releasing their debut mini-album, this time entitled Cake Album, with the new song Confession Of My Liberation.
MySpace

3. A pop artist from Brazil. 
Discography:
- A Força Da Oração (1998)
- Pra Te Louvar, Senhor (1999), 
- Trabalhar e Rezar (2000)
- Amor da Cor do Céu (2003)
- Soma e Vida (2004), 
- A Luz de uma Nova Canção (2009)

4. A German schlager singer (real name: Wolfgang Graf. He was born in 1938 in Berlin. 
He started working as "a singing waiter" in one of the big international hotels in Berlin, then in the same hotel he worked as a waiter, then worked many years as salon steward on a panamanian passenger ship. Afterwards he got employed in the Berlin airport-restaurant, where he was singing and playing guitar. 
His demo tape reached the music producer Heinz Gietz, and Wolfgang started releasing his original songs. 

Under the name Jonny he has released only a 7" Meine Freundin Heißt Marlene / Barkarole Am Palmenstrand in 1961.
He has also released music under his own name and other pseudonyms: Johnny, Wolf Graf and John Dattelbaum. 

5. A non-music / field recordings artist. A single track Jonny's Soothing Sounds was released in 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jonny">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.