Hi, my name is Jordan Biel and I’m an artist, song-writer, worship-leader and speaker.  I’ve also been a youth pastor the last 5 1/2 years but I just stepped out of that position in Aug. of 2010, to pursue God’s call on my life to minister in other churches around the nation in leading worship and preaching. My prayer is that as you listen to my music and messages, you’ll be inspired to love God completely as you realize how much He personally loves you. My Vision for my life and ministry is that through my music and message, people will be taken into the presence of the true, living God, Jesus Christ and there, we’ll enjoy His presence, He will make us more like Him and He’ll send us out to do what He’s created us to. We’re all created to give Him glory with our lives; our time, energy, efforts, career, etc.

God often works through us prophetically – giving people specific encouragement that builds them up, confirms their calling or struggles or whatever God wants to say.  We simply feel that a vital, unique part of our ministry is to speak life into people’s situations and give the specific word that will encourage them in their walk with Jesus – words that line up with scripture and edify them as a person and edify the church.

I’m passionate about seeing people discover the specific area that God’s called them to and that happens when we worship from the heart, enter His presence and open His Word.  I’m available to lead worship, play a concert or speak for your next church event, or youth event.  Just email me: info@jordanbiel.com or visit the”Contact Me / Booking” page.

MY BACKGROUND

I was raised a pastor’s kid – yup, I grew up under the pews.  Ok… chairs… it was our way of being “relevant” at the time.  I grew up with the most godly parents a kid could ask for.  My dad was and is a man of integrity and who I am today is mostly attributed to my parents and their influence in my life.  There are so many other people who helped shape me as well – Royal Ranger commanders when I was young, Youth Pastors and Leaders, mentors in Bible College like Pastor Richard Crisco, Tony Hooper & Matt Anderson.  The list goes on.  Our ministry exists today because of their sincere love and commitment to raise up young leaders.

God called me into the ministry at age 14 at a youth camp called Big Prairie.  I know – sounds like some cheesy film Charles Ingalls would star on right?  No; it was actually a great camp for teens organized by the Assemblies of God in Ohio.  I can’t tell you how God moved on me in those meetings.  The Holy Spirit set me aside for full-time ministry and I’ve wanted nothing else since.

I was passionate throughout high-school in seeing my friends come to know Christ.  After HS, I interned at a church plant, The Well, in Geneva, IL for one year before going to Bible College.  2002-2005, I attended Brownsville Revival School of Ministry in Pensacola, FL and received Associates of Arts degrees in Pastoral Theology and Worship Ministry.

After college, God lead me back to my home church, Rock of Grace Family Ministries in Kinsman, OH, to serve as the worship pastor and youth pastor.  After much prayer, in Aug. of 2010, I stepped down from the youth ministry position to focus my life of my traveling ministry of speaking and music and my business, NewChristianArtist.com.  God has been so faithful in leading us and equipping us for every good work to HIM be all the glory! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jordan+Biel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.