What better place to be born in than New York? It's where all of the great singer songwriters traveled to and where so many music careers were launched. Joseph Ady began life in the right place and it wasn't long before music found its newest vessel. As a kid, Ady started singing in Chorus and performed to audiences as large as 300 people. It wasn't until he was an adult that he got the idea to play guitar. Using a $30 guitar he bought from Toys R Us, Ady started to teach himself how to play. He printed scales and found information online that helped fuel his learning even more until he was soon playing with ease. He joined a band and played with them for the next four years until choosing to pursue a solo career. He played and even hosted open mic nights at coffee shops across Long Island, New York until making the move to Los Angeles. He is currently working in the classic singer songwriter format but reinventing it with a unique styling all his own.
       
      He is currently working in the classic singer songwriter format but reinventing it with a unique styling all his own. He just released a new music video on the verge of going viral titled "Forever Live and Die," with the help of a well known producer and nothing seems to be stopping the quickly rising career of Joseph Ady.

       You can hear John Lennon and Beatles influences and also hear more modern voices like the Goo Goo Dolls or Rob Thomas in Ady's music, but then again you hear something that is uniquely him, a voice carrying harmonies that don't rest in one cookie cutter format. His singing travels and moves across different musical landscapes, each different, yet capturing something essential that belongs to Ady and his songs of love, longing, life and the celebration that exists for each of them. If you enjoy folk, rock, or more modern acoustic guitar driven pop music, Ady fits nicely in any of these genres and because he is harder to label and pinpoint into a particular box, it is a sure sign that he is exploring with his music and docking in some unusual and new worlds. His music is perfect if you were going to go see the world on some sort of romantic getaway where you didn't know where you were going beyond the next town. Once you arrive, there will be restaurants and shops with multi-colored lights dangling across stone paved streets leading to old ruins that no one visits because they are too engrossed in the music playing at the local tavern. Joseph Ady will be waiting for you as you take your seat, strumming his notes from across the room, singing words you take in as if your own and he makes the clocks disappear. Get ready to be transported and teleported to new places musically. Ady will sweep you away. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Joseph+Ady">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.