Joelle Clarke, popularly known as Jovi Rockwell, is a singer, songwriter from Kingston, Jamaica. Jovi is the epidemi of Uptown meets downtown, a formula she says is imbedded in her DNA , a formula which allows her to break the invisible class barriers in her home town of Norbrook, Kingston in her Native Birth land Jamaica. “Music is Music, and I represent a culture not a specific area, the only time you belong in a box is when your dead” the self-proclaimed Rebel. Love. Goddess says.

When asked to describes herself in three words” Im a rebel at heart, a lover by Nature, no doubt and I believe every woman is a goddess, so I call myself The Rebel. Love. Goddess.” These three words also represent Jovi’s unique approach to her music. She is not afraid to speak out and express, show her softer side or touch on a more conscious topic. Jovi Rockwell, a real Yardie Girl (Jamaican Woman) Attended St. Andrew high School for girls (Jamaica) And Flanagan High School (Florida).

For Jovi Rockwell,Greatness is the predicted future! Jovi Rockwell is no stranger to the stage, with Noted Performances at the Air Jamaica Jazz and Blues 2005 – Montego Bay Jamaica, Trans Dub Masive Tour 2005/06 – Antwerp/Belgium, Vienna/Austria, and Amsterdam/Holland.. which included Dour fest & 77Splash, Irie Jamboree 2005/06/7 – New York City Stone Love Anniverssary 2005 – Kinston, Ja Asylum Anniversary 2005 – Kingston, Ja West Kingston Jamboree – Kingston, Reggae Sumfest 06 Ja , Midem France 07, Best of The Best Mia 07, Madison Sq Gardens(BuJu & Friends) SXSW 2010 which she performed on six (6) Major Stages.. and this is just to name a few, Jovi has performed on many shows that she is really proud of, around the world & in the Garrisons (Jamaican Ghetto’s).

Jovi Rockwell has Collaborated with Bruno Mars, Flo Rida, Mims, Akon and Ne-Yo. She also released a number of singles in Jamaica and the US, singles which includes the Caribbean and European hits “Party On,” “Dance Floor,” featuring dancehall artist Zumjay “All About Love,” “Hey,” with Courtney ‘Yogie’ John “Need Me” featuring Mr. Vegas, “Can’t stop now” produced by Diplo for the Major Lazer Project “Gunz don’t Kill people Lazers do with a feature also by Mr.Vegas,” “Rizzla” and her new club Banger “Killin Dem.” you will find all these and more on her Nov 2009 released Mixtape “Psycho Therapy.”  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jovi+Rockwell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.