The musical philosophy of JP Enfant is as clear-cut as his DJ sets. The affable Amsterdam resident is on a fast track to become an influential figure in techno through his work as a DJ, producer, promoter and label manager.

While already having gained some experience in his hometown Breda from the age of fourteen, his DJing started to take serious shape after moving to Amsterdam. It was here that he got acquainted to the likeminded souls with whom he would establish a collective that would solidify his place in the Amsterdam dance scene: LET – Les Enfants Terribles. The part record label, part promoter that has acted as a vessel through which JP could purvey his idiosyncratic musical style and preference: “dubbed, steaming and slightly melancholic techno made for the dance floor, alongside the odd excursion to experimental and bass.” 

After hosting different successful LET events in Amsterdam, it was Trouw that opened its doors to the promising organization. Here they would make their brand name known across the border, by showing an incredible knack for mixing artists on the verge of breaking through with esteemed personal heroes. It led to the rare occurrence where every new eagerly awaited event outdid the previous one. Myriad artists passed the LET bill in the iconic Amsterdam club. Marcel Dettmann, DJ Sprinkles, Luke Hess Surgeon, Don Williams, Steffi, Donato Dozzy and Prosumer are just a few of the names JP Enfant and his following brought to Trouw.

Aside from putting LET on the map, Trouw was of course also a stepping-stone for JP’s personal career as well. Due to his sets at Trouw, where he also became a resident, it wasn’t too long before others spotted him. 2014 and ’15 were pivotal in his career, with performances at the bigger festivals such as Awakenings, Mysteryland and Amsterdam Open Air, along with other highlights such as gigs at the legendary Berlin techno haven Tresor, his recently acquired residency at the Amsterdam based club De School, and his lead support for one of his biggest personal icons: Jeff Mills.

Release-wise JP has been making strides as well. A strong work ethic, combined with his blooming creativity, has resulted in the release of some outstanding EPs that have not gone unnoticed. He debuted with ‘Artefacts’, which was released on Don Williams’ label a.r.t.less. The follow up was released in June of 2015 in the form of ‘Dreaming Backwards’, an EP that perfectly exemplifies JP’s style and skill. The EP, released on his own LET-imprint which he started in May ‘15, has received profound support from Ben Klock, DJ Deep, Delta Funktionen, Daniel Avery, Len Faki, Ben Sims, Rødhad and Sebastian Mullaert. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/JP+Enfant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.