Jonathan Percy Starker Saxe (born March 23, 1993), known professionally as JP Saxe, is a Grammy nominated Canadian musician and singer-songwriter. He is best known for his collaboration with American singer Julia Michaels titled "If the World Was Ending" which was released on October 17, 2019. The song was nominated for a 2021 Grammy. His grandfather, noted cellist János Starker, was a multiple nominee and Grammy winner.
Between April 2017 and March 2018, JP Saxe released the singles, "Changed", "Anybody Else" and "The Few Things". In November 2018, he released "25 in Barcelona" as the lead single from his debut EP. He released his debut EP, Both Can Be True: Part 1, on November 8, 2018.
He released the singles "Same Room" and "Women Who Look Like You" between June and August 2019. He released "If the World Was Ending" as the lead single from his second EP. He released "Sad Corny Fuck" as the second single from his second EP, in February 2020. He released his second EP, Hold It Together, on February 7, 2020. It peaked at number 53 on the Canadian Albums Chart. He features on Lennon Stella's single "Golf on TV". In April 2020, JP Saxe and Julia Michaels, re-released "If the World Was Ending" with other artists including Sam Smith, H.E.R., Alessia Cara, Niall Horan, Keith Urban and Finneas O'Connell, who produced the song. Each artist filmed their part on their phones from their homes while self-isolating and features on the music video. All proceeds benefit Doctors Without Borders, and the video ends with a special message from a participating doctor about the impact of COVID-19 on countries where many of the doctors are stationed. In a statement, Saxe and Michaels said, "We are so grateful for the incredible work being done by those on the frontlines during this global pandemic. At a time when it can sometimes feel like 'the world is ending', we thank all of the healthcare workers, first responders, and essential workers who are helping so many people in need. Please stay home, stay safe (and don't actually go over!)"

His song "Same Room" was shortlisted for the 2020 SOCAN Songwriting Prize. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/JP+Saxe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.