JR JR (formerly Dale Earnhardt Jr. Jr.) are an American indie-pop band from Detroit, Michigan, consisting of Daniel Zott and Joshua Epstein. Zott and Epstein met each other while playing in other Detroit music projects and began recording in Zott’s basement in Royal Oak, Michigan.

JR JR was formed in late 2009 by members Joshua Epstein and Daniel Zott. The band also includes drummer Mike Higgins and the group’s newest addition, keyboardist Jon Visger. The band initially began as a basement recording project with few intentions of reaching the public.

In July 2010, the band released Horsepower EP via Quite Scientific Records. The Horsepower EP consisted of songs “Nothing But Our Love,” “Vocal Chords,” “Simple Girl,” and a cover of The Beach Boys’ “God Only Knows.” Months after their EP was released the band’s genre was described as ‘psych-retro pop,’ ‘an inspired mix of hip-hop and folk,’ ‘minimalist altera-pop,’ and ‘beach wave.’ The band came out with a second EP titled My Love Is Easy: Remixes Pt.1 via Quite Scientific Records on November 2, 2010. They were noted as ‘one of the best new bands’ of 2010 and became very well-liked from various sources such as Stereogum, SPIN, Under the Radar, Real Detroit, and The Metro Times. The band later came out with We Almost Lost Detroit EP via Warner Bros. Records and Quite Scientific Records on April 21, 2011. The duo released two singles, “Morning Thought” and “Simple Girl” on April 8, 2011 and September 9, 2011; respectively.

Then-Dale Earnhardt Jr. Jr. released their first full-length album, It’s A Corporate World on June 7, 2011 via Warner Bros. Records and Quite Scientific Records.

The band came out with their new single, “If You Didn’t See Me (Then You Weren’t On The Dancefloor)” on April 2, 2013. This single was released right before they came out with their new EP, Patterns. The band performed live on May 16, 2013 on KCRW’s Morning Becomes Eclectic to premier a few songs on their upcoming album. The featured songs included: “Hiding,” “Run,” “Mesopotamia,” “If You Didn’t See Me (Then You Weren’t On The Dancefloor),” “Dark Water,” “Knock Louder,” “War Zone,” “Don’t Tell Me,” and “I Think Of You.” They also performed on the TV series Conan, June 11, 2013, featuring the song “If You Didn’t See Me (Then You Weren’t On The Dancefloor).”

Patterns (EP) was released on April 16, 2013, consisting of four songs: “If You Didn’t See Me (Then You Weren’t On The Dancefloor),” “Dark Water,” “Hiding,” and “Habits.” Their 13-track sophomore LP, The Speed of Things, was released on October 8, 2013.

JR JR's first release under their new, shorter moniker on July 16, 2015 was the single "Gone," to be featured on their upcoming LP "Jr Jr," slated for a September 25, 2015 release.

More information can be found at the band's web site, jrjrmusic.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jr+Jr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.