Biography

The Four Horsemen was formed in October, 2004, by guitarists, Jared and Matt Kiess in the most unsuspecting place for establishment of a thrash metal band – Stevensville, Montana. In these early stages the two focused on writing songs and played only a handful of shows with a tentative lineup.

The goal was (and remains) to write complex and melodic, yet heavy thrash metal pieces by combining catchy chorus and verse sections with intricate structures containing long instrumental passages. This method of songwriting provides music that catches the initial attention of the listener while also maintains staying power over time and provided the hallmark of the great 80’s thrashers’ success.

On April 1, 2005 The Four Horsemen took the first step in gaining a strong lineup with the acquisition of Joel Isaacs on Drums. Later in November of that same year, The Four Horsemen solidified the lineup with Aaron Gericke, a guitar player by trade, taking on bass duties. This new lineup enabled the band to expand its range of possible songs and finally play some of the more intricate pieces which had been in the works long before.

In early 2006 they recorded the initial demo, "The Rebirth of Thrash," containing three of the first songs ever written. “Hell’s Hymn” got immediate airplay on the local metal station and their ensuing interview sparked the creation of a ongoing radio show in Missoula, MT dedicated to local music. After the great response from their initial demo, The Four Horsemen returned to the studio to record a second. "Restoring Order," was released on November 18th, 2006, and contained rough recordings of “Kill or Be Killed,” “Burning Madness,” and “Treason.”

The year 2007 presented a great opportunity to play more shows and expand the band’s fan base. In April 2007 a show was recorded and later released as a CD entitled "Live At The Zebra." Recorded in Bozeman, Montana, the live album received many great reviews from the local press. After a solid summer of lucrative gigs throughout western Montana the Horsemen generated enough capital to put together a complete recording studio. This period also brought about the composition of many new songs, to the point that recording a full length album presented the only sensible next step.

In late ’07 and early ’08 the band began experimenting with their recording equipment and learning the various techniques employed by professional engineers in order to obtain clear, yet entirely real, production. The members dedicated themselves to performing each track without the aid of triggers, voice correctors, or cheesy guitar direct-in boxes. The album would be performed with precisely the same energy and enthusiasm as those of the 80’s thrashers which influenced them. Finally, on June 18th the band began recording of drum tracks for the debut album.

The long process proved, however, too arduous for one of the founding members and on November 29, 2008, The Four Horsemen suffered the departure of Matt on guitar due to diverging musical tastes and a general lack of interest. Despite this loss, the band finished recording the album on January 17, 2009 with Jared playing nearly all lead and rhythm guitar tracks. It was also decided that Aaron should return to his desired role as a guitar player. With the release of their first album on the horizon, the search for a bass player began.

While in limbo during the summer of ’09, the three remaining members determined that too many other acts went by “The Four Horsemen” and decided that, with the release of the debut album, a name change was appropriate. Due to the song’s lyrical content, “Judgment Hammer” presented itself as the best choice. After preparing the album’s release, however, the band faced yet another blow; Joel’s musical tastes and goals had changed to the point where he could no longer play in the band either.

Just as in the past, the band used this stumbling block as a spring for further success and on November 1 solidly filled the lineup with Dustin Fugere on Bass and Sid La Tray taking over on Drums. With the lineup complete, Judgment Hammer finally released their debut album, “Arbiter of Fate,” on November 24, 2009.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Judgment+Hammer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.