There is more than one artist with the name Juggernaut:

1. Juggernaut was a Texas thrash metal band known for their outragous live shows and off stage antics. Two albums were released, both on Metal Blade records: Baptism Under Fire in 1986 and Trouble Within in 1987. Both are available on reissue by High Vaultage records with generous bonus tracks. Juggernuat disbanded in 1993.

2. Juggernaut is a Hardcore/Death Metal Band from France. 

3. There is also a hardcore band from Vienna, Austria called Juggernaut. 

4. A newer powerviolence band from brandon florida.

5. Juggernaut is a drum and bass producer from the UK.

6. A dutch electronic Hardcore formation that now performs under the name Ruffneck

7. Juggernaut was the original name of the portuguese minimalist electro punk band Deceptacon Youth. Under that moniker they released the "Raw, deformed and unfinished" demo.

8. Juggernaut was a stoner metal band originating from St. Louis Park, MN. They released an EP and a full length album; called Deliverance and Black Pagoda respectively.

9. JUGGERNAUT was a Hardcore/Punk band from Bandung City - Indonesia they are performed in a middle 2009. another project from a member of krisisidentitas and gladiator the punk's band from Bandung - Indonesia.
"Never forget the roots, still with the same boots"

10. Juggernaut (Italy) was formed in Florence in the '80s, hardcore punk trio with Mark C. on guitar and vocals, Vincent A. on bass and vocals, Gian Marco V. on drums and vocals. Integral part of the famous Grand Ducato HC, playing all over Italy from 1982 to about 1988, also doing backing band in a concert of the MDC. Several track record of including Lp names Juggernaut of 1984 and various compilations, Goot From The Boot, Senzatregua, Last Christmast White, a self-produced live album at Victor Charlie, Live Free or Die, and a recent compilation by Urla dal Gran Ducato V.2 with some unreleased tracks. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Juggernaut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.