Underground hip-hop group from New York City. Consisting of Bronx-born siblings Breezly Brewin', Buddy Slim and Heroine. There is also a 4th member, DJ Boo, but he rarely appears in pictures with the other three. For all their skill, the Juggaknots have released only 3 albums.

Born and raised in the Bronx, the sibling-centric Juggaknots first gained underground renown for their appearances on Columbia University's Stretch Armstrong & Bobbito radio program. When a record deal with Elektra went south, Bobbito Garcia issued their Clear Blues Skies vinyl-only EP on his Fondle 'Em label in 1996. Like almost all of the releases on the label, the record was out of print before most people got a chance to hear what all the fuss was about. Brothers Buddy Slim (Kevin Smith), who acts as the group's main producer, sometimes under the name Fever the Kid, and Breezly Brewin' (Paul Smith), whose steady, effortless-sounding flow won him acclaim, though he never really found much fame, kept busy with outside projects like The Weathermen. A Juggaknots collaboration with Company Flow and J-Treds appeared in 1998 under the name Indelible MC's and was featured on the Lyricist Lounge comp. The following year, Breezly worked with Prince Paul on his Prince Among Thieves album. Clear Blue Skies was reissued on CD -- along with ten new songs and a remixed version of the title track -- in 2003 by Third Earth Music, and the duo added a third member, sister Queen Herawin (Peridot Smith), who had been too young to participate before. A decade after their debut EP was released, their follow-up, Use Your Confusion, featuring beats from both brothers as well as Stones Throw's Oh No, among others, and recorded while the three continued their day jobs as teachers in New York City public schools, came out on Amalgam Entertainment. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Juggaknots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.