Jarad Anthony Higgins (born December 2, 1998; died 8th December, 2019), known professionally as Juice WRLD, was an American hip-hop musician from Chicago, Illinois. He was primarily known for his breakout hits, "All Girls Are The Same" and "Lucid Dreams", the latter of which peaked at number #2 on the Billboard Hot 100. The album enjoyed positive critical reception, and contained three other singles: "Armed and Dangerous", "Lean Wit Me" and "Wasted", all of which charted on the Billboard Hot 100. He released his debut studio album "Goodbye & Good Riddance" in May 2018. It has since peaked at #4 on the Billboard 200. 

After collaborating with Future on the mixtape "WRLD on Drugs", which was released later that year and peaked at number #2 on the Billboard 200. He also contributed to the soundtrack for Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse. Juice WRLD announced his second album, Death Race for Love, which was released on March 8, 2019. It was preceded by the singles "Robbery" and "Hear Me Calling", with the former making its debut at number 27 on the Hot 100.

Higgins started his musical influences as being genre-wide going from rock music to rap music. Higgins stated that his biggest influences were rappers Chief Keef, Travis Scott, The Weeknd, Kanye West, and British rock singer Billy Idol. His other influences included Wu-Tang Clan, Fall Out Boy, Panic! At The Disco, Black Sabbath, Megadeth, 2Pac, Eminem, Kid Cudi and Escape the Fate. Higgins' music has been branded as "emo" and "rock" leaning, "genre-bending" with music focusing on having a "every broken heart, every wounded feeling."

On December 8, 2019, Higgins suffered a seizure at Midway International Airport in Chicago, Illinois. According to the Chicago Police Department, Higgins was conscious and bleeding from the mouth when paramedics arrived on the scene. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he has pronounced dead shortly after. Higgins was 21. On December 22nd 2019, The Cook County Medical Examiner stated that Higgins died on 8th December 2019 as a result of toxic levels of oxycodone and codeine present in his system. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Juice+WRLD">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.