There are multiple artists by the name of Juju.

1) American Rapper/Producer The Beatnuts - Junkyard Juju
2) Finnish rapper, who mixes Hiphop and Reggae sounds
3) Japanese pop/R&B singer-songwriter
4) American Jazz group
5) A Drum ´n´ Bass / Dubstep producer
6) Dutch Hip hop producer
7) Mid 70's afrobeat group from Mozambique
8) American post-punk/darkwave group
9) Juju, female german rapper, former part of the german Rap Group "SXTN"
10) Rapper from Glasgow

1) Juju aka Junkyard Juju is a Producer / Rapper from Queens, New York and 1/2 of the The Beatnuts.
The Beatnuts are 1 of the most legendary Hip Hop production crews of All-Time. With production from all the legends of Hip Hop such as Mos Def, Common, MC Lyte, Fat Joe, Big Pun, Terror Squad, Tony Touch and hundreds of huge productions on huge hip hop records going all the way back to 1991 with production on Stereo M.C.s and Monie Love. Jujus group The Beatnuts as a Rap Group have sold millions of records and are known worldwide through the 10 classic Beatnuts records out as well as the cult following on Intoxicated Demons released in 1993.

2) Juju (Julius Kivi) is a Finnish rapper, whose style has vibes of hip-hop and reggae. Born in 1984, currently living in Tampere. Has released "Juju ep" in 2005, and his debut album "Sekavuudesta selvyyteen" in 2008.
After his solo album, he started to be known better for his own music, and not just for a couple songs with Opaali.
His second album, "Mustavalkosta" was released in 2011.

----------------------------
3) JUJU is a Japanese pop/R&B singer-songwriter under Sony Music Japan Associated Records label. She has released three albums thus far and gained recognition in the music industry in 2008 with her collaboration singles with Spontania.

JUJU wanted to be a jazz singer since the age of 12, and at 18 years old, she went to the US from Kyoto, Japan. 

She performed live in New York’ famous JAZZ MUSICAL, and has been establishing her own sound in the center of music of the world with influeces such as R&B, HIP HOP, SOUL, LATIN and HOUSE, besides Jazz. 

Since 2001, she has been featured in more than 10 songs. On 10 October 2007, she released her first full album, Wonderful Life. 

On 12 December 2007, she released her first doube A side single, Wish for snow / 奇跡を望むなら…Xmas story. is the ending song (October) for the dorama, たけしの誰でもピカソ (Takeshi no dare demo PIKASO), and the dwango.jp TV-CM song. 

She gained recognition in the Japanese music industry in 2008 with her collaboration with Spontania on the track "君のすべてに" (Kimi no Subete ni) and the answer song "素直になれたら" (Sunao ni Naretara). 

In 2009, the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) certified her 2009 singles "やさしさで溢れるように" (Yasashisa de Afureru you ni) and "明日がくるなら" (Ashita ga Kuru nara; a collaboration with JAY'ED) double platinum for Chaku-Uta digital sales denoting more than 500,000 legal downloads. 

Her 2006 single, "奇跡を望むなら..." (Kiseki o Nozomu Kara...) was also certified platinum (250,000 downloads) the same year.

4) A New-York based Afrocentric Jazz group based around the saxophonist James Plunky Branch. This group recorded two LP´s in the early seventies for the Strata East Label. The Soul-Jazz project Oneness of Juju is an offspring of this group.

5) The other artist by the name of Juju is Drum´n´Bass & Dubstep DJ and producer.

Born and raised in Colombia, South America until the age of 16, Neil Zarama, aka Juju, developed and nourished his musical palette from his diverse background. From one country to another, Juju’s musical tastes as a teen expanded through an array of styles ranging from Punk and Metal to Latino-Afro rhythms and Dub culture. Juju began his DJ’ing career in 1991 playing Dub, Reggae and Dancehall music. He secured his first Drum and Bass residency in late 1994 at “The Jungle,” the first exclusive Drum and Bass club in San Francisco, making him a pioneer key player in the San Francisco and US Drum and Bass scene.

PRESENTE
Juju is currently one of the busiest and most established DJ/Producers in the Americas. Respected for his fierce DJ’ing, programming and exclusive dubplate selections, Juju is in heavy demand throughout the States, Asia, Europe and South America. In San Francisco, Juju hosts his own club night, PHUTURO, one of the nation’s longest running and most respected Drum and Bass weeklies (8 years). Abroad, Juju has been shaking international dance floors from the UK to South America. Juju is also tearing up dance floors in Asia, playing gigs throughout Japan and holding down for 2 years an exclusive DJ residency at Hong Kong’s (now defunct) largest Drum and Bass party, HARD DRIVE (cloud 9). In South America he has become a favorite, hosting a string of collaboration parties in conjunction with Simpl3 Crew (Venezuela) and now teaming up with Seven Records in Mexico City to collaborate with parties across the border!

On the production front, Juju has been setting high standards being one of the first American Drum and Bass artists to be signed to multiple top-notch UK labels, including Liquid V, Renegade Recordings, Trouble on Vinyl, Soul:r, Invaderz Transmission and Advanced/CIA. Ranked as one of the top Drum and Bass producer of the moment, Juju has set the pace for international artists in the genre. In the States, Juju has had a string of successful releases on almost every major Drum and Bass label, making him one of the most prolific and well established artists around. His studio projects have included working with Spirit, Digital, Calibre, K [Polar], Abstract, UFO, Hive and his label partner DJ Craze.

In 2001, Juju launched his own imprint Phuturo Recordings via S.T. Holding Ltd (UK). The label has been making waves throughout the Drum and Bass scene worldwide. Phuturo’s release schedule is pure class with an eclectic mixture of international Drum and Bass artists including Juju, Calibre, Klute, Baron, Greg Packer and Drumagick.

PHUTURO
Juju has just finished remixing two classic Drum and Bass anthems, Source Direct’s “Yo Bitch” and Spirit’s “Moving Target,” which have been causing damage in the dubpate circuit. Also, Juju has teamed up with Dj Craze to form cartel recordings and with Spirit [metalheadz] on a side project label called Phuturo Inneractive.

In 2006 Juju started a new label called Narco.Hz with the intention of pushing his dub/dubstep production, which has already taken off with a bang! Booked for Dubstep gigs all over America, Japan and leading the Dubstep movement worldwide. Expect to see Juju touring Japan, the Americas and Europe extensively in 2007. You can catch Juju DJ’ing at his weekly Phuturo/Narco.Hz in San Francisco at The Top or in top-notch venues worldwide!” (source: http://www.myspace.com/jujutek)

6) A Dutch hip-hop producer from Urmond, The Netherlands. His production style varies from a dark sound to very moody and relaxed productions

7) Juju is a psychedelic jam band from Pomona, CA. The band consists of Phil Pirrone (ex-Casket Salesmen) and Andrew Clinco (Incan Abraham). Visit their Facebook page for more information http://www.facebook.com/261840337204911.

8) Juju, a mid 70's afrobeat group from Mozambique, released the polyrhythmic, somewhat psychedelic album "A Message From Mozambique" in 1973, and may have released others.

9) Juju, german rapper, former part of "SXTN". First solo Album released on 31.05.2019 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Juju">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.