"About JULIAN JEWEIL
Julian Jeweil, dj producer and high value from the french electronic scene discover techno at the "enfanthome" party in Marseille, the Sun City on the french riviera. This event were a revelation, the start of never ending passion. To 2001, Julian played on many underground parties from his region, this same year he got into Fight Klub crew. He became resident, and played in more than sixty parties. In two years he succeed to push himself high and became a inescapable dj. He played in many wellknown south of France events with artists like Colin Dale, Jennifer Cardini, John lord Fonda Marco Bailey, Los Hermanos, MillimÈtric, AndrÈ Dalcan, Monika Kruse, Dj Tonio, Antony, Miloch, Ralph ;-) Alex k, Tekmics Crew... In 2003, new electro and minimal tendances overflow in south of France, it became a new revelation for him. That same year, he start his producer career, after bought some electronic machines, he discover a new playground. He shut in himself in his studio for three years, learn, assimilate, experiment and create... In 2006, the alchimie between his influences and his technical devotion for creation, give him some good melodious and powerfull tracks with deep emotions. He decided to send a demo to Calme Records, Electric Rescue touched by his feeling proposed him to developpe his artistic work on a long period. But this long period became very short because Julian progressed very quickly. Electric rescue wanted to create a new label and proposed immediatly to julian to produce the first release. Julian got into the skrytpöm crew and shot his first arrow: the gorgeous "AIR CONDITIONNE EP" palylisted by VALENTINO KANZYANI no1, FUNK D'VOID no2, UMEK, ANGEL MOLINA, TONIO, PAUL NAZCA, DELON & DALCAN, HERNAN CATTANEO... A second ep will be ready soon..." -http://www.myspace.com/r2djull <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Julian+Jeweil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.