Like cavemen with calculators, this Lawrence, KS trio weld an angular prog attack to headcrushing sludge rock. The result is a perfect alliance of imaginative musicianship and a thorough ass beating.  Jumbo's Killcrane was formed in fall of '98 in Lawrence, Kansas by battle drunks Ervis Jug and P-Rock. Their first album 'scratch' was released in 1999 by Tarlick Records and followed by extensive pirate touring of the US. While Jug played most of the bass tracks on 'scratch', a man named Riley (he would give no more information than that) was the bassman on 'Il Cadavers Eccellente'. Riley was also part of most of the tours through August 2000, but then quit because of several factors, none of which neither P-Rock nor Jug had time to listen to. JKC's 2000 release, 'II Cadavers Eccellente' was recorded and mastered in Milwaukee at Kneever-Kneever land studios with engineer / producer "Evil" Paul Kneevers.The studio just happened to be on Dahmer's old cruising strip, a site sure to inspire any musician. Evil himself even put down some organ on 'mount roy'. The tracks were laid on two June days in the middle of a small tour in summer 2000 and the record was once again released by Tarlick Records. The year 2002 saw the recording of 'Carnaval De Carne', tracked and engineered by Jeff McNulty (of the Seattle based edu-core band Bloodhag) at Uptone Studios in Tacoma WA. Crucial Blast Records will release the album via Lumberjack distribution in March 2003.  After many lineup changes, Brodie Rush of Be/Non and Paul Mendez share duty on second guitar and Anthony Diale of The Esoteric has taken the permanent bass slot to complete this quartet of seasoned musicians. As a four piece , the band's sound has developed into raw, untamed raucuosness with more dimensions and more depth. Consistent touring and recording a new album in 2002 was the plan for JKC, and they followed through. Summer tour included a performance at Emissions From The Monolith IV, in Youngstown OH, in the spring, JKC toured the west coast with their freinds and mentors Season To Risk, and in the fall, yet another west coast tour. With a hearty road-dog ethic and tours being booked for January, February, and April / May 2003, these guys have gotten the point across to thousands of people all over the U.S. JKC continues to plow forward and explore the backwoods of loud, obnoxious music?just as the voices in their heads keep telling them to do. This is one band that is always on the road. So, in the words of Chris Barnes from Hellride Music, you should go to your local club, "Close your eyes, aim your ears and open your mind. Fucker."

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jumbo%27s+Killcrane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.