Jungle by Night is a young and swinging, promising band from Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Friends, family and former strangers form a nine-headed ensemble, which is the talk of the town at this moment. Being different from the slipstream of young bands that find their inspiration in British and American pop, Jungle by Night is inspired by music away from the mainstream. Their music is a mixture of Afrobeat from Nigeria and Jazz from Ethiopia, played with a Western rock attitude.

Not only is their musical style unique, the release of their first track ET wasn’t available on CD or MP3, but is released by Kindred Spirits on 7” vinyl. The release party in a packed Paradiso drew the attention of the media and promoters. The result was unheard of. The young band Jungle by Night preformed at festivals like The Great WideOpen and was asked to the stages of Melkweg and Rotown. Contradictions galore at venues as squatters dome OT301, rock n roll stage Pacific Park and mainstream venue Heineken Music Hall, where they supported the John Legends & The Roots’ concert. Jungle by Night showed and convinced everyone that they are worthy of all stages. Living memories come back reminiscing of the performance the band gave as support of Ethiopian jazz legend Mulatu Astatke. It was his music that inspired the repertoire of the band. Dutch radio station Radio6 and streaming service 22Tracks.com embraced the band, and prime time TV program De Wereld Draait Door invited them to the show. It is an understatement that Jungle by Night is well liked within de Dutch borders and foreign adventures are awaiting.

In December 2011 the band performed in Alimentation Générale in Paris for a wild crowd. Afterwards the band was honored with a jam sessions with former band members of their hero Afrobeat legend Fela Kuti. Crossing borders to England is awaiting in 2011, as well as already planned gigs in Belgium. On Noorderslag 2011 the band will play a taste of their live EP. This EP is bound to be released in April on Kindred Spirits.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Jungle+by+Night">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.