Delroy  'Junior'  Reid originally came into prominence around 1983/84 as part of the Waterhouse crew, a dancehall singer collective who sported a signature style, which included Reid, Half Pint, and Yami Bolo, among others. He started on the Youthman Promotion sound system owned by the legendary Sugar Minott, and quickly gained fame in Jamaica and dancehalls abroad from such hits as "Original Foreign Mind", "Reggae Gone Cross the Border" and his take on Michael Jackson's "Human Nature".

Upon the departure of Michael Rose from the Grammy-award winning group Black Uhuru in 1985, Reid was chosen to fill the front-man's spot. Comparisons between Reid & Rose's styles occured quickly, and Reid was even considered a Rose imitator...due either to his performing old Uhuru hits or his adoption of the "tu-tu-tweng" style which was Rose's trademark. Nonetheless, Reid made his mark on two Uhuru albums, "Brutal" and "Positive", and continues to perform Uhuru material to this day.
He left Black Uhuru soon thereafter, and in 1990 he recorded an album and scored a hit with the same name which would be his anthem. "One Blood" defined Reid's solo identity and the name Junior "One Blood" Reid is known by every reggae fan worldwide.

Throughout the rest of the 1990s, however, Reid had little success in scoring hit singles, and recorded albums without much response. His most notable tunes were deejay combinations, particularly Bounty Killer ("Seek God" and "World Too Haunted"). Then, the turn of the new century brought an entire new audience to his music.

Junior Reid was spotted in 2006 when he was featured on The Game's track "One Blood" from his sophomore album "The Doctor's Advocate". The hit song featured a sample from Junior Reid's "One Blood". The artist was also featured on the video and TRL performance. He has also scored a hit in the remix of rapper Mims' smash hit "This is Why We Hot" (2007).
Reid continues to tour the world and is enjoying a rebirth in the hip-hop world with his catchy yet raw dancehall vocals, remaining relevant in a tough, ever-changing business.

Other Hip-Hop tracks worthy of note are the Poor Righteous Teachers track "Dreadful Day", Wu-Tang Clans' "Jah World" and "One Blood Under Wu". Peace. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Junior+Reid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.