Hailing from the small market town of Kettering, Northamptonshire, Just Kiddin have placed no limitations on their sound. Having already gained props from industry heavy weights such as Duke Dumont, Tensnake, Gorgon City and The Magician, the last 18 months have been nothing short of defining for this on-form duo.

Having grown up together from a young age, Lewis and Laurie have created a unique production recipe that is firmly focused on the art of creating organics, multi-dimensional music. Drawing on their experiences as musicians - Laurie playing the drums, and Lewis playing guitar - their productions start from simple grooves that slowly introduce the smooth and addictive melodies that the boys have become so known for.

2013 saw Just Kiddin make their introduction via Nurvous Records with the ‘Intimacy’ EP. After being premiered by XLR8R, the online support poured in with features on Do You Like That Sound and Gotta Dance Dirty to name but a few. 

With a new fan base developing, their eagerly awaited follow up release ‘Time, Space & Honey’ came on Ministry Of Sound’s underground imprint HK Records. The online support was overwhelming with features on Clash, Noisey, Sub Soul, Topman CTRL and Eton Messy, which saw Just Kiddin starting to play shows around the UK alongside acts such as Bohdi, Second City, Leftwing & Kody and Cause & Effect.

Coming from a musical and DJ background, their club performances have also brought rapturous acclaim. Breaking the mould of the laborious bedroom producer turn DJ - Just Kiddin are a welcomed breath of fresh air behind the booth, bringing charisma, energy and faultless tune selection at any given time of the night. Such skills have won them numerous plaudits from promoters and clubbers a like, showing signs that they have what it takes to take centre stage.

Just Kiddin’s breakthrough came when they were invited to remix Claptone’s summer hit ‘No Eyes’ on Exploited Records. Their remix was premiered exclusively by Mixmag and went on to feature in their Top 10 Exclusive Downloads of 2013 at #4, garnering a cool three million views on YouTube channel The Sound You Need along the way. 

They were quick to react with a special free download on Eton Messy Records called ‘Feeling Better’. Having been a prominent feature in their sets over the summer, ‘Feeling Better’ caught the attention of Rob Da Bank on BBC Radio 1, who dedicated the track to all of his fellow DJ’s and friends that had been in Ibiza with him that season. A fitting tribute to such a sun soaked song. Further Radio 1 support came from B.Traits, Monki and Phil & Alice - making the release a huge success.

Closing the year with a double feature on Black Butter Records ‘Spread Love Vol. 3’ compilation, Just Kiddin have laid the foundations for a glittering 2014 - starting proceedings with a bona fide summer anthem ‘Thinking About It’ that is already picking up serious attention. 

Since being secretly premiered as the opening track on The Magician’s ‘Magic Tape 41’, and featuring as an untitled track on Soundcloud channel #Unknown, ‘Thinking About It’ has instantly caught the attention of music lovers worldwide and initially generated an online hunt to unveil it’s creator. This interest led to US based online tastemaker Thump! posting a feature entitled ‘The Magician knows how to pick a winner’ where they stated ‘whatever song he uses to start off his mix inevitably becomes internet sensation’. Having collected over 200,000 plays across Soundcloud and YouTube already, they have not been wrong thus far.

Set for release on Eton Messy Records this summer, ‘Thinking About It’ is the first in a new series of original music to come from this exciting duo. Having already broken out into Lithuania, France, Belgium and Spain respectively - the word is fast spreading that Just Kiddin have exactly what it takes to be the UK’s next breakthrough act.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Just+Kiddin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.