Kevin “K Mack” Mack was born in Baltimore, Maryland on July 23, 1973.  Attending Baltimore public schools is where he began his love for music, entering school and local talent shows to get exposure in the community. In 1992 KMack dropped his first demo tape with 2 other childhood friends to make up the group Force of Terror. Then in 1994 he started another rap group with 3 other friends called “Dome Swella’z” that were well known in the local rap ciphers around the city.

In late 1994, the group decided to go separate ways. KMack went solo for 4 months working with local producer Jay Funk on a 6 song demo, which landed a deal with a local independent label ran by Baltimore’s’ own DJ Concrete called the “Concrete & Wiz Foundation”. The Concrete foundation signed another solo artist by the name of Silouette, which would soon be the other half of the duo Annexx Clique. The Annexx Clique began doing intros for D.J.Concrete mix tapes in 1994 to start the buzz in the streets, which was the marketing plan of the label to see the response of the public.  After their debut and introduction, the streets were on fire.  There wasn’t a car that rode in the streets of Baltimore that wasn’t banging a Concrete tape, which featured the Annexx Clique.

From all the love that was shown in the streets, in 1995 the Annexx Clique was ready to release their first finished project, a compilation album that featured collaborations of the group and solo tacks of KMack and Silouette.  The classic compilation was titled “Concrete Foundation Presents Annexx Clique”. Which the streets later nicknamed the release “The Blue tape”.  With street anthums from KMack, “In Baltimore”, “Bring it On”, and “Do or Die”, still to this day have left a major impact on the hip-hop community and around the world.  Also hits from Silouette, “Can U Feel It”, Blessin Me” and “Fast lane”.  Annexx Clique was certified Pioneers way before their time. Going on to sell 7,000 copies locally.

After the success of the “Blue tape”, the following year 1996, (CF) was set to release one half of the duos’ solo project. KMack “Unlimited” was first up to bat.  Smashing the hip-hop scene with hard-core street bangers and singles such as “Speak da Clout”. 88.9 strictly hip-hop’s number 1 song “Spot Frontin MC’s” and hood anthem “On the Streets”. Unlimited went on to sell 5,000 copies locally in Baltimore, which was impossible at that time for a solo artist.  After pushing that LP and releasing numerous singles (CF) was set to drop Silhouettes’’ long awaited LP entitled “Chocolate Malibu” in 1998, but in the process of recording and preparing for release, the CEOs of Concrete Foundation began going through financial difficulty which led to a split between the two partners. Just like most music business situations the artist are the ones to suffer in the end.  With the devastation of the break up and real life situations KMack was back to square one searching for direction. Meanwhile being in a position to meet good people and open shows for major artist from Boot Camp Click, Lost Boyz, The Lics, Cella Dwellaz, Jay Z, DDP, and most of all KRS One. KMack have no regrets and is more than grateful to have been apart of one of Baltimore’s legendary hip-hop labels and groups.

After a 3-year hiatus, Mack received an unexpected visit form a long time friend, DJ Billford B. in 2001, who later became “Banga Bill”. The two began working together immediately and was set to release the first EP called “Kiss of Nature”. The first four songs they recorded were on the streets in 3 weeks later. With street Anthems “Kiss of Nature” and “Luv these Streets”, the buzz was back out for the starving artist.

Six months later they were ready to release their first LP self entitled “Street Chemistry” and had there first music video for “Luv These Streets”, KMack and Banga Bill was at a point where they never been with their own label “Golden Mat”. It was nothing that could stand in their way. With more street anthems such as “Let Ya’ll Kno”, “My City” and “Cocktails” a song written for females, the radar was back on the Pioneer.  Performing at bigger venues like All-star week in Philly opening for Mr. Cheeks and running his own label, for the first time ever the future was looking bright and very promising.

Then in 2002, Golden Mat folded and joined forces with a longtime friend and label mate Mr. Wilson of JI900 to form Starstaus Entertainment. After several mix tapes and compilations, KMack began to have feeling of the label being unfocused on what he had started and ended his run with the label in 2003 and went on to sign a deal with Street Official Records.

After one album that featured Ruff Ryda artist “Drag On”, on the song “We Got Guns” and another single with Bad Boy artist “Los” called, “Ain’t Shook At All”, Street Chemistry II was another success. Which led to numerous shows. With the success of the album, KMack didn’t feel at home. So instead of re-signing in 2004 with Street Official, he decided to go back on his own along with Banga Bill to form Knokville Entertainment.

Knokville the name came from another long-term friend and hip-hop duo Ghetto Connect. They called Edmondson Village of Baltimore, Md. Knokville as a nickname. Ghetto Connect released a song in 1996, which described the lifestyle, and on going “beef” between two rival hoods and they called it “Knokville”. To KMack, Knokville was the perfect name to call his label because of what it stood for. He felt that the name describes him as a hip-hop artist and it represented the era of hip-hop that he believed in. So late 2004 Knokville Entertainment was official and active.

In 2005, Knokville released it’s first material “Street Chemistry 3” to pick up where his former label Golden Mat left off with more street bangers “Young Boy”, “The Boy Mack” featured Street Official artist Young Burnes, “Keep Shinin” featuring Bree and “U Decide” a song with co-owner Franchise, “Street Chemistry 3” was the beginning of success of KMack second self owned independent label.

Then later with the departure of Franchise and lifes ups and downs. More bills, children, set backs and losses. KMack and Banga Bill went on another hiatus. IN between that down time they had several projects in the street.  “Blue Berry” and Banga Bills lost songs “Chapter 16”. Then to come back and join forces with longtime Annexx Clique member Siloutte to release “Return Of The Blue” a mix cd of songs that was never going to be on up and coming projects. Then again we returned to down time. With Banga Bills incarceration and KMacks family issues Knokville and the music career was back on the edge.

Then in 2009 the two warriors unite right after Bangas release to start working on their seventh release “Night Ryda” which reinstated the veterans in the new world of hip-hop. Ever since then Knokville Entertainment has not looked back, with a small staff and three in house producers, Knokville Entertainment is hopeful that the world is ready for more creative, golden material. Night Ryder selling 2,500 copies and numerous shows sealed the deal with the new comers.

A year later in 2010 the Duo came right back with a mix tape, which is something they had never done before. To the hip-hop circuit “B.R.B. High Mileage” was a classic and landed mix tape of the month with Street Smart Magazine.

Only to return in 2012 with the new street classic LP, “Undiskovered Mealticket”, which features some of Baltimore’s hip-hop artist such as, The Boy Blesst, Smalls Da Grinch, Tdot, Derrick Rebel, Halfdead, and more. Undiskovered Mealticket most definitely keep Knokville Entertainment in full circle keeping them ten steps ahead of the local hip-hop scene. With two solo artists on the Knokville roster, Kevin “KMack” Mack, with a small promotion, production staff, and strong management team, as well as numerous shows and other up coming events, the KMack Knokville label is receiving its proper respect, and the future is brighter than ever. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/k-mack">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.