BIO:

K Young just 24 years old has already achieved the status of a music industry veteran. This whirlwind of talent has dominated the business since the tender age of 9, wielding the mic and commanding the screen. Having written for multi-platinum artists such as: P. Diddy, Brandy, Ray J, Chris Brown, Lloyd, Game, B2K, Cassie, Young Burg, and more who have all recorded his songs, K Young is the next hott singer/ songwriter for the 21st century.

At age 11, destiny led  K Young into cinching the spot as lead singer for the R&B group 3rd Storee, and signed a recording contract with Yab Yum Records soon after. Produced by Kenneth “Babyface” Edmonds the group went on to have two hit singles, “If Ever” & “Party Tonight.” On the heels of the CD’s much heralded release, the group toured with the world opening for Britney Spears, N*Sync and the Backstreet Boys. By age 16 K Young had begun working with producer Rodney Jerkins of Darkchild Productions to further develop himself as a songwritter, and a short year later signed a lucrative publishing deal with Mosaic Publishing. Proving again as a dominant talent K Young scored 9 songs in the movie “Honey”, singing most of them himself & “Do That Thing” for B2K & Lil’ Kim in the movie “You Got served”. He later hooked up with long time friend Omarion and wrote two songs for his double platinum solo album “O”. Teaming up with his sister Kenisha Pratt who has written for artists such as: Michael Jackson, TLC, Toni Braxton, Brandy, Dido and more K Young’s songwriting career was in position to take off. 

 2010 presented many new opportunities for K Young touring internationally, he made history as the first American Artist to ever do a concert in Sudan, Africa. He independently gained a large fan base with club hits like “Do It” & “Please Me,” that received over 5.2 million views on You Tube and counting. His strong buzz has provided opportunities  for many major tours in countries such as: Dubai, Germany, Oman, Russia, Brazil, Australia and now the US. Focusing on his American fan base, K Young has filled his rolodex with countless features with well known artists such as; Game ft. K Young- Diamonds (Interscope), Bone Thugs’N’Harmony ft. K Young- Meet Me in the Sky (Warner Bros.), Bow Wow ft. K Young- Brand New Sheets (Cash Money),T-Pain ft. K Young- All I Do Is Win Remix, Nipsey Hustle ft. K Young- Roll the Windows Up, Cassie ft. K Young- I Need Love (Bad Boy),  and Yung Berg ft. K Young- Look What You Made Me, just to name a few. After releasing a few incredible mix tapes and creating an overwhelming response, the word is out and fans want more. 

Now signed to his own company, Magic Ink Music; K Young is determined to make his music known and respected by the World. K Young has been in the studio lately with his Magic Ink. Production squad finalizing his highly anticipated EP “Keep Talkin’ Bout Love,” which is set for release in July 2010. As the CEO of Magic Ink, K Young is excited about discovering new talent he is currently in the studio with his first signed artist A*Roc and his sister KeAna Pratt who are guaranteed to follow in his footsteps. With such an impressive resume, it’s baffling to see that it took K Young so long to do his own thing, but he says; “Everything happens for a reason. I am ready now, and that’s all that matters.” It’s this mix of optimism, work ethic, and extreme talent that ensures this young man a spot in the music hall of fame.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/K-Young">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.