The story of K15’s musical beginnings is cloaked in the same mystery that surrounds the name. It’s believed that, as an infant, he agitated his mum by drumming pots and pans in the kitchen – an eccentric choice of musical instruments for an infant. Having exhausted the musical tonalities of pantry instruments, Kieron Ifill, as he was then known, immersed himself with piano and saxophone. During the course of Kieron’s teenage years, he became a jungle music fanatic, collecting records and eventually picked up on disc jockeying. Gradually Kieron caught the house and garage bug. His rendezvous within the house-garage club scene led him to observe the ecstatic effects music was having on people. This phenomenon became his new fascination. 

Then in the early 90s, in a twist of faith Kieron’s musical orientation shifted. Through an acquaintance, he was introduced to the music of 4hero, Miles Davis, Curtis Mayfield, Jay Dee, Jazzanova - to name a few.The delicate sensibilities of neo-soul and nu-jazz had him captivated. He now yearned to create music. Kieron went about procuring a computer with Reason installed and an MPC 2000xl. The succeeding years were dedicated to spending many a sunny days and moonless nights secluded in his room - making noise and occasionally decent music.

Seldom in life, there are moments when one’s journey seems to culminate only to begin. In 2006, Kieron had arrived at such a juncture; all the dabbling within music had shaped and influenced his sound. This very moment was the birth of K15, and the signature celestial jazz-ambient sound is the manifestation one man’s musical journey. 
Having honed his sound, K15 went about working on his debut EP, Theme Music For A Pariah, which was released on London’s WotNot Music. In the year that followed, K15 released his sophomore EP, Umbra, on Amsterdam based INI Movement. In 2013, K15 collaborated as producer on, Lapwing, the debut EP of London based vocalist Belle. In the same year, K15 independently released Insecurities EP, a scorching two-track homage to house music. As well as being a seasoned producer, has a longstanding residency at London’s renowned Jazz Café and a radio show. 

2. Polish pop-rock band from Rzeszów, which reached top 10 at Polish Radio Rzeszów chart with the songs "Rekin" and "Czy lepsze będą dni".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/K15">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.