Try to imagine being in a pitch-black room and getting punched in the forehead from some unforeseen entity without warning. As you try to get up from the ground, you run into the same blunt force that knocks you down again and again and again. This could be one aural description of life-death thrash metal band known as K626.

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart knew the name K626 as his last concerto just before dying. It was a painful work in progress for him that he never got to finish. Picking up the baton of Mozart’s requiem mass was not something Brent Wisdom tried to do, however there was no reason why he couldn’t run with the name and do it his way. Hence, the name K626 became the name of the band in 2004.

Originally, Brent did most of the vocal work on the first two albums; “Beyond the Grave Volume 1 (2005) and Volume 2 (2006) when he decided to concentrate solely on guitar and locate a full-time singer. Enter Chris Shaw. Having played in many local bands and known for his deathly high and low vocal ranges, the band asked if he would be interested in joining. Being that they were from the same city in Crestline California, it seemed like a natural progression for both.

Shortly thereafter, the band quickly got to work on their third release titled “Seven Deadly” and almost instantly noticed a major transition in their musical progression. “Seven Deadly” gain critical acclaim among metal radio DJ including XM’s Liquid Radio and Metal Head Radio, and 1FM High Voltage. They were quickly invited to perform at various metal festivals sharing the stage with such bands as Shadows Fall, Killswitch Engage, Godsmack, Machine Head, and Obituary. Their music started tighten up at this point with constant touring and performing throughout 2008. Recently, the band performed at the Glass House in Pomona California with such bands as Fear Factory, Skinlab, and Bleeding Through.

In mid 2009, the band got to work on their new album titled “The Gates Of Necropolis” which would prove to be their heaviest sounding to date. Produced by Brent Wisdom and K626, Blasko from Ozzy Osbourne had recommended Josh Newell (Korn, Motorhead, P.O.D.) to mix the album. Musically, the band could remind someone of Lamb Of God, Pantera, or possibly Slayer, however it is the high end of the vocal range and the wide array of guitar parts that give K626 their original sound. The album is slated for international release August 4th 2010.

The song to come out of the promotional gates prior to the release of the album is “Twisted”, which has already had a major impact on their fan base having received over 1 million visits and over 700,000 plays on their MySpace page, and currently playing on YouTube, Facebook and various additional websites. Such songs as “I Viking,” “Paths Of The Dead.” And the title track together combine an album that is as mentally and psychologically creative as it is heavy.

The metal enthusiast will not be disappointed when entering “The Gates Of Necropolis”. 



www.k626.net
www.myspace.com/k626
www.purevolume.com/k626
www.indiestore.7digital.com/k626 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/K626">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.