1. Kadaver is a HARSH NOISE project run by Michael Zolotov from Israel and active since 2003.
http://www.kadaverisdead.com/

2.Kadaver is a metal-band formed in 2006 by guitarist Magnus Eriksson and bass player Tor Reimer Rasmusson in the southern part of Sweden called Scania, in a small town called Lund. Their intention with the band, called Avliden at the time, was to give the people around them something that hadn't been seen for a while, well played and brutal black metal. One of the first things that was decided upon was the fact that all lyrics had to be in Swedish due to the nature of it giving our music a much more natural feeling. The other ting that was decided was that the band always will have the line up with four people, one on guitar, one on bass, one on drums and one singer.

The band recorded a demo with Avliden in December 2006 with Magnus Erikson on guitars, Tor Reimer Rasmusson on bass, Oscar Pelin on drums and Albin Silverbåge on vocals and this was to be the line up for Kadaver a year later. The demo called ”Dies Irae, Dies Igneus” contained three songs, the intro ”Det Eviga Hatet” (the eternal hate), ”Neb Consumi Muliercula” and ”Ille Damno Interimo Animus”. But for the first and only gig with Avliden at ”Mejeriet” in Lund February 2007 there was a problem. Albin was working in another country so the band searched for someone to replace him. After a while a friend of Magnus little brother Max said he could do it. So for the gig the band had a new singer, Filip ”GrimFaust” Johannesson. After the gig the band had a break for about six months and started up for real again in August 2007 with the new name ”KADAVER”. Now Albin had come back to Sweden and the line up was restored to Magnus Erikson on guitars, Tor Reimer Rasmusson on bass, Oscar Pelin on drums and Albin Silverbåge on vocals. This lineup held the entire year and the band recorded their new demo/EP “Tortyr” (Torture) in the spring of 2008 with five songs. Three of the songs are new and the two songs ”Neb Consumi Muliercula” and ”Ille Damno Interimo Animus” from the Avliden demo, but with the new Swedish names ”ÄnglaOffer” (angelic victim) and ”Aska” (Ashes). However the release of the EP was delayed to September because of many different reasons.

On the 19th of August Kadaver had their first gig where they played all the songs from the new EP but what they didn't know was the fact that this gig would be the first and last with Albin who later started to study in Jönköping, a city too far away from Lund for him to stay in the band, so he decided to quit and the band stood without a singer again. But it didn't take long before the news about Albins breakup reached the people who knew the band and after just a few days GrimFaust had asked about the guys in Kadaver wanted him back. Since he was the first person they had in mind it didn't take many rehearsals with him until he was the new singer in the band. 

3. Kadaver is a 1man project by Michael Zolotov from Israel. Active since 2003
The sounds of Kadaver shifts from dark and twisted ambient through
industrial till harsh noise and power electronics.

4. Kadaver is a dubstep dutch producer who has released on various labels. He recently released his album Bold on Odio this 2020 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kadaver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.