There are numerous artists named Kage.

1. Kage is a gangsta rap artist from Sacramento, CA.

2. KAGE is also the name of an imaginative, bright, high energy band with progressive roots. With an original sound that ranges from relentless and aggressive to soft and undulating, the band wears its vibe well. Based in the Boston area, KAGE has a niche all it's own carved out with its tendency to draw from positive vibes and a larger force. 

Their unique and innovative debut album "The Nightmare Ends" was recently released and presents the listener with a non-stop story like experience that brings them full circle. KAGE was formed by vocalist Nick Brown and guitarist and writer Layne Lowery in July of 2004 and also features drummer Steve Bolognese and bassist Colin Almeida.

3. KAGE is a Band based in Lusaka, Zambia and churning out incredible sounds with an Earl Klugh guitar tradition. Their music blends Afro Jazz sounds in the footsteps of Dollar Brand and aggressive guitar works. Their debut album entitled" She is a Woman" celebrates the "feminine divine'". Some tracks have a general universal appeal while others are uniquely African or ethnic but melodious. The lead composer Katele and his partner George created "KAGE" in the mid 90s.

4. Kage is also the name of a hard rock/heavy metal band. That was formed in Virginia Beach/Norfolk, VA area. Being popular thoughout the Virginia, Washington D.C., & Maryland areas. They released several albums on local record labels thoughout the 80's - into the late 90's. Two of there albums/cd's are A Change of Seasons, and State of Mind.

5. kage is also the alias of a DJ based in Iowa City, Iowa.  In his own words, "I prefer dancing to funk over rap and listening to classical over metal."

6. Kage is also an up-incoming underground/indie rapper hailing from North Atlanta.

7.  Kage (Jakub Gramowski) is a polish music composer who combined some new age and jazz with a symphonic and little-classical music. There are plenty of strings, pads, pianos, orchiestral sounds mixed with drums and loops in his music. In 2001 Kage recorded his debut album called "Expectancy". In 2004 the most ambitious album of Reflection Music Group (the artist's label) - "Reflection Artists - Panorama" was released. Kage was its creator and producer. Two co-operative authors of some tracks are: Sea (Aleksander Kuźba) and The Stone (Andrzej Kowalik).

8. KAGE (Hironobu Kageyama), a Japanese singer

9. Kage is also an Trip-Hop/Hip-Hop/Chillout/Electronica producer from Tampere, Finland.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.