KAIAPHAS is:

DJ ZHYIN: Programming, Synths, Engineering, Vocals and Lyrics 
LADY OMEGA: Vocals, synth, and lyrics
LIENHARD-Guitar.

Official : www.kaiaphas.de , myspace link: www.myspace.com/kaiaphas .

     KAIAPHAS is an ebm/futurepop/dark electro project from Brazil, formed by DJ Zhyin. Their sound also has strong elements of trance, techno, and industrial. Both light and darkness are represented in the sonic spectrum of the project. There is also a good balance between soft and harsh male and female vocals.

     Long before venturing into the world of electronic music, Dj Zhyin had already been a drummer and vocalist for several underground rock and metal bands. He got his big break in 95, when he was asked to join the famous Norwegian black metal band, ANCIENT, as their frontman and studio drummer. From this point on, his professional music career began and Zhyin was finally able to fulfill his adolescent dreams of metal glory. At this time, he was known as the evil LORD KAIAPHAS.

  Vampiric facepaint, custom made fangs, black pvc/leather, chains, spikes, medieval weaponry, and fake blood had become the order of the day. With ANCIENT, Zhyin appeared in 2 full length cds (released thru metal blade records), 3 videos, and performed in 2 extensive European tours as well as some chaotic gigs in America. In 98, he left the band and began exploring new musical universes.

     5 years later, Zhyin had become an experienced psy trance dj and developing computer music producer. In 2003, he started his new electronic project, KAIAPHAS, with his friend, Victor Salles in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Sometime later, the band acquired a female singer, T.A.T.I. 

     In the beginning of 2006, the line up of the project changed. Zhyin invited the new guitarist - Lienhard and the new female singer - Lady Omega from Russia into the band. Lady Omega had already written some lyrics for the band prior to her joining. A year before meeting Zhyin, Lady Omega had sung on one of the songs from ANCIENT’s Night Visit cd released in 2004. Coincidently, Zhyin had also made a guest appearance on that same album.
 
     From 2004 to 2005 KAIAPHAS performed a good handful of gigs in Brazil in cities such as Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Curitiba. The response was always good and with each gig the band gained new fans. On May 13th 2006, KAIAPHAS played their best gig at the annual THORNS GOTHIC RAVE in Sao Paulo, alongside gothic legends, CLAN OF XYMOX.   

     KAIAPHAS is featured in the November issue of the ORKUS magazine, and their track, Always Invisible is on Orkus Compilation 24 cd, which comes with the magazine.

     The music of  KAIAPHAS has been reviewed by online zines and radio stations with always a positive feedback,
and played by djs throughout European countries, USA, and South America.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kaiaphas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.