There is more than one artist with this name.

1) Kain. Straight from Berlin. Hand-made rock, from the heart. A soulful, energetic voice and convincing lyrics and a german answer of Alice in Chains and Counting Crows. Lead singer Linos´charismatic voice paired with banging guitars, powerful drums and ingenuous lyrics are an explosive mixture which unloads itself regularly at their packed gigs all over Germany. Long before German lyrics have got popular in Germany and every second band came from Berlin KAIN have been on the road. Lino (voc, guit), Nico (guit, voc), Holger (bs) and Paul (dr) are a grown group. The most important thing for them has ever been there music. The intensive fan work takes the centre stage both via the internet and on their round about 150 concerts within the last two years. After recording their debut album "Leben im Schrank" with producer Oliver Pinelli, they are preparing for several support shows with Reamonn. Right after their first headliner tour through Germany and Switzerland starts. The second single "Kaffee zum Mitnehmen" and the record "Leben im Schrank" was released Feb 16th.

OR...

2) Gylan Kain is an African American poet and playwright. He was a founding member, in 1968, of the seminal spoken word group The Last Poets (along with Felipe Luciano and David Nelson). He is known for his particularly aggressive spoken word delivery, and often performs with hand drums or other backing musicians.

He has done multimedia collaborations with the percussionist Z'ev and has appeared with the Dutch jazz/hip-hop/fusion group Electric Barbarian since 2003, appearing on their 2004 album él.[1] His name is sometimes given as simply KAIN or Kain.

His daughter, Amber Kain, is an actress.

Discography
1970 - KAIN: The Blue Guerrilla. 
2004 - Electric Barbarian: él. 

3) Kain es un grupo de metal que proviene de Medina del Campo, una pequeña localidad en el centro de la provincia de Valladolid. Comenzarón allá por el 2002, aunque fue en el 2006 c uando Kain logró llamar la atención de un pequeño sector del público metalero con su lanzamiento de por aquel entonces, "Génesis 4/16". A partir de ahí el sonido del grupo evolucionó hasta "Cuestión de principios", obra publicada en el 2008 y que se antoja mas madura y compacta que su predecesora. Riffs contundentes y letras abrasivas mezclados con una base ritmica aplastante, en pocas palabras.

Su discografia consta de varias demos autoeditadas (Mi hermano es tonto del culo -2002- y Cain -2004) y dos discos (Génesis 4/16 -abril 2006- y Cuestión de principios -marzo 2008- *cabe resaltar que ambos se editaron primero en internet).

Links: (in spanish) Official site
                    Myspace site

4) Kαin, Japanese rock band that formed 2007.07.07. Members are: Yukiya (ex-JILS/ex-D≒sire) on vocals, Shige (ENDLESS, ex-D≒sire) on guitar, Ichiro (ex-JILS, ex-DAS:VASSER) on bass, Atsushi (IBIZA, ex-WAIL) on drums and Akihito Fujiwara (ex-NANA) as manipulator.

5) KAIN (czech) is a side-project of Jiří Urban and Zdeněk Kub from band Arakain. They recorded one album "Project" (1999). Music is heavy/thrash metal with electronic/industrial influences. Lyrics are in czech language.

6) Kain croatian thrash metal band.

7) kain, an utaite from the Japanese video website NicoNicoDouga. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.