Kaine is a British Heavy Metal band featuring Rage Sadler, Dan Mailer, Anthony Murch & Chris MacKinnon.

Rage Sadler & Elliot Jackson started writing together in early 2009. Throughout the year they auditioned bass players, eventually finding Dan Mailer who coincidentally lived a few streets away from Elliot and where the band originally practiced. Two of the first songs they worked on ended up on the band's debut E.P. these would become Lies of the Forsaken and Violent Metal. Later that year the son
gs Helpless Salvation and Unrelenting Chaos were also written the latter starting as an impromptu jam at the bands rehearsals.

 The band started recording the E.P. in 2010 without a drummer, laying down the first two tracks before recruiting Josh Moreton. Once with an excellent drummer behind the kit, Kaine expanded Helpless Salvation and Unrelenting Chaos (which became Entropy) musically and then recorded the new versions of the tracks. To finish off the E.P. Kaine recorded a cover version of "For Whom the Bell Tolls" by Metallica and at Elliot's suggestion a drum solo from Josh Moreton which Rage would dub "The Last Stand of Gibraltar", the meaning of which will one day be fully explained. This E.P. would eventually be released on both iTunes and Spotify through Specky Records. Elliot Jackson left the band in September 2010 after the recording of the self titled debut E.P. Kaine would remain a three piece for the remainder of that year, playing its debut show that same month with revised versions of these songs plus two new songs Champion and Valnir, this show being the only time to date the band has played in D Standard tuning. After losing their Lead Guitarist and remaining in a three piece format, Kaine ever determined to carry on started writing songs for their first full length album. In this time the band expanded, not only its material but as players, becoming attuned to one another and continually improving their performances together. 

Between writing songs the band started auditioning potential new lead guitarists. Dan had suggested a player in the local area by the name of Orrin Fairhead, and after months of on off contact he finally tried out for the band. Despite getting the gig, Orrin was unable to join initially due to work commitments but eventually after a couple of months decided that he wanted to join Kaine. This was just 2 weeks before their Metal 2 the Masses show in Nuneaton. Orrin learned the set and made his debut at that show, which also saw the live debut of the song Waking Dead. Kaine would enter the recording studio in late July 2011 to record their first full length album. The first songs to be released from these recording sessions were Lies of the Forsaken and Violent Metal, which would not be on the album came out in late October. A re-mastered version of Helpless Salvation was then released shortly after. Kaine embarked on a tour of Essex for the remainder of 2011 headlining many shows playing Great Leigh's on the 28th of August and 17th of September, Romford on the 15th of October and Grays Thurrock on the 29th of October, Chelmsford on the 17th of November before finally rounding the year off at Grays on the 17th of December, the month they also left their deal with Specky Records and received their first American radio airplay. The band would debut several new songs live during this period, such as The Lost Sages Tower, Riding Volition, Quality of Madness & Storm of the Devoted. Kaine returned briefly to the studio to continue working on the album over the Christmas period. 

Orrin Fairhead was let go from the band in January 2012 due to failure to play a schedule show with the. Kaine would play their first gig of 2012 with two guest guitarists in Adam Wood and Anthony Murch at the Portland Arms Cambridge on the 19th of January. Anthony Murch would continue on with the band after this gig as Lead Guitarist taking over from Orrin Fairhead and played his first official gig with the band in London on the 14th of February. The band then returned to the studio once more to re-record the lead guitar parts and solos with Anthony Murch. The band continued to tour the Essex and Suffolk area in the build up to the album release, including opening for Remus Down Boulevard, a band featuring former Iron Maiden & Praying Mantis guitarist Dennis Stratton at the Bridgehouse II, London. They also played a gig as a five piece for the first time at s show in Great Leigh's in Essex where Adam Wood rejoined the band for encore of the classics Lies of the Forsaken, Violent Metal and Helpless Salvation. Falling Through Freedom the band's debut album was finally released on August 24th 2012.Kaine then joined Osmium Guillotine in the studio to record the split Killotine E.P. in November 2012 while drummer Josh Moreton left the band that same month playing his last show supporting Kemakill and Absolva and was replaced by Chris MacKinnon. 

Releases:
 Kaine 'self-titled' EP - 2010 (Remastered: 2011)
 Breaking The Surface - Live in London - 2012
 Falling Through Freedom - 2012
 Killotine EP (with Osmium Guillotine) 2012
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kaine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.