KAKKMADDAFAKKA is a Norwegian indie rock band formed and based in Bergen. They are known for their high energy live performances and their pioneering use of social media, and are somewhat of an anomaly in today's music scene. Their sound is almost impossible to categorize, containing elements from almost all the musical movements of the past century.

The band was formed by brothers Axel and Pål Vindenes, together with school friends Jonas Nielsen and Stian Sævig. All classically trained musicians, the band was formed to play a one-off show at a local youth centre, Ungdomshuset 1880, but after positive response the band continued to play many live shows around Norway. In 2006, the band made their first recording and released the EP Already Your Favourite EP which was produced by Matias Tellez and featured the track "OOO".

Kakkmaddafakka released its first LP Down to Earth on 24 September 2007, which reached number twenty on the VG Topp30 Album list and brought the band nationwide attention in their native Norway, despite a largely negative critical response.

Kakkmaddafakka has performed at numerous festivals including Iceland Airwaves, Montreux Jazz Festival, NXNE, CMJ Music Marathon, Southside Festival, Hurricane Festival, Eurosonic Festival, by:Larm, Area 4 Hove and Melt! Festival in Germany, where they were introduced on stage by prominent Bergen musician and friend Erlend Øye.

In 2008, Kakkmaddafakka was nominated as Best Norwegian Act in the MTV Europe Music Awards, along with Madcon, Ida Maria, Karpe Diem and eventual winners Erik og Kriss.

On 25 February 2011, Kakkmaddafakka released their second album Hest. The album was produced by Erlend Øye and released on the label Bubbles. The first single taken from the album was "Restless".

On 28 June 2013, the band released their third album Six Months Is a Long Time. It was again produced by Erlend Øye and released on Universal Music Germany, featuring the singles "Someone New", "Young", and "Forever Alone".

In early 2014, pianist and founder member Jonas Nielsen left the band and was replaced by Sebastian Emin Kittelsen.

The band released their fourth album titled KMF on 18 March 2016. 

In 2017, guitarist and singer Pål Vindenes started a parallel solo project under the name Pish. 2017 also brought on their fifth album, Hus.

In 2019, they released their sixth album, Diplomacy.

Band members include:
Axel Vindenes - guitar, vocals
Stian Sævig - bass, vocals
Pål Vindenes "Pish" - cello, guitar, vocals
Sebastian Kittelsen - piano
Kristoffer Van Der Pas - drums
Lars Helmik Raaheim-Olsen - percussion

Former members:
Jonas Nielsen - piano, vocals (2004–2014)

Additional musicians (also called Kakkmaddachoir)"
Martin Sande - backing vocals and dancing
Sverre Sande - backing vocals and dancing <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kakkmaddafakka">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.