Kaledon was born in the second part of 1998 after the split between the lead guitarist Alex Mele and his band "River of change". 
After the spilt Alex Mele called immediately the bass player Paolo Lezziroli and the rhythm guitarist Tommaso Nemesio. 
After many line-up problems, the band started to play live in the big Roman theatres. 
Kaledon replaced the original drummer "Daniele Staccini" for technical problems with Dario Sacco" 
Kaledon's first release was in autumn of 1999. The band produced their first demo cd, "Spirit of the dragon" without keyboard. 
With this cd started the collaboration with "Metal Massacre on stagte production". 
Fabio Bernardi also in "River of change" join the band like a guest for six months. 
During this period Fabio recorded with the band two promo-cd, "Spirit of the dragon" (same version previous released, but with keyboard), and "God says yes". 
Kaledon played like opening act in Ronnie James Dio Show, in june 16 2000. 

Kaledon open on the web their page. The internet page is http://www.kaledon.com 
Kaledon replaced the drummer (Dario Sacco) for personal problems with "David Folchitto", and the singer (Anthony Drago) with "Claudio Conti". 
Kaledon recorded one other promo cd with "Claudio Conti". The band used the same tracks of the old cd but they replaced the vocal parts with the new singer. The last cd is formed of two songs from "God says yes" and one song from "Spirit of the dragon". 
Kaledon found in Daniele Fuligni their new keyboardist ex keyboard player of "Ghost Rider".
The band start to record "Courage" from the album "Louder than hell", for an (un)official Manowar tribute. Out for Northwind rec. 

In october 2001 kaledon heve signed a record deal with the Italian SteelBorn Rec. (division of Northwind Records).
Between November 2001 and March 2002 kaledon was in studio for the recording session of their debut album. "legend of the forgotten reign". 

During the recording sessions of the debut album Alex Mele started to write the songs for the second album with the singer Claudio Conti.

In October 20 2002 kaledon played at Northwind Rec Festival in Rome, with Heraldry and Demon's whip
Alex starts his biggest opera! 
He has started to write the romance of legend of the forgotten reign.

In April 07 2003 Kaledon started the recording session of their second album called Chapter 2: The king’s rescue. At the end of the recording sessions Kaledon have recorded their “FATHER TIME” version for one Stratovarius tribute album named Within Infinity. 

The band find in Dario Annibali their new manager.

During the 2004 the band worked on the third chapter of the legend of the forgotten reign saga, but unfortunately, during this period the drummer David Folchitto decided to leave Kaledon for personal problems! 
He wants to dedicate much time to his other projects, but he'll work with the band untill kaledon find a new drummer.
In the third Kaledon’s album the drum parts were played by   Jorg Michael (Stratovarius).
Kaledon started the recording sessions of the drums in july 7th 2004 in Como.
The recording studio was in Inverigo near Como, and the rest of the album was recorded in Rome between October and december in The Outer Sound Studios.

The recording sessions of chapter 3 was very long and hard... Giuseppe Orlando was a very good and impressive teacher for the band.... and chapter 3 was a very masterpice.
During the chapter 3 recording sessions Kaledon have been rejoined by drummer David Folchitto. The third Chapter’s name is : THE WAY OF THE LIGHT.

After Chapter 3 release date, the band made a lot of promotion with live dates, with gadgets, and many other ways, The band with Kick Promotion Agency of Rome made tons of interviews and received tons of reviews from all the world!
Kaledon began one big reality in the heavy metal world and without vacation started to work on the next album... Chapter 4...
At the beginning of the recording sessions of Chapter 4 the band broken up the recording deal with their record company SteelBorn records because they was absolutely not able to follow the band in their way... 
The closure of the contract foresees the transfer of the whole contract to another famous, important Italian label. With the new label we had lots of e-mail and phone calls to discuss the fact that never on earth they would have worked in a negligent way as the last label did. 
Their behaviour was worse than the previous one and they told us to find a new label... they never sent us a new contract, and when we had to pay the studios they disappeared.
Obviously we found another company... Universal Metal Production...
This new company gave to the band a support and of course the great possibility to share Kaledon's music in the United States of America!
Probably other companies in the world will buy the licence of the record and of course you'll see Kaledon everywhere... 

Kaledon has signed also for a great european record company! Hellion Records from Germany! They will work for kaledon in all europe

Chapter 4 name is : TWILIGHT OF THE GODS and will be released in USA via universal metal production, in Europe via hellion records and in japan via hot-rockin 
 

 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kaledon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.