This young singer-songwriter was born in Valledupar, Colombia.  A Gemini, he was influential in "La Nueva Ola" ("the New Wave"), a cheerful and catchy form of vallenato that was popular on the Colombian coast.

He was the son of vallenato singer Miguel Morales. When he was 13, he wrote his first song, "Solo he Quedado" ("I've been left alone").  The song was never recorded, but soon afterwards, his father gave him his own guitar to aid his creativity.

During his teenage years, Kaleth wrote a number of successful singles that were covered by different groups. His song "Novios Cruzados" ("Crossed Lovers") was performed by Los Diablitos, "No Aguanta" ("It Doesn't Hold") by Luifer Cuello, "No Seré Tu Payaso" ("I Won't Be Your Clown") by Los Gigantes, and "Mi Reina Consentida" ("My Beloved Queen") by his father.

Some of their songs have been taken as I title of productions, like "the Best thing For Both, album that the union represented of Silvestre Dangond & Juancho de la Espriella, that also included in their but recent album "Me the Game All" success at the moment of these artists. 

"I am inspired by daily histories, own experiences of the friends, experiences and my mother has even served to me as musa; of my father I have learned whom there is to value the endorsement of means and being thanked for with the people who endorse to me. My style of composition is based on romantic letters, with fast adjustments and modern, it is what I call the trip mine" expressed the artist. 

His more recent success is "Alive In the Limb", subject that began to sing in parrandas and every time they were asking for it to it but, until the point that decides to record it the same one and nowadays it is national success, this subject is part of its album debut and which comes preparing from November of the 2004 for the company SONY & BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT, previously Sony Music. 

Kaleth finished the ten semesters of Medicine in the Sinu University of Cartagena, city with which immensely is thanked for by the endorsement and support offered on the part of its friends, companions and mass media, Is about to to begin its boarding school in the city of Valledupar, so that it has sure that its other passion is the medicine and wants to be a great doctor.

Kaleth Morales died the 23 of August 2007, at 2:00am in the highwas of the department of the Magdalena, we will remember it by always whenever it sounds vallenato

by:www.elvallenato.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kaleth+Morales">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.