There are several artists with this name.

1. Kalevala were a Finnish progressive/psychedelic rock band formed by Lido Salonen in 1969. Their 1971 debut album People No Names features Harri Saksala of Apollo fame. The group released two more albums before splitting in 1978.


2. Kalevala (Калевала) is a folk metal band from Russia that formed in 2007

Kseniya  - vocal, lyrics
Nikita Andriyanov - guitar, music
Aleksej Mitrofanov - bass
Denis Zolotov - drums
Ivan Andriyanov - session musician, balalayka on acoustic shows

Discography :

"Kudel' Belosnezhnogo L'na" ( 2008) - Sound Age Production
"Kolokol'chik" (single 2009)
"Cookushkiny Deti" (2009) - Metalism Records
"Tausen-rada" (single 2010)
"Vedma" ( 2010) - - Sound Age Production
"Luna I grosh'' - 2013
"Dohu ja kupila" EP - 2014
"Volchij zov" single - 2014

“Kalevala” was established in spring 2007, after Ksenya?s leaving Russian group “Nevid”.
On the 15th of April,2007 after performance in Penza, it was clear, that  Ksenya’s and Lesyar’s  staying in “Nevid” was impossible, so there, in Penza, Ksenya had a talk about creation  joint project with guitarist Nikita, as he had some folk music material which was insufficiently rigid for Nevid, but quite interesting. “Nevid” returned home without Ksenya, as she had left the city by train before.
The time had passed and   Ksenia had first lyrics for Nikita’s music :”Darling”, “River to river” and “Goy, Dear! ”etc. at the same time they were searching for musicians for the band.

Nikita invited his bosom-friend - accordionist Olen’ (Deer) with whom he had been participated in the Russian folk orchestra at music school. Ksenya made an acquaintance with Bumblebee – a bass player  and vocalist of “Rarog” and he willingly took an invitation to play with the unnamed for that time folk-metal band.

The place at the drums was taken  by  Bumblebee’s acquaintance - Mark, the drummer of the band "Krakatau", but it was only for one jam, on the 2nd his place took Vasiliy from  trash-death band "Reborn in chaos". So the structure was finally approved and since July 2007 constant jams have  started.
The name of the band wasn’t chosen  accidentally.
First of all Ksenya’s  Finnish nature. The 2nd thing is that All songs were written under the influence of Finnish folklore music and famous Finnish bands such as "Korpiklaani", "Finntroll", etc. though the influence  of Russian national folklore is great too. And The third, Bumblebee had a T-shirt which bore an  inscription “Kalevala", which   gave no rest for all band’s members. So,  they decided to name The band "Kalevala", but naturally it  spelled in Russian like  «Калевала».
So the group was ready to appear before the general public on the 27th of September, 2007 and  demo of 2 songs were recorded.

"Goy,dear" (music -Nikita/lyrics -  Kseniya) - Goy, olen!
"The cowboy" (music Nikita/lyrics A. Ahmatova) - Pastushok

The Demo made a success on the internet and many affirmative replies. At the same time There  wasn?t  deserved substitute in Nevid, therefore Nikita decided to leave the band and concentrated on "Kalevala".

On the 5th of October there was The first concert, and on the 5th of April the band released their Album “Tow of Snow-white Flax” in Russian Rock club “Relax”

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kalevala">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.