Kalidia is a melodic power band born in 2010 by an idea of Nicoletta Rosellini (Vocals), Federico Paolini (Guitars), Alessandro Cecchini (drums) and Nicola Azzola (keyboards). With the input of bass player Roberto Donati the band soon started to record its first EP “Dance of the Four Winds” (2012) with Alessio Lucatti (Vision Divine, Etherna). The 4 tracks Ep was reviewed by several magazines and webzines, receiving extremely good response from fans all over the world. These results pushed the band to compose new material for a full-lenght album. In the meantime Kalidia continued to building up a strong reputation, shared the stage with bands and musicians such as Vision Divine, DGM, Timo Tolkki, Kaledon, Etherna, Fabio Lione. In January 2014, Kalidia and drummer Alessandro decided to part company in mutual understanding; Gabriele Basile joined the band in the same month.

Kalidia self-released their debut album entitled “Lies’ Device”, on 27th June, 2014. Recorded between August 2013 and January 2014 at Eden Studios, the album has been produced, mixed and mastered by Alessio Lucatti (Vision Divine, Etherna), featuring singer Andrea.

Between 2014 and 2017 Kalidia continued touring Italy, Germany and the UK – sharing the stage with major acts like Rhapsody of Fire, Serenity, Cellar Darling, Ancient Bards, Vision Divine, Timo Tolkki, DGM and many more. Nicoletta Rosellini also became well-known for her guest appearance with Rhapsody Reunion and as guest singer for Overtures with whom she has been on stage at many European festivals like Gods of Metal, MetalDays, SpazioRock Festival and more.

Once the band started to write songs for the follow-up album to "Lies' Device" they felt that they had some great material in the works. During this period the band was contacted by Lars Rettkowitz [Freedom Call] who was interested in working with the band since he thought they were very promising. The band and Lars connected in a very good way and it turned out they shared the same visions for the direction of the band, so they agreed to work together and Lars ended up producing and mixing the album. Mastering was handled by Achim Köhler [Primal Fear, Amon Amarth, Brainstorm] and the artwork was created by Stan W Decker [Vanden Plas, Primal Fear].

Inspired by classic power metal bands like Rhapsody of Fire, Hammerfall and Stratovarius as well as new bands like Beast In Black, Kalidia have created an uplifting melodic power metal album with the roots in classic power metal with a modern and fresh touch.

In May 2018 Kalidia inked a record deal with Inner Wound Recordings - the new album, 'The Frozen Throne', will be released on Nov 23rd 2018.

Nicoletta Rosellini - vocals
Federico Paolini - guitars
Roberto Donati - bass
Dario Gozzi - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kalidia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.