There are 2 artists with the name Kam. One of them is an American R&B singer (female) and another one is an American rapper (male).

Kam (female singer):

Kam was born in Brooklyn, New York City on October 11th,1990 and then later moving to Charlotte, North Carolina in 2000. KAM is a descendent of Jamaican and Chinese ancestry. Her father, Lone Ranger, is a reggae recording artist (Deejay) in Kingston, Jamaican who recorded over 9 albums between the 70’s & 80’s. Although her father was the star of the family, she learned most of her musical influence from her mother who carried an amazing voice and passed down great influences of music.

Growing up, KAM never really had a home. She bounced from home to home since she was 5 years old; in and out of the care from her mother, relatives, group homes, and foster care. During high school, she began a deep depression, and being that she couldn’t keep any attachments to sports or extra curricular activities, she discovered a stronger passion for music. Music was something she could hold on to eternally, and nothing unstable could keep her from it.

Growing up some of KAM’s musical inspiration came from the majority of artist in her childhood era. Artist like Aaliyah, Beyonce, Shabba Ranks, Buju Banton, Beres Hammond, Tank, Tamia, Toni Braxton, Joe, TLC, Whitney Houston, Michael Jackson & Janet Jackson. 

The message in her music is transparent, it conveys strength, pure love, dance and soulful relationships. KAM desires to share with the world to “Love what you do, always do what you love… because if you don’t you will never truly be happy.” She is simply an urban classy, sexy, sensual young educated woman - who’s love for people and music is evident. 

...

Kam (male rapper):

With his overt sociopolitical stance, somewhat rare for a West Coast rapper, Kam's angst-ridden brand of hardcore rap helped set the mark by which other socially-conscious emcees would be (and still are) judged.

Originally affiliated with Ice Cube, Kam's releases appeared sporadically, initially debuting on the Boyz N the Hood soundtrack, and then releasing his first solo album, Neva Again (1993, Atlantic). His powerful sophomore release, Made in America was released to critical acclaim in 1995, although a lack of commitment due to his political stance by his label at the time, East West Recordings, eventually led to his departure.

He took some time off in the late '90s to pursue other interests before returning in 2001 with his indie release Kamnesia, an ambitious album that found him further engaging street audiences with a slight club-friendly appeal to his insightful rhymes.

Now Kam finds himself aligned with Guerrilla Funk Recordings, arguably the musical home best suited for him, and a long overdue official pairing with Paris, whose political leanings mirror his own almost identically.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.