Kamchatka are a Swedish power trio highly influenced by late 1960s and early 1970s blues rock bands. Their sound combines elements of blues, stoner and psychedelic rock. The band took their name from the volcanically active Russian Kamchatka Peninsula that divides the Okhotsk and the Bering Sea.

Growing up in Varberg, a small town on the west coast of Sweden, Roger, Thomas and Tobias were all rehearsing at the same place, though in different bands, except for the occasional weekend jam session. In their mid teens, Roger and Thomas moved to pursue their musical career elsewhere, Roger to the east and Thomas to the north, while Tobias continued his back home. Some educational years of touring and recording albums with all kinds of different acts later, they met up again in Varberg for a Jimi Hendrix tribute concert in 2001, and after a successful performance the guys simply came to the conclusion that they should start a band. This match was too good to go to waste. Kamchatka was formed.

A few years later, after saving up enough money, they decided to record an album in their own studio (which has been developing ever since), with the help of an old friend of Rogers, Nicholas Elgstrand, who recorded,
mixed and produced it together with the band. Bullen & Sillen, friends of the band, mastered it at Studio Mega in Valinge, just outside of Varberg. An old friend of Thomas’, Per Wiberg, who also designed the album cover, hooked them up with a New York based indie label called Grooveyard Records, where the first Kamchatka album was released January 1st 2005.

After about a year of an occasional gig here and there, which were all well received, the guys started to get restless, so they decided to record another album, subsequently known as “Volume II”, this time recording it themselves on an eight-track, Tobias bringing the technical expertise. Once again they called in Nicholas to help mix and produce, but this time mastered it themselves, lending the gear from Jonas Eckerström, another old friend of the band, mainly with Tobias behind the controls. Per, again, standing for the artwork. It was released on Grooveyard Records in January 2007.

After yet another year of an occasional gig here and there (there is a serious lack of venues to play at in Sweden), they had started recording their third album when the American rockband Clutch, whom they had opened a few gigs for in Sweden in 2007, invited Kamchatka to open for them on their US-tour, which gave the guys their first opportunity to prove themselves to the American audience. After 21 successful performances they returned back home to complete “Volume III”, Tobias standing for the technical expertise, and Per Wiberg adding his magic, this time both with beautiful keyboards,and magnificent artwork. It was mastered by Johan Eckerblad at Mintelligence Studios and released on Swedish label Superpuma Records
at the beginning of March, 2009.

In November 2009 Kamchatka were once again invited by Clutch to open for them, this time on a month long tour of 23 gigs throughout western Europe.

2010 Kamchatka first and foremost focused on the writing of their fourth album. It was recorded and mixed in their very own Shrimpmonkey Studios, once again mainly with Tobias behind the controls, during the winter and spring of 2010/2111, and mastered by Johan Eckerblad at Mintelligence Studios. Like on the previous albums, the cover art is the work of Per Wiberg, who also appears on keyboards on one of the songs. The album is released September 5th on GMR. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kamchatka">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.