KAMP! debuted in 2009 with the "Thales One" EP, the first attempt in Poland to go against the then-popular trends in electronica. Its follow-up, "Breaking A Ghost's Heart", is considered a milestone in the Polish history of the genre. Not attaching themselves to labels, in 2010 members of KAMP! released a double A-side "Heats/Distance of the Modern Hearts" a bit by accident, fitting into the role of "a new hope in Polish electronica" and attracting attention from international labels. The first international Kamp! release was out in 2011 on Portuguese label Discotexas. The premiere of "Cairo" was an impulse for KAMP! to head out in new directions that led to their debut album "Kamp!", released on the band's own Brennnessel label. Dream-pop musings, fitting the album just as well as house tracks, earned KAMP! over 10,000 copies sold and huge demand from clubs and festivals, starting in Shanghai, through London or Prague to Los Angeles.

Summer 2014, KAMP! released an EP by New York City based Cascine, becoming this way one of a few Polish bands so much asserting their presence in the western music industry. This release opened the door to be regularly able to promote their material abroad.

Their second album "Orneta" was a surprise drop in October 2015. "Orneta", as each and every sophomore, especially the one following a commercial success of its older brother, was being awaited and rated even before the first listen. It’s something no band can escape. "Orneta", indeed, is a dancefloor sort of album, but also a contemplative and melancholic one. And, as we’ve seen with KAMP! so far, it blossoms into a rather energetic piece when performed live.

At the moment (2018), Kamp! is working on third album.

DISCOGRAPHY
Turn my back on you (2017, single, Brennnessel)
Deny (2017, single, Brennnessel)
Orneta (2015, LP, Brennnessel)
Baltimore (2014, EP, Cascine)
A New Leaf (2014, single, Brennnessel)
Melt (2013, single, DISCO Texas)
Kamp! (2012, LP, Brennnessel)
Cairo (2011, EP, DISCO Texas)
Heats (2010, single, Brennnessel)
Breaking a ghost's heart (2009, single, Brennnessel)
Thales one (2009, EP, Brennnessel) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kamp%21">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.