As it happens there are 3 bands named Kane:

One - KANE is a Dutch rock band from The Hague, formed in 1998. The two original members were Dinand Woesthoff (lead singer) and Dennis van Leeuwen (guitarist, vocals). They added drummer Martijn Bosman in 2002 after the former drummer had left the band. Their music can be described as soft guitar rock. Nowadays, they are one of the best selling bands in The Netherlands and, after The Golden Earring, one of the most successful rock bands in Dutch music history.

Although formed back in 1998, it is now KANE take their dynamic blend of accessible rock to new fans across Europe. Over the last 4 years the band have enjoyed sweeping success in their own market selling out prominent stadia (2X AHOY Rotterdam 2002) and supporting huge worldwide acts such as Bon Jovi. As Holland's most popular live-band, KANE have performed at all the major festivals including 'Pinkpop' and 'Parkpop'. They have also performed outside of Holland, such as the Marktrock festival (Belgium), Expo 2000 (Germany), Heineken Jammin' (Italy), SuperBock-SuperRock (Portugal) and Rock Werchter (Belgium.) 
KANE was also the supporting act during the most recent Simple Minds Tour, played several duo-shows (Scandinavia and Germany) with their American counterparts The Calling and even delivered a specially requested performance in tropical Curaçao. 

KANE albums: 
1999 – As long as you want this
2001 – So glad you made it 
2003 – What if
2004 – February
2005 – Fearless
2008 - Everything You Want
2009 - No Surrender

With this last album the style of Kane's music changed a lot, with a lot more electrical influences, like 'Catwalk Criminal'.

More info can be found on the KANE OFFICIAL websites: 
www.kane.nl
www.kaneofficial.hyves.nl
www.myspace.com/kaneofficial
www.youtube.com/kaneofficial


Two - KANE was formed in 1998 by Christian Kane & Steve Carlson. Both are accomplished songwriters and guitarists whose passion to create and share their special breed of "outlaw country" soon became a Los Angeles phenomenon.  Packing such hot spots as The Viper Room and The Mint, Christian and Steve became well known in the L.A. community for their strong original songwriting and awesome high-energy performances.   

KANE has received airplay from #1 LA country music station KZLA, been voted the winner of the 2005 Country Thunder Young Guns Contest, been voted one of L.A.'s 100 Hottest Unsigned Bands by industry magazine Music Connection, and Rock City News and E Media Wire Service describe KANE in one word: "Killer."  Despite somewhat limited touring, KANE’s self-released debut CD sold over 4,500 copies in the US, with almost half those copies selling in countries as far away as Malaysia, Germany, Australia and Brazil.  Corporate shakeups led to KANE's second album, the Sony Sessions, being shelved.

Not content to stay an L.A. phenomenon, the two began taking regular trips to Nashville to polish their writing chops.   Nashville exposed them to the thrill of collaborating with some of the best songwriters in the world.  Longtime friend and Bigger Picture partner Michael Powers introduced them to Bob Ezrin, who immediately recognized KANE’s potential.  Christian rounded up one of his favorite creative partners in Jimmie Lee Sloas and KANE soon found a new home recording in partnership with Bigger Picture Group.  

Produced by the legendary Bob Ezrin and Jimmie Lee Sloas, KANE's new debut album, entitled “The House Rules,” drops this fall (2010) on the Outlaw Saints label, a partnership with Bigger Picture Group.  On this album EMI songwriters Christian and Steve collaborate with friends Blair Daly, Brett James, David Lee Murphy, Casey Beathard, Jerrod Niemann and others. 

More info can be found on the (Christian) KANE OFFICIAL website: 
www.christiankane.com


Three - Kane were a London based trio in the late 90's who combined poppy songs with a heavy Helmet like delivery, similar to the band Filter, they recieved lots of airplay in Canada for their track "Get Up 52" and were featured on a Rock It! compilation. They changed their name to Cortizone and released one album "Selling Out For The Sucker". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.