Kara is a name of at least four artists.
 
1) KARA (카라) is a popular South Korean girl group formed by DSP Entertainment, debuting in 2007 with the single "Break It" and the album "The First Blooming". The group consists of Park Gyuri, Han Seungyeon, Goo Hara and Heo Youngji. Former members include Kim Sunghee, Nicole Jung, and Kang Jiyoung. They were originally a four member group where they were marketed as the second Fin.K.L, however Kim Sung Hee withdrew from the group and was replaced with Jiyoung and Hara. They became well known for the "butt dance", which was a part of their "Mister" choreography, and their hit songs "하니 (Honey)" and "Pretty Girl". In 2010 they changed to a darker concept with their hit song "Lupin". In Japan, they are signed under Universal Music. 

On January 2011, it was stated that four KARA members (all minus Gyuri) filled a lawsuit to terminate their exclusive contracts with DSP Entertainment. However, it was later revealed that Hara decided not to join Seungyeon, Nicole and Jiyoung in terminating her contract. Due the conflict DSP Entertainment suspended any Korean group activities as they declared they will no longer be managing the three members.  In October of 2013, it was reported that Nicole will depart from the group effective January 2014. Ji Young also stated she will not renew her contract, which ended in April 5, 2014. Following the departure from the group, she went to London to take language and acting classes.

On January 15, 2016, DSP Media announced Gyuri, Seungyeon and Hara's departure from the group due to contracts expiring. The company also noted that Youngji would continue her music career as a solo artist.  

2) A mononym of Kara Williamson, whose releases under this name include the album Kara.

3) Rock band from UK with female vocalist Kara and musical backing by Graham and Andy of Avalon.

4) Metal band from Finland. This band was used to be called Ankara until early 2006. They had to change their name by demand of Finnish band Ancara. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kara">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.