Website | bandcamp | facebook 
Founded: June 2012
Hometown: Tempe, Arizona, USA
Genre: Deathgaze | Atmospheric | Djent | Progressive Death Metal | Deathcore | Space | Science
Record Label: Metal Blade Records

Kardashev are a progressive metal band based out of Arizona that formed in 2012 and was inspired by technology, love, and altruism. Our focus is to create beautiful, heavy music for fans of death metal, deathcore, atmospheric black metal, and post rock. We make music that we want to hear and share.

Watch them play on Twitch
Join the  Discord

Band Member Lineup:
Mark Garrett

Mark has been with Kardashev since their start in 2012 lending his voice, lyrics, melodic ideas, and overall creativity to the project. He has screamed and sang on every release, filmed music videos, produced music videos, created how-to videos for vocals, compiled numerous promotional videos and content for marketing, is the founder of his own instructional school for singers/screamers called "Kardavox Academy", and has even authored a book of poetry.
Mark is also the vocalist and lyricist for Neverbreath  and Viraemia .

Nico Mirolla

Nico has also been with Kardashev since 2012 and has written every song as the sole composer and guitarist of the band.
Nico is also the "brains" of the band as he manages all of the day to day, social media, publishing, shipping, networking and other administrative duties.
Nico created Neverbreath in 2019 as fun project for his friends to join and express themselves through the lens of Black Metal.
Nico runs a home studio where all of Kardashev's music has been created since the beginning.

Sean Lang

Sean was introduced to Kardashev sometime in 2015 and in 2018 he and Nico began the process of bringing Sean onboard in the role of their drummer.
Sean also owns and operates a marketing firm based in Vancouver, Canada.
Check out his gear here!
Check out more about Sean's other musical projects:
 First Reign 

Alexander Adin Rieth
Alex has been a long-time friend of Kardashev since we were introduced in 2010 through a mutual friend. In 2013, we went on a week-long tour called "The Game of Tones tour" with his then band A Distant Calm.
Alex has since moved on to play bass guitar for Holy Fawn and in 2019, we asked him to join Kardashev as our bass player too! You can hear his first appearance on our album, "The Baring of Shadows".
Check out his gear here!
Check out Alex's touring band:
Holy Fawn <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kardashev">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.