Karin Park is a new name to many outside of Scandinavia, while at home Karin has already picked up two Norwegian Grammy’s and recently supported Azari & III and SBTRKT on their European tour dates. 

‘Restless’ is a dark hooky killer-chorus track, full of Karin’s signature moody electronica sound. With a modern experimental 80’s pop feel and Karin’s unique spell-binding vocal, ‘Restless’ is a massive driving electro-pop track, industrial yet with a commercial edge it crosses the brooding electronic landscape into the mainstream arena. Karin has already earned specialist support from the likes Zane Low, Annie Mac, Pete Tong, Rob De Bank and Giles Peterson. 
 
Recorded with producers Barry Barnett and Christoffer Berg (Fever Ray, The Knife) the album explores Karin’s fascinations with spirituality, sexuality, power, love and hate. Removed from the world as a child living in a remote Swedish town, Karin’s deeply religious upbringing and experiences, including a three year stint in a Japanese missionary school, have provided her with a distance from reality, allowing us to see the world anew through her eyes on this album.  

Live, Karin has proved she’s a forced to reckoned with; her captivating beauty, standing tall at 6ft 3” like an Amazonian electro-gothic warrior, her vocals range from pop to opera and her effortless fluidity of intense vocal performance is accompanied by raw musicianship as Karin graces the keys of analogue synths and struts a white 80’s inspired Keytar across the front of the stage while her Viking drummer of a brother David Park kicks out the dark rhythmic beats of the songs. Karin’s live sets are undeniably electrifying, pushing musical boundaries and encapsulating what it is to be a truly modern artist while dodging any approaching pigeon-holes. 

‘This Grammy Award winning Swedish starlet is off to a flying start’ – Mixmag 

‘She’s wonderful on stage, a natural in the electronica genre’ – Planet Notion

‘The most arresting female voice since Bjork and the driving, sub sonic qualities of the best alternative electronica that money can buy.’ – Datatransmission 

Monday 28th May brings the eagerly awaited release of her new album ‘Highwire Poetry’, the eagerly awaited single from Swedish electro-goth princess Karin Park. 



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Karin+Park">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.