If you believe in Karma then you have to believe that Violence is something innate in every human or inhuman being. Karma in the old and now Indian religions is the concept of “action” understood which creates the entire cycle of cause and effect. Violence from the other hand is inside in each one of us, some people can control and others cannot, but in every occasion it is a part of human nature. Living in the modern world, all of us can see violence in our eyes, in the streets and everywhere. The combination of Karma Violens describes the action of Violence, because every action in these brutal days creates a violent respond. 
Karma Violens created their first lines in music in September 2002. The music is an amalgam of Extreme Metal (death, thrash, black), combined with Hardcore music lines and idiosyncrasy. The music of Karma Violens is not categorized and avoids every music label except the word “Metal” and that’s the way the band wants to keep it. 
After many line-up changes through the years the band finally found its peace in four people, who grew up with metal music since they were kids and expanded their musical influences into the new era of the heavy metal industry creating the music of Karma Violens. 
The first musical signs of the band came with the release of the bands first E.P. named “KATARA” which was selected as “Demo of the month” in the UK’s Metal Hammer magazine in May 2007 and was critically acclaimed by the media, Metal Hammer Greece, Rock Hard Greece and many e-zines. 
Besides the recordings, the priority for the band is to play live with whomever whenever, and wherever, so that the name of the band can reach to as many possible bleeding ears. The band has shared the stage with significant bands such as Fear Factory, The Black Dahlia Murder, Rotting Christ, Septic Flesh, The Ocean, Homo Iratus, Sickening Horror etc.
The new age for Karma Violens has come and it starts with the release of their first album called “Dormancy”. The album counts 9 songs of pure aggressive metal that will make your bodies move!! Recorded at the Devasoundz studios engineered and produced by Fotis Benardo(Septic Flesh) and George Emmanuel(Valet Parn) the result couldn’t be anything else but of high quality. If we add also the guest vocal appearance from Set<h> (Septic Flesh), the feeling became more dark, epic and mystical. Stepping into the next level, the mixing and the mastering of the album took place at Lambesis studios in California, USA owned by Tim Lambesis (As I Lay Dying). There Daniel Castleman (As I Lay Dying, Zao, Winds of Plague, Sworn Enemy) created a massive heavy wall of sound and gave the opportunity to the band to be heard as it should be heavily heard.
Dormancy is not only music but gives the opportunity to the listener to read/sing the lyrics and understand the way the band express its thoughts for the modern man, the world around him and how pathetic he has become because of the bombastic media which feeds people’s minds with shit. Every person has the right to think for himself. This album gives a reason to react against everything that pisses you off. Take these words for granted.

Lineup:
Marios - Vocals
George - Guitar
Costas -Guitar
Steven - Bass
Nikk - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Karma+Violens">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.