Performing on a bar stage  at the age of 14 to a group of drunk, no-compromising, “metal” head to toe audience doesn’t sound like an easy job to do, right? Well, Kasatura had the guts and ..err.. some cover tunes to live through an experience exactly like that without any major childhood trauma which will haunt their lives forever. On the contrary they received so positive reactions that kept them playing on and on ‘til today. 30 plus gigs under their belts before it’s still not legal for them to get a pint of beer from their local liquor store, this young and restless five-piece are now releasing their first EP via Raven Records. 

Formed in 2004‘s last days to perform at a high school festivity by ANIL (drums) and ULAS (guitar), at first the only goal they had in their minds was to play some textbook covers previously written by their idols and ... well... score some chicks. Things got quite serious when they met KAAN (vocals), a four-string enthusiast UMUT and an additional axe-man for dual guitar duties, UGUR. A complete line up (or a battle-ready gang to be more precise) to spill out what they got by all means! 

Getting noticed by their hometown’s audience and myspace users from all around the world made them finally want to record their own thrashing tunes. “Cruel Killers”, their debut material that surfaced from doomy and cold capital city of Turkey, consists of 4 tracks signalling their true arrival to the scene. A brutal madness kicks off the cd after a 30 second acoustic intro. The title track’s ferocious attempt to knock you down only continues with a more right-in-your-face song called “Sacred Suicide”. Breathtaking guitar parts backed up with guttural growls stands out as a perfect example of their youthful angst’s impact damage capacity. 3rd attack comes with the tight and fast riffage of “Dictator”, slightly politically charged lyrics with a neck-breaking rhythm frenzy. “Project Human”, the most experimental track of the debut EP knocks you down with a total blast of excellent fast-paced native rhythm patterns of the land they grew up on, flavoured with what they’ve learned from the genres forefathers.
As they proudly announce “the war is not finished”, it’s just only the beginning!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/KasaturA">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.