After four strong decades of head-turning, spine-tingling, stomach-turning controversy, extreme music seems to be at a standstill. Rebellion doesn’t inspire the same barbaric sensation it did in the early nineties. There’s this all-encompassing notion held by the underground that everything has been done, and there are formulas to be followed if we ever hope to furrow brows and raise questions effectively as a movement.

From its birth, Kastigation has shirked this so-called “traditional” mindset – so much so that it has become our namesake. And due to the all-hands-in creative approach this group has developed, an accordingly broad palette of influences (ranging from Aaron Copland to Buddy Rich to Agalloch and Deathspell Omega) had to be integrated into the band’s sound in a way that both produces songs worth listening to and nurtures a strong relationship between its participants. With this in mind, we’ve married the depth, fullness, and rich texture of progressive metal with the obtuse, angular methodologies of grindcore and avant metal. As opposed to the natural commingling effect many bands seek to attain when combining differing styles of play, our approach stretches these two philosophies to a tense intersection, and the dimensions of sound this intersection creates are as puzzling as they are awe-inspiring.

We believe we’ve developed a sound that appeals to everyone from the sludge-minded hipster to the leather bound, patch covered death metal warrior. And if local shows are anything to judge by, Kastigation’s hooks, build-ups, and contortions are intriguing enough to pack a venue from wall to wall.

In future efforts, our band intends to expand on all present musical elements, and slowly introduce more jazz, folk, and various rock elements. This will inevitably lead to vaster soundscapes, as well as more variation in tempo and rhythmic feel. We’re looking for assistance from a label that’s geared toward the progression of a genre we grew up playing and fell in love with at a young age, and expanding our sphere of influence to a national level. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kastigation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.