Kastasyde was formed in Chicago in 2001 when guitarist Eric Kornfeind, vocalist Jarrett Roberts, and bassist Dustin Roberts came together in search of a common outlet for their musical aspirations. After completing the initial lineup with a second guitarist and drummer, the band began writing music and performing intense live sets throughout clubs and bars in the Chicago underground.

While crafting their relentless live show, Kastasyde recorded two demo’s, “The Ward 8 Demo” in 2001 and “The Breaking Bones EP” in 2003. The demos struck a chord with their fans and in 2005 the band released its debut full-length album, “Hundred Hollow Words.” With the release of the album, Kastasyde began to travel to places such as Arkansas, Wisconsin and Nebraska to play shows, meet new fans, and develop deep working relationships. In 2007, Kastasyde embarked on a two week, self-booked tour of the Midwest and Western U.S.

In early 2008, the core lineup of Kornfeind and the Roberts brothers parted ways with their rhythm guitarist and drummer and recruited drummer Garry Naples to the fold. Garry had played many shows alongside Kastasyde in the Chicago underground, and picked up on the material and chemistry quickly. In June of 2008, the quartet began tracking a three song demo with noted engineer, Chris Djuric. The sessions resulted in “The True Agony Demo,” which showcased a new and more focused direction for the band; one that embraced the chops and precision of modern day American metal, yet stayed true to the roots of the band’s sound. The demo once again caught the attention of the Chicago underground and Kastasyde was soon providing local support for bands such as God Forbid, Death Angel, and Mobile Deathcamp.

At the end of 2008, Kastasyde completed their current line-up with rhythm guitarist, Jerome Marshall. Knowing that a fully committed and capable lineup was in place, Kastasyde hit the road in February of 2009, embarking on AFM Entertainment’s “Indie Metal Invasion Tour.” The tour took Kastasyde back to the western part of the country, but allowed the opportunity to conquer new territory with shows in New York and Detroit. The tour also gave the band the chance to debut brand new material, which is currently being tracked in Chicago for the second full-length Kastasyde album.

Future

The future of Kastasyde is best described as a drive to continue evolving as a creative outlet, to work in favor of exposure and to become a self-sustainable band.

Kastasyde’s immediate goals are to finish their second full-length album, which is set for release in Fall 2009. After that, Kastasyde will get back on the road, with shows planned for October/November 2009 and a tour of the midwest in the works for Summer 2010. An expanded merch line is also in the works, with new t-shirt designs as well as stickers, pins, coasters, and other apparel.

Kastasyde is continually creating more interest and expanding their audience through touring and promoting, and want to find a suitable label to work with. Of primary importance to the band is to make sure their music is extensively distributed for their fans.

Determined to be heard...Kastasyde is here to stay <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kastasyde">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.