Expanding from a background in classical training, Kate Simko has formed her own unique place in the minimal techno / tech-house world.  With roots in Chicago house and Detroit techno, her tracks maintain a warm, soulful character while embracing deep, elaborate structures. 

Kate spent her formative years studying piano and music theory. During her teens she became enamored by underground dance music, gaining a voracious appetite to hear new sounds and absorbing it all dancing until dawn each weekend in the Midwest.  Her passion for electronic music eventually pulled her away from classical piano and led to her to study music technology at Northwestern University, while also directing the dance and hip-hop format of lauded college radio station WNUR.  Towards the end of her studies, she relocated for a composition program in Santiago, Chile, where she met Andres Bucci and recorded their first record together as Detalles.

Reflecting her diverse background, Kate's music crosses genre borders.  Her intricately programmed pulsating melodic techno live PA continues to be a highlight wherever she plays, at home or abroad.  Gaining attention from labels and DJ's around the world, Kate has performed beside artists such as Monolake, Richie Hawtin, Michael Mayer, Matthew Dear, Ellen Allien, John Tejada, Magda, Swayzak and Ulrich Schnauss and played throughout the United States, Europe and South America.

She has received press in The Wire, XLR8R, de:Bug, Mixmag, BPM, Grooves Magazine and Igloo and her Detalles project was named one of the 'Next 100' artists by URB magazine.  A versatile DJ, Kate was named one of the Top 10 DJ's in Chicago by XLR8R magazine.  Her work has been released on Traum Schallplatten, Antenna International and Kupei Musika, and been remixed by Thomas Brinkmann and Atom Heart, while she has remixed Philip Glass and Aeroc (Geoff White), among others.

Currently, Kate holds a monthly residency at Wake Up! (Sonotheque) and works at a recording studio in Chicago.  She has upcoming releases set to come out on Kupei Musika, Spectral Sound and Chocolate Industries.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kate+Simko">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.