There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Philippe Katerine (known as Katerine for his artistic work) is a French singer and composer, who published eight records since the beginning of his career in 1991.
He was born in 1968.


2) Katerine Avgoustakis is a Belgian singer and was the winner of the 2005 Belgian Star Academy, similar to American Idol in the United States. She was born on September 16, 1983, to a Greek father and a Belgian mother.

Currently, she lives in Maasmechelen. Avgoustakis used to be a beauty specialist and before that a saleswoman. During the third quarter of 2005, it was announced that Avgoustakis had been dating Pim Symoens, who was #4 in Star Academy and who also works for JIMtv, a popular Flemish music channel.

Avgoustakis plays the piano and used to be in a choir. She was also a member of her first band Indiana, with whom she participated with for Eurovision Song Contest a couple of years ago, with the song Imitation Love.

Due to the failure of Indiana, she entered Star Academy in Flanders. In 2005, she worked her way to the finale and won the contest and a record contract. Avgoustakis's debut single New Day, released in July 2005 in Belgium, peaked at #2 in the Belgian UltraTop 50 chart. "New Day" was written and produced by Regi Penxten & Filip Vandueren, the team behind Milk Inc. Three months later, she received the TMF Flanders award for Best New National Artist for the song. Also the song was certified gold in Belgium. Her selfnamed debut album Katerine was released on November 14, 2005 in Belgium. The album is to be released in May in the Netherlands. Due the 'unexpected' sudden death of her mother, her second single, Here Come All the Boys, was delayed to be released in October 2005. This is the first single she also released in the Netherlands, that peaked at #89 in the Dutch Mega Singles Top 100. The song is also featured on the hits compilation HitBox, which was released on March 13, 2006, containing hits like Ricky Martin's I Don't Care, Rihanna's If It's Lovin' That You Want and the Michael Jackson cover Say Say Say (Waiting 4 U) by Hi_Tack.

Avgoustakis won the first Belgian pre-selection for Eurosong 2006 on January 8, 2006 with the song Watch Me Move. Because of this, she was sure to have a place in the pre-finale rounds, however the judges thought her voice wasn't powerful enough to win. Despite being considered as one of the finalists, Katerine remained in the semi. 

The third single from her album Katerine, Take Me Home, was released on April 4th 2006 in Belgium, with Watch Me Move as B-side.

These days, Katerine is back with a new single called 'Livewire'. Despite the high hopes, the single hasn't done as well as expected. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Katerine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.