The band was formed in September of 2006. They have released a DEMO in 2009 "Illusion of Dreams", the single "Lebanese Aura" in 2010 and the album Eyes Of Sand (EOS) in March of 2011 in Brazil. Besides the concerts made in Brazil, they have made a long European tour with Angra in February to promote the album EOS. 
The name was created by the vocalist Roni Sauaf and represents an Arabian character that has his story related by the songs showing the people way of living, from the illusions to reality. The idea of mixing Arabian culture elements with Metal and Brazilian Music came when Roni Sauaf proposed to Victor Brochard and Cristian Alex to form a band that counted only on three of them back that day. As they wanted to create something different that sound musical, but also cultural, the result was a singular combination of melodies and rhythms of the Arabian music with the speed and power of Metal. So Kattah was formed with a characteristic style. 
All the members know the Brazilian rhythms which become easier to them join the elements with Heavy Metal and show the value of their roots worldwide. After doing some tests, Jean Buzzelo and Pablo Parra joined to the band. Their union and strength added to the technique and perfect relationship with the group made those two musicians the secrets of the perfect union and discipline defined by Roni Sauaf (Vocal), Victor Brochard (Guitars), Pablo Parra (Guitars), Jean Buzzello (Bass) and Cristian Alex (Drums).
The friendship and the will of playing their favorite songs together were the reason to unite the members of Kattah and make the best performance required for a musical show.
And then, after defining their goals, Kattah wants to work in a professional way in order to reach the aims with responsibility and will-power to get all the quality planned for the future.

Roni Sauaf studied percussion, string instruments and drums during his childhood and youth, and for many years, also studied by his own. At the same time started the lyric singing lessons learning to use many techniques that could provide various tones with his own style and showing all his versatility. Today he is a professional vocalist who keeps the quality of his techniques and always respects his vocal health including diaphragm, breathing and vocal cords that must be controlled perfectly for the correct use of the tones and harmonies variations for his voice projection. His main influences are Dio, Timo Kotipelto, Tobias Sammet, David Coverdale, Bruce Dickinson, among many other respected names of the music history in Brazil and worldwide.

Pablo M. Parra was 16 years old when started to play guitar, but actually his interest for the instrument begun when he was 9 and used to hear his main influences, such as: Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin, Van Halen, Megadeth, Metallica, Testament, amongst others. He had classes with local teachers and improved his techniques at ŇConservat—rio de MPBÓ. On 2003 entered to the ŇMusic Therapy CourseÓ, at FAP. Pablo is music teacher since 2001 and has been working at his own school for 4 years now. His main base are guitarists like Alex Skolnick (Testament), Paul Gilbert (Mr. Big), Vinnie Moore, Eric Clapton, Edu Ardanuy (Dr.Sin), Kiko Loureiro (Angra), and so many others.

Jean Buzzello, from Pato Branco - Paraná, started to get acoustic guitar classes with 10 years by his brother. After that, he had classes with a local bass professor and has been studying by his own since then. In 2007 he moved to Curitiba to study Music at Universidade Federal do Paran‡ and then he joined to Kattah. At the same time, Jean is a bass teacher.

Victor Brochard studied guitar since was 14. He took part of some bands from Curitiba being the Dream Theater cover the most important of them. He is also one of the main composers of Kattah. His influences are John Petrucci, Steve Vai, Joe Satriani, Yngwie Malmsteen, and also bands like U2, Coldplay, Oasis, Red Hot Chilli Peppers, among others.

Cristian Alex studied drums at Conservatório de Música Popular Brasileira, Curitiba. He played in many bands always keeping the Power Metal as main style. His influences are Iron Maiden, Metallica, Raphsody of Fire and Nightwish.

The press consulting MS METAL PRESS is responsible for promoting Kattah in Brasil and Europe and also around the world through the radios, magazines, newspapers, internet, and other media vehicles.
The debut album Eyes of Sand has been produced by Fernando Quesada, who is known in the Brazilian scene for being the Shaman bassist.

He has worked with many important artists from different Brazilian music genres such as Lipstick, Anima, Kimera, Rock Rocket, Laker (Rap Producer), Wizards, End of Year themes for radios with NX Zero, Fresno, Fala Mansa, Cabal, Chimaroots, Exaltasamba, and so many others. Fernando is also one of the Fusio VM&T Studios owners where he produces, records, mix and master the artists work. Besides that, he is producer at Thurbo Music label and has received several awards in the Brazilian scene. 

The material will have ten new tracks keeping the artistic purpose of the band with many oriental references.

The album count on very special guests like Ricardo Confessori (Angra), Fabrizio Di Sarno (Shaman), Thiago Bianchi (Shaman), Fernando Quesada (Shaman), Leo Mancini (Shaman), Dante Sbrissia and Daniel Bittencourt. 

The record mastered and mixed at the Universal Mastering Studios in New York by the renowned producer Vlado Meller who has already signed one of the most important albums of Slayer, Shakira, Metallica, System of a Down, Elton John, Nickelback, Slipknot, Korn, Red Hot Chilli Peppers, Dream Theater and so many others.
The production of "Eyes of Sand" was on account of Fernando Quesada (bass) the band's "Shaman", which proved to be a producer first and showed a great job with Kattah.

With the excellent musicians is hard to single out one, but it calls attention to the Kattah is the voice of "Roni Sauaf" which brings us back to Angra (old).

"Eyes of Sand" is a wonderful debut album right away to a title track that shows the energy band, with a very exciting instrument that holds the listener right from the beginning in sequence, "This Fire" music a more relaxed, but lap band to set foot on the accelerator "Illussion of Dreams" followed by "Deep Feelings", the highlight of the band is up to the song "Lebanese Aura" the longest track that shows the root of all Kattah.

Kattah is a band that has come to innovate with an excellent work, an amateur band already sounds like a giant, "Eyes of Sand" is already among the featured albums of the year. With this debut Kattah shows that it is renewing the national scene with new ideas.

Official Kattah: 
http://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Kattah/3540308520
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kattah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.