Kauan is a post-rock band from Chelyabinsk, Russia formed in 2005. The band's name stems from the Finnish language, and many of the band's lyrics are in Finnish.

Kauan was formed by Anton Belov (formerly of Helengard and Inea) in February 2005. At the beginning, their sound was a blend of folk metal,[4] black metal[4] and doom metal. In September 2006, Lyubov Mushnikova joined the band on violin. Guitarist Alexander Borovikh joined prior to the recording of their debut album, Lumikuuro, released 4 August 2007 by BadMoodMan Music. Borovikh left the band prior to the recording of their second album, Tietäjän Laulu, which was released by BadMoodMan Music on 30 November 2008. The album incorporated ambient and post-rock elements.

Kauan released their third album, Aava Tuulen Maa, on 18 November 2009 on Firebox Records/BadMoodMan Music. By that point, the band's genre had evolved to a melancholic mixture of atmospheric neofolk and post-rock. In 2010, Belov and his wife, vocalist Alina "Witch_A" Belova (formerly of Inferno and Semargl), released a full-length album on Firebox Records with his other project Helengard.

On 26 June 2011, Kauan's fourth album, Kuu.., was released by Avantgarde Music. The album featured a strong post-rock/ambient sound with elements of doom metal. Mushnikova left the band later in 2011.

Belov assembled a full band lineup in 2013, including Belova as keyboardist as well as bassist Alex Vynogradoff (also of Vin De Mia Trix), viola player Anatoly Gavrylov and drummer Anton Skrynnik (ex-Dimicandum). This lineup performed on Kauan's fifth album, Pirut, released by Blood Music on 15 December 2013. That same year, the band self-released a digital compilation box set, Private Release, reissued in part in 2014 as Muistumia by Blood Music.

The next Kauan studio album, Sorni Nai, was streamed on 15 October 2015, and released on 20 October.[9] A concept album consisting of one continuous song sectioned as seven tracks, it explored the mysterious 1959 Dyatlov Pass incident.

The band's seventh studio album, Kaiho, was released September 22, 2017. It featured vocals by Finnish folk singer Marja Mattlar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kauan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.