65 Million Years ago, Australia was connected to the Antarctica, otherly known as Gondwanaland. During the Breakup (the separating of the islands) the tribe of troopers that we call Glob, Dong, Plop, Bort, Zorg & Ogah were stuck on the Australian half during the separation, loosing all there friends and family.

They were the only cavemen they could find in Australia other then another tribe of a different species that always fought with them. So they went there separate ways from living with the Gondwanaland Rejects. After they found shelter during a cold night they were caved in during a storm and became frozen in glaciers for millions of years.

Until the year 2009 recently they were discovered by Archeologists deep underground in the South Australian Desert. We know nothing about the discovery as the Archeologists were eaten alive soon after they reported there finding. We do know they have been living amongst us as Illegal Aliens, trying to blend in. learning about us from a portable television they stole from the Archeologists.

This last.fm page is my research on the band and from everything they do and there so called music. I have no idea why but they seem to take a liking to me and have no attempted to kill or eat me, yet... Maybe it's because i bait them and bring them gifts... this is what I have found from the underground. 

THE BAND:

DONG woke up born on a raft
in the middle of an active volcano,
Plop saved his life by pulling him up onto his rock
near by the edge of the volcano to get away from hot ouchie stuff.

PLOP was born out of his mothers Bum Bum
which gave him his facial looks of a piece of poo,
he smells like poo, he acts like poo,
the only thing he really talks about is poo,
he is how ever the most attractive one out of the group.

ZORG is an alien, we think.. but we love him.
sometimes he sleeps in swamps and eats worms.
we found him one day fighting a mammoth with a
piece of tree and we helped him shoo it away.

OGAH is known to be a rapist,
but it's not fully proven yet. he doesn't say much
he just stares at people with his head on an angle.

BORT always likes to roll things up
and put them on the fire and try to smoke it.
other then that, he just likes to bang his hammer all day

here by leaving you with kCaveMen

THE MUSIC: (Out of Character)
kCaveMen are a South Australian Shock Rock / Death Metal band
formed in 2009 by Horrorcore Rapper KidCrusher in collab with
Todd Hansen (Drummer from The Berzerker & Headkase).

Originally formed in 2006 without a studio release,
this long awaited band took three years to defrost
and find all its members and record there debut studio album
Gondwanaland set to release independently online and at shows.
KcaveMen consists upon six members which remain anonymous,
wearing custom latex masks designed by filth mirror.

The stage presence is themed like a full blown caveman era
with tribal drum solos and barely speaking english.
Come watch and see how man makes music!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/kCaveMen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.