Keaton Henson (born 24 March 1988) is an English folk rock musician, visual artist and poet from London.

As a musician Henson usually sings and plays guitar. Henson suffers from serious stage fright and, as a result, he rarely plays concerts. His art show "Hithermost" took place at the Pertwee, Anderson & Gold gallery in London in January 2013 and "sold quickly". He has also released a wordless graphic novel called "Gloaming", published by Pocko, which is "essentially a field guide to a spirit world beyond our reality".

Keaton Henson was born in 1988 in London, England. He is the son of actor Nicky Henson and ballet dancer Marguerite Porter.

Originally Henson was an illustrator. He designed the artwork for various albums including Dananananaykroyd's Hey Everyone! and Enter Shikari's Take to the Skies. Henson recorded songs in his apartment in London, initially purely for his own consumption. He gave a recording of one of the songs as a gift for his best friend, and was encouraged to put music online. In November 2010 his debut album Dear was released on Motive Sounds Recordings, in a limited edition which he made by hand himself. In 2011 he released a single, "Metaphors", on Porchlight Records. He also recorded "Don't Be Afraid" for the Tormented soundtrack.

Henson's breakthrough came when Zane Lowe played "You Don't Know How Lucky You Are" on BBC Radio 1 for the first time on Wednesday 7 September 2011, saying: "That piece of music right there is one of the most special pieces of music I've heard in a very very long time". The play received a rapturous reaction from listeners.

Henson formed his own Oak Ten Records and officially re-released his debut album Dear in 2012. It went on to sell over 7,000 copies and gained a cult following. The album was well critically acclaimed: the BBC said "Keaton Henson isn't a show-off, but with talent like this, he has every right to be", and on Metacritic the album received a score of 70 out of 100. The album, which never charted, spawned three singles – "Charon", "Small Hands" and "You Don't Know How Lucky You Are" – all of which were accompanied by music videos. The video for "Charon" was shortlisted for a UK MVA award in Best Budget Indie/Rock Category. "Small Hands" won Best Music Video at Rushes Soho Shorts 2012.

Henson released The Lucky EP in July 2012.

Henson's music ("Charon", "Corpse Roads", "To Your Health", "10AM Gare du Nord", "You") has been featured in the BBC Three zombie drama In the Flesh.

In November 2012, Henson designed a t-shirt for the Yellow Bird Project to raise money for the Teenage Cancer Trust.

"Keaton Henson spends his time alone, writing songs and sometimes drawing, he doesn't like to talk about himself."


Visit www.keatonhenson.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Keaton+Henson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.