There are 2 artists with the name Keeno:
1) A Drum and Bass producer currently residing in Manchester, UK.

2) A Japanese vocaloid producer.
 
1) At only 19 years’ old and with releases on both Hospital Records and Med School Music, Keeno presents his debut EP “Nocturne”. Having been named in Knowledge Magazine’s top 20 producers to watch out for in 2013 and with support from the likes of London Elektricity, S.P.Y, Camo & Krooked, BCee and many more, he’s moving up in the scene fast. The UK-based producer is rapidly becoming synonymous for his ability to add orchestral and cinematic elements to Drum & Bass on a grand scale whilst retaining a strong dancefloor impact. Keeno’s remixes are infamous in the scene. Most notably his remix of “Get Out” by Casey Abrams rose to No.1 in the Estonian and Lithuanian charts and is going down a storm on YouTube. And along with long-term collaborator Whiney, another young star, together they have been turning heads with their remix of S.P.Y’s iconic “By Your Side” – the remix had the whole scene begging for a release.
Out now on Med School,“Nocturne” is 6 track EP which features vocalist Louisa Bass and co-producer Whiney, both of whom appeared with Keeno on “No More” which dropped on Hospital Records “Sick Music 3″ compilation album back in November 2012. Whiney also co-produced the popular “Isokime” with Keeno from“New Blood 013″ earlier this year. 

2) Keeno was first known through his work entitled crack which succeeded in occupying the first position at Weekly Vocaloid Ranking #161. He is also known for his work which always uses Miku Append Dark. He commonly sang sad and emotional songs, with a large addition of using slow rock element as an influence. His flawless talent and competent music skill has garnered him a lot of fans among the Vocaloid community, with his songs titled "glow" has managed to earned a spot as a chosen track to appear on a few Vocaloid concerts already. He has released quite a few number of albums, with the latest being Before Light that was released in 16/9/2015.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/keeno">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.