Keith Murray (born September 13, 1974, Central Islip, New York) is a rapper and a member of the rap trio Def Squad, which includes fellow rappers Redman and Erick Sermon.

Murray was introduced to Erick Sermon of EPMD by K-Solo. Sermon would feature Murray on his album No Pressure on the Single "Hostile". Murray quickly established himself as one of the most creative lyricists in the industry with his first album The Most Beautifullest Thing in This World, released in 1994 on Jive Records. The title track from this album remains Murray's biggest solo hit. This album was given 4 mics by The Source.

Murray's second album Enigma was released in 1996 on Jive. It received similar ratings from critics, but it was not quite as commercially successful as the previous album. In 1998, The Def Squad covered "Rapper's Delight" by the Sugarhill Gang. They would later release their own album,El Niño (album). Murray's third album It's a Beautiful Thing was released in 1999 while he was in prison. Like the previous album, it received relatively good reviews, but it showed yet another drop in sales. Murray also appeared on the song "Home Alone" by R. Kelly. In 2001, Murray's return to the music industry was announced with a memorable verse on "Fatty Girl." This song was featured on The Good Life, a compilation of songs for Fubu.

While he was in prison, Murray began writing for his next solo album. Upon his release, he would leave Jive and sign with Def Jam. He's Keith Murray was released in 2003. Murray chose this title because the album represents him, but many fans saw it as an obvious attempt at crossover success because of singles like "Candy Bar" featuring Patti Austin. The album also featured the single "Yeah, Yeah U Know It." This song has guest appearances from fellow Def Squad members Redman and Erick Sermon. Murray dedicated "Christina" to his sister. That same year, Murray was featured on the video game Def Jam Vendetta.

In 2004,he was featured in mantis's song Day By Day which was about street life and children. It was very emotional and touching in which means we should change the world.

Keith Murray's vocals / crowd hyping skills appear on the songs; "Elektrobank" by the Chemical Brothers from their album "Dig You Own Hole" and also is on Redman and Method Mans album "Black Out 2".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Keith+Murray">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.