Keith Sweat (born in Harlem New York on July 22, 1961)  is a r&b / soul american singer / songwriter, record producer, radio personality and innovator of the "New Jack".
Keith began his musical career in 1975 as a member of a Harlem group called "Jamilah"... 
Thanks to Jamilah, Sweat can hone his craft as lead singer performing at a regional level in the tripartite New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. 
The group was initially formed by Larry Peoples (bassist), Michael Samuels (guitarist)  and Walter Bradley (drummer). Other members of the group joined later, including Peter DaCosta (voices), Joseph McGeachy (saxophone), Dwight Banks (trumpet), and Kenneth Varner (keyboards)...
After leaving the group in 1984 to join a solo career, Keith sings in the various nightclubs around the city of New York and takes the opportunity to work for the independent label, "Stadium Records". 
Keith only records a song for this label which is called "My Mind Is Made Up", their 3rd best achievement ever, but for the absolute best, Sweat is credited as co-composer and co-producer of "You Are song the One For Me", the last ever recording by the "GQ" group. 
One of the group origin members was Keith's uncle, Keith "Sabu" Crier...
Later in 1987, Keith Sweat is discovered by Vincent Davis, who offered him a contract with his label - Vintertainment Records -  opened in 1983 on the foundation of the first hip-hop and otherwise best known for the song's release "Pee Wee Dance" by Joeski Love in 1985. 
Vintertainment was distributed by Elektra Records from 1985 until 1990, date on which the label stops to operate and decide to purchase outright the Keith contract that may affect from now for Elektra . 
In 1987, November 25, Sweat publishes his first solo album "Make It Last Forever", of which are sold right away 3 million copies. The best hit album is the song that opens the "New Jack" title "I Want Her" (# 1 R & B, # 5 Pop), also nominated for the Soul Train 1989 as Best Song R & B / Urban Contemporary of the year, while the song that gives the title track becomes #2 on R & B charts. Sweat continues with success in the charts with his 2nd album called "I'll Give All My Love To You" (1990), which peaked at #6 on the Billboard Top 200 . The singles released in this period also include "(There You Go) Tellin' Me No Again" (from the "New Jack City" movie). Then Keith publishes its 3rd album "Keep It Comin'" in 1991, which debuted in the Best Albums Top 20. This album includes songs like "Why Me Baby" (feat. LL Cool J) and "Keep It Comin'". Then Sweat moves from New York to Atlanta, where he founded the label "Kaia Records" that would characterize later the group "Silk" and the R & B singer "Kut Klose".

Sweat released his 4th album "Get Up On It" in the summer of 1994 and its homonymous "Keith Sweat", the 5th, in 1996. Both albums reached the Top 20 of the American Billboard. The single co-produced and co-written with Eric McCain titled "Twisted" is positioned #2 and "Nobody" #3 of the Hot 100, listed as the most successful songs of Keith Sweat ever. The song "Just A Touch" with Traci Hale in choirs, officially earns a permanent place in the radio play-list. The song was a cover of a well-known piece of a few years before by  "Slave" titled "Just A Touch Of Love". The 6th Keith's album, "Still In The Game", was released in 1998, finishing #6 in the Billboard 200 and #2 in the R & B / Hip-Hop Albums. They are part of this record the songs "Come And Get With Me" (feat. Snoop Dogg) - #12 Hot 100 - and "I'm Not Ready" - #16. The success of Sweat in the official rankings began decreasing in 2000, when he released the album "Did not See Me Coming". In fact none of its singles reaches a position in the top 40, but only moderate success in the R & B / Hip-Hop Singles charts.

The August 13, 2002, Keith Sweat released his 8th album "Rebirth". The single "One On One" came in at #75 in the Billboard Hot 100 and #44 of the R & B Singles.
His 2008 album "Just Me" gets along a little better with his first single entitled "Love U Better" (feat. Keyshia Cole), played for about one full year before its release to radio "Urban" American radio stations.
Keith Sweat is now under contract with "Kedar Records" with whom he has released his 10th album titled "Ridin' Solo" in 2010, June 22. The main title from the album ("Test Drive") see the participation of R&B singer JOE. Also since 2007 Sweat participates as a guest of a nationally syndicated radio show based on the format "Quiet Storm" (R & B format of successful Slow-Jams). The "Keith Sweat Hotel" (known rather as "The Keith Sweat Quite Storm" on the FM radio "WBLS" of New York City) is under the aegis of the "Premiere Radio Networks".

In 1992, Sweat had also discovered the group SILK and given a boost to their debut album, "Lose Control", conquering the place #7 on the Billboard Best 200 Albums chart . The May 1st, 1993, "Freak Me" - one of the most successful singles - becomes #1 of the Top 100 Billboard. In the same year Keith had also discovered the group of Atlanta KUT KLOSE, which produces the debut album "Surrender", from which the most successful extract entitled "I Like" reached the position #8 in the R & B / Hip-Hop Singles chart .
In the Autumn 1997, Sweat discovers and launches the group OL' SKOOL with their first namesake album, participating in the song "Am I Dreaming" together with "EXCAPE" group.

Keith Sweat also participated in the born of the group "L.S.G." along with GERALD LEVERT and JOHNNY GILL with their first album from the group name "Levert.Sweat.Gill" (L.S.G. - to be precise). It belongs to the album the song "My Body" that became a hit. Also the album is certified double platinum and reached #4 on the Billboard Top 200. A second album precedes unfortunately the disappearance of one of the members, Gerald Levert.

Sweat also won the American Music Awards in 1997 for the Best Male Artist R & B / Soul.

For the time being the last album in chronological order of Keith Sweat is called " 'Til The Morning", released in 2011 and the 11th.

Keith is still regularly performing concerts all around the world. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Keith+Sweat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.