kelda is a talented band with a genius for bittersweet love songs . . . Take the opportunity to see this quintet in an intimate club and you may well end up with an I saw them back when story to tell. ~ Sarah Torribio-Bond/Music Connection Magazine.

"Music is in my blood. Growing up listening to musical tales of her family: from the experimental jazz of her father and her uncle, Ornette Coleman, to her mother, a singer on broadway, to her grandfather, a nightclub pianist all his life . . . kelda could not help but set out to create a musical legend all her own. Before the age of 18, kelda had moved all over the country, living in six states and attending 11 schools. The only constants in her life were God, her mother and her piano. And so at the age of 11 her musical transformation began to take its course when she could not help but express herself through song. As she has stated, "the journey of songwriting has made all the difference."

kelda's music is currently being played on college and online radio internationally. The music has also been licensed for the CBS Jerry Bruckheimer hit show Cold Case, the WB show High School Reunion, MTV programming (including the hit reality series The Real World, Road Rules, and Trippin) as well as the indie film The Shooter. She was selected as one of the Hot 100 Unsigned Artists by Music Connection in 2003 and 2004. And in 2005, she received a keyboard endorsement from Kurzweil. kelda was also chosen, as one of twelve, to participate in the ASCAP Lester Sills Songwriting Workshop.

kelda is currently playing all over Los Angeles and across the United States at clubs and coffeehouses, ranging from The Knitting Factory in LA to the Bitter End in NY. She has also toured through Europe and opened for artists such as Kanye West, Tyler Hilton and Mae. kelda released her debut EP in 2002 and in January of 2004 she released her second EP, Carried Away, produced by Geza X. Her first full-length album, Detour, is available in stores nationwide and is distributed by ADA (Warner Music Groups independent arm). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kelda">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.