There are 2 artists with the name Kelevra

1. DJ from the UK

Remix master Paul Kelevra is putting his name at the forefront of the scene, trading in his backstage status for the full on limelight. The Midlands, UK producer/DJ has already remixed for dozens tracks of dance music artists on all sides of the globe.

Rising through the vinyl ranks of the dance scene of the late '90s, Kelevra played clubs on both sides of the Atlantic for more than a decade. Keeping a fun but dirty vibe to his sets, the artist channeled his creativity on the decks into a slew of remix projects for esteemed artists including DJ Dan, Jamie Fanatic, Klaus Hill, Micky Slim, Miles Dyson, D.O.N.S, MC Flipside & Hatiras to name a few. Original releases on Wearhouse Music, So Sweet, Fidget Kingdom, Potty Mouth, PBR & Many more have really brought him to the top of the scene over the last 12 months.

2008 saw Kelevra slide into the Aussie Top 50 dance charts just under Calvin Harris with his remix of Audio Slingers' "Radio Noise" on Kingdome Kome. He looks to continue the creative momentum in 2009 on the push of a collaborative label with D.O.N.S. Ollie Geodicke called Fidget Kingdom. "Jak Muzik" featuring Whiskey Pete marks Kelevra's first release on Fidget Kingdom with remixes from Micky Slim, Klaus Hill Jaimie Fanatic & Aniki. The original has been riding high in the Beatport chart for a good few weeks now with top 10 action, not bad for the first release!

When Kelevra is not instigating mischief behind the decks, he is working hard on his own UK-based imprint KrunK, showcasing fresh hip house, fidget and electro tracks by himself and artists across the dance music community. Between crafting and managing, Kelevra's own work has also garnered support from the likes of Crookers, Kissy, Judge Jules, Tongy and Armand Van Helden.

"I like to think I just bring full on party tunes that I'd like to hear if I was out clubbing-stuff that makes ya want to dance!" Kelevra says.... Bring it on, we say!


2. Metal/Progressive/Hardcore act out of Long Island New York

Check them out here
www.myspace.com/kelevrany
www.facebook.com/kelevrany
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kelevra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.