There are two popular artists named Kelly Jones.

1) The male Kelly Jones (born 3 June 1974) is a Welsh musician, lyricist, and lead singer of the band Stereophonics.

He lived in the former pit village of Cwmaman, near Aberdare, where he became friends with neighbours, Stuart Cable (former drummer of the Stereophonics),and Richard Jones (bass guitarist and no relation). Eventually the trio formed a covers band together which went by the name Tragic Love Company. 

A perceptive lyricist, Kelly considered being a scriptwriter before being a musician. At this time, the BBC showed an interest in some of his early work but as the band progressed from a covers band to writing their original material, Kelly decided to use his narrative side more towards writing lyrics.

In 1997 the band (now renamed to Stereophonics) released their debut album Word Gets Around which documents much of his early life including his account of his teen years on a market stall wryly documented in More Life In A Tramps Vest.

After their second album (Performance & Cocktails) and prior to release of 2001's Just Enough Education to Perform, Kelly Jones toured the UK on his own in late 2000 previewing the new material and playing classic tracks. This tour was extremely well received though never repeated until 2007.

As of March 2007, Kelly has released his first solo album, Only The Names Have Been Changed, and is about to embark on a short solo tour of the UK once again. However this does not signal the end of the Stereophonics who are expected to release their 6th album later in the year.

2) The female Kelly Jones came on the music scene recently with her debut album "SheBANG!" and is currently based in Nashville, TN. In 2016, she collaborated with Teddy Thompson to release the album  Little Windows, which was followed up by the duo with an accompanying tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kelly+Jones">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.