1. yugoslavian experimental/industrial project from the mid-80s.
2. slovenian thrash metal band formed 2007.
3. swedish electropop group from 2010;

1.
Yugoslavian project of Slovenian ex Laibach's member, underground movie maker Andrej Lupinc who is active again in Laibach as a session musician. One known cassette release named "Sizzling", which is sometimes named "Keller IV". Experimental, industrial with the elements of minimal electronics.

2. Keller (Slovenia)
Keller is a Slovenian thrash metal band with a similar sound to Kreator and Dark Angel, formed in 2007 by drummer Matjaz and guitarist Etien. They recruited Vasja on bass, Martin on vocals and Peter as a second guitarist.
The band is named Keller after the members saw the word on a sign in the 200 year old house where they practice. It is a German word meaning 'basement'.
Keller recorded a four track demo entitled "Awake The Forgotten" in August 2008 which was well received by fans and the media. The first 100 copies sold out in less than two months so the band made another 100 which also sold out.
After the demo the band let Peter go and replaced him with Edi, who plays in another local band called Fosgen. Edi eventually left due to time constraints but a replacement was found in Marko who was already in a thrash band called Leather (in which two members of Keller still play).
In 2009 Keller performed at such festivals as Metalcamp, Paranoid open Air and Metal Kramp. They are currently recording their debut album, Spreading Evil, which should be available by the end of the year through NHR Records.

3. Keller (Sweden)
Keller is an electronic pop band from Stockholm, Sweden. Members Sara Stode, Erik Hedin & Andreas Wolmer construct epic, buzzy, often melancholic soundscapes complemented by smooth vocals and strong pop melodies. The band was formed in 2010 by Erik Hedin & Andreas Wolmer who short afterwards were joined by vocalist Sara Stode. 

Album releases:

Rifle Island EP - December 2010
Caramel Ammo EP - April 2011

Members:
Andreas Wolmer - Keyboards, assorted instruments
Sara Stode - Vocals
Erik Hedin - Keyboards, assorted instruments <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Keller">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.