Kelli-Leigh was born in south London on May 3rd 1985. With music running strong in the family and her mother being a singer, songwriter and artist, Kelli-Leigh was always encouraged from a young age to be creative. From attending the BRIT school and studying & performing alongside some of today’s biggest selling artists Kelli-Leigh is on track to becoming the artist she is destined to be.

Along with her solo ventures, Kelli-Leigh is one half of the creative team KI, along with London-based musician and DJ, Butcherd Beats (also known as Izzy B). Back in 2006 the pair independently released a début album entitled Before We Breathe, which sold well, with releases being available through iTunes and CD Baby. KI embarked on countless mini tours in Croatia for the 'Hemingway Bar' performing in Split, Zagreb, Opatjia, Riejka, Brist & Podgora, as well as many exclusive venues and festivals in the UK.Some of their tracks are also featured on various compilation albums and can be frequently heard in numerous UK high street stores as well as abroad. 

Kelli-Leigh has also worked as a vocalist as part of the music entertainment outfit High on Heels, touring internationally with it. More recently, she has been providing backing vocals for Adele on her tour dates around the US and Europe.

Now focussing on her solo pathway, Kelli-Leigh describes her music as a "fusion of rock, funk and soul", with her voice & lyrics being the main focus, also adding “I hope my music can touch people like so many tracks have moved and touched me”. She cites musical influences as wide-ranging as Ella Fitzgerald to Skin of Skunk Anansie fame. 

In early 2012, Kelli-Leigh came out with her début solo release, I Am Here - EP, containing six original songs.

Full-length tracks from her début are available to preview on her official website: http://www.kellileigh.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kelli-Leigh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.