The Noble Qur'an - An-Nisa 4:29

...And do not kill yourselves (nor kill one another).
Surely, Allah is Most Merciful to you. 

Throughout the world, the arrogant few use whatever powers they can muster to force their opinions into the lives of others. Not one nation is immune to their abuses. As their power grows, so in turn does their arrogance until they consider themselves worthy of making the judgement over the life and death of their unfortunate subjects.

Western politicians buy time on public television to tell us why their opponents can never be trusted, breeding a cynical and yet somehow still manipulated population. Believing themselves all but immune to the altered truths of these social climbers, a nation's hypnotised sheep blindly follow instructions to vote for political parties identified by coloured symbols on a page. Never realising that democracy means rule by the people and that the rule by a rarely changing elite that promotes family dynasties is more correctly known as an oligarchy.

Dictatorial regimes sit like ancient kings upon their gilded thrones enjoying absolute rule over their brutalised and frightened populations. Oppressed masses seek solace in ancient stories of good and evil spouted from the mouths of those who seek to obtain moral and spiritual control over the lives of others. All the while these manipulators of truth point, at those that they abhor, the accusatory finger of blame.

Renegades and warlords roam the nations of the world bringing death and destruction. Their target? That which is different to themselves. Not out of bravery, not out of morality, not even out of necessity. Only out of fear. Their fear is so deep and all encompassing that their happiness depends upon the unhappiness of others. 

This is the world in which the Keltic Jihad exists.

It is the struggle for individuality, the need for self determination and the knowledge of the fruits of co-operation that drives those who would see the race evolve and take its place among the stars. To them, the future is an unwritten story penned by the actions of the many against the excesses of the few. These people understand that we are just a single race, lost in the blackness of space and billions of miles from those who could teach us that we are not alone.

It is to them that the Keltic Jihad calls.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Keltic+Jihad">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.