Hailing from Croydon, South London, and bringing neo-soul into the future, Kemi Ade delivers a melting pot of sounds; an effortless infusion of alternative neo-soul, jazz, hip-hop and folk.
From celebrations of love to mixed feelings and healing, it is clear that Kemi’s song-writing is an honest reflection of herself and where she is in her environment. There is a shared sense of liberation as her thoughts and feelings are emptied out, laid bare and served up over luxuriant melodies.
Kemi’s music takes you on a journey; one which seemingly ends too quickly and yet continues to unfold new and relatable truths with each listen. Inflections of her inspirations, genre-creators Jill Scott, Musiq Soulchild and Erykah Badu, are evident, yet Kemi is able to make every offering completely her own.
Her debut single ‘Then’, produced by Jimmy Logic and remixed by KEI-LI of Darker Than Wax, received overwhelming support and glowing reviews from several online publications and radio stations including Complex, Infinit, Artistic Manifesto, Province, Fame Magazine, Nang, Reprezent and First Ear. Her first EP ‘The Coffee Shop’ is a glimpse into love and life in Kemi’s world. From ‘The Meet Cute’ to ‘Nostalgia’ it is impossible not to find yourself wrapped up in the warmth of her vocals and immersed in the depths of the story – a story she welcomes you into with the hopes that you will find yourself.
She has followed this by imprinting her unique twist onto performances on Reload Sessions and Ont’ Sofa, where your favourite songs are transformed by rich, velvety tones and are given a new lease of life. Enchanting audiences with live performances supporting folk singer Denai Moore, as a headline act for the first Unmasked Women exhibition and gaining plaudits for her performances at the world-renowned Ronnie Scott’s Jazz Club. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kemi+Ade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.