Everything started about 6 years ago around the swamps of the Guérande peninsula (Brittany)... First made up with HugKerwor (Kvorhüug) on lead guitar and BBD (Ehrryk) on drums, the first musical project was created when Örm came in as a singer and the group started practicing and covering different bands songs. Örm quickly jumped to rhythm guitar and Fañch joined the ranks with his bass. What used to be a simple musical project therefore became a full band.

We baptized it Kerwor (year 2000), and we abandoned the covers to concentrate ourselves on composing our own material. The name Kerwor was finally replaced by actual KerIfern, a name of breton origin. The band is henceforth grouped together in the same city, which allows faster projects like compositions, recordings, concerts etc...

In order to complete the line up, Myrkkel join us, as a singer, on the begining of the year 2005.

Touring is for us the best way to be promote the band ; it is actually the reason why we are rather active in this field, even though we have to organize them ourselves.

On the promotion aspect, we released this year (March) a 4-tracks MCD which was fully realized by our own hands from recording to production.

This demo stresses our will to get known in France or abroad and therefore to find a record label which corresponds on one thand to our identity and on the other hand to our musical ambition (recording an album next winter, touring France and other countries, spreading metal on our way).

We already got several feedbacks from the promo CDs we sent (see Media/Press section).

We are currently developing a musical identity close to Celts Gallic people and if a definition must be stuck to us, we usually hear ourselves called a Gallic thrash/black metal band with some folky stuff in it. Please make your own opinon and let us know about your interest !

Furry hails from all of us,

KerIferN  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kerifern">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.