Kerli Kõiv (born February 7, 1987), known simply as Kerli, is an Elva, Estonian singer-songwriter. In 2002, she began competing in numerous singing competitions and winning most of them. She later moved to the United States where she was signed to Island Records by L.A. Reid. There, she worked with David Maurice on numerous songs, three of which were released on her EP Kerli. Her debut studio album Love Is Dead was released in 2008.

In 2010, she appeared on the album Almost Alice with the song Tea Party and Strange, the latter being a duet with Tokio Hotel. 

In March, 2013 her second EP and third major release overall, Utopia, was released in digital form. The album peaked at #196 on the Billboard Top 200, #7 on U.S. Billboard Heatseekers Albums and #23 on the Itunes US chart. Two of the songs written by Kerli for this album - Skyscraper and I Feel Immortal have been instead recorded by artists Demi Lovato and Tarja, respectively. Kerli's version of the song Immortal was featured on another Tim Burton soundtrack, Frankenweenie Unleashed! in 2012.

Kerli's sister, Eliisa Kõiv, is also a musician, as is now  her ex -best friend Vespertine.

In December 2015, Kerli announced a release of her new independent album planned for September 2016. Hew new single & CD pre-order will be available through the crowdfunding website Pledgemusic.com. There is no information about the new album name yet.

Meanwhile her Spotify profile's Introduction before release of her Shadow Works describes Kerli as following :
" Biography

Avant-Garde, mystical and magical are just some of the ways her fans describe KERLI’s music. As Estonia’s most successful music export, this unique artist has defied genre and created a musical world all her own; an eclectic style , drawing on a wide range of influences such as electronic, pop, goth, and experimental.

Her debut album, "Love Is Dead", in 2008 which charted on the Billboard 200. The lead single, "Walking on Air," was featured as the iTunes single of the week where it was downloaded over 500,000 times, a record at that time.

​

Her 2nd album Utopia also charted on Billboard 200. Singles "Army of Love", Zero Gravity", and "The Lucky Ones" entered the top 10 Billboard Hot Dance, two of them peaking at number 1. A song co-written by KERLI for Utopia, "Skyscraper" was recorded by Demi Lovato  and become one of Demi’s biggest hits.

​

In 2016, she released 3 independent singles, while teaming up with the government of Estonia to art direct a tourism campaign designed to promote the otherworldly nature of her country.

​

Spending most of her creative time in the deep forests of Estonia, KERLI’s evolution as an artist has paralleled her curiosity as a human, exploring the relationship between nature, mysticism and technology. All of which will be part of her most diverse and eclectic body of work on an upcoming album, titled ‘Shadow Works’, set to release in Feb 2019 on MrSuicideSheep's imprint Seeking Blue" 
source: https://open.spotify.com/artist/4IFgewC2urR62Fwt7uAU03/about <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kerli">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.