Kero Kero Bonito is a British band from London, England. The band consists of vocalist Sarah Bonito, producer Gus Lobban, and producer Jamie Bulled. Their name comes from the Japanese onomatopoeic words for frog croaks and a type of fish. 

Gus and Jamie grew up in the suburbs south of London and went to school together. In search for a new band member, they posted advertisements, including on MixB, an online bulletin board for Japanese expatriates, largely due to their interest in Japanese rap. They selected Sarah based on her background in art, and their interest in her bilingual ability. Although she had collaborated with a Japanese girl group previously, Sarah did not have a background in professional singing; instead, she was interested in collaborating with Gus and Jamie simply because she "wanted to try it".

The band released their debut mixtape Intro Bonito through Double Denim Records in August 2014. They wrote many of their songs featured on the mixtape using a Casio SA-45 mini-keyboard. The band also contributed "Flamingo" to Ryan Hemsworth's compilation EP shh#ffb6c1. In September 2014, Kero Kero Bonito released Bonito Recycling, a compilation of Intro Bonito remixes by artists including Danny L Harle and Spazzkid. 

On October 21, 2016, their official debut album Bonito Generation was released through Double Denim Records. The album featured previous singles such as "Picture This" released in March 2015, "Lipslap" released in February 2016 and "Break" released in June 2016. 

On February 12, 2018, the band released their single Only Acting which featured a more darker, rock-influenced style compared to their previous releases. On February 20, 2018, the band released their EP, TOTEP. The EP included the aforementioned single Only Acting, and other songs following the rock-influenced style. On May 8, 2018, the band released the single Time Today, and announced their second studio album, Time 'n' Place, which was released on October 1, 2018 The album was inspired by radical changes in the band's personal lives and featured a similar sound to TOTEP.

On July 8, 2019, the band uploaded "KKB Life" to their YouTube channel, a vlog video recorded during the Time 'n' Place era, announcing that a new era is starting. They later released the single When the Fires Come in September 2019 and their EP Civilisation I later that month. The EP and lead single featured an electronic style, similar to the band's production in their earlier work. In 2020, the band wrote and performed It's Bugsnax!, the theme song for the video game Bugsnax, which was featured in its announcement trailer. The members of the band recorded their parts of the song remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

On April 21, 2021, Kero Kero Bonito published their EP Civilisation II, a sequel to their previous EP Civilisation I, after releasing the single The Princess and the Clock earlier on February 24, 2021. This EP continued the electronic style the band established in the first EP. On September 10, 2021, the band published a compilation, Civilisation, combining EPs Civilisation I and Civilisation II, with the added track Gateway in between them. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kero+Kero+Bonito">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.