Biography

Durban's critically-acclaimed exponents of rock, KETAMINE, played its second-ever live performance to a full house at the renowned Metro Theatre in Chicago! This was the outcome of submitting songs to the Smashing Pumpkins Tribute, Act IV 2001 - a tribute held annually to give unsigned bands the opportunity to prove themselves in these hallowed surrounds. Just seven bands were chosen to perform at this event - with some 80 acts from around the world competing for these limited slots each year - and KETAMINE succeeded at first attempt! Within three weeks of its inception, the band had rehearsed the covers and original songs for the tour, re-recorded "Disarm", their cover version for the tribute album, as well as their first original track, "Stay", and lodged themselves firmly in the South African media. So well was KETAMINE received by the American audience and organisers alike, that when a further three songs were submitted for Tribute 2002, not only was the band re-elected to play, but was furthermore honoured with headline act status. In addition to regularly gigging around the South African club circuit, KETAMINE has featured high on the rosters of Rock Concert 2, Woodstock IV and Flux, plus main-staged at the Splashy Fen Music Festival for three years in succession, headlining the opening night in 2004.

During their brief sojourns in Chicago, KETAMINE members were lauded and approached by that city's high-profile recording engineer and producer Björn Thorsrud - of Smashing Pumpkins and ZWAN fame - amongst many others for whom his skills have helped earn Billboard USA chart hits. Having kept in close contact since their meetings in 2001 and 2002, Thorsrud worked with the band on the pre-production of their material. This ongoing correspondence regarding the musical direction of KETAMINE peaked in December of 2003, with Mr Thorsrud traveling to Durban, South Africa, to record a 5-track demo. Mixed and mastered by Manny A. Sanchez, who also boasts a modest artist biography, "A Perfect World" is the result of the continuing relationship developed between KETAMINE and Björn Thorsrud.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ketamine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.