Kevin 'K.C.' Cossom (born September 2, 1984) is an American singer, Grammy-nominated songwriter, producer and arranger. Born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and raised in Orlando, Florida, Cossom has written for a variety of artists including Keri Hilson -- Knock You Down featuring Kanye West and Ne-Yo and Mary J. Blige (Tonight). He is signed to Grammy Award-winning producer Danja's label, N.A.R.S./Jive. 

Presently, Cossom is in studio preparing for the release of his debut album. The lead single, Baby I Like It, features P. Diddy and Fabolous.

Cossom grew up in Orlando, Florida, an only child to a single mother - an educator and founder of a performing arts academy. She encouraged him to perform his first solo at the age of three.  While his exposure to secular music was limited, Cossom was able to hone his skills singing in his gospel church choir. At six, he joined his first group, a gospel act assembled by his mother and at 14, formed a short-lived singing group with friends. Three years later, he began to build a reputation as a songwriter and singer with the help of his manager, Rashad Tyler.

In 2004, after a meeting with 50 Cent at his Connecticut mansion, Cossom was asked to write and record a hook for a song that G-Unit Records member Lloyd Banks was working on. This resulted in Karma – a hit single on Banks’ debut album, The Hunger for More. Though Cossom was replaced by Avant on the video and radio versions of the single, through this encounter, he received his first songwriting credit. 

After returning home, Cossom met Orlando-based hip-hop production duo, The Runners, through a mutual DJ friend. Within a year, they asked Cossom to assist with a song they were producing for Young Jeezy's album, The Inspiration: Thug Motivation 102. He went on to pen the hook for Jeezy’s hit single Go Getta featuring R. Kelly which ultimately led to Cossom securing a publishing deal with Warner/Chappell Music. Through this deal, Cossom was introduced to Grammy Award-winning producer, Danja, to write for a girl group that he was producing for. The two developed a chemistry that led to Cossom being the first artist signed to the producer's N.A.R.S. record label.

Since joining forces with Danja, Cossom has gone on to lend vocals to and write and arrange for several artists throughout the music industry and most recently, has written material for Justin Bieber. 

In November 2009, Cossom released Hook vs. Bridge, an extended EP with production from Danja and The Runners (among others) and features from artists including Drake, Rick Ross and Pusha T.

In March 2011, Cossom released his mixtape, By Any Means, where he teams up once again with Danja. The Runners and Rick Ross adding features from J. Cole, Ace Hood and more.

 www.kevincossom.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kevin+Cossom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.