Kevin Winston Rudolf (born February 17, 1983) is an American rock and hip-hop singer-songwriter and record producer. Rudolf is currently signed to Cash Money Records/Universal Republic. Born in New York City, he is currently based out of Miami, Florida. Rudolf’s debut single, “Let It Rock” (also known by "Let It Rock (Feat. Lil' Wayne)" and other names), was released in late-2008 and is known as his signature song, reaching #5 on the Billboard Hot 100 and being certified multi-platinum.

Rudolf has worked with many artists as either a producer, writer, or guitarist. Examples include Frazer McGonigle, A.K.A Rezza Boiii, Scott Rimell AKA Masta Nasty, Timbaland, the Black Eyed Peas, Lil’ Kim, LL Cool J, Justin Timberlake, Kevin Lyttle, Kanye West, Britney Spears, David Banner, T.I., Flo-Rida, The Neptunes, Rick Ross, Lil Wayne and Ludacris. Rezza Boii and Rudolf collaborated on a new track called "Wikky", available on free download in fall 2010.

Rudolf's first full album, 'In the City', was released on November 24, 2008. It includes the hit single “Let It Rock”, which prominently features Lil' Wayne, and sold well while receiving mixed critical reviews. “Let It Rock” was used as the main theme for the WWE’s '2009 Royal Rumble' pay-per-view event as well as the theme for the 2009 'NBA All-Star Game'. That song additionally reached #5 on the Billboard U.S. Hot 100 chart, #5 on the U.K. Singles Chart, #3 on the Australian ARIA Chart, and #2 on the Canadian Hot 100. As well, “NYC”, featuring Nas, was featured on 'CSI: NY' on November 5, 2008 as well as opening up the 3rd episode of MTV’s 'The City' on January 5, 2009.

“Welcome to the World” is another popular single by Rudolf, peaking at #75 on the Hot Canadian Digital Singles chart. His aforementioned debut album debuted and peaked at #94 on the Billboard 200 and #74 on the Canadian Albums Chart. Released on June 15, 2010, Rudolf's next album, 'To the Sky', also has garnered a warm fan response. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kevin+Rudolf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.