There are several artists named Key:

1) Kim Ki-bum (Hangul: 김기범) (born September 23, 1991), better known by his stage name Key (Hangul: 키) , is a South Korean singer, dancer, rapper, songwriter, actor, fashion designer and television presenter. Born and raised in Daegu, South Korea, he later travelled to Seoul after a successful audition at the S.M. National Tour Audition Casting. In May 2008, Key debuted as a member of South Korean boy group SHINee, who later went on to become one of the best-selling artists in South Korea. 

As a singer, he has collaborated with various artists, and debuted in the sub-unit Toheart with Woohyun of Infinite. He made his debut as a soloist in November 2018 with the release of the digital single "Forever Yours", and his first studio album, Face, was released later that month. Key has also contributed to songwriting that have been released in Shinee's and Toheart's albums. As an actor, he was cast in multiple musicals, such as Bonnie & Clyde, Zorro, and Chess. He has since widened his field as an actor by taking part in several television drama roles, like Drinking Solo and The Guardians. In 2015, he collaborated with Bridge Shop House to design Shinee concert outfits. Due to the success of his works, Key was later appointed as fashion director of the group. In 2016, he became a model for the American fashion brand Jill Stuart.

2)  Key (Brazil) was a blues/psychedelic rock band from Rio de Janeiro active in 2013. The band name was inspired by the blues standard Key to the Highway. The group's classic formation consisted in Pedro Henrique Bravo (vocals), Carlos Eduardo Brito (bass), João Carlos Pinho (guitar) and Pedro Salles S (drums).

3) Key (USA) is a rapper/hip-hop artist from Atlanta. Also known as Key!

4) Key (Japan) is the artist name for the two below in Key Sounds Label, the sound creation team for the adventure game brand Key from 1999: Jun Maeda on composition and Shinji Orito on arrangement. They have composed mainly soundtracks and theme songs with vocal for the games.

5) KEY (Norway) is a Norwegian singer/songwriter, doing melodig and mellow acoustic songs in the style of John Martyn and Nick Drake.

6) Key (West Germany) were a late seventies Beatlesque soft/psych rock band whose sound deftly recalled the Toy Town psyche of a decade earlier.

7) Key (East Germany) was the synthesizer duo of Andreas Fregin and Frank Fehse, which existed since 1984 till 1990. Their separate entry: Key (GDR).

8)  Key (Finland) is a Finnish post-punk / neofolk duo formed by Rauta (Circle of Ouroborus) and Kaarna (Somnivore). Cocainacopia released a hand-made wooden box including three previously unreleased demo tapes in 2010, shortly followed by the full-length albums “Crown of Winter” (2010) and "Silver Moon Slumber" (2011), both released on Anima Arctica.

9) Key (Germany) were a jazz quintet featuring Markus Stockhausen who released one eponymous album in 1977.

10) Key (USA-2) are a heavy metal band from Melbourne, FL.

11) Shakeya "Key" Huggins released the album Thoughts From Key in 2001. For more info check out the alternative tag. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Key">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.