KHARIOT was formed in October 2008 in Perth, Western Australia, by Gavin Foo (Guitars/Vox), Shah Zaini (Guitars/Vox) and Michael Rule (Drums/Percussion) from their history of playing together and interests in similar music. After months of searching, the lineup was completed with the addition of bassist Darren Joy in May 2009.

Gavin & Michael, after having had experience onstage & in the studio ...with Noctis & The Alchemont (respectively) and 2 EP's under their belts, the 3 have combined forces to create a meld of metal undescribable in words, taking influences and ranging everywhere from dissonant black metal to technical death, thrash to doom & drone.

After years of furious writing, developing their live show, including Gavin & Mike winning the Best Guitarist & Drummer categories at the 2010 Western Front Metal Awards, and alot of rehearsing - the results culminated, resulting in their debut release - "Disymposium", in March 2011.
The band is already hard at work writing material for a new record, "Esoteric Prophecies", whilst promoting Disymposium.


-=KHARIOT 2011=-
After many months in the works, W.A. Prog/Extreme Metal group, Khariot, are proud to announce their first record - 'DISYMPOSIUM' - a musical journey through realms of multiple layers; in lyrical, structural and conceptual styles.

The debut album consists of 11 tracks of dissonant melodies, obscure twin harmonies and counterpoint, thrashing solos, crushing technical riffs, hypnotic basslines, dual diabolical screams & gutturals; and chaotic drumming. The album was recorded at Southern Darkness Recordings from July - November 2010 and is available at www.khariot.bigcartel.com as a Limited Edition Digipack. Cover & artwork by Alex Eckman-Lawn.

Tracklisting -
i. Malediction Eclipse
ii. Upon Thy Mortal Throne
iii. Crimson Sanctorum
iv. The Hermit
v. Spectral Monarchy
vi. Dimension Shift
vii. Cacophony Of The Insane
viii. Cerebral Continuum
ix. Shade
x. ...Of Frail Entanglements
xi. 11:11

------------------------------------------

"Complex Death Metal with more than a few Progressive hints! Haunting and interesting!" - Spirit Of Metal Webzine

"Lovers of chaotic, highly technical, extreme progressive Death Metal, who eat Atheist and Cynic for breakfast, clean plates full of Nocturnus, Necrophagist and Ascendancy for lunch, shove down lots of Mastodon, Illogicist, Deathspell Omega, Gorguts and Ion Dissonance for dinner, for a balanced diet, and at night sneak some nibbles of Sadist and the like, will spend many fun hours with the debut of a West Australian band by the name of KHARIOT... The debut is a musical nightmare, in the positive sense, which challenges the listener with intricate arrangements and countless showpieces--without big-name studio production, without self-reduction. 11/15" - Chris P., MuzikReviews.de

"The antithesis to a symphonic record - One part chaos, the other beauty, this four piece puts on a very extreme show that blends progressive metal, technical metal, and black metal altogether for a special brew of homemade extreme progressive metal that may very well be one of the hardest things out there on the market these days. What one might expect from one track isn't going to get the same thing on the next... and it will still blow the mind. One might even consider Khariot's debut more talented than some of the more symphonic or melodic progressive metal bands out there because it takes a lot more skill to perform progressive metal fast and well, than to do it slow and well." - Colin McNamara, The Metal Forge

"Constantly impressing the listeners with the variety of techniques utilised, Disymposium is not overproduced or too glossy – no wanking, no gimmicks, just ear-splittingly great metal." - XPress Magazine, Perth

"Over their short lifespan, Khariot have set themselves the seemingly impossible task of welding deathly grind to prog metal. That’s one genre characterised by fleetingly abrasive bursts of anger, the other an assortment of rambling tracks that morph before your eyes over an aching passage of time. The result is, naturally, an infinitely complex warzone that has to be heard to really be believed..." - John Skibeat, MTUK Metal 'Zine

"...they set out to break moulds and defy convention, and the result is a unique blend of disharmony, disproportion and discomfort... In fact, Khariot could not have named this album better, 'Disymposium' is a brilliantly conceived name for this radical, unique and abstract venture." - Jez Devereux, Neverborn

"If the idea of a musical marriage of Deathspell Omega and Meshuggah doesn’t seem weird to you, you might find Khariot just the thing." 70/100 - Roel De Haan, Lords Of Metal

"Disymposium is anything but easy to digest. It is a rather baffling, confusing in its breaks and shifts, and its interchanging guitar parts from left and right speakers makes the whole chunk of music difficult to digest. And its damn well done. Guaranteed to be suitable for fans of Cynic and Atheist. A masterpiece in itself, everyone should listen to this death/prog work." - Madrebel, Planet Heavy Metal

"...the music is absolutely bizarre, scoping from Cynic-esque technical experimentation to Akercocke's twisted, eclectic blend of Black Metal, to Anaal Nathrakh's Blackened/Noise/Deathgrind fury, all at the one time." - Nish Raghavan



------------------------------------------

Khariot Logo Design by Brendan Ninness @ ForksOpenDoors
Khariot Sigil Design by Gavin Foo
Photography - Tim Masih, Daniel Laidlow, Ffion Johansen, Shazina Zaini, Paula "Wednesday" Stirland, Scott Vidler, Ross Vaughan, Misty Shadow-World <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Khariot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.