KHYNN is a French metal band from Besançon. Formed in 2004, the band released a 7-tracks EP called “Breakin’ The Fury” in 2007. The latter delivers a heavy trash melodic debut record, establishing a close bound between power and emotion. A blast of energy serving a limitless spirit. Then, some changes occurred in the original line-up: further expanding its musical universe.

In 2011, KHYNN released “Any Fear Dalms Down” an introspective, epic but effective effort with some progressive rock parts and a varied scope of influences going from Scandinavian to American metal. Following the success of And Any Fear Calms Down the band toured with bands such as Dharma. It is at this time that KHYNN started to compose their second album and continued to propose their own music with a brand new full-length effort called "Supersymmetry" available in 2015.

”It’s more emotional than And Any Fear Calms Down and at the same time more powerful to express deep personal feeling that condenses an analysis of a special situation or of existence in general” says Samuel Equoy about Supersymmetry. “The whole album is about feelings, sensations and proposes to keep in mind our past in order to be able to understand our present life” says KHYNN.

“The psychological Supersymmetry concept is actually mental blocks that are linked to the past and to its reciprocal memories. Memory is an interesting issue; alterable and often subject to interpretation, improved by the passing time, neither substance, nor sound, nor photograph, nor video, nor fragrance, nor taste, but it can move us. Every memory is proper to each and for a same situation, the feeling about it can be different though. Memory is comparable to a breath, a respiration, one is used to it and doesn't force it. Thinking about memories is a waste of the present time but how can you enjoy the present time if you don't remember where you come from, what you are, what you have accomplished, the meaning of your very existence? Memory is supersymmetry.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Khynn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.