2005: Khyral was formed and played backyard shows and began writing new material. 

 2006: First recording, never released to public for sale. It was very rough. 

 2007: After 2 years of line-up changes and writing, Khyral was finally able to enter the studio for their first, full length album entitled “Eternal Nightmare”, which was recorded and mixed by their drummer Ryan Stephens. Throughout 07’ the band continued to play shows and work on new music. 

 2008: Early in the year, the band decided to let go of former bassist Dave Bishop and was replaced with friend and supporter of the band, Victor Moreno. Being a supporter from the beginning, it wasn’t long before Victor was up and running. Having another year of music engineering under his belt, Ryan began recording Khyral’s second full length album entitled “Triggered By Hate” which was released on September 20th of 08’ and was the first respectable recording produced by the band. Not long after, Khyral made their first music video for the song “Shut Up and Die”, which was also edited and filmed by drummer Ryan Stephens, in guitarist Tom Waggerman’s garage, whom also had a big part in creating the set of the music video and filming of the video. Throughout 2008-09 Khyral continued to play shows and get their music heard. 

 2009: Late in the year Khyral decided to record a three song demo, for the fans, of their new material which was still in production. At the end of 2009, with the recession looming over everyone’s head, Khyral decided to go their own ways. 

 2010: After a solid year of separation, Victor, Tom and Ryan felt that Khyral wasn’t over but if it were to continue, it would have to go in another direction. So shortly after reuniting and beginning to work on new material, Khyral found their front-man in Matt Wright, formerly of Tenth Key and Counterbore. For the end of 2010 and early in 2011 they played shows with the line-up. 

 2011: After a few shows, Khyral decided they needed “that one extra element” to make the live performances better. So in January of 2011, Khyral added their new guitarist JJ Arechiga formerly of Necroterra, a band in which JJ and Ryan played in while Khyral went their own ways between 09’-10’. With Matt Wright adding powerful vocals and an awesome attitude, Tom Waggerman providing original and intricate guitar riffs, JJ Arechiga producing powerful and raw guitar riffs, Victor Moreno producing groovin and smooth bass lines, and Ryan Stephens supplying the head-banging and creative drum beats, the band has really come together. Khyral is showing their fans what metal means to them. They are constantly striving to achieve new levels in their music and are excited about the new direction they are taking. Khyral is looking forward to creating more mosh pits and giving more bruises, while getting their music heard.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Khyral">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.