Kid Canaveral are a two-boy/two-girl group from Edinburgh. They write indiepop tunes you can move around & flail your limbs to. In true indie spirit, they have self-released four 7" singles and their debut album, on their own label, Straight To Video Records.

"Kid Canaveral showcase a sound too big to be Scotland's secret for much longer" The Fly

"Our new favourite Scottish band who echo the power-pop days of the Undertones and XTC " The Herald (Scotland's biggest selling broadsheet daily newspaper)

"Juicy, chewy pop-kids to savour, proving that life still twitches in this indie guitar-pop business." Paul Whitelaw, The Scotsman

"Super-infectious melodies The Magic Numbers would give their bushy beards for" Daily Record (Scotland's biggest selling tabloid)

"Shouting At Wildlife is a thrilling, uplifting and generally all-round spiffing combination of indie-pop skills, lyrical wit, and choruses sung through smiles." THE SKINNY **** (4 stars)

"This debut is packed with singalong melodies, frisky jangles and a real sense of purpose. A jubilant and skilful racket." THE LIST **** (4 stars)

Formed in 2005 in St Andrews, Fife whilst the band were at university, this Scottish four-piece have been steadily growing in confidence over the past few years, attracting a loyal fan-base with consistently
engaging live performances up and down the UK. They have completed 4 successful UK tours, as well a number of high profile support slots for artists such as Camera Obscura, James Murphy (LCD Soundsystem), KT Tunstall, Frightened Rabbit, Glasvegas, King Creosote and The Phantom Band. Kid Canaveral have been ever present performers at the critically acclaimed Fence Records Home and Away Game Festivals; sharing the bill with amongst others Hot Chip, Four Tet, British Sea Power and Malcolm Middleton. In 2010 their song, Her Hair Hangs Down, was featured in a short Away Game film by esteemed Glasgow film company, Forest Of Black (Belle & Sebastian, Franz Ferdinand).

Kid Canaveral released their long awaited debut album, Shouting at Wildife in July 2010. Across twelve tracks, the band showcase the breadth of their indie-rock and DIY-pop songwriting skills. The album
has been met with wide critical acclaim from both the national press and the online blogosphere – with universal 4* reviews from the major Scottish music press, it has also featured in numerous end of year
polls, including number 5 in the Scottish BAMS, a poll of over 40 influential UK bloggers’ favourite albums of 2010. It was Avalanche Records’ (Scotland’s premier independent record store) best
selling album of 2010, and as such has twice featured in the Observer newspaper’s Culture Map of Britain feature. The band have also completed sell out shows in Edinburgh, Glasgow and London plus a
successful UK tour to support the album.

Over the past 5 years Kid Canaveral have also received significant national and international airplay and exposure. Their singles have received plays from BBC Radio 1’s Rob Da Bank and Steve Lamacq, and legendary DJ and producer Andrew Weatherall featured the band in his 6Mix for BBC 6Music. XFM made the band X-posure Artist of the Week, and BBC Radio 1’s Scotland Introducing made Shouting at Wildlife it’s album of the month featuring a track every week for 5 weeks.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kid+Canaveral">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.