At least six artists share the same name Kiki.
1) Kicki Halmos from Sweden has produced music all her life, and has won acknowledgement for her participation in the new wave duo Masquer (who’s cover of You don’t own me was used in the latest Penny Dreadful trailer) Kiki’s unique voice has been featured on collaborations with dance producers such as The Field, Taragana Pyjarama, Aksel Friberg / Todd Terje, Andreas Tilliander and DJ Sasha. Now she’s finally making a solo debut, and this time she decided to collaborate with the good friend and producer Mathias Oldén, who’s worked with Zhala, El Perro Del Mar and Radio Dept among others. She was the backgroundsinger of Lykke Li for the I Never Learn Tour. Her Debut "Bittersweet" came out 2017.

2) Kiki (Joakim Ijäs) was born and raised in Finland, meanwhile his musical home as a DJ and producer is Berlin. He is famous for his versatile wildstyle, which is a mixture of hi-nrg-tech-house glamour hystery and hilarious sampler explosions. His agile sound likes to take a dip in the pool of hedonism and he has no problem playing a set on three decks all night long without missing a groove or skipping the needles. He is always searching for the freshest stuff with his good humored comprehensive style diversity in order to wind around inelastic structures - this all and a lot more makes him an integral part of the BPitch Control collective.

3) Real Name: Béla Patkó
Hungarian singer, lead vocalist of Első Emelet, member of Csütörtök 12.

4) Kiki is a remix/chiptunes artist raised in the US. Currently unsigned, she's widely known in certain Internet communities for her childlike melodies and synthheavy bootleg remixes of various requested indie rock bands.

5) Kiki is an Indonesian singer from Indonesian Idol Season 2. Her real name is Sri Rizki Nuryulianti.

6) Shirafuji Hikari (白藤ひかり) and Takeda Kanami (武田佳泉) are members of the female shamisen duo KIKI (輝＆輝) and the group Teru & Teru Band (輝＆輝バンド)

7) Kiki is an artist featured on the compilation album MSG, Vol. 2 by internet bedroom punk/incelcore collective MKUltra Support Group.

In 2008 KIKI released the CD 2GIRL SHAMISEN.
In 2013 KIKI released the CD kiki no me.

Their official website is http://kiki-teruteru.jimdo.com
Their Twitter page is https://twitter.com/Kiki_Tsugaru
Their Facebook page is https://www.facebook.com/kikitugalteruteru <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kiki">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.