There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Kiko (Fr):
Since his debut in '92, Kiko is considered one of the very influential players on the French techno scene. The first important project was Phunky Data, a formation of the Grenoble scene (Oxia – The Hacker – Human Body) around the independent labels Goodlife – Interface – Ozon shop (set up by Kiko in '95). This formation, in combination with some other artists, made Grenoble the French electronic city. 

By the end of 2000, Kiko decided to take some distance from the decks to concentrate fully on productions and to orientate these productions around two movements that influenced him the most: new-wave and italo disco. This inheritance was discovered for the first time with Midnight Magic (2001), Goodlife (Monique – international underground classic) and last but certainly not least with Love Emulator (2002 – Sinema project created with Stéphane Deschnezeaux).  
 
As Ozone (you have 2 spellings for this…see above) disappeared, Kiko created the Hot Banana label with Fabrice G. Hot Banana explores numerous productions and projects of Kiko: Money Penny project, Mix Machine with Gino S (Electrogenic EP from summer 2003 with the famous Bikini track), Human Body, Yannick Baudino, Naommon, David Carretta and a special project with The Hacker and Alexander Robotnick (guy on the forefront of Electro-Disco) 

Kiko's diary gets busier and busier by the moment as he's distinguished with éclectism and the originality of his sets: electro-techno-italodisco. 

Today Kiko doesn't focus completely on the pure but four-four techno of the Ozone days. His goal is to produce ‘dance floor' tracks which combine electro, new wave, techno & italodisco. From Hot Banana through Goodlife, also on Turbo (label Tiga) cooperating with David Guetta & Joachim Garraud, Kiko is back on track. 
  
 


2) Kiko (Pt) :

Born February 13, 1970 in Newark, New Jersey where he lives till the age of 10, Kiko then moves to Portugal with his family.

Self made man he acquires a taste for singing and starts to do so in garage bands when he was 15.

At the age of 20 he moves to the student city of Coimbra. There he puts together the Zwet’on Belda Blues Band (Carlos Pascoinho, guitar; Pedro Pascoinho, drums; José Manuel Rodrigues, bass; e Miguel Monteiro, sax). It’s with this band that he starts to take interest in Jazz and Blues.

In 1994 he is invited to join the band from Oporto Bloco Central (Paulo Barros, piano; Manuel Barros, bass e Sérgio Curado, drums). This is his first encounter with Jazz, eventually he signs up in the Oporto Jazz School where he is a pupil of Portuguese jazz singer and teacher Fátima Serro.

In 1995 Fátima Serro invites him to be part of a project of hers called Trupe Vocal (Fátima Serro e Susana Baldaque, vocals; Paulo Gomes, piano, Zé Lima, bass e Mário Teixeira, drums). That participation still goes on and in 2001 they recorded the critically acclaimed “We’ll remember you” album.

Between 1996 and the beginnings of 1998 he is involved in a latin jazz band called Raul Marques e os Amigos da Salsa recording the album “Ligações Perigosas” (Polygram 1997) touring the country and playing some of the most important venues in Portugal.

1998 is the year of the band Keep Kool (Nuno Vieira, guitar; Rui Teixeira, sax; Manuel Barros, bass e Sérgio Curado, drums) and is part of the Quartet In Blue (Mário Santos, sax; Paulo Gomes, piano e Pedro Barreiros, bass) again touring the country and abroad.

By the end of 1999 with the pianist Telmo Marques starts working on other fields of music with Tri-Pop and puts together his Quintet (Paulo Gomes, piano; Pedro Barreiros, bass; Paulo Pinto, guitar e Bruno Pedroso, drums).

Because of his passion for blues he maintains a side group called “Blues Hotel” (Paulo Pinto, guitar; Jorge Filipe piano & hammond; Ricardo Rodrigues, bass e Luís Filipe, drums) which plays every fortnight in a hotel in Oporto.

He was considered by one of Portugal’s leading Jazz critics as the only Jazz singer in country and has been playing regularly in clubs and festivals since.

Towards the end of 2001 he is invited to sing a song written by Portuguese jazz trumpet player Lauren Filipe for the Jazz gala of the 2001 Oporto European Cultural Capital with the Orquestra de Jazz de Matosinhos, Bob Berg, Ingrid Jensen and Conrad Herwig.In 2002 he starts yet another project called Garlopüs (Paulo Pinto, guitar, Pedro Barreiros, bass e Rogelio Santos, drums) and sings as guest with the Solverde Big Band.

2003 is the year of his first album called “Raw”.



3) Kiko (US):
In 1988, KIKO recorded the Freestyle dance track “Anything For Love”. KIKO was the alter ego of lengendary international record and national concert producer Darrin McGillis. See, www.mcgillismusic.com . The title track and various mixes include a solo “percapelle” Percussion Mix by Bashiri Johnson, the man behind the perscussions for (Madonna, Whitney Houston, George Michael, Maria Carey and many more).


See, KIKO at: http://www.mcgillismusic.com/Kiko.htm


4) Kiko (US):

Drum'n'bass producer from Washington, USA.  See http://www.rolldabeats.com/artist/kiko
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kiko">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.