There are two artists that go by the name Kilauea:

1. Kilauea Feat. Daniel Ho
Daniel Ho is a Grammy award-winning musician and producer specializing in Hawaiian music. Born in Kaimuki on Oahu, he attended the Grove School of Music in Los Angeles, where he studied composition before returning home to attend the University of Hawaii. After graduation, Daniel returned to Los Angeles and formed a critically-acclaimed smooth jazz group named Kilauea. In the late 90s, Daniel started his own record company, recording his first album with slack-key guitarist George Kahumoku, Jr… He has since recorded 18 solo albums, produced over 50 albums, served as a guest lecturer at Stanford University, performed as a soloist with the Honolulu Symphony, and received two of the first three Grammy Awards for best Hawaiian music album as a producer

2. Kilauea, the band from Portland Oregon, existed between 2005 and 2007.  Formed by drummer Tenessee Rock Adams and Josh Baker, later joined by Rachel Naganichi.  After months of songwriting and practice, the band still needed a name that represented the intense, gigantic sound that was being produced.  Many ideas were cast to the side until Rachel, who grew up beside the active volcano with the same name, suggested KILAUEA.   At first there was apprehension in using the name, two white boys using the birthright of Rachel to justify using a name seeped in lore and superstition, the volcano is far bigger than anything created by humans.  But the name stuck.  We decided the fact there was a Hawaiian jazz band with the same name did not bother us.  The two generes existed in far separate realms.  We did get threatened by a Hawaiian native that though it offensive we would use the name.  The band put out a 5 song demo, played a bunch of shows in Portland and Seattle, made it one trip down to Oakland, and shortly after imploded, trying for months to regain stability until finally folding.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kilauea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.