The idea to create a southern grind band that would up the ante in American grindcore came about in July 2002, exactly one day after the demise of founding members Chris Andrews and James Delgado's sludge band EOTS. Violent, blistering grind seemed like the only interesting option after wandering the destructive quagmire of slow-as-mud riffs and pummeling sound levels for a few years, learning their instruments and gaining stage experience.

The two immediately enlisted guitarist Stevan Koye as well as Morgan, one of Dallas' most recognized figures of violence and overall destruction on vocals. With the initial lineup intact the band quickly released two self produced CDR demos and at least 1000 of these demos were sold, given away, stolen and traded around the region. The band quickly gained a reputation for laying stages to waste and opening for many of the best touring bands in metal, grind, and doom from around the country with outstanding success.

September 2004 brought the release of the band's first official cd release, "Wage Slave", by a small regional hardcore label called Counterintelligence Recordings. Although the CD received zero formal promotion it was openly received and praised by the grindcore community helping the band immensely. Maximum Rock and Roll called the CD "one of the best grind albums..in years". Other reviews called the release "one of the most intense performances ever committed to CD" while others repeatedly drew comparisons to such legendary and respected acts such as Napalm Death, Brutal Truth, Pig Destroyer and the like.

Immediately following the recording of Wage Slave, guitarist Steven Koye exited the line up to pursue more serious endeavors. Within a matter of days a good friend of the band, Jody Roberts (ex- Kalibas), moved from New York to fill in for a period of time playing 20+ shows as part of the lineup.

Early 2005 led to some important landmarks in solidifying the long term future of the band. Original EOTS guitarist and good friend of the band Chris Richardson joined as permanent guitarist. The band signed to Willowtip records and then toured the east coast to participate in both the Maryland Deathfest (which hosts many of the most important worldwide bands in the genre year to year) as well as the Boston Doom and Grind fest with great success.

October/November will mark both the bands second release titled "Escalation of Hostility" on the mighty Willowtip records (with a European release planned with Earache Records). A Central U.S. and West coast tour with Lair of the Minotaur (Southern Lord) is also in the works.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kill+the+Client">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.