Killing Touch is the new band, founded and strongly desired by Michele Luppi (Vision Divine, Los Angeles, MR.PIG). The artistic and professional experiences of one of the most esteemed Metal singers of our times have lead to “One Of A Kind”, the debut album.

Current Members:
Michele Luppi ex Vision Divine, Los Angeles, Mr Pig: Vocals
Michele 'Dr Viossy' Vioni: Lead Guitar
Georgio 'JT' Terenziani: Bass
Davide Montorsi: Guitar
Paolo 'Dimitri' Caridi: Drums

One Of A Kind is a concept-album, freely inspired by Stephen King’s novel “The Dead Zone”, composed by 12 tracks of powerful, refined and meticulously crafted sound. All the songs are the result and follow the natural course of a path that began years ago; they develop a great synergy between melody, harmony and lyrics, which makes every song unique, though perfectly inserted in the concept.
For this occasion there are some special guests, three former Michele’s companions: Oleg Smirnoff, Andrea “Tower” Torricini and Federico Puleri. What makes this project so special is the presence of “true” elements and instruments: acoustic drums, guitars and piano (the latter played by Luppi himself). This new band wants to combine the various experiences of his members in a brand-new music reality!

There are so many different influences in this intense work: Metal, Rock, Prog, Power, with a huge measure of Hard Rock sound. The accurate songwriting and arrangement make Killing Touch a band with several nuances and great personality, that will find its natural strength in the “live” dimension. The great on-stage experience of some members of the band has been an essential requisite for composing fresh, powerful and genuine songs. Passion, professionalism and dedication are distinctive elements of this album, that make both the musician and the composition itself stand out. The result is a unique sound (…”One of a kind”…), that is the representation of what Killing Touch are today, both at the emotional and musical level. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Killing+Touch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.