Origin : United States of America (Ocala, Florida)
Formed in : 1988 
Current Label : Unsigned
Status : Active

Current line-up:
Chad Bailey - Guitar (Nosvampyram)
Pat Bailey - Bass, vocals (Nosvampyram)
Chris Wicklein - Guitar 
Chris York - Drums

Former/past member(s)
Gabriel "Gabe" Lewandowski - Drums
Chris Ballina - Drums


Discography:
When Death Becomes An Art [EP, 2014]
Fall of the Archetypes [Full-length and EP versions, 2010]
Dark Tomorrow [EP, 1998]
Dark Tomorrow / Ancient Regime [Split, 1995]
Omega Factor [Full-length, 1993]
Necrosphere [EP, 1991]
Legacies of Terror [Demo, 1990]

Copied from http://www.metal-archives.com/
------------------------------------------------------------

KILLING ADDICTION is a death metal band from central Florida with an established name in the old school death metal genre. The band’s first full-length recording, entitled Omega Factor, is often considered a minor classic of American death metal, and their style is based in politically and philosophically charged themes combined with musical influences that span death metal (Death, Possessed, Morbid Angel, Atheist), grindcore (Napalm Death, Carcass), and thrash (Slayer, Sacred Reich, Kreator).

In 1989, Chris Wicklein and brothers Chad and Pat Bailey formed Killing Addiction, in Ocala, Florida, and thus became one of the few bands of the time to help introduce death metal to the central Florida area. In 1990, they were joined by drummer Chris Ballina, and their first official studio recording was underway.  This recording was entitled "Legacies of Terror," the four-song demo tape, recorded at Titan Studios, which played a fundamental roll in establishing their presence in the underground tape-trading and fanzine scene.

As a result of the "Legacies" recording, the following year saw the release of their "Necrosphere" 7" vinyl EP, on Seraphic Decay records - a label responsible for initiating many early, successful death metal bands, such as Incantation, Gorephobia, Derketa, Sinister, and many more.  Like "Legacies," this next recording was also made at the local Titan Studios, but included some atmospheric keyboard arrangements that nudged their style forward in new directions.  "Necrosphere" was the final recording with Chris Ballina, who left the band to pursue other interests.

In 1992, Chris York joined as the band's new drummer, and after only two months with York, Killing Addiction recorded the aforementioned full-length, debut "Omega Factor," for the short-lived JL America Records.  To support this recording, the band performed live throughout the north, central, and south Florida areas, with death metal legends such as Obituary, Atheist, Incantation, and Resurrection, and early genre underground favorites such as Assuck, Paineater, Incision, and Equinox.

After the demise of JL America came the band's independent 1993 release, "Dark Tomorrow," which was a split EP with fellow Floridians Eterne De Sade. This became Killing Addiction's last recording during the years of the early Florida death metal scene, as Chris York parted ways for personal reasons, and the remaining members decided, at the time, the band had run its course.  However, before their departure in early 1994, Killing Addiction was voted the Best North Florida Band at the 4th Annual Tampa Bay Metal Awards (September, 1993). 

In early 2006, after 12 years of silence, Killing Addiction reformed ready to pick up where they left off.  Their first studio effort to return to the scene was "Fall of the Archetypes," released as a full-length album on Xtreem Music (Spain), and as a limited-edition, six-song EP.  "Archetypes" was recorded at DOW Studios (which also produced Morbid Angel's "Heretic" album), in Sefner, Florida, and Aeon Studios, in Ocala, Florida.  This recording included Gabriel Lewandowski as the band's new drummer.  Although some of their music's basic elements remained present, there was a deliberate effort to modernize some aspects of their sound.  The result was a faster, more aggressive style and songs that demonstrated improved musicianship and arrangement.

Personal schedule conflicts limited Killing Addiction to be an exclusive studio band upon their return.  No live performances were undertaken until November of 2013, which also saw the return of former drummer Chris York.  Since then, the band has shared the stage with others such as Druid Lord, Nocturnus A.D., Ebullition, Ulcer, Mindscar, Sons of Ragnar, Secrets She Kept, and many others.  In September 2014, Killing Addiction recorded a two-song EP entitled "When Death Becomes An Art," set to be released as a 7" EP on Inverse Dogma Records (Italy) in early 2015.  This venture was recorded and produced by Ray Helton at Helton Music, Ocala, Florida, and demonstrates a return to a musical style closer to the trademark sound of  "Omega Factor," albeit with the improved musical aspects of "Fall of the Archetypes." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Killing+Addiction">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.