Belgian born and Berlin based producer Seba, better known as Kill Frenzy, has an infinite affinity for crude, lewd, deep and dark vibrations. As a teenager, he acquired a distinct taste for house and techno from the greats: Jeff Mills, Green Velvet, DJ Godfather, David Clarke, DJ Slugo, DJ Milton, DJ Funk. These kingpins would o!ccasionally drop booty records, which further peaked Kill Frenzy’s interest.

These tunes went on to lay the foundation for KF’s initial releases on Ghetto Test (a subsidiary of the infamous Dust Traxx Records) and Juke Trax (DJ Godfather’s Ghetto Tech label). His rapid-fire juke joints, clocking around 160 BPM, were pure youthful adrenaline. Seba soon came back around to his early love of filthy and funky s!ounds create his most well known release thus far, “Make That Booty Clap.”
In 2012, Kill Frenzy signed to Claude VonStroke’s San Francisco based label, dirtybird. The idyllic pairing of “Booty Clap” and dirtybird, enabled the record to spread like a virus, infecting DJs as d!iverse as Soul Clap and Skrillex—the later of whom helped turn this signature tune into a festival anthem.

Taylr Swft, Kill Frenzy’s debut album is due out on dirtybird this coming November. Label boss, VonStroke says:
 
"I'm almost sad to start sharing the new Kill Frenzy album with everyone else because it has been my secret weapon all summer.
At one point I was playing seven tracks from the album in the same s!et - it was almost embarrassing. I'm very fickle about choosing what I play and this album is amazing."

Kill Frenzy’s inaugural album will include a collective plethora of sounds for an assorted audience with singles like “No Panties” for the ecstatic festival and club-goers and “All Night” for the Funktion- One hungry super fans. Séba’s diverse love for bizarre yet melodic, catchy underground house & techno is what has lured DJs and dancers worldwide, making him a force to be reckoned with. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kill+Frenzy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.