KILLING SKILLS
As the name suggests, we at Killing Skills have retained the many skills involved with recording, producing, mixing and mastering music on a professional level. Our team consists of young, qualified and technically skilled people who have picked up a lot of experience over the years. We pay attention to every little detail and treat your work and demands with the greatest care to result in a more than satisfying product. A new quality standard is set in music business.
We opened a studio in the prestigious Volkskrantbuilding in the centre of Amsterdam. This recording- and production facility is complete with vocal/recording booth, two control rooms and all the necessary hard- and software to ensure you a professional final product.
RECORDING
With our broad experience in this field, we can offer you the best quality in (vocal) recording. We work with high-end studio-equipment and renowned brands like Neumann, Avalon, Focusrite, Røde, AKG and RME.
COMPOSITION / PRODUCTION
We operate in a great variety of musical styles with a special focus on hiphop, r&b, pop, house and electronic beats. We also do composition and production for media purposes (tv, radio, internet, game industry).
We often use a lot of analog sources (live instrumentation, analog synths, analog effects) blended with digital, electronic beats to create an unique warm and sparkling sound. We work with classic synths such as the Moog Prodigy, Korg MS-2000 and Roland Juno 60. This collection is complemented by a couple of rare and unique synths like the Polivoks (Russian analog synth), Jen SX 1000 and the Sequential Circuits Pro-one.
MIXING & MASTERING
When it comes to mixing & mastering, we provide a clear, open and stable sound for each musical genre. We focus on all the details and treat every musical layer with respect to result in a professional, outstanding sound.
Because Killing Skills has a professionally educated engineering background, you will obviously be satisfied and stunned by our mixing & mastering results. 

- via Project:Mooncircle <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Killing+Skills">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.