Killer Be Killed is an American supergroup founded by The Dillinger Escape Plan vocalist Greg Puciato and Soulfly/ex-Sepultura frontman Max Cavalera in early 2011. The lineup also features Mastodon bassist and vocalist Troy Sanders, and Converge drummer Ben Koller. Ex-The Mars Volta and current Antemasque drummer Dave Elitch recorded the band's first self-titled album with the band, but Koller toured with the group for the supporting live shows. He was brought on as a full member at the end of the tour.
The band had slowly been working on material before announcing its name in October 2013, along with their signing to Nuclear Blast. The release date for their self-titled debut record is May 13, 2014.

The band was first touted in February 2011, when Metal Hammer reported news of Puciato and Cavalera planning a new project in the vein of Cavalera's Nailbomb band with Alex Newport in the mid 1990s. Shortly afterwards, The Mars Volta's Dave Elitch and Mastodon bassist Troy Sanders were announced to be part of the project. Despite not yet having a name, the group entered the Fortress Studio in Los Angeles, CA in September 2013 with producer Josh Wilbur. In October 2013, the band revealed Killer Be Killed as their name and announced that their first album would be released through Nuclear Blast. In March 2014, an announcement confirmed that the band's debut album would be self-titled, Killer Be Killed, and would be released on May 13, 2014. On March 14, 2014, two songs from the upcoming eponymous debut, "Wings of Feather and Wax", and "Face Down" were made available for streaming.

Commenting on the writing process of their first album, Cavalera told Decibel that the record will be "politically charged" and that the composition will be a merging of styles of each of its members. In a press release, Puciato characterizes the style, "It’s a bit of Sabbath-y doom, a bit of thrash, a bit of hardcore punk" continuing, "Of any of our bands, it sounds the furthest away from mine..."

http://www.killerbekilled.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Killer+Be+Killed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.