★ STUART CABLE MEMORIAL SINGLE ★ 

Just 79p, available now ★ ALL proceeds going to charity 

http://www.killingforcompany.com
 
Or  ★ Text STUART to 78789 and download to your phone (or pc)  ★ 
(£1.50 plus standard operator charges and is valid in UK only). 

Thank you for your support


"So, what do you do when your first band sold millions and you toured the world with the biggest names, but you no longer get along with the front man…? If you’re Stuart Cable and that band was the Stereophonics, you leave get a new career in TV/radio and wait until you find the right guys to form another, seriously rockin band." KERRANG! Magazine

Stuart Cable (Ex Stereophonics) has a new band...

Having worked with renowned American producer Bob Marlette (Alice Cooper, Ozzy Osbourne, Marilyn Manson, Black Sabbath, Black Stone Cherry...) Killing For Company have cut their teeth gigging with the likes of The Who, Fightstar, The Automatic, The Alarm, Tesla, The Charlatans and many more in venues ranging from the Liberty Stadium and the CIA to the sweat pits of Barfly, Islington Academy, Rock City and the like.

The band have been snapped up Demolition Records and will join the ranks of the flagship new DR2 World Wide label. With the album recordings complete and a release date to be announced shortly, 2010 looks set to be “their year” with line ups at major festivals, TV appearances and further film collaborations to be announced shortly.

Killing For Company can also be seen in the new McKenzie Crook (The Office, Pirates of the Caribbean) film "Abraham’s Point", in which they perform and provide musical score (in cinemas soon!).

With the hugely anticipated album "Lost Art of Deception" set for imminent release, keep up to date with the latest news by registering to their exclusive mailing list.

www.killingforcompany.com

Many thanks
  
   
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Killing+for+Company">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.