Killrazer is a metal band from Sydney, Australia that plays a mix of old-school thrash and death metal. Featuring some of the most experienced musicians from the Sydney metal scene, Killrazer’s brutal riffage is highlighted by a blistering twin-vocal attack and virtuosic guitar soloing. This is coupled with an intense and commanding live show.

As well as being one of Sydney’s top headline metal acts, Killrazer have supported a number of international touring bands including Children of Bodom, Malevolent Creation, Sodom, Vader, Krisiun and Dismember.

Killrazer released a self-titled EP in 2009 and are currently preparing to release their debut full-length album.

Comprising of singer/guitarist Doug Dalton (Grungeon, Dark Order), Zoran Mracik (Dark Order, Divine Electric) on bass/vocals, guitar virtuoso Jimmy Lardner-Brown (Vaticide), and new drummer Josh Brazewell, the band are veterans of the Australian metal scene. This experience is evident in their powerful live performances and top-notch musicianship.

Killrazer served as the backing band for Paul Dianno – the legendary original singer of Iron Maiden – on his 2009 and 2010 Australian and New Zealand tours. This was a first for any Australian metal act. Rather than simply supporting an international metal artist they professionally and capably toured as the actual band.

In May/June 2012 Killrazer's Doug Dalton and Jimmy Lardner-Brown toured Australia and New Zealand as guitarists for renowned metal vocalist Tim 'Ripper' Owens (Judas Priest, Iced Earth, Yngwie Malmsteen, Dio Disciples).

In Nov/Dec 2012 Doug and Jimmy also served as guitarists for Paul Di'Anno and Blaze Bayley (Ex-Iron Maiden) on their Aus/NZ co-headlining tour.

HISTORY

Killrazer was formed in 2005 by guitarist/vocalist Doug Dalton (Crucifix, Suiciety, Grungeon, Blown [USA], Dark Order), bassist/vocalist Zoran Mrakic (Dark Order, Devine Electric), and drummer Mick McCartney (Dark Order, Vaticide). After Mick left the band, Doug and Zoran continued to write and fine-tune the songs, with Luke Cook (Mortal Sin) helping out with rehearsals until permanent members could be found.

In early 2007 drummer Grahame Goode (Infernal Method, Automation, Deadspawn, Cryogenic) joined the band, with guitarist and good friend Andrew Lilley (Infernal Method, Psi-Core, Mortality) helping out on a temporary basis.

Killrazer played their first shows in April 2007, supporting Vader on the Sydney and Melbourne legs of their Australian tour. Shortly thereafter they supported German thrash legends Sodom in Sydney.

Australian Guitar Magazine 'Best Guitarist' winner Jimmy Lardner-Brown (Vaticide) joined the band in late 2007 to complete the line-up.

2008 saw Killrazer gig regularly – supporting some of Australia's top metal acts, performing their own headline shows, and supporting prominent touring bands such as Children of Bodom to crowds upwards of 2000 people.

Killrazer recorded a debut EP in mid 2008. Released later that year, it features three diverse tracks that capture the raw energy and technical precision of Killrazer’s live thrash assault, along with crisp production courtesy of jENK (Mortality, Cryogenic.)

In March 2009 Killrazer supported Floridian death metal legends Malevolent Creation on their east coast Australian tour.

As well as becoming a regular columnist for 'Australian Guitar Magazine' Jimmy Lardner-Brown secured an official Ibanez endorsement in April 2009, making him one of the first guitarists in Australia to be sponsored by the illustrious brand.

In May/June 2009 Killrazer scored a massive notch in their belt by becoming the official Australian band for Paul Dianno, the original Iron Maiden vocalist. Dianno sang on the first two iconic Iron Maiden albums – the self titled debut and the follow up 'Killers'. Having sold in excess of 25 million albums in his career, he holds a very important place in the history of heavy metal. Killrazer successfully completed the first ever Australian and New Zealand tour as Dianno's backup musicians – a first for any Australian band.

Prior to the Paul Dianno tour, Grahame Goode left the band. Pete Hunt (ex Dragonforce, Marshall Law) was enlisted to capably fill-in on drum duties.

On New Years Day 2010 Killrazer performed at 'Screamfest' – Australia’s first two day metal festival featuring major international bands – held at the famous Enmore Theatre in Sydney. In January 2010, Paul Ibottson (Daemon Foetal Harvest, Aeturnus Dominion) joined on drums.

In mid 2010 Killrazer completed the Paul Dianno '30th Anniversary of Iron Maiden Tour', being Dianno's backing band for the second time running and performing all around Australia and New Zealand.

After Ibbotson left the band due to injury, Killrazer was once again stuck without a drummer. Tired of the revolving door of drummers that had plagued them from the start, the band was determined to take their time and find the right person for the job. This search lasted for all of 2011, with Grahame Goode graciously filling-in to play a few select shows.

In early 2012, drummer Josh Brazewell officially joined the band, solidifying the line-up for the first time in a number of years.

www.killrazer.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Killrazer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.