Mixing equal parts of metal, melody, Jack Daniels and Lone Star Beer, Killing in Apathy has a sound that is brutal yet still approachable and catchy. 

After forming in 2004 and evolving throughout the years, Killing in Apathy has come full circle and has seized a secure and noticeable position in the Texas metal scene.

With an almost non-stop show schedule, exponential growth of their fanbase, and the release of their first full-length album, 2010 through the present has proved to be a very successful time for the band.

In 2011 the band released their highly anticipated sophomore EP "Transcend the Architect", official music video for the EP's first single "Clarity Within Chaos", and went on their first national tour to the west coast, making a significant fanbase growth in the process.

In 2013 KIA released yet another EP "Death & Taxes". which shows the direction and maturity in metal their fans have come to expect and enjoy. Along with Music and Lyric Videos.

TBA in 2014 KIA plans to release a full length CD so keep your eyes peeled for that!

Big things are on the horizon for Killing in Apathy. Make sure to stay tuned, and most importantly, prepare to go balls deep... 
KILLING IN APATHY HAS PERFORMED WITH:

Fair to Midland
Upon A Burning Body
Unearth
Chimaira
Skeletonwitch
Molotov Solution
Inhale Exhale
The Browning
Cavalera Conspiracy 
Otep 
Betrayal 
King Conquer 
Float Face Down 
Down 
Darkest Hour 
Periphery 
Revocation 
Powerman 5000 
36 Crazyfists 
Straight Line Stitch 
Texas In July 
This or the Apocalypse 
Deception of a Ghost 
Fallujah 
Picture it in Ruins 
Destruction of a Rose 
The Subtle Way 
Decapitated 
The Faceless 
All Shall Perish 
The Red Chord 
Veil of Maya 
Cephalic Carnage 
Decrepit Birth 
Carnifex 
Animals As Leaders 
Vital Remains 
Within the Ruins 
The World We Knew 
Woe of Tyrants 
Structures 
Scale the Summit 
Ambush! 
Continuance 
Lions Lions 
And Hell Followed With 
Flaw 
Silent Civilian 
Misery Index 
Magrudergrind 
Warbeast 
Mower 
Dirty Wormz 
Within Chaos <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Killing+in+Apathy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.