There are many artists using this name:

1) KIM is a stoner sludge metal band from Turkmenistan.

2) Kim was born in Paris in 1990 on the 6th of March - Her origins are Spanish and Martinican. She debuted on the music scene on 2004 at the Fête de la Musique. There are various international influences, including Caribbean music; she is signed to the label SECTION ZOUK. She usually performs R&B.

3) K.I.M is an Australian producer/drummer/programmer and a member of The Presets. His newest single, "Wet 'N' Wild," is on Cut Copy's new label "Cutters." 

4) Kim is a band from Chicago featuring Janet Kim (guitar), Yanti Arafin (guitar) and Mia Park (drums).  Their 4-song EP is currently the only album here with a cover picture.

5) Kim is a DJ based in South London, whose work is credited either to Kim or Skim, depending on her moods.  She primarily works in techno and breaks.

6) KIM born Kim Stanislas Gianiis is a french electro musician who plays drums, guitar, bass , organs, vocals, piano, harp, sax, and flute. He has released 17 albums and 10 singles. His latest album is called "Mary Lee Doo." Myspace. Website (french only).

7) Kim is the artist name that shows up on last.fm when Matt & Kim tracks are scrobbled from Spotify. Matt & Kim are an indie power pop duo from Brooklyn, New York consisting of Matt Johnson (vocals, keyboards) and Kim Schifino (drums, vocals).

8) Kim (better known as Kim Hoorweg) is a Dutch Jazz singer, 16 years old. Her first album is called Kim is back

9) Kim (born Quách Cẩm Lê) is a Vietnamese 16-year-old rapper. Her first album was 'Kim Vol 1'. She is the first 'overground' female rapper in Vietnam, and she has gained her reputation after a lot of performances.

10) KIM is a guitarist in the doujin metal scene. He currently plays in the bands Imperial Circus Dead Decadence, Vaguedge dies for dies irae, Silent Difference and Another Stream.

11) KIM was a band from Yugoslavia, active in the 1980s. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.