1) Kin was originally formed in Manchester (UK) as a solo project and included those of BBC6 Music among its fans. After it's singer and guitarist, Kim Foster, defected to Groningen (NL) in 2011 and started working with members of Vox Von Braun and the Swains, she reformed Kin as a full band.

Kin are ...
K Foster
Jouke van der Krieke
Maike Doornebosch
Peter Blokzijl  

2) (New artist name is Solblomma) kiN is the alias of Sara Solblomma from Stockholm, Sweden. The music can be described as a fusion of Electronica, Alternative and Pop. The new album Those Bombs Were Made for Us was released digitally in August and on CD in October of 2009. The debut album The Zombic Hunch was released in 2005. 4 Singles and an EP in Swedish have also been released between the first and second album. For more info go to 
Homepage
Youtube Solblomma 
Myspace

kiN has been making music for some time. Her first record as Sara - SARA - PEACD02 (at Some Pearls/Slask Records) was released in 1997(produced by Håkan Folkesson a.k.a. Paramaterial).

The album 'Sara' had some industrial elements to it, but occasionally seamlessly turned to electronic ambience, dancemusic and exciting rhythmics.
She also participated on a swedish vegan-compilation in 1997 'Defenders of the Oppressed Breed' and released a promo ep called 'Liberation' with 6 tracks from the album 'Sara'.

Sara has performed live at Hultsfredsfestivalen at the poetry scene in 1993. In 1998 she performed at Arvikafestivalen (her performance was cancelled for technical reasons the year before) and once in Falun at a small festival for alternative music (a bootleg live recording was released in small numbers on tape as 'live på AkA Alternativ Torsdag'). A demo-cd called Mushroom Airport was also released. She also recorded some promotional material some of which was published online at the first version of http://www.mp3.com/ (the downloadable tracks are long gone now) around the same time.

For more information visit:
http://www.kinplanet.se/
http://www.myspace.com/sarasolblomma


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.