Kinasis are a technical extreme-metal band from Somerset with a wide range of primarily metal influences (from contemporary metal to thrash, death metal and grindcore). 
The bands usage of dynamic volume changes, tempo changes and odd-time signatures in their material lends a technical almost progressive edge to their overall sound.  

Kinasis were formed in 2009 by ex-members of several prominent Somerset / Wiltshire based metal bands (Downfall, Permanent Bullet Trip, Sharp End First, Hatekills).

Kinasis made their debut live performance in Devizes, headlining above exeter based punk-band Ratattack on March 30th 2010. The band have since amazed audiences around the country and are gradually beginning to make waves on the UK underground metal scene.

Kinasis are:
Tom Harris - Motivational vocalisations
Marcus Burns - 7 string distortional manipulator and additional rants and chants
Tom Sellick - 7 string concrete death machine operator and grunts and screams
Tristan Winchester - Subsonic oscillation / brown noise generation
Jason Trunks - Psychotic percussive time perversion and technological terrorism

Kinasis describe themselves as an 'Exogeneous' metal entity.
The term 'Exogeneous' is defined as: 
"A variable is exogeneous to a model if it is not determined by other parameters and variables in the model, but is set externally and any changes to it come from external forces."

Kinasis explain their usage of the term in their bio like this:

"We see Kinasis as being exogeneous to the metal world in the sense that whatever happens 
in other metal sub­genres it will not affect us. Trends will come and go in various metal
sub-genres, but Kinasis will not blindly follow them like many so many bandwagon jumpers do. We play what we want, regardless of whether it's 'in' this season or not. 

We're the external force, the outsiders, the cracks in the mainstream. 
We shape our own fate. Leaders not followers, shepherds not sheep! " <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kinasis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.