1.-London, UK (soul, rnb) London-based KINDER has unveiled his new single, ‘Feeling Gets Too Heavy’, marking the first release through his own newly formed label, Lapsang House. The moniker of singer-songwriter Leo Wyatt, KINDER hasn’t wasted any time since last year’s debut EP and the new cut is a welcome reminder of the distinctive falsettoed soul that made ‘Light’ such a powerful force. The young producer garnered strong support towards the end of 2016 from Amazing Radio, BBC Introducing and in the form of over 65,000 Spotify streams in a single day for the first single, making his way into the Global Viral 50. With brand new material to whet a collective appetite, it won’t be long before this multi-instrumentalist is making even more sizeable waves.
‘Feeling Gets Too Heavy’ is a large slice of soul-infused bliss, so it may come as a surprise that Leo wrote the track as ‘a cry for help when stress and anxiety start to take hold of your life.’ Wanting to learn and evolve from the sound he’d created for the first EP, the pulse of this new release beats with a newfound intensity, inspired by a sold out live date at The Pickle Factory supporting The Naked Eye. The opening few bars couple the bell-like chimes of a Rhodes with a crackled drum sample before Leo’s hushed vocal enters, beautifully harmonising in his Buckley-esque tone. The lyrics speak of a hollow rage and wanting to give up, but when the chorused guitar hook climbs up and down its playful melody there’s a shimmering vision of hope.

Leo’s writing is very much grounded in his past experiences as an acoustic singer-songwriter, but his perfectly formed compositions have been taken apart and packaged up again with a boundary blurring sound to prick up even the most scathing of ears. Illustrating unmistakable vocal artistry as he layers harmony upon harmony, the effortless blend of warm, metallic keys and dusty beats have now become integral to KINDER’s sound. The classically trained pianist performed, recorded and produced ‘Feeling Gets Too Heavy’, before calling upon recent MOBO UnSung nominee Magnus Thomson for the final mix. Drenched in the kind of melodic charm that will worm its way into your subconscious for days to come, KINDER’s new single is an incredibly promising taste of what’s to follow.
2.-Instrumental and experimental indie rock band from Peru, they released the Mini EP and decided to change their musical path after giving live performances as the music for Caligari. Kinder are about to release a new EP, showing their new musical style. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kinder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.