Reviews-

StonerRock.com - Kingdom Of Magic, Denver 2/16/2008 

This band, Kingdom of Magic, a Denver power trio brought their dense, plowing thunder to the Marquis Theater on Saturday, and it was an epic, if short set. I've known (guitarist) Luke Fairchild for several years, originally from his earlier (slightly more hardcore) band Sparkles. KOM has only done one self-released silkscreened EP called flight of but I expect much more from them soon. They write great riffs, and have one of those kudgeling rhythym sections that just locks in, and then crushes everything in its path. The bassist sort of does a little Cliff Burton channelling, with some nice leads woven into the heaviness. 


From Denver's Westword Best of 2007 .  Best Live Band
Kingdom of Magic
"Frontman/guitarist Luke Fairchild is a gnarly motherfucker when you put him in front of a mic. The seasoned musician, who has charmed crowds before in such stellar acts as White Dynamite and Sparkles, is now allied with equally formidable musicians drummer Devin Rogers (of Munimula) and bassist Joe Ramirez (another ex-Whitey). The trio commands the stage with a vehemence that induces riotous fist-raising and metal finger salutations. Like Bad Brains filtered through an Eyehategod guitar pedal, Kingdom is the perfect blend of super-heavy rock and energetic punk. Barely a year old, the Denver-based outfit has cultivated an ardent following of metalheads, hardcore kids, scenesters and rock snobs alike. Enter the Kingdom."

The Portland Mercury

"Denver's Kingdom of Magic cast a rejuvenating rock spell on the term "power trio." Their sound is loud, fuzzy, and classic, without seeming tired or played out.  Other psychedelic stoner groups like Mammatus and Dead Meadow are obvious modern touchstones; the sound is more hypnotic and melodic than actually crushing.  These cats do a great job of syncopating their riffs over solid rock beats in inventive ways that would make Zeppeling or AC/DC proud if they weren't too rich and old to pay attention.  It's the incessant nature of the riffs that works best, though, on campy animal-themed songs like "Mighty Manatee" and "Gravity Falcon".  NATHAN CARSON
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kingdom+of+Magic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.