Descending from the highest heavens, erupting through ground from the exact center of the Earth, effortlessly bending the immutable laws of space and time to attack your senses from infinite angles, remorselessly and repeatedly violating all grammatical common sense to construct the most dramatic sentence EVER, it’s King Hell!—the two-headed musical monster that weighs a ton, sweats up a thunderstorm and still tastes god damn delicious. With dual, dynamo front-men, epic guitar and bass and drums tighter than Sean Hannity’s butthole at a gay pride parade, King Hell’s music and live show come with a money-back guarantee to tear the roof off the joint, burn the house down, and other compelling idioms.     

King Hell’s musical message is simple: it’s the hooks, stupid. Too much of today’s heavy music feels lazy and forgettable, bogged down in sludgy, detuned guitars and screaming so overwrought you’d think the perpetrator grew up in Darfur (instead of the suburbs). King Hell’s strong-armed songs pull the genre out of the mire, with four-star vocal melodies, gorgeously chiseled riffs and undeniable rhythms. And their sound is their own. Drawing from influences as diverse as Metallica to funk pioneers The Meters, King Hell synthesizes distinct musical molecules into a devastatingly addictive new chemistry: “rhythm and bruise” heavy metal. They even draw from Bach, but everybody says that. 

Formed in the summer of 2006, King Hell have crisscrossed the country, addicting legions with their undeniable live show while sharing the stage with legendary costumed bands like The Misfits and Lizzy Borden. Done with watching an endless string of shoe gazing groups with no detectable pulse, King Hell have sworn to return entertainment value to live rock. King Hell shows are high-decibel, high-octane carnivals, with each member a comic character who’s an act unto him/her/something-in-between self. Audiences thrill to the zoot-suited gangster, the heavy metal superhero, the vigilante from the future, the escaped clone of Dr. Funkenstein, the martial arts master and the succulent succubi of Queen Hell. Even Jesus has signed on as the band’s roadie. One mind-blown fan described their show as “A (expletive) electric (expletive) circus, man! (Expletive)!” Another observer dubbed them “the Village People of metal.” Both are pretty accurate. 

King Hell have recently joined forces with Seventh Level Records, releasing their debut album on the label in 2007. Seventh Level is a new breed of untamable musical animal that’s part record company and part band collective. Together with the other outstanding acts on the label, King Hell and their new cohorts form a Super Friends of Metal, battling to defend the world against cynically pre-fabricated bands with “The” in their names and intentionally uneven haircuts. 

King Hell will soon be the dominant force in the cosmos, overtaking the speed of light, the pull of gravity and the Justin Timberlake’s inexplicable appeal. All life is advised to bow before King Hell or be eternally enslaved. Because if even Jesus likes them, it’s only a matter of time before God adds an eighth day to the week just for King Hell to rock on. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/King+Hell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.