The following details are straight from the Intromental website and made need further editing.


BIOGRAPHY 
 
The band was originally founded in Rome, Italy, by Diego Cafolla (guitars) and Manuel Thundra Cafolla (drums) in 1996 under the name of "Earth Shaker". Inspired by Edgar Allan Poe's poem "Raven" and driven by a will of change, the band's name was soon altered into Kingcrow. Together with Stefano Tissi (vocals), the first promo CD Eyes Of Memories was published in 1997. The second promo CD, Hurricane's Eye, was released in 2000, and served as the proof of Kingcrow's evolution into progressive atmospheres performed with a subtle hard rock and metal approach. This stylistic choice was finally consolidated in 2001 with the first official studio album, Something Unknown. In the same year Ivan Nastasi, a guitarist of the classic hard rock / heavy metal style, joined the band. In 2002 Stefano was replaced by Mauro Gelsomini (vocals), who contributed to the songs with his deep and emphatic approach. In June 2003 Kingcrow recorded a 3-track promo CD entitled Matzmariels. Ready for the next step, Kingcrow decided that the next release should be a conceptual album, and thus Insider became reality. Kingcrow noted, "We see this album as a continuous flow of emotions narrated by music". 

During 2004 and 2005, Kingcrow built their own recording studio in Rome. A new album, Timetropia, (heralded by media and fans as a true rock opera along the lines of Tommy, "Jesus Christ Superstar" or even Operation Mindcrime), was recorded and published worldwide by Lucretia Records International. In 2007 and 2008, together with new bassist Angelo Orlando[/artist[/bandmember], Kingcrow performed several live shows at the biggest Italian hard rock-heavy metal music festivals (including Gods Of Metal alongside Iron Maiden and Judas Priest) to support the album release. 

In February 2009, during the recording sessions for the new album, Phlegethon, Francesco D'Errico (bass) joined the band. Also Mauro decided to leave the band due to personal reasons, and was substituted by Diego Marchesi, a singer with outstanding vocal skills that has an emotional approach which will help consolidate Kingcrow's status as one of the most original bands to come out of Italy in recent years. 

The band has just finished the recordings of Phlegethon, a new overall and exciting concept, representing the very best of their progressive rock / metal approach. According to the band "This new discs finds us exploring paths of progressive rock and metal we've never ventured before - it is an exciting time for us and we feel more confident about Kingcrow's future than ever". Phlegethon was released worlwide by Scarlet Records May 2010. 

Describing the band today is quite a difficult task, but one could state that the influence of such artists as Porcupine Tree, Riverside, Opeth, Orphaned Land or even Dream Theater in their more subtle moments are all present in the music of Kingcrow. With each release Kingcrow has taken a step further away from their original roots as a classic hard rock / metal band and is today one of the most exciting bands that Italy has to offer. 
 
LINE-UP 
Diego Marchesi - vocals
Diego Cafolla - guitars
Ivan Nastasi - guitars
Francesco D'Errico - bass
Manuel Thundra Cafolla - drums
Cristian Della Polla - keyboards 
 
DISCOGRAPHY
2015: Eidos
2013: In Crescendo
2010: Phlegethon
2006: Timetropia
2004: Insider
2003: Matzmariels EP
2001: Something Unknown
 
WEBSITE
Kingcrow Official Website
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kingcrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.