KINGDRAGON is a Melodic Hard n Heavy band formed in 2006 by George Aspiotis (Vocals + Keyboards), the keyboardist of SPITFIRE, and ex-NIGHTFALL and RAW SILK. After a long period of service in the Greek Hard & Heavy Rock scene he decides to create a “new strong melodic sound” stemming from a mixture of his musical experiences/influences from 3 powerful melody decades, the 70’s, the 80’s and the 90’s.

KINGDRAGON was asked to appear live for the first time in front of the Athenian audience on 3 November 2006 supporting the distinguished GOTTHARD. It was the best that could happen for KINGDRAGON. They performed all their unreleased material plus a well-known Journey cover (Separate Ways) in front of an audience unfamiliar with the band! KINGDRAGON received excellent reports on that gig both from Greek Magazines, as well as Webzines and the radio.

In October 2008 KINGDRAGON decide to release on their own expenses 500 factory-cut copies of the EP - FIRE IN THE SKY comprising 4 songs: 1) Fire in the Sky, 2) Man Of Yesterday, 3) Hold On 2 Love and 4) Lovely Lady. The EP is sent to producers around the world (40 countries) and receives the best reviews for a self-financed release!!

Following the release the band appears once again in front of the Athenian audience on 23 October 2008 this time supporting the legendary FIREHOUSE!! 2 words: SOLD OUT! The superb audience responded to the call and gave that special hard rock night a “magic” touch! KINGDRAGON’s performance was excellent and the already familiar with the songs crowd participated in the show! A Great night!!

November 2, 2009 and KINGDRAGON was asked to appear live and support the legendary band HOUSE OF LORDS and also celebrate the group's 3rd year anniversary.

Having received exceptional live reports from the media, the band is contacting with promoters and producers from various countries (Germany, Great Britain, Australia, Japan, Switzerland, USA, etc) in order to promote KINGDRAGON to the Hard Rock audience around the globe, as well as to find the producer and the record label that would release the first Full Length Album of the band. The band’s already in the studio mixing the 12 new songs, candidates for their 1st album named "Hide The Sun"!!!

In July 2013 KINGDRAGON signed with Retrospect Records / USA, for Release & Worldwide Distribution.

The album "Hide The Sun" was recorded and mixed in digital and also in an analog version (for vinyl). The final recordings lasted a year and production was of great interest because the sound of KINGDRAGON includes loud guitars along with many backing vocals and several keyboards. Their sound is simultaneously strong and melodic. Can you feel the dragon's breath?

Tracklist: 1.Last Time, 2.Burn It Down, 3.Hide The Sun, 4.Shout, Very Loud, 5.Only Winter, 6.Victim Of Love, 7.Asian Star, 8.Living For Tomorrow, 9.Judgement Day, 10.Dreams Are Broken, 11.Man Of Yesterday, 12. Live For Rock

Band Members
George Aspiotis: Vocals / Keys 
Anastasis F.: Guitars
Mark Kontopidis: Drums
Andrew Roumeliotis: Bass

Websites:
http://www.kingdragon.gr/
https://www.facebook.com/KINGDRAGONBAND
http://www.reverbnation.com/kingdragon
http://twitter.com/kingdragonband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kingdragon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.