King solomon refers to at least three artists:

1. Reggae DJ in the 1980's
2. A rapper
3. A reggae group out of the Madison, Wisconsin area.
4. A soul artist
5. Blues Artist from Mississippi

Louisiana Blues and Hot Lick Guitar, blues that tell stories of heartbreak, desperation, and renders a painting of real life that everyone can relate to.
Genre: Blues: Blues Vocals 
Release Date: 2004 
http://www.cdbaby.com/cd/ksolomon/from/scottp

KING SOLOMON-BLUES TAKE ONE

This is the debut album for Johny B. Willis, aka, King Solomon. 

Johny B. Willis was born on October 14, 1956, to Casey and Christine Willis in Tutwilier, Mississippi.

Johny's parents were poor cotton pickers in rural Mississippi who lived in a small rundown house about 80 miles southeast of Memphis, Tennessee.

Casey and Christine separated when Johny was one and a half years old. Six months later Christine left Mississippi and moved to St. Paul, Minnesota hoping for a better life for herself, Johny, and his older brother and sister. Johny's grandmother gave Christine her life's savings of $500.

00 dollars to start out on her new life.

Christine remained on welfare for five or six years after moving north for a new start.

Casey Willis was found dead in the Mississippi River about seven months before he was to go up to be with his family again.

Little Stevie Wonder was an early influence that inspired Johny's desire to play music. Johny also had two uncles who played and sung music, and an aunt who wrote songs. Johny was very proud and happy when his mother bought him an Imitation electric guitar when he was twelve years old.

Bass guitar is Johny's instrument of choice; although, he also plays some keyboard and lead guitar.

Johny started his professional career at age 23 when he joined the Percy Strother band in Minnesota. Strother opened for some of the blues greats such as B B King and Koko Taylor. Johny has also played gigs with the late great Temptations.

A long musical career has taken Johny all over America, Amsterdam, Belgium, England, Germany, and Canada. It has always been his desire to have his own band.

Rockin J Recording Company also debuts its company with this album. George L. Carmouche and Ann B. Carmouche are the owners of the company, which started in 2004 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Carmouche discovered Johny's unique vocal potential while he was performing during a jam session at Swamp Mama's Blues Cafe in Baton Rouge.

Immediately after meeting, Carmouche and Willis soon learned that they were both songwriters with a love of music, approaching a spiritual plane.

A collaboration of soulful lyrics mixed with a gumbo of down home musical talent has produced what we believe is an album second to none in this genre.

A love of music with rhythm and spirituality, particularly blues, jazz, and old time rock & roll is the foundation upon which Rockin J Recording Company begins what Carmouche has high hopes will be - a new creative influence to music lovers all over the world.

Johny B. Willis is the company's first artist, and he possesses an emotional and spiritual union with the lyrics and measures produced on this debut album. Carmouche and Willis both share the connection to good lyrics and melody. Both sense that the universal energy of karma birthed their collaboration to produce Blues Take One. They also expect to present many more albums, conjured up from deep within their souls. Every song is produced with the pride of a fine craftsman.

"Lost a good thing", was written by Johny after losing his first love. Once was enough for Johny and he wants to give special credit to his new wife, Mary for her participation and patience during the production of this project. Mary performed the voice over on "Smokin That Stuff."

A special thanks to Lester "pick" Delmore for his fantastic contribution on the drums, Ian Webster for his unique sound on lead guitar, and Nelson Blanchard for first class keyboard.

It is hoped that "Pick" and Ian will join Solomon as members of the band.

The album was recorded at Techno Sound Recording Studio in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The owner, Nelson Blanchard has so many talents that were lent to this recording that they are too numerous to mention. His meticulous mixing and mastering of the final cut created a first class quality album that any of the major studios in the country would be proud to claim as their own.

King Solomon created this first production as a studio album. Look for a "coming soon announcement" for the GRAND INTRODUCTION OF KING SOLOMON'S OPENING GIG.
http://www.cduniverse.com/productinfo.asp?pid=7163821 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/King+Solomon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.