King Snyder is a rock band formed in 2001 from Elmira, NY.

Taken from their Myspace page:
Formed in the fall of 2001 King Snyder is an ultimate reunion of friends and a natural progression for these talented musicians, showcasing their mature technical capability as well as their sincere and intense love for music. There is an incredible energy present as the band works together creating songs that forge a new sound, integrating the original styles that each member of the band is known for.

Vocalist Brad Baker radiates emotionally charged lyrics, delivering them with a vehemence that is contagious. Brad takes you into his world, drawing audiences to a roar with his passionate ferocity and rage. Rhythm guitarist Seth Kellys vicious riffs, powerful chord structures, and thunderous tone provide a killer swoon to Brad's lyrics and intensity. Seth and Brad have been writing and recording together for over ten years. Their friendship, brotherhood and deep spiritual connection is undeniable and clearly evident when seeing them together on and off stage. Lead guitarist Chris Couse has an untamed style that provides a mysterious dynamic spontaneity keeping their audience on the edge of its seat. Taking more of a natural, organic approach, his sound and arrangements are refreshingly unique and tastefully crafted. Bassist Jimi Phelps and drummer Jeff Hulslander, together strike decapitating grooves and pounding rhythms, breaking through like a jackhammer while tying this fierce sonic electricity to an ironclad backbone. 

Along with originality and great sound, their explosive stage show provides an almost intimidating platform for their compelling political message. Promoting a non-conformist, anti-war, anti-fascist theme, King Snyder rages against controlling pundits, unjust military action, and corporate bloodsuckers, as illustrated in songs such as "Burning Flags", "Revolution Rising", "America Inc.", and Pacify. Beyond their political points of view, much of their lyrical content delves into thought provoking social issues such as drug addiction, mental illness, violence, sexuality, and religion. 

As active off-stage as they are on, King Snyder uses their musical influence to create large benefit shows to support local youth foundations and organizations. Teaming up and sharing the stage with national touring acts such as Overkill, Prong, Ill-Nino, All That Remains, Beyond The Embrace, Breaking Benjamin, Clutch, Brand New Sin, Dog Fashion Disco, Bad Acid Trip, Lollipop Lust Kill, and Tub Ring, as well as countless local and regional bands. No stranger to the touring lifestyle, King Snyder is a powerhouse driven to create illustrious shows for die-hard fans all year round. 

Within the last four years, King Snyder has recorded and released four demos, eight music videos, and distributed nearly 20,000 promotional copies regionally. King Snyder keeps their fans satisfied by inviting them into their world and rewarding them for staying. It is almost guaranteed that at every King Snyder show you can count on the band tossing free shirts and other merchandise to their loyal crowd. It is also traditional for the band to hang out before and after every performance in order to meet and greet their friends and fans, strengthening the bond that makes their die-hard following a family

In a nutshell, King Snyder is the real deal. Five true friends writing, recording and performing music, having a great time and sharing their passion and creative vision with anyone and everyone willing to open their senses and psyche to a new sonic revolution.

Members:
Brad Baker - Vocals
Chris Couse - Guitar
Seth Kelly - Guitar
Jimi Phelps - Bass
Jeff Hulslander - Drums

www.kingsnyder.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/King+Snyder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.