There are multiple artists with this name.

1. - London-based experimental electronic producer and recording artist. Signed to Hyperdub in 2017.
Klein is a multi-disciplinary artist living and working in London. Her catalogue of releases include: Frozen (self-released), Lifetime (ijn inc., 2019), cc (self-released, 2018), Tommy (Hyperdub, 2017), Lagata (self-released) and Only (Howling Owl, 2016). She was hand selected by Bjork to tour with her (2018) and has collaborated with the likes of Mica Levi, Caroline Polachek, Laurel Halo, Wu Tsang, Josiane M.H Pozi, Diamond Stingily and numerous times with the Turner Prize winning artist Mark Leckey, who opened for her at her Camden Underworld show (2020).

Klein has been commissioned for performances at noteworthy art institutions such as the Serpentine Gallery, Barbican, MoMa New York, Gavin Brown's Enterprise (NYC), Art Basel, Southbank Centre and Unsound festival among others and has also directed theatre musical Care (London ICA, 2018), of which she is turning this into a full length film to be released later in 2021. She is currently exhibiting a solo show titled e45 at the Cabinet Gallery until 14 August. ’She was an inaugural winner for the Daphne Oram award (2017) and received a fellowship in experimental music by the Arts Foundation (2018).

2. - German rock band.

Klein released its debut record 'the next small thing' in May 2006. The soundscapes on 'The next small thing' emerge from small rooms as well as big studios. During a stay at the seashore in northern germany, Lutz Nikolaus Kratzer and patrick Müller met to set sail for a new project that did not yet have a name. When they both got on a train it was with a computer and a laptop, several Instruments such as dobro guitars, bass and percussion instruments. The heavy luggage soon was set up in a cosy living room in St.Peter Ording where the emptiness of the place needed to be urgently filled with music. The post season atmosphere can be heard throughout many tracks on the record, still it includes the dancefloor in some of it's pieces. The music is strogely inspired by passed away Chris Whitley. Currently, .Klein plays live shows with Karsten Deutschmann who joins in with a dobro guitar.

(taken from http://www.myspace.com/kleinmusik) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Klein">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.