There multiple artists with this name:

1. After eight years of existence, Klone has reached a personal and studied musical style. Today, the band releases a new inspired album, with various influences: Metal, Heavy Rock, Stoner, Grunge, Pop, Psychedelic. Klone finds its identity in going deeper in the command of each musical style. 

"All Seeing Eye" uses well-orchestrated arrangements, uncommon in Metal, like the use harpe, the saxophone, the chinese flute and various electro tones. The songs are sombrer, the unusual blends, the deep and oppressive atmosphere mix with progressive and melodic flights. The lyrics are in perfect edequation with the music , illustrating the concept "All Seeing Eye". A duel between the dominant and the dominated; the equilibrium between submission and domination. The disc evolues through feelings of threat, hope, self-confidence, anxiety to end in feelings of sullenness. After working during 4 months on the production with Sylvain Biguet (Trepalium, Comity, Mistaken Element) and J.P Bouquet (Lofofora, Gojira, Watcha) for the mastering, Klone comes back on the foreground and sets off again for a tour across France and the world!


Discography:
2003 - Duplicate
2004 - High Blood Pressure (EP)
2008 - All Seeing Eye
2010 - Black Days

2. Self-proclaimed "Soviet Block Industrial Rock" band which released their second album, The Unstoppable Momentum Of Freedom, in 2005 with the aid of Bile guitarist Dave Sussman.

3. Klone is an electronic music artist, released his debut EP "The Push Effect" on Muti Music label. Klone has taken full advantage of this environment producing edgy music with synth leads that are both melancholy and pretty, sitting over tough beats and basslines that growl as much as they whomp and groove. He produces dubstep and glitch-hop tracks.
http://www.myspace.com/klone7even

4. Klone is an Italian hardstyle project with tracks released under the Green Force label. The members of the project are producers in the Italian label and publishing company Arsenic Sound Srl and its sublabels. The members are: Antonio Donà, Cristiano Giusberti, Luca Antolini DJ, Mauro Farina, Paolino Nobile, Riccardo Tesini. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Klone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.