Two years after a very promising demo, KLOOTZAK deliver their first full-length album on ARMEE DE LA MORT Records, which actually is a division of LEGION OF DEATH Records from France, a label that you surely know if you're into the underground metal scene...
From the artwork, made by Hervé MONGEAUD who also worked with IRON MAIDEN, you can get an idea of the musical content... Old-school/traditional Heavy-Metal style ? Right ! The french band deliver here 9 very convincing songs taking influences from the Heavy-Metal side and bands like IRON MAIDEN, JUDAS PRIEST, RUNNING WILD, MANOWAR and ICED EARTH (listen to the guitar works, this will remind you of that band !) and some from the US Thrash-Metal school and bands like METAL CHURCH, HEATHEN, OVERKILL, TESTAMENT, FORBIDDEN... The mix is really coherent & doesn't take long to make you bang your head ha ! Vocally speaking, the influences are without a doubt Bruce Dickinson & Matt Barlow... so I guess you can't get a heavier band, right ? Songs you should check out are in my opinion  "Seeds Of Wrath" which opens the album with a very good mid/fast tempos, really catchy song, mixing aggressiveness & melody in a good way... "Hell vs Hell" has a great simple but so efficient intro that you can't stay indifferent - based on mid & fast tempos too and still that sense for melody and great guitar parts... "Way To Battle" is my absolute fave.. so heavy, so epic, based on fast tempo with killer backing vocals and awesome guitar parts again - kinda hymn to all Metal Warriors ! I don't mean the other songs are not so good, not at all, they're all in the very good Heavy-Metal vein that will please all fans of the previously mentioned bands... Now it's up to you to see if you want another old-school good metal album or if you prefer something new & innovative... Definitely my choice is made, Heavy Metal is Heavy Metal and I LOVE it, so I won't spit on another old-school metal album that will bring me great sensations even if this doesn't bring anything new to the style, that's NOT what i want or need to feel satisfied - and HERE, with KLOOTZAK, satisfied I am!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Klootzak">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.