Knave are from Johannesburg, South Africa, they've got a Facebook Fan page and a Myspace Page.  The lineup consists of Christopher Steenkamp (vocals), Jean-Yves Martin (guitar), Louis Du Pisani (bass) and Michael Rorke (drums).

The definitive of Knave is that they are hard working and their principles are true and honest. They stamp their mark into the minds of people that are open, different and who do not need to mask their identity by trends but pride themselves on individuality, they appeal not only to youth as a form of energetic release and enthusiasm but they’ve created a platform for older generations to appreciate. This has formed a passionate Knave following and fanbase.  

Since the official release of their debut album “Polarity” in late July 2007 Knave has permanently been in the spotlight receiving a lot of public attention. Knave has had interviews, reviews, features and appearances in almost every major media publication including People Magazine  ●  Mense Magazine ●  5FM  ● MK  ● Strum TV  ● SABC2 Da ka  ● FHM  ● Purity  ● The white padded cell  ● Blunt  ● Tom-X  ● Make some noise ● RSA-UK.com  ● Fractal metal  ● Fireangeldesign  ● Underground press  ● blogs.24.com  ● Radio today  ●  Randburg Sun  ●  Overtone SA   ●  UJFM  ●  TUKS  ●  Valley radio  ● A live acoustic performance on DSTV’s “Go Rock”  ● A live performance on 5fm’s Live @ 5 …and many more. 

Knave’s first singles toped University radio station charts country wide but they found their break into the commercial market with a single titled “Taunt & Tether”, the track was first featured in a promotional advert for the hit series Prison break season 3, thereafter the track made its way onto 5fm’s Hi5@5 where it stayed on the charts for well over three months and climbed its way up to the no1 spot.  

Since the success of the hit single and the success of the album Knave has toured nationally and headlined a number of venues throughout South Africa. They have shared the stage with some of SA’s biggest acts including some international acts such as Underoath and Carcass. They have also played some of South Africa’s largest festivals including, EA sports 24 hour rock and ride, Ramsfest in Capetown, Witchfest in Natal, Seasons Wither and Lucky fish.  
All of this is only set to grow with the release of their debut music video entitled, “Diagnosis” currently on rotation with MK and with there next radio single titled “Say”. 
Future prospects

Knave will be opening for international band Devildriver in November 2008, have been confirmed as a headline act for Woodstock 10 at the end of November, they will be releasing their 2nd album early in 2009, and they are planning local and international tours for 2009. 
 
 
 

Sponsors and endorsements:

MTN Explode  ●  Volcom  ●  Jagermeister  ●  Music connection   
Equipment:

Shure  ●  Schecter  ●  Gibson ●  Mesa Boogie ●  Hughes and Kettner  ●  Fender ●  Ibanez  ● Cort  ● Pearl ● Zildjian  ●  Wuhan  ●  Paiste  ●  AA Meinl  ● Sabian ● Evans  ● Remo  
 

Some press feedback: 
 

5/5 Stars - Polarity - Knave’s mammoth of a debut album is a proper South African hard-rock juggernaut.

- Gordon Laws (FHM) 
 

With "Polarity" Knave have proven themselves to be musicians, riff-masters and composers of note. A brilliant debut, dudes - well done!

      - Jo from Joday 
 

      5/5 Stars - I recommend this should be a part of anyone's CD collection

      - Manet Fernandez (The white padded cell) 
 
4/5 Stars - Knave has come from out of nowhere to deliver probably one of the best albums to come out of this country this year

      - Neil van Zyl (Fireangeldesign.co.za) 

2005 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Knave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.