After an intense drinking session and a heated discussion about music, Alex and Patrik came to the conclusion that it was time to start up a band. The idea was to use their influences to create their own unique sound in the metal world. After about a month of unsuccessful searching for the missing two members of the band, Lead Guitarist and Singer Alex Froese remembered two impressive musicians, whom he had seen while playing in a band contest in his former band. And so it came to be that the original line-up of Knockdown Industries was Alex, Patrik, Carol, and original drummer Chris. They immediately began writing songs, playing gigs, and building up a fan-base.

In the summer of 2008, the band recorded their first EP, which was four songs long, and was recorded, mixed, and mastered in the studio from Henning Pauly.

One year after the band’s formation, drummer Chris decided to part ways and persue a different type of music. After only a week, the band found Freddy Kessler – a drummer who would fill the void from Sept. 2008 to June 2009.

During this time, the band won an internet contest, and was invited to play as openers for the world-famous death metal bands Amon Amarth, Legion of the Damned, and Obituary during the Full of Hate European tour in March of 2009.

Twelve songs and another summer later, the band finished producing their self-titled debut CD. The search was then on to find a suitable drummer to fit the band.

After grueling months of try-outs, Alex, Patrik, and Carol were excited to invite Julian Maurer into the line-up. This piss drunk booze-hound fits in perfectly; and the band is now back rehearsing and awaiting many upcoming shows in 2010.

Current Line-up:
Alexander Froese - Lead Vocals/Lead Guitar
Patrik Schneider - Rhythm Guitar
Carol Machura - Backing Vocals/Bass
Julian Maurer - Drums

Former/Past Members:
Christopher Schmitz - Drums
Freddy Keßler - Drums

Discography:
EP from Hell  EP, 2008
Selftitled           LP, 2010 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Knockdown+Industries">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.