1. Knock Out je sarajevski rock bend. Snimili su jedan studijski album pod nazivom ''Jednom kad sve ovo...''. 

Članovi grupe

Nermin Puškar - vokal, klavijature, akust, prateći vokali, gitara 
Nihad Malićbegović - bubnjevi 
Ahmed Osmić - bas gitara 
Edin Bihorac - klavijature 
Emir Jugo - gitara 

2. Knock Out is a rockband that was founded in 1993 by Yogi József Lénárd and Sándor Varga both ex-members of Compact Cluj. They were joined by Axl Ferenc Szabó (bass guitar) who was replaced later by Öcsi István Novák. 

Their first album Mit hoz a holnap? (What’s tomorrow bringing?) was recorded at the Taurus Studio in Cluj-Napoca and edited first by Mirexim, then by Dancs Market. The trio accepted many invitations received from Transilvania and Hungary. The most important concerts that took place out of the country were Rock Kristály Díj Budapest ’94 (where they got into the final), Eurowoodstock Budapest Diáksziget ’94, Rocktóber Békéscsaba ’96. In this period the band joined Moby-Dick, Hobo Blues Band and Edda Muvek on their Transilvanian tours.

In 1996 Öcsi Novák leaved the band and his place was taken by Simi Attila Simon. Simultaneously Attila Varga (rythm quitar) also joined the band.

After the anniversary concert in 1998 the drummer Sándor Varga decided to establish in Hungary. He was replaced in 1999 by Cristian Varga who brought along with him one of his ex-colleagues, the bass guitar György Miklós.

In May 1999 the band withdrew into the studio and recorded its second album called Második kiütés (The second elimination). It appeared in September edited by Dancs Market Records: 10 songs on audio cassette and 12 on CD. Besides the Kolozsvári vándor (The traveller from Cluj), Távcsövem (My telescope), Vérig Blues (Blues till blood) and Nincsen hibád (You’ve got no flaws), the public also goes crazy about Nektek (For you) that was taken over from Metropol. After the album got on the market a number of superconcertes were organized in Cluj-Napoca, Târgu-Mures, Sfântu-Gheorghe, Târgu-Secuiesc, Miercurea Ciuc and Odorheiu Secuiesc. The record was acknowleged both by the Transilvanian and the Hungarian media. At its promotory concerts was already present the quitar player Gula Olivér Végh who has also been an exceptional sound engineer.

In the springtime of 2000 Knock Out was the lead band at the Rocktoborzó Festival organized by Radio and Televison of Cluj. In the meantime the drummer Cristian Varga opened his own audiomastering studio. That took more and more of his time therefore he was replaced by Gábor Gindele.

„You ought to be a hell of a rockband to sing in Hungarian in Romania and to get to the third album”. With these words announced Csaba Zilahi, the „media supporter” of the band the appearence of the album A 3. Menet (The 3rd Round) on the music pages of the Krónika newspaper in November 2002. The songs were recorded at the Glas Transilvan Studio in Cluj-Napoca and appeared on the market thanks to the Euro Music publishing house. The brand new Knock Out-songs Sörnapok (The days of the beer), AC ko DC (AC ko DC), Ahol a Motorosok (Where the Motorcyclists) and Meglépett Piroska (Little Red Riding Hood wipped off) were presented at the beginning of 2003 in the Romanian towns inhabited mostly by Hungarians.

In December 2003 was offered for sale the selection album Aranyöv (The Golden Belt) which contained 13 reinstrumeted songs and was edited by Euro Music.

Because of the recordings and the continuous concerts The 10 Years’ Jubilee Concert of Knock Out was postponed until February 28th, 2004. This took place in the Concert Hall of Radio Cluj and it also was the promotory concert of the Aranyöv album.

Yogi József Lénárd (voice, quitar, composer, lyricist), György Miklós (bass quitar, voice), Gula Olivér Végh (quitar, voice) si Gábor Gindele (drums) who were steady members of the band for four years now filled their fans with joy by organizing concerts and participating at festivals and town festivities.

In 15th March, 2005 the band performed at the Tranzit House in Cluj-Napoca. Here appereared for the first time alongside of the band the violonist and keyboard player Attila Péter.

In May the band participates at the charity concert in Satu-Mare organized for the victims of flood from Timis county. In December they organize the Santa Rock-Claus Concert where they present their brand new songs: Jó reggelt, Erdély (Good morning, Transilvania) and Engedd, hogy érezzem (Let me feel) letting this way everyone know that the band has begun the work for the fifth Knock Out-album. 

In 2006 the history of K.O. will continue successfully! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Knock+Out">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.