KOAN Sound is an electronic music production duo from Bristol, United Kingdom. The duo consists of Will Weeks and Jim Bastow. The name is taken from the word kōan. A track from the Max Out EP is titled "One Hand Clap" - a reference to a well-known kōan with the implied answer of silence, an element used in their music to draw extreme contrast.

The duo cite bands such as Rage Against the Machine and Incubus as early influences. In 2005 the duo began to explore electronic music through artists such as The Prodigy and Noisia. They initially gained recognition as Dubstep producers, with earlier popular tracks including "Akira". Some of the duo's productions, such as "Funk Blaster" and "Sly Fox" draw some jazz influences, as seen in Sly Fox's starting drumline and synths.

The duo have since released music on various labels including Inspected and OWSLA, and have worked with a number of other artists, including producer Asa and singer Ed Sheeran.

On 23 May 2011, KOAN Sound released the Max Out EP. The release was seen by many as a turning point in their production, gradually moving away from the dubstep template of their earlier music and displaying a wider range of styles.

On 1 November 2011, the duo released the Funk Blaster EP on Skrillex’s label OWSLA. The EP reached number 1 in the Beatport releases category.

During 2012, KOAN Sound performed across Europe and North America. They supported Skrillex alongside Diplo and others on the "Full Flex Express Tour" in 2012.

On 4 September 2012, The Adventures of Mr. Fox EP was released. The release includes remixes from Reso, Neosignal and Opiuo. A remix of "Introvert" by Vexisle, a duo of KOAN Sound's frequent collaborator Asa and Kursa, was released soon after as a free download.

On 22 October 2013, the duo's collaboration EP with Asa, Sanctuary, was released through Inspected in collaboration with OWSLA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/KOAN+Sound">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.