There are two bands sharing this name;

Koester (Belgium, 2007 - present)

Koester started as a raw Black Metal band but evolved through the years into something more defined. 

In 2008 they gave their first shows, combining Shoegaze with clean interludes, with a Black Metal basis. 
With their first release 'De Innerlijke Gevangenis' released in February 2010 they try to gain the attention a bigger audience, of different subcultures into one. 

Koester is heading towards a new line of lyrical themes which evolved into the last years of this music genre. Dualism, symbolism and modern depression are but few of the subjects that call to the attention of their songs and live preformances.

Current line-up:
N.: Guitar
Antediluvian: Guitar & Vocals
Verborgen: Bass 
Ashtoroth: Drums & Keys

 - - -

Koester (USA)

Brooklyn based Koester was fronted by singer/ songwriter Steve Koester, formerly of Punchdrunk and currently moonlighting with Maplewood. Alan Weatherhead — known for his work with Sparklehorse, The Comas & Camper Van Beethoven — produces and plays pedal steel, moog and strings. Koester has released two highly acclaimed CDs on Pitch-a-tent Records, David Lowery’s label out of Athens, GA. Oh! Turpentine (2000) and The High Highs, The Low Lows (2002) both received rave reviews and placed in the top 50 on the CMJ college radio charts. The band has honed its slow-burning live show over the past several years, playing with the likes of Sparklehorse, The Wrens, Crooked Fingers, The Hold Steady and a host of others.

“Losers Weepers” is the third Koester CD (as of yet unreleased) from Koester. Sonically, it is both innovative and direct. Lyrically, it is a tour-de-force. The songs stake out new musical territory, while echoing the best of American rock music: Bob Dylan & the Meat Puppets, Harry Nilsson & Spoon, Townes Van Zandt & Grandaddy.

In 2008, Steve Koester formed Two Dark Birds (see http://www.TwoDarkBirds.com)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Koester">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.