"The Music Industry needs more people like Kog"
- Alan Raw, BBC Raw Talent

Brazen poet/prophet/visionary...cursed and condemned. Torn from the ashes of civilisation circa '94 and sprung headlong into a world of narcotic bliss and nightmares...
...the music speaks of pain and suffering, but above all...a will to survive against all odds...

SPONSORED BY
WWW.MOORCROFTSTUDIOS.CO.UK

Cutting his teeth in the underground scene of Leeds in the early 90’s as guitarist/vocalist for popular grunge-revivalists “Bruised”, Kog’s first impromptu gig as a solo acoustic act was filling in for an extreme metal band who had failed to turn up. Escaping relatively unscathed, the long and arduous path of musical evolution has since led to one of the most intriguing and original singer-songwriters on the Yorkshire circuit.

Kog has always stood out as a performer in his own right, whether performing solo or as a member of Yorkshire bands such as notorious DIY punk outfit “The Dead Pets” and Bradford’s theatrical dandies “Rent”.

Selected as the first ever guest performer at national band competition “Bright Young Things” 1999 Leeds Finals, Kog performed to great acclaim in front of a 250 strong crowd at the now legendary “Duchess of York” in Leeds, the organisers praising his unconventional tunings and ease of rapport with the audience (if a little surreal at times). Following this, all 500 copies of limited edition demo “Burning Love (only in Hebden Bridge and all over Australia)” were taken up within 2 months, mostly on the strength of the title track “Wish”.

Staying close to his roots Kog opted to stay with the underground scene, performing solo and with his band “The Screaming Kog Experience” alongside acts such as Helen (fronted by no.1 selling artist Corinne Bailey-Rae), Motive (later becoming Sony’s “Stateless”) and Bodixa (Energy Records (via Universal)).

In 2001 Kog landed a place as guitarist for Dewsbury based “Moonpump”, Whilst Yorkshire fanzines described Kog as “A spaced-out genius on electric guitar”, the band attracted interest from the likes of Independiente (home of Travis), and performed alongside Embrace.

In 2002, the producer of John Squires (The Seahorses) gave rave review of Kog’s expressive and flamboyant electric guitar style stating that John had “better watch out!”.

2003 saw Kog embarking on a nationwide DIY tour with “The Dead Pets”, clocking up 43 tour dates over a 55 day schedule and performing alongside The Damned, GBH and The UK Subs. The album “Revenge of the Village Idiots” received excellent media reviews, most notably 4 out of 5 stars in Kerrang! and Metal Hammer. Festival appearances followed, including The World Mountain-board Championships (alongside Senser), Punkaid 2004 (with Marky Ramone and The Beat) and The Wasted Festival at Camden Underground. The band were selected by boxing promoter Frank Maloney to record the Millwall FA Cup single, drawing national media attention from the Daily Star, Daily Sport and SKY Sports news (the single remains unreleased due to a copyright restriction on ‘B‘-side “Great Balls of Fire”).

Leaving to once again pursue his solo project in 2004, Kog returned to his roots, further honing his performance skills by the running of several successful open-mic nights and regular bookings in York and Leeds. These developed a wider audience for his work, increasing gig attendance and web hits, gaining the attention of ANTI records (Tom Waits, The Frames) who were interested in an updated version of “Wish”.

“Wish” has received over 2000 plays on myspace.com with over 700 regular subscribers as well as airplay on community radio station ELFM and BBC’s RAW TALENT.
Raw Talent's Alan Raw requested Kog for a live solo session in late 2006 and secured him a place at the prestigious “Beached” festival on Scarborough beach which Kog played with both band and solo projects on consecutive days!
Alan also offered his support and advice towards Kog setting up shop and helping fellow musicians in the local area to create networks and effectively produce and market their music, a project which Kog has since devoted most of his spare time and ability to...

In the late summer of that year, Kog appeared with “Rent”, supporting Shana Morrison (Van Morrison’s beautifully talented daughter) in Leeds, at The New Roscoe followed by head-lining slots at The Camden Barfly and in early 2007, at the prestigous Clapham Grand.

Never one to sit still for long, Kog has recently added another string to his multi-faceted bow by taking up the bass on projects with King Nothing (Sleazy 80's Hair Metallers) and ODi (Irish Singer songwriter with well crafted songs and bitter-sweet harmonies) as well as offering consultation services to other local and national musicians...
(Anyone interested in this service should mail direct through myspace or click here for hotmail)

The future looks bright and prosperous for Kog, whose confidently quiet and professional approach, alongside his regular gigging and recording schedule continue to astound his peers...and all the while keeping it live and local!


"My heart glows! - This boy is Brilliant!"
- Tony K, NDN Distribution

"A One man song-writing machine, armed with guitar and writing songs about wimmen, whisky and politics that hit the nail firmly on the head"
- Rick Maiden, Moncada Rocks <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kog">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.