Japanese Hip-Hop/Trap artitst KOHH was born April 22nd 1990 in the town of Ouji in Kita Ward Tokyo City. Composing lyrics that express the realistic and often rough side of life in a raw and powerful form, he has an uncategorized style that is free of musical genres gaining immense support of mainly a young audience domestically as well as internationally.

On top of his music endeavours, he is actively involved as a fashion model on the runway, such as providing artworks that he had a core involvement in at various exhibitions, proving himself to be an artist that goes beyond that of a rapper and musician.

In November 2012, as no-name artist he released his first piece “YELLOW T△PE”. In the song “FAMILY” recorded in the 2012 release, the daily struggles of a drug dependent mother in a metropolItan city and her coming-out as an addict was portrayed in a raw and realistic way that had listeners wanting more.

In August 2013, he released his second mixtape called “YELLOW TAPE 2”. The song “JUNJI TAKADA” was introduced in Mr. Junji Takada’s radio show “Daily Paradise of Takada Junji” and gained wide spread attention.

In February 2014, he was featured on the digital media platform VICE which holds viewership over 30 countries. It was VICE’s first feature on a Hip Hop artist from Japan.

In July 2014, he released his 2nd album “MONOCHROME”. This was his first album that was released and turned heads when it was released due to the sequence of releasing the second produced album first. This release ranked 6th in the iTunes overall album chart and 1st in the Hop Hop/ Rap category, an immense feat for a new artist. In October 2014, he was the show model for FACETASM, a fashion brand by Hiromichi Ochiai featured on the Mercedes Benz Fashion week Tokyo.

In January 2015, he released his 1st Album “Kuchinashi”. It ranked 1st on the iTunes overall album chart and 1st on the Hip Hop/Rap charts. In the same month, he took part in the song “It G Ma (feat. Jay Allday, Loota, Okasian, KOHH)” by Korean artist Keith Ape. The music video was a hit worldwide with over 1million views within the first month of release. As of April 2016 the view counts have exceeded 21million. In June 2015, he released his third mixtape “YELLOW TAPE 3”. On October 28th 2015, he released his third album “DIRT”. Upon the release of the music videos, there was a tremendous reaction.

In December 2015, at LIQUIDROOM in Ebisu Tokyo, the tickets to his event “DIRT” CONCERT & GALLERY was sold out within 1 minute.

In March 2016, he was part the line-up of FUJI ROCK FESTIVAL 2016. In April 2016, he gained recognition for his artistic works in France, for which he was invited to take part in the F rench Foreign Ministry exchange meeting. In June 2016, he released his 4th album “DIRT II”

Instagram: @kohh_t20
Twitter: @kohh_t20 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/KOHH">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.