Koji (born Andrew Koji Shiraki in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, on 12 February 1987) is an American songwriter and activist.

“I think the good in people is never lost,” Koji said. “And it’s never gone from music. Music is an art form that celebrates potential. If you’re looking for it, you’re going to find it.” - February 20, 2012 interview with Gaining Ground Media.

Koji can be seen advocating with organizations such as Resolve and Invisible Children on behalf of the child soldiers being used by the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) in central and east Africa as well as Humility Now to help raise awareness about the homeless right here in the United States. His concerts feature a combination of music, storytelling, media and visual art, all aimed at empowering youth to create positive, lasting change and build community.

In 2010, Koji released four records. Seaside Sessions was a demo tape that came together in one day with producer Gabe Liberti at Seaside Lounge in Brooklyn. That spring, he hit the road with his demo in tow and almost immediately after upon returning home, Koji landed a deal with Run For Cover Records. In August, RFC released Spring Song Vol. 1 - a full-length live record tracked at intimate house shows on Koji’s spring tour, followed by Some Small Way - Koji’s first full band release. In October, No Sleep Records released a full-length 12” vinyl split with Chicago’s Into It. Over It., entitled IIOI/KOJI, which was lauded by the Associated Press as one of 2010’s Most Overlooked Albums, alongside artists like Mumford and Sons, Grace Potter and the Nocturnals, and Gucci Mane.

Koji was named one of Alternative Press magazine’s “100 Bands To Know in 2011“. He released a 12" vinyl-only split with long time friends, La Dispute, entitled Never Come Undone, which came out via No Sleep Records. The record was released amidst Koji's "Resolve Tour," where he performed in addition to sharing video and photography, collecting petition signatures and letters to congress seeking funding for the endangered LRA Strategy (it was eventually funded because of the youth advocacy community), and conducting community round table discussions to drive further into the issue of the LRA in central Africa, America's role in creating peace, and the power of an individual's voice to make change on this and any issue. His side of Never Come Undone features the song "Peacemaker" as well as Koji's take on Ted Leo's Biomusicology and was dedicated to fellow activist, Nate Henn, who was killed in 2010's World Cup bombing in Uganda.

He released "Matters" EP in 2013, and "Fury" EP in 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Koji">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.