Genre(s)
Thrash/Death/Groove Metal

Origin:United States of America (Long Island, New York Formed in 1995) 

Current label:Unsigned Status:Active


Current line-up:
Ray Truhn - Vocals
Darren Markoff - Drums
Chris Clemente - Lead/Rhythm Guitars
Brett Weatherston - Bass/Vocals
Matt Scriva - Lead/Rhythm Guitars


Biography
Formed in 1995 at the height of Alternative music's reign on the 90's. Korotory was the alternative to the alternative. From their inception Korotory was, has and always will be 100% metal and completely against the grain. The core of the band has been vocalist Ray Truhn, guitarist Gary Hoyt, and drummer Darren Markoff. From 1996-2001 Korotory recorded two demos 1996's self titled demo and 2001's Process of Elimination. The band would also play over 100 shows and share the stage with Metal giants such as Death, Nevermore, Iced Earth, and Hammerfall.

In late 2001 after six years of hard work and being completely burned out Korotory would go on hiatus.The members would go on to play in other bands such as Divine Burning Angels, Neverafter, Dust, Slow Painful Dose, and Burnt. 

In 2006 the core members decided to reform and with the addition of bassist Ryan Belmont the band picked up where they left off and began working on new material as well as re-writing some older songs and getting all the cobwebs off the classics. The boys quickly re bonded both musically and as brothers making this the most lethal, and stable line up ever. 

In 2008 the band would play 75 shows including shows with Bloodclot!(featuring Biohazard/Cro-Mags/Merauder/Pro Pain Members) M.O.D., Liferuiner,and Suicide City(Biohazard/ex Kittie members) as well as record there debut album Age of Rebellion with producer Joe Cincotta (Suffocation, Internal Bleeding, ect) @ FullForce Studios. 2009 brought the band a new member lead shredder Andy Fremder and the release of Age of Rebellion on Last Resort Records. The record was well recived across the country and around the world. With the help of Skateboard Marketing the album recieved a good amount of airplay across the US. It debut # 6 most added on the CMJ charts and would be in the top 50 for 8 weeks on both the CMJ and FMQB charts. The band also recieved a good amount of airplay on Internet radio stations around the world. On the live front the band spent 2009 playing over 50 shows with such national acts such as Pro Pain, Sworn Enemy, Vital Remains, Havok, Chthonic, Mantic Ritual, amongst others and capped off there year with a show at the famed NYC venue Irving Plaza opening for Black Metal titans Satyricon.

2010 saw the band continue it's thrash assault on the world with the release of there new album God Less America. Once again produced by Joe Cincotta. It features 8 songs that show a much more aggressive and abrasive sound blending elements of Thrash, Death, and Groove all into one steamroller of Metal Mayhem. The album was getting great reviews and was being played on many internet metal shows. The band continued to play as many shows as possible having played with Metal heavyweights Exodus, D.R.I., Malevolent Creation, Hypocrisy, Deceased, Scar Symmetry, The Empire Shall Fall(ex Killswitch Engage), Hate, Swashbuckle, Blackguard, Holy Grail, Bonded by Blood, Hexen, Rattlehead, Acrassicauda, & Generation Kill(featuring members of Exodus, Mortician, ex-M.O.D.). Unfortunately late 2010 would also mark the end of Korotory's relationship with bassist Ryan Belmont and guitarist Andy Fremder. At this point the band went on hiatus to figure out their next move.

In June of 2011 the band would add an old friend of Darren's lead guitarist Chris Clemente to the band and in August they added bass powerhouse Brett Weatherston(ex Shadowgate/Utopia Banished) making the band a 5 piece once again and making the band into the strongest line up to date. God Less America has once again picked up steam and is being featured on many internet and terrestrial radio shows around the world, sales have picked up as well as the band prepares to return to the studio for album #3. In September the band debuted the new line up to rave reviews and in October the band with 3 shows under there belt returned to Gramercy Theater opening for Warbringer, Lazarus A.D., Landmine Marathon, and Diamond Plate the show was an immense success.

In February 2012 after 17 years of blood, sweat, and metal guitarist and founding member Gary Hoyt respectfully decided to exit Korotory to focus on his family. In April he would be replaced by guitarist Matt Scriva(ex Shadowgate) The band is currently finishing its third album titled CHAPTER III: THE CONQUERING due out fall 2012
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Korotory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.