Korvus was founded in early 2004 by Sam Korvus as a solo project, and was later joined by Adam Paterson (bass) and Sam Curtis (drums) in Autumn 2004, to record an extremely raw demo tape called 'Dark Desires' using a 4-track tape recorder, which was distributed locally to build up a small fanbase. After a few months of writing and rehearsing, a second demo CD was recorded in February 2005 called 'Kingdom Of The Raven', and the following few months were spent playing in local venues. 

The release of the 'Kingdom Of The Raven' demo quickly led to Korvus appearing in Metal Hammer magazine, and supporting Theatres des Vampires and Draconian Order on their UK tour in October and November, part of which was filmed and shown regularly on 'Redemption TV'. This was followed by various other live shows while working on new material in preparation for a debut album, appearing in magazines such as 'Terrorizer' and 'Devolution Magazine'.

In Autumn 2006 it was decided that Korvus would continue as a solo project as originally intended, but with session members for live performances. Korvus then began recording the debut album 'In the Name of Lucifer', which was later to be released on Korvus Productions.

The recording of 'In the Name of Lucifer' was completed in March 2007, and officially released on September 3rd through Korvus Productions, distributed by Code7 and Plastichead Distribution. This was followed by featured articles in mainstream magazines including Terrorizer and Zero Tolerance, and various live shows in the UK with leading extreme metal acts. 

In the Autumn of 2008, Korvus recorded and released the online promotional single 'Bringer of Light', featuring a guest vocal appearance from C Edward Alexander of Imperial Vengeance, giving fans a taste of what to expect from the next release. Material for the second album is currently in working progress, and production has already begun... 

Korvus' live band have played various shows with bands such as Dark Funeral, Vader, Napalm Death, Akercocke, Endstille, Hecate Enthroned, Gallhammer, Abgott, Artisian and many more, and will be making more appearances upon the release of the second album, 'Bringer of Light'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Korvus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.