Born as the brainchild of vocalist and rhythm guitarist Gary Mungins in 1996, the idea of ‘Cranium’ (later reinvented as its current title) came from an interest in the darker fragments of the mind. Inspired by a love for music of the heavy variety and a raw ambition to make an impact in the musical realm, Gary started to experiment with his own song writing and producing. Aided with a computer and a desire to make an impact, by the end of 1999 an EP consisting of 3 songs was recorded and released on ‘MP3.com’. ‘What I am’ proving a success on the site, Gary was spurred on to write and produce more music, cranking up the volume with ‘Turned to Stone’ in 2001, and popular album ‘Evilution’ in 2005.

After a couple more years’ music-making and a few experimental performances, 2007 saw the beginning of a refreshing and innovative rock line up in the form of Kranius. Drawn together by a passion for playing (and a few friendly words of persuasion), these four Salford boys collaborated in a creation of anything but chance. Drummer Daryl and lead guitarist Simon being school friends, and lead vocalist Gary already establishing a firm and long-standing friendship with bassist Paul, the group joined together and exercised an undeniable chemistry as both friends and musicians, paving the way for Kranius to hit the top of Manchester’s metal scene.

Attracting a modest but dedicated following, Kranius have played several popular venues in and around Manchester such as The Ritz, The Roadhouse and most recently they headlined at Club Academy. Continually refining themselves and gaining popularity within Manchester’s ever-expanding rock scene, Kranius are a fireball of talent and are a group NOT to be missed. As well as releasing a brand new single this year, the band are set to leave a mark and rock more audiences with live performances at established venues within Manchester. If you like your tunes intense and heavy, Kranius really are music to your ears! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kranius">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.