There are multiple artists with the name Krang:
1. Dutch experimental pop group
2. Australian experimental acid techno
3. Experimental project of John Murphy (also known as Kraang, Krang Music, Kranng, and Rkang)
4. Psychedelic noise rock from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
5. Serbian underground hip-hop artist
6. Chicagoland US Stenchcore
7. Czech punk rock band

1.  Krang is an experimental pop group, formed by André Manuel in 1997 as part of a theatre tour named Krang. The theatre tour results in their first album entitled "How !", full of music that could well be described as a crossover between Tom Waits' pop songs and Captain Beefharts' experimental drive.
Other bandmembers were: Adri Karsenberg, Jelle Smit and Joost Buis

In the years hereafter, another four albums have been released: Roes, Ten Aarzel, Gluut and Aait. 
After their final album, Aait (2004), there was some friction between the band members and a week after the release the band was disbanded.

Frontman André Manuel set up a new band in 2007 which got the name 'De Ketterse Fanfare'. Early 2008 this band releases a new album titled "Op Verzoek van de Goden". This album contains one new song (the titlesong) and 10 old songs in new arrangements, picked from the backcatalog of André Manuel, which spans 20 years now if you include his time with Fratsen.


2. The Australian Krang was an experimental acid techno act, comprising Matthew Bright, Franc Conn, Adam Fischer & John Prendergast, which was active from 1992 to1995  in Sydney, Australia. Founding members of the Clan Analogue collective they released various tracks on the Clan Analogue label , for Melbourne label If Records and remixes by Jammin Unit of German band Air Liquide . Finally they released the album 'Sound Trucks Massed at Dawn' on the Psy-Harmonics label in 1995.


3. John Murphy's Krang is an experimental industrial group active predominately in the early 80s. Krang's name is frequently varied on different releases also appearing as Krang, Kraang, Krang Music, Kranng, Kräng and Rkang.


4. Edmonton's Krang is a psychedelic noise rock band with one release, They Came From Planet D, out on DIY label Cassettes Records.


5. Krang (serbian underground hip hop artist) je srpski reper iz Kraljeva. Prvi album, pod naslovom "Misterija", je izdao početkom 2006. godine. Album je izdat samostalno, putem sopstvene kuće, RSF. Pre toga, već je bio zapažen zbog brojnih demo snimaka, kao i za pesmu "Srbija", za koju je snimljen video spot.

6. Chicagoland Stenchcore.
[2012 Line-Up]
Brendan - Vocals
Adam - Bass
Austin - Guitar
Devan - Drums
[Discography]
"Onward, Desolation..." Cassette (95, OOP)
"The Bog of Eternal Stenchcore" 7" (300 Pressed)
"Sounds of Death" 12" EP/LP (500 pressed)
For fans of Deviated Instinct, Masskontroll, English Dogs, Sacrilege, Hellbastard, Antisect, State of Fear, Broken Bones, Axegrinder, Discharge, Blood Spit Nights, Amebix

7. Krang is a Skate Punk Rock band from Czech Republic formed in 2015. They have released 3 albums:
* singalong
* Baddest Brain
* OK USA!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Krang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.