There are multiple artists with this name:

1.) Black Metal band from Lichtentanne, Sachsen, Germany formed in 2003. After the release of their 2011 album 'Nocebo' the band toured extensively, playing with bands like Enslaved, Horna, and Inquisition. Recording and mixing the album between 2013-2015, they released their third full-length album 'Urere' on February 25, 2016 through Eisenwald Records.

2.) KRATER is an electronic music project based on the construction of sound scapes from the canary islands using traditional instruments and nature elements that are digitally processed after. Is the result of an environment interpretation that far apart from any sign of identity from the canary islands making a new vision of the traditional elements through an electronic music format

This project pretends to manipulate rutine daily sounds to adapt them to a new musical environment open to experimentation and evolution of different electronic music styles without concentrating in any one in particular. KRATER is composed by Luis Ortiz. Cristobal Montesdeoca and Raul Gonzalez in charge of the musical part and Amanda Lopez, artist in charge of transmitting through her visual art the concept of KRATER developing a similar process to the audio part with images from the canary islands

The first year of work between Barcelona and Berlin have been very productive completing their first album called Harmonic Tremor that will be edited by Klitekture label, a sonic and bizarre experience with influences from IDM, electronica minimal and postrock. The first concert from KRATER will be at the ceremony from QWARTZ awards of electronic music in Paris on march of 2007 sharing stage with Bjork. An strong premier rewarding an interesting and original work

3.) Blackened death metal band from Dupnitza, Bulgaria formed in 1988. They released a demo in 1991 and a single in 2001. They are also known under the name Brutal Mind.

4.) Heavy metal band from Resita, Romania formed in 1991, had a self released demo titled "Humanity" in 1992 and also split up. 

5.) Trash metal band from Biała, Poland formed in 1986, produced a demo titled "Malik Tous" in 1987, never signed on a label and also split up.

6.) Speed/Thrash metal from Krosno, Poland formed in 1987, never signed on a label, never produced anything and already split up.

This project pretends to manipulate rutine daily sounds to adapt them to a new musical environment open to experimentation and evolution of different electronic music styles without concentrating in any one in particular. KRATER is composed by Luis Ortiz. Cristobal Montesdeoca and Raul Gonzalez in charge of the musical part and Amanda Lopez, artist in charge of transmitting through her visual art the concept of KRATER developing a similar process to the audio part with images from the canary islands

The first year of work between Barcelona and Berlin have been very productive completing their first album called Harmonic Tremor that will be edited by Klitekture label, a sonic and bizarre experience with influences from IDM, electronica minimal and postrock. The first concert from KRATER will be at the ceremony from QWARTZ awards of electronic music in Paris on march of 2007 sharing stage with Bjork. An strong premier rewarding an interesting and original work

7.) Split (HR) / Berlin (DE) based experimental electronica duo. They released their first album "27 Sol" in February 2016.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Krater">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.