Krigere Wolf was born in Catania at the end of 2009 from the mind of Rick Costantino, which started this project with the aid of the guitarist Joe Cantagallo at the beginning of 2010. Later on, Frozen filled the drums as live and studio session member and finally the lineup was completed by Erik Catudella at the rhythmic guitar.
At that moment, the band was playing a pure Swedish Death metal of the '90 influenced by Scandinavian black and '80 thrash. Songwriting was influenced by epic Nordic mythology, poetic Viking stories and obscure battles.
On September 2011: Krigere Wolf sign with the Italian label Armed God Records managed by Fab "Armedgod" (from Deathwork) which will engage promotion and distribution of their music.
On Jannuary 2012: the wolves deliver their first full length album titled THE ANCIENT CULTURE TO KILL. The lineup is revolutionized with Hammerfury replacing Frozen at the drums and Francesco Bauso at the guitars in place of Joe Cantagallo and Erik Cataudella. This change is reflected also in the band playing style that becomes a black metal more direct and rough, blasphemous and barbaric.
On January 2013: Victory of Satan's Warriors single is out, which contains two tracks of pure Bestial Black metal. Here figures the collaboration of Azmeroth (from Heretical) at the lead guitar in the song "Glorification of the black angels".
On April 2013: Krigere Wolf announce Riccardo Grechi as studio session member at the drums as they start working on their second album titled SACRIFICE TO VALASKJàLF which will be completed in October 2013.
The lineup for this album is composed by Azmeroth once again at the lead guitar, Francesco Bauso at the rhythmic guitars, R. Grechi at the drums and Rick Costantino as bassist and singer. The songs are mixed by Alberto Destasio at the"Mirage Studio" of Catania and then mastered by Magnus "Devo" Andersson from Marduk at Endarker Studio in Sweden. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Krigere+Wolf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.