For almost a decade Texas based band, Krigsgrav, has been evolving from its inception of misanthropic, raw black metal to a continual expanse of avantegarde existentialism.

Formed in the Autumn of 2004 by multi instrumentalist David Sikora (Vortigern) and vocalist Christopher Sweigart (Blutjager), the initial intent of the band was to create music that would serve as a fist to the face with no compromise. The duo recorded the first demo, As Darkness Falls Above in 2006, and the EP Arcana Imperii in 2008. Both releases were well received by fans of orthodox black metal and entertainers of all things extreme.

In 2010 the first full-length release, The Leviathan Crown, was recorded. The Leviathan Crown expanded upon the sound and scope not found on the prior Krigsgrav releases. Haunting swaths of mournful guitar melody began to embed its way into the music. This release began to showcase the evolution of Krigsgrav.

Sweigart left Krigsgrav in late 2010 to pursue studies and expanse upon territories, leaving founder David Sikora the sole task of composing Krigsgrav’s next opus: Lux Capta Est. While refining material for the record, Sikora found an adequate vocalist replacement in the form of session musician Jarrod Butler (Hrut).

The duo put iron to forge and produced a monumental slab of mournful dissident melancholy in Lux Capta Est. The album gathered greater feedback than any release prior and began to carve a niche in which Krigsgrav could call home. This album also marked the first time all lyrics were penned by Sikora.

Due to unforeseen circumstances, Butler had to exit the band in autumn of 2012. Left with the release Lux Capta Est to contend with, Sikora was determined to make Krigsgrav a functional live band. Vocalist/Guitarist J. Coleman, guitarist Corey Smith and Bassist Craig Roberts, long time friends of Sikora, were recruited to flesh out the husk of Krigsgrav and take the band to the next step of its progression.

2013 sets poised to be the year the band will be the most active in its entire history. Live performance dates have been set for October 4, 5, 6 for the “Winter is coming fest II” in Connecticut where the band will play alongside Fall of Rauros, Krieg, Cold Northern Vengeance and more. Work is also already underway with a yet untitled new album. This is all but a spark in the grand flame of the future of Krigsgrav…
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Krigsgrav">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.