The band was formed in 2001 from George Driev - bass, George Kushev - guitar and Spas Markov - drums. Later joined Zachary Shinikchiev - vocals and Nikola Ivanov - guitar.

Various clubs performances in Plovdiv follow. The group already has a lot of fans - mostly friends. They are everywhere, where five have appear and strongly support them. So, after a year of concerts and rehearsals comes time to change. Nicola left the band briefly for official duties and Spas is called for compulsory military duty in 2003. Behind the drums temporarily stood Svetoslav Nachev. At the end of 2003, Nichola and Spas return.

The last concert for Zachary is in club “XXL”. His place was taken by former lead singer of “Rappel Rack” - Dimo Petkov. Preliminary talks were held with him in December 2003 and early 2004 started rehearsals.
In 2004 appeared their new web site - www.krossfirebg.com. History, news, pictures and latest information are available for the fans.

Largest and most significant event untill then in the band’s history is invitation from Albena Tsolova (SinBSin / EAST METAL RECORDS) for supporting act of American power-metal legends “JAG PANZER” in Sofia. This was a reward for their effords during those years, which was deployed with full force on 08.11.2005 in club “Fans”. The band played about an hour, “in front of small, but high quality heavy metal audience and give a perfect opening for the metal veterans”. Excellent reviews in the press and the internet follow.

In 2006, the band warmed up once again for Austrian legends “Pungent Stench” in club “Snatch” - Plovdiv, with band from city of Burgas - “Vrani Volosa”.

From June of 2007 the band has a new member - Peter Boshnakov - keyboards, replaced Nikola Ivanov (guitar). 

In late 2007 Krossfire recorded the song “Angels Cry”, and in early 2008 - the song “Touch Of Destiny”. Records were made in “F.1Sound Studio” (www.f1soundrecords.com) in Plovdiv with sound engineer Vasil Valchev and subsequently released single “Touch Of Destiny”. Good reviews appeared, both in Bulgarian and international press.
In June 2008 concert was filmed at club “POLINERO Place”, which was released on Home DVD in November 2009 under the title” 7 years on stage “.

In 2008 and 2009 continued live performances in clubs in Bulgaria and motor fairs in the country.

In June 2009 the song “Touch Of Destiny” participate in CD compilation of the German magazine “Heavy”. It was published in Germany in the second half of the month. The song of the band is first one on the list, which gives a great advantage - each having CD will hear the song. Brief information and photo of the band were published in the magazine, along with information about the other bands in the compilation. Also, songs from the CD were played on the festival “Bang Your Head !!!”, which was held in the town of Balingen at the end of June.

In early 2010 from “HEAVY” magazine was held an interview with Georgi Kushev and Dimo Petkov, which was printed in the edition of the magazine in April. Also, review of “Touch Of Destiny” was published in the magazine “Rock Hard” in July, issue number 28.

Between October ‘10 and March’11, Krossfire recorded their debut album “Learning To Fly” in “F.1Sound Studio” in Plovdiv, Bulgaria and then mastered the material in “Master Vargas Studio” in New York, USA. The album was released on 15th of May 2011. The band embarked on their massive, more than thirty dates tour throughout Bulgaria on 15th of February 2011.

At the end of the year Krossfire signed a deal with German label “PURE STEEL RECORDS”. The album was released worldwide via label on 27th of January 2012. A lot of excellent reviews appeared in international press and online webzines afterwards.

Official Web Site: www.krossfirebg.com
Official MySpace: www.myspace.com/krossfirebg <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Krossfire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.