1. Heavily influenced by major cities that breathe industrial strength, Kryptos discovered his way into creating a unique dark sound. He specializes in dark electro and futuristic bass – the production spans in the mid-tempo field, blending organic downbeat with heavy sweeping bangers. 

2. With over a decade under their belts and considered by many to be one of the pioneers of the burgeoning metal underground in India, Kryptos has spearheaded the steady rise of Indian heavy metal over the years.

Formed in the winter of 1998 in Bangalore, India, Kryptos has always strived to create original and thought provoking music, which combines the aesthetics of 80’s thrash and pure melodic metal. Influenced by the likes of Black Sabbath, Judas Priest and Iron Maiden along with heavy hitters like Coroner, Kreator, Candlemass, Dark Tranquillity and Nevermore, Kryptos manage to channel these influences into a sound that is all their own.

In 2004, Kryptos released their debut album, Spiral Ascent, which quickly spread through the underground circuit in India as well as countries like Germany, Argentina and other parts of Europe. Featuring incredible cover art by Dark Tranquillity’s Niklas Sundin, the album was a tour de force of gritty melodic heavy metal. Bursting at the seams with classic riffs, catchy melodies and inspired songwriting, Spiral Ascent helped garner a whole new legion of dedicated fans from all over the country and other parts of the world.

With the success of their first album, Kryptos headlined scores of gigs and festivals and showed the nation why they are one of the most intense and powerful live acts to ever emerge from the Indian subcontinent.

In April 2006 Kryptos signed with Old School Metal Records from California, U.S.A and became one of the first metal bands from India to be signed by an international label. The band entered the studios later that year to record the highly anticipated follow up to their debut album and finally emerged in mid 2008 with their storming second album The Ark Of Gemini

Raising the ante in every way possible, The Ark Of Gemini bursts forth with absolute metallic power and passion. From the unbridled ferocity of lead single Heretic Supreme to the crushing behemoth Tower Of Illusions, The Ark Of Gemini is a cerebral and devastating ride through metal’s deepest recesses and celestial peaks.

While the album received accolades from all over the planet from fans and critics alike, Kryptos landed endorsement deals with Vic Firth, Mapex Drums and ESP Guitars as well as a coveted supporting slot for the mighty IRON MAIDEN at Rock In India 2009 as well as the supporting slot for Amon Amarth at the Deccan Rock Festival 2009. These were just a few of the highlights of a fantastic year for Kryptos, which also included playing to thousands of fans all over India as well as performing an incendiary 2 hour set to a rabid audience for the filming of their soon to be released DVD titled Alive In The Krypt. 

2010 promises to be a break through year for Kryptos with the release of their third album coming up on the horizon. With expectations already reaching fever pitch, 2010 will also see Kryptos embark on their first ever European festival tour where they will proudly fly the flag for Indian heavy metal and show the world that they indeed are a force to be reckoned with. 


The third album, The Coils of Apollyon was released on 18 February 2012.


Kryptos are :
Nolan Lewis (Guitars/Vocals)
Rohit Chaturvedi (Guitars)
Ganesh K (Bass)
Anthony Hoover (Drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kryptos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.