Under the name 'KUGA' the band exists from year 2003., back than the members were: Igor - Bass; Nemanja "Neli" - Guitar; Vanja - Drums; Ljiljak - Vocals;
With this lineup 'KUGA' had their first gig in a club called "HOLIDAY" (Belgrade) in July 2003.
At the end of the year 2003. Vanja and Igor left the band, and Vanja was replaced with a new drummer Dzoni.
Along with few unsuccessful tries to find a new bass player, 'KUGA' performs without the bass during the whole year 2004.

At the beginning of year 2005. the band finally finds the new bass player- Milos. Shortly after, 'KUGA' performs as a support for Franch death metal band 'BLOODY SIGN'.

At the beginning of year 2006. the original member Nemanja left the band and was replaced with a new guitar player Marko "Slayer".
The new lineup: Ljiljak - Vokals (the only original member), Dzoni - Drums, Milos- Bass and Marko "Slayer"- Guitars.
After a few months working on new songs: Nema Izlaza, Sile Zla, Debela Zena, Vecni Rat.. Kuga performs with many Serbian bands, mostly in Belgrade and in few cities in the country.

Along with taking part on a Mini Death Metal Feasival with Brazilian 'OPHIOLATRY', and Serbian bands: 'SACREMENTAL BLOOD', 'KRAMP', 'DAGGERSPAWN' ... the far most important event for 'KUGA' was sharing the stage with 'BOMBARDER', 'M.A.D. GOYA', and of course last but not the least: German Thrash metal legends 'TANKARD'!

At the end of year 2006. 'KUGA' finally records something more serious: 'LIVE DANGUBA DEMO'.

During the year 2007. the band plays in several clubs in Belgrade, Novi sad and Sombor.

In the summer of 2007. 'KUGA' performs in one of the biggest festivals in South-Eastern Europe – THE EXIT FESTIVAL. By good fortune the band performs right before the german band U.D.O. (the legendary former singer of the band 'ACCEPT').

At present the band is rehearsing the "old stuff" and working on the new material, which could be found soon on their first official album.

In June 2008. Kuga recorded a promo track ..Sile Zla.. (Force Of Evil), followed by their fifth anniversary and a concert in a famous rock n..roll club Akademija in Belgrade. At the anniversary a few very known Serbian bands took part with Kuga..s big friend and special guest – one of the five best guitar players in the ex-YU territory – Ljubisa Racic (Formula 4) from Germany.

By the end of 2008. Kuga finally entered studio and started recording their first album ..Najcrnje noci.. (Blackest Nights). This album is planned to be out in February 2009! 


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kuga">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.