David Hart - Vocals, Guitars
Luis Barra - Bass Guitar, Vocals
Virgile Coste - Drums

“You’re all prostitutes, set liars, suck on my dollar sign, I’ll feed you God in an hour!” howls David Hart, opening the wall of rhythmic chaos that is Teeth Swallower, the lead track from Kunvuk’s second album Consume Rapture. Kunvuk are back and are more unpredictable, ferocious and indignant than ever before.

After touring extensively in support of their debut album “Immute: Jackals”, the Sydney-based experimental groove metal trio retreated to their Shadow Mekanik Studios for six months to carve out their stomping and screaming sophomore punch-in-the-face. Recorded, engineered and mixed again by the band’s guitarist and singer David Hart “Consume Rapture” represents a leap forward in intensity and volatility for the band’s sound.  

“When we started writing the new record we wanted to bring into focus our rhythmic strengths – writing bigger grooves, ripping out crazier time signatures and twisting bone-rattling tempo shifts to mangle song structures in the most moving and devastating way” comments Hart. “Basically we wanted to draw into sharper focus the essence of Kunvuk and the sounds we are working on.” The band, rounded out by bassist Luis Barra and drummer Virgile Coste, do just that on Consume Rapture creating a monster that stomps around and around in your head long after the record stops.  

The album was mastered by Alan Douches at West West Side Music (DEATH, SWANS, MASTODON, CONVERGE, BARONESS, THE DILLINGER ESCAPE PLAN, CLUTCH) in New Windsor, New York. The man responsible for bringing so many great albums to the finish line was more than happy to lend his skills to sculpting the final sound of Consume Rapture. As Hart states “Alan was an easy choice for us – we’ve admired his work for a long time so it was a dream to have him kick this record to the next level. The intensity of the songs demanded his extensive knowledge and the result is pure and dynamic aural overload.”

The nine tracks that form Consume Rapture contain the band’s most diverse material yet; demonstrating Kunvuk’s complex and contrasting sound scapes.  Whether it be through hyperventilating thrash crashing into back-breaking breakdowns (“Become Monster”), agitated structures interbred with downright hostility (“Rapture Pt 1”) or colossal rhythmic structures scarred with angular discord (“Teeth Swallower”, Taped”) the album pumps and breathes in some of the most unexpected, energetic and captivating ways.
In conjunction with the release of Consume Rapture, Kunvuk have announced their support for the “Save The Tasmanian Devil Program”. For the duration of the album cycle Kunvuk will donate 50% of profits made from the sale of the album to the cause to raise awareness and funds for the plight of this endangered Australian animal. “Devil Facial Tumour Disease threatens the existence of this incredible animal and we are putting our money where our mouth is to help save this most metal of all creatures. Every record you buy will not only be supporting us but supporting an Australian icon that is in danger of being wiped off the planet if we don’t act quickly.”

To spread the stomping noise of Consume Rapture Kunvuk will be taking their fierce live show to the furthest flung areas of Australia and internationally. No stranger to long jaunts across the earth, Kunvuk are sharpening their teeth in anticipation of the supporting tours for the new record. “We live for playing this music live. Many bands say that but we actually mean it. We get sick when we don’t play. We get weak when we don’t scream. A Kunvuk live show is a physical and mental exorcism. We load in, sweat, bleed, howl and then load out for the next show. We aren’t here to fix our hair and pat each other on the back. We are here to explode and that is all we are interested in.”

For more information go to www.kunvuk.com or www.facebook.com/kunvuk.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/KunvuK">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.