Senzo ‘KWESTA’ Vilakazi was born 11 August 1988 to school teacher Thabsile Vilakazi, on the East Rand of Johannesburg. It was during his high school days at J.G. Strydom where the dream of becoming a rap superstar began, he was a constant irritation to his teachers for writing verses and poems during lessons but as time went on, the very same teachers started asking KWESTA to give examples of his writing by reciting whatever “student friendly” verse or poem he had for the class.

It was at that time that his first rap group ‘Ghetto Fellaz’ was formed and with the addition of another member it was changed to ‘The Juvenylz’ and two years after the group came to an end his dream elevated to the next level… to finally begin recording songs. This happened after a group of youngsters moved into the neighborhood and were trying to establish they’re own recording company, AMS.

While a relationship had began with AMS, other great moments and opportunities were also unfolding, KWESTA went on to win the MC of the month competition on Yfm’s Rap Activity Jam and also took first place on The Freestyle Kings special on ETV’s Shiz Niz. He was also actively getting his name on peoples tongues by performing at the Miss Confidence Show, The Rand Show and The Durban Beach Festival just to name a few.

With dozens of songs recorded and on stage experience under his belt, KWESTA’s demo made its way to the Buttabing Entertainment offices in April 2007 and was received with pure enthusiasm to further the relationship and add KWESTA to the label’s roster.

Since embarking on his journey with Buttabing Entertainment, KWESTA has been introduced to the life of no sleep, no rest and the complex workings of the music business. He has since traveled across the country as part of the entertainment line up and judging panel on the Sprite Hip Hoop Tour and was also featured on The Ventilation Street Tape in Association with the Sprite Hip Hoop Tour 2007, he has also taken part in the Nokia Defend Your Street campaign which saw him collaborating with Slikour & Shugasmakx (Skwatta Kamp), T’do (Zulu Mobb), Nothende and Piet Potent on the campaign’s theme song.

KWESTA has been places, is in places and is most definitely still going places. His street anthem ‘Shap Fede’ is creating a buzz and getting good rotation on local radio stations accompanied with a mixtape hosted by star Dj
C-Live available on ventilation.co.za  and his album slowly beginning to take form, Kwesta will certainly be part of your music collection in the near future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kwesta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.