Kyle has been involved in music his whole life, attending piano lessons for 8 years and taking music as a subject while he was at school. He has been brought up with music running through his blood; a fascination with electronic music production was imminent.

The immense interest he has in the production of house began a few years back when he got his hands on an early version of Dance eJay. He played around with the program for 3 or 4 years, but yearned to have the power to produce his own music from scratch. In 2006 he moved onto Reason, still producing short tunes just for fun. From there he taught himself everything he knows through continuous practice and trial and error. As time went by and his producing continued, he developed his musical style into funky-electro and fidget house.

In early 2007, when he finally got his hands on professional production software (and after a lot of positive feedback and a little gentle persuasion from one of the most talented and influential trance DJs in South Africa - James G), he made a conscious effort to break into the South African EDM industry. In March 2007, a signing to his first music label was welcomed with open arms, and his first release was made available for download.

Throughout his short career this far he has remixed, amongst many others, Tom EQs Skewer, which rose to the top 20 on the Beatport Top 100 Electro House chart. Furthermore, his remix of Terrance Dizkos Be Alright flew into the DjDownload charts, settling at number 6 on the Tech House chart. His wobbly and jazzy original 'Doubting You' also enjoyed great success, settling at number 13 on the Beatport electro chart. Support from various influential people within the SA EDM, as well as support and recognition from high profile international producers, gave him more incentive to produce more and more. He has featured on various South African dance compilations and has many others lined up for release in the near future. Furthermore, successful releases on the highly acclaimed Potty Mouth Music label have gained him more respect within the dance industry.

In the beginning of 2008 Kyle was given the chance to put his own spin on the classic tune Its A Fine Day, remixing his own personal style into the track. The release went to the DMC Buzz Chart number 1 within a week and his mix has received support from major names in the international dance industry. With Kyle placing first out of over 190 participants in a remix of Goldfish's Cruising Through, and calling the United Kingdom his new home, this prolific producer and DJ is set for big things.

Kyle has owned a pair of decks since mid 2007, and since then has played a majority of clubs around South Africa, as well as a growing number in the United Kingdom. His mixing style is smooth and well balanced, often playing a set that progresses from the funkier side of house to driving and energetic bouncy fidget. He stays on top of new content and will always bring something new to a club or event. If Kyle is to continue at this pace, there is still much ahead for this young star. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kyle+Watson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.