Kylfingar is the very first Hungarian band performing Nordic folk & viking metal. We would like to show you the life, the era, the faith, the heroic deeds of the Vikings, the beautiful Northern lands… Firstly our set contained only covers (Ensiferum, Finntroll) but nowadays we play more own songs than covers. Most of our lyrics are in Hungarian.

When we started the band our name was Asgard but then we chose Kylfingar because it is unique and has Hungarian connection. What does it mean?
Kylfings – original plural Kylfingar – was a group of Scandinavian origin, their name means "macemen" (mace, war cudgel=kylfa in Old Norse). They wandered and raided Eastern Europe with the Eastern Vikings or Varangians in the 9-11th centuries and a part of them was hired as auxiliary warriors by Kiev, Byzantium and Hungary. Hungarians knew them as Kölpények. According to the chronicles, the legendary Hungarian chief in the 10th century, Botond (his name means "maceman" in Old Hungarian) was of Kylfing origin – he beat the champion of the Byzantines, the "Greek giant" and smashed in the gate of Constantinople with his weapon...


The band was founded in the spring of 2012 by Viktor Váczi, Viktor Grócz and Gábor Kállai. The original name, Asgard was changed in early 2013 with the help of Tamás Péderi, our recent manager.

Our topics are mostly connected with Scandinavian mythology, history and culture. Our biggest influences are such Nordic and folkish bands as Ensiferum; the good old Finntroll; the masters of excellent melodies, Equilibrium and the veteran Amon Amarth but we can add many more...

So we have started learning covers, mostly by our mentioned two favourites, Ensiferum and Finntroll. In parallel with this we have also started writing our own songs, because we do not want to be a tribute band.
Krisztián Tőzsér on bass and Gergő Lakatos on guitar have joined us, so the line-up became complete. The five of us have been smashing in the rehearsal room and the covers were really good. We also composed our first music, "Út a Valhallába" ("Road to Valhalla”) and then we have been visiting the studio more and more frequently and the songs of Kylfingar were born one after the other.

Our first gig was on September 8th, 2012 in Boldog at Magyar Dal Napja festival. The successful introduction and many congratulations made us more eager. Our next shows were held in the capital, Budapest and gave us more success. We played with bands like Ankh and Elanor. We have got dozens of positive criticism; comments and mails both from abroad and from Hungary and therefore we know that we are going on the good path.

Our first album, "Halhatatlanok" ("Immortals") will be out around August/September, 2013 and we are looking for a record label to release it. Inside the normal conception the album is based on the topic of the heroic death and Valhalla and we will also sing a chant about a Hungarian saga, the story of Botond because of its connection with the eponymous Kylfings. The forerunner of this LP is a promo mini-disc with three songs called Észak Népe EP. It is available for free download here: http://uploaded.net/file/ywyin7d9 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kylfingar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.