Kyrbgrinder are one of the most talked about emerging bands in the UK.  A trio from London they play a unique style of metal that incorporates funk and several other musical genres.

Central to their rise to prominence is the outstanding musicianship of all 3 members.

Johanne James on drums has been awarded the accolade of "drummer of the year" 4 times by the Classic Rock Society. 

 Uniquely, not only is he an outstanding drummer - he is also the lead singer - a quite astonishing achievement.  As one journalist put it “a drummer this good shouldn’t be able to sing so brilliantly and a brilliant singer definitely shouldn’t be able to drum this well - to do both is world class! Try rubbing your belly and patting your head….. then do Riverdance with 
your feet and you’ll get the idea!”

Johanne is ably support by Tommy "the shred" Caris on guitars and Dave "scoop" Lugay on bass.  Together they combine to produce an absolutely blistering live performance - indeed so much so Kyrbgrinder was voted live act of the year in 2011 by Total Biker FM!. 

A relentless touring schedule has ensured that more and more people are sitting up and 
taking notice of Kyrbgrinder and 2012 will see the band playing headline sets the length and breadth of the UK as well as appearing at a whole host of Festivals in the UK including Hammerfest.  Later in the year Kyrbgrinder will also be making their first forays into Europe.

In addition Kyrbgrinder produce world class songs and their current CD  "Cold War Technology" has received brilliant reviews from far and wide.  
Here's a typical example - "The band clearly care about how they sound, with a huge and expansive production revealing every nuance of their playing which is both powerful and varied. The vocals are superb with real range and expression, tons of soul and some great melodies weaving their way through the instrumentation"   One Metal

If you do nothing else this year - go and see Kyrbgrinder live or buy their CD - music will never be the same again.  Again - let's leave the last word to a reviewer - 

If you’ve never seen them live, then you’re missing out, as thousands of Hammerfest attendees will testify to. Now get off your ass and go grind some Kyrbs, because if you don’t, you’re missing out on something VERY special indeed. My rating: 6 out of 5" 
- John Seymour  - totalbikerfm.com 
Visit www.kyrbgrinder.net for all up to date tour news and to purchase Kyrbgrinder CDs and merch.

Follow us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/kyrbgrinder and on twitter @kyrbgrinderband
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Kyrbgrinder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.