Olivia Rebecca Devine, known professionally as L Devine, is an English singer and songwriter. After signing with Warner Bros. Records, she released her debut EP Growing Pains (2017). This was followed by the release of two further EPs, Peer Pressure (2018) and Near Life Experience: Part 1 (2021). L Devine is also signed to BMG, having co-written songs for artists including Icona Pop and Rudimental.

Devine released her debut single "School Girls" in July 2017. In an interview with Nylon, she said that the song is about "how in the 'real world’, you still encounter the same bitchiness you thought you left behind at school." The accompanying lyric video for the track was made in collaboration with British designer and producer Chloe. She subsequently released an acoustic session performance of the track, which was premiered by The 405. In November 2017, Devine released her debut five-track EP Growing Pains, which was accompanied by a ten-minute visual that was directed by Emil Nava, who had previously collaborated with Rihanna and Selena Gomez. The majority of the film was shot in Newcastle.

Devine's second EP, Peer Pressure, was released on 16 November 2018 along with a short film, also directed by Emil Nava. "Peer Pressure", the lead single, opens with a line from the 1988 film Heathers, and Devine spoke about her love of the coming-of-age film in an interview with The Line of Best Fit. Devine counts Charli XCX among her fans, and Charli's backing vocals feature on the track "Peer Pressure" after producer Justin Raisen played it to the pop star, who asked to record a version of it. The single was accompanied by a music video on her YouTube channel.

The same month the EP was released, YouTube Music announced Devine had been chosen to be on their Ones to Watch list for 2019 and BBC Radio 1 added L Devine's track "Nervous" to their BBC Introducing playlist. Tmrw magazine also released a special edition issue: L Devine by tmrw, entirely dedicated to and curated in partnership with Devine, and described the artist as "an extremely exciting pop talent who we believe is destined to be a global phenomenon".

In May 2019, Devine performed at The Great Escape Festival. On 17 May 2019, she released the single "Naked Alone". In an interview, she said "I actually wrote the song nearly two years ago. That's not usually the case, usually I just write them and then they come out over the next few months, but this one I’ve been sitting on for a while, just trying to find the right time to put it out, but it’s time. In July 2019, two songs co-written by Devine were released; "Mean That Much" by Rudimental, and "Next Mistake" by Icona Pop. In 2020, Devine has released two singles: "Boring People" and "Don't Say It". The songs were followed by the release of her third EP, Near Life Experience: Part 1, released on 30 July 2021. The EP was preceded by its lead single, "Girls Like Sex". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/L+Devine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.