L' Hiver en Deuil
Mournful melancholy, bleak beauty

L'Hiver en Deuil was shaped during the winter of 2009/2010, one of the most unrelenting in years. The atmosphere of winter and the dark beauty of the surroundings of our rehearsal place helped us to give voice to our suppressed feelings through the symbolism of nature, with songs drowning in an aura of introspective black metal, combined with repeated riffs and hypnotic melodies to conjure a melancholic, trance-like state. L'Hiver en Deuil is where and when we confront ourselves with our fears, our deepest frustrations, things we cannot grasp, the perpetual search for what goes beyond existence. The thin line between life and death. Our journey started there.
Summer 2012, our line-up is complete for a while now, gathering (ex-)members from Sarin, Marche Funèbre and Gates of Argonath. We were able to compose songs with our hearts and souls, and as time passed, we felt the need to release them before moving to the next level. We soon got in touch with Phorgath (Enthroned, Emptiness), feeling that his extensive experience in producing dark and unholy music would make him a perfect ally. his Blackout Multimedia studio (Enthroned, Emptiness, Cult of Erinyes, Goat Torment,...) turned out to be the best place to record five of our rituals. Thus, we entered the studio in February/March'13 to record our debut EP.
"Ter Aarde." is foremost a very introspective work, incorporating an array of influences, from traditional black metal to post-hardcore, with the core of this release lying in mid-tempo, trance-inducing melancholic riffs. Although the music definitely stands on its own with a strong identity, parallels can be drawn to such bands as Drudkh, Svarti Loghin,Fen, Agalloch and Forgotten Tomb.
 This EP was released independently, but with the support of Consouling Sounds (Amenra, Alkerdeel, Gorath,...) through their new Agency, who will help our music find its way to the audience for the time being. We are however looking for a label for future releases, to support us in the longer run as we grow.
We are currently putting our efforts in promoting this debut release, both through gigs and online presence. An official release show on 09/11/2013 is in preparation, and others will follow. Next to that, the composition process continues, with new directions being explored. This should lead to the recording of a full-length album towards the end of 2014. 
In the meantime, we wander in darkness...  

Contact information:
lhiverendeuilband@gmail.com
https://www.facebook.com/pages/LHiver-en-Deuil/140084792712214?fref=ts <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/L%27Hiver+en+Deuil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.