L.O.S.T. is the name of more than one band: 1) a Ukrainian nu metal band; 2) a Romanian death metal band. 3) An American Shock Hip-Hop group. They all redirect here.

== L.O.S.T. (Ukraine) ==

The Ukrainian band L.O.S.T. is alternative/nu metal/female vocal band from Nikolaev (or Mykolaiv, Ukraine), formed in 2007.
https://vk.com/lost_band

== L.O.S.T. (Romania) ==

The Romanian band L.O.S.T. formed in March 2004, after one of the rehearsals of the band Abigail where three from the members were activating for many years (Vlad, Dragoş, George). After a short period of time, BB Hanneman, also former colleague with the other members, joined the band. From that time, the line-up was: BB Hanneman - guitars, vocals (ex Adrenaline, Cronos, Abigail, Icon of Sin, Magma), Vlad Buşcă - bass, vocals (ex Abigail, Tornado, Cronos), Dragoş Hălmagi - keyb (ex Abigail), George Angel Tudor - drums, vocals (ex Abigail, Dust). Starting with September 2006, a new member joins the band: Dorin Costea, a drummer that also played with bands like Kendo, Brainstrip and Deadeye Dick. He was eventually replaced in June 2011 by Victor Stoica (ex Dies Irae / Warganism) when a second guitar player also joined the band, Daniel Tudosie (ex Spectral), which was eventually replaced in 2013 by Victor Manescu (Armies Of Enlil, ex-Avatar).

Having a vast experience on the Romanian scene, of almost 20 years, which contained, among others, numerous festival awards, radio and tv appearances and 4 albums recorded with Abigail, Cronos, Dies Irae and Warganism, L.O.S.T. succeeded with its main objective, a fast impact on the underground scene, with excellent live shows and with a growing mass of devoted fans.

With the occasion of the debut show in Bucharest on November 5th, 2004, it was also released the first promo cd, of a great sound quality and artwork. The promo material is entitled “Ziua ce vine” and consists in 2 tracks (“Ziua ce vine” and “Last Breath”), recorded at Recreate Studio from Bucharest between October-November 2004. The band recorded a total of 5 tracks, which were released by Meta4 Productions as an MCD named “Last Breath” on March 4th 2005 and it had nationwide and international distribution. 

Other shows in 2005-2012 were with Novembre, Obituary, Behemoth, Dismember, Rage, Orphaned Land, Aborted, Leaves Eyes, Septic Flesh, The Haunted, Destruction, Helloween, Doro, Testament, Kreator, Sepultura, In Flames, Sodom, Hammerfall or Moonspell.

L.O.S.T. released the latest cd "Remains of Pain" on December 4th 2010. The material was produced by Razvan Alexandru from Abigail, recorded in several locations (including Musitech Production Studios and Taine Multimedia Studio), mixed at Moon Studio and mastered by Alan Douches at West West Side Music, New York, engineer that also worked with Six Feet Under, Hatebreed, Cattle Decapitation, Cannibal Corpse, Kataklysm and many others.

== L.O.S.T. (America) ==

L.O.S.T. - Loyal Order of the Shadow Tribe is a Shock Hip-Hop group from Charlotte, North Carolina. L.O.S.T. is Little Azzy, former frontman of Shock-Pop band Astrid Haven and horrorcore rapper Mr. Toxic. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/L.O.S.T.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.