LACERATED AND CARBONIZED was formed in 2006 by Jonathan Cruz (vocals), Caio Mendonça (guitars), Paulo Doc (bass) and Victor Mendonça (drums).

The band comes from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, a city that stages at the same time astonishingly beautiful settings and a murky underworld of violence and degradation almost never seen by outsiders. This innate attitude is unmistakenly noticed in every aspect of their unrelenting, visceral Death Metal.

'Homicidal Rapture', their 2011 debut album, has met with enthusiastic reactions from Brazilian most prominent media vehicles and also presented the band to the world, earning positive reviews around the globe. The outing was followed by a successful South-American tour that went through Chile, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia and Peru, in addition to great festivals in their own country together with bands like SEPULTURA, MAYHEM, BELPHEGOR and IMMOLATION.

2012 proved to be a remarkable year for LACERATED AND CARBONIZED, as the band joined the ranks of The Flaming Arts Agency in a partnership that eventually led to an extense European tour alongside VILE, gracing the stages of many festivals and meeting bands like GRAVE, MALIGNANT TUMOUR and PROPAIN on the road.

2013 will see the release of their new effort. Entitled "The Core Of Disruption", the assault brings 11 massive and innovative tracks. With a realistic approach of the concrete violence that surrounds their hometown Rio de Janeiro, LAC adds the crude insight of an underworld of drug trafficking, police abuse, corruption and parallel state militias to their lyrics, setting a undeniable tone of brutality to the album as a whole.

"The Core Of Disruption" also brought a preminent team on board. Mix and Mastering were both held by Andy Classen (DESTRUCTION, KRISIUN, TANKARD) at the Stage-One Studios. Four special guests left their mark: Felipe Chehuan & Max Moraes (Confronto), Eregion (Unearthly) and Guilherme Sevens (Painside) gave their brilliant contribution to increase the depth and raise the level of this landmark work.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lacerated+And+Carbonized">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.