In forming his own Metal band, Huma(guitar) made a dream come true that he had in mind since the early childhood. Together with Matthäus(bass), Fabi(voice), Hias(guitar) and Hias M.(drums) he founded LACK OF PURITY in 2002. 

In spring 2002 the band started rehearsing and the guys made their first 2 songs. The tunes “Hands of Death” and “Time's End” were recorded on the mini Promo Disc “Tormentors of Metal” and showed the bands's musical future tendencies: PURE FUCKING HEAVY METAL 

Lack of Purity had their LIVE-debut at the band contest Amstetten where they gained the 3 rd place. The following winter the band produced their first real demo CD “Can't turn back Time” and could get some very good response for their work. 

After a series of gigs drummer Hias M. left the band in summer 2003. Replacement was found immediately with former friend of the band Specki. Featuring the new man behind the drumset they recorded their 2 nd demo CD “Animalation” in Winter 2003. Once again it was all self-produced and fans and the press were both excited. 

2004 became a hell of a year for LACK OF PURITY. At first Peda B. seemed to take over the drum duties but didn't fit in the band properly. Then, to make the situation even worse frontman Fabi decided to leave the band. The band nearly broke up. But after some time Specki took the place behind the drumset again and even Fabi found his way back to the band. Now the band was back again and stronger than ever. In August they made the 1 st place at the Qualification of the AUSTRIAN BAND CONTEST at Planet Music Vienna , in October they put out their first DVD(filmed at a clubshow) and at the band contest Amstetten they gained the 1 st place this time. 

In early 2005 the band did a show at the Crack Up VI Festival. They appeared under the very secret name “Lords of Purity” and did a “cover songs-only” show. In September 2006 LACK OF PURITY did their greates Gig up to this time on the PRECURSORS OF ETERNITY 2 Festival, together with Bands like Mystic Circle, Agathodaimon and many local ones. This gig is said to be their best one ever. 

Since that time the guys are working really hard on their new stuff to get things ready with a new demo, live DVD and many live shows. 

http://www.lackofpurity.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lack+Of+Purity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.