Lætitia Sadier (born 6 May 1968) is a French musician best-known as the singer of the post-rock band Stereolab.

Sadier was working as a nanny when she met McCarthy leader Tim Gane  at a gig in Paris during the late 1980s. Sadier was disillusioned with the rock scene in France, and soon moved to London to be with Gane and to pursue her career. She had contributed vocals to McCarthy's third and final album. The band broke up in 1990 and she and Gane immediately formed Stereolab. For the first incarnation of the band, they enlisted ex-Chills  bassist Martin Kean, drummer Joe Dilworth and Gina Morris on backing vocals.[1]

While Tim Gane has written the bulk of the music in Stereolab, it is Sadier's singsong, alto vocals and often revolutionary lyrics (both in English and French) that have become trademarks of the band's sound. Sadier also plays keyboards, percussion, guitar (she's left-handed) and trombone.

In 1996, Sadier formed the spin-off band Monade with Pram's Rosie Cuckston. Monade released the singles "The Sunrise Telling" and "Witch Hazel/Ode to a Keyring" in 1997. The band's debut album Socialisme Ou Barbarie: The Bedroom Recordings was released on Duophonic Records in Europe and Drag City in the U.S.  in 2003. The band's second album A Few Steps More was released on Too Pure in 2004. Monade's third, Monstre cosmic, was released in February 2008 on Duophonic.

Sadier has contributed vocals to various other groups and projects, at times along with the late Stereolab member Mary Hansen. Among her contributions were, adding French backing vocals on "To the End", a top 20 hit for Blur in 1994. In 1995, Sadier had recorded the Serge Gainsbourg/Brigitte Bardot song "Bonnie and Clyde" with Luna. She and Hansen had contributed vocals to the recordings of the High Llamas (the project of sometimes-Stereolab member Sean O'Hagan). In 2001, Sadier sang on "Sol y Sombra" on Fugu's Fugu 1 LP on Minty Fresh Records. In 2002, Sadier sang the chorus on "New Wave" from Common's album Electric Circus. She sang lead vocals on "Haiku One" from Sigmatropic's 2004 album Sixteen Haiku & Other Stories which was an album based on the poetry of Greek poet George Seferis. In 2009 the French label Deux Mille released an ep which features Laetitia Sadier singing with Momotte, a band out of Toulouse.

Throughout the years, Sadier has occasionally collaborated with German electronica group Mouse on Mars. In 1997, Sadier sung on "Schnick Schnack Meltmade" on Mouse on Mars' Autoditacker LP, and she and Mary Hansen contributed vocals to the Cache Coeur Naif EP. In turn, Mouse on Mars produced tracks on Stereolab's Dots and Loops LP. In 2007, Sadier wrote songs with MoM and toured with them in Italy. They have yet to record the songs for release.[2]

Sadier also contributed backing vocals to the track "Go Round" on The Hair & Skin Trading Company's 1993 album Over Valence.

Sadier also wrote and sang the lyrics to the track "Quick Canal" by Atlas Sound for the 2009 release Logos.

The Trip was released in 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Laetitia+Sadier">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.