Lafa Taylor 
Lafa Taylor, a world traveler based in Eugene, Oregon, is an up and coming Northwestern emcee/producer. Producing all his own music on his own label, Make Music, he creates a complex sound with intelligent lyrics. Choosing to rhyme about current issues in a positive and constructive way, his music carries a message of inspiration for all walks of life.
 
Music has always been an important part of Lafa's life, and he started recording six years ago. Making beats on a ghetto sampler and a four track from his mom, Lafa and his high school friends started rhyming and recording tracks in Lafa's bedroom. Playing at schools and small local shows, something began to emerge. Soon Lafa began to dedicate his time to creating his own sound, and becoming more proficient with his beat making which he cultivated into his current music.

Lafa's music has been compared to Mos Def, Pigeon John, Spearhead, Barrington Levy and KRS One to name a few. His varied musical style could be described as hip hop beats mixed with reggae, electronica and funk, and his verbal style ranges from spoken word, to melodic vocals, to rapid rhyming. He is also known for his intricate beat boxing, and creates live on the spot beats using his voice and a guitar loop pedal. Lafa's live show is energetic, dynamic and unique. He is making a name for himself on the west coast and has opened for the likes of Wisdom, The Lifesavas, Typical Cats, The Procussions and The Visionaries.

At the age of 17, in the summer of 2003 he released his debut album "Life Music". In 2004, "Hot Winter" was released which took a step into a new realm of music making. He created this multimedia album while spending the winter in Costa Rica, with a portable studio in his backpack. After traveling to Costa, Lafa headed to Japan where he rocked the Japanese scene with infamous Sorasanzen and the chart topping Def Tech. In 2005 Lafa came out with his third disc, "Different" on which he proved the progression of his skills as a beat-maker and really honed his sound. Lafa is currently working in Japan where his song with the multi-platinum group Def Tech is seeing major success. The song was recently licensed for a Sony Ericsson commercial and the song's music video is now airing on MTV Japan, Space Shower, and other Japanese music television stations. Lafa will be releasing an album with major label backing in Japan later this year.

Look for this international man of music who continues to progress and spread love and positive vibes both in Japan and the United States. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lafa+Taylor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.