In December 2001 Lahmia emerges onto the Rome Metal Scene and soon begins playing live in and around local clubs and venues. In 2004, after two years of intense live activity, the band is picked as finalists at the popular Italian music festival and competition "Emergenza Rock”. A year later, the band has a parting of ways when the lead guitarist Ugo Bandinu decides to leave the band but, in January 2005 he is quickly replaced by Flavio Gianello who helps introduce the band to new sounds steering Lahmia's music towards a more melodic death metal group from their earlier sounds of thrash /goth.

January 2007 brings Lahmia to self produce its first promo CD called "An Eternal Memory" marking an important breakthrough in their style and evolution. This new CD would bring about a vast amount of positive feedback from both the general public and music critics alike.

In the summer of 2007 after only a few days of the opening of their official myspace page, Lahmia is chosen among 24 finalists in which the final 9 will be given an opportunity to play at the Gods of Metal 2007 festival (one of the most important European Live Metal Events of the year). In Autumn 2007 Lahmia is eager to begin playing live again and perform at Eutk Night (A Metal event sponsored by Eutk.net, one of the most important national Heavy Metal portal as well as the web-site of the Italian Edition of the magazine "Rock Hard"). Lahmia also plays at the "Metal Massacre" show, one of Rome's historical Metal shows held at Jailbreak, and in april support the outstanding Illogicist (willowtip / candlelight) from Aosta.

In June 2008, Lahmia returns to Christian Ice's production studio Temple of Noise Studios to record their new professionally produced mini-CD "Forget Every Sunrise", a CD that represents many months of hard work in composing music, writing lyrics and recording the new tracks.
With “Forget Every Sunrise” Lahmia will search for a record deal for the first time.

This new record is a continuation of their evolution in melodic death metal that began with their first CD, defining their music, style and their influences.

Lahmia continues to play live at venues and clubs all over Italy and are active on the Italian Metal Scene. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lahmia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.