Laish (pronounced lie-sh) is a British folk-rock band led by songwriter, guitarist and singer Danny Green. Now based in London, the band was formed in Brighton in 2008. The band has performed in various line-ups. In 2019, Danny Green started a new band called DG Solaris.

The band's self-titled debut album was recorded at Green's home and released on Willkommen Records in December 2010. It received a glowing reception from many including Mojo Magazine who were impressed by its “beguiling songs of love”; and then the Obituaries album in 2013, which received well-deserved radio play from Marc Riley, The Waiting Room, Folk Radio UK and Amazing Radio. 

Their second album, Obituaries, was recorded at Green's home and was released via Folkwit Records. 

Their album 'Pendulum Swing' was released in November 2016. 

Laish continue to tour throughout the UK and Europe. They are now comfortably headlining larger shows but have supported the likes of Sons of Noel & Adrian, Peggy Sue, David Thomas Broughton and Grizzly Bear and Beach House at The Roundhouse. The band performed a triumphant set on the mainstage at the first No Direction Home Festival and have also appeared at The Big Chill Festival, Burning Eagle Festival and Willkommen Foxtrot Festival.

The fourth Laish album, "Time Elastic" was released on Talitres on 16 March 2018. 

In 2019, Danny Green started a new band called DG Solaris.

RESPONSE TO LAISH 

“Beguiling songs of love” - Mojo Magazine
Finally getting a bit of the attention that they deserve.  Led by the distinct humour, lyrical lilts and melodic leanings of Daniel Green. Today, they open the Lake Stage of No Direction Home, where their lush acoustic compositions and delicate, playful stories are given the chance to resonate. Clever and accomplished, they provide a gentle, elegant and very welcome opening to the festival’s second day. - The Line of Best Fit
“This is real, beautiful, honest, gracious and just plain wonderful music.” 9/10 – The Blue Walrus
“Very special indeed” – Whisperinandhollerin 8/10
“Packs a lot of punch and emotion” - 4/5 Folk Radio UK
"I think it’s clear Daniel Green and Laish are set to play on bigger stages." - Brighton Music Blog
“Danny Green clearly wins at harmony arranging. He is worthy of some kind of harmonic rosette” - Bearded Magazine
“Laish require attention” Onda Rock 8/10
“Daniel Green has the kind of voice that can melt butter.” - Sounds XP
“Spell-binding music” - Never Enough Notes
“An affecting and irresistible blend of the melancholic and the pretty.” – Suitcase Orchestra
“There is little on the record to dislike” – Bowlegs
“An impressive and beguiling record” – Epigram Bristol
“You would hope that the deserved acclaim will soon come knocking for this talented few” – Subba Culture
“A modest but quietly stunning affair that deserves to make this hard touring band a national treasure” –  Southcoasting
“It’s clear from the band’s sound that they are aiming to do something different with the genre, twisting harmonies and song structure into something their own” Muso’s Guide <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Laish">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.