Lake of Depression was born in May 2005 as a personal solo project from Panama's Doom/Death act Spirit Of The Deep Waters' frontman Lebzul. The main idea was to keep creating deep emotional doom music while the main band was going through a period of inactivity. Lake of Depression doesn't deal with the same shamanism related topics of S.O.T.D.W. The main topics here are depression, agony, torment, and solitude, though other subjects such as the occult and obscure side of both spirit and man are also present. The fisrt efforts to create the music of Lake of Depression brought some Death/Doom with aggresive vocalization but this changed with time in order to reach a deeper, more emotional and depressive mood than the aggressive, evil feeling of the first recordings. During June and July (2005) Lebzul continued creating music for Lake of Depression and Alejandro Escarreola (lead guitar from S.O.T.D.W.) joined the project and colaborated with some accoustic guitars and bass arrangements. The result of this co-work is a self titled demo, released by Infernal World Prods. (now Jaibaná Records) a sub - division of Supersonic Music. The demo was released in late July (2005). It contains almost 30 minutes of music altogether, combining traditional doom, funeral doom, a bit of death doom and dark ambient with many different vocal styles that range from normal speech to deep brutal grownling. Most people who have listened to Lake of Depression have labeled it dark ambient funeral doom. Check it out and judge it yourself! Lake Of Depression signed a deal with the Russian label Endless Desperation Prods. for the release of a split CD with other 3 funeral doom bands. The split is out now (Sept, 2006) and it's entitled "Infinity in Souls" along with doomsters Crepuscularia (Russia), Quasar (Russia) and Source of Deep Shadows (Poland), make sure you don't miss it!! Lake of Depression is not meant to be a temporary project. It will continue to exist as long as the influence keeps flowing and depression keeps haunting the earth. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lake+of+Depression">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.