There are multiple artists named Lament:

1) Lament is a Christian death metal band from Mexico City, Mexico.

2) Lament is a deathcore band from Michigan, United States. Signed to Imminence Records.

3) Lament is a band from the UK, playing a fusion of Latin, jazz and flamenco. Official site: http://www.lament.info

4) Lament is a indie rock band from Leipzig, Germany. Official site: http://www.lament.de

5) Lament is a 1970s / '80s / '90s type of R&B cover band, from Estonia. Official site: http://www.lament.ee

6) Lament was a new wave / punk band from Eindhoven, Netherlands. Active in the 1980s.

7) A hardcore band from Massachusetts. http://lamentma.bandcamp.com/

8) Lament was a American hardcore band from Brooklyn, New York City. https://www.discogs.com/artist/1451454-Lament-3

9) Lament is an one-man Post-Black Metal/Blackgaze band from Indonesia. Bandcamp: https://lamentina.bandcamp.com/

---

Detailed biographies:

1) Lament is a Christian death metal band from Mexico City, Mexico. They are, like all of us, a work in progress. Christianity is evident in not only the band's ministry but the lives of each member. The members of Lament claim Jesus Christ as their Savior. The Lament sound is not exactly Rock, Hard Rock, Metal, or even Heavy Metal. Lament is a Christian Death Metal band. They sound like other Death Metal bands to an extent. But, Lament has a unique style all their own. They blend elements of their Mexican heritage throughout their music like a rich Metal tapestry that can comfort you with a mother's love and cut you like the jagged edge of a rusty blade. Lament's discography includes: Breathless, Through The Reflection and Tears Of A Leper.

3) Lament is a band from the UK, playing a fusion of Latin, jazz and flamenco. They cross boundaries mixing up gypsy and latin rhythms refusing to be labelled as any particular genre blending jazz, ethnic groove and flamenco styles all underscoring memorable and original melodic songs tinged with lyrical melancholy but always managing to come out joyous and life affirming. You cannot resist the overlaying of countless rhythms and quality acoustic musicianship.
Embracing world sounds but steadfastly rooted in their UK urban setting Lament have been seducing audiences who want more than just latin rhythms. You can dance, you can listen but you will be enticed and bewitched by their passionate and exhilarating performances and leave dancing with their infectious melodies whizzing round your head. Their grooves are spiced with Arabic, rumba, Cuban, jazz and brazilian bossa nova flavours with English words that talk of longing and loss.
Fronted by Kath Kimber, this 5 piece have to be seen live to marvel at the energy and performances of incredible improv and freestyling. The band have spent the last year tirelessly touring to nail their sound and to promote their album.
Lament released their second studio album in 2007 This Ain’t Rio and sales are so successful that the album is now in its second print run. They are now working on a follow up to be released in 2009 aswell as embarking on a tour of Art Centres and planning a festival programme for 2009.

Members:
Kath Kimber - lead vocals, songwriter
Ant McTiffen - acoustic guitar, backing vocals, songwriter
Liz Ralls - trumpet, percussion
Wayne Matthews - bass guitar
Chris Viggers - drums, cajon, percussion <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lament">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.