Originally founded under the name of Nyx with industrial-techno tendencies, the band composed by Juan Andrés Celasco, Maximiliano Schneider and Lucio Moschella, which performed from early 1994 to late 2000 in the underground scene of Buenos Aires. 
2001: New name --> Lamia. A search for a new aesthethic begin working the fusion between antique music with electronics. But something essential lacked for this project: a female voice. 

2002: Claudia Rolando [Cali] joined Lamia and Twilight Records offered them the production of a debut album: "Dark Angel". Suddenly after Cali's addition to the line-up, Maximiliano and Lucio left the band. 

2003: "Dark Angel" was released in Germany by the label Black Rain Records, in U.S.A. by Metropolis Records, and Russia by Irond Records. In October 2003 Lamia performed as support band for Clan Of Xymox in Buenos Aires. 

2004: European tour playing live in Germany, England and The Netherlands. In the same year Lamia played live shows in Santiago de Chile at Blondie Disco and the Medusa Festival in Lima [Perú]. The EP "Carnival of Lust" was introduced during these tours. 

2005: Cali left Lamia and Cecilia Marchesotti [soprano] and Daniel Pomba [tenor] joined the band. Their wonderful voices produce a deep change inside Lamia's sound. 

2006: Due to several economical problems Lamia cut relationships with the argentinean label Twilight Records and release the next album "La Máquina De Dios" on Karma Records [own indie label]. As happened before with "Dark Angel", the new album is released in Europe by the German label Black Rain Records. 

2007: After a sabbatic year concerning to live performances the band returns with a renewed esthetic on October supporting live one of the most biggest icons of gothic bands: Lacrimosa, in a concert part of their Latin American Tour '07; and then offer an ecxclusive concert with the gothic-metal band St Grial at Teatro Colonial [again in Buenos Aires] to celebrate the so spected return to stages by Lamia's members. 

Lamia is an absolutly conceptual band and it's reflected on each album. Due to an intense activity of Lamia's members into the musical scene of Buenos Aires performances are not so often with Lamia; so each one of them [in Argentina or another country] must be planned with many time in advance and paying attention to all esthetic details. 

To be continued... 
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lamia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.