More than one artist became known as Lancelot.
1) You can lead a horse to water but generally you can’t make it mono up on its back legs and dance nobly against the brilliance of the setting sun. One man who can though is Sydney’s Lancelot.

Starting out quite firmly behind a piano rather than a pair of CDJs, the man is a producer/maker/doer before all else. However, it was only ever a matter of time before the club-ready DNA took charge and young Lancelot found himself to be mixing two songs together at the same BPM to the liking of an adjacent dancefloor on a regular basis. 

Musical sell-sword for the corporate man by day, cutting up clubs with the best of ‘em by night. And beyond his native Australia, the 23 year-old has already slain clubs in headlining capacity across London, Paris, Barcelona and principalities yonder. Along the way he’s also warmed the room for the likes of Julio Bashmore, Jamie Jones and Horse Meat Disco to name but a modest few.

Stepping his game up along the way, the Lancelot sound has basslines made to move with a crystalline top-end hitting a signature sweet spot. It’s as immediate as it is considered, lively with a sense of longevity. Without any traces of analog evangelism there’s definitely an underlying preference for performance rather than samples and layered vocal takes over pad-punched stabs. 

Since casual music personality Alan Braxe proclaimed breakout Lancelot cut “Spoken Word” to be “an instant classic” [please apply accent] in 2012, it’s been a steady hustle for the young and chivalrous one. 

Name the deed and he’s out there doing it. Remixes for RÜFÜS, Matt Corby, Say Lou Lou, Sparkadia and New Navy, an original EP on Goldroom’s Binary imprint and NY’s Nurvous Records, an audiovisual collab with EGO on an SOS Band burner as well as some stellar new work alongside Antony & Cleopatra (bits and pieces of Sparkadia and cocknbullkid) – it’s kept him pretty well perpetually up and about for a while now.

It’s not as if it ends there either. The spirited caballero is giving 2014 a spur in the guts right from the get-go with EP Givin’ It Up out on Anjunadeep on January 20th. Not planning on mucking around, it’s jammed to the hilt with remixes from the likes of MK and Isaac Tichauer. Due to the fact that it hits hard and does what it says on the tin, legends like T. Williams and Danny Howard (BBC Radio 1), The Magician (see Magic Tape 38) and Perseus (the French Express don) are already flying the flag for it. The crusade continues. 
Remixes: 
Selena (Lancelot Remix) - RÜFÜS
Julian (Lancelot Remix) - Say Lou Lou
Mary (Lancelot Remix) - Sparkadia
Zimbabwe (Lancelot Remix) - New Navy
Surrender (Lancelot Remix) - Kill The Hero


2) Lancelot Hedman Graaf (Carl Sör Lancelot Hedman), born 21 July 2000 in Sweden.

Lancelot “Lance” Hedman Graaf comes from a Swedish celebrity family. His mother is model and singer Magdalena Graaf, while his father is football icon Magnus Hedman. He has appeared in his mum’s reality TV series Systrarna Graaf (The Graaf Sisters), and also his own series Lance vs livet (Lance vs Life). In 2019, he placed third on Let’s Dance.

Earlier this year, Lance featured in the series Behandlingen (Treatment). On the show, Lance opened up about his struggles with substance abuse, including alcohol. The 21-year-old spoke about the importance of breaking taboos about addiction.

And now Lance is moving onto a new chapter of his life.  The young singer has already released dance music as part of the duo Lance & Linton, but with Melodifestivalen he will be making his solo debut.

Aftonbladet‘s source, who has heard the demo of Lance’s Mello entry, says, “This sounds completely different than what he has done before, and it’s a really good song. He will surprise TV viewers.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lancelot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.