With the EP Purple Sky LANCER invaded the swedish metal scene the spring of 2012. The love and passion for the melodic metal was obvious, and fans of Iron Maiden, Helloween and Hammerfall were not disappointed! 

The five guys of the band met at the Music Academy of Ingesund in Arvika, Sweden back in 2009 and the common interest of metal made it unavoidable to form the band. Since then LANCER have gigged several pubs and swedish festivals, and collected the highest amount of points in a swedish competition for unsigned bands in 2011. With an energetic show and technical brilliance, these young rockers leave no one untouched. Through the positive response from reviewers world wide, the Purple Sky EP rendered in a record deal with swedish label Doolittle Group AB managed by the well-known metal vocalist Christian Liljegren (Golden Resurrection, ex-Narnia). King Records in Japan also offered LANCER a great deal, King Records is one of the biggest metal labels in the east and have many European Metal bands in their rooster such as Rhapsody of Fire, UDO, Primal Fear, JORN, Freedom Call and many more. 

By the 18th of January 2013 (November 21st in Japan) the debut album of LANCER, produced by Tommy Reinxeed and Ronny Milianowicz (legendary collaborations with: Michael Kiske, Timo Tolkki, Hammerfall, Primal Fear, Wolf, Amon Amarth and many more…), will be released and the band will set out to conquer the Power Metal scene! 

The trademark of LANCER will always be the songs and their sense for making hit melodies, over technical virtuosity.

LANCER is a fresh wind for the power metal scene, with well written songs, great musicians and a fantastic liveshow they keeping the spirit and legacy of European Power Metal alive! And remember, anyone who spells LANCER with small letters will immediately be transformed into a really weird looking screaming ostrich!

Isak Stenvall - Vocals
Peter Ellström - Guitars
Fredrik Kelemen - Guitars
Emil Öberg - Bass
Sebastian Pedernera - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lancer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.