Lance King is world renowned in the underground as a melodic metal vocalist, singing on over 25 worldwide releases over the last 21 years. This fact is impressive in itself, but what is truly special about Lance is his ability to morph his voice to fit any mood and intensity of a song, he’s proved this over the years by adding a very "special something" to every album he has been a part of. Said to have the golden touch, Lance’s voice just seems to connect the dot’s making head banging metal also into a good song.
 
On the last day of June, 2011 Lance decided to invite some of his musical friends to co-write songs with him as he ventured into his first solo album. An act of faith only knowing their work, never working with them before creating music. In just two months, those involved had created an epic masterpiece, quite a feat indeed based on the quality of this release.

In under three months, A MOMENT IN CHIROS was mixed and mastered and off to the presses, perhaps the fasted created music in history?  This album was meant to be out by 11/11/11 and is destined to stand the test of time.
 
The album's concept is based on the 11:11 time prompt phenomena happening to over 75 million people around the world, Lance is one of these people, and has dived in deep to find more about what it’s all about. This album is one man's journey as a seeker of truth looking for answers to the world's greatest mysteries.
 
Lance has chosen "Human Trafficking" (sex slavery), one of the fastest growing criminal activities worldwide as the charitable cause he would like to champion, profits from this album will go to efforts to abolish this slave trade worldwide through an organization called "NOT FOR SALE"!
http://www.notforsalecampaign.org/about/slavery/
 
Boasting great creativity and performances by these fine musicians: Jacob Hansen (Beyond Twilight, Invocator & Anubis Gate), Kim Olesen (Anubis Gate), Michael Harris (Darkology, Thought Chamber), Tore St Moren (Jorn), Fred Colombo (Spheric Universe Experience), Markus Sigfridsson (Darkwater / Harmony), Kevin Codfert (Adagio), Michael Hansen & Shane Dhiman (Phonomik), Morten Gade Sørensen (Pyramaze, Wuthering Heights), Elyes Bouchoucha, Malek Ben Arbia, Anis Jouini  (Myrath) & Mistheria (Bruce Dickinson and MANY others).

Produced by: Kim Olesen (Anubis Gate) & Jacob Hansen, (Volbeat, Heathen, TYR, Amaranthe, Communic, Mercenary, Onslaught, Rob Rock, Blotted Science, Raunchy, Pretty Maids, Cryoshell)

 
TRACKLIST:                                   
111. A Sense of Urgency
222. Awakening  
333. Manifest Destiny       
444. A Given Choice        
555. A Moment in Chiros 
666. Dance of Power
777. Kibou
888. Infinity Divine
999. Joy Everlasting
10:10 Sacred Systems
11:11 Transformation
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lance+King">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.