Landing is a group of 5 friends that are based in Connecticut, USA. Formed in the summer of 1998 from the ashes of a musical project that Aaron and Adrienne had been fooling around with, the band quickly grew to include original band members Dick Baldwin (guitar, bass), Adrienne Snow (vocals, synthesizer) and Daron Gardner (bass, drums) in the fall of that year. Many weird shows took place throughout the next few years including a punk rock tour in the summer of 1999 in their smashed up, crappy van and many underground, semi-secret "Home Shows" in the Snow's living room. Throughout those first few years, Landing released some cd's that documented their beginnings. "Centrefuge ep" (Music Fellowship) was released in 1999 and included many of the home recordings that Aaron did before the band was formed, along with the very first music that Landing made as a group.

After re-locating to Connecticut, Landing began the busiest year of their existence in 2001. They released the full lengths "Circuit" (Music Fellowship) and "Oceanless" (which was actually recorded before "Circuit" but came out after on Strange Attractors Audio House) and also put out a split tour ep with Windy & Carl (Music Fellowship). Landing toured a few times in 2001 including a summer tour with the amazing Windy & Carl! During this time period, Adam Forkner (Yume Bitsu, VVRSSNN, White Rainbow, World) came into the picture and Aaron, Daron, and Dick started making music with Forkner and Phil Jenkins under the name Surface of Ece(y)on. Their first album "The King Beneath the Mountain" (Strange Attractors Audio House) was released in 2001 and their first and only tour took place in the winter of that year.
 
2002 found Landing slowing down a bit and settling into their home studio in Middletown, CT named Hi Mid Recording (for High Street in Middletown... get it?). In that year, the band only released one full length (the moody "Seasons" on Ba Da Bing!) but managed to record and release three ep's of new material- the mostly acoustic 2002 tour ep (Vast Arc Hues), the improvised psych/drone "Fade In/Fade Out" (Strange Attractors Audio House), and a three way split with Yellow 6 and Rothko entitled "New Found Land" (Music Fellowship). During the summer of 2002, Landing did their most extensive tour of the United States which led them everywhere from Atlanta to Portland. Much fun was had in their yellow short bus which got 6 miles/gallon but slept 3 big dudes (and one petite redhead). 2002 ended on the highest note possible when Landing was asked to play the Terrastock festival where they played for the biggest and most enthusiastic crowd they'd ever seen.

 Exciting changes were in store the following year, culminating in a move to the venerable K records for the release of "Passages Through". Surface of Eceyon came out of hiding and released the "Dragyyn" full lenth (Strange Attractors), and two ep's- the three way split "Crickets and Fireflies" with Kinski and Paik (Music Fellowship) and "Tussyan Ruins" (Three Lobed). Landing toured again and continued to have fun making music and playing shows here and there.

 2004 was bittersweet for the original group of four close friends and tourmates. Dick Baldwin moved back home to help his family who were in a tough situation and Daron Gardner decided to sit out their annual summer tour. Ned Clayton (who had helped record some of "Passages Through" and "Centrefuge") filled in for Daron on drums during the tour (and did a great job), but changes were afoot. After languishing in the dusty attic for the better part of 6 months, the master tapes for "Sphere" (K Records) were finally brought out of storage and the album was finished early that spring. Without Dick, however, Landing was in limbo. They soldiered on as a 3 piece, playing a few shows with Calvin Johnson before taking an extended break.

Finally, in the spring of 2005, the band made some tenative steps toward re-birth. Their close friend and frequent tourmate from the early days in Utah, Peter Baumann, was asked into the group to play synthesizer and Landing began a new phase of songwriting and recording. The result is "Brocade" (Strange Attractors Audio House), which marks the beginning of a new period for Landing... one in which these long-time friends continue to experiment with new ideas and have tons of fun making new music together.

In May of 2007 Aaron and Adrienne had a baby girl named Elise and took an extended break from making music.  In December 2008, Aaron Snow announced that a new album was in the works.  Landing's 8th album was released on Geographic North in 2012. Since then, Landing has been actively playing shows and releasing music including "Wave Lair" EP (These Are Not Records 2013), "II" EP (Vast Arc Hues 2013), "Body Diffuser" EP (Vast Arc Hues 2015), "Third Sight" LP (El Paraiso Records 2016), and Complekt LP (These Are Not Records 2016).  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Landing">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.