There are three artists sharing this name.

1) Landmark,four-piece Indie rock band from Tbilisi,Georgia.

http://www.facebook.com/wearelandmark

Landmark, just as many bands that were conceived during a chemistry lesson, at school, was devised at school as well, not necessarily the name itself but the idea of playing in a band was fancied a great deal and I’m sure every member of the band took part in dreaming this very idea away. Well, the story itself evolved rather tediously so why should anybody be wasted and read or listen how the band was formed and how the rapport among the band mates was built, it is rather dry, cos they just got together, stuck to their idea whatever on earth it was (at the very least they tried) and that’s about it.
I’d rather tell you what compels these guys to make music however abysmally or profoundly they do it, it’s about the lack of the current influence that has been taking over the European and North American underground music, on the current Georgian music. The facet of this influence that Landmark tries to grasp is spaciousness, how music can be reverberating and, therefore, breathtaking, it’s a great endeavour, isn’t? especially, when there’s zero wherewithal to make it happen and no hope whatsoever, nowadays Georgian music sounds rather monotonous just as some throttled sardines in a tin can. Despite the shortage in abilities and experience that the band members have, there’s no moment’s relenting or backing down, it’s all that can bring them to the summit, however, you may have noticed that these guys need whole batches of lot, perseverance and as well being cocksure as hard as they can and they’ll get the better of all the mishaps and shabbiness they find themselves wrapped up just for the moment.
These two tunes were recorded at a studio that’s no bigger than a hedgehog’s den, they had tough times recording them, with the computer that was repeatedly on the blink and the drummer having hard times recording his pieces cos of inexperience in playing on electro-drums. But let’s not be too pitiless and say that their craving and yearning for the outcome for which they squeezed through that hedgehog’s den doesn’t bear fruit, may be not yet, but after some time I dare say.

2) Country Pop band from Los Angeles ,USA.

The band was formed in 1998, after individual and collaborative efforts. John Copeland, John Landgren, Jr. and Kristy Landgren grew up together in Rockford, Illinois. With musical families and backgrounds, they participated in garage bands, High School A Cappella Choirs/School Plays, Church and Local Musical/Variety Acts, and Community Chorales. They have employed the talents of fellow musicians: Robert “Jake” Jacobs, Jamie Campbell, Woody Smith, Erin caldwell, and more, in the making of this CD.

3) Landmark (King of Nerds) / SMELLS LIKE TEEN SPIRIT

ITALIAN: 

Capelli sempre in ordine con il "righello", occhiali scotchati causa "bullo della classe accanto", camicia abbottonata e jeans con calzino bianco rigato in vista. 

Questo è Landmark, talentuoso ventiduenne, new entry del gruppo di artisti targati Melodica Records (The Cube Guys, BenDj, Get Far, Wolfgang Gartner, Paolo Aliberti, Diego Abaribi). 

Dj e produttore dal 2002, Marco, è un ragazzo estroverso ed instintivo; da sempre innamorato di personaggi storici come Michael Jackson, Madonna e Daft Punk, è influenzato in gran parte dalla scena indipendente Francese ed Americana. 

Oggi dimostra un enorme senso del ritmo, in consolle è un vero e proprio intrattenitore della folla, scherza, balla e crea quella situazione di esaltazione generale. 

In uscita nel settembre 2008 il primo singolo "Save rock" che, con le varie versioni, staziona per più di un mese nella top 100 INDIE DANCE/NU DISCO di BEATPORT, così da portare Landmark ad essere uno dei primi Italiani ad entrare nella classifica del nuovo genere del portale per dj più visitato al mondo. 

Nel marzo 2009 in uscita due nuovi lavori firmati LANDMARK ("Biokosmos 001" e "Smells like teen spirit"). 

BIOKOSMOS 001 
Prima uscita della serie Biokosmos (www.myspace.com/biokosmos) vede la collaborazione di LANDMARK e MATHEW YOUNGERS. 

Sample geniale e sonorità club "IN HEAVEN EVERYTHING IS FINE"!!! 


LANDMARK - SMELLS LIKE TEEN SPIRIT 

2nd PLACE HOUSE PLANET MARCH 09!!!
3rd PLACE ELECTRO HOUSE BEATPORT!!! 
11th PLACE OVERALL BEATPORT!!! 

ENGLISH: 

Geometrical side party, taped up specs (he once refused to give his lunch money to the bully), buttoned up shirt and white pin striped socks under his jeans. 

This is Landmark, the talented 22 Y/O and new entry as a Melodica Records Artist (The Cube Guys, BenDj, Get Far, Wolfgang Gartner, Paolo Aliberti, Diego Abaribi). 

Dj and Producer since 2002, Marco is an extrovert and instinctive kind of guy: heavily influenced by the Independent French and American scene, he’s always been a fan of musical legends like Madonna, Michael Jackson and Daft Punk. 

Today he demonstrates an enormous understanding of rhythm. His showmanship when in the Dj booth always creates a situation of general exaltation within the crowd through his energy. 

His first single “Save rock” was released in 2008 and has been holding a firm position in the top 100 INDIE DANCE/NU DISCO BEATPORT charts. This is significant as he is now the first Italian artist to have entered the charts of this new genre in the most visited Dj portal of the world. 

In March 2009 there are two new releases bearing his name (BIOKOSMOS 001 and SMELLS LIKE TEEN SPIRIT) 

BIOKOSMOS 001 [LANDMARK & MATHEW YOUNGERS - OVERLADY] 
First release by biokosmos (www.myspace.com/biokosmos) which is a collaboration between LANDMARK and MATHEW YOUNGERS. 

Slick sample and club sounds "IN HEAVEN EVERYTHING IS FINE!!!" 


LANDMARK - SMELLS LIKE TEEN SPIRIT 

2nd PLACE HOUSE PLANET MARCH 09!!!
3rd PLACE ELECTRO HOUSE BEATPORT!!! 
11th PLACE OVERALL BEATPORT!!! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Landmark">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.