LANFEAR were founded in 1993 in Germany. They recorded a selftitled demo and released their debut "Towers" by themselves. Urwerk Records re-released the album with a different cover artwork in 1997. The more progressive second work "Zero Poems" saw the light of day in 1999 and was released by the small label Famous Kitchen. The public interest about LANFEAR grew rapidly and today many people consider "Zero Poems" as a Prog Metal classic.

After a line up change the third and more powerful LANFEAR album "The Art Effect" was recorded in Dreamscape studios, Munich, and was released in Europe by Massacre records (March 2003). The reactions from press and fans were fantastic, “The Art Effect” received great reviews, achieved top rankings in some of the greatest Metal magazines and sold very good.

LANFEAR played many gigs and festivals in 2003 and 2004 and also started songwriting for their next album. In September 2004 they took the offer from INTROMENTAL management, Denmark, and decided to cooperate, just to do the next step on the ladder and to reach an even larger audience.

In October recordings to the fourth album „aNother gOlden rAge“ began. The songs best can be described as the next logical step compared to “The Art Effect”. Stirring and varied songwriting with the necessary rough edges, catchy hooks and a production with even more punch characterize the fourth LANFEAR album.

"aNother gOlden rAge" was released in January 2005, the reactions again were incredible.
At the same time LANFEAR signed a licensing deal with Nightmare records, as a result
"The Art Effect" and "aNother gOlden rAge" are now officially available in the U.S. .

In April/May LANFEAR supported Morgana Lefay on their European tour to promote the new album - responses were great!

In the beginning of 2006 LANFEAR decided to split up with Tobias Althammer (vocals).
Luckily it took not very long to find Nuno Miguel de Barros Fernandes (ex-Anguish), more than just a "replacement". Nuno Fernandez convinces with a supremely variable voice and the necessary grasp for haunting melodies. 
Meanwhile LANFEAR work on their fifth album and will of course as always come up with some surprises...be prepared! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lanfear">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.