Langhorne Slim is an American singer-songwriter (born Sean Scolnick in Langhorne, Pennsylvania, on August 20, 1980). He has recorded as Langhorne Slim & the War Eagles and as Langhorne Slim & The Law. In 2016 he released the song "Sea of Love" as Langhorne Slim & Jill Andrews. 

He released his first album, entitled "Slim Pickens", in 1999. "When The Sun's Gone Down" followed in 2005. 

In August 2006, Langhorne Slim and his then band (The War Eagles) signed to V2 Records, who folded on the deal. The band then signed to Kemado Records and released their only album. 

In its December 2008 edition, Paste Magazine named his 2008 solo self-titled album number 14 in its list of 25 best albums of the year. His song "Electric Love Letter" was number 5 on the Rolling Stone editor's top 10 picks.  In 2008 Slim and band were a guest act on David Letterman.  

In 2009 he released, Be Set Free, which includes guest vocals from Erika Wennerstrom (of Heartless Bastards).

In 2009 the War Eagles welcomed a new upright bass player, Jeff Ratner (succeeding long-time member Paul Defiglia) to join Malachi DeLorenzo (the son of Victor Delorenzo, drummer of the Violent Femmes) on drums and David Moore on keyboard and banjo. The touring band varied, and sometimes included a horn section. 

Langhorne sang "God Bless America" for the seventh inning stretch during a Philadelphia Phillies game, and the song "Worries" was featured in a Travelers Insurance commercial.  T

Langhorne Slim and his new band, The Law, released "The Way We Move" on June 5, 2012. "The Spirit Moves" followed on August 7, 2015 (via Dualtone Records). 

Subsequent solo albums are "Lost At Last Vol. 1" (2017), "Strawberry Mansion" (2021), ...

Website:
www.langhorneslim.com 
www.myspace.com/langhorneslim 
www.facebook.com/langhorneslim 
www.twitter.com/langhorneslim 
http://langhorneslim.fanbridge.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Langhorne+Slim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.