LANGSUYR was created by Bentara and Azmaniac in the mid of 1991, and they've been only a two-piece band since then until they found it hard to rehearse when Bentara's playing the guitar and singing while Azmaniac handling the drums. So, they've decided to recruit Azlan, who handles the vocals and Ajiz playing the drums. Azmaniac then became a rhythm guitarist.

With this line up, in 1993, they've recorded their one and only demo "Occultus Mysticism" which gained a wide response worldwide. People tend to know LANGSUYR better from it's "Occultus Mysticism". Recorded in Universal Studio, Klang, this demo perhaps was the best ever produced by a Malaysian band at that time.

The demo was sold out rapidly and an agreement was made between LANGSUYR and EAST GOTHIC PRODUCTIONS to re-release the demo professionally for 500 copies. And again, in 1994, the "Occultus Mysticism" hits the street and sold out in a short time, and there are still demands on it.

The demand is perhaps the best thing to show that LANGSUYR had reached the stardom. Since then too, LANGSUYR had made few gigs, the most successful gig was 'The Nocturn Feast' held in their hometown in 25th December 1994. LANGSUYR had also featured in numerous compilation tapes and underground magazines. Deals were also been negotiated, but nothing came in reality. LANGSUYR has decided to remain silence.

1996 sees the dark clouds cover the Malaysian scene, when LANGSUYR finally awake and release their second masterpiece. The release of "The Eastern Cruelty" EP, was the turning point for the so-called Eastern Metal scene in the region, despite the poor production. The EP gained positive response from the masses and even able to create new fans just after listening to it!

In 1998 the entered the studio again to record two tracks for the highly-acclaimed IPOH METAL MILITANT SUPREMACISTS which offers the progression they have been walking through along these years. At that time, the used Wira as a drummer.

In 1999, things started to shift. Due to other interest, the band members had decided to make rest of the band.

In early 2005, the band members have started to meet again. The original members, Azmaniac and Bentara made a new commitment for a new release, which was promised in the inlay of THE EASTERN CRUELTY ep. After more than 10 years of existence, the year 2006, ASYIK was born!

DISCOGRAPHY
Occultus Mysticism demo 1993
The Eastern Cruelty cassette EP (Nebiula Production) 1995
Ryusgnal (Nebiula Production) CD 2000
The Eastern Cruelty + bonus (Nebiula Production) CD 2006
Asyik (Clockwork Record) digipak CD 2006
Live at Planet Hollywood Video CD (Clockwork Record) 2006

Azmaniac -guitars
Bentara-guitars
Azlanthor-vocals
(other instruments are played by sessionists)

http://langsuyr.metalterus.com.my/
http://www.myspace.com/langsuyrband
langsuyr@optusnet.com.au

LANGSUYR
c/o Clockwork Record
C-6-1 6th Floor
The Mines Waterfront Business Park
No 3 Jalan Tasik
43300 Seri Kembangan, Selangor
MALAYSIA
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Langsuyr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.