There are two bands called Largo.

One is a mechanically-recovered robot rock band from Brighton.

Jo Bramli
Ben Adamo
James Wilkinson
Ben Burns
Ed Chivers


 Formed in 2003 when Johanna Bramli (Keys & Vocals)and Ben Adamo (Bass, Guitar), both from Belgium, recruited Matt Josling (Keys & loops), Largo started as what was then a Downtempo/electronica trio. 

Two years later and after reevaluating their sound and direction, Matt left the band and was replaced by James Wilkinson (ex Anal Beards!) who gradually swapped keys for strings, and became the bassist of the band allowing Ben to rekindle with the 6-strings, confirming the new rock/alternative angle of the group ; even more so after Ed Chivers, still strong from his stint with band Creature as well as his other project, Oom , arrived on the scene as the much needed human drum machine.  

In the mean time, Ben Burns, a music procucer, having worked with such household names as Cagedbaby, Alice Russel and Phil Hartnoll, first became producer of the band before officially joining it two years later, adding valuable experience as well as an arsenal of analogue synths into the frame, completing the Largo jigsaw.
Largo members are all multi functional and it is not a rare sight to see them swapping instruments on stage...

Largo have since been busy putting the final touches to their first single, "Silverspoon" which appeared on their first demo in 2004 (Which also included "What we've got in mind" and "Fight Club"), before getting a facelift by the current line up. The B-side to the single, which is scheduled for release in the spring, will be the much anticipated "Dictee Magique", for which a video was put together by up and coming belgian director, Aaron F.

Watch the full video here: www.dicteemagique.com


Also available by Aaron F, the video for the song twisting which was shot in a couiple of hours in a brussels basement last summer. "Twisting": www.aaronfuks.com, and follow the video link.

Side projects, see also:

Jo Bramli: www.myspace.com/wearesnazzy
Ben Adamo: www.myspace.com/transformertransformer
Ed Chivers: www.myspace.com/oom

The other one is a Finnish band. Their music is based on poems of Ilpo Tiihonen and composed by Merja Ikkelä, originally from Kauhajoki, Finland and Jiri Kuronen. Largo was formed in Tampere with line-up:

Anne Nielsen - vocals
Merja Ikkelä - harmonica, piano
Arto Nurmi - bass
Jiri Kuronen - piano
associates
Janne Halonen - guitars
Sami Koskela - percussions
Juho Viljanen - trombone
V-P Haanmäki - sax
Max Lilja - Chello
Kanerva Pasanen - backing vocals




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Largo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.