Rapper Larry June draws on aspects of both his West Coast roots and Atlanta upbringing for a rap style that is as gritty as it is dreamily smooth. Prolifically releasing projects throughout the 2010s, June's laid-back flows and sunny instrumentals graced multiple mixtapes and studio albums like 2020's collaborative effort with , Keep Going.

June was born in San Francisco in 1991 and relocated to Atlanta at age four. He grew up splitting time between the two major cities, spending summers with his father in the Bay Area and the rest of the year immersed in the culture and sounds of the South. He began rapping and making his own music at age eight, and by 15 he'd released his first mixtape. As he got a little older, June threw himself passionately into a life of music, growing his fan base through an active social media presence and eventually touring with big names like Asher Roth, Post Malone, and Cousin Stizz.

After issuing several self-released mixtapes, the rapper signed on with Warner Bros.  Following the release of several singles and mixtapes such as 2015's #GoodJobLarry, June issued his EP Larry in the summer of 2016, gaining more visibility. He released the mixtapes Orange Season and Larry 2 before returning in March 2018 with the more realized collection You're Doing Good. More material followed at a staggering clip, as June released six mixtapes and studio albums throughout 2019, including the Cardo collaboration Mr. Midnight and the old-school-flavored Product of the Dope Game. He barely slowed down in 2020, releasing one project after another at about the same rate. Standouts from June's 2020 output included the hazy Berner collaboration Cooks & Orange Juice and the Billboard Heatseekers-charting mixtape Keep Going, made with Harry Fraud and featuring guest spots from Dom Kennedy  and Curren$y . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Larry+June">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.