Lead singer Lars Vognstrup is a well known figure on the Danish music scene. The story started back in 1995 when a young Lars formed a hiphop band together with a friend and since then, the striving musician hasn’t looked back. He’s been the lead singer of the heavy metal band, Raunchy and as a part of Junior Seniors live band he has toured the world. In 2004 Lars and his childhood friend, Kim LAS formed the band, Money Your Love. They released a great album, which the hit single “For Kristoffer” that still receives plenty of airplay in Scandinavia.

Together with Kristian Godtfredsen, Lars formed the band Wolfkin in 2006 and their debut-album “Brand New Pants” received a lot of recognition. The album was released in Scandinavia, USA, Germany, Iceland, Finland, Switzerland and Austria. After touring these territories the band decided to call it a day in 2008. 

Lars then moved to Los Angeles, where he played guitar with “IMA Robot” and Ryan Gosling’s “Dead Man’s Bones”. During his time in LA Lars started to work on the songs for his new and most ambitious project to date, Lars and The Hands of Light. A band where Lars takes the lead role in full for the first time and truly shows his skills as a singer and songwriter of international class.
The debutalbum was released on January 25, where it immediately had lots of airplay on Danish radio.
Three singles were released from the album; "Me Me Me", "Hey My Love, Hey Love!" and "Multicolored". All classic pop songs that you can’t get out of your head after hearing them for the first time.

Lars and The Hands of Light consists, besides lead singer Lars Vognstrup, of his sister Line Vognstrup, who had her vocal debut on the Wolfkin album and also performed with the band live. She’s an great singer and a star in the making. On drums we find Peter Leth who also played with Junior Senior. On synth and backing vocals we find Thomas Stück who also performed in Money Your Love’s live-setup. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lars+and+the+Hands+of+Light">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.