Last Question is a progressive death metal band from Lexington, KY. 

History:
The band came together in the fall of 2006, but has gone by several names. For years, they used the name Entropy, inspired by Isaac Asimov's short story, “The Last Question.” As Entropy, the band spent some time on Riotous Records with producer Dave Hyde and recorded two EPs in 2009, now out of print. In November 2011, Entropy disbanded, but the band members would move forward with a new identity as Last Question. The band has released one album, traveled throughout the region and shared the stage with bands like Nevermore, Children of Bodom, Warbringer, Eluveitie, and Anal Blast.

Last Question:
Guitarists Josh Childers and Jerrod Messick combine the best of self-taught innovation and classically trained precision to push at the boundaries of their genre in every song they create. Meanwhile drummer Ben Sherman drives the music forward with complex, technical rhythms. The resulting sound is known for memorable melodies, many odd times and polyrhythms, and progressive song structures. With lyrical themes including science and science fiction as they apply to humanity, as well as broader themes such as the history and future of civilization, Last Question attempts to answer the great questions of our world, the greatest of which: can entropy be reversed?

The Furnace:
The first release from Last Question is an archive of the band's work as Entropy. Recorded on a lower-than-low budget with unsuitable technology, the album's sound is as underground as the band that wrote it. Its style ranges from the fast and heavy Sacred Finality, opening the album with a classic death metal feel, to the blackened death metal title track, The Furnace, on to an epic of black metal in Corpses and Reddened Angels, and finally closing in crushing doom metal with Eclipse. The album was recorded “live” in studio with all rhythm tracks laid down simultaneously and recorded without the aid of any click track or metronome to produce a natural sound and better capture the raw energy of Last Question's live performances. The result is a testament to Last Question's origins. The Furnace is available in digital form, free of charge. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Last+Question">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.