For over a decade main LDOA engine and songwriter Karl Larsson has steered the band from frustrated emotional hardcore to well-produced pop songs, without ever giving in to current fads and trends. Last Days of April has been a reliable rock in the stormy waters of pop culture, and the solid fan base around the world tells of the same kind of commitment.

Might As Well Live (out in late February 2007) fuses Larsson’s long-evolved melodic craftsmanship and emotionally charged lyrics on the ups and downs in life with thick rock guitars and a production with the word airplay written all over it, signed master-mind Pelle Gunnerfeldt (Grammy Award winning producer whose previous work includes The Hives and Sahara Hotnights). The album was recorded at his studio Gröndahl in November 2006.

With Larsson firmly in charge of the recording process, other musicians on the album include Mathias Oldén from LDOA label mates Logh as well as hard-hitting drummer Fredrik Granberg from Swedish punk rock outfit Randy – an obvious step towards a more classic rock band setting. Their contributions, along with Larsson’s increased amplifier volume make Might As Well Live their most straight forward, rock-based album in many years, although conceptually related both to 2000’s classic Angel Youth (recently voted as one of ten essentials albums for heartbreak moments by the highly influential Alternative Press) and their latest, much-appreciated album If You Lose It from 2004.

During the past few years Last Days of April has spent a lot of time on the road, with up to a hundred live shows a year, including tours of Europe, Australia and Japan. Most of the big festivals have been covered, such as Hultsfred, Rock Am Ring/Rock Im Park, Livid and Southside/Hurricane, and as supporting act LDOA have been on the road with major rock acts like Sportfreunde Stiller (Germany), Superjesus (Australia) and Fightstar (UK).

Might As Well Live will also put the band on the road in 2007, with extensive touring in Scandinavia and Europe immediately following the release. Shortly thereafter dates will be confirmed for Japan, Australia and their very first US tour, solidifying further with the help of their catchiest single to date - Who’s On The Phone? – boasting melodic power pop at its finest and a very contagious chorus.

The album title Might As Well Live is a statement, a decision that some things need to carry on, no matter what. Last Days of April is one of those things.

http://www.badtasterecords.se/bands.asp?id=19

Last Days of April is an indie pop band from Stockholm, Sweden.

Last Days of April formed in 1996 and found some underground success with their first demo release. A full-length was issued in 1997, then an EP on Bad Taste Records in 1998. Their sophomore effort, Rainmaker, was released in both Europe (on Bad Taste) and Japan (on Straight Up Records), and the group toured with The Promise Ring and The Bufferins in Europe. Their third full-length was produced by Pelle Gunnerfeldt and saw a release on Deep Elm Records in America, while their fourth was issued in the United States by Crank! Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Last+Days+of+April">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.