Have you ever seen a jackhammer tear through a slab of concrete?  That is impact.  Have you ever seen the aftermath of a high-speed motorcycle accident?  That is shred.  Have you ever seen a world-class weightlifter put so much iron on the sides of a barbell that it bent the steel in his hands like a limp noodle?  That is heavy.  Want to see something as fierce as all of the above?  Go to an LBD show.

People looking for maximum intensity in their music are always drawn to metal.  Thrash, speed, black, whatever…if you don’t want to just listen to music but feel it pounding in your body, you won’t find a more suitable style.  But while all metal bands try to achieve this overpowering effect, the vast majority fall short.  They bring nothing but obvious indifference and a lack of imagination to the stage or stereo.  And it isn’t just the local bands, most of which are populated by talentless newcomers who hide their inabilities behind random powerchords and excessive volume.  Even most of today’s top-tier acts leave much to be desired.  You can easily waste an entire day’s pay to see a “performance” by a group of these “professionals.”  LBD are real men at work.

LBD aren’t a bunch of pimple-faced kids with obnoxious hair hoping to slack their way into Kurt Cobain’s empty shoes.  They also aren’t a group of big-beer-gut-in-too-small-of-a-T-shirt sloths who thought they could make up the cost of their equipment in complimentary tappers.  And they sure as hell aren’t a bunch of old men trying to recall their youthful energy while hiding behind enough pyrotechnics to implode a shopping mall.

You can go anywhere and find someone who will breathe a pretty melody into a microphone, or you can witness vocalist Joep Berbée explode into one.  While most metal singers use excessive distortion to create impact, Joep puts every fibre of his body behind what he screams.  He’s backed by guitarist duo Herman de Vries and Joost van Luik, who thrash both strings and stage alike with the kind of showmanship that made AC/DC’s Angus Young a legend.  As they attack like an axe murderer on speed, drummer Eelco van der Meer keeps up the pace with a technique unrivalled by all but the best of drummers.  Part Vinnie Paul (Pantera) and part Mike Portnoy (Dream Theater), Eelco can play at a thousand miles an hour in a million places at once, while still holding down a solid, fist-pounding groove.  Keeping the whole thing together is bassist Orhan Smits.  Considering the range of modern guitar amplifiers, it’s hard to find a bass player that isn’t redundant.  Rather than hide in the sonic background, Orhan punches through the mix with a right-hand thumb that can slap double-time sixteenths with the precision of an eye surgeon.  The sum of all of these parts makes LBD the kind of powerhouse that’s as intense as a pallet of bricks on your chest and a bed of nails on your back.  Intense, ferocious, extreme…and you’ll still be feeling it tomorrow.

Picture a tom-tom heavy, Sepultura-like tribal beat.  Guitars and bass tease into a riff that quickly drops into a double-time gallop.  With a running start, vocals enter like the baton of an aggressive riot cop while the sonic wall subtly shifts into a swing-time groove approaching redline.  Like gasping for after air after narrowly escaping from a sinking ship, the whole band breaks into a hook you could catch a shark on while the song’s chorus tosses you like a palm tree in a hurricane.  A brief return to the intro gallop suddenly twists into a hell-bent scramble with a double-time chug punctuated by a climaxing harmony before the vocals launch the whole maelstrom into a rolling boil.  With the force of the Hoover Dam exploding at full reservoir, the chorus comes crashing back in, this time like an out-of-control car flying through your living room window.  That’s what LBD’s “Don’t Forget to Lie” sounds like—in the first minute an a half.

There are precious few bands that can make you feel like getting hit full-on by a bus.  These guys make you feel like you where running at it.  Last Breath Denied. 

Vocals - Joep Berbée
Guitar - Herman de Vries
Guitar - Joost van Luik
Bass-guitar - Orhan Smits
Drums - Eelco van der Meer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Last+Breath+Denied">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.