Late Night Alumni, comprised of Becky Jean Williams, Finn Bjarnson, John Hancock, and Kaskade, is best known for their 2005 international hit single “Empty Streets” from the album of the same name.  Released in the UK by the Ministry of Sound label, Empty Streets garnered a strong underground following, and has become a mainstay on dancefloors and airwaves around the world. Their sound is characterized by an immaculately crafted production style that rides between electronic and organic, tied together with the angelic vocal presence of front-woman Becky Jean Williams.

The group came into being in 2003 when Bjarnson, who had already worked with Kaskade, met Williams and the three of them began recording as Late Night Alumni. In 2004, the Hed Kandi label made an offer to release a full-length Late Night Alumni album. “At that point,” Bjarnson says, “I knew the band was not ready. We were missing an element.” The missing element turned out to be John Hancock, a talented local producer with whom Bjarnson had been trying to “find an excuse” to work with for years. The band was complete and began mixing electronic and organic elements for a unique brand of chill that is easily distinguishable in today’s electronic music scene.

The band’s first single, “Empty Streets” received massive support in both the clubs and on the radio getting Top Ten Radio Play in the UK and US, and reaching #1 in Spain. “Empty Streets” has also been licensed to commercials including a spot for the Toyota IQ. Plus, more than a dozen of the world’s biggest dance compilations have licensed the track, and it remains the most popular and downloaded song on Tiesto’s In Search Of Sunrise compilation.

Late Night Alumni’s newest album Of Birds, Bees, Butterflies, etc. was recorded in various studios between Park City, Utah and San Francisco, California.  The first two singles “You Can Be The One” and “Finally Found” feature remixes by top producers including Sultan & Ned Shepard, Max Vangelli and DJ Eco.  A video for the single “Finally Found” is due for release later this month.

Late Night Alumni’s Ryan Raddon (aka Kaskade) is also a world-renowned producer and DJ who has remixed such artists as Lady Gaga, Britney Spears, and Seal.  Kaskade: “Contrary to what some bloggers might think, Late Night Alumni is not just me. But don’t get me wrong… this is my band. But it’s also Becky, John and Finn’s band. Becky’s voice is the reason we do what we do. Her style and character make Late Night Alumni possible.”

Finally, four years later, Late Night Alumni is releasing its sophomore album Of Birds, Bees, Butterflies, etc., which picks up where Empty Streets left off. Signed to Ultra Records, Late Night Alumni is poised to get its music out to a larger audience and to reconnect with those who have already fallen in love with their ethereal brand of music.

latenightalumni.com 
myspace.com/latenightalumni
ultrarecords.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Late+Night+Alumni">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.