There are multiple artists that share this name:

1) Laudanum was a metal band based in Oakland, CA, United States. They played a mixture of doom and sludge metal. Formed in 2003 by husband and wife Judd Hawk (guitar, vocals, noise) and Becky Hawk (drums, vocals, noise) with Robert Collins (bass, vocals), they released 2 full-length LPs, an EP and two split EPs. Their music was dark, heavy and atmospheric, featuring elements of black metal, crust punk and noise. A consistent theme in their work was the use of film, television, radio and other audio samples, often in combination with distorted, textural noise effects.
 In 2005 Robert Collins left the band and was replaced by Greg Wilkinson of Brainoil fame. He contributed bass, vocals and noise on all subsequent releases.
In 2008, Nathan Misterek of the then-defunct band Graves at Sea joined, contributing vocals and noise to 2009's "The Coronation" and the 2010 split "Ultrasonic Generator Schematic".
From 2010-2013, live bass was handled by Salvador Raya (ex Asunder, Elk).
Robert Collins went on to play in Malachi. Greg Wilkinson's Brainoil project is ongoing and Nathan Misterek is currently on vocals in the reformed Graves at Sea. Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Laudanum/205739312793208

Releases:
2004 - The Apotheker (full-length on Unknown Controller)
2007 - Laudanum (EP on Pyrate Punx Records)
2009 - Sacred Death (split with Stormcrow on 20 Buck Spin)
2009 - The Coronation (full-length on 20 Buck Spin)
2010 - Ultrasonic Generator Schematic (split with Black Ganion on C.A.C. Recordings)

2) Laudanum is Matthieu Malon (born 1972 in Orléans, Loiret, France), a French electronic musician.
His album "Froids", released at Le Village Vert in 2000, had revealed the talents of this author. He had already underlined his desire for venturing on the electronic ways. A profitable meeting with label monopsone enabled him to do a modern version of his parallel project, laudanum.
After the release of an electro synthetic EP ("substracks#2"- mops002 - with Epic45), laudanum continues his collaboration and signs a first album of a great richness with "system:on".
Recorded with the faithful ones of always (PE and Terence Briand), Matthieu enjoys causing improbable as much as unexpected and happy meetings (particularly a collaboration with a well-known member of the Scottish scene, here under the name of Saint-Aidan). Mixing machines and organic matter, this electro dealing with guitars plays with our emotions, from the most cheerful to the most melancholy. We will stamp our feet and let our mind wander.
Laudanum allows Matthieu to express his other passions, in particular his love for the cinema that we share throughout the album. Ten titles and as many borrowings that Matthieu takes a malicious pleasure to unearth.
So after "system:on" and a remixed version of the album "laudanum:remixed", Matthieu is now working on his second album, "your place & time will be mine", which will appear at spring 2006. 13 tracks for the 13th release of monopsone. Lot of collaborations come to enrich laudanum ’s universe : T, Angil, Cavil, Christian Quermalet, Laetitia Sheriff and more. Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/welovelaudanum

3) Laudanum is a darkwave band from Germany. Released three albums: Ijon Tichy (1997), Blinded (2003) and Demoscope (2006). Website: http://www.laudanum-music.de

4) A Belgian band formally known as Laudanum and On Laudanum. Now known as Laudanum Forest.

5) A mysterious black metal band with a hypnotic, low fidelity sound and releases on the Cirsium Kollektivet label. It is unknown how many members are behind this project, or where they are based. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Laudanum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.