“And this voice, this magnificent voice, that unfolds and ripples like the waves of the ocean, with an invigorating saline quality. It seems to consist of healing minerals that could be smeared on the skin.”
Sors-tu.ca, Montreal, 2019

In late 2019, having already toured in Europe earlier in the year, Laura Carbone took her band from their home base in Berlin on their second tour of North America that year. The “Empty Sea – North America Tour” was a 6,000 mile, 15-show, 3-week cross country trek from Los Angeles through the American south and midwest to the East Coast. They finished their stay in the US with a performance in New York before heading up to Canada for a series of shows culminating in a featured performance at the Pop Montreal Festival sharing the bill with luminaries including the legendary Nick Cave and Laurie Anderson. After returning to Berlin and barely over the jetlag, Laura finished off a landmark year with a live nationwide performance on the acclaimed German TV show “WDR Rockpalast” in October, followed by her final concert of the year sharing the main stage at Berlin’s “Synästhesie Festival” with international luminaries The Black Lips, Stereolab, Deer Hunter and A Place To Bury Strangers.
Laura had dedicated 2020 to writing and recording her 3rd studio album before returning to the US for more scheduled shows. Then came Covid, lockdown, standstill. Not content to simply “stand still”, Laura persuaded the decision-makers at WDR to let her release the magnificent Rockpalast performance from the previous year as a live album. She realized that in a time when people had no opportunity to enjoy the experience of a live performance, immersing themselves in the joy and energy of the sound created by such a performance could offer them some solace in the moment, and hope for the future. The album release in December of 2020 was greeted ecstatically by fans and the press around the world, and has so far produced two Top 10 singles on the German Alternative Charts. 
Like most of us, the time in lockdown also led Laura to examine her inner life and priorities. Her desire to spread the healing qualities of music condensed into a resolve to deepen and expand her already considerable knowledge about the subject of how sound frequencies can be applied as “Sound Healing” to restore our sense of balance, physical health and inner peace, and to practice and share this knowledge with others. To this end, she is already working with “Alchemy Crystal Bowls” and collaborating with like-minded artists on ways to consciously integrate healing frequencies into their own live and recorded work in a way that broadens and enriches the music.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Laura+Carbone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.