Magnus Florin / Vocals, Guitars
Ronnie Jaldemark / Guitars, Vocals
Mick Nordström / Drums
Vanja Hadzic / Bass 

http://www.lavaengine.net/

Lava Engine started out as a pop band under the name Drillingholes, this song-based thing with lots of acoustic guitars and flowerish keyboards. With time the band evolved into somewhat of a rock monster where the sound became more electric, heavier and more riff-oriented. This change marked a big difference for the outside listener but to the members of the band it was more like a step back to the roots of what all of them had previously dedicated lots of time into. With all this behind and inside the modern times of heavy rock made input on us all as well which created the Engine that is alive today combining all these elements, from softer singer/songwriter etudes as well as heavier and more complex lines of guitar epics. After a couple of line-up changes and the band by this time consisted of Magnus Florin, Ronnie Jaldemark (System Breakdown), Christian Karlsson and Ian Varjanne. 
 
By the end of 2008, Lava Engine had self-produced a demo, concert outputs as well as airtime. New material was recorded with the purpose of being the next demo-ep, Matchtown Studio (Jönköping, Sweden) recorded drums and mixed by CJ Grimmark of Narnia fame. After this period of time and as the product was finished this marked the change of the line-up with the exchange of a drummer, since then current felt the need to focus on something else rather than the drumming. Shortly after this, a well known face to the band showed up and offered his drumming skills, namely Mick Nordström (Stonfuze, Modest Attraction, Flagship, Spearfish etc etc). From finding the band in somewhat of a panic room this was quite the opposite. Rehearsals felt as good as leaving the ground for the sake of flying. On top of this, after a month the band finally found a true, and most alive, bassplayer in Vanja Hadzic (ex-Maitreya). After one meeting as a four piece everyone knew that this was the new Lava Engine. 
 
So, with the end of 2008 coming up there are a collection of songs being written and rehearsed at the moment. Recordings are to be made and hopefully we are to get out on stage and let you all know what we are trying to do. The way we see it, or the way you see it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/lava+engine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.