There are 9 bands/artists with the name Lava:

1. Lava is an early seventies band from Berlin that in 1973 made one of the best 'rock albums' on the legendary green Brain 1,000-series. The members reputedly lived as a commune. Tears Are Going Home was recorded in Berlin, but mixed at Windrose Studios, Hamburg, by the hard-working Konrad Plank, assisted by Hans Lampe. The seven tracks on the album are extremely varied, covering the important styles of progressive rock of the day: the heavy space style of Hawkwind (on the title track), strange folk-rock ("All My Love To You", "Would Be Better You Run") and West Coast rock ("I'm Just A Mad Dog"). Sadly, no more was ever heard from the band. For many years their album could be acquired quite cheaply, but recently the band seems to have been discovered by collectors and the price has risen. 

2. Lava was a short-lived DIY punk band from Maryland, who put out one 7" record on Gravity Records in the 1990's. The band featured Tonie Joy of The Convocation Of..., Moss Icon, Universal Order of Armageddon, and Born Against on guitar. Their often-overlooked 7" is still available at http://www.gravityrec.com

3. Lava is a rock-based experimental band hailing from Spain. The band is known for its complex, varied, and often cathartic fusion musical arrangements, heavily influenced by pop, post-rock, folk, and traditional Spanish music. Some of the band members also work in other projects. Carlos Timón was born in Madrid, Spain in 1972. In the 90´s he collaborated and worked with such musicians as Javier Gallego (fellow founder of INSECTO), Marcos Monge (RESPECT, AKA FREE), Fran Bell, Javier Adán (ZURE-E-GURA, DEAD CAPO), Javier Díez-Ena, Fernando Alfaro (CHUCHO, SURFIN' BICHOS), Abel Hernández & Diego Yturriaga (MIGALA) and Michel Martín. Carlos played guitar in KEBRANTAS, one of the less conventional bands in the 90´s Spanish scene ("Amateur", Radiation Records 1995).

In 1998, Blue Fish Records released INSECTO´s debut "Love Fiasco". Carlos has also composed his own brand of classical music with a special band, KULU TEMPO, as well under his own name. In recent years, Carlos's work has included sessions with Fran Padilla, Belinda Baxter, Matt Elliot (THIRD EYE FOUNDATION), Mike Cosgrave, and the O´Grady brothers Ciarán and James. Carlos also continues to do a great deal of work with Javier Gallego, Javier Díez-Ena and Javier Adán (all former fellow members of INSECTO), having all of them played on Lava's "SWINGS OF FATE" album. Carlos moved to London, UK, in 1998. 

more info at http://www.pueblorecords.com

4. Lava is a underground Brazillian band a bit inspired on 90's alternative,that gained some recognition with the release of the album "La Motocyclette" and in 2006 they released de album "Shiba".They are currently not working on any new projects.

5. Lava is a Norwegian band. Their first album was released in 1980. They are still playing, and the latest album was released in 2005. Lava is often used as a studio band by several artists with Randy Crawford as the most famous outside Norway.

http://www.lava-music.com/DesktopDefault.aspx

6. Lava is a Turkish band. Their first album was released in 2005 in the USA with the title "Carnaval Del Amor". The album has turkish, spanish and english lyrics. An ethnic-electronic style, a warm Mediterranean breeze, joy, energy, Turkish, English and Spanish! That is Lava for you... Lava, is an Elec-Trip project involving producer Oğuz Kaplangı, arranger Uğurcan Sezen and Ebru Özpirinç who is also known as DJ Enjoy from Turkey’s well known radio, “Radio Oxi-gen”. DJ Enjoy is the singer-songwriter of Lava. Lava combines its original approach to music with different genres, thus creating an interesting fusion, a world sound from Istanbul. 


"Elec-Trip Rec.    Lava : Carnaval del Amor (2005)
Ugurcan Sezen is also known as DJ Enjoy from Radio Oxi-gen, Istanbul. She has a rather special voice which sounds like deeply rooted into Cuban and old ‘40’s jazz, which give a great flavor and colour. Other arrangements are done by Ugurcan Sezen (Spacecake) for the arrangements and Cenk Sarkuş for the rhythmic part. There’s something sunny and fresh breeze Caribbean/Mediterranean about the music, and of course dance beats. It sounds as if a complete band with brass and all is playing along, which I assume is not the case. Typical for the sound of Istanbul, also Turkish instruments are used and an almost jazzy crossover flavor." quoted from:
http://psychevanhetfolk.homestead.com/Turkprogreview1.html

Also check out to listen to Lava:
Lavaistanbul

They are also featured in the compilation album called "Made In Turkey V.2" (2006 - Germany)
Made In Turkey V.2

Made In Turkey V.2

7. Lava was a Lithuanian underground hard rock band.

8. Russian band, look Лава.

9.LAVA is a Composer, DJ and sound producer active in the world music scene with a motif of Latin taste for the club scene. Started his DJ career in London in the late 1990s. Then released 3 original albums around the world. The first album "Aile Alegria" became number 4 on the German floor chart. The best album was released in December 2007, which includes a cover by Incognito, one of the UK's leading artists. In April 2012, the fourth album "4 Vida" was released in eight years. In addition, he has also worked as a sound producer for restaurants, hotels, hair salons, fashion and medical circles, and since 2013 he has been a music producer for Hotel H&R in Roppongi, and since 2014 he has been a general music producer for Tokyu Hands. And the first original album from Tokyu Hands including the theme song of Hands was released. In the winter of 2015, two albums which are nonstop mix of his own original songs were released from Amazon Records. And in June 2019, the fifth album "Som do Verde" was released from his own label "Mundo Novo" launched in the diskunion.And “Som do Verde” album release show at Billboard Live Tokyo was a great success. With his sound style that develops music as if it were an interior, he has established a solid position as a music selector and the offers from all kinds of fields are limitless. He will continue to actively communicate and relate to the world through music.

more info here:  lava.jp  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lava">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.