LAVOS BECKON is a Dark, Heavy, Epic Power Metal band formed in September 2003 from the Philippines.

Their music combines heavy rhythms, speed, intricate dynamics, haunting melodies, epic song-writing, and soaring vocals to craft an outcome that is truly, an aural assault of everything from either extreme end, not to mention all else in between.

They started using the name "Lavos Beckon" when they were trying their luck at local band competitions back in 2003. Later that same year, the band started writing their own material and found themselves playing live gigs around Metro Manila at underground Metal shows, leaving the name "Lavos Beckon" instilled in the minds of those that stood witness of the band's unique brand of Metal.

The band released their demo EP "What Was. What Is. What Will Be." on February 2008. They also contributed the then demo version of their song "...No Bar To My Call" to a couple of underground Metal compilation albums. The EP, which is now out of print, containing demo recordings of their songs "...No Bar To My Call" and "Red And Black: Carnage And Curse", has been greatly appraised by Filipino Metal Magazine, Vol. 1 No. 1, June 2009 issue. The following are excerpts from the "What Was. What Is. What Will Be." EP review. 

Indeed, like a battle-tested suit of armor, LAVOS BECKON has been hammered, seared, and pierced countless times, but still remains unyielding and whole. Still beckoning for the harder battles to come, for the real "first step" on its journey has just been taken.

Lavos Beckon’s band members came and were gone as years passed. Every scar proved to be blessings in disguise because it gave them growth and strength, as individual musicians, but, more so, as a tight assemblage. The band has continued to mature throughout the years, to get to where they can really say that they will finally be at par with what the whole Metal world’s ears can listen to and take pleasure in.

With Kevin Arnedo on drums, Butch Opinion on guitars, Dart Trinidad on bass, and Gary Sumalde on vocals and guitars, the four would persevere more and more to carry out its quest: To put the Philippines on the map of the whole Metal world, and to make more Filipinos appreciate and support their local Metal music. The band’s ground-breaking debut album, "Wars Fought With The Heron-Marked Blade", was released on April 13, 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lavos+Beckon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.