There are multiple artists with the name Lawn. 

1. An American Indie Rock trio of Mac Folger (guitar, vocals), Rui De Magalhães (bass, vocals), and Jamie Joyce (percussion, vocals) based in New Orleans, Louisiana. Their sound is influenced by New Zealand's Dunedin Sound,  Jangle Pop, as well as psychedelic pop. Their debut album "Blood on the Tracks" was released May 11, 2018.

2. A Dutch Alternative Rock band formed in 1997.

"..organic, full of contrasts and searching.. Lawn creates adventures on electric guitars.."    

With this quote the biggest music magazine in Holland tried to nail down the sound of Lawn's second album 'Backspace'. Categorized as alternative-postrock, Lawn established themselves with this record as being one of the leading indiebands in the Netherlands; thriving on atmosphere but with a strong focus on melodies and dynamics. 'Backspace' has proven that an album can be very diverse, changing from density to transparency, from raw and unrefined to smooth and catchy sounds. The song ‘Fix’ combined it all in just 4 minutes and -with its  release- it became the underground-hit Lawn was hoping for. The band backed up it with extensive touring through Holland, Germany and Belgium.    

Recent past: 2007/2008  With new songs up their sleeve, the band also started thinking about a more solid production. The goal was not to give in on the atmosphere lawn-music seems to create, but to put more emphasis on the songstructures and melodies, letting the best parts stand out. With some advise from Robin Proper-Sheppard (Sophia, God Machine) on the pre-production side, Lawn hit the studio with well-known producers Phil Vinall (dEUS, Placebo, Radiohead) and Pieter Kloos (Motorpsycho) to achieve their new targets. Both carefully selected on their work so far, this duo matched the ideas of the band perfectly to bring the new songs to the next level. After long and hard work, ‘Silver’ was the result. In 2008 Lawn focused on promoting this new album in the BENELUX. 

Now: 2009
After its (recent) release may 2009 by MakeMyDayRecord/Starkult, ‘Silver’ already received plenty of critical acclaim in the German media (Intro, Visions, etc.). In May/June Lawn will do a brief tour visiting the bigger cities of Germany. Since Lawn wants to put much emphasis on this release in Germany they will present themselves more persistently in September/October with a longer tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.