There is more than one artist that performs with the name "Lawrence":

1) Lawrence (Musician): Peter Kersten (AKA Lawrence, AKA Sten) used to be a gardener. His love of nature imbues a wistful spirit into his minimal techno structures, and a sense of organic progression is evident in all of his music. Having started the Dial label in Hamburg with his friends Carsten Jost and Turner, he became a producer of minimal club music that is equally apt for the dancefloor and the armchair. Some of Kersten’s favorite artists include Theo Parrish, Gas, and Isolée, a fact that tells of the many shades to be found in his work as Lawrence.

Following numerous EPs and two full-lengths spanning the labels Kompakt, Ladomat 2000, and his own Dial, Kersten released his incredible Spark EP on Ghostly International in the fall of 2004. Spark asserts a mastery of atmospheres, serving as a convincing argument that dance beats have a versatility that makes them immensely relevant and undeniably enjoyable in any setting. In Spring 2005, Lawrence released The Night Will Last Forever, his third album and first for Novamute.

2) Lawrence (Band): As NPR writes, “siblings Clyde and Gracie Lawrence are not your typical pair.” Clyde Lawrence, 24, and Gracie Lawrence, 21, have been writing songs and listening to countless Stevie Wonder, Randy Newman, and Aretha Franklin records together in the living room of their family’s New York City apartment since they were little kids.  After years of playing together, they officially created Lawrence, an eight-piece soul-pop band comprised of powerhouse musicians who happen to be their best friends from childhood and college. The keyboard-driven rhythm section and tight energetic horns create dynamic arrangements to support Clyde and Gracie’s explosive lead vocals and catchy melodies. http://lawrencetheband.com/bio/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lawrence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.