Lazarus Blackstar are a 5 piece doom metal/sludge outfit hailing from Bradford, UK.

In the process of writing Khang's 2nd LP the music was getting darker, doomier, and more intense. At this point the singer, Bryan Outlaw, disliked the direction that the music was going (too slow, too heavy) and quit the band. The others decided to carry on regardless and recorded the album (music only) during the summer of 2004.

Whilst searching for a new singer they heard from a mutual friend that Paul Catten (who they'd admired as a vocalist) was at a loose end, so they posted a CD of the album and when he heard it (30 seconds into the first track), he said "I NEED to be involved!"

In September 2004 Paul came up and recorded vocals on two tracks. This worked really well and surpassed all of the band's expectations. His vocal style suited the direction the band wanted to go; nastier, angrier and heavier. At this point it was agreed that there was a need for a name change, as the feel was very much different to that of Khang and Lazarus Blackstar was born.

The album was finished in February 2005 and after some interest from a few labels the band decided to sign a deal with Undergroove Records, as Darren Sadler; the label boss, had done stuff previously for Khang.

"Revelations" was released in July 2005 with a very good response and has received many excellent reviews.

In March 2006 Rich Savage was replaced by Izak (ex Chorus of Ruin, Silverburn) on 2nd guitar duties. His input so far has been excellent and the band as a whole now seems to be on the same wavelength.

In 2007 the 2nd full-length album "Funeral Voyeur" was released.

In February 2008 Paul Catten quit Lazarus Blackstar due to a mix of personal reasons and living 200 miles away from the rest of the band, he has since been replaced by a new set of lungs courtesy of Mik Hell. With him the band recorded their latest release until now, the EP "Tomb of Internal Winter".

The rest of the band consists of Lee Baines on guitars, Bri Doom on bass and Gordon Wilkinson on drums.

Their official site is http://www.lazarusblackstar.com/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lazarus+Blackstar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.