The story of Le Butcherettes starts in 2008 with: KISS & KILL EP conceived in a homemade way thing that rapidly attracted the media and hundreds of people that became hardcore fans of this group. A year later the independent/underground industry of Mexico acknowledged their work awarding them the titles of “Best Punk Record” and “Best New Artist."

At the end of 2008 Teri Gender Bender, drummer Normandi and Omar Rodríguez López meet and from that moment on the project would change.

In october of 2009 the music of Le Butcherettes got to Jack White who decides to invite the band as opening act for the two shows that The Dead Weather presented in Mexico. Le Butcherettes surprised the audience that assisted to those shows reassuring that this project was the most unpredictable and badass act that exists in the Mexican musical scene.

In January of 2010, the members moved to Zapopan, Jalisco for 1 week to start recording the new album "SIN SIN SIN" produced by Omar Rodríguez López. The magic and passion flooded the studio getting as an outcome 13 songs that will take part of the debut album of this band.

The good news kept on coming for Le Butcherettes, during the last day of the recording of SIN SIN SIN the New Yorker band Yeah Yeah Yeahs invited them to participate in the tour they would be doing in Mexico offering them to open for all 3 dates. Le Butcherettes opened succesfuly all 3 shows surprising the media, all 25 thousand people that atended the show and even the same members of Yeah Yeah Yeahs that manifested their admiration towards them.

The first tour for SIN SIN SIN started on one of the most important festivals in Latin America: Vive Latino, where Le Butcherettes performed their new material to the Mexican audience awakening an interest in the entire crowd, they went onto also play the main stage at Corona Capital Festival. Changes came in 2011 -  Teri Gender Bender moved back to the USA, parting ways with Normandi and recruiting drummer Gabe Serbian and Jonathan Hishcke on bass. The new band lineup will tour in May & June 2011 with Deftones & The Dillinger Escape Plan to promote the album Sin Sin Sin that will be out worldwide on May 10, 2011 on Rodriguez Lopez Productions via Sargent House. Welcome to the new SIN SIN SIN era.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Le+Butcherettes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.