There are several artists who go by Leaf. Hierarchy according to number plays:

1) LeaF is a Japanese doujin artist who creates melodic breakcore music for various BMS events.

2) Leaf is a collaboration between Steve Wick, DJ Eric Dove and members of Biogliphic, 32nd Kalpa, Blunt Force, and other Dallas, TX area producers. A melding of dirty hip hop rhythm, crystalline melodies, insane sampling, and smooth organic instrumentation. Consistently dark and weighty, Leaf's compositions bring to mind some of the best abstract trip hop artists [DJ Shadow, DJ Signify, Blockhead, Subtle, Tricky], but their keen sense of place and mood, and unexpected uplifting moments set Leaf apart as something worth noticing.

3)  Leaf was a Dutch popband, consisting of Annemarie (vocals) Tienus (vocals, beatbox), Joni (bass), Ocker (guiter) and Jeroen (percussion). Graduates of the Rockacademy Tilburg, Leaf played hunderds of small gigs before recording their album "Life's a Beach", fittingly recorded at the Dutch beach. The album was released in August 2007, preceded by their first single Wonderwoman. Said single won Leaf an award for being the most-played song on Dutch national radio in 2007. The album spawned two more singles: New Song and Motherfucker. On January 12, 2009, Leaf unexpectedly announced to break up due to "artistical differences".
 
4) Leaf is the name of a japanese entertainment company which released famous PC Games in Japan.

5) Leaf are an alternative rock band from Bolton, England.

6) Leaf were a four piece rock band based in London. Their EP was the first release on independent UK label You And Whose Army? Records. The band duly disanded in late 2002 when bassist Alex moved back to Italy and the remaining members went away to join secret societies, discover new continents and enrol with NASA.  Their "A Taste Of Whats To Come" remains a testament to their Pixies-meets-Lou Reed sound and is available at You And Whose Army? Records (yawarecords.com) and through the memebers if you find them.

7) Leaf were an indie, alternative rock band from Poland, who released their EP in late February, 2007. "EP07" followed their two singles "4.28 am. tonight" (2001) and "Jeśli tylko chcesz" (2003) and a debut album, called "Album" (2003). http://myspace.com/leafspace. 

8) Leaf is an Electro/IDM artist from Thessaloniki, Greece. He also owns a record label called "From A Tree" from whitch he is releasing his albums. His sound can be described as cinematic and in some parts ambient.

9) Leaf is a swedish DJ and drum & bass producer, who lately been moving towards dubstep.

10) Leaf or L.E.A.F. is a Dutch folk band with medieval instruments and female vocals, fronted by Kaat Geevers
http://www.leaf-music.com/ . 


11 LEAF is a female rapper from Brooklyn, NY who raps over club, jersey, dubstep, and vogue instrumentals. She has released mixtapes such as Naked & Wasted (2013) which contains songs like 'Dum Dum', 'Running', 'Ride or Die'. Her soundcloud is https://soundcloud.com/itsmeleaf

12) LEAF are a duo Punk band from Caldas da Rainha, Portugal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Leaf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.