There are several artists with this name: 1. A thrash metal band from Astoria, New York, 2. A Japanese melodic punk rock band, 3. A US battle rapper, 4. A composer and producer from LA, 5. A hip-hip producer from Gweru, Zimbabwe.

1. Leeway was formed in Astoria, New York, USA in 1984 by guitarist A.J. Novello and vocalist Eddie Sutton under the name The Unruled. They played alongside groups such as Crumbsuckers, Prong, Ludichrist, Bad Brains, and Sick Of It All at the predominantly hardcore punk-oriented CBGB venue and had metal influences from the start. Guitarist and songwriter A.J. Novello said:

“ We might have helped open up a can of worms by bringing suburban metalheads to shows. Years later, it kind of ruined things in the scene, but I can't say I have any regrets.” 

The fact that the band experimented with sound, had two guitarists riffing and solo-ing between them and the singer dressed in skeleton outfits and Yankees uniforms also set them out from the rest of the hardcore punk scene.

In November 1987 they entered the Normandy Sound studio in Warren, Rhode Island and recorded their first album, Born to Expire. However, due to delays and postponements, the album was not released until January 1989. Three follow-ups ensued – Desperate Measures, Adult Crash, and Open Mouth Kiss – before the band split. They recently reformed.

--

2. Japanese melodic punk rock band LEEWAY is:

G&Vo: Ingrid "Hangover Girl" Elias (イングリッド＊エリアス)
Ba: Matty "不良外人" Nusko （マット＊ナスコ)
Gt: Mall "Beer Wolf" Higashi (東キョウヘイ）
Dr&Vo: Atsushi "Speed Red" Okubo (大久保篤)

LEEWAY is from Kochi and Tokushima Prefectures in Japan.
leeway.bandcamp.com

--

3. An American battle rapper.

--

4. LEEWAY Music is a composer, musician, and music producer from Los Angeles, CA.

--

5. Leeway Theway is a hip-hop producer from Gweru, Zimbabwe. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Leeway">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.