Left In Ruins may be 1 of 4 bands:

1. The History. September 2004 marks the inception. Over the course of the last five years, Left in Ruins has sought long and hard to find the most brutally talented musicians. Threw Luigi Cilento (Vocals/Guitar), Jorge Naranjo (Lead Guitar), Jaymz Delisle (Guitar), Mike Velasquez (Bass), [now currently Tom-Bass] 
and Ben Policello (Drums), into a blender with Iron Maiden, Mastodon, Lamb of God, Slayer, Metallica, Black Sabbath, and Pantera, and you will be left ‘with a ferocious blend of groove-based death metal and thuggish hardcore.’ – Metal Hammer

Left In Ruins have recently shared the studio with producer, Billy Graziadei (Biohazard, Suicide City), to fully execute their debut album, Straight Out Out Hell. Not only does this album ‘…give equal nods to NYDM godfathers Suffocation and the Producer’s usual associates,’ but ‘Each song packs an arsenal of certifiably heavy riffs…’ – Metal Hammer Straight Out Of Hell was released in August of 2008, and was the follow up to their 2006 Self Titled, Self Produced, demo.

Left In Ruins has gone full throttle by taking part in the Sinister Music compilation album series, which was distributed by Mistress Juliya, former host of "Slave to the Metal" on Fuse TV. In addition, they have been featured on "The Underground Thrashold" and "60 Minutes of Mostly Metal" television programs, and have received frequent airplay on 89.5 FM WSOU's "Street Patrol" program. As for press coverage, Left In Ruins have been under the radar, as they have been featured in the March '07, and Halloween '07 issues of Metal Maniacs magazine, as well as the November 2008 issue of Metal Hammer, along with several local publications including More Sugar and Upstate Metal magazines.

Clearly, no amateur could possibly share the stage with acts such as Testament, The Misfits, Exodus, Soulfly, Cradle Of Filth, The Black Dahlia Murder, Municipal Waste, Overkill, Amon Amarth, Unearth, Joey Belladonna of Anthrax, Behemoth, Prong, Gojira, Subzero, Psychostick, Goatwhore, 1349, Nachtmystuim, Chris Caffery, Doro Pesch, Epica, The Agonist, Toxic Holocaust, Skeleton Witch, Job For A Cowboy, Himsa, The Spyderz, Warbringer, Arsis, Bloodclot!, 25 Ta Life, Monstrosity, Vital Remains, Mortician, and Cthonic. 


2. Left In Ruins was a Hardcore band formed in Richmond,VA . This band existed from 1995-1998 and released one album only, a split 12" with defunct Screamo band, Amalgamation from D.C.


3. Left In Ruins are also an hardcore band from Italy. They started to play in 2011 in Trento, with members of italian hardcore bands such as Crop Circles, The Consequence, Congegno. They played an european tour and many shows in Italy, and released an 8 songs tape.

4. Grinding Swedish hardcore thrash; features members of Sewn Shut and Widespread Bloodshed. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Left+In+Ruins">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.