There are (at least) six bands with this name.

1) A Hardcore band from the Toronto area.
They released a split with Ochre, a split with Acrid, a live split with Chokehold, a live LP from 2004, and a Discography CD on No Idea, maybe some other stuff. Members went on to play in Countdown to Oblivion, Haymaker, Cursed, Pick Your Side, Burning Love and The Swarm. A remixed discography 12" entitled "Devoid of Everything" was released in 2013 on A389 Recordings. The band also played shows in Toronto and Hamilton prior and after the shows in Baltimore respectively. They are active again and writing new material with mostly original members.

The 2013 lineup consists of-

Chris Colohan (Burning Love, Cursed) - Vocals
Jeff Beckman (Pick Your Side, Haymaker) - Guitar
Joel Fisher (Legion 666) - Guitar
Willem-Jan (Insult NL) - Bass
Curtis Gordon (Haymaker) - Drums

2) Left For Dead was a band initially made up of former Queen Anne's Revenge singer Eddie Gowan, former Trouble Tribe guitarist Adam Wacht, former Saigon Kick bassist Tom Defile (who later briefly rejoined Saigon Kick, along with guitarist Jeff Blando), and former Beggars & Thieves drummer Bobby Borg.

Adam Wacht and Bobby Borg also played together in a side band called Opinion.

Adam Wacht was replaced in Left For Dead by guitarist Jeff Blando, who later played for Slaughter and Saigon Kick (along with bassist Tom Defile).

Jeff Blando was later replaced by James Hogan, who later played with Matt Mercado in his band Pivotman, and with Chuck Schuldiner of Death.

The band mutually disbanded in 1995, and Bobby Borg joined Warrant, which he has since left.

Left For Dead released an album called Beatings From Orlando.

3) A horror punk band from Utah who recently made their first full length "It Begins..." on Dr. Cyclops Records, and they also currently have a free EP avaliable.

4) Left For Dead (originally Twelfth Of Never) was a metalcore band from East Stroudsburg, PA. Members from A Burden Called Aimara, Bring The Fists, Paid In Blood, Afterella, Burn The Yearbook). 

5) A 3 piece power trio from the south east coast of england reminiscent of leatherface. A 2006 CD "All Yeast'N'Cider" available on their website.
UK D.I.Y PUNK BAND
Left for Dead staggered into the uk punk scene in 1996 performing there first gig alongside The restarts and Hellkrusher at the Acton Arms in Hackney. This was quickly followed by numerous gig offers and from then on in it has been one long manic journey. They have done tours in Germany, Czech republic and the UK. They have released numerous records along the way including splits with the Restarts and Zemesluc fron Czech Republic. They started by recording several demos off there own on cassette and from there progressed to recording there first full cd which was imaginatively called "DEMO". After this they had a 7" released on Gas records in Germany called "fuck your Authority" and have recently released a new album on there own dead records label called "All yeast n Cider" There music can best be described as old skool punk rock with a melodic but still agressive edge. There interests include caravans ,tattoos< canoes and anything else that ends in ooze. They are currently looking for gigs anywhere in the galaxy including Belgium and Wales and can be contacted via this page; http://www.myspace.com/leftfordeadukok

6) A Death/Grind band from Rottweil, Germany. They were formed in 2009 and released one demo, "Brute Force" in 2010, and one full-length album called "Exit Humanity" in 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Left+for+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.