The foundation-stone of Legenda Aurea was laid in august of 2005 when Renato Trinkler and Martin Roth united to create a new band. Even without knowing what was going to happen, the main aspects of the musical concepts were clear: 

A blending of Symphonic Metal with Opera chant. The searching for the needed members had its first result with Melissa Derrer, who, thanks to her professional voice, immediately was engaged. A little later Odilo von Ins joined the band. Von Ins, in spite of his young age, brought the necessary guitaristic competence.The only thing missing now was a bass, which after some weeks was found in Michael Herkenrath. Thanks to his fast musical understanding. Less than  a month was needed for Legenda Aurea to be able to record the first single. This single was directly sent to Quam Libet Records to snatch a place on the famous Sampler "Heavy Metal Nation III". The band was accommodated on the CD. The reactions of the Webzines exceeded all expectations of the band, but still the hunger of success wasn't satisfied: In august 2006 Legenda Aurea entered the studio of the ambitious producer Christian Graf (who in the course of time became more and more important for the band) to record the debutalbum. During this time the music of the band changed, not least because of the unlimited radiographic technique and  the equipment which was provided by Christian Graf. Thanks to this mix of musicians, who came together from very different branches of metal now melted together into one iron core, the music became more mature and elaborated. The band also moved away from the now too maintstream affected HMN III track "Sedna." At that point everything seemed to good to be true, and the cracks in the band began to show: As most of the traces were recorded, the first misunderstandings between Melissa Derrer and the rest of the band appeared. These misunderstandings became intolerable very fast, and the leaving of Melissa Derrer became indispensable. The band was abruptly brought back to reality, which had a positive effect on them.The band never considered breaking apart, and so hey were forced to begin searching for a new vocalist. Surprisingly fast a new voice was found in Claudia Hofer, who exceeded all expectations. Immediately the band resumed work on the debutalbum, to which album contributed a surprising amount, forming what Legenda Aurea is today: From calm, symphonical singing passages over brute riffs, virtuosic instrumental solos and intricate rhythms to the point of groovy, dragging basslines and fast speedmetal passages, everything is contained in the debut album "Sedna", and that is what makes Legenda Aurea unique: The enormously complexity without anything ever falling out of concept. On the album everything is contained but everything always in its place.

After some solemnised concerts in German-speaking Switzerland (including gigs with Nocturnal Rites (SWE) and Thunderstone (FIN)) and two line-up changes (Phillip Eichenberger, drums / Simone Christinat, vocals), they started working on their second album "Ellipsis". The music got heavier and more unique, and the band has developed itself further. The recordings for "Ellipsis" were done in Orebro, (SWE) at the Fascination Street Studios, where also Opeth, Amon Amarth, Symphony X and Pain of Salvation hammered their records. For 2009, the band has big plans: While being successful with "Ellipsis", there shall be as many concerts as possible to promote their album and the band itself.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Legenda+Aurea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.