There are five artists with the name Leisure:

1) LEISURE is a band from New Zealand that launched on SoundCloud in 2015 with 'Got It Bad.'  https://soundcloud.com/theleisurecollective

Made up of five independently talented and successful members who were looking for a new creative outlet unconstrained by over-thinking, over-planning, and excessive control; LEISURE are an anomaly in the music industry. This unusual melting-pot of contributions means LEISURE is greater than the sum of its parts, each member bringing different influences from 70s funk, to 90s rap and R&B, all the way to dance music from the early 2000s. Each member also brings a different skill set – strong pop song writing sensibilities, experimental production techniques, and the talent to mix and master their own work.

Having amassed over 60 million streams on their debut album, which entered at #2 in the NZ charts, they have built a rabid fan following that has seen their very occasional live shows sell out and become the stuff of legends – recently performing their debut, backed by the 72-piece Auckland Philharmonic Orchestra, to a sold-out Auckland Town Hall.

Their music has become a staple in the sync world, they have collaborated with hip-hop star, Goldlink, and have now signed globally to US / UK record label Nettwerk for their forthcoming album.

Their self-titled debut album release was critically acclaimed and with their sophomore album complete, fans worldwide continue to connect with their manifesto of living the good life, and their over-riding code to “keep things LEISURE”.

2) Leisure is a band from Boston, MA consisting of Jed Rouhana, Sam Hamad, and Chris Link. The three members played in bands together since High School. In 2010, they gave a demo CD to JR White of the San Francisco band Girls, during one of Girls' Boston shows. The CD included "It's Alright (On The Suez Canal)". White subsequently invited Leisure to open on their US tour. After touring, Leisure began work on their debut album "Plastic Soul", which they self-produced. The album is set to be released in 2012. More information can be found on their official website,www.leisureofficial.com and facebook page, www.facebook.com/leisuremusic

3) Leisure featured Middle Class Rut hitmakers Zack Lopez and Sean Stockham and a rotating cast of singers. The earliest incarnation of the band, which included D. Scott Sault, who would later front the short-lived Atlantic Records act Quitter, self-released an EP, Polygraph Alliance, in 1999. After Sault's departure the band briefly included Die Trying (Island) frontman Jassen Jensen. The band eventually landed a deal with Dreamworks, then fronted by Darren, and, shortly thereafter, at least briefly, ex-Hotwire frontman Rus Martin stepped in. The band's one and only national tour was opening for CKY. No word on if an album was ever completed, though several demos, some more impressive ("Deathtrap") than others, do exist. 

4) Leisure was formed 1998 in New York City. They play non-Britpop and sing about faith, hope and love. Drew sings/play guitar, Peter plays keys/sings, Steve plays bass and Ted plays guitar/sings. They had recorded 2 EP’s (Occasional Music 1.0 & 2.0) with SoundOptik (Ryan Adams, The Strokes, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Jon Spencer Blues Explosion), Jesse Sprinkle (Poor Old Lu, Serene UK, Starflyer 59) and Andrew D. Prickett (The Violet Burning, Cush, The Prayer Chain). Their music can be heard on XM Satellite Radio.

5) Leisure is still a young band but has some experience however. Formed in November 2004 with the idea of playing only covers. In view of the result of exalting rehearsals, the band decided quickly, under the impulse of Francois, the bands songwriter, to create a set entirely made of their own compositions. The band chose clearly its style, under the British influence and sensitive to each decade (from The Beatles, the Kinks to The Libertines as well as Oasis). Leisure is made up of five members : a drummer with a heavy strike (Nessim, 23), a bassist who gives a certain feminine touch to the band (Coralie, 19), a rhythmical thorough guitarist (Nicolas, 22), a soloist gifted guitarist (Francois, 21) and a charismatic singer (Siamack, 20). The year 2005 has meant toil for the band, accumulating compositions and hours of intensive rehearsals. The band performed at that time in the main venues of Bordeaux, like lInca, lAssonette, la Centrale and some open air gigs like the participation to the festival « Tête de lArt ». At the end of the year, Leisure recorded his first demo called « Shoots in the Streets », recorded and mixed by Kim, produced by the band itself and containing five of their songs played live. The year 2006 is promising for the band which had the honor to play in renowned places such as lHeretic et le SonArt, still improving their set on stage and their compositions. They were also broadcasted several times on radios, like Radio Sauvagine (94.9 FM). After having had the ambition to be known in Bordeaux, the band thinks of exporting itself little by little in whole France. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Leisure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.