At least 3 artists use the name of Lemuria.

1. An indie rock/pop-punk trio from Buffalo, NY.
2. A symphonic metal band from Belgium.
3. A soul, jazz, funk, latin band.

1. An indie rock/pop-punk trio from Buffalo, NY. Formed in 2004 the band have toured extensively over the last few years and have built up a strong following in the US and are slowly becoming more well known in the UK and Europe. Their influences include bands such as Jawbreaker, Superchunk, The Wipers and The Lemonheads. They have put out a self-released demo, a 7" EP, three splits with the bands Frame, Kind Of Like Spitting and The Ergs! and a 7" single all on the Buffalo based indie label Art of the Underground. They were also featured on the Crafty Records NY vs NJ compilation. Their latest releases are their first full length album Get Better released on Californian DIY label Asian Man Records and a compilation of early and out of print material called The First Collection (YoYo Records and later on Asian Man Records). Members are: Sheena Ozzella - Guitar/Vocals who used to sing in Team Chocolate and Splag, Alex Kerns - Drums/Vocals who has just started to record a solo side project (a 7" is expected to be released on Art of the Underground in the not too distant future) and Jason Draper who was brought in after original bassist Adam Vernick left the band shortly after recording the demo, Jason also plays in The Failure's Union.

2. A black metal influenced folk metal band from Antwerp, Belgium, formed in 2001. They released a demo called ‘The Vault of the Witness’ in 2002 and the album Tales, Ale and Fire in 2004. Lemuria  broke up on Sunday, August 20th 2006, but then magically resurfaced in 2008. On November 11th 2010 Lemuria released a brand new concept album called 'Chanson the la Croisade'. Mixing heavy music with orchestral, bombastic scores and daring instrumental and symphonic parts and running for over an hour in total, the self-released album takes the listener on an epic journey trough medieval France, during the age of the crusades. The album was Recorded at Midas and Red Left Hand studios and mastered by Peter in de Betou (Dimmu Borgir, Septic Flesh), with cover art by the acclaimed Flemish artist Kris Verwimp.

3. A soul, jazz, funk, latin band put together by producer Kirk Thompson and released one self titled album in 1979 on the Heaven label.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lemuria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.