Len Faki (also known under his long-term pseudonym lamonde) was born and raised in the South of Germany where he started his career as successful producer of electronic music. He took his first steps towards international reputation in the mid-90s with his project Lexicon on the renowned House Label Plastic City before he founded two highly acclaimed Techno labels: Monoid and Feis. With innovative productions and sophisticated concepts he soon attracted artists such as Umek, Samuel L. Session and Oxia (Monoid) or John Selway, The Hacker and Bolz Bolz (Feis), who released numerous 12inches, albums and mix compilations on his labels. 

In 2001, he released (under the pseudonym lamonde on Feis) his debut album „Music For Some Place Other Than This“ which gained him features in all important German magazines as well as in de:bug. This highly-respected magazine for „the electronic aspects in life“ portrayed him as one of the pioneering artists to lead Techno on to new directions, praising his style as „amalgamation and destroying of seemingly opposing elements“, which in a thoroughly positive sense is „based on state-of-the-art technology“. His DJ mix compilation „Lamonde At The Wheels of Steel“ (August 2002) showcases his distinctive lamonde style by presenting personal favourites from the Techno legacy next to topical productions at the time. 

As Len Faki he has been making his reputation over the last two years. His releases on Superbra (Switzerland), GoodLife (France) and Terminal M (Berlin) can be characterised by a combination of bass line oriented percussion and pounding grooves. 

His move to Berlin at the beginning of 2003 marked a decisive turning-point in his music and business career. With Len Series he founded an independent mother label set up as a trademark for innovative and daring Techno sounds – urging to dance, full of untamable energy and strongly aimed at the club. His concept with succeeding filial labels demonstrates his open-mindedness for diverse shades and facets of club and dance culture while also offering the opportunity to playfully explore his musical depths and overall creativity. Right with his first offshoot, Len Series label Figure (offering warm sounds in spite of its tough and cool productions), he stormed the bags, cases and charts of top DJs/producers such as  Umek, Ben Sims, Monika Kruse and Marco Bailey.

As a DJ, Len Faki has made a strong appearance at top venues such as Ostgut (Berlin), Tresor and U60 (Frankfurt) as well as top events such as „Sonne, Mond & Sterne Festival“ (which translates as „Sun, Moon & Stars festival“), Alive Festival (Belgium). His bone-dry but communicative DJ style mark him as a true gentleman behind the turntables while his DJ sets are based on passion, surprising elements and distinctive individual aesthetics. Len Faki who outside the Techno scene is considered a gourmet in his own quiet way devours club music as basic nutrition and source for his overwhelming energy.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Len+Faki">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.