The band Lene Kosti (Lazy Bones) has been formed in 1978, making it the first ever Heavy Metal band in Slovenia. Lene Kosti gained true prominence and cult status with a line-up change in 1985, when the vocalist Milan Krušič joined the band. With his distinct vocals as well as charismatic stage appearance Milan established Lene Kosti at the forefront of the budding Heavy Metal scene in Slovenia as well as an influence for other heavy metal bands in Slovenia. In this period Lene Kosti published their first tape, which became a true collector piece for heavy metal fans in Slovenia. It might seem that everything went well, but being a bunch of leather clad, long haired guys playing LOUD heavy metal with lyrics in ENGLISH didn’t go well with the communist regime, ruling with an iron fist and determined to keep away all decadent western influences. Police interrogations, censorship, prohibition of concerts were the order of the day, making it more and more difficult to perform. In 2008, to mark the 30th anniversary of the formation, Lene Kosti regrouped and because of the enthusiasm of old as well as new fans decided to continue where they left of some twenty years before. Since then Lene Kosti played many concerts in Slovenia as well as Austria, the culmination being special guest performers at the concert of Grave Digger in Ljubljana, Slovenia. At this particular concert, Manni Schmidt from Grave Digger joined Lene Kosti on stage to play with them their most popular song Russian Girl. Lene Kosti have just published their first CD, a collection of demo tracks recorded in the eighties, and are on their way to the studio to record their first proper CD, scheduled to be released in winter. The CD will include guest performances of some of the top German Heavy Metal players – let their names remain a secret – this fact alone testifying to the power and magic of Lene Kosti <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lene+Kosti">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.