There are several artists with the name Leo:

1. Leo (레오) is a K-pop artist. He was born in Seoul, South Korea in 1990. He is a member of the boy band VIXX and its sub-unit VIXX LR. His solo debut album was Canvas in 2018.

2. Leo "La Bestia" Jiménez (1979, Fuenlabrada), is a Spanish heavy metal singer who is currently playing for Stravaganzza and previously worked for Saratoga. Leo also plays the guitar, and has been credited as one of the best Spanish heavy metal singers. His solo band is LEO:037

3.  Leo Moracchioli is a musician from Norway and producer based in Oltedal. A multi-instrumentalist, he is known for his crazy metal covers of popular songs. He runs a studio in Norway called Frog Leap Studios.

4. Swedish hiphop artist a former member of Mobbade Barn Med Automatvapen.  

5.  Leo is performing now since he was fourteen. He sang in the Opera of Vienna with Placido Domingo. Then he changed from classical music to jazz and afterwards too R&B and Britpop. Now he is starting to create his own style. He achieves to keep his songs on an international level although he let a lot of Austrian influences come in, to his songs. His First Single succeeded immediately, and could be find in the Austrian Charts. His got Singing lessons by Mark Murpy-best Jazz singer 2003, Dave Stroud, (teacher of Ray Charles , All Jarreau), Dean Kealin-teacher of Stevie Wonder, Mariah Carey. He was performing on the Stages before Rod Stewart, Rednex, Simple Minds, Right Says Fred, Papermoon, Chris Norman. He was also elected to the Poprookie, Best newcomer of Austria. He plays Guitar, Keyboard, Violin. Furthermore he is a talented songwriter and producer and is of course a trained singer. 

6. German band playing inspired 70's hard rock.

7. Leo Zethraeus from Lund, Sweden, playing artmusic, singersongwriter, indiepop or what you want to call it. Singer in The Lovers and Hjälp & Support.

8. Bosnian pop folk singer Amir Kazić Leo.

9. Alt rock group orginally from St. Louis, Missouri signed with Dreammakers. First album on the label is called "Nightmares."

10. A Christian band based out of Kenosha, WI fronted by lead singer David Duffield. This band first went on tour January 2010 with Nineball and Sent By Ravens. Their first release was "Colors" and features songs such as "Seventeen" and "Stars & Satelites".

11.  Leo is a Dutch rapper from the "Nouveau Riche" formation, who's known for his Impressive speed in rapping

12. Leo is a Japanese R&B Singer that sing with the SUGER SHACK FAMILY. His latest album is titled "One Voice".

13. Leo is the best Czech rapper and probably the only one who is trying to do something new on the scene.

14. Solo artist name of Leonore Bartsch formerly of German girl group Queensberry.

15. A finnish singer Leo Armas Stillman, the frontman of  Face Of God.

16. LEO is a pop rock band based in Adelaide, Australia (website). Members are Tom Montesi, Jae Curtis, Ilia Martini, and Matt Schirripa.

17. Leo Konno plays the koto, a traditional Japanese stringed instrument. He was born in 1998 in Yokohama, Japan to a Japanese mother and an American father. He has a website at https://leokonno.com/en/. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Leo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.