Leonidas started out in the summer of  '04 as an emo/ pop rock group from Morrow/Maineville, Ohio.  Within less than a year the band found their niche and began to create their own sound of classic rock with new age pop. After a series of line up changes, the band finally fell into place in '06 when they found their lead singer, Danny Padro, aka, "Indi". With this they took on an even more mature sound and hit the studio for the first time together, recording their only album together, "Speak for Yourself". The album got them some attention locally, but an even greater amount outside the Ohio state lines. The summer of '07, Leonidas received a phone call from a producer in Nashville by the name of Pat Holt, whom had recorded artists such as Johnny Cash and Carrie Underwood, and a plethora of artists under Capitol Records. So Leonidas set out to Nashville only two weeks after the call and started recording new music with Pat in his Nashville Studio, accompanied as well by Sting's former back up singer known as Nash. 

As fall neared, the boys came home to rest until the new year, when they would go back to Nashville and finish the album and gear up for a summer tour. Back home, Leonidas had some college dates scheduled and set out on the road for a short while. Things soon went down hill very fast from here. Lead singer, Danny Padro, had become vastly distant from the others in the band in many ways, which soon lead to his departure. Leonidas worked with some regional agencies to try out new singers for the position, but no one was cutting it, and Nashville wasn't happy. The band piece by piece fell apart and the guys didn't speak for a short while. 

But now, almost a half a year later, the original, core members of Leonidas have gotten back together and are writing new music which is expected to be out very soon, followed by a supporting tour. They are under the new band name of Dragons In Athens. The band loves their music and their fans more than anything in the world. And this year will be the beginning to something no one has seen before.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Leonidas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.