Leptotrichia are a Belgian death metal band.


As many anxiously awaited the year 2000 for apocalyptic events to begin, the birth of LEPTOTRICHIA was already at hand. A first line-up of psychopaths has been formed somewhere in the middle of the year 2000, ready to translate the horrifying nightmares of the masses into some gruesome brutalizing death metal.

With these four madmen, aka Youri (drums), Zitter (Guitars), Muyncke (vocals), and Jona (Bass), a very first demo has been recorded and a first live-outburst took place. This way, we got to contaminate Lander with the Lepto-virus, what resulted soon after in the recordings of our infamous demo-MCD entitled “Enjoy the Slaughter”. This was a self-financed MCD, but already drew the attention of many. Identified by Dental Records released “Enjoy the Slaughter” as a split CD with Amputated (UK), and Deadpawn Production from Australia released the MCD as well. 

In the meantime, Jona left the band and was replaced by Ruben. A new song “Spit & Swallow” appeared on the deathmetal.be sampler, what already confronted our opposers with the progress that had been made. Ruben soon left the band, and we went on for a while without bass player, just until Koen (ex-Aborted) appeared on the surface. With this line-up, many shows have been done (with bands like Aborted, Leng ‘t Ché, Disavowed, Pyaemia, Avulsed, Severe Torture, Obscenity,… etc.) and new filth has been written. 

After this first terror spree, Youri decided to leave the band. The rest of Lepto immediately started the quest for a new lunatic, but without any result. An uncertain period began, and ended ultimately with Youri coming back. This meant, we finally could record our first full album “ The Repository”. After these recordings, Youri decided to quit the ranks for good, and again began the search for a new drummer, and again without any result. This paralyzed the band for a couple of years, until suddenly Nico (Serial Butcher) stood up and offered his blood to revive the sleeping beast, meanwhile more furious than ever!

The upcoming release of “The Repository” announces the return of the beast and is in fact just a prelude of the massacre yet to come. Leptotrichia has been awoken and is ready to spread its disease among the masses. It’s time to separate the wheat from the chaff. With its unmerciful brutality, Leptotrichia has come to eliminate the weak and to leave the survivors in awe. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Leptotrichia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.