“The road to success and recognition is bumpy, long and not for everybody. You can only do this if you really love music and can’t imagine yourself doing anything else”

Those words by Leroy Styles himself are maybe the best way to introduce this successful Dutch producer/DJ and a man who understands his craft!

Leroy Styles stands for groove, minimal and funky techno or as he likes to call it “just house”. From the early 90’s, when he fell in love with house music, till this day, when Leroy is considered one of the most successful DJ’s in the Dutch club scene, he’s been ‘putting his money where his mouth is’, depending not only on his talent but on hard work as well.

So, how does one starts out by using cassette tapes to practice his mixing skills and then ends up being a much respected producer and an amazing DJ, putting out records and getting (international) support and recognition? What happened in between his first public performance at a R&B club in 2002 and his track Manejable being the official Latin Village Anthem in 2009, released on his own label Afrazoo?

Soon after that first gig at a R&B club and realization that the urban crowd doesn’t feel his house music, Leroy got his first big break by getting a gig at Off-Corso, one of Rotterdam’s oldest & finest clubs. Rotterdam being his home town, Leroy grabbed this opportunity with both hands, playing as if his life depended on it. The stars must’ve aligned that night for Leroy and from that night on his carrier took off for real. Residency at successful club night Superstarz became a fact, followed by regular gigs at other famous Rotterdam club (The Thalia) known for its tough and always critical crowd.  His unmistakable skills and unique energy soon got noticed by one of the biggest clubs of The Netherlands (Now&Wow) where he became a resident DJ after only a few successful gigs! 

Determined to bring “quality to the people”, Leroy Styles started a series of creative concepts of his own (Hufters, Electro Rockers) and in September 2006 his other concept, LOOKS at TheThalia was born. Every last Saturday of the month he invites the best national and international DJ’s like Benny Rodrigues, Brian S, René Amesz, Kenny Dope (USA), Dennis Ferrer (USA), Kerri Chandler (USA), Manoo (FR), D-Ramirez (UK), Jazzy Jeff (USA) and many more.
Nowadays Leroy’s name is on the bill of Holland’s biggest festivals and best clubs such as Panama (Amsterdam), The Thalia (Rotterdam), De Rechter (Eindhoven), Escape (Amsterdam), Jimmy Woo (Amsterdam), Now & Wow (Rotterdam), The Level (Arnhem), Off-Corso (Rotterdam) and many more. He also frequently plays abroad, and is particularly keen on South America and France, but who knows where his next record will take him?

Spending all of his (non existing) spare time in the studio, Leroy Styles is producing like a mad man. His 2007 ‘Booty Bass (dream)’ became a Dutch club classic almost instantly,  causing serious damage on the dance floor. Followed by ‘Jus Bounce’ that  caught D-Ramirez’ attention and was featured on his Ministry of Sound compilation cd in 2007,  gaining huge support by worlds finest DJ’s such as Jack de Marseille, Roger Sanchez, Sander Kleinenberg, Rene Amesz, Benny Rodrigues and Steve Angello. ‘Jus Bounce’ also appeared on a Renaissance album, mixed by Paolo Mojo. This fantastic 80-minute Renaissance mix includes tracks from Paolo Mojo himself, Joris Voorn, Cirez D, Blue Foundation, Daso, Sebo K, Loco Dice and many more. Another Leroy track, God Will Set Me Free (feat. MC Crown), is featured on a Defected In The House Amsterdam 09 compilation.

With a list of (upcoming) releases on his own label Afrazoo, Gregor Salto’s label G-Rex, Sidney Samson’s Samsobeats and Kerri Chandler’s (US) Grei Matter Records, with Manoo, Sunnery James & Ryan Marciano, Geneiro Nvilla, Glowinthedark en Jaquelino Ferreira lining up to do a remix of his tracks, this talented producer/DJ is definitely here to stay. 

Consider yourselves warned!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Leroy+Styles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.