Cinematic instrumentalists Les Angles Morts (English translation: The Dead Angles) play noisy, fearful, ridiculous film scores. They emerged from the underground in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, playing their earliest shows in a former textiles mill on the banks of the Lachine Canal. Since inception, they have played countlessly in Montreal and toured with soul mates Japanther (NYC), Need New Body (Philly), Explosions in the Sky (Austin, TX), Mono (Japan), Do Make Say Think, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and Athletic Automaton (Providence,RI). Les Angles Morts fall firmly into spazzy art-rock territory. Their sound has grown from early Boards of Canada lyricism-meets-hardcore energy into a pounding signature style dubbed "psychedelic hardcore" by breathless and bleeding fans. Their Montreal loft shows have taken on a feverish tone as bodies swirl together to a pummeling rhythm section, sharp guitars and poppy blasts from analog synths. Les Angles Morts emerged after the meltdown of the Arcade Fire in 2002, when Myles Broscoe and ex-patriate video artist Brendan Reed left to create experimental and innovative music that could not exist within that band (Brendan and Myles played on the band's debut ep which has recently been re-issued on Merge Records). Soon Owain Lawson and Kyle Fostner joined, crucially fleshing out the loud sound. Les Angles Morts have existed under the radar since, as a musical collective that scores films. The members of Les Angles Morts are multi-instrumentalists and video-makers. They are as obsessed with lights as they are with sound as their videos are an integral part of their live show, rather than incidental to it. All of their songs act as scores to the homemade films of neon puppet wars, travelogues and kaleidoscopic flashes of light that the band projects over the stage. Despite the importance of the videos, each Les Angles Morts' show finds the band moving further from the orchestra pit and deeper into the mosh pit. Les Angles Morts' long-awaited debut record, Whats Real?, was released in September 2005 on Montreal label Blue Skies Turn Black. Recorded by Howard Billerman at Hotel2Tango (Godspeed! You Black Emperor, Arcade Fire, Silver Mount Zion), mixed by Sixtoo (Ninja Tune Records) and mastered by Mark Lawson (The Unicorns). Artwork by Seripop (Chloe Lum and Yannick Desranleau of AIDS Wolf). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Les+Angles+Morts">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.