"Lesch-Nyhan formed in 1989, brothers Mark and Anthony Delacandro asked me to come over and jam, they played some hardcore type music. My best friend Greg Oreski got wind of this and he started playing the bass. WE quickly started playing a style ov music that was different, odd... Mike Carr joined the band and he really solidified the sound we were playing. We quickly started playing shows along side then unsingned bands such as Suffocation, Incantation, Crucifier and Ripping Corpse was singed at the time... Soon we released a demo and were invited to New York to showcase infront of a multitude of record labels. Peaceville and I had discussions and with that the band slowly fell apart. Not ready to move on, the music was just for fun they said and never expected what was going on in the scene at the time. So I tried to move forward with Dan kamp on bass Rob Vandeerver on the guitar. Dan lasted a short period and moved on to Incantation to play bass. Matt Dwyer bassist and Randy Burbage on the drums joined the band in late 1991, only to find out this wasn't their style of music... So I decided without Greg in the world and fludding myself with drugs I said fuck it...

20 years later, in October of 2012, Rob Vanderveer contacted me about getting this unique band back out and to do what we didn't do before... Put are stamp on this shit... So Chris Miller (ex Crucifier, Afterbirth). Bass; and Mark Madman, Vizza drums; and Jimmy Di Batista reformed Lesch-Nyhan and got ourselves back out and apart of the scene we helped to create... Rob and Jimmy had personal issues and Jack Carmichael (ex Afterbirth) and his sheer wizardry stepped up and is now helping to create in Lesch-Nyhan in 2013 as of mid Oct. 2013 a new drummer has been added to Lesch-Nhyan..... Mark "III" Stainthorpe ........Lesch-Nyhan is back ....666"

Facebook <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lesch-Nyhan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.