LESSTHANOT begins in 2004 as a project between Marco Velazco (lead guitar and vocals) and Omar Hernandez (drums), with the willing to form an extreme metal band inspired by death metal, both, the melodic and the pure. Since their origins they dedicated to rehearse opposed genre band covers, like Metallica, and forward time, to start writing some own songs. In that moment, they were done with their first song; wich was named "A Letter to My God".

Later on, Alejandro Coronel (bass) and Angel Duarte (rhythm guitar) joined the band, completing their first alignment and giving birth to the band name: A three word mix that remembered them their beginnings and the people who believed in them since the early days: "Less Than Nothing", wich was later narrowed down to Lessthanot. Later that year Lessthanot had its first live show, with only two months of existence, at the Pablo Castellano Music School in Vargas, Venezuela. 

At the beginning of 2005, they started to work on new songs: "Lessthanot", "Insurrección" and "Angels' Tears" came out. In March of the same year, the band recorded the single for this last stated song, wich allowed the band to perform live again, this time, at the Complejo Cultural Jose Maria Vargas, where they had great acceptation. Later on, the band wanted to define more their musical style and sound, so they choosed to add keyboard, Jessica Sakumoto took the seat.

At the end of year and due to a few live shows, as well as the great receptiveness of the public, Lessthanot is invited to a private show, and shared stage with three big national bands Extremo Sur, Tinieblas and Natastor.

During 2006, Marco Velazco takes an important decision about the alignment of the band. To write more complex guitar riffs, he decides to leave the vocals and take care of the lead guitar duties and chorus vocals only, due to that, Christian Moreno enters in the band as lead vocalist. After this change the song “Doomsday" came out, wich received very good critics.

Months later, guitar player Angel Duarte quits the band, and then Jorge Galindo joins in, who also played in the band named Pray. At the same time, Jessica Sakumoto quits the band because many musical differences and the band decided to try luck without this instrument. Later, they managed to record their first demo Doomsday, wich helped the band grew up into the national scene and getting many shows in different locations around the country, sharing stage with bands like Natastor, Torre de Marfíl, Grand Bite, and many others. Ending this year they were interviewed two times by Kultura Rock Radio show, directed by venezuelan singer, Paul Gillman.

In 2007, Lessthanot announced that Jorge Galindo leaves the band, and so on, young guitar player Valdemar Mendez joins in.

Actually the band is promoting their independent debut Extended Play, entitled ...We Will Judge Angels recorded in Maracaibo city, Venezuela, at Probos Estudio Creativo, the mixing and mastering was done by Miguel Angel De Donato and the production by the band itself; this record was released in April 19th of this current year.

In June 9th 2009, by a recognized event producer in Venezuela, Lessthanot had the opportunity to open the show in Caracas, for the greek black death metal band, Rotting Christ, who were touring South America; being this their international debut, representing the country all together with other two well known Venezuelan bands, as are Subconsciente and Overhate. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lessthanot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.