About  LETCHING GREY:
Originating from St. Clair Shores, MI, this band started out as high school friends back in 1984. Sean Kelly and Derek Lavis had the idea and the name. With everyone just starting on their instruments, the band practiced relentlessly. As a high school band there wasn't much they didn't achieve, winning their High School battle of the bands, playing bars, church festivals and many parties. The band had made a name for themselves. Through the years, the band saw many member changes. A stable guitarist was found with Sam McGee. Soon after finding Sam, the band earned enough money from playing gigs to go into the studio. At this time, the band looked to original bassist, Mark Gastmeier, to take on the bass duties for the record. More rigorous practicing took place to get ready for the recording. After all these years, Letching Grey finally put out their first record, "Seraphim", which put them on the map in the metal world.

Sometime in 1996, one year after "SERAPHIM" was created, guitarist, Sam McGee decided to sever himself from "THE LETCH"!  He ventured off on his own on a dead-end career choice when he moved out to California and formed his own "solo" project.  He mentioned, at the time, he wanted to be the lead vocalist; lead guitarist; and the leader of his "own" band.  As LETCHING GREY was at their peak in hopes of  breaking through and actually being the closest in their long journey to being signed to a record label; this dismantlement of the band really hit home when Sam conveyed this hurtful news to the band!

After 12 long years, Drummer (percussionist)/and LETCHING GREY'S manager, Derek Lavis contacted all the original members (including Sam McGee) of the band to put together a "LETCHING GREY Reunion"!  It was in December of 2008 and took place at The Emerald Theatre in the Metro Detroit area.  Many of our true fans showed up to witness our performance and most compliments included the fact that our fans couldn't believe we had a 12yr. gap since the last time we played a gig.  The reunion show was a great success!

In conclusion; we played one more show since then.  It was again at The Emerald Theatre and it was a very exciting venue!  We proudly warmed up for Paul Di'Anno, the original vocalist of IRON MAIDEN!  This show just took place in February, 2010.  We are definitely not in an "inactive" state as a band.  As a matter of fact, I still keep in touch with the band members and we have had some discussion of continuing on to accept future offers as far as playing live shows, etc.

LETCHING GREY THANKS ALL OF OUR FANS THAT HAVE SUPPORTED US OVER THE YEARS OF OUR DRAMATIC BAND HISTORY!!!  HOPEFULLY WE WILL, SOME DAY, PROVE OURSELVES AND LEAVE ALL OF YOU WITHOUT DISAPPOINTMENT!

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/letchinggrey#ixzz111AUnVcX

You can contact LETCHING GREY via e-mail at the following:  dereklavis@yahoo.com

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Letching+Grey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.