Lethian Dreams came to existence in the Summer of 2002, from the hands of Carline Van Roos (Remembrance, Aythis) and Matthieu Sachs (Remembrance).

In 2003 the band releases its first demo "Mournful Whispers", consisting of a very atmospheric and sullen ensemble of songs. From this point, Lethian Dreams began to explore heavier musical contractions, and soon new material is recorded and released in a self-produced demo called "Lost In Grief", where during 36 minutes, the band brings forth even more desolate and melancholic musical landscapes. The release collects a myriad of motivating feedbacks and the title song "Lost In Grief" ends up featuring the MetalStorm.ee compilation.

During 2005, the founding members part ways with the line-up and initiates the composing process for Lethian Dreams first album. Later that year, a first promotional version of "Requiem for my soul, Eternal
rest for my heart " is released. In 2007, the band decides to re-record it, as well as bringing on some new songs.
This refreshed set was renamed "Bleak Silver Streams" and was released in 2009 through Orcynia Records. Two years after this much acclaimed first album, the band composes new songs in a different approach, marking a more ethereal and acoustic sound. Set to be released via Twilight Records and titled "Just Passing by... & Unreleased Requiems", the upcoming album of the band is a collection of unreleased tracks from Lethian Dreams.

This collection features 4 new and totally unheard songs that the band wrote between 2005 and 2010. This new CD comes also with a re-edition of the 2006 "Requiem for My Soul, Eternal Rest for My Heart" promo CD that has been remastered for this occasion. "Requiem for My Soul, Eternal Rest for My Heart" is the first recorded version of the much acclaimed first album "Bleak Silver Streams" and offers different versions of the songs.

In 2012 Lethian Dreams releases its second full-length album "Season of Raven Words" and walks away slowly from the Atmospheric Doom of the beginning to explore a more ethereal sound and rawer guitar riffing. Inspired by nature, passing seasons, feelings, solitude, this album steps even further into the nature orientation to let the listener wander into the natural word, both perfect and cruel. With Season of Raven Words, the band reaches the summit of their musical work and achieve the perfect mix between atmospheric and dark music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lethian+Dreams">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.