Coming from the gray city of Sao Paulo, Brazil and established originally in 1992 under the name LETHAL CURSE with a "power-trio" line-up the first studio recording was the 1993 demo “Return To Obscurity” and could be named as one of the "pioneers" at the doom metal field of their .home land, a fact that lead them to play with the English doomsters from Anathema in 1994.

The band is part of the first edition of The Winds of the New Millennium I in 1995 initiative that shows some of the best new acts from the Brazilian scene. Their debut full length album was reached in 1998, entitled Rape The Innocence by the traditional Brazilian label Cogumelo Records (Sepultura, Sarcofago, Vulcano).

On the same year yet, a national tour was done supporting the well known Greek band Rotting Christ followed by lots of underground apparitions until the end of 1999, that was also the year were one of the band's songs is featured in the Belgian compilation box Sometimes Death is Better. The positive answer due to these releases was extended to the international press, where the band gets warm reviews in serious publications as: Rock Hard, Ablaze, Rock Brigade, Ancient Ceremonies among others of similar importance. Tribute to Sarcófago was the next CD apparition in 2000 where the band appears doing a medley of 02 songs among bands of worldwide prestige such as Satyricon, Impaled Nazarene, Angelcorpse and other good names. The 2001 pre-production recordings results in the promo cd Second Coming a release of strictly promotional goal, and at this height the band enjoy national acclaim and starts awakening really good interest in the worldwide underground metal scene.

2002 comes and together a new line-up change that allied with changes of several spheres becomes the pivots for a global and long restructuring process definitely marked for the adoption of a brand new name: Of The Archaengel --chosen by being the best appropriate to reflect the rich and occultist lyrical themes developed for the group – and to form sediment for this new, owned musical parameter. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lethal+Curse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.