Lex Talion is an Argentinian Viking Metal/Folk Metal band founded in 2010 by Ramiro J. Pellizzari. It is one of the few bands that play such style within the city of La Plata (Buenos Aires). Their musical grammar is directed to songs with social, mythological, spiritual and pagan themes.

Music:

The fusion of several styles belonging to different strands of Metal such as (among others) Doom Metal, Heavy Metal and Death Metal, are some of the sonorous claims of the band. On the other hand, the use of keyboards and acoustic instruments play a very important role to imbue a rustic and Folk sound to their work. This spectrum of sounds is applied to create music with extreme and -at the same time- static shades with defined melodic lines.

Biography:

Lex Talion was created in 2010 by Ramiro J. Pellizzari in the city of La Plata, initially as a solo studio project, unpretentious -at first- to become a band.

It officially begins to function as a consolidated band in 2011 with the entry of Federico Vogliolo in charge of the clean vocals and Elías Gonzalez Bader on the bass guitar. During the first year in which the project was considered an integral band they proceeded to record a promotional EP entitled "Blood & Mead" which was released in June, 2012 independently. After the unexpected positive results of the EP (released for free download on the Internet) they decided to complete their first LP called "Funeral in the Forest" which was released on the 12th of December, 2012, receiving very positive reviews from the specialized media and subsequently arriving as a physical CD release in their city of origin and as free digital download worldwide.

The band is currently organizing live shows as well as composing new material for their second LP album.

Members:

Ramiro J. Pellizzari - Guttural Vocals, Guitar and others instruments.
Federico Vogliolo - Clean Vocals
Elías Gonzalez Bader - Bass Guitar

Discography:

Year Format  Title
2012 EP          Blood & Mead 
2012 CD          Funeral in the Forest  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lex+Talion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.