Liam Finn (born Liam Mullane Finn on 24 September 1983) is a New Zealand musician and songwriter. 

Born in Melbourne, Australia, but moved to New Zealand as a child, Finn's passion for music begins as early as childhood as the son to Neil Finn (of Split Enz and Crowded House fame), and nephew to kiwi rock legend Tim Finn. 

Finn attended Auckland high school Selwyn College. It was during high school that LFinn pursued the musical talent in his blood and helped in the formation of the band Betchadupa (with other band members Joe Bramley, Matt Eccles and Chris Garland). The band saw the release of two albums which charted well in New Zealand. A few years later, however, Betchadupa made a unanimous decision to take a break.

Finn released his first solo album in 2007: "I'll Be Lightning", with the help of former Betchadupa band-mates. 

Since the reunion of the band Crowded House in early 2007, Finn has become part of its touring band, playing concerts such as Coachella Festival and Live Earth in Sydney. In 2008, he opened for Eddie Vedder's solo tour throughout America. Later that year, Finn headlined his first North American tour and went on the road with The Black Keys in the UK and Europe. 

In August 2009, Finn performed with a new band called BARB on a small New Zealand tour with a band consisting of Connan Hosford (Connan and the Mockasins), James Milne (Lawrence Arabia), Eliza Jane Barnes, Seamus Ebbs, Jol Mulholland and Wild Bill Rickets. Their album (recorded at Roundhead Studios in Auckland) was released 24 August 2010.

In January 2014, Finn toured New Zealand for the first time since 2011, this time with a new backing band The Salty Women, which consisted of mostly past collaborators including James Milne (Lawrence Arabia), Eliza Jane Barnes, and brother Elroy Finn. 

On 24 August 2018, Finn released the album "Lightsleeper" with his father, Neil Finn. 

Quick Fact Trivia:
He is an accomplished photographer.
He played the lead role in "Return to The Forbidden Planet" during highschool. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Liam+Finn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.