Singer/songwriter Liam Titcomb grew up backstage at Festivals. Even before the release of his first album (age 17) on Sony Music he was touring across Canada with established acts like Blackie and the Rodeo Kings, Great Big Sea, Tom Cochrane, Colin James and David Usher. 

In 2006, Liam was nominated at the Canadian Radio Music Awards for Best New Group or Solo Artist (Hot AC) with his Debut album on Columbia produced by Grammy winning producer Bill Bottrell (Sheryl Crow, Shelby Lynne) featuring singles: “Sad Eyes” which went Top 10 and Counting Headlights Top 20. 

His sophomore album “Can’t Let Go” was recorded in Nashville with grammy winning producer Jay Joyce (Patti Griffin, Emmy Lou Harris); it's obvious that this singer/songwriter set out to prove that he was no “flash in the pan” with his second record. “Can’t Let Go” was released on Double Dorje Records, Liam’s own independent label. 

Thrilled to be signed to his new label NETTWERK Music, Liam went back to Nashville to record with Jay Joyce for his third release CICADA. "Jay and I played everything on the album. I'm very proud of it" quips Titcomb. In support of the first single Love Don't Let Me Down Liam just completed two Coast to Coast cross Canada tours (one on his own and one opening for Colin James in beautiful venues like the NAC in Ottawa and the Jubilee in Edmonton. He also opened for Jann Arden at Massey Hall. Nettwerk is currently preparing for the release the second single. 

A staunch supporter of humanitarian programs, Liam contributed the song "War" to the benefit album Peace Songs (along with Leonard Cohen, Paul McCartney and Bruce Cockburn) in support of War Child Canada. During the summer of 2009, living in his RV, he busked coast to coast followed by the CBC. He proudly raised well over $50,000 for War Child Canada. 

He's had the pleasure of playing several festivals in the past: Burlington Sound of Music, Blue Skies, Ottawa Folk Fest, Ottawa Blues Fest, The Tulip Fest, Stan Rogers Folk Fest, Festival of Friends, Summerfolk, Eaglewood Folk Fest, Mariposa Folk Fest, Beachfest, Regina Folk Fest, Salmon Arm Roots and Blues Fest, Sunshine Music Fest and Home County Folk Fest. Etc. 

Gordon Lightfoot - Louisville.com Interview 
“We have a community here in Toronto of singer-songwriters trying to break out of the mold and go somewhere... Occasionally I'll spot one who's really good... and the one who comes to mind right now is Liam Titcomb. You'll have to check that one out.” 

From Leigh Nash (Sixpence None The Richer) 
"I've known Liam for four years now and can honestly say I am a true fan. The first time I heard his cover of ‘Bandit’ by Neil Young, I was hooked. You wouldn't expect to hear such maturity and depth in the songs of someone so young, yet there it is. 
To be sure, his voice is almost as big as his heart."  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Liam+Titcomb">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.