There is more than one artist with this name, in order of popularity:

1) Liar is an edge metal band from the H8000 scene in Belgium. Early '90s they introduced influences of thrash, black and death metal in hardcore, when there were only emo and youth crew bands on European soil. Debut CD Falls of Torment was released through Goodlife Recordings in '95 and shook the scene with it's heavy Slayer-influenced metal/hardcore.

In '97 Invictus was released, one of the best edge metal albums ever from Europe and far beyond. In '99 Deathrow Earth was released which is considered their darkest album. After this album guitarist and co-founder Josh Fury left the band to focus on CONGRESS. 2 guitarists replaced him. In 2001 Liar's Hell was released on Alveran Records, and in 2005 Murder Manifesto on GSR Music, which was very brutal, dark and blackened.

In 2006 Liar called it quits. They also released some split CDs, toured Europe lots of times, toured Japan, and still live the vegan/straight edge lifestyle.

In 2008 however they announced a comeback.


2) LIAR Raw, uncut and unfettered is the music of Bucharest-based producer Liar. The unsparing boldness embedded within each track smacks you in the face like a playground bully. And no matter the direction of genre that he chooses to travel, the level of quality always remains undeniable. Perhaps this is why his songs have garnished support by the likes of Mary Ann Hobbs down to Jamie xx. Whether manipulating vocals in a haunting manner over rumbling bass or remaking tracks like Katy B’s “5 A.M.” into dark dance floor scorchers, Liar’s production seems to steamroll over even the thought of cookie cutter electronica in today’s market.  -- https://soundcloud.com/liarinth --


3) Liar were a speed metal from Germany (Dortmund, North Rhine-Westphalia) formed in 1988.  They only released two discs: "Nothing But The Truth" (1989) and "Cheatin' Games" (1991)

Members: 
Vocals: The Duke
Guitars: Manu Münzel
Bass: Dipzy
Keyboards: Bone
Drums: Teffe


4) An early project of virtuoso guitarist Eric McFadden, Liar released two albums: Devil Dog Road in 1996 and Gone Too Far in 1998. Originally from Albuquerque and later relocating to San Francisco, they played an energetic variety of Americana with influences of carnival music and hard rock.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Liar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.