In 2005 Renée, Naemi and Teresa started playing together as Liechtenstein. Influenced by British 80s bands like Talulah Gosh, Dolly Mixture, Mo-Dettes, Girls At Our Best!, and Shop Assistants, they released their debut 7” single “Stalking Skills” on Fraction Discs in 2007. The title track made quite a buzz in the indiepop world and a frequent gigging around in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Germany and United Kingdom followed. Around that time Elin joined the band on drums. In the summer of 2008 second guitarist and vocalist Teresa left the band and the others continued as a three piece.

In the autumn 2008 Fraction Discs released their second 7” single Apathy, and a video was made for the flipside Security By Design. “Apathy” showed a new diversity with its gorgeous vocal harmonies over soft pop melodies. It sounds all cosy, yet this is an angry protest songs. It’s songs like these that have gained Liechtenstein a true fan base, bringing back that heavenly pop sound from back then …and at the same time commenting upon the very time we’re living in.

A third single was released in February 2009, this time as a three track CDR on Drill Building. Starting rapidly, paying a musical tribute to Talulah Gosh, over a shoegazey dystopia to a 48 second post-punk song, you start to get the idea of a Liechtenstein album: filled with Pop melodies, elegantly arranged vocal harmonies – and a bundle of short story observations.

In May 2009 their album Survival Strategies In A Modern World was released on Fraction Discs and Slumberland (US) on CD and 10". "Survival Strategies is a very backward-looking album -- to be sure you could have thrown it on your turntable in 1986 and it would have fit in perfectly with the surrounding sounds -- but it also sounds very good in the late 2000s, and that's what really counts" (allmusic guide).

Bass player Naemi left the band in the summer of 2009, and Ulrika took her place shortly after. The band went on a European tour in January 2010, visiting France, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Liechtenstein">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.