In 2003 a couple of friends decided to start a band. There was only one catch. Most of them just started to play their instrument. 
in the beginning they just started to practise some easy songs, and a cover band was starting to take shape.
They rehearsed in a cellar somewhere so they could make as much noise as they wanted.
Rehearsing under the name "Ice Killers" they would learn to play their instruments and were able to get used to being a band.
The band shortly had to say goodbye to their vocalist, for some reason he didn't manage to come around every sunday. Because of him leaving, Dennis was kind of chosen to replace him. 

Not long after this event, the band changed their name to "Wasted". This would only be for a short time, this name was already taken by lots of other bands. 
So they came together and came up with an original name, "Life O'Riley". 

Life O' Riley stands for Life without worries. It's an old Irish saying, if you didn't already know. 
After taking some bandphotos and a few more rehearsels, the band came to a halt. 
Some members went on vacation for a couple of weeks and to top it off, they lost their rehearsing cellar...

Six months went along and Life O' Riley picked up the pace after checking in to another location where they could rehearse.
Shortly after starting it all up again they started to write their first song, "Intro To The Life". Their style was Thrash Metal. Influences from bands like Metallica and Pantera would be a lead to their sound, but it's actually not so very true. Some parts of their songs are definitly recognisable but the overall style is very different, yet still Thrash Metal. 
A few months after writing some songs, Juliën Nelissen joined the band to become the new Vocalist. This brought some speed up into writing new songs and they started recording the demo.

During the recordings, they started to do some gigs. 8 gigs in 3 months, this was a period of learning and fun. Great shows and positive feedback motivated the band more and more.
The demo was finished in August 2006. .

Life O' Riley is a Thrash Metal Band, formed by Juliën Nelissen (vocals), Rick Lagerwaard (Lead Guitar), Dennis Carroll (Rythm Guitar // Backing Vocals), Frans Kampkes (Bass) and Rob Meisters (Drums). 
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Life+O%27+Riley">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.