Bio
Life‘s Edge was formed in the summer of 2009 in Vilnius, Lithuania by six young musicians commited to playing dark, but passionate music, containing influences from many different music styles and gloomy aspects of life. The band was born from a project of Viktor Filimonenko (vocals) called ‘Unspotted Tears‘. During their first years LE struggled to find a sound that would suit every member of the band. Also from time to time there were changes in the line-up, that led to months lost trying to find suitable replacements. Bassists changed once, while guitar players changed twice. Also a viola, which was originally one of the instruments used in LE‘s music was eventually left out.
Some demo recordings were made in 2011 in MuzLab studios for  a band battle. An old version of ‚‘Left in Despair‘ and a really doomish single ‘Enjoy the Taste of Death‘. The young doomers participated in 3 band batlles in which they made 4th place twice and 1st place once. 
In march 2012 Life‘s Edge released a debut EP called ‘Left in Despair’. Recorded at the Lithuanian Academy of Music and Theatre and released under a small Latvian label ‘P3lican’. The five-song album had good reviews and some gigs in Lithuania and Latvia followed. Although, when things seemed better than ever, the band had to part ways with their second guitar player Mindaugas. But there wouldn’t be darkness without light. A few sad moths later LE was joined by Rostislav Apuchovskij and new things started to happen. A new, heavier, slower and melancholical approach to music led to some really good stuff. New songs were longer, more complex, but the atmosphere of Despair could still be felt in them.
The beginning of 2013 was a busy time. Life’s Edge returned to the studio to make a new recording. And again in march a new EP was baked. Recorded at the same place, but mixed and mastered by LE’s drummer Augustinas Bėkšta, this completely free 3-song mini EP called ‘Ocean‘ is something of a milestone. It marks a finally stable line-up and sums up what Life‘s Edge had done over the year after releasing their debut EP and changing guitar players. 
Slow, heavy, melodic, dark and disturbing, but also evolving into something brighter and more mysteryous...

Line-up:
Viktor Filimonenko – vocals;
Modestas Juškėnas – guitar;
Rostislav Apuchovskij – guitar;
Marius Petniūnas – bass;
Karolina Vikšraitytė – keyboards;
Augustinas Bėkšta – drums.
Former members:
Greta Vitkauskaitė – viola;
Ainis Karpavičius – bass;
Mindaugas Bitė – guitar.


Links
Official Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/lifesedgeofficial
Official YouTube page: http://www.youtube.com/user/Lifesedgeofficial
ReverbNation page: http://www.reverbnation.com/lifesedge
Last.fm page: http://www.last.fm/music/Life%27s+Edge

Contact
lifesedgelt@gmail.com
+37064307233 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Life%27s+Edge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.