THE PAST
Born in 999 from the ashes of Haternal and Mourning Star, Lifend start his activity under the moniker My Dark Side. The early times were spent playing some tracks by Edge Of Sanity and Moonspell. After a few months the band decided to reach for a more incisive and direct moniker. The best choice for the new sound was Lifend, a term able to incarnate an aggressive and complicated sound, balanced by the massive usage of acoustic riffs and female vocals. After the release of the first two MCDs, “Entwined Emotions” – 2001 and “Shattering: Reality” – 2002, and a live album, “Live-End”, Lifend got a deal with the label Cruz del Sur Music and released an handful of their best stuff under the name “InnerScars”, the first full-lenght, during October 2004. A lot of good reviews and interviews followed the release of the debut album, and the band started to play many gigs all over Italy and Europe with acts like Samael, Novembre Ephel duath, Flowing Tears, Green Carnation. In 2005, when the female vocalist decided to left the band Lifend, evolved to a more personal proposal. With a new line-up the band started to work hard on the new material: the long suites made up of Swedish death, brutal death, black metal, doom and gothic become shorter, more direct and aggressive, simply in your face. The most modern death metal and the heavy post-core married in a new sound that Lifend like calling post-death.
In 2006 the four-pieces starts his collaboration with Alkemist Fanatix Europe through the person of Carlo Bellotti (Necromass, GF93). After a season in which Lifend brings all over Italy the new sound with an handful of gigs, the band enters the Westlink Recording Studio (Pisa, Tuscany) to give life to the follower of “Innerscars”: during September 2007, with the support of Ale Paolucci’s (Raw Power) great experience, “DeviHate” takes form. Just after the recoding session Andrea Serrao friendly decides to leave the band and is replaced by Marco Savoini (ex-Five Minutes Hate). 

THE PRESENT
DeviHate has hit the stores on May 30: eight tracks of powerful, intense and emotively violent extreme music, worldwide published by Worm Hole Death/Aural Music, the newborn Italian sub-label of the mighty Aural Music (Code 666, My Kingdom music, Dreamcell 11…) and mastered at Hofa Studios (DE). 

THE FUTURE
TOUR TOUR TOUR! From September on Lifend will come back touring all over Europe to promote the album release thanks to the great partnership with two great agencies like TripleSixSoul booking (a division of Solar Penguin - DE) and Last sound Design (IT).

Keep in touch with the band or the agencies for booking gigs or interviews! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lifend">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.