There are mutliple artists with this name:

1) Lifeless is a depressive black metal band from León, Mexico. Formed during autumn 2013.

2) Lifeless was a 90s straight edge metalcore band from Salt Lake City, Utah formed in the fall of 1995. They realeased one self-titled 7" on Life Sentence Records in 1996. http://www.myspace.com/lifelesssaltlake

3) Hard-hitting real New Jersey groove metal/metalcore formed in 2008 for fans of MERAUDER/100 DEMONS. Call 302-723-6190 for booking and be on the lookout in fall 2010 for a full length coming out on HARVCORE/Filled With Hate records! NLFTW.

4) Lifeless is a 4 piece New Era Hardcore band from Christchurch, New Zealand. Formed out of the death of Behold Thy End and the relocation of Our Fallen, they combine the speed and anger of straight up hardcore with the heaviness of 21st century hardcore bands. The band is currently completing their debut EP.

5) The history of LIFELESS began in fall 2004, when the former NON DIVINE members Marc (v/g) and Andy (g) were driven by passion to found a new band to perform the sound that has always been their favorite one: TRADITIONAL DEATH METAL!!!

Unfortunately they were forced to give up this idea for a while due to private problems. During 2005 those problems decreased, so the idea to found an old school death metal band was rearoused. When Jan (b) joined the band in spring 2006, LIFELESS finally was born. Fortunately it took not much time to find someone for the vacant position on drums. Daniel (also playing in SUFFOCATED ART) joined and completed the band.

In winter 2008 Jan decided to leave the band due to job related reasons. His duty on bass was taken over by Daniel Wien.

LIFELESS is one of Germany..s most traditional death metal acts, proven by their first album "Beyond the threshold of death" that was produced and recorded by the band themselves. The mastering was done by Vesa Kenttäkumpu from swedish death metal legend EVOCATION.

In fall 2009 LIFELESS was signed by US based IBEX MOON RECORDS 

6) Lifeless is a Crossover thrash band from Middlesbrough, England.

Their influences such as Nuclear Assault, Bones brigade, D.R.I. Corrosion of conformity, Leeway, S.O.D. Suicidal Tendencies, Cryptic Slaughter, SSD, Anthrax, DYS, Cro-Mags and Septic Death.

7) Lifeless (Luxembourg) was formed as continuation/one-man solo project of a band called ‘Bloodshed’ which was formed in 1992. They play progressive death metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lifeless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.