Light This City is an American melodic death metal band from the Bay Area, San Francisco that formed in 2002. They released one independent album and three albums with Prosthetic Records before disbanding in 2008. Tyler Gamien and Ben Murray were the co-founders of Reflections of Ruin Records, where they released The Hero Cycle, being the band's, and the label's first release. They are noted for having a female lead vocalist, one of the few death metal bands to have one. In their various albums they worked alongside notable musicians such as Chuck Billy of Testament and Trevor Strnad of The Black Dahlia Murder.

In 2010, Light This City began to become active again, after completing four reunion shows from April 8, 2010 to April 11, 2010. Light This City played another reunion show on November 8, 2015 on the San Francisco date of Darkest Hour's 20th anniversary tour. In September, 2017, following a 10 year hiatus, Light This City announced that they had reformed and were working on completing a new album through Creator-Destructor Records. Subsequently, the album Terminal Bloom, is set for an official release on 25 May 2018. Drummer Ben Murray said he and guitarist Ryan Hansen treated writing Terminal Bloom like a full-time job for about six months to get songs ready. Murray told Joe Smith-Engelhardt at Exclaim!, "It came smoothly too, it wasn't a painstakingly laborious thing where we had to try to get back into Light This City mode."

Light This City's albums have featured collaborations with renowned musicians such as Chuck Billy of Testament ("Firehaven" off Stormchaser), and Trevor Strnad of The Black Dahlia Murder ("Fear of Heights" off Facing the Thousand).

Band Members:

--Final line-up--
Laura Nichol - Vocals (now in Heartsounds)
Brain Forbes - Guitar
Ryan Hansen - Guitar (now in Writhen)
John Frost - Bass (now in Something Must Die)
Ben Murray - Drums (Session member for In Memoriam; now in Heartsounds)

--Previous members--
Nick Koenig - Guitar
Tyler Gamien - Guitar
Steven Shirley - Guitar (now in Comadre)
Steven Hoffman - Guitar (now in Death and Glory)
Mike Dias - bass
Dan Kenny - bass (ex-Animosity, ex-Carnivorous, now in Suicide Silence)

Discography:
The Hero Cycle (2003, Reflections of Ruin Records)
Remains of the Gods (2005, Prosthetic Records)
Facing the Thousand (2006, Prosthetic Records)
Stormchaser (2008, Prosthetic Records)
Terminal Bloom (2018, Creator-Destructor Records) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Light+This+City">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.