It all started seven years ago (2004) in Eura, Finland when three rebellious and good looking teenagers, all school buddies started to grow their hair because that is what the rockers do. Antti’s (guitar), Asko’s (drums) and Tuomas’s (keyboards) previous musical background was only based on self learning and solid interest in music. They had no singing skills (maybe later proven wrong), which was why their music was initially instrumental. However, the boys were lucky to find out that musical talent could also be found elsewhere in the world. After doing some serious thinking, Antti’s cousin Tuuli from Turku joined the band in autumn 2004 as the singer and figurehead. But yet they did not know what was to come. Samuli – another school mate, also good looking, yet unknown to Tuuli – was chosen to join the band’s only free seat without warning. Samuli became the bassist. This is how Like Tomorrow was born.

After the New Year all the band members noticed that they were in the year of 2005 – and that was a good thing. Like Tomorrow’s musical genre began to stabilize in the melodic side of metal blended with nuances of ‘whatever feels good at the moment’. At the beginning of the year the band had already quite enough songs so it was time for their first studio visit. The first EP, Out of The Sight, with four songs was released in March the same year. As a result, the local media felt encouraged to contact the band. Like Tomorrow made their sound heard on the radio and their faces visible in the press. Even strangers called them with questionable intentions. And it was nice to get to play on a number of gigs. What could be better? (Well…)

Dressing the Past was Like Tomorrow’s second self-paid EP which was released in November 2006. It felt good. They had finished their education but the compulsory military service was ahead of them. It bothered the boys – but not the barbers. The EP took the momentum in spite of everything and the masses got to hear their production because they won the YleX (one of the Finnish national radio stations) demo competition. In summer the boys finished their military service and, as a reward, the band headed on a low-cost trip to Bulgaria. During that time Dressing the Past had been successful enough so that they were given the chance to record their ‘hit single’ Author of Your Life in Petrax studio, Hollola. It felt like being an alcoholic in a tax free shop. They spend the rest of the year on making and polishing the songs for upcoming disc and doing some gigs.

In July 2008 Like Tomorrow gathered again in the studio to record tracks for their third self-paid EP. A three-song EP Human Natural Selections was released in November 2008. The EP lifted the band up like an elevator and the band was satisfied. Human Natural Selections pleased both the band and all the other listeners. The disc was taken out of the hands like Justin Bieber in a teenage party. Imperiumi.net rated the record with top points. Desibeli.net imitated the review of Imperiumi. The band thought that ’the tribe had spoken’. But that was not the case: Soundi magazine (one of the biggest music magazines in Finland) chose Like Tomorrow’s third EP as the demo of the month. These reviews brought radio minutes, newspaper interviews, a TV interview and plenty of gigs in western Finland. The number of gigs had increased over the years but after Human Natural Selections the number of gigs soared. A logical continuum of all this was the bands first music video shooting of the opening track, Amber. The music video was released in spring 2009. After that the boys relaxed and headed to Rhodes, Greece.

In the year of 2010 the band lived exciting times once again. The recordings of the fourth EP had been wrapped up and a new music video had been filmed. Containing two new songs, an acoustic live song and a music video, Perfect World was released in December 2010. The second music video was made from the energetic opening song Crossfade. Other highlights of the year were being a warm-up band for Stratovarius and success in Turku Bandstand competition where the band got to smile with bronze medals between their teeth. By the way, big smiles seem to be the band’s sovereign trump card. The band also visited California to check out surfers and girls roller skating in their bikinis. They might also have seen some kind of a big gap of rocks there. Now it is time to head for the annual trip to Lapland and see if the skis slide also outside band activities. With these words the year 2011 will be super and full of blast for Like Tomorrow. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Like+Tomorrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.