There are multiple artists that perform under the name Like:

1. Gabriel Stevenson, professionally known as Like, is an American record producer, rapper, DJ and songwriter. A three time Grammy nominee, he began working with the Pacific Division, a hip hop trio, better known as Pac Div in 2006.

In 2012, he produced Kendrick Lamar's "Sing About Me" on Good Kid, M.A.A.D City. He received two Grammy Award nominations at the 56th Grammy Awards: Album of the Year and Best Rap Album. In 2016, he produced Anderson .Paak's "Room in Here" featuring The Game and Sonyae Elise on the Malibu album. The album received a Grammy nomination for Best Urban Contemporary Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards. Like has production credit with artists such as Mac Miller, Ab-Soul, Joey Badass, Nick Grant, Asher Roth, Ill Camille and Currensy.

Like has released music as a solo artist. He released instrumental albums, Zesty and Lightwork in 2014 and Emeralds in 2016. On September 30, 2016, he released his first solo rap album, Songs Made While High, which features Anderson .Paak, Buddy, and Kali Uchis.

In 2017, Pac Div regrouped and are scheduled to release an album at the end of the year.

------

2. Like, la leyenda, or simply Like is a Mexican telenovela that premiered on Las Estrellas on 10 September 2018 and ended on 20 January 2019. The telenovela is produced by Pedro Damián for Televisa. The series follows the lives of thirteen students and the problems that adolescents experience during their time in high school.
The first single from the telenovela entitled Este Movimiento, officially premiered on July 10, 2018, through the official YouTube account of the telenovela. The single is performed by the protagonists of the series, who together make up the band Like, the song also serves as the opening theme for the soap opera. The band officially performed for the first time at the 2018 Premios Juventud . The second opening theme used for the soap opera is titled  Contigo composed by Santiago Achaga. The third opening song is titled Vamos A Arreglarnos and was composed by Jimmy Saravia. The full album is titled Like La Leyenda and released in February of 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Like">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.