Tavares Taylor (born January 6, 1993), better known by his stage name Lil Reese is an American rapper from Chicago, Illinois. He is signed to the major record label Def Jam and Glory Boys Entertainment.

Early life

Taylor grew up in Chicago, Illinois. Taylor attended high school, but later dropped out after his junior year and took a chance on music.
Music career

Taylor is a part of Glory Boys Entertainment. Reese began to receive attention and popularity through his music videos, including “US” and “Beef”. His popularity exploded when Chief Keef’s hit single “Don’t Like” featuring Lil’ Reese garnered widespread international attention. He caught the eye of producer No I.D., who had crafted legendary albums or tracks for artists like Common, Kanye West and others. Chicago producer brought Taylor to a major record deal Def Jam. On November 2012 he released a remix from his song “US” with Rick Ross and Drake. Taylor also created many songs with upcoming music producers, such as Young Chop. He is also featured on Juelz Santana’s song Bodies.

Legal issues

On September 5, 2012, Chicago Police disclosed to the Sun Times that Taylor and fellow Chicago rapper Chief Keef are being investigated for a possible connection in the shooting death of fellow rapper and Englewood resident, Joseph ‘Lil JoJo’ Coleman. A YouTube video released a days later shows Jojo and Reese engaging in an argument on the street and someone in the video can be heard uttering the words: “Imma kill you.”

On October 24, 2012, a video showing Reese brutally assaulting a woman, was posted to the internet. Chicago Police are not actively investigating the beating because they don’t know who the victim is, or where/when the incident occurred, according to a police source. Reese would later say the video was recorded years ago and that he is a different person now.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lil+Reese">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.