There are six bands named "Liminal":
1. Liminal (USA)
Downtempo / Illbient  Duo from New York consisting of Danny Blume and DJ Olive. Released one full length LP "Nosferatu" in 1995 on Knitting Factory Works that is meant to be used as an alternate soundtrack to the seminal 1922 horror film "Nosferatu" directed by F. W. Murnau.

2. Liminal (Glasgow)
Electronic future rock from Glasgow Rock City. Wild funk and glitter stomp dance trax mixed with esoteric soundscapes. Brendan O'Hare & Neil Grant meet Gary and Stuart  from Tiafro  and the mix is eclectic and electric. Get down and trip in to these thoroughly modern e-gurus. So modern in fact that one of them lives in Australia and sends his parts via the worldwide web. We want the Future and we want it NOW!

releases: aa on God Bless Records, 1999

"A Myth is of course not a fairy story, It is the presentation of facts belonging to one category in the idioms apppropriate to another!" 
From "The Concept of Mind" by Gilbert Ryle 

3. Liminal (Mexico)
Rock band from Mexico, featuring Leonardo Requejo, Marcelo Rangel, Agustín Dávalos.
www.liminalband.com
www.myspace.com/liminalis

releases: Liminal E.P., 2008

4. Liminal (Indianapolis)
Liminal is an experimental electronics artist from Indianapolis who dabbles in drone, industrial, ambient, and noise.  Ze explores themes relating to anti-capitalism, spirituality, and gender with abstract soundscapes.

Liminal releases

5. liminal (Melbourne)
liminal is an indie rock/soul band from Melbourne, Australia. Lead vocalist Corinna Jane has been described as "the female Robert Plant". The band has undergone several lineup changes since its inception in September 2001, but remained true to its indie rock "can-do" ethos and heavily dynamic style.

RELEASE HISTORY
2002 - Galaxy on Girl 2 compilation
2005 - Vic Arts EP demo CD
2005 - Leonine on Melbourne Live compilation
2006 - Shadowed on Payola1 compilation
2006 - Single Female Wanted on Payola2 compilation
2007 - Monday and Morning Light on Two Up: Double A-Sides compilation
2011 - Star Catcher on Austep Music’s AMES: Unsigned And Original compilation, Volume 5.

The band is currently in post-production mode for its debut EP. 

www.reverbnation.com/liminal
www.facebook.com/liminalmusic

6. Liminal (United States)
Liminal (aka Baron Brady) is an American electronic musician and producer based in Los Angeles, California. 

https://soundcloud.com/baron-brady
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCi3zvdM0RCMucNBjdn5BpTA
http://bandalentertainment.com/bandal/liminal/

RELEASE HISTORY:

Fractal (2015)
Subterrain (2016)
Indeed (2016)
Muse of Fire (2016)
Brief Candle (2017)
Eleuthera (2018)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Liminal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.