Linda Louise McCartney, Lady McCartney (née Eastman) was an American photographer, musician, animal rights activist, and entrepreneur. Her father practiced entertainment law in New York and counted among his famous clients Harold Arlen, Tommy Dorsey, Willem de Kooning, Jack Lawrence, and Mark Rothko. At her father's request, Lawrence wrote the song "Linda" when she was four years old. It was recorded by Buddy Clark in 1947 and went to No. 1 on the charts, and was recorded again in 1963 by duo Jan and Dean.

She was also best known as the first wife of English musician Paul McCartney and for her photographs of celebrities and contemporary musicians like Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin and The Rolling Stones. She photographed British musician Eric Clapton for Rolling Stone magazine and became the first woman to have a photograph on the cover (May 11, 1968). After she married McCartney, her photo of the two of them appeared on the cover of Rolling Stone on January 31, 1974, making her the only person to appear on the magazine's cover who was also the photographer. Her photographs were later exhibited in more than 50 galleries internationally, and at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London.

After the 1970 breakup of The Beatles, Paul and Linda recorded the album Ram and formed the band Wings in 1971. They garnered several Grammy Awards, becoming one of the most successful British bands of the 1970s. The McCartneys also shared an Oscar nomination for the song "Live and Let Die" for the James Bond film of the same name. She continued to be part of her husband's touring band following Wings' breakup in 1981 up until The New World Tour in 1993.

McCartney became an animal rights activist and wrote and published several vegetarian cookbooks. She also founded the vegetarian Linda McCartney Foods company with her husband. In 1995, she was diagnosed with breast cancer and died from the disease three years later at the age of 56 in her home of Tucson, Arizona.

Linda's album Wide Prairie, which included "Seaside Woman", a song recorded by Wings in 1972. Written in response to allegations from Paul's publisher that Linda's co-writing credits were inauthentic and that she was not a real songwriter, it was released posthumously in 1998 by the McCartney family. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Linda+McCartney">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.