Lindsay Dee Lohan (born July 2, 1986 in New York City, New York, United States) is an American actress, model, entrepreneur and pop music singer. Lohan started in show business as a child fashion model for magazine advertisement and television commercials. At age ten, she began her acting career in a soap opera; at eleven, she made her motion picture debut by playing both twins in Disney's 1998 remake of The Parent Trap.

Lohan rose to stardom with her leading roles in the financially successful films Freaky Friday, Mean Girls and Herbie: Fully Loaded. Her subsequent adult roles include appearances in Robert Altman's final film, A Prairie Home Companion and Bobby. In 2004, Lohan launched a career in pop music yielding the albums Speak (2004) and A Little More Personal (Raw) (2005).

Her career was interrupted in 2007 as two DUI incidents and three visits to rehabilitation facilities led to several lost movie deals. Resuming her career, she guest starred in the TV series Ugly Betty in 2008 and filmed Robert Rodriguez's Machete in 2009. 

She has attracted significant publicity, particularly surrounding her personal life. As such, she is often photographed by paparazzi photographers and is the subject of tabloid scrutiny. 

Lohan's debut album, Speak, was released in December 2004, peaking at number four on the Billboard 200. By early 2005, it was certified Platinum. The album was praised by Linda McGee of RTÉ, who awarded it 4 out of 5 stars, saying "Speak opens with all the raw emotion and teenage angst that you'd expect from an artist of Lohan's age" and that, "while her vocals are not sensational, their gritty edge keeps Lohan more than afloat throughout this album" as well as remarking upon the similarity with the early music of Avril Lavigne. Though primarily a pop album, Speak was introduced with the single "Rumors". Described by Rolling Stone as "a bass-heavy, angry club anthem", "Rumors" details Lohan's complaints with the paparazzi. "Rumors" eventually earned a Gold certification in the United States.

In December 2005, Lohan's second album, A Little More Personal (Raw), debuted at number 20 on the Billboard 200 chart.The album was certified Gold in early 2006. The music video for the album's first single, "Confessions of a Broken Heart (Daughter to Father)", was directed by Lohan and featured the acting debut of her sister, Ali. The video was a dramatization of the pain Lohan says her family has suffered at the hands of her father. It was Lohan's first song to chart on the Billboard Hot 100, peaking at number 57.

Following a switch to Universal Motown, Lohan began working on a third album, tentatively titled Spirit in the Dark, in late 2007 and released "Bossy" in May 2008. In November 2008, Lohan stated that work on the album had stalled and that she wanted to avoid the stress of working on movies and music at the same time. Producer Ne-Yo commented that 6 tracks were already finished, but the album was on hold until Lohan went back in the studio to wrap it up. A clip of Lohan's rumored second single 'Playground' was briefly played on The Alan Carr Show during Lohan's guest appearance in March 2010.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lindsay+Lohan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.