Being able to lay claim to commercial and critical successes in genres as wide-ranging as Pop, Hip Hop, House, R&B and Soul is a rarity and Linden Jay's refusal to be constrained by genres is something of envy amongst his peers.

The jazz trained North Londoner who studied at the prestigious Berklee College of Music has had releases as producer and songwriter with an array of artists as diverse as Rejjie Snow, Lion Babe, RITUAL, JGrrey, Barney Artist, Born Dirty and Shola Ama. Recent studio collaborations include Bas, Maverick Sabre, Reuben James, Poppy Ajudha, Kwaye, and Jaz Karis.

In 2018, Linden released a 17-track beat-tape entitled 'So I Don't Forget, Vol.1 ', exhibiting his boundary-pushing production skills and sound design with all tracks produced, mixed and mastered and artwork by himself. And with over 100,000 downloads of his sample packs on Splice.com, Linden’s name and signature sounds have become synonymous with producers all around the globe.

FARR, the band that Linden formed little over a year ago, exemplifies his ability to seamlessly weave electronic, soul and indie influences into a cohesive project, with their self-released singles accumulating over 6 million streams, #1’s on Hype Machine and plays across Beats 1, BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra.

Outside of the studio, Linden has toured as MD and drummer with both Will Heard and Sinead Harnett. Linden also works very closely with world champion beatboxer Reeps One, having engineered 100+ shows for him worldwide, and recorded, mixed and mastered all of the audio on Reeps’ 100 million+ viewed YouTube channel. Linden’s engineering credits also include The Prodigy’s 2018 #1 album No Tourists.

In 2019, Linden was recognised by the PRS Foundation as an exciting emerging talent and was awarded a grant from their prestigious Producer-Writer fund. 

And if all of the above activity wasn’t enough to make your head spin, Linden has also landed one of the most coveted synch placements with an Apple MacBook Pro launch advert. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Linden+Jay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.