There are several bands with the name Lionheart:

1) Lionheart is a British hard rock supergroup formed in late 1980, originally featuring singer Jess Cox (ex-Tygers of Pan Tang), guitarist Dennis Stratton (ex-Iron Maiden), guitarist Steve Mann (ex-Liar, later with MSG, Michael Schenker and Eloy), and bassist/vocalist Rocky Newton (ex-The Next Band, Wildfire), and drummer Frank Noon (ex-The Next Band, Def Leppard). The band split up in 1986 but reformed in 2016 with a line-up featuring Stratton, Mann, Newton, plus vocalist Lee Small (Shy and Phenomena) and Clive Edwards (ex-UFO and Wild Horses) on drums.

2) An Alternative Rock band from Hertfordshire, England. Their eagerly anticipated first album, I Need To Shout, is soon to be independently released.

3) The second was a Rock Against Communism band also hailing from the United Kingdom which was founded in the late 80's and existed into the mid 90's.

4) Lionheart is one of U.S.A.'s leading ensembles in vocal chamber music. It is best known for its interpretation of medieval and Renaissance a cappella music, with Gregorian Chant as the keystone of its repertoire.

5) A Russian melodic power metal band.

6) Hailing from the San Francisco Bay area, Lionheart are at the forefront of the new breed of hardcore monsters.
Clearly influenced by NYHC and rooted in “mosh core”, Lionheart have enough technical ability and metal influence to also appael to a broader range of aggressive music fans. “The Will To Survive” was originally released by Sacramento’s West Coast Worlwide in late 2007, and quickly sold over 1,000 copies with no retail presence or distribution at all, solely via mail order and through the band during their rugged tour schedule.
Following in the foot steps of Northern California bands like Hoods and Powerhouse, the band has built an intensely loyal grassroots following. Lionheart’s lyrics deal with strength, pride and growing up in a world with no handouts.
It will be only a matter of time before Lionheart are mentioned along with bands like Terror, Hatebreed and Madball.

Lionheart is:

Vocals – Rob Watson
Guitar – Rob McCarthy
Guitar – Earl Pitts
Bass – Evan Krejci
Drums – Jay Scott <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lionheart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.