Formed in 2000, LIQUID SKY first gained attention with their self-released EPs “Adrenochrome” (2001) and “Nightfall” (2003) and album “Bloodline” (2004). Displaying a completely new approach to the ‘female vocals in metal’ genre and featuring songs that showcased a never-before-heard mix of metal ferocity and beautiful melody, these releases helped the band develop and solidify a reputation as Britain’s best-kept metal secret.

In recent years, the band have mixed regular support slots with bands such as Skyclad, Skindred, Xandria and Octavia Sperati with incendiary headlining shows, winning them a loyal and constantly expanding army of fans. A blistering performance at the 2004 Bloodstock Festival (alongside such luminaries as Children of Bodom, Threshold, Evergrey, Gamma Ray and Sonata Arctica) was a particular highlight. The band also undertook a co-headlining tour of the UK in 2006 with American band Nicodemus, exposing a whole new group of fans to the LIQUID SKY sound.

Building on the success of their previous releases and a wave of popular support, 2008 saw the band unleash a brand new album (and first on new label INSOMNIA MEDIA) entitled “Identity”. Mixed and mastered by Threshold’s Karl Groom, the album shows all of the trademarks of great metal anthems – massive riffs, instantly memorable melodies and emotive solos, all blending together to create a heavy and dynamic metal sound which is also very accessible. Following the album release to universal acclaim, the band undertook a headlining UK tour in February and March 2008 and will be appearing at Rock Of Ages Festival and Metieval Festival in the summer, along with another UK tour later in the year. 

The band features the rhythm section of Den Constable on bass and Stuart Wright on drums, providing a powerful and precise foundation for the band’s epic sound. Guitarists Jonathan Craven and Andy Midgley trade punishing rhythms and ferocious lead lines, aided in this furious metal barrage by keyboardist Rick Ogden, who adds sweeping symphonic sounds and electronic wizardry to a well-established metal blueprint. The line-up is completed by new singer Tiffeny Joyce, whose soaring vocals and haunting melodies will captivate and amaze audiences in equal measure. 

With a sound more akin to Swedish metal than European operatic metal bands, LIQUID SKY are at the cutting-edge and embody the new breed of metal musicians; intense, powerful and ready to make music you'll always remember.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Liquid+Sky">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.