Lizzy McChesney, better known by the stage name Lissy Trullie, is an American singer and former model. She also performs with her band named Lissy Trullie, and released her debut EP, 'Self-Taught Learner', in February 2009. Trullie was born in Washington, D.C. and moved to New York City at the age of 16 with her mother. She attended Walnut Hill School, a boarding school in Natick, Massachusetts with a focus on performing arts, and then attended Parsons in Greenwich Village, New York City, where she studied graphic design. Trullie performed at art openings, but soon gravitated towards the downtown rock scene. Trullie spent time working as a model, a dishwasher, a janitor, and a disc jockey at the Beatrice Inn. She has appeared in the fashion magazines Elle, SOMA, and Jalouse, and was the face of actress Chloë Sevigny’s clothing line. Trullie released her debut EP, Self-Taught Learner, in February 2009 on American Myth Recordings, whose cover features a woman's posterior clad in hot pants, taken from a 1970s pornographic magazine. She has signed with the record label Wichita Recordings, which will release her EP in Europe. Trullie performs with a four piece rock band, also named Lissy Trullie, which includes Trullie on vocals and guitar, Josh Elrod on drums, Eben D’Amico, formerly bassist with Saves the Day, on lead guitar, and Ian Fenger on bass. The group often performs a cover song in their live sets, including Biz Markie's "Just a Friend", Hot Chip's "Ready for the Floor", which is included on their debut EP, and Amy Winehouse’s "Rehab". The group is touring the U.S. along with The Virgins and Anya Marina in May-June 2009.

The Observer grouped Trullie in with other singers gaining notice with their distinct fashion, 1980s references, and androgyny, including Lady Gaga, Little Boots, Ladyhawke, and Elly Jackson's synth duo La Roux.

As of 2016, Trullie is the lead singer for the rock band Zipper Club.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lissy+Trullie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.