There are multiple artists named Listen:

1. One of Robert Plant's earliest groups. He joined them from the  Crawling Kingsnakes. The rest of the group were  John Crutchley, Roger Beaver and Geoff Thompson. The group was regarded as a Tamla Motown -style band with something of a Mod image. They released one record You Better Run in 1966. In 1967 the group broke up and Robert Plant joined the Band Of Joy.

2.  Members of Listen include Michal Menert, Derek Vincent Smith, and Corey Eberhart, Ken Daley, Ben Schroer(briefly). Rap group before Pretty Lights Music really took off. 2005-2007 Albums: Listen, Cares, One Piece Puzzle.

3.  Listen! was an experimental hardcore mathrock band from Dallas, Texas. They existed from 1997-2003. They released two albums("Bashing EP" ,"Self Titled" LP) and appeared on the (5Elements compilation).

4. Listen (Treehouse  S12-432)  1973.  Four longhaired teen guys and their excellent homemade acoustic rock endeavor with relaxed guitars-only wholesome earthy in-tune-with-nature sound. The songs are moving, sorrowful, hypnotic, melancholy, sincere, deeply meditative – the guy I got this from thought they sounded like Azitis unplugged and I’m inclined to agree. Nice dreamy atmosphere from the plaintive harmonies and interplay of the three guitars, bringing a moody surreal presence to songs like ‘Clouds And Suns’, ‘Why’, ‘Jesus Love’, ‘Forgive’, ‘His Face’, ‘Chapel’ and ‘Nows’. Upbeat strummed moods on ‘Prisoner’s Prayer’ and the brisk jangly opener ‘Spring Thing’. ‘Relativity’ and the mostly instrumental ‘The Unknown Sea’ are spoken poems backed by acoustic guitar. The guys got their start at a talent show in 1970 at Camp Lutherhoma in eastern Oklahoma. Really strikes a chord. The album has recently gotten a reputation among psych collectors and can now go for some large dollars. (The Archivist, 4th edition by Ken Scott). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Listen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.