Swedish pop singer Little Jinder (Astrid Maria Josefine Jinder, née Stove), born February 20, 1988 in Skarpnäcks, Stockholm County.
Daughter of Bjorn Stove and Åsa Jinder (performer and nyckelharpist, youngest national musician of all time on the nyckelharpa) She lived in London during the study  at the Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts (one of the best performing arts schools in the world, co-founded by Lead Patron Sir Paul McCartney and Mark Featherstone-Witty) 

Little Jinder has met with great success and has become one of the most famous Swedish artists in 2015. Her self-titled album from 2014 was awarded a Grammy for Best Pop and she has been hailed as a producer and songwriter. Little Jinder has played at the biggest festivals in Sweden, including the Bråvalla and Way Out West in 2015.

Little Jinder made her debut with the Polyhedron E.P. in August 2008, followed in March 2009 with the 'Youth Blood EP', released by the US record label Trouble & Bass Recordings. She has also toured and played in Europe and USA. 

In 2010, she was a panel member of the Sveriges Radio program Best i test.

 In 2011, she performed at the Winter Music Conferance in Miami and Ultra Music Festival just as Coachella. Her debut music album was released on 22 May 2013 for Goldenbest Records, the same year she changed from recording and performing in English to Swedish when the music single 'Shh' was released in November. That music single was followed by the songs 'Ful och tråkig tjej' and 'Inga E som vi E'. 
In the end of August 2014 she released her biggest hit single so far called 'Vita Bergens klockor' which is a duet with Rebecca & Fiona.

In November 2014 she released her first Swedish language music album called Little Jinder, and on 13 December she performed with Julia Spada the song 'Nåt e väldigt fel'.

On 25 February 2015 Little Jinder won a Grammis-award for 'Pop of the Year'. In the Summer She released the single 'Sommarnatt', and performed at several summer festivals. At 'Way Out West' she was a guest star on stage during the performances from Rebecca & Fiona and as well as Zara Larsson. On 20 November 2015 she released the single 'Hångellåsten' along with singer Mauro Scocco. 

On 14 January 2016, Little Jinder released her third album 'Allting Suger'. She won 'Pop of the Year' at the P3 Guld-gala. Jinder appeared on the cover of the music magazine 'Gaffa' in its February issue of 2016. In March 2016 Little Jinder announced that she would appear in the seventh season of the TV4 show 'Så mycket bättre' along with other known names in Swedish music.

On 1 July 2016,  just as promised release Little Jinder the new single 'Jag måste sluta som jag lever för evigt'.
It is a collaboration with Kent's Martin Shield, and the song's productions are not entirely unlike what Kent themselves could conjure up. It leaves behind the impression that Josefine's inner grief is reflected in some verses. And rarely does a Swedish artist accomplish its thoughts and feelings so convincingly in lyrics as Little Jinder.

On 22 October 2016, Little Jinder performed 'Du vill ha sex med mig' in Swedish TV4. Tommy Nilsson addressed the original version 'Vill du ha sex med mig' to his then wife Malin Winfrey in 2005. For the performance in Så mycket bättre (Swedish TV4) Josefine dubbed the song title to 'Du vill ha sex med mig'. The song topped straightway the Swedish charts.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Little+Jinder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.