The group from Voronezh, Russia LITTLE DEAD BERTHA was founded in march 1994 with following members: Sergey Galushko - guitars, Alexander Romashov - vocal, Jury Sveshnikov - bass. After change of several drummers the group stand your choice on Dmitry Paltsev. So the group began to work under their first material in thrash-metal style. It has been recorded two rehearsal demos (all about 45 min.), then the group has headed back for doom-metal. The second guitarist Stanislav Chursin and Veronica Belyaeva - violin and vocal has adjoined to the band. In July, 1995 was recorded the first two-songs demo "The Reflection About Angels", then take away in army Jury (august) and after that Alexander leaves the group (october).  

The new bass -guitarist Alexey Skorovarov has come. And the vocalist Dmitry Zamaruev is appeared only in February 1996. In this line-up since November 1996 till April 1997 was recorded the "In Memorium Premortis" album (9 tracks, 47 min.). This demo is issued on MC on Moscow label HOBGOBLIN Rec. In November 1997, line-up increases up to seven persons with arrival Maria Sotnikova - keyboards.

In the beginning of July 1999, the band has recorded the new program "Two sides…" (10 tracks, 61 min.). This material is sustain also in doom-metal style, but became more vigorous and melodious, that has allowed musicians to get rid of the comparisons with MY DYING BRIDE, and also more technical and professional by way of a sound. During the work above an album, a crisis was started in a band, which has resulted in Stanislav, Alexey, Dmitry's Z. and Maria leaving. Having remained together, Sergey and Dmitry P. begin search of new musicians. Jury has come back from army, and joined to band again. Later, Dmitry Z. comes back too. The line-up is completed with Tatyana Vojtenko - keyboards (January 2000). The "Two sides…" album is issued on MC on HOBGOBLIN rec in September, 2000.

The band has decides to reduce the name up to BERTHA and starts to work above a new material in line-up: Sergey (guitars), Dmitry Z. (vocal), Jury (bass), Dmitry P. (drums), Tatyana (keyboards), and also Svetlana Hodyakova (back vocal). Work above an album proceeded two years and has been finished in December 2002. Such long term has been connected to search of new sound in the updated structure, and as different unforeseen circumstances (the computer with almost mixed material has been stolen from the studio).
Music of a new album (14 track, over 67 min.) is sustained in style gothic-metal. In July 2003, the new album "Light And Shadows" has been released on VALIANT MUSIC Prod. on CD. In September 2003 the group is return the old name LITTLE DEAD BERTHA. At the February 2004 the "Two sides…" is reissued on CD on STYGIAN CRYPT Prod. 
Now the band start to recording a new material (8 songs, 48 min.), which will be sustained in style melodic death-black. The new album should turn out faster and extreme than early albums, but also will keep melody and recognition, which are firm style LITTLE DEAD BERTHA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Little+Dead+Bertha">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.