- 92
The band was created April - 92 in Ume책 SWEDEN

With instantlly drive to make own song's they played covers for 3 years at the local pubs, in order to finance their 1 st album.

- 95
They started to record their 1 st album.

- 96
Their 1 st album "Skin n' bone" released in April. (No label, they released it on their own). They got great rewiewvfrom the biggest paper in Sweden called Aftonbladet.
Tried to get a deal & some labels were intressted - but nothing solid the band felt.

They were specialguest to "Deep Purple" on their worldtour summer of -96 in Ume책 Sweden.

Working on new song's. Mogge met Kee Marcello former Europe guitarist at a workshop & gave him theri 1 st album. Kee called him up some month later & said: - This is a really great album with a fresh new sound !!!

In order to help "Live" get a great deal, Kee gave Mogge the number to a guy called Zinny J. San. (Kee & Zinny played in the same band "Easy Action" in the 80:s. Zinny was also big with at band called "Shotgun Messiah" in the early 90:s. Now Zinny have his band "Zan Clan" & it's going real well 4 him !!! )

- 97
Zinny got really exited bout the album as well & offerd to help them in the U.S.A. Zinny rushed to the states in the summer of -97 in order to try to get them & his new band "Zan Clan" a deal. In the autumn Zinny called Mogge & told him that some labels in the states were really intressted ! The recordlable "Relativity records" had decided to give them a recorddeal !!! WOW !!! Bands like Zinny's Shotgun Messiah, Biohazard, Corrosion of Conformity, Steve Vai, Joe Satriani etc were on this label.

At the same time Mogge were in touch with Hempo Hillden drummer of John Norum (Europe). Live were specialguest to John in Ume책 Sweden in the autumn of - 97 !!!

- 98
Live started to record their new album in Jan - 98 for Relativity Records. Relativity were really satisfied with the album !!! But in the same sentens they also told us... that sometime during the process the Hip Hop wave had sky rocket. They decided to push everthing aside to spend every cent on HipHop !!! FUCK !!! Fait...?! NOT ment to be...?!

To clean up the money mess Live played covers like whores... again. Working hard to get a new deal. Some labels were real intressted but nothing really kicked off 4 Live.

- 99
Live were specialguest to John Norum in Ume책 Sweden. Working on new song's.
Should be support act to "Saxon" but sicness crusched it.

- 00
Rock - SM in Stockholm Sweden - Funny !!! Our 1 st "real" gig in Stockholm at the Bar "Pub Anchor"! Cool place with lots of musicians.

Still no satisfying labels... and after a rough time with many sleepless night's... the band decides to release their new album on their own again - whitout any label. But how the fuck could we get the money to release it ?! Some more WHORE-COVER-PLAYING... again. But after this... this was the last fucking time man... never more !!! Puke... womit ...Blood.. iNsAnE........

2:nd Album "Masterhead" released in Mars - with John Norum who also released his new album "Slipped into tomorrow".

In touch with some Swedish labels. Some had great visions 4 us in Japan & Germany

- 01
We finally inked a contract with a Swedish label !!!
Working on new song's.

- 02
Playing live - everywhere.

The label did'nt felt confortable to us anymore, the fire & the visions were gone... so we signed off !!! - On our own again !!!

New demo song's recorded.

In touch with new labels, some intressed.

- 03
Working real hard on new song's. Live decides to record their 3:rd album. In April Live records drums & bass on 17 new song's in just 3 days - Puh !!! Lack of money... - U now it !!!

This time Live also have decided to do the recordings whenever they have the money in their hands, instead of killing themselves with eternal bankloans... & eternal mortgages. 'Cause of that... it gonna take some time to finish it this time. But what the fuck we have no other choice, we have to try !!!

During the summer Live sporadiclly records giutars. ('Cause of lack of money). In the autumn some vocals starts to find it's place.

- 04
Working sporadiclly in the studio. (Still lack of money). Shoting a DVD to get a chanse to be support act to "Europe" on their worldtour. Real close actually... - But not really to the finishline in the end. Well, well...

- 05
13 years celebrations of the bands existence !!!

Still working on the new album. Starting to see the end of it.

In July we are finally finished !!! YES !!! It only toke us 2 years... Ha ha ha...
12 prime new song's are finished. But we will never make a record this way again... it took.... toooo loooong... InSaNiTy !!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Live+Elephant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.