There  are multiple artists with the name 'Living Room'.

1. A Prague band formed in 2003.
2. A Swiss singer-songwriter group formed in 2004.
3. Christoph Pepe Auer and Manu Delago project
4. The solo project of Alex Stooshinoff from Saskatchewan,Canada, focusing on the genres of indie rock, ambient and drone.
5. An indie rock band from New York. - https://livingrm.bandcamp.com/

1. Living Room is Prague band formed in 2003. Its style encompasses elements of indie, rock, pop and alternative. "It makes no sense to try to exactly define the band's style, because what may be perceived as pop in Britain is very often taken as alternative here in the Czech Republic and additionally, those who claim to play pop here... well, it's usually a waste of time to talk about them..." thinks Living Room. However, they are obviously inspired mainly by British or American bands including trendy 70s and 80s retro wave; but surprisingly they also don't refuse to listen to electronic music or even hip-hop. By the way, has it crossed your mind that the name of the band comes from the album of Norwegians Jagga Jazzist called "A Living Room Hush"...?

2. Living Room is a Swiss singer-songwriter group formed in 2004. The trio tells stories drawn from life in the form of songs in the singer-songwriter tradition. The instrumentation of voice, acoustic guitar, e-basso and drums creates and gives room for the characteristic sound of the band in which ingenious harmonies and rhythms play an important role. 
The three members of the band are bound together by a long-standing friendship and different conjoint projects. 
Miriam Schweizer (voice and guitar) and Simon Gysi (bass, backing vocals) have worked together intensively since 2004. 
In 2006  Samuel Winkler (drums) completed the band. 
“Living Room” offers room and life – just like a living room.
Their first album "Delivered By Forceps" will be released 20th february 2009 on hinterhaus-records.

3. This pioneer duo focuses on exploring the bass clarinet’s huge tonal range and the enchanting sound of the Hang. Having formed in 2006, ‘Living Room’ have toured in more than 20 countries all over the world.

Whilst continuously pushing the boundaries within a variety of musical styles, their unusual pairing of instruments creates a highly unique texture of sounds. The first-ever Bass Clarinet - Hang - duo approaches their fresh take on chamber music without any confinements or restrictions, performing original compositions as well as creative arrangements of popular music, by artists such as Nirvana and The Beatles. 
Their shows are full of surprise and chance, often having left audiences wonderstruck, bewildered and bemused.

4. Living Room is the solo project of Alex Stooshinoff. It is currently based in Saskatoon, SK. Canada. Stasis is a six-part ambient suite home recorded by Stooshinoff over a nine-month period. He worked in collaboration with visual artist Zac Knuttila to produce a full-length video designed to be a visual companion to the music.
Stasis was formed from a long period of experimentation. Somewhere along the way, Stooshinoff began making drones and ambient music. Distancing himself from structures of absolute beginnings and endings, the songs of Stasis began to coalesce into something more complete, a unified piece with connecting movements just as important as each song.
Stasis is a meditation on the pillars that ground us, and a reconciliation of the forces that change us. It is an exploration of self, with songs intended to evoke the sounds and emotions of Stooshinoff’s Ayahuasca experiences, repetition and continuity meant to reflect a constant and disorienting headspace, and lyrics about value, loss, and the importance of self-control. 

5. Indie Rock band signed by Fear Icon Records from New York featuring Scott Fitzpatrick - guitar/vocals, John Nicholls - guitar/vocals, Kevin Dobbins - bass, and Fred Trumpy - drums
https://livingrm.bandcamp.com/
https://www.instagram.com/living_room_2000/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Living+Room">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.