There are several bands called Livid

1. A band from the UK. Formed in 1999.

2. A band from Ohio.

3. A band from Tallahassee, Florida.

4. Punk band from San Francisco, California.

5. Doom metal band from Minneapolis, Minnesota.

6. A powerviolence band from Kenosha, Wisconsin

7.  Punk band from London, UK. 

Livid London, UK
Punk Rock frumme London, UK 
Vocals - Alex (she/her)
Guitar - Georgina (they/them)
Bass - Emma (she/her)
Drums - Gabi Shay
(she/her)
https://lividpunx.bandcamp.com/

LiViD UK

Taking influence from era-defining acts such Aerosmith, Led Zeppelin, U2, Motley Crue, Cream, Metallica and The Rolling Stones, LiViD has an unmatched determination to succeed.
After racking up Over 200 dates and almost 20,000 miles in the last two years, the group have experienced every type of performance venue, from their early days of pubs and theatres to festivals and top venues such as the London Astoria.

Psy Ward (Vox, Piano, Rhy guit), 
Steve Paris (Lead Guit, B.Vox), 
Ency (Bass, B.Vox) and 
Phill Ward (Drums)
make up the compelling entity.

LiViD is an energetic, passionate, colourful band whose music incorporates some of the best elements of 70s hard rock and 80s metal to produce a rare blend of powerful vocals that soar over sizzling solos, heady guitar grooves and rockin' melodies

2011 will bring LiViD's very own online TV show, Project Shatner!! See more at www.youtube.com/LiViDvids

Livid US

genre: Hard Rock / Alternative Metal
Location: Cincinnati, Ohio / Northern Kentucky
Influences: Sevendust, Mudvayne, Breaking Benjamin, Chevelle, Tool, Soilwork, System of a Down, Taproot,  and Deftones

Members:
Christe Ross – Vocals
Paul Noia – Guitars, Keyboards, Backing Vocals
John Vitellaro – Guitars, Backing Vocals
Tim Brown – Bass, Backing Vocals
Doug Morgan – Drums, Samples, Backing Vocals

Livid has cultivated a substantial and faithful Cincinnati fanbase through fabricating a fresh taste founded with vigor, sentiment, and passion. The band’s dedicated followers are a direct reflection of the drive they possess to produce relevant, infectious music.
Livid completed their first full length album in early 2010, “Aoaé,” which is available on iTunes, Rhapsody, Amazon, Last.fm, Zune, Napster, Verizon and other media websites. The LP features ten tracks of electrifying, stimulating, and other present participles of brilliance. The track “Pseudonym” has already gained much praise from the local media, finding its home on Cincinnati’s leading rock station, WEBN. “More than a Cigarette Burn,” written by songwriter and rhythm guitarist John Vitellaro, relates heavily to the burdens carried so readily by United States service members through searing riffs and melodic undertones. “In the Moment (reprise),” illustrates that frontman Christe Ross and lead guitarist Sean Snyder are multi-faceted musicians with the versatility to make the word “genre” a minor detail.

Livid, FL

A hardcore band from Tallahassee, Florida.  They like All Out War and moshing.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Livid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.