Emerging out of Long Beach, CA... ALLL DAAYY!!! LMNO (Leave My Name Out), is undoubtedly one of the most distinct voices from the LA underground embodying a lyrical skater/surfer slashing through the streets of a city "where Cadilacs have surf racks." 

LMNO was introduced to the music industry in late 80's early 90's witnessing at first hand the N.W.A. legacy, (see the LMNO's cameo appearance in the D.O.C.'s "Formula" video with Dr. Dre). LMNO was recruited by Rhyme Syndicate to be in his first group with fellow Visionaries member Key-Kool. After the group disbanded, LMNO worked on various demo projects until his debut on the Circle of Power (of Blak Forest) album. LMNO then contributed works on the Blak Forest crew album "You are Now Entering." 

With the West Coast Underground and it's rising star Ras Kass grabbing the attention of the hip-hop world, heads on the West and East tuned into Key-Kool & Rhettmatic's "E=MC5," a posse cut featuring Ras Kass and his crew Western Hemisfear; ironically, the "white kid" from Long Beach named LMNO shocked audiences with the infamous "Don't f--- with LMNO, or I'll send your demo tape to Jerry Heller" From that point, LMNO began gaining attention, and could very well have fallen into the "shock-line rapper" category, yet, this spiritually maturing artist chose quite a different path, and left the "tongue & cheek" style for others to exploit. 

Charging forward as a spiritual soldier, with faith and JAH as motivation, LMNO began evolving as an artist and a person. After shaping and voicing his views on the Visionaries albums "Galleries" and "Sophomore Jinx," LMNO was ready for his debut solo effort. His debut 12 inch sleeper cult-classic "Hit the Fence," as well as the popular 12" inch releases "Radiant" and "Grin & Bear It" had heads waiting for a full length album. 

LMNO's "Leave My Name Out" (Up Above Records) includes his popular singles, along with brilliant LMNO/MadLib team-up "Head Lock," yet it is the spiritually truthful, life-driven songs that seemed most appropriately reflective of the times in which the album was released: just after the tragic events of 9/11. 

LMNO has been putting in much work with Visionaries doing numerous shows, recordings and touring. LMNO is currently promoting his third album " P's & Q's " IN STORES NOW on UP ABOVE RECORDS/CAROLINE DISTRIBUTION. 
LMNO is still putting in much work with Visionaries doing numerous shows, recordings and touring. He is currently promoting his fifth album "WORKETHIC" IN STORES Jan. 23rd on Technicali Sound / Super D Distribution... Give Thanks & GOD BLESS <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/LMNO">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.