There are two bands named Loaded for Bear, one is an alternative band from Portland, OR, the other is a grindcore band from Chicago, IL

Loaded for Bear was formed in October of 2007 near Portland, Oregon as a slow confluence of mutual musical interests gathering around a growing collection of songs written for the piano.  After more than a year of writing and arranging, the five-piece spent the fall of 2008 and winter of 2009 recording and mixing their full-length debut album ‘A Following Sea’ with Justin Phelps of Hawthorne Bridge Recording.  The record was mastered by Ed Brooks at RFI in Seattle in the spring and was released in July of 2009.  The music is atmospheric, melodic piano-based rock, backed by progressive beats and autumnal layers of guitars, organs, Rhodes and strings. Classical and post-rock elements blend with playfully surreal lyrics to form dark, sometimes dancy, sometimes haunting tunes that conjure up hills and fog and trees and space; old-world carnival, vague disaster and a compass rose.

LOADED FOR BEAR  is a grindcore/powerviolence band from Chicago, IL revolving around brilliant guitar compositions and amazing drum lines. The band is the brainchild of Chris Hopkins (Guitar) and Scott Uppstad (Drums), who have been in and out of bands as a duo for more than 10 years. Bill Moore (vocals) has been with the band since its inception, and they played as a three-piece for the better part of their first year in 2002. Brian Zimmerman was later added as Bassist, but left the band due to differences on both sides. The band remained a three-piece once again until Max Bialka was asked to play Bass. That lineup currently exists to this day. The band has been on hiatus since their tour with Lousianna hardcore band We Need To Talk in the winter of 2007. New material is being written but no plans for tour are being made. LOADED FOR BEAR is still a roman holiday, all seminal fluids and backseat fumbling on leather interiors.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Loaded+for+Bear">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.