1) One of the greatest bands of the hardcore scene in Brazil, they started in 1984 as a raw hardcore band in the vein of the UK 82 generation, and then going to a more thrash metal direction, doing the crossover style.

They appeared in the Ataque Sonoro compilation of 1985 (with Ratos de Porão, Cólera, Garotos Podres, among others), and have two Lp's, released in the 80's, Lobotomia in 1986 and Nada É Como Parece (stands for "nothing is like it seems") in 1989.

In 1984, the members of the band were Grego on drums, Caio on vocals, Billy Adherbal on guitars and Alfredo on bass. They used to reheash on Cólera studio and there, they record a demo tape.

After the appearance in the Ataque Sonoro compilation, they had a change in the line up, when the bassist female Zezé entered replacing Alfredo. With this line up, they recorded their debut LP, called only Lobotomia, still very hardcore album but with some thrash metal influences appearing, especially on guitar works.

In 1988, the band suffer more changes in the line up, with the fall of the bassist Zezé and the vocalist Caio. In their places joined the band the bassist Flavinho and the vocalist Marcão, together with a second guitarrist called Paulão.

With this line up, they released in 1989 the album Nada É Como Parece (stands for "nothing is like it seems"). Much more crossover, this album is very much more close of bands like D.R.I. than the old raw hardcore.

They were one of the most know bands in the final 80's in Brazil, playing together with bands like Korzus, Ratos de Porão, Executer among others, but no longer after the release of Nada É Como Parece, they split up.

However, they have reformed and are planning a new album. Grego made contacts with the old members, and Marcão and Billy Adherbal returned. To complete the line up, they have recruited Christian Fralda on bass (ex-Ratos de Porão).

For more information and news on the band, you can visit their blog at http://lobotomiapunk.blogspot.com/

2) Also Finnish producer. Member of collabo called Freaky Beats. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lobotomia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.