There are more than one artist with this name:

1) Swedish punk band

2) Damn, has it been 3 years? Oh, well… Time flies when you’re playing music! Lobotomi started out as Peeping Tom, and back then it was only the hopeless outcast-drummer Rasmus Andre Greni Hatcher and slightly geeky guitar player and singer Andreas Veie-Rosvoll. They decided that their musical chemistry had to be preserved and they united in the name of…eh, ignorance. Still lacking a bass player, Lobotomi played their first gig with hired gun-bassist Andreas Anker. Three years later, still going strong and playing as many gigs as possible! With songs that span from 3 minutes to 18 minutes! Attend one of their live shows, and satisfaction guaranteed! Bright and dedicated members promise an equally bright future for the progressive metal band Lobotomi!

Andreas Anker: Bass player and occasional growler Anker knows no boundaries on stage or bass. This man is capable of playing anything from Enya to Strapping Young Lad! He is a train. His long, woman-like hair only adds to his onstage-existence. With a new, grim 5-string LTD bass, it is a new dawning for this machine, and you will definitely see him as his stage presence is somewhat enchanting! Favourite Lobotomi song: “The new one” In production and kicking ass Written by Andreas

Rasmus Andre Greni Hatcher: Drummer with an incredible accuracy and stamina and libido! The only one within the band who has his very own fanbase (I believe they’re called “Be My Mayor, Rasmus”) Never one to conform, Rasmus is tr00 metal both in clothing and drumming. Loud, crazy and chipmunk are the best words to sum up this guy. I know he hates it when I say it, but listen to our song “RS” for his amazing drumming skills. Favourite Lobotomi song: “Tranquillizer” or “The Illness pt.III” Written by Andreas

Andreas Veie-Rosvoll: Is a guitar player with great talent both on stage and off stage where you’ll usually find him playing with Ankers long, soft and curly hair. With confidence and pride he improves his skills on guitar, vocal and drumming that pushes the whole band to another level. The only way to describe him is as the funky, rocky, progmetalifiedmonkey that he is. This Bagder bites! Favourite Lobotomi song: “Tranquillizer” or “The Illness pt.III” Written by Rasmus 

Andreas Veie-Rosvoll - Vocals and Guitar
Andreas Anker - Bass
Rasmus Andre G. Hatcher - Drums/perc  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lobotomi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.