LOCH VOSTOK , named after a subterranean lake in Antarctica, rose out of the collapse of Progressive Metal band Mayadome in 2001.

After 10 years Drummer Teddy Möller was tired of the cheeze and decided to start something more meaty, hence LOCH VOSTOK was born.

Three core members, Mayadome founder Teddy Möller, Keyboardist Sebastian Okupski and Bass Player Erik Grandin set about formulating a new act.

Möller would switch from his erstwhile role as a Drummer to that of Lead Vocalist/Guitarist and with the incorporation of former Ramrod, 5 Steps Ahead and El Presidente guitarist Niklas Kupper alongside ex-Azotic Reign, 5 Steps Ahead, El Presidente and Imperial Domain drummer Alvaro Torres the band was complete.

However, Grandin was to relocate to the USA and so former Mellow Poetry guitarist Tomas "Tym" Jonsson stepped in to fill the bass vacancy.

Utilising producer Daniel Bergstrand LOCH VOSTOK cut a self financed album 'Dark Logic' entirely based upon infamous serial killers such as Henry Lee Lucas, Andreij Tzjikatilo and Ed Gein. The first label to pick up the album for distribution would be the Russian concern CD-Maximum.

Shortly after the Russian release, Portugese label Magnetism Records contracted LOCH VOSTOK , and released 'Dark Logic' worldwide August 1st 2004.

Sebastian Okupski decided to focus on his cover band "Bulldog" and is keeping himself busy with that, so LOCH VOSTOK then decided to find another keyboardist for the band.

Andreas Lindahl from fellow-Swedish metal act Platitude offered his services. He played some live shows and recorded the new album with LOCH VOSTOK but then decided to leave because of the distance between Gothenburg, where he lives, and Uppsala where the other guys live and rehearse.

LOCH VOSTOK is a real band, not just another project, so they had every intention of finding a real full time member, who was also willing to take part in the whole songwriting process.

Anima Morte keyboardist/composer Fredrik Klingwall had been a friend of Teddy and Niklas for quite a while since he recorded two demos and an album at Teddy's Blueflame Productions. They already got along real well, and was asked to join LOCH VOSTOK. Luckily he said "ja för fan" (wich roughly translates to Fuck yeah) and so, another chapter starts... welcome to the team Fredrik.

In early 2006 the second album, "Destruction Time Again", was completed and released worldwide in April 2006 by Escapi Music coinciding with Loch Vostok's Scandinavian tour with King Diamond and Secret Sphere. The response on the album as well on the live performances of Loch Vostok has been amazing and we're all looking forward to taking this band another step further :-)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Loch+Vostok">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.