There are multiple artists with this name:
1. A British deathgrind band
2. A late 80's American hard rock band
3. A Malaysian band

1. Lock Up is a grindcore sideproject supergroup originally formed by Shane Embury (Napalm Death, Venomous Concept), Nicholas Barker (ex-Cradle of Filth, Dimmu Borgir) and Jesse Pintado (Napalm Death, Terrorizer). Lock Up was joined by Peter Tägtgren (Hypocrisy) for its debut album, 1999's Pleasures Pave Sewers, and Tomas Lindberg (At The Gates, Disfear) for 2002's Hate Breeds Suffering and a Japanese tour.

The band was later joined by guitarist Anton Reisenegger (Chile's Pentagram and Criminal) in place of the late Pintado.

Lock Up have played very few live shows. In 2009, the band announced that they would play the Damnation Festival that year. The line-up featured Embury, Barker, Lindberg and Reisenegger. It was touted as the band's last ever live show; however, they later booked more shows for 2010.

On December 3, 2010 Lock Up uploaded the first new piece of music in eight years, a track titled "Life of Devastation", to the band's official MySpace page. The song is set to appear on a split seven-inch single with Misery Index in 2011.

The band's third studio album, Necropolis Transparent, was recorded in November and December 2010 at HVR Studios in Ipswich, England, and features guest appearances by Peter Tägtgren and Jeff Walker (Carcass, Brujeria). It will be released on July 1 in Europe and July 12 in North America by Nuclear Blast Records.[3]


2)  Lock Up was a band from USA. The band was formed by Tom Morello (Rage Against the Machine). They released one album, titled Something Bitchin' This Way Comes
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lock_Up_(American_band)

3)  Lock Up is a band from Malaysia specializing in hip hop and dappangkuthu music. Former members include Dr. Burn and Mista G <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lock+Up">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.