Locrian is an experimental / drone three-piece band from Chicago, Illinois, United States formed in late 2005.

The band's music was described by Allmusic as an "eclectic mixture of black metal, electronics, drone, and noise rock". Allmusic writer Ned Raggett also identified progressive rock influences on The Crystal World. The band have identified krautrock and 1990s death metal as influences.

Locrian was formed in late 2005 by André Foisy and Terence Hannum, who had previously played together in Unlucky Atlas. Foisy is originally from Northern New York, while Hannum is from Florida. The group has released over 20 recordings in their relatively short lifespan, on labels such as Small Doses, Bloodlust!, and At War With False Noise, as well as on the group's private label Land of Decay.

In 2009, the band released their first studio album, Drenched Lands. The album was met with acclaim from the Chicago Tribune, the Chicago Reader, and Rock-A-Rolla magazine. Locrian followed its release with a United States tour, including a special Pitchfork Media sponsored Show No Mercy show in New York City, New York.

Their 2009 Rain of Ashes release features two 30-minute long tracks recorded live at the University of Maryland's radio station WMUC.

A second album, Territories, was released in 2010, which took the band in a more rock-oriented direction, featuring guest appearances from members of Nachtmystium, Bloodyminded, Yakuza, and Velnias, and this was followed by a third, The Crystal World, later the same year, the title coming from a J. G. Ballard novel.

The Crystal World features a new member, percussionist Steven Hess.

Locrian provided the soundtrack to Scott Treleaven's film piece The Last 7 Words featuring Genesis P-Orridge.

In addition to playing in the band, Terence Hannum is an installation artist who exhibited at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago in 2007, and at the Peeler Art Center in 2010. Both Hannum and Foisy teach at Columbia College Chicago.

http://www.myspace.com/thelocrian
https://www.facebook.com/LocrianOfficial

http://eepurl.com/mSy-b
Sign up for the Relapse Records newsletter to stay up to date on all the latest Locrian news, tour dates and merch! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Locrian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.