Despite of numerous setbacks, Estonia's Loits has been marching proudly on their chosen path since 1996, being always at odds with the widespread white-and-black approach of history and truth. Today we are looking to the future with an upright and clear attitude, hoping that one day our message would be understood.

After originally forming in Tallinn, Estonia in 1996, the battalion Loits made its first serious steps in spring of 1999, when A. Kalm, M. Divine and Karje joined the Storm initiated by Lembetu. The first studio recording was completed on the same year and a tour “Baltic Thunder” that comprised of six concerts in three Baltic countries was carried out together with Manatark, Dissimulation and Heresiarh.

The year 2000 started tragically. The guitar player A. Kalm departed this life on April 26. The empty place in the band was fulfilled with an old comrade Gates, with whom the first rehearsal demo was recorded in May the same year. The demo was a key to the band’s first record deal. Drummer Atso was recruited in autumn and fortunantely ended the era of using programmed rhythm backgrounds in Loits.

The year 2001 started with a studio session which purpose was to release their first full-length album. The material of “Ei Kahetse Midagi” was ready by summer of the same year. Unfortunately, the record company seized to exist before they released their album. Loits did not give up and released the material on its own in the form of a cassette and started a comprehensive promotional campaign.

Supported by positive feedback, the material of “Ei Kahetse Midagi” was re-released in the format of CDR in summer of 2002 with the help of Stillborn Noize (especially only for a local audience) and in the format of MC under Beverina Production. Both publications are sold out by today.
In autumn same year, Loits entered a studio again to record their first 7” EP named “Legion Estland”, yet being unaware that the given recording would initiate the future trilogy of 7” EP-s that includes also “Raiugem Ruunideks” and “Meeste Muusika” vinyls.

In the beginning of 2003, Ledo Takas Records agreed to release the “Legion Estland” 7” EP and so the material saw daylight in autumn same year. Straight after the releasing of the vinyl, Loits went to record their next two-track material named “Raiugem Ruunideks”. Right after the studio session, Loits, with the help of comrade Tadas (Ledo Takas), cut through on its first European tour “Goat Guts Over Europe”. That tossed Loits to East, West and back again with bands like Horna, Behexen and Salacious Gods – eleven successfulA concerts in nine European countries. Loits returned wearily but with satisfaction in hearts. The name of Loits had now been engraved onto the metal-map of Europe. End of the year brought another pleasant surprise to Loits. “Ei Kahetse Midagi” album was released in the digipack CD format under the Seven Gates Of Hell Records.

The year 2004 started with another studio session. This time, Loits went to record its third 7”EP titled “Meeste Muusika”. The material proved Loits being ready for something more and slowly, negotiations with different record companies started again with a goal to find a publisher for their second full-length album. As you see, Ledo Takas Records took Loits under its wing again. In spring of 2004, Loits moved to the studio. You are now holding the result in your shaky hands!

The year 2007 Loits Released new album "Must Album" ("Black Album"). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Loits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.