There are several artists named Loki.

One of them is the rap alter ego of Darren McGarvey. This Loki is from Glasgow in Scotland and raps in his native accent and vernacular. He has recorded 6 releases to date; 'Welcome To The 9th World', 'Between Worlds', 'Friendly World', 'Do Not Disturbed' and 2 collaborative E.P.'s. One with Butterscotch titled 'Detestable Monotony', and another with Scatabrainz titled 'A Darker Shade Of Summer In Elseworld'. He has been signed to a few record labels but is currently unsigned, despite the fact that he's the most well-known rapper in the Glasgow scene to those outside of it.

The second Loki is an electronic rock band from the north-east of the United Kingdom, formed in 2010. Now operating from London under the identity Proxies, the band takes influences from a wide variety of musical genres ranging from dance rock, electronica, drum and bass as well as folk, pop punk and electro-pop.

Another Loki is an American rapper. He was closely affiliated with Brotha Lynch Hung His first two albums, Illegitimati, and 21 Gun Salute, are out on Siccmade Music. His third album was collaborated with X-Raided and is called Ignition and is on the Blockstar label. Loki is currently living in the Bay Area.

Loki is also the artist name of Luke Ellis, a drum n' bass artist from Brighton, UK. His tracks appear on Subversion Vol. 1. On the 30th of August 2010, he released the Splash Damage EP under Bad Taste Recordings [BT006DD] containing Splash Damage and Dream Weaver.

Loki is also a Melodic Post-Hardcore band formed in 2001 in Durham, UK. Loki has released 2 self-released EPs, 2004's "Passed out, Passing Time" and 2005's "Hostile Situations". The band recently signed to indie label Nautical Mile Records.

Loki is also an alternative rock band from Portland, Maine. Touring all over New England, they are inspired by bands such as RATM, Tool, and Sunny Day Real Estate.

Loki is also a Melodic/Symphonic death metal band from France. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Loki">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.