Laureen Rebeha Zoua誰 (zoo-EYE; born 5 March 1995), better known as Lolo Zoua誰, is an Algerian - French R&B/pop musician. Born to a French mother and an Algerian father in Paris, France she later moved to San Francisco, California when she was three months old. Lolo later graduated from Lowell High school in 2013. She began making music in her teen, made her way to the stage in 2017 and later released her debut album, High Highs to Low Lows in 2019.

Lolo Zoua誰 describes her songs as "bittersweet bangers", a blend of wistful emotions and hard-hitting beats. Shaped by her French-Algerian background and her Bay Area and immigrating to San Francisco from Paris after her parents won the Visa lottery, you can hear the range of these cultural influences in her music, lyrics that seamlessly switch between French and English with a little bit of Arabic. Her earliest influences ranging from E-40 to Edith Piaf, fans get a sense of Lolo's artistic ethos, multi-dimensional, multi-lingual, autobiographical, and instinctively experimental and sweetly sensual yet dark and moody.

Lolo began making music while messing around with GarageBand on her iPhone to bring her earliest songs to life, recreating beats from rap songs she loved and laying her own melodies over them. She's a self-taught songwriter and producer which co-wrote "Still Down" featured on H.E.R's Grammy-winning self-titled album. Her skill in songwriting and production which has only expanded since and her strong dedication gained her the award of the Abe Olman Scholarship for young songwriters from the Songwriters Hall of Fame.

In 2019, she partnered with RCA Records and Because Music to release her debut album "High Highs to Low Lows". Lolo set out on a 22-city North American headline tour a week after the album's release followed by a summer full of festival shows across the US, Canada, Europe as well as Asia. Lolo Zoua誰 has sold out headline shows across 14 different countries and appeared in global campaigns. Her debut album has gained over 100 million streams and her sophomore album is due to release October 14, 2022. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lolo+Zoua%C3%AF">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.