There are multiple artists with this name
1. A hard rock band from Hollywood, California
2. A Punk 77 band from London
3. An R&B artist from Brooklyn, New York
4. An R&B artist from Los Angeles, California
5. A pop singer from Chicago, Illinois

1. London is a glam metal/hard rock band, based in Hollywood, California. The band is perhaps most notable for featuring members that would go on to play in more famous bands such as Mötley Crüe, Guns N' Roses, W.A.S.P. and Cinderella.

London was formed in 1978 by Lizzie Grey and Nikki Sixx. The two met when Sixx was recruited to play bass for Sister, the band that Grey was in with Blackie Lawless. This line-up did not last long and soon Grey and Sixx left to form London. The two recruited a local drummer named Dane Rage.
London was briefly joined by Michael White as the vocalist, who bore a resemblance, both in voice and image, to Robert Plant. After disagreements with the band, White left to focus on his own band, The White.

2. London were a four piece punk band formed in London in 1976 and were best known for their wild stage act. The original line-up was Riff Regan (Vocals), Steve Voice (Bass), Jon Moss (Drums) and Dave Wight (Guitar). They were managed by Simon Napier-Bell and recorded two singles, a 4 track EP and an album for MCA Records in 1977. Most of their songs were written by Riff Regan (including the first two singles Everyone's a Winner and Summer of Love) or by Riff Regan and Steve Voice. All their records were produced by Napier-Bell at the IBC Studios in London.

They toured extensively throughout 1977, first supporting The Stranglers and then as headliners in their own right. Their third release, the single Animal Games, was featured on the notorious Sex Pistols edition of the British TV show So It Goes.

Their final gig was at the Marquee Club in Wardour Street on the 8th December 1977. The band broke up shortly afterwards. On leaving, Moss joined The Damned and then formed Culture Club with Boy George. Riff Regan released solo records before reverting to his real name of Miles Tredinnick and becoming a comedy writer; in 2005/6 he was the lead singer with the London based band Magic Bus.

3. London is also a Female R&B artist from Brooklyn, New York. 

4. London is an R&B artist from Los Angeles, active since 1998, and the founder of the record label Blisstunes Recording Corp.

5. London is a pop singer from Chicago, Illinois. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/London">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.