There's something to be said for having conviction and dedication for your art in a business that is so watered down that it has become a shallow shell of it's former self. LoNero is one of those rare bands that strays away from trends and the beaten path. They are four musicians that got together to create a new genre of instrumental rock. Guitarist Bill Lonero, drummer Steve Spicer, bassist Mike McKaigg and guitarist William Baglivio created Guitarcore, a genre all their own. So infectious that even those that don't listen to rock find themselves headbanging and foot tapping to their unique brand of Instrumental Guitarcore.

LoNero's debut cd "Relentless" (released 2007 with a month long promotion from Apple Computers) is 14 tracks of punishing rhythms, beautiful acoustic and infectious melodies. Built on the principal that the song should always come first, "Relentless" proves that you can still be instrumental and gain a wide and varied fan base without having to follow what others have already done.

Unlike most instrumental artists LoNero is a band in the truest sense of the word. Everyone contributes to the unique sound that is LoNero. But LoNero is not just a band that records in the studio album after album. They are a dynamic group that performs live every chance they get.

Currently, the band is writing and rehearsing their much anticipated new album and will head into the studio with Grammy award winning producer Michael Rosen and new band members Marco Bicca (drums) and Brandon Hayes (rhythm guitar). Once complete the band plans to tour and with endorsements/sponsorships from products such as Peavey, EMG, Hot Picks, Seymour Duncan, Dunlop, and Rebel Straps, says Bill Lonero. "I've had the privilege of playing or recording with the likes of Cliff Williams (AC/DC), Simon Kirke (Bad Company), Stu Hamm (Joe Satriani), Gigi Gonaway (Mariah Carey), Mike Mangini (Extreme and Steve Vai) and Polo Jones (Zucchero and Whitney Houston) so I understand what hard work is and am prepared to do what it takes to build our fan base. We love playing live because we can connect with our fans." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/LoNero">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.