There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Lone Wolf is the alter ego of multi-instrumentalist Paul Marshall.  Lone Wolf's songs are often very dark in their themes and very murder ballad-esque.  Signed to Bella Union his début album called 'The Devil And I' was released on May 17th 2010.  Marshall has been making waves with the music video for the first single 'Keep Your Eyes On The Road' as it is a tribute/homage to Peter Gabriel's classic 'Sledgehammer'. Peter Gabriel has seen and approved the video, as have the team at Aardman animation who worked on the original.
Lone wolf is currently on tour throughout the UK with Wild Beasts.

2)Lone Wolf was a British band active in the early 1980s, the years of the New Wave Of British Heavy Metal (NWOBHM). They released 2 singles and featured among their ranks Brian Ross (of Blitzkrieg)

3) LONE WOLF was founded in September of 2006 by Bo Thomson (Snake Eyes, ex-Donnybrook) and Adam Riser (ex-Betrayed). After a handful of songs were written, they recruited Nick Trujillo (Snake Eyes, ex-Donnybrook), Mark Choiniere (Throwdown), and Martin Stewart (Terror, Donnybrook).
In June of 2007, they headed into For The Record Studios with Garrett Carroll to track 4 songs for their debut release. After about 4 days of tracking and a 3-month break to tour with their respective other bands, Nick Jett (Terror, Piece By Piece) lent his talents by mixing the songs they had recorded. Finally, the songs were passed off to Paul Minor (New Found Glory, Atreyu, Thrice, Death By Stereo, Throwdown) to master and complete the music process.
LONE WOLF's debut EP entitled "Hallucinogenic Fate" is completed and will be released on Words Of War Records. Stay tuned for a release date!


4) LONE WOLF is a psychedelic doom-folk experiment currently based out of Brooklyn, NY. The first record is available through Healing Light industries.

5) Lone Wolf is also a dubstep producer.
In 2011 he released the archive

6) LONE WOLF (stylized with all caps) is a pop punk band from Rotterdam, Netherlands. As of 2021 they have released two full length albums, a split with the Parasites and various other releases. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lone+Wolf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.