Longed for Fusion combine punchy guitar riffs and pounding drums with melodic keyboard sounds. An alternative program, which finds himself well in singing and in combination of different tones female vocals and strong men Symbiöse to voice a "female-fronted gothic-power metal" is received.

The band Neubrandenburger "Longed for Fusion" was founded in October 2005. All musicians have known each other for years, only played previously in other formations. After the first rehearsal was quickly realized that this is the band to which all musicians waited for ages.

Their music features a mix of hard, punchy guitar (a la Rammstein, Black Label Society, etc.) and melodic keyboard sounds (a la Nighwish, Type O Negative, etc.). Seasoned with a mix of soulful female vocals and strong male voice. After just one year, the band recorded their 2007 debut album "Salvation" on the LSD studios Lübeck.

In the past there have been several appearances at events and festivals. A special highlight for "Longed for Fusion" was the performance as support of "Angel Fire" (the only official Rammstein cover band) in December 2007 and 2009 in Schwerin. In August 2008 came "Longed for Fusion" back in the recording studio to the said "We'll never decay" EP as a leader of the 2012 planned second Albums take. Mastering the concept published on 11/04/2009 EP took on none other than James Murphy, former guitarist of Testament, Death, Obituary, currently works as a producer in Florida.

Since early May 2009, both the debut album "Salvation" and the EP "We'll never decay" offered on many relevant known download portals for purchase. In August 2009, the band produced two singles on the second album. Again in collaboration with producer Lasse Lammert recorded "My Own World" and "In Memories". These two songs are available including on the MySpace page of the band to listen to. In early January 2010 the band shot, under the direction of a very talentiertren student from Berlin, their first music video for the song "My Own World" in a movie villa in Potsdam.

In September 2010, the band gave a great farewell concert for the longtime bassist Jan who had to withdraw for personal reasons from active life belt. At the same time, the new man of the low tones "Max Power" was introduced. In May 2011, decided Longed for Fusion and longtime drummer Christian to go their separate ways in the future. A new man the drumsticks but has found back in June and it has been the intense hoop with Stefan on songs. All songs will be developed jointly by the whole band and arranged. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Longed+for+Fusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.