In May 2004, Long Time Dead released their first album titled “Universal Cry For Help” on the Psychophonic Records label which in turn was distributed all over Europe via HMV, Virgin, Amazon, MVC, and many other major and independent record stores . 

The record was received with huge acclamation in the UK national press including Metal Hammer, Rocksound, Terrorizer and countless online rock and metal journalists over Europe. 

The success of the debut album attracted Scuzz TV to release the single “Half Cocked Smile” as LTD’s first national video release. The video was aired for over 6 months and led to LTD adding tours across the UK and Europe and allowing the band to spread their awesome and incredibly powerful Heavy Metal to an audience th at have been wondering where old school boot in the face metal has been hiding. 

LTD has just recently finished recording their latest E.P that is set for release in August 2009. This is the first release since the 2004 album and the progression from the first release is instantly noticeable. Heavier, faster, groovier beats and riffs explode in your face with a sonic production that will leave you begging for more. 

“The time it took to get another CD out has been due to us being complete perfectionists and really zoning in on where we wanted our music to take us, it seems that if you don’t get a new product out within a year of your previous one, you are forgot about, we are here to prove all those critics wrong”. 

This E.P is set to be a taster of what the band has to offer for their 2nd album, which is to be recorded in summer 2010. 

EVERYONE GET READY FOR AN EVEN BIGGER LONG TIME DEAD. 


KEEP YOUR EARS TO THE GROUND FOR MORE NEWS ON THE RE BIRTH OF BRITISH HEAVY METAL



SOMEONE has been listening to rather a lot of vintage Metallica, if this powerful debut is anything to go by; riffs piled on top of riffs, rapid fire solos widdle past in a furious flurry of fingers and it all sounds extremely professional. All of which isn't surprising when you consider that this lot from Stoke On Trent have been spanking their planks for around seven years, touring, writing and chucking out the odd demo and EP along the way. The cool thing about LTD, however, is just how gloriously, shamelessly old school they are and although its easy to spot the influences Megadeth, Slayer, Iron Maiden and a good helping of Diamond Head its pulled off with great panache and freshness. Obviously, this lot write decent songs but sonically it's boosted no end by some experienced production work courtesy of Paul Siddens and Simon Reeve; Siddens has worked with Napalm Death, Crowbar and Charger. Go On; get some British metal up yer! (7/10)
Essi Berelian Metal Hammer 

The quartet's debut full-length is brimming with crunching riffs, meaty grooves and oodles of wah-drenched solos, all discharged with lashings of energy 
Terrorizer Magazine 

Proper thrash metal is what we get forced to swallow by UK's Long Time Dead. The songs contain power, groove, variety and a good share of power of persuasion. They definitely got the chemistry to listen to them again and again. As if they invented the repeat button especially for them. This is one of England's hidden treasures of thrash, or metal in general. 
Musketeer of Death Long Time Dead European promoter .

Thrash lives! Oh yes. And Long Time Dead are the living, breathing proof of this. Universal Cry For Help' is precision thrash very much in the vein of Megadeth. Other bands that appear to inform LTD must surely include Metallica, Judas Priest, Pantera, and Slayer. Stand out tracks? I dunno, becasue LTD are so fucking consistent on this cd its hard to pick one. 
The Pit Of Doom, www.learnedrobb.tk 

With a similar sound to Metallica Long Time Dead are on the right track to bringing British thrash metal to the front of the pack and at times sounding so similar to Metallica that if this album was by Metallica it would have sold millions by now. You could even go as far as saying this is an album that Metallica should have released instead of St. Anger bringing in awesome guitar solos that drive through out the album. For a debut album Long Time Dead have it spot on and should bring them the attention they deserve and I can honestly see them go very far and it wont be long before you see them in bigger venues. 
Rock Beast, www.rockbeast.com 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Long+Time+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.