Looper are a Scottish indie-pop band, fronted by Stuart David, former Belle and Sebastian bassist.

The band formed in 1998 for a show at the Glasgow School of Art, and released their first single "Impossible Things" on the Subpop label a few months later.

Originally comprising of Stuart and his wife Karn (who was mainly responsible for visual elements in the live shows, such as videos projections, super 8 films, kenetic sculptures and photographic projections), they soon became a fully fledged band, adding Ronnie Black (guitarist) and Scott Twynholm (keyboards) to their line up.

Their first full length album "Up a Tree" (1999) was realeased on Subpop in the US and Jeepster in the rest of the world, and was followed by "The Geometrid" in 2000, on the same labels. After touring the US for three months with The Flaming Lips in 2000 they signed to Mute Records for five albums. They recorded and released one, "The Snare", and then walked away from Mute; shocked by the conservative approach of the once cutting-edge label, which sold itself to EMI during Looper's tenure.

Since then, Looper have been releasing their music free to the public at their Looperama website, funding this experiment by licencing the use of their songs in high-profile Hollywood films and Ad campaigns, including the Tom Cruise film "Vanilla Sky", and the current Xerox campaign.

Other films their songs have appeared in include, "The Edukators", "The Girl Next Door", "Out Cold", and "Dog Park".

Their most famous song is probably "Mondo '77", this song featuring in the film "Vanilla Sky" along with the track "My Robot". Both of these tracks were taken from Looper's second album "The Geometrid", and also appeared on the soundtrack to "Vanilla Sky". "Mondo '77" also appears on the American Dad episode All About Steve.

Looper is also the name of a free improv trio consisting of Martin Küchen, Ingar Zach and Nikos Veliotis.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Looper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.