Like the phrase coined by Mr. Aleister Crowley (from whom they take their name), LORDE OF ALL DESIRES encompasses all styles of metal into a sound that is elegant and aggressive all in one. After the conception of the band in the winter months of 1996, LORDE OF ALL DESIRES have continuously evolved, beginning from straight, melodic, mid-paced Black Metal to the extremely hybrid style of their own today.

    With the first complete line-up of Tony Williams (Caine-guitars, vocals), Shawn Grey (LeRue Delashay-guitars, vocals), Chris McPadden (Gates-bass guitars, vocals), Ryan Malmstorm (Aarmand-Keyboards), and David Schuppert (Asmodechi-drums/percussion), the band wrote and recorded Crowned in Blasphemy (1998), their first release which also doubled as their demo (complete with pseudonyms, of course), and put it out on their own label (Theatrikil Productions). That following summer the band debuted at Milwaukee Metalfest--making huge waves with their performance--in conjunction with their release.

    Not wasting any time, LORDE OF ALL DESIRES quickly wrote The Scent of Malevolence (1999-Root of all Evil Records), a much more diverse and versatile Black Metal opus, including melodic vocals and acoustic guitars. Prior to the release, the band parted ways with Shawn Grey, due to creative differences, as well as Chris McPadden, who left to pursue his own career. Tom Heikes, of Pentagoria fame, stepped in and permanently filled the position, adding a much more colorful approach to the music.

    Still, the band's sound is evolving, combining elements from Black, Death, Groove, Thrash, and Progressive metal. After two more festivals (New Jersey '99 and Milwaukee '99), and many shows in their hometown Minneapolis, Minnesota, the four-piece have quite a following which still continues to grow rapidly, winning over fans of all genres of metal.

    With a very inspiring yet unique sound, LORDE OF ALL DESIRES continues to craft quality music through strong songwriting and consistent innovation, which will be sure to win over any fan of metal... 

    14, August 2001: Lorde of All Desires is on hiatus. They will still be releasing their demo.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lorde+of+All+Desires">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.