Lord Impaler is a Hellenic melodic black metal act. Unlike most Greek black metal bands, their musical direction has a strong scandinavic flavor. Unlike the majority of contemporary metal bands that succumbed to the triumph of 'fragmentaire', they present a kind of black metal that is rarely met anymore, pure to the tradition and the origin, presented in a modern way and worked with stellar technics.

Formed in late 1998 in Kastoria, Greece, proceeded to record and release their first demo "The Lord Impaler" in 1999, followed by "Twilight Wander" in 2001. They also gave 2 live shows in 1999 and 2000. Then the band went into hiatus. Risen from the dead in 2005, they discarded most of the old stuff and went on to release "Promo 2005". In 2008 they participated in a 4-way split released on 10" vinyl format under the title "The Ascending Novelty". In 2009 they released another demo under the very original title "Demo 2009", showcasing music of the forthcoming debut album.

In 2010 they finished the recordings of their first full-length album "Admire the Cosmos Black" which was under constant development since 2005. The album contains 10 tracks spanning over 1 hour in duration and was released in 2011 (self financed). It was mixed and mastered at Molla Lydstudio by Knut M. Valle. Drums were performed by the legendary Hellhammer (Mayhem). It has received very good comments and got "Pick of the Month" by the greek Metal Hammer mag (September 2011, Hellenic Assault).

Current lineup consists of Tragon and Lord Nebulah.

The band currently works on new matterial for the second album.

For more details you can visit the official website ( http://www.lordimpaler.com/ ) To listen to the whole album visit their bandcamp page ( http://lordimpaler.bandcamp.com/ ) You can also follow them on Facebook ( http://www.facebook.com/Lordimpalerband ) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lord+Impaler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.