Lord Finesse is a Hip Hop artist and producer, hailing from The Bronx, New York. In 1989, Finesse, and his former partner DJ Mike Smooth, signed to Wild Pitch Records, home to other popular Hip Hop artists like Gang Starr, Main Source, Chill Rob G, Percee P, and O.C.. In 1990, the duo released their debut album Funky Technician. He was hailed for his strong lyrical ability and clever punchline delivery. The album featured production from future star beat-makers DJ Premier, Diamond D and Showbiz. Finesse became the leader of the popular New York underground crew D.I.T.C., an acronym for 'Diggin In The Crates'. Future members included Showbiz & A.G., Diamond D, Fat Joe, O.C., Buckwild and the late Big L. The crew is responsible for releasing some of the most heralded underground hip-hop albums of the 90's, including Show & AG's Runaway Slave, O.C.'s Word...Life and Big L's Lifestylez Ov Da Poor & Dangerous.

Finesse returned as a solo artist in late 1991 with his sophomore effort, Return Of The Funky Man. The album featured guest appearances from Percee P and AG. The albums title track peaked at #13 on the Hot Rap Singles chart. In 1992, Finesse discovered a young rapper freestyling in the back of a local record store, the young kid went by the name of Big L. He enlisted the young rapper to make an appearance on the remix to his song "Yes You May". In 1994, Finesse make a production appearance on The Notorious B.I.G.'s classic debut Ready to Die, on the track "Suicidal Thoughts". In 1995, he produced a portion of Big L's debut album Lifestylez Ov Da Poor & Dangerous, including the hit single "M.V.P.". He finally returned as an artist in 1996 with the acclaimed album The Awakening. Finesse produced the entire album himself, and enlisted a large number of guests, including O.C., KRS-One, MC Lyte, Akinyele, Showbiz and A.G., Diamond D, and Kid Capri. The underground hit "Actual Facts", featuring Sadat X, Grand Puba and Large Professor, was included as a hidden track on the album.

Finesse hasn't released a studio album since this effort, but has continued his production work. In 1997, he produced the title track to O.C.'s acclaimed effort Jewelz. Finesse released a mixtape called Diggin' On Blue in 1999. Later in the year, he produced the track "The Message" on Dr. Dre's seminal 2001. Finesse is currently working on a Funky Technician remix project, as well as a new D.I.T.C. album. And, with the help of DJ Premier, is working on a posthumous Big L album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lord+Finesse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.