There are many artists with the name Lore:

1. A female trip-hop / darkwave artist. 
2. A singer-songwriter from Brazil.
3. A mistagged artist Lore & Macu.
4. A progressive metal band from US.
5. A 4 piece indie-folk group from Ireland.
6. An electronic / ambient duo.
7. A dungeon synth project.

1. LORE is a female trip-hop / darkwave artist from Phoenix, Arizona who manipulates electronic textures and encompasses spirituality and love for music with her vocals.
"My songs express the deepest reflections of my soul."  

Her debut album is My Soul Speaks, which is a collection of sensual, yet powerful vocal performances coincide with lush production and advance sound design. The genre can be defined as dark electronic pop with crossover potential to rock, trip-hop, ambient, industrial, electro and darkwave.

Trip-Hop put her on the map with the song My Soul Speaks. Later, she was featured with London After Midnght performing Hebrew vocals on Blessing. Sean Brennan then particilated on LORE's Haunting.

The album's lyrics reflect lessons in love, passion for music and spiritual revelation. From the guitar heavy Love Has Gone to the electropop song Flow. Angel takes the listener on a haunting journey, Why Do I gives the feeling of a 1940's smoky, avant-garde jazz lounge while Sink is a burlesque dancers dream and Release is an ambient landscape.

Her vocals can be heard on Billy Idol's Buried Alive included on the Heavy Metal 2000 soundtrack album.  

Links:
Myspace
Vampirefreaks Website
Lore online community

2. A singer-songwriter from Brazil. He has released four singles (all in 2019): Mundo Particular, Mais Uma Canção de Amor, Sombras de Ilusão and Completamente Nuvem.

3. A mistagged single Lore, Lore, Macu, Macu. Please change your artist tags to Lore & Macu for this single.

4. A progressive metal band from US. They have released two albums, The Exponential Truth (2005) and Glass Winged Angel (2006).
They were re-released as Metal Vol. 4: Lore-The Exponential Truth (2012) and Metal Vol. 2: Lore-Glass Winged Angel (2013).

5. A 4 piece indie-folk group from Londonderry, Ireland. 
Current line-up is: Carolann Carlile (vocals), Raymond O'Kane (piano), Luke McCloskey (guitar), Rebecca Hall (violin, fiddle). 

Discography:
- Lore EP (EP, 2014)
- Lore (Album, 2015)
- Teenage Kicks (Single, 2016)
- Believe (EP, 2016)
- Never Got Over You (Single, 2019)
- That Thing I Should've Done (Single, 2019)
- More Than This (Single, 2019)

Links:
Official Website
Facebook
Bandcamp

6. An electronic / ambient duo that sounds like synth heavy bands of 1970s Germany, especially the electronic side of krautrock such as Tangerine Dream, Popol Vuh and Klaus Schulze.
The members were earlier in the heavy psyche band First Process Church Of Mars.

7. "Dungeon synth, Electronic, Medieval" https://lorelandofrenaissanceearth.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.