There are nine artists under the same name, Lorelei. They are :

1. Lorelei - American Band
2. Lorelei - Russian Gothic-Doom-Death metal band
3. Lorelei - Japanese Singer
4. Lorelei - Indonesian shoegaze band
5. Lorelei - Scottish Death Metal band
6. Lorelei - Basque Pop-Folk band
7. Lorelei - Korean Group
8. :LOR3L3I: - Dark Electronic solo project of Heike Langhans (Draconian, SE) 
9. Lorelei - Deathcore band from Raleigh, NC 
10. Lorelei - Australian Dream-Pop duo

Here the description :

1) Lorelei began in 1990 as a 5-piece in Washington, DC in the heyday of the city's indie scene, but quickly stripped down to 3 members in 1992 after one single. Lorelei released several recordings on Slumberland Records, including the 1994 LP, "Everyone Must Touch the Stove", plus a few things for other labels. Over the years, Lorelei often played live with Slumberland labelmates - the Ropers, Small Factory, Whorl, Velocity Girl, Honeybunch, Jane Pow, the Swirlies, and the Lily's - and with the Wedding Present, Slowdive, Bailter Space, Unrest, Laika, Boyracer, and Labradford. 

Following the release of "Everyone Must Touch the Stove" and after playing together for almost 6 years, Lorelei members decided to move to different coasts and disband in 1996. From there, Lorelei members went off to persue other projects including LU, Chessie, Camping, and RDK. Following their hiatus as a band, Lorelei began working together again in 2003, culminating in Lorelei's first release in eight years, the "Informed By The Future" 12" on Matt's Textilesounds (www.textilesounds.com imprint. Now, in 2006, Lorelei's members have found themselves back in Washington, DC and have been playing together again. Lorelei returned for a show on October 25th, 2006 in DC and will start performing regularly in 2007.

Lorelei's line-up includes Matthew Dingee, who also records as Grappa and is a member of LU (U.S.), Stephen Gardner, founder of Chessie and contributor to Camping, and Davis White, one half of RDK.

2) Russian metal band Lorelei formed in 2003. Current line-up:

Kseniia Mikhaĭlova- vocals
Alekseĭ Ignatovich - guitar
Andreĭ Osokin - guitar
Marina Ignatovich - keyboard
Aleksandr Grishchenko - bass

http://www.loreleiband.com

3) Japanese singer Lorelei, also known as ローレライ.  Released only one album, "Pastrale."

4) There's also indonesian called Lorelei, a "One Man Project". Check the profile @ myspace.com/dramaticday.

5) There's also a Scottish, Ayrshire-based death metal band called Lorelei.

6) A Basque Pop-Folk band

7) Korean group. Tag 로렐라이

8) Lorelei is a Symphonic Deathcore band from Raleigh, NC, with influences in Black Metal. They are signed to Subliminal Groove Records and already have three singles out. Their debut album 'Lore Of Lies' is set to release at the end of January 2014. 

10) Lorelei is the project of Claudia Schmidt and Arlen McCarthy. Coming from two distinct worlds, Lorelei exists somewhere in the middle, a swirling current of dark dream-pop. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lorelei">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.