Another Venice, CA are crossover thrash artist from 1983-85. Los Cycos featured an alternating line-up over the years and formed in 1984. It was the brainchild of Mike Muir  during the first year of Suicidal Tendencies four year recording hiatus. Muir was also about to try his hand at producing as well as starting his own label Suicidal Records. Los Cycos was originally Mike Muir (Vocals), Bob Heathcote (bass), Anthony"Bob"Gallo (Guitars) and Amery Smith (drums). After a few rehearsals the line up included; Grant Estes on lead guitar, Gallo (rhythm), and original choices Bob Heathcote and Amery Smith were replaced by Louiche Mayorga (bass) and Sal Troy of No Mercy (drums). Rehearsals continued in preparation for their debut recording on Muirs newly formed Suicidal Records. With the final line up established and two songs "It's Not Easy" and "A Little Each Day," Los Cycos were now ready. "Welcome to Venice" was the first record to be released on Suicidal Records, the album also included local Venice bands Suicidal Tendencies, Beowülf, No Mercy and Excel. "Welcome to Venice" is a (Split) album and was only released on vinyl and cassette, never to be digitized for compact disc due to the fact that the original masters were lost in a fire. When it came time to record the tracks for WTV, Troy had his hands full recording drums for No Mercy and Los Cycos, as did Muir whose vocals can be heard on the Suicidal Tendencies cut "Look Up... (The Boys are Back)" written by Muir and former Suicidal Tendencies guitarist Jon Nelson and the Los Cycos track "It's Not Easy." In 1989 Suicidal Tendencies re-recorded "It's Not Easy" for their 1989 release "Controlled By Hatred/Feel Like Shit... DejaVu" album. The other Los Cycos title "A Little Each Day" never made it to vinyl and only a demo of the song exists. Mike Muir wrote the words, music and produced both Los Cycos tracks as well as the entire record."It's not Easy" was written by SUICIDAL TENDENCIES frontman Mike Muir, who also laid down the vocals on the track. LOS CYCOS did one demo that remains hidden away. However, two of those songs will finally be recorded and released on the "Return to Venice" project. 
"Welcome to Venice" is considered to be a collectors item and is one of the most sought after recordings from that Venice "skate punk" era. Though it was almost thirty years ago, Los Cycos and Suicidal still remain a heavily influential part of the American punk and skate culture, for music and style. Los Cycos disbanded in 1985. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Los+Cycos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.