Los Natas (credited as Natas on early releases) was the premier Argentinian stoner rock group.
Formed in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Los Natas put the second largest South American nation on the world's stoner rock map almost single-handedly. Coming together in 1993, guitarist/vocalist Sergio Chotsourian, bassist Miguel Fernandez and drummer Walter Broide displayed a distinct Kyuss influence on their 1996 debut Delmar, which was sung almost exclusively in Spanish, and later was chosen by stonerrock.com as one of the 10 best records of Stoner Rock in history. But subsequent releases such as 1999's  Ciudad de Brahman and 2002's Corsario Negro (featuring new bassist Gonzalo Villagra) quickly expanded upon this blueprint, adding sonic elements culled from space rock, psychedelia and even jazz, meshing and elevating them all to heights arguably never scaled south of the Equator.
Not content to sit on their laurels, the group's 2003's Toba-Trance delved into Indian music over the course of three songs spread over sixty-minutes. One year later they continued evolving in this direction with Toba Trance II. Year 2005 saw them expanding their droning, dilated acid-rock and prog-rock sound even further with the München Sessions album.
However, they then returned to stoner rock for the El hombre montaña album (released in 2006), El universo perdido de Los Natas, Volumen I/II  compilation album (2007), and their final studio album of new material Nuevo Orden De La Libertad (2009). Their swan song release was Rutation (2011) — a compilation album of old Natas material that was put to tape on a mobile unit in Buenos Aires in 1997 and originally released only in Argentina on cassette in 1998.
In 2012 Los Natas announced through their Facebook page and Argentinian edition of Rolling Stone magazine that the band was being put on indefinite hiatus, naming family matters, mental and physical health of its members as reasons to split their ways.
Members of the band remained active, though. Sergio Chotsourian continued with his solo project Ararat, and Walter Broide rejoined (as he recorded the drums for theirs first album) the instrumental psychedelic/progressive rock band Poseidotica. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Los+Natas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.