Multiple artists with the same name:

1. Los or "boogie" is from the Linwood Detroit area. He and his brother "WB Nutty"  both have solo albums done but they also have done 3 albums together, PANAGNL4E Volumes 1-3. Raw music. 

2. Los (로스), born Moon Won-jun (문원준) is a Korean-American rapper who debuted under Kiwi Media Group in 2017.

3.Los is from Liberty Heights and Garrison in Baltimore, Maryland, a city known for hustlers who get it in the streets. The city has been well publicized on shows like "The Wire" and "The Corner". Now Baltimore has another conduit to catapult the city to national visibility. LOS has been on his grind since 1999 and showed his hunger in the battles he dominated. He solidified himself in the streets and then signed with Da Bloc in 2001 which fueled his momentum and drastic increase in star power. Da Bloc proved to be the label that could propel LOS to the heights of star status. However, due to a tumultuous time, LOS had to put things on hold while Da Bloc took a hiatus to restructure the company. During that time, the company did not release music or host any events. However, in '07-'08, with back to back mix cd releases, historic events, and endless performances, LOS and Da Bloc made more of an impact on the music industry than prior years!

LOS released several mix cds in '07-'08, but he has the streets on fire with his "G5" series! He has released several versions of the mix cd i.e. G5 "Certified", G5 "Special Edition" and G5.2. These volumes have far exceeded sales of mix cd releases in Baltimore, including past releases from Da Bloc records. LOS has such a strong following, he has networked with every major promoter in Baltimore with them incorporating "G5" into the marketing scheme of their concerts and other events. Baltimore native Mario & Los made a remix to "Crying out for me" & "Music for Love" with both featuring on the "G5" series. The response was so overwhelming it prompted Mario to have LOS perform on several tour dates with him. LOS was also featured on the "Gangsta Grillz" tour with Young Jeezy, D.J. Drama, UGK, B.G. and others. If he is not performing and releasing mix cds, LOS has been building his catalog writing for well-known artists in the music industry. Fans have been swarming with requests for the song he pinned on a Cheri Dennis album entitled "Showdown". His performances have been in high demand on YouTube and he has hundreds of thousands of viewers (collectively) logging on to watch the rise of a superstar!

4.The british band Los from the south east. Combining grungy punk soul with raw and gutsy blues with a bit of experimental thrown in. They released their first single on 7" vinyl in february 2008 and then toured and released their latest single in november 2008. With more tours booked for 2009 and reviews like "without a doubt, my favorite unsigned band of the year.they manage to combine tempered grunge and intimate
blues with a natural, skillful beauty that is both heart
wrenching and inspiring" and "Everyone’s attention is held for a set that moves from the riotous to soulful and back again. It’s beautiful, the honeyed
razor blade vocals, the swiping guitar, the rich toned drums;
just beautiful" from British music press.  They have since renamed themselves That Mouth. Just before the release of their first full length album, the band announced their break up on 25 September 2011.

5.  UK based drone/doom band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Los">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.