Chris Ramirez - guitar
Kory Koch - guitar
Michael Hall - vocals
Joshua Urista - bass
David Hall – drums 

Losa is a band willing to take its time in order to explore the vast reaches of their musical capabilities in hopes of creating something more. A sound defined by powerful, aggressive guitars and driving, articulated drum work creates a dynamic setting for emotionally driven lyrical work, touching on life-altering situations such as child abuse, death, and love lost.

Originally from Nacogdoches, TX, Losa moved to the Dallas/Fort Worth area in the summer of 2002 to gain more exposure through the well-established local music scene. And expose themselves they did. Playing any and all shows that came their way the band quickly created a buzz. However, a few line-up changes caused the band to go on hiatus for a bit. They have since returned to the scene stronger and more dedicated than ever. Returning to the stage in 2003 to showcase their new line up, Losa has implemented a rigorous playing schedule and have once again caused quite a commotion.

The band entered Dub 1 Sound Recording Studio in October 2003 to record a live 4-song demo. In an effort to self-promote, the live demo has been given away for free to any and all people interested. The live demo caught the attention of Metal Blade Records and the band was officially signed in May 2004. 

Losa is currently writing new music and lyrics for the upcoming album that will push the boundaries of their musical talents. “We are looking at our music in a different light altogether now. The general theme surrounding the album is that of life, an awakening if you will,” says vocalist Michael Hall of the new material. The next step is to enter the studio to capture the raw aggression that the band is now known for. Starting in mid July they will head into Last Beat Recording Studio in Dallas, TX to begin recording their first full length that will debut on Metal Blade Records in the winter of 2005. The album will be self-produced by the band, although they will be lining up other individuals to assist them with other aspects of the album like engineering, mixing, and mastering. The new material is still very much in the vein of the bands previous work; however, they are focusing more on technicality and song structure as a whole. “What we want is to focus on taking the passion from our live shows and convey it on the new album…we continue to grow, both as musicians and as a band.” states guitarist Chris Ramirez.

Losa is a band that strives for depth and ingenuity in everything they do. Their music is an outlet, a bridge to sanity in a world of turmoil and doubt.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Losa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.