Loss of Control is a Death-grind band from the gutter and bowels of central Quezon City wasteland, in Manila, Philippines. Formed in 1995, by it's original members, of which the founding member, Orlando "Andoni" Sionosa, tragically passed away in a car accident that lead the original members to fall out, and pursue their own interests in music or musicality,  all of which are no longer in the group today. Originally L.O.C.'s material was more of a metalized type of hardcore, with metal leaning brought about the inclusion of Sam Kiyoumarsi to the line-up in 1999. The older sound reflects the past members' earlier and seemingly juvenile approach to heavy music and aggression, eventually, through changes and constant influences in mu-sick, their sound mutated into what it should be and where it should be headed for. Sam, who is 2nd generation to the band, along with Allan Diaz, Gani Simpliciano and new drummer Ryan A. Quiray (also from local B.D.M. royalties PUS VOMIT) continue the band to this day, with their own brand of relentless mayhem, calculated brutality and sheer aggression, laced with alcohol and THC goodness.

They have released an E.P., a DVD multimedia pack, and one studio album so far, but, sadly, after the release of their first effort in 2007, internal and personal differences took it's hold on the group as they were confronted with tremendous struggles, drug problems, attitude problems, common survival issues which lead to a major fall out in the line-up with the ejection of drummer Gil Santos as a sort of climax that crippled the band, forcing it into an almost 3 year hiatus.   

In 2010, the band welcomed local  Pus Vomit's drummer Ryan A. Quiray into their ranks to open for Dying Fetus on their southeast asian tour, now the band has seen new light, found better ground and musical chemistry  and is currently working on new material for an album to be released by the end of 201, as well as a song remake of a Tame the Tikbalang(Manila's legendary hardcore pioneers) track  titled "Brethren",on their upcoming tribute album due out mid this year. Loss of Control is locally known to most as "L.O.C." and maintain their D.I.Y. / underground ideology intact as one of the longest running bands and well kept secret in "Pinoy" death metal and grind core.

 L.O.C. will always continue to purvey  brutality and aggression with social relevance, and anti-political leanings with vicious contempt for backward minded elements in establishments, bullshit music industry standards and practices, exploitation of the working class, disinformation tactics by mass media and glossy print media, false metal,  fake hype for dead trends, abusive political dynasties and the ruling class, poverty on this side of the third world, a lack of higher education, the local church and state's constant malpractices,  all in the hope of striking the true ugliness of our culture at it's very spine and to violently butcher these tyrants that cowardly hide behind the state, only to rule with intent for mass control,  practical slavery, and ultimately the destruction of free thinking and intellectual growth and all inalienable rights of  free peoples, all in all a hateful war cry and reactionary, the ultimate response that hopefully may spark higher consciousness and advancements for a better society... or at least till they run out of weed and beer or go on a meth binge and decide to kill everyone instead... true and outstandingly steadfast members of the ever-growing "Misanthropic Generation".

Members:
Allan Diaz - Vocals
Sam Kiyoumarsi - Guitars
Gani Simpliciano - Bass
Ryan A. Quiray - Drums

Releases:
When Death takes it's toll - EP, 2002
Loathe - DVD multimedia, live videos and unreleased tracks, 2004
Ricin for Lethe, The Tropics of Cancer - Studio album, 2007

Web:
Myspace.com/lossofcontroldeathmetal

add us on Facebook - Loss of Control <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Loss+Of+Control">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.