Lost Society was founded in 2010 by guitarist and vocalist Samy Elbanna in Jyväskylä, Finland.

After several line-up changes, in the summer of 2011 the band reached it’s final form with Ossi Paananen on the drums, Arttu Lesonen on the guitar and Mirko Lehtinen on the bass.

The band recorded two demos during 2011-2012 and participated in a few band competitions, while also playing small shows in youth centers both in their hometown and elsewhere in Finland.

The biggest band competition the guys took part in was the Global Battle Of Bands, and after winning the Finnish chapter they made it all the way to the 2012 world finals in London. Their Finnish finals performance of the song “Trash All Over You” was recorded on video and released in YouTube, and it is from there that the Nuclear Blast Records representative spotted the band.

After that, the ball really started rolling. The band was signed to Nuclear Blast in the summer of 2012, and recorded their first album, titled “Fast Loud Death”, in September of the same year in Sonic Pump Studios, Helsinki with producer Nino Laurenne. The album was released in March 2013, and was well received all around the world. Fueled by the positive feedback, the band set on their first, 4 gig Finnish tour supporting one of their idols, Overkill.

Come summer 2013, the band hit some of the biggest festivals in Finland e.g. Tuska Open Air, Ilosaarirock and Jalometalli. In October 2013 Lost Society was given an incredible opportunity, and the band hopped on a plane to Japan, where they performed in the enormous Loud Park festival in front of an enthusiastic Japanese crowd.

Once they returned home, the band wasted no time before heading back to Sonic Pump Studios to record their second album with their trusted producer Nino Laurenne.

Before the second album was even released, Lost Society set out on their most ambitious endeavour to date in the form of a 31-day, 31-gig European Tour with Suicidal Angels, Fueled By Fire and Exarsis. The tour got massive attention all over Europe, and fortified Lost Society’s position in the frontline of today’s Thrash Metal scene.

The album, titled “Terror Hungry”, was released in April 2014 and was received with even more enthusiasm than it’s predecessor. It displayed the growth of the band as musicians and song-writers, and introduced an overall more mature Lost Society that showed no signs of slowing down.

After releasing the album the band set out on a Finnish tour, gathering enthusiastic crowds in clubs all over the country. This was followed by a festival summer even bigger than the year before, and the band got to play for massive crowds everywhere they went. This time the festivals weren’t limited to Finland, and Lost Society got to play in grand festivals such as Summer Breeze in front of huge masses of people.
The festival summer was followed by a second European tour supporting Destruction, as well as a headlining Spanish tour.

The band has had the pleasure of touring with many of their idols, including two tours with Children Of Bodom, and continues to gain recognition as one of the most energetic live performers around today.

In 2015, the band has already made their second trip to Japan and played a number of shows in Finland, and also performed on the main stage of France’s massive HellFest festival.

They are currently recording the third Lost Society album, which will according to frontman Samy Elbanna be “awesome as f**k”. With the new album, the band will keep bringing the audience what they ask for and continue to flood the world with Braindead Thrash Metal.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lost+Society">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.