1) LOST IN TIME is a japanese indie rock band that formed in 2001 with 海北大輔 (Kaihoku Daisuke) on Vocals, bass & guitar and 大岡源一郎 (Oooka Genichirou) on Drums & vocals. 

2)Lost in Time, a Musician from Manchester in the UK

A chance encounter with an old, battered Roland Jupiter synthesiser coincided with the purchase of some overdue, upgraded recording software, a net result was that for the very first time, I found that I could connect a synth to the computer utilising MIDI, previously this had been something of a ‘black art’, it had eluded every effort to try and conquer the mystical beast, now I was hooked up… so…onward with the experimentation.

The very first tune born from the marriage was christened Jupiter, after the Synth of course, this got me thinking and after a short while, set the theme for the rest on the album. An interest in space and space exploration, from a very early age, became an inspiration to write music based on the Solar System to which we all belong. 

As a child, at school, being forced to listen to the likes of Gustav Holsts Planet Suite and Beethoven’s 5th never went down very well with my classmates or me. At that time, Classical music was something that our parents would have had us listen to, some of us were even forced to listen to the likes of Joe Loss and his band, that for us was some sort of audible torture. We, however had far better tastes in music than this, and being the rebels that we were, preferred the likes of Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin, Jimi Hendrix and the all time favourite of Lost in Time, Barclay James Harvest, it was they who first gave me the insight of a Rock band combining classical orchestral sounds with guitars, bass and drums.

The album was never meant to copy, or emulate either Gustav Holst or Barclay James Harvest, I don’t think that any of them had used much in the line of MIDI, but the album had to have an element of my rock roots included on to it, most tracks you can hear a real bass guitar, acoustic and electronic drums and my trusty PRS guitar makes more than just a guest appearance Beyond the Skies was recorded between November 2010 and May 2011, at Sandringham Studio Stalybridge, Cheshire England,

Linzi Gerdon from Record Review News writes: The album takes a new direction for Lost in Time, a huge step away from the more usual Classic Rock style that Trevor is renown for, a combination of styles, listen and you can hear elements of Pink Floyd, Amun Duul along with essence of Can as well as the many other electronic bands that have made a mark over the years, but this is undeniably the work of Trevor in his ‘Lost in Time’ guise. Music that is similar but very very different to anything else out there at the moment. In this image means everything generation, nothing comes even close to comparison. This album can be listened to whilst chilling out after a long day, or be heard on the most trendy club dance floor, a strange, unique album that is not easily categorised, all in all, very highly recommended.


As for Gustav Holst and the Planets Suite, I liked that sort of music then and still do now, but I could have never admitted it to my old school friends, I would have been skinned alive

Dedicated to the memory of Stuart John ‘Woolly’ Wolstenholme

3) Full Circle is the first album by Manchester musician, Trevor Smith, this is no ordinary album, this one nearly did not get made.

Trevor thought his musical career had ended, he had not picked up a guitar in years and it was even longer since he last played in a band, he had no intention of starting again, after all, he had only played in a few, unsuccessful covers bands, dreams of making an album had disappeared long ago.

However, he found lyrics popping into his head, and they would not go away, this was not unusual, Trevor had been a columnist with several photographic magazines and writing 2000 word articles had been a regular feature in his life.

However, these new ‘lyrics’ seemed to be different, they rhymed for a start, and once he started to take notice, the ‘lyrics’ started to flow, he realised that these lyrics needed music, so, our came the guitar, and within an hour, ‘Circles’ was wrote.

Song after song flowed after this, and after playing some to friends, it was suggested that they be recorded and a Myspace site set up. The early recordings were laid down on an old 4-track cassette machine, and two of those original efforts are included on the album (Circles original and Going Home) Trevor wanted to keep the original sound that he started with, so even though the songs have been recorded many times, these are the original (warts n all) versions.

The Myspace site proved to be very popular, Trevor was working under the name of Sunfighter, he was persuaded, by a record label, to form a band, they would then monitor his progress.

What followed is described by Trevor as 4 wasted years trying to get a band together, Sunfighter went through many personnel changes, until in February 2010, Trevor finally had enough of internal politics and squabbles, he walked away from the band, and went back to the original plan of putting out the album on his own.

By this time, he had been spotted by many people in the know, and was signed to Stuart Woolly Wolstenholme’s Publishing Company, Musica Realis, Stuart is the keys player, and founder member of Barclay James Harvest, he runs the company along with music lawyer, Sean Redmond.

As said at the beginning of this piece, the album nearly did not get finished, as well as band personnel problems, in 2008 Trevor was struck down with pneumonia, he had to take a year away from music, and came very close to calling it a day. But his loyal fans would not let him, and with their support, the album was finished and released in summer 2010 and the second album (working tiled of ‘Time Is?’ Is due for release in early 2011.

The album can be purchased through CD Baby (www.cdbaby.com/lostintime) and is available for download on Amazon, I-Tunes and all major download sites.

Trevor can be contacted through Myspace www.myspace.com/sunfightermusic he makes a point of answering all emails personally, and the latest news is that the BBC have requested several songs.

And now for the very latest news…Trevor has informed me that he intends to take the music on tour in 2011 and will be looking for suitable musicians early in the New Year after the new album is completed. Not bad for something that nearly did not happen.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lost+in+Time">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.