There are more than one artist named Lothlorien:

1) a New Zealand-based Celtic group 
2) melodic death metal band from Varberg, Sweden. 
3) Australian-based world music group

1) Lothlórien is a New Zealand-based Celtic group taking its name from a magical forest found in Tolkien's 'Lord of the Rings'. Their music is reminescent of Scotland and Ireland folk music, and shares similarities with bands like Clandestine, Dervish and Loreena McKennitt.

The three band members are Nicole Leonard(Vocals, Tin Whistles, Low Whistles, Fiddle, Mandolin, Keyboard, Bodhrán, Celtic Harp), Chris Lloyd(Vocals, Acoustic Guitar, Bouzouki, Mandola) and Tamzin Wood(Vocals, Tin Whistles, Bodhrán, Keyboard).

Their 1999 Album "Greenwood Side" is their only major release. 

2) Lothlorien was a melodic death metal band from Varberg, Sweden. The band has split-up after the release of their debut album The Primal Event, which was released in November 1998 via Black Mark Production. After splitting up, three ex-Lohtlorien members (Tobias Birgersson - guitars, Linus Wikstrom - guitars, Daniel Hannendahl - drums) founded a traditional metal band called Frequency in 2002.

3)  Lothlorien is an Australian-based world music group. Their music is almost in a genre on its own, playing both instrumental and song. Fresh with depth and expressed in a multitude of instruments capturing the journey of mood and emotion, they have been enthralling ears and eyes at festivals and events for nearly a decade.

The Lothlorien sound is unique, unlike any folk music you might have come across. Drawing on the increasingly multicultural nature of Australia, the members of the band are also unique in character, energy and presentation. They will often dress in costume, taking their listener on a bard’s journey guided by spoken word accompanied by Celtic harp as introduction to compositions.

Lothlorien survive on festival performances and sell their CDs independently. They are proud to have sold the most CDs out of 350 acts on their first appearance at Woodford, Australia’s biggest folk festival. They have been repeatedly invited back, always selling within the top 10. To back up the band’s environmental message, they are proud to donate a percentage of CD sales (so far donating over $6000) to either the Australian Bush Heritage Fund www.bushheritage.org or towards the planting of trees on festival sites visited by Lothlorien.

The band members are:
Nic Morrey – 12 String guitar/didgeridoo/lead vocal
Joe Granieri – Uilleann pipes/keys/darabuka
Mei Lai Swan – Violin/backing vocals
Fingal Capaldi – Accordion/Celtic harp/whistles
Jean Cabon – Fretless Bass
Erin Sulman – Bodhran/congas
Carl Pannuzzo – Kit drum
Corey Romero - Mandolin

Their latest album SAQI is available for purchase from their website (www.lothlorienmusic.com) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lothlorien">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.