There is more than one artist with this name:


1) Lotus is a largely instrumental Philadelphia, PA, USA, based band that melds sounds of electro, house, funk, and post-rock. They tour the United States frequently as well as Japan and are the most often scrobbled "Lotus" http://www.lotusvibes.com

2) Lotus is a Chicago based group centered on Christy Cameron Smith and Paul Infiniti.  Described as "...softly flow through downtempo rhythms and are enlightened by strong melodies arising from acoustic, electric and electronic instrumentations 
and arrangements all lead by the sensual and yet powerful voice of Christy 
Cameron Smith." http://www.lotusband.com 

3) Lotus is a Swedish band.
Line-up:
Anders Åhlund (Vocals, ex-Saigon)
Uffe Pettersson (Keyboards, also a member of Galleon)
Micke Berner (bass, been a member of RockTools)

They recorded the whole Sgt Pepper album.

4) Lotus is a four-piece band influenced by straight forward and melodic hardcore bands with a groove. With members of melodic hardcore band Accept The Change and rock band Gipsy On The Rocks. J, J, J & B.


5) Lotus is a six-member croatian rock/acoustic band. Formed by Filip Kozlica (acoustic guitar, vocals) and Bruno Milanović (bass). Other members of the band: Nikola Betica (guitars), Marko Vucelja (drums), Maja Kosanović (vocals) and Dino Zanetti (piano, keyboards). http://www.myspace.com/lotuszg

6) Lotus is a jam, progressive jazz, beat box bass band from Toronto Canada.

7) Lotus is a New Zealand vocalist based in Wellington http://www.lotusflower.co.nz/

8) Lotus is an Italian band made up by Amerigo Verardi, Claudio Chiari and Silvio Trisciuzzi. http://www.mescal.it

9) Lotus (real name David Applegate) is an electronic artist. He has released two EPs and has mixed a various artist CD called 'Lotus Chill Out Volume I'. 

10) Lotus is (was) a Dutch band, based in Amsterdam. Repertoire consisted of self-written material as well as a cover version of Built To Spill's song Car.

11) Lotus was an experimental electronic noise/punk band with yelping vocals, loops, and real instruments from Pennsylvania that recorded two albums called Lotus In, Garbage Out and Version 2.0

12) Lotus was a five piece ambient/goth/darkwave type project based in Brooklyn NY, featuring several members of underground avant-rock groups from the area and a dominatrix/visual artist named Cat on vocals. After three members left the group, Alex and Cat continued the project briefly, appearing in a film, and then disbanding short after. Only one recording (a demo tape) exists aside from the film appearance. 

13) Lotus is a creative faction of the Bossalaus Movement, a nameplate for the visual arts, musical work, etc. that is created by the organization. Bossalaus created the brands: Nobodies From Nowhere (NFN), NFN Radio, Mighty Mixtape, Bossalaus is composed by 3 factions: (F) FireFrost, (L) Lotus, (W) Wreckerz. http://www.bossala.us  http://www.nfn.am 

14) Lotus Jazz-rock band from Oslo, Norway established 1975. Their only album "Lotus" (1979) was nominated to the norwegian grammy. 

15) Lotus is a Moscow, Idaho based a capella trio that put out one album, The Dance Goes On, with Peacehouse Records.

16)Lotus is a short-lived emo band from Slavonski Brod, Croatia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lotus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.