Anne Peichert known by her stage name Louane Emera (born 26 November 1996) is a French actress and singer. She is best known for being a semifinalist in the second season of The Voice: la plus belle voix in France with Louis Bertignac as a coach. She later got a role in La Famille Bélier which won her a César Award.

In 2008, 12-year-old Louane Emera took part in L'École des stars, a French music competition broadcast on channel Direct 8.

Louane Emera is an orphan. Her rendition of "Imagine" was dedicated to her father who had died just three months prior to her appearance in The Voice. Although a celebrity, she is still at school aiming to take her baccalauréat exams in 2015.

In 2013, her first real breakout came with her taking part in The Voice: la plus belle voix's second season. She auditioned with "Un homme heureux" from William Sheller with all four coaches Florent Pagny, Jenifer, Louis Bertignac and Garou turning their chairs. She opted to be part of Team Louis Bertignac. Her "blind audition" episode was broadcast on February 16, 2013.

March 23, 2013, during the Musical Battles round, she was picked by Bertignac against her rival Diana Espir, after both interpreted "Torn" from Natalie Imbruglia. During the live rounds, she sang "Les moulins de mon cœur" from Michel Legrand and was saved by public vote. On April 27, 2013 she performed "Call Me Maybe from Carly Rae Jepsen and was saved by her mentor coach to go through. With Lennon's "Imagine" dedicated to her deceased father, she was saved yet again by public vote. But her luck ended in the semi-finals after her rendition of "Quelqu'un m'a dit" from Carla Bruni. She brought a cumulative score of 74 while the other Team Bertignac semi-finalist Loïs brought in a composite score of 76. Accordingly Louane was eliminated finishing 5th to 8th.

All semi-finalists and finalists, including Louane, took part in an after-season tour throughout France.

After her appearance in The Voice, Éric Lartigau noticed her and cast her for his movie La Famille Bélier in which she played the role of Paula, a 16 years-old teenager who is the only hearing person in a family of deaf people. The character sings anumber of Michel Sardou songs, most notably "Je vole". As a result, she won the "Most Promising Actresses" at the 40th ceremony of the Césars.

On February 5, 2015, she will serve as an opening act for Jessie J's showcase in Paris.

Her first studio solo album, Chambre 12, was released on March 2, 2015, to great success. Her single Avenir topped the French charts in March. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Louane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.