At the beginning of year 1986, Jami and Mirka were playing "hard and heavy music". They asked Pex to join to the band. 2 guitar players and drummer. Guys had time to think how they wanted guitars and drums to be played.  First gig ever, with  following line-up; Mirka (drums), Jami (guitar, vocals), Pätkä (keyboards), Pex (bass).

Place was in Viiala, there was "night for new bands". Three songs, and it was over.... Pätkä did not wan't to play anymore, so Jycä came in, with the bass guitar. More good riffs, heavy sound, good songs. JP was asked to be lead singer. He liked a lot how guitar's were arranged.

Loud Crowd got their new rehearsel house from county of Viiala. It was build up with good friends, and the band enjoyed playing there. First ever made demo-tape was recorded there with JP's 8-track. Mirka had funny set of drums; other bass drum was 20", other 22".
 
Time for the first gig with new line-up came April 3rd 1987 at Viiala. Lotsa people there, they had heard the rumours that this band is good. Everything was almost ready night before the gig. VHS-cam was used to film the gig.  Playing was good, band had practised a lot. Soundengineer Jussi created good sound for the band. Crowd was wild, there was home villages dude's playing.

Our first single "Goodheart" was released. 300 copies was made. We mixed it twice, to get balances etc better. It was recorded at JJ-Studio, Tampere.Cover was not what was planned, but shit happens.
We were working together to get all packed. Then we sent copies to radios, record companies etc.
Now day's that very first single is rare, I've heard.

7th gig was BIG!! Giants of Rock, at Hämeenlinna, 15th of August 1987. Dio was headlining. There was Helloween, Zero Nine, Gringos Loco's Catwalk and even Kirka was performing. Stage was so huge. Loud Crowd was opening act for the Giants of Rock. Sound on the stage was good, thanks to our good stage map.  There is only 2 pics left from that gig. Shame we didn't have camera with us, because after show we met Ronnie James Dio and the rest of the band. We got even ride to the railway station in Dio's tour bus.

We shooted a video at TV2 for the Rockstop. "Goodheard" was heard  and seen thru Finnish television.
It helped to get more gigs. Later we had a show for Epe Helenius of Poko Rekords.

Epe decided that we should do album. We started to record it during summer 1988 at JJ-Studio. Producer was TT Oksala. We played live, only guitar solo's and vocal's were added. And ofcourse, we had to rush with the mixing. Still, I think it's good album. We were so pumped, that the songs were really speeded up.

Poko single (PIS 246) was out now, with songs "Goodheart" and "Carry on". Album "Guardians" was relesead November 1988. We did some promoting in radio stations, and even had few gigs.

1989 was kinda slow year for Loud Crowd. Speed metal was in, and not too many places wanted to have "normal" heavy band to play.
Still, we got new agency, and did what we could. Good gig's with better gear. We had quite massive arsenal of lights and PA was OK too. "Brand new" tour bus etc.

New songs were written and practised. Set was like 50/50, older songs and the new ones. New material was not so fast and furious, more like melodic even. People seemed to like the new songs. Band was playing very well, and JP was reaching new level with the vocals. 

The deal wit the Poko was over, so Kane Records from Turku released our single "Stormwind". Again, it was recorded in JJ-Studio. We produced it ourselves, and the sound was good.

We started to make second album, but during the session, band splitted up. We did rest of the gig's as promised, and so it ended.

In 2003 we were asked to do re-union gig. Hell yeah, all the bad is behind our back.
We had only one practice night before gig. First we "tasted" the songs, and the we played them almost flawless.
OK, we are ready to ROCK! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Loud+Crowd">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.