The Chicago-area DJ duo Louis the Child, Robert Hauldren and Frederic Kennett, went to the same high school and had their own respective projects, but their paths never crossed. Hauldren manned the turntables as Haul Pass, while Kennett produced under the moniker Fatboy. After meeting on March 18, 2012 at a Madeon concert, the pair decided to join forces and start making music together, even though Kennett was wrapping up high school and Hauldren had just enrolled at the University of Southern California. They titled their debut EP Dimensions and would release a series of singles -- "It's Strange" with K.Flay, "Weekend" with Icona Pop, and "Fire" with Evalyn -- in the years that followed. In addition to opening for Madeon in 2015, they also toured with the Chainsmokers, whose own brand of pop-minded electronic music mirrored Louis the Child's radio-friendly anthems. In 2016, the duo collaborated with New Orleans rapper Pell as Pellican Child, releasing the single "Turn Me Down" from a joint EP that would arrive in 2017. That year, Louis the Child also released their Love Is Alive EP, a versatile set that featured the title track with guest vocalist Elohim, and "Phone Died" with rapper Blaise Railey. Months later, they collaborated with Love Is Alive guest vocalist Ashe for another track, "Right to It." 2018 saw the duo team up with Aussie singer/songwriter Wafia for "Better Not," and Motor City singer Quinn XCII for "The City."

In 2020 after the success of "Candy", a 30 minutes beat tape made of unreleased music published on SoundCloud, they released in August, 2020. Candy II, a new beat tape of unreleased music following the same idea of Candy, now available on all streaming services with 19 tracks. Their debut album "Here for Now" came out on the next year (2021), composed by 14 tracks including features of EARTHGANG, Foster the People, Duckwrth and many more. Gaing a peak position of 6 on US Top Dance/Electronic Albums on Billboard and more than 200 millions of plays on Here For Now (Deluxe) version

They keep gaing more attention and being even more creatives after each release, working in many projects such as Painting, Clothing brand called MACAW, Photography and Music of course. Louis The Child has released after Here for Now until now, in 2021 during their Euphoria Era after some singles with a whole new visual concept for LTC shown in So What and Keep On Moving they released Euphoria including features of Bea Miller, A R I Z O N A, Theophilus London and others. Skrillex can be found as co-producer on the track Waiting To Feel Like This. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Louis+The+Child">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.