Love Spirals Downwards was an ethereal darkwave, dream pop, atmospheric drum'n'bass and electronica recording act from California.

Love Spirals Downwards was begun by multi-instrumentalist Ryan Lum and then-girlfriend Suzanne Perry. In 1991, Lum and Perry recorded a demo, which led to a contract with Projekt Records. Over its 8-year history, the band released four full-length albums, a career retrospective, and a CD single, selling (by their own account) in excess of 40,000 CDs. They were also included on over two dozen various artist compilations, including the Heavenly Voices series released by the German label Hyperium.

Perry's sister Kristen collaborated with Lum on two tracks for the 1998 album, Flux. One of her songs, "Psyche ," was used on episode #501 of Dawson’s Creek, originally airing on 10/10/2001. This episode is included on the Season 5 DVD set.

Jennifer Wilde (then working under her maiden name, Jennifer Ryan Fuller) collaborated with Lum and Perry on two tracks for Love Spirals Downwards' 1994 second release, Ardor. Her vocals from one of these songs, "Sunset Bell," were reused for a new version of the song 4 years later on the band's album, Flux. Wilde went on to form her own band, Liquid State, in January 2006.

Although the band never officially broke up, in 1999 Lum began releasing music under the shortened moniker, Lovespirals, featuring new vocal collaborator, Anji Bee. In January 2000, the Love Spirals Downwards career retrospective CD, Temporal, was released by Projekt with no indication of the duo's split.

Soon after the 2002 release of Lovespirals' first full-length album, Windblown Kiss, Projekt announced that Perry would release an EP under the band name, Melodyguild. Though recorded in 2003, the band's debut EP, Aitu, wasn't released until mid-2008. Perry has since collaborated with Falling You on material released in 2006 and 2008.

In 2007 Projekt re-released the first two Love Spirals Downwards albums remastered by Ryan Lum with additional tracks included in newly designed digipacs. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Love+Spirals+Downwards">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.