Every now and then you bump into a hidden piece of art, a gem hidden in the sand of an unexplored beach. The first promo-CD of LOVECRAAFT makes it perfectly clear that this new French band is one of those hidden gems.

Influenced by Opeth, Inflames and Dark Tranquillity, LOVECRAAFT manages to create their own unique and mesmerizing sound, best described as progressive melodic death metal.
Complex melodic structure and musical harmony of the five songs throw you into a magical realm of forgotten kingdoms and withering beauty. Tight riffs, the pounding bass and drums combined with the guttural growls of the singer bring something wonderful yet melancholic into being.
Hard to believe that the band was formed in 2006 by Max (guitars), AMC (drums/vocals) and Gill (bass) and that this promo-CD was recorded in February 2007. Later this year they were joined by Agath (female vocalist), Gilles (guitar) and Pris (Lead Vocal).

Despite being a death metal band LOVECRAAFT is a typical band and clearly influenced by classical music, jazz and even folk, making their music more eerie and melancholic than aggressive and destructive.
Songs like Inorganic, Sagitarius and, my favourite, Shape Shifter are well constructed with guttural growls, clear vocals - that add to the eeriness and sadness of the lyrics - and melodic harmony with acoustic parts.
While often the dark menacing growls pull you down in a pool of despair and sorrow, the slow haunting sound of the guitars, the clear melancholic voice of the female vocalist and the creepy whispering send chills up and down your spine.
Even the more up tempo parts of the songs Maps Of Creation and Grey's Elegy illuminate the struggle between good and evil, wisdom and foolishness, deception and truth.
The changes and breaks are coherent and add to the lyrics. These aren't just songs: this is epic storytelling through sounds. And I cannot wait for the next chapter of this story.
* * *

Label: unsigned/Demo CD
Release: February 2007
By: Aeryn
Rating: 8.5/10
Time: 17:41
Tracks: 5
Style: Progressive Melodic Death Metal

http://www.nocturnalhall.com/frameindex_e.htm

Mya ( now officially working as music journalist for Nocturnal Hall Magazine as Aeryn) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lovecraaft">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.