There are multiple artists with this name:

1. LOVEBITES is a young Japanese heavy metal / power metal all female band from Tokyo. The initial line up consists of: Asami (vocals), Midori (guitar), Miho (bass), Haruna (drums) and a support member - Mi-ya (guitar/keyboard). Their first live performance took place in November 18, 2016 at Shibuya. Soon after on 24 May, 2017 the band has released 4-track minialbum "THE LOVEBITES EP" promoted by a MV "Don't Bite The Dust".

On summer 2017, the band has announced an upcoming full-lenght album "AWAKENING FROM THE ABYSS" to be released on 25/10 this year. On 22/09, they've uploaded on youtube promo MV from the new record, "Shadowmaker". The track is available now on iTunes.

2. Lovebites was an indiepop band from Copenhagen that released 3 studio albums and one live album. 1996s Nothing But Joy was a succesful affair that gave them considerable attention in Denmark. 1999s Exploding Star and 2004s Lovebites were the two followups. In the meantimes Solveig Sandnes and Henrik Olesen disbanded. Lovebites played infectious indie pop with lovely tunes not unlike The Cardigans. They played a considerable part on the indie scene of the 90s in the danish capital - and were an organisational door opener for bands like Mew and Moi Caprice that followed in their footsteps eventually surpassing their succes.

3. lovebites was a Japanese rock group that originally formed in 1996 as LOVE BITES (See entry on Love bites' artist page.) They disbanded in 1999, but reformed in 2004. The initial line up on reforming was 毅 (Tsuyoshi, vocals), 大竹英明 (Hideaki Otake, guitar), 村田直樹 (Naoki Murata, bass) and JAGAAR (drums). 圭介 (Keisuke) became their drummer when JAGAAR left in early 2005. Naoki left in 2007, and Z'GOK (bass) and KA2YA (guitar) joined the band. This line-up remained consistent until they disbanded.
They disbanded again in December of 2008. Tsuyoshi is currently frontman and leader of リモ☆ with SAVANNA P.K. ORCHESTRA.

4. LOVEBITES is a rock band from Birmingham, UK.

(Not to be confused with the UK pop group Love Bites or The Love Bites. If you're here due to them, please fix your artist tags.)

Lovebites is also a podcast. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lovebites">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.