There is more than one artist with this name, including.
1) Lowercase was an American band with primary members Brian Girgus (drummer) and Imaad Wasif (guitarist).
2) Lowercase (born June 6, 1994) is a rapper combining grunge, alternative rock & hip-hop. 

1) lowercase was an American band from San Francisco, via Palm Desert. The group’s primary two members, drummer Brian Girgus and guitarist Imaad Wasif, formed the band in Palm Desert, California before making the migration to San Francisco.
The duo, which employed several different bassists during its existence, wandered a wavery road between quirky, melodic indie rock a la Built To Spill, darker and more dangerous sounding minor chord fare, and twisted, noisy freakout sessions.
The group released three full-length albums: All Destructive Urges... Seem So Perfect (1996) and Kill the Lights (1997) on Minneapolis-based Amphetamine Reptile and Going-Away Present (1999) on Unwound’s Punk in My Vitamins label, as well as many seven inches and various appearances on compilation.  That latter album provided the source material for this remix of “Floodlit,” featured in Skyscraper Magazine’s Technology remix compilation.  
After the band dissolved, Imaad Wasif formed Alaska! with another drummer, Russ Pollard of Sebadoh. Imaad Wasif released his first self-titled solo album in 2006 and has since put out records under his name as well as doing stints with the Yeah, Yeah, Yeah's and The Folk Implosion.  He has also worked with drummer John Garza on the band Electric Flower.  Brian Girgus continued playing drums in the San Francisco band Track Star and later with Personal and the Pizzas, Nodzzz, and occasionally with the Wooden Shjips.  He writes and records and plays shows under the name Si, Claro as well. 

2) Lowercase (born June 6, 1994) is a rapper combining grunge, alternative rock & hip-hop. The youngest of the family tree, Lowercase grew close to the legends of NaS, Black Thought, Common, The Pharcyde and Rza of the Wu-Tang Clan.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lowercase">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.