There are currently several artists using the name LSD:
1) Dominican DJ and remixer behind the Spit Or Swallow mixtapes
2) Japanese hardcore punk band
3) American Rap group from Riverside, California
4) Progressive Psychedelic Metal band from Glasgow, Scotland
5) A Venezuelan rock band from the 60's
6) Jazz Trio
7) Lithuanian Rap group
8) American rapper from Inglewood, California
9) Dutch Rapgroup
10) Czech rock band from Pilsen
11) Canadian hardcore punk band
12) Last Soul Descendents - Trip-Hop
13) Italian industrial group
14) Psychedelic rock/grunge band from Armenia
15) Video game remix group from the OverClocked ReMix community
16) Russian grunge-punk band from Borovichi, Novgorod region.
17) A techno trio
18) Labrinth, Sia, Diplo
1) LSD is a psychedelic rock/grunge band from Armenia. They have five live compilations- Cheers club, el Mescalito, Flat butterfly, lesbian sisters' demonstration, Lost in improvisations. Scandalous for their drug propoganda, this is the most powerful band of armenian underground.

Every song is written in some third world languages and the inspiration of their songs comes often out of their own life expiriences.


2) Fast Japanese hardcore punk, in the same vein as contemporaries Kuro.  1983-1986.

3) LSD, which stands for Lyrical Sound Dealers, is a Chicano gangster Rap group from Riverside, California. It was a group that formed in the mid 90's under the record label Familia records. Their associated act is the group N'land Clique, also from Familia records.


6) A Video Game Music Arranging Jazz Trio consisting of Lenwood Turner, Samuel Ascher-Weiss and Dustin Kaufman.

9) LSD is also a Dutch Rapgroup where LSD means "Lyricale Straat Dichters". They consist of a group of 10 people; 5 artists (BlexXx, Don.G, Mitta, Nino, Singa) and 5 crew members (Bigz, Coach, Slow, Soldier, Stacy).  
They started writing lyrics in English but are currently writing in Dutch, simply because it was more popular.

15) LSD stands for Lenwood-Samuel-Dustin, the forename of all three members of the group: Lenwood Turner, Samuel Ascher-Weiss and Dustin Kaufman.

16) LSD is a techno trio starring Luke Slater, Steve Bicknell and Dave Sumner (AKA Function)

18) LSD is a collaborative project comprising English musician Labrinth, Australian singer Sia and American DJ/record producer Diplo. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/LSD">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.