There are multiple artist called Lu:

1)  LU is a czech band, from the small town Koprivnice, where a new young music scene blossoms. They play alternative rock, with smashy guitar spaces but even sweet melodies. Only the eponymous album Lu (2003), but a new album is planned on autumn 2006. Releasing on Piper Records.
LU were formed in 2002 by these members: Zbyněk Machetanz (guitar, vocals, sampling), Martin Pýcha (guitar), Martin Vašica (bass guitar, vocals), Hynek Kovář (drums). Their eponymous debut album was released in 2003 at Piper Records and got many excellent reviews in the press. The band recorded the album on their own in an improvised home studio. The recording and mix have been done by Pavel Pohořelský (Valerian’s Future, Vítrholc, Nesselsdorf). In the following months, LU gave concerts with Folk3Mail, Nierika, OTK, C, Selfbrush, Sunshine, Priessnitz, Tata Bojs, Enon and others. As LU were left by Martin Pýcha in 2004, the missing guitar was substituted with Honza Szabó’s keyboard and Adam Kovář’s violoncello. In this cast they took part in Malá Alternativa contest and won. Subsequently, a report about the band was shown on TV in broadcast Paskvil.

In 2007 the band was left by drummer Hynek Kovář and Tomáš Neuwerth (Nierika, Umakart, Údery Údy, Milano) was chosen to be the new support of the team. In June 2009 Martin Vašica left the band too. Surprisingly, after these personal changes and after more than a two-year gap LU started to give concerts again, in an ubelievable term they finished their second album named OWES & VOWS and released it in December 2009 at Kopřivnice-based company Piper Records. In January 2010 the band presented their new bass guitarist and back-vocalist Pavel Karas (who is also a member of the band Heads Off To). The album OWES & VOWS was nominated as the best alternative album of the recent year.


2)  LU is a duo from Guadalajara, Mexico. The members are Paty Cantu and Mario Sandoval. Their sound is Pop Latino… Similar to Aleks Syntek. Their first self-titled album, “LU”, had moderate success in Mexico, USA, Brazil, And Latin America. Their second album, “Album”, was released in September 2006. Their singles up to date are “Duele,” “Por Besarte,” “Una Confusion.”, “Sera”, and “La vida despues de ti”“

3)  Lu is also a Greenlandic rockstar, now living in Denmark. He plays (økse/axe)rock, metal, electronica and progressive disco.

4) Lu is a nickname of Polish DJ from Wrocław, who blends rap, lounge, and acid jazz.

5) LU is a three piece instrumental outfit from the U.S. Their first album was released on 9/11/01 on on Trevor HollAnd’s pulCec label (a subsidiary of Darla). Their second album, Share the load, was released on Textilesounds (http://www.textilesounds.com/). LU features members of Lorelei, Grappa, The Saturday People, and Macitajs on Acid.

6)  Lu is 25 and from London. she has only recently started to record music, though she has been writing songs for a number of years… ’ Still Holding Your Love’ is her debut EP… and has been released by new UK label Vision. She will be releasing a single called 'Foolish Pirde' in the Autumn 2009

7) Lu is synth Pop Project from the 80s.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.