There are multiple artists with the name Lucas.

1. A Hong Kong k-pop singer.
2. A Danish musician
3. A Finnish musician.
4. A Dutch musician.

1. Wong Yuk-hei (traditional Chinese: 黃旭熙; simplified Chinese: 黄旭熙, born 25 January 1999), better known by the mononym Lucas, is a Hong Kong rapper, singer, and model. He is a member of the South Korean boy group NCT and its sub-units NCT U and WayV, as well as SM Entertainment supergroup, SuperM. Lucas was born on 25 January 1999 in Sha Tin, Hong Kong, to a Chinese father with Teochew ancestry and a Thai mother. He has one younger brother and attended Tung Wah Group of Hospitals Yow Kam Yuen College.In 2015, Lucas was scouted by SM Entertainment, a South Korean entertainment agency, after passing a Global Audition that was held in Hong Kong. Lucas was accepted after only one modeling audition. As an SM trainee, Lucas received training in singing, rapping, and dancing. On 5 April 2017, he was introduced as a member of SM Rookies, a pre-debut training team composed of young trainees who would potentially debut as idol group members. On 7 April 2017, Lucas made an appearance in NCT member Ten's "Dream In A Dream" music video. Lucas, whose mother tongue is Cantonese, studied Korean and Mandarin in preparation for his debut.In January 2018, SM Entertainment unveiled NCT 2018, a project group for the expansive boy group NCT. Lucas, together with Kun and Jungwoo, were the group's newest members. The trio were introduced in SM's NCT 2018 Yearbook #1 on 30 January 2018. Lucas officially made his debut with NCT on 14 March, with their debut studio album NCT 2018 Empathy. Lucas recorded three songs in the album as part of the sub-unit NCT U, including title tracks "Boss," "Yestoday" (both as NCT U), and "Black on Black" To promote the album, Lucas appeared on Korean variety shows Real Man 300 and Law of the Jungle in Last Indian Ocean as regular cast members. Lucas was featured on Taeyeon's song "All Night Long," a track recorded in her EP Something New, released in June 2018. The song peaked at number 72 on the Gaon Digital Chart. In November 2018, Lucas released the digital single "Coffee Break," with Jonah Nilsson and featuring Richard Bona, for SM Station 3. In December 2018, Lucas was announced to be a part of NCT's China-based unit WayV, managed by Label V. The seven-member unit officially debuted on 17 January 2019 with their debut EP The Vision. Its lead single "Regular" was the Mandarin remake of "Regular" by NCT 127. The following month, Lucas joined the cast of Chinese variety show Keep Running as a fixed cast member for the seventh season. On 7 August 2019, Lucas was announced as a member of SuperM, a K-pop "supergroup" created by SM Entertainment in collaboration with Capitol Records. The group's promotions began in October and are aimed at the American market. SuperM's self-titled debut EP was released on 4 October 2019 with lead single "Jopping". On 5 October, Lucas had his first concert with SuperM at the Capitol Records Building in Los Angeles, preceding a world tour with stops in North America and planned stops in Europe and Asia.

2. Lucas Secon (known musically as Lucas) is a Danish-American Grammy and MTV-Award nominated musician best known for his 1994 song "Lucas With The Lid Off" from his album Lucacentric'. He has helped sell over 20 Million records,receiving many Gold and Platinum plaques from US,UK and ROW in the process. Having many top 5s,top 10s and a number 1 as well. Signed to Uptown Records by Andre Harrell, Lucas debuted in 1990 with the album To Rap My World Around You. In 1992 he signed with Atlantic Records and moved into the public eye with the release of his 1994 album Lucacentric, a much more jazz-influenced work than his previous effort. Lucacentric went top 10 in at least 10 countries and was top 30 on the US charts. The music video for his single "Lucas With The Lid Off", directed by Michel Gondry, earned a Grammy nomination for Best Music Video, Short Form and a MTV Video Music Award nomination for Best Male Video in 1995. The video features a very distinctive and memorable style, being shot in one take among a variety of different sets. It was voted #4 best video of all time by MTV US.

3, Lucas (Lucas Zischka, born 31st May 1999 Espoo) is a Finnish singer and a musician. He released his first album "Lucas" in 2016 which has sold gold. In August 2020 he released his latest single Mutsi ootsä ylpee, which is his 16th single.

4. LUCAS (Lucas Vermeer) is a Dutch musician and songwriter. His  Dutch lyrics are best known for being about the human desire for affection, mixed with themes such as gender roles and heteronormativity. He released several EPs (Esthetiek, Ambivalent and Bipolair). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lucas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.