Cali, COLOMBIA February 1993...LUCERA was formed. The first line-up was Andres "Buziraco" Granada (guitars), Julian Polanco (drums) and Carlos "Solrac Doom" Estrada (Vocals). Polanco left the band and was replaced by session drummers. At the same time "Buziraco" and "Solrac Doom" started rehearsing their own material. First two written songs were 'By the Curse Of The Demiurge' and 'The Battle Of The Immortal Heroes'. In 1994 Geovanny Arce (ex-Atanab vocal) joined the band to play drums. Later, after fighting in Colombian civil war against the revolutionaries FARC (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia) and ELN (Ejército de Liberación Nacional), Andres "Ophicvs" Mejia joined the band. Also in that year LUCERA recorded a rehearsal tape distributed among a selected circle of friends. The quality of the sound was low due to the fact it was recorded with amature equipment. In August 1996 LUCERA took part in the first black metal festival which took place in Cali, with bands like Apolion`s Genocide (R.I.P.), Mephiztophel, and  Utuk Xul (earlier known as Dies Irae). LUCERA kept playing until 1998, when the band decided to take a break and some of the members helpingthere other bands: "Ophicvs" in Eclipse, Seventh Race, At Dusk, and Ossaravenhead. Geovanny Arce in Liturgia. "Buziraco" joined a speed metal band in Florida called Sovereignright (R.I.P.). In 2005 the band reunited with the original vocal/lyricmind "Solracdoom"and recorded their first promo after almost 8 years of absence. Later, LUCERA attempted to reunite with the original drummer "Delmot", but for personal reasons Solracdoom and Delmot couldn't continue with the band. In 2006 LUCERA found a new vocal, John Mejia (The Glorious Death's frontman)and the band is striking back with all its power creating an Opus of death and destruction of pure old school black metal.

Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lucera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.