Lucifer Was is a Norwegian progressive hard rock band who formed in the early 70's.

Their sound is reminiscent of Black Sabbath, Deep Purple, Uriah Heep, early Scorpions and Jethro Tull. The band also incorporates flutes in their work.

Although recordings of Lucifer Was's music existed prior to 1997, it was then that the band entered the studio to re-record their tracks. The new recordings were released by Record Heaven (http://www.recordheaven.net/).

Their first recording, “Underground and Beyond”, was released in 1997. It was followed by “In Anadi’s Bower” and “Blues From Hellah”.

Their fourth album, The Divine Tree,  appeared in 2007. In 2007 the band also launched it's www.luciferwas.com which has more information on the band and links to various online resources.

The bands last record "The Crown Of Creation" has recently been released (2010) and is a cycle of songs recorded with Kristiansand Symphony Orchestra and two of the world's leading classical performers, flautist Michala Petri and violinist Jan Stigmer, and has received fantrastic reviews from around the world. The secret behind the great gel between band and orchestra is that all orchestral music was recorded first and then the band did their stuff. This worked very well, and gave a lot of space to all details and orchestration. The arrangements for the orchestra was done by the present day composer Dagfinn Koch. Most of the music is written by the bands leader Thore Engen.  


Previous line up:
Thore Engen - Guitar + Vocal
Dag Steneng - Flute + Vocal
Anders Sevaldson - Flute
Einar Bruu - Bass
Kai Frilseth - Drums 

The present line up:

Thore Engen, Guitars and vocals
Jon Ruder, Vocals
Einar Bruu,  Bass
Deb Girnius, Flute, vocals
Arne Martinussen, B3 organ and other keyboards
Rune Engen, Drums
Andreas Sjo Engen, Guitar
Freddy Linquist, Guitars  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lucifer+Was">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.