There are six bands called Lucid :

1) Lucid are The Hague's hottest motorpunk trio, merging speed and space into one.

2) Lucid is a groove metal band in the vein of Pantera and released two albums. A self titled in 1998 and Broken in 1999, which featured a cover of Stayin' Alive.

3) lucid is a dance/trance U.k. band from 1998-2000, sometimes stylised as L U C I D. The lead singer of lucid is Clare Canty. Some of their hits include:  I Can't Help Myself, Crazy, This is my phase, and staying alive. L U C I D is still considered an underground band.

4) In 2000 a band was formed in Spokane, Washington called Lucid. The idea was to make a hard rock/metal band that was tight, progressive, melodic and heavy without sounding like everything else that was on the radio. After cutting their teeth for a couple of years in the Inland Northwest circuit and going through a few cast changes, the band found their sound and won worldwide acclaim by hitting the 1 spot with three different songs on Mp3.com in 2003. Their success continued after they recorded their first full length album called Digging Through as they landed gigs with acts like  Saliva , Adema , Papa Roach , Flyleaf , White Snake , Trust Company , The exies ,  Smile Empty Soul , Tesla , Myles Kennedy of Alter ,  Bridge , sir mix a lot ,Floater , Thousand Foot Krutch , Earshot  to name a few as well as over a dozen endorsements which includes True Line Drum Sticks, Getm Getm Gear, Pintec, Radioactive Energy Drink, Basson, Maxline amongst many others.

Few DIY bands have the work ethic, business savvy and undeniable quality and originality in their music as Lucid does and even fewer can claim they have performed over 300 shows to tens of thousands of people in the process. 2008 looks to be the busiest year to date for Lucid as they have a West Coast tour in the works and are working on new material for their second full-length album. Lucid has been touted “The next big thing to come out of Washington” by Spokane’s most popular radio DJ and 2008 is the year Lucid proves it.

5) "Ever since Lucid crashed the Baton Rouge scene, the band has showcased a hard rock jam band core with funk/blues bass, pulse pounding metal riffs, and vocals that ranged from pensive and soulful to vein popping screams. Constantly striving to keep their sound alive and avoid stagnation, Lucid began venturing into other avenues of music to further enhance their own. Slowly the nucleus of their style began to morph into a more melodic and flowing vibe that takes you from melancholy lows and thrusts forward into rhythmic highs. To assure that the band will not be pigeonholed into a typical metal style, Lucid incorporates drop tempo melodies to intensify the dynamic sweep of many of their songs. Through their exploration Lucid has found the proper channels to take the band into a progressive sound that is not only exciting to the body but insightful to the soul. While they're considered progressive hard rock, the band still enjoys keeping that jam band feel that helped to start it all. Lucid originally released their first album "IV Year" in 2007 and then again in 2008.

The band is currently releasing their sophomore album, "Odysseus Complex." To further elaborate the profoundness of this experience, the "Odysseus Complex" trilogy will be created as three EP's each having its own fingerprint on the album's story. The trinity will take you through a world of emotions, fears, loves, trials and triumphs while you tap your foot and bang your head. It all begins with "Premonition;" the introduction of the darkness that dwells within, feeding your doubt, crushing your spirit and ultimately trying to consume you. It boasts tracks such as, "In the Night" and "Shotgun" that jump head first into the most insecure spaces of the mind while being chased by hard hitting fast paced drums and guitars. With the end of this tunnel still long out of sight, one can only wonder, will its end bring a vibrant light or only more darkness? "

6)Barreling out of the northern woods like a grizzly bear on speed, Lucid, the hardest working band in the North Country (Upstate NY and VT), careens across the musical spectrum as a V8 blend of genres emerge- from jazz to rock, honky-tonk blues to reggae. Formed in 2003, the latest album from the sextet, “Dewdmanwah”, was released this past fall to regional acclaim in the northeast. With 2010 aimed at being their breakthrough year, keyboardist Andy Deller looks forward to gracing the country with a healthy dose of Adirondack soul and passion. “Our sound is catchy yet eclectic. The songs get stuck in your head, and there is a very distinct tone,” said Deller. “The influences and the styles we play are wide ranging. But always at the center of it all is a thick thread of rock tying everything together. Our music has a little something for everybody. Audiences all over are very appreciative. We get applause, we get hooting and hollering, and sometimes nakedness. They’re always dancing.” Roaming the nation on their graffiti-doused, Neal Cassady-esque psychedelic bus, "Lucy", the rock bandits roll joyously along the road towards musical stardom, taking no prisoners, and always having fun in a sometimes-unforgiving industry. “We just want people to go away thinking ‘that was a good time’,” Deller said. “And maybe for the next week or two they can’t get that one song out of their heads, but it’s a good thing. It’s like burping four hours after a meal, and saying, ‘oh yeah, that lasagna was good’.” “Living in a ski town, one constantly hears the adage, ‘if you like it now, you should have been here 10 years ago, before all these people showed up’,” said Garret K. Woodward (Roving Festival Writer/State of Mind Music Magazine). “The funny thing is, in 10 years, I'll probably be saying the same thing about Lucid and the unforgettable presence they create onstage and out of your speakers.”

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/rulucid#ixzz14cF2jEz1

*Edit

There once was a rock band from Waterloo, Ontario called Lucid. The band consisted of Kyle (guitar, vocals), Dan (bass), and Mike (drums). They parted ways in 2004 or something. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lucid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.