Lucie Silvas born 4 September 1977 in Kingston-Upon-Thames, London is a singer/songwriter from the United Kingdom. 

Born Lucie Joanne Silverman. Lucie left school in the sixth form, where she became a backing vocalist for ex-Take That vocalist Gary Barlow and singer Judie Tzuke. In 2000 Lucie Silvas recorded her album "Forget Me Not" - with tracks including the single "It's Too Late". This song entered the charts with a low position, and Lucie was subsequently dropped from her record label.

She then went on to write songs for other artists including Will Young, Gareth Gates, Rachel Stevens and Liberty X.

In 2003, Lucie was signed to Mercury Records, and given a long time to write her debut album, Breathe In. The first single from this album, What You're Made Of entered the charts at number 7, and a few weeks later the album entered the charts at number 11 (the highest chart position it has gained, although it has returned to this position on multiple occasions). Following TV appearances on the Ivor Novello Elton John tribute show, and All Time Greatest Love Songs with Ronan Keating, Lucie Silvas released her second single from the album, Breathe In, which debuted at number 6. Lucie then released power-ballad The Game Is Won and the rock-esque Don't Look Back which entered the charts at numbers 38 and 34 respectively. However, the last single from her album, a self-penned ballad entitled Forget Me Not, entered the UK charts at a low #76.

Having been in the business for almost a year, Lucie has a UK tour, a platinum album and 4 top 40 singles already under her belt. On November 2nd 2005 Lucie embarked upon her next tour, starting in Brighton and has already written her much anticipated follow up album in 2005. Lucie has also been collaborating with the critically acclaimed songwriter Eg White, with whom she wrote the Will Young single Who Am I.

Lucie's second album The Same Side was recorded in late 2006. It was released in October 2006 in the Netherlands and in March 2007 in the UK and the rest of Europe. The first UK single, "Last Year" was premiered on BBC Radio 2 in late August 2006, and a duet with Marco Borsato, "Everytime I Think of You," in the Netherlands. The Same Side was produced by Danton Supple, who produced Coldplay's X&Y. In the Netherlands, "Everytime I Think of You" charted on #35 on downloads only, topping the Dutch Top 40 in the next 3 weeks. It became her first Number 1 single in the Netherlands.

"Last Year" was the first single in the UK and peaked at #79, and #114 in Republic of Ireland. Following this setback, Mercury Records decided to postpone the UK release of her new album, which had been scheduled for October 2006; it was re-scheduled for March 12 2007.

The second single chosen was "Sinking In", a Pop/Rock song released on 5 March 2007 in the United Kingdom and Ireland. The single was released as a download only and did not create much interest and did not enter the charts at all.

The album charted at #62 on the UK Albums Chart in its first week, selling 8,000 copies in its first week. At the second week, the album charted outside the Top 100, selling only 2,000 more copies. A DVD of The Same Side has been released in the Netherlands.

After "The Same Side" failed to impact on the charts Lucie was subsequently dropped by her label.

Lucie has spent the last few months working on new music in Nashville, Tennessee and NYC, as well as in studios in the UK. Several demos have been recorded and posted to various sites on the internet such as Lucie's official myspace page. In August 2009, Lucie revealed that she was writing with Australian singer Delta Goodrem. In September 2009 Lucie also told fans on Twitter she was working on getting new material out in 2010 and was also planning a European tour.

In February 2010, she spent some time in the studio with Nadine Coyle of Girls Aloud [5].


Her fiance is the Leicester and Ireland rugby player Geordan Murphy. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lucie+Silvas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.