Lucia Popp (Lucia Poppova) (November 12, 1939 - November 16, 1993) was a popular operatic soprano from Slovakia.

"Miss, you're phenomenal!" cried the great Elisabeth Schwarzkopf upon hearing her for the first time. Lucia Popp made her debut in 1963 in Bratislava, and then appeared at the State Opera of Vienna, Austria, where she remained until her death. Popp began with magnificent portrayals of coloratura soprano roles, and as her career progressed, moved into the light-lyric, and then lyric, repertoire. Every movement gained her notable success.

Popp is perhaps best known for her rendition of the Queen of the Night in the legendary 1963 recording of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's The Magic Flute directed by Otto Klemperer. Her incredible talent in this midst of the other impressive singers on the recording is still a wonderful reminder of a golden age of operatic singing.

Her timbre - both round and warm - and her technique are well-loved by opera connoisseurs worldwide.[citation needed] One of the foremost interpreters of coloratura soprano roles since World War II, Popp has sung in the greatest theaters of the world, notably in Salzburg, Munich, and London. "Not really a scholar, but a theatrical sweetheart.", she described herself. Aside her singing, her warm and charming personalities were also lovingly remembered.

She married twice. Her second husband was Peter Seiffert, a famous German tenor. She died of brain cancer suddenly.

Besides the Queen of the Night, Popp is known for her performances as Susanna later the Contessa (The Marriage of Figaro), Pamina (The Magic Flute), Sophie later the Marschallin (R. Strauss' Der Rosenkavalier) and as Eva (Wagner's Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg). Her operetta performances were also highly praised. Because of her progressions in her career, she would sing various roles in the same opera in different stages: (to name but a few) Zdenka and Arabella (R. Strauss's Arabella), Susanna and Contessa (Mozart's Le Nozze di Figaro), Queen of the Night and Pamina (Mozart's Die Zauberflote), Zellina to Donna Elvira, later Donna Anna (Mozart's Don Giovanni), Adele and Rosalinde (J. Strauss II's Die Fledermaus), Annchen and Agathe (Weber's Der Freischutz), and Sophie and the Marschallin (R. Strauss's Der Rosenkavalier).

Wikipedia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lucia+Popp">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.