Luke Vibert is a British recording artist and producer from Redruth, Cornwall, UK known for his work in many subgenres of electronic music. Vibert began his musical career in 1989 as a member of the Hate Brothers, only later branching out into his own compositions. Vibert has recorded under several different aliases, most notably Plug and Wagon Christ.

Possibly the most original of the neo-ambient trip-hoppers was Luke Vibert, also known as Wagon Christ, a protagonist of the British scene since the early 1990s. 
Luke Vibert devoted his project Wagon Christ to the ambient side of the trip-hop equation with Phat Lab Nightmare (1994) and especially with the celestial trance of Throbbing Pouch (1995), exuding abandon and fatalism. Massive sampling of orchestral sounds gave Tally Ho! (1998) an almost symphonic grandeur. 

In 1994 Vibert's talent was featured on a series of recordings: the EP Sunset Boulevard (Rising High, 1994), the album Phat Lab Nightmare (Rising High, 1994), with the ever more psychological Mahadelic and Aerhaart, and the EP At Atmos (Rising High, 1994), that moved towards a more percussive approach with the likes of Inside Out and Hasjit. These recordings were influential in redefining the standard for ambient rave music.

In late 1999 and 2000, Vibert began touring with BJ Cole to promote their fusion album Stop the Panic. In 2002, he would begin a series of live collaborations with Aphex Twin. Although Aphex Twin and Luke Vibert never released an album together, Aphex Twin used the song name "Analord", from Vibert's album Lover's Acid, for a series of EPs. Vibert's later releases varied in style as he released albums under various names, including Plug, Amen Andrews, Kerrier District and Spac Hand Luke. "Amen Andrews" is a word play on the name of Irish game show host Eamonn Andrews, referring to the fact that each Amen Andrews track uses the Amen break. In 2004, Vibert explored acid disco when he remixed a Black Devil song, which was released on Disco Club (Remix) and released his first album under the alias Kerrier District. In 2006, a collection of vintage Plug drum'n'bass songs were released on Here It Comes EP.

In 2006, Vibert's song "Shadows" was featured on the DJ mix album A Bugged Out Mix by Miss Kittin,[3] which charted at number one-hundred seventy on the French Albums Chart.[4] In 2009, he contributed a cover of LFO's song "LFO" to the Warp20 (Recreated) compilation.

Like many of his contemporaries, Vibert has released under a wide number of aliases, including Amen Andrews, Spac Hand Luke, Plug, Kerrier District and The Ace of Clubs, as well as the aforementioned Wagon Christ. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Luke+Vibert">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.