'Luke De-Sciscio found his songwriting voice the old-fashioned way: by writing (and mostly not releasing) dozens upon dozens of folk songs, spread out across a decade, often while living on a boat with no electricity or heat'. [NPR]

His songs, mostly recorded live, winnow his music down to its most essential ingredients: a moment, a feeling and 'the most beautifully intrinsic lyrics I’ve ever heard'. [Scientists of Sound]

It is through this pursuit of truth that Luke has gained a devotional listenership, secured support slots with legends such as Cat Stevens and Jose Feliciano and been booked to play shows across Europe and the USA with the likes of Sam Amidon, Jessica Pratt and Laura Gibson.

In 2018 Luke De-Sciscio shared the stage with Jeff Buckley co-writer Gary Lucas to sing some of the very songs that had initially inspired him to walk the musical path he treads today.

In 2020 Luke released three critically-acclaimed albums: Good Bye Folk Boy, Eucharist and Sublime. Though each record is a Universe unto its own, together they form something bigger. A single cohesive journey from despair, agony and pain, through reflection, into light. Of the trilogy Luke explained: ‘the first is the snapping of a mirror, the second a coming to terms, the third is the light through the cracks.’

In recent years Luke has established a burgeoning following, thanks in part to the likes of Spotify who’ve championed him in their 'Most Beautiful Songs in the World' playlist on three separate occasions, with R.O.B.Y.N., I Gave You All My Love and An Honour.

In 2020, Bob Boilen heralded Luke as one of 'Ten Acts to Catch at SXSW' praising his authenticity, his poetry and claiming that I’m A Dream Fighting Out Of A Man is ‘just one of those songs.’  

Clash Magazine declared Luke a 'rising song-writing force' and his fourth album in fourteen months put to rest any claims to the contrary.

Luke De-Sciscio is a one man force on a mission to put the hypothesis to rights; that 'the truth will set you free,' that 'there must be a higher love', that 'you are everything, and everything is you.'

If you’re looking for lyrics that confront you as much as console you, if you’re looking for a writer who wouldn’t put a word to anything but the truth, if you’re looking to know someone, entirely. Then look no further. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Luke+De-Sciscio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.