Luke was legally born with the name Christopher R. James, Jr. In Littleton, Colorado on March 21st of 1996. However, his mother petitioned for a legal name change shortly after leaving her abusive husband (Luke's father). Luke's mom remarried a man whose last name was "Wiley." She always called him "Luke" as a nickname, and she didn't want to change his name to something completely unrelated to his biological father, so he was renamed, "Christian Luke Wiley." His mother's new husband was a stepfather figure to Luke for a few years afterwards, but ultimately the marriage ended in a divorce. A short while later, Luke finally had the opportunity to meet his biological father, Chris, in 2004. Luke remembers this day like it was yesterday. Luke was 8 years old, and Chris said he wanted to meet him. Sadly, Chris proceeded to let Luke know that he would be moving soon, so he bought Luke a few CD's as a gift; one was Eminem's "The Eminem Show," and the other was 50 Cent's "Get Rich or Die Trying." They drove around for a bit while listening to the CD's, and briefly chatted o get acquainted. The visitation ended poorly, when Luke's mother and Chris got in an argument. This would be the first and last time that Luke would ever see his biological father. Ironically, it was those gifts from his "father" that would ultimately light a passionate fire for hip hop music, and forever shape his future. Since then, Luke has always been fascinated by the hip hop culture; break dancing, graffiti, lyricism and dance. This fascination turned to love, and eventually lead Luke to start dancing at a young age.

Luke mostly grew up with his mother and brother. He also had a sister; however, she was old enough to be on her own. Luke resided in Colorado until 2008, when he moved to the small "town" of Rapid City, South Dakota. Luke's love for hip hop continued in South Dakota. After watching the movie "Step Up," he started practicing dancing daily, and even began to make some dance videos. One day, he was walking downtown during Summer Nights (a city event), and he saw some kids dancing in the alleyway. He bravely confronted the lady he presumed was in charge and asked if he could join in with the dance circle. He crushed it! His skill was so prominent that he was immediately offered a job as a hip-hop dance instructor at the downtown studio. Luke taught dance for a few years, but his passion for dance started to become overtaken by his love for music. As mentioned earlier, Eminem has always been an inspirational musician to Luke. However, Luke's passion for hip hop music also came from artists such as: Logic, Russ, Drake, Joey BadA$$, and Michael Jackson (for his messages, Music and Dance). Although Luke's musical preference is from the hip hop genre, he is open to listening to a wide spectrum of music and has really grown to appreciate the beauty of Jazz. It was evident to Luke that music was something he really needed to pursue. So, Luke grabbed his paper and pen and began writing words that flowed from his heart. He would write about his ambitions, his worries, his happiness and his fears...and soon these beautiful words transformed into lyrics. Luke claims that the music/melody just comes to him. So, he started composing songs and began recording hip hop music. Soon after he started recording his songs, people started to recognize this young up and coming talent and gave him local opportunities to perform live. Luke has done countless local shows, and has even opened for Strange Music's, Stevie Stone. Luke is currently on tour with Afroman and various other artists.

It was 2015 when Luke really started taking being an artist serious as a career. Luke started what is currently known as the #WileyMovement. Although this is the "brand name" attached to his music, his clothes and his musical endeavors, the #WileyMovement is much more than that. Luke recently quoted that the"#WileyMovement isn't just a brand. It's a way of life." The name "Wiley" was important and unique to Luke. He was not blood-related to any Wiley, nor did anyone in his family carry the "Wiley" last name. He doesn't feel ready to take on a name so similar to "Chris," so he has continued to use "Luke" primarily. Christian reminds him of his biological father, and his father's absence has definitely formed a large hole in his heart that Luke is still slowly learning how to fill. Thus, Luke chose to use his unique name of "Wiley" to create #WileyMovement; a movement, family, a team of people who all truly want to be good people and help others. The purpose of this movement is to focus on showing improvement within their lives personally and through their peers daily, by living life with love and practicing peace. That is what sets Luke apart from so many other artists. Luke lives with humility and strives to set a positive example for his peers. Many of his songs have messages stressing the importance of staying humble, while others have messages that are relatable to so many important aspects of life. Although Luke is only human, and is learning to perfect his craft, he will always stay true to what he believes is right and continue to try and impact others in a positive manner. He will continue to be a better version of himself today, than he was the day before, and he encourages others to follow suit. One of Luke's mottos is #WileyMovement show improvement. Those fortunate enough to know Luke have not only witness his refinement musically as an artist, but also his improvement as a parent, friend and teammate. It has been a beautiful journey to witness...and it's only just begun! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Luke+Wiley">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.