There are 3 bands with the name "Lull": - The project "Lull" by Mick Harris -  "Lull - duo acoustique" a French duo and also " Lull | Death" an alternative rock band from Indonesia.

Lull was conceived in late '91 by former Napalm Death drummer Mick Harris (who also created the ambient dub outfit Scorn) in an attempt to create music that would stretch, if not forsake entirely, the structures of conventional music by developing and exploring sound without beats. Harris' initial foray as Lull into low frequency sound exploration was issued in late '92 under the title Dreamt About Dreaming on the respected underground Sentrax label. In between his Scorn commitments, the ever prolific Harris continued to develop Lull by recording and releasing scores of 7's and compilation tracks, as well as two more full-lengths that each punctuated another stage of his progression.

The Label of the duo is Jamendo. - Their music is free available under the terms of the Creative Commons license.

Lull from Indonesia.Lull was formed on 2000 by J. Vanco, Dom Raditya, and Venendar Hambali, self-released their 500 copies first album Appetizer (2002). Soon to be called a “myth” noise.pop.rock.grunge.industrial mixed-up band, because of their sporadic gigs throughout the cities of Java, Indonesia. Followed by their player re-formation, which placed Hana Hasanah (from Clover) and Christian Nainggolan, inject a pair of fresh new blood in the band's vein. Body & Soul (2004) were released exclusively for their close friends and for the first time they have their music video (Renew) on MTV, just before J. Vanco decided to freeze the band because of an academic reason.

2 years after, they build a new musical direction and another new construction of Lull.

Now as a trio (J. Vanco, Aldi Pagaruyung, Christian Nainggolan), proving the masses about their “myth”, they put a bombing shows on every chances they get. Now after 3 years of putting tracks after tracks on the studio, they release their official second album Death, a concept, a mirror to life, and as their salutation for life!!. 

see also L.U.L.L. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lull">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.