The music business can be spirit crushing and soul destroying. Bands that start as groups of friends with a passion for music can end up disillusioned, with the flames of their passion near extinguished. This happened to George, Ross, Tim, Duncan and Rafael in their respective bands – but rather than let those last flickering embers burn out for good, they got together to forge a new entity and reignite the fire. The five friends got back to basics – a rehearsal room, some beer and blasting out the music they loved at insane volume and velocity. Every last ounce of fury and frustration was poured out in a barrage of blast beats. The dam holding back the anger burst and Lunatic Hooker came roaring, screaming, howling into the world.

Through that powerful, cathartic cleansing process, every band member began to reconnect with everything they had loved about extreme music in the first place and the fire quickly became an inferno of creativity and adrenaline. Before they knew it the band were ripping up stages with Magrudergrind, Fit For An Autopsy, Attan, Corrupt Moral Altar, Conjurer and Hang The Bastard, recording a monstrous, twisted cover of the Motörhead classic ‘(We Are) The Road Crew’ for a tribute album - and working on their full length debut.

Now that album is complete and straining at the leash, with the date of release set for April 17th on Black Bow Records. Mastered by Anaal Nathrakh’s Mick Kenney, Embracing The Filth features twelve tracks of punishing, pulverising death/grind, crackling with that irresistible rediscovered electricity. There’s so much more to this album than just that exhilarating rush though. The songs have been immaculately crafted and are overflowing with fantastic, memorable riffs, wicked hooks and searing lead work. From the explosive opener, ‘My God Is Bigger Than Yours’ to the crushing sludge landslide of ‘Sarlac’, Embracing The Filth is a stunning demonstration of just how captivating and accomplished truly extreme music can be. With artwork created by Dan Capp of Winterfylleth, Embracing The Filth is the complete package, the real deal and those flames are burning higher than ever. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lunatic+Hooker">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.