Luna Obscura’s vision has always been to create a mixture of Heavy, Atmospheric,  Melodic  and yet above all challenging music. In May 2004, LO released their first demo album under the name “Darcanda”. Produced and mixed by Steve Dickins and Dimitris Papachristos at STV Studios.
Received great reviews from numerous European Metal Magazines  and soon Enclave Records proposed “With My Demons I’ll Celebrate My Fall” to be feautured in their compilation cd.
   Just two years later, everything was ready for the big step and the band started to record the first full length album but due to financial reasons the recordings “finished” early. It was a huge disappointment but hopefully didn’t take so long and soon LO met up again to get the thing from where it was. Some months later the self funded EP “Evilyn” came out in February 2007. Two songs in decent production which were used for promotional purposes as long as the band tried to end up with the recordings and production of the album.
 
    On December  2008 LO released their first full length album under the name “Feltia”. Edited and mixed at 210 Studios (Berlin) and STV Studios (Greece) with producers Stamos Koliousis and Steve Dickins and mastered at   Finnvox Studios (Finland) by Mika Jussila..

   “Feltia” , a mind trick pun (Feel – Fall - Fault) defines the human psychic situation when melacholically and emotionally charged. Lyrically inspired from human psychology, moments in everyday life, people’s behavioural feelings along side with avant-garde poetry and enochian chants. Including 11 powerfull trakcs featuring guest appearance by Andy Giolmas (Mencea, Nebora) and Steve Dickins (STV Studios).

   The album artworks were made by Zilas (Bloodcult Zine). The official Luna Obscura Logos & Symbols, web design & photography were made by  Gogo Melone for MEL DESIGN ( Theodore Ziras,Bob Katsionis, Into The Woods, Black Thoughts Bleeding  etc.).

   With the dark, aggressive Harsh male vocal passages and the wonderful, romantic but still powerful female vocals, the drama of the keyboard melodies with the dynamic, heavy riffs… LO’s music easily walks into the deepest and obscure fears, nightmares and dreamscapes. The eternal dance between love and hate when the beauty finds “Death”!


Current line-up
Aris Potonos - Harsh Male Vocals / Lyricist
Gogo Melone - Female Vocals / Orchestral
Dimitris Papachristos - Guitars / Orchestral /  Programming
Stratos Kountouras - Bass

Official site: http://www.Lunaobscura.net/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Luna+Obscura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.