Lunocode was formed in September 2004 in San Giustino, a small village lost between the hills of Umbria, the green heart of Italy, by drummer Perseo Mazzoni, guitarists Paride Mazzoni and Giordano Boncompagni and bass player Francesco Rossi. At the time the band's name was Anima and after a little search singer Cecilia Menghi joined the band in 2005. In 2007 they published a demo cd called Birth featuring 4 songs. Birth has been received very well by the critics and the band started writing new material.

In 2009 they decided to record an EP called "Last Day of the Earth", featuring 5 songs (one of which was an acoustic version of "Invisible Tears", the 4th song of the Birth demo). They built their own recording studio, called "Anima Studios", to be able to record their tunes by themselves and after they finished recording, mixing and mastering

has been done. In 2010 they got in contact with Spider Rock Promotion and they got signed. At the same time singer Cecilia Menghi, who had already recorded vocal parts for the EP, decided to leave the band for personal reasons and the band's monicker has been changed from Anima to Lunocode.

Lunocode is a wordplay between Lunokhod and the english word Code. It has not an exact meaning but it can be translated it to something like "Lunar code" or similar. Lunokhod ("moonwalker" in russian) was the first radio controlled rover to land on the moon. Essentially it was a probe. Themes like universe, philosophy, exploration of the unknown are very appreciated by the band and are frequently covered in their lyrics, so that name has been a natural choice for them.

In search for a new singer, the guys found in Daphne Romano the perfect complement to their music. Daphne has a very emotional and dynamic approach to singing and the new material the band was composing at the time turned out to perfectly fit with her singing attitude. In fact a great step forward in composition has been made after the recording of the first EP and the sound, very power metal oriented on "Last Day of the Earth", became instead very progish.

So on January 10th 2011 "Last Day of the Earth" has been finally released and gave Lunocode good reputation as a promising new band. It is a mini-concept album and is available in digital format on iTunes or other online stores and in cd-rom format on the Spider Rock Promotion's website or by writing an email to the band.

On June 2011 Lunocode entered their studio to start recording their first full length album, called "Celestial Harmonies". On October 10th 2011 Lunocode released on the net a cover of "Kevin's Telescope", by "The Gathering", to let the world finally hear Daphne's beautiful voice.

Perseo, like he did on "Last Day of the Earth", recorded and produced "Celestial Harmonies" and, this time, he also mixed it at Anima Studios. Ronan Chris Murphy mastered it at his Veneto West Studio in Los Angeles and on January 10th 2012, one exact year after "Last Day of the Earth" was released, "Celestial Harmonies" has been released too.

For Lunocode 2011 has been a year of hard work but it has been a great year full of music and passion and recognition of the work done. The sound developed very much from the early days and now Lunocode can be better described as a progressive rock/metal band with some power metal influences. "Celestial Harmonies" features a large use of acoustic guitars and clean electric guitars arpeggios that, togheter with Daphne's attitude to emotional interpretation, create a very ethereal atmosphere during the 56 minutes of the album.

Lunocode's journey is just at the beginning. The band constantly develops his sound and will continue to write music with this attitude in the future, trying to do basically what the guys feel is right at the moment and trying to express their feelings and thoughts without being limited by clichès or stereotypes.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lunocode">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.