There is more than one artist with this name.

1) The first Riccardo Prencipe’s band, existing from 1999 'till 2005, then renamed Corde Oblique. Lupercalia's early days date back to 1999, when the duo made up of classical guitarist Riccardo Prencipe and violinist Pierangelo Fevola, from Italy, started experimenting various arrangements based around Riccardo's music, using inspiration from several artistic and literary sources.
The concept of transforming visual imagery into sound was persued by the duo since its inception - through their compositions, theatric images of ancient and popular life were reborn, often through the aid of additional synthesizers and samples, as well as self-made replicas of ancient instruments, which allowed this Italian project to achieve a peculiar formula that translated Gothic and Baroque music into a contemporary language through both modern and old instrumentation.

"Les Nuits des Samain", their debut recording, takes place in August 1999, and shortly after Lupercalia are invited to take part in the 5th installment of the "Intimations of Immortality" sampler compilation released through Energeia Records, from Italy.
A deal with World Serpent Distribution would allow Lupercalia to release "Soehrimnir", their first full-length offering and a fully instrumental work, in the year 2000. The addition of dulcimer and mandolin, alongside multiple sampled environmental sound clips, shaped the various aural paintings of places, both real and imaginary, that the duo proposed throughout the album.

The soprano Claudia Florio joined Lupercalia shortly after the release of "Soehrimnir", and new recordings were completed a few months later, just before the band embarked in various concerts that took place during the course of 2001, including a live performance in Utrecht, Holland.
August 2001 marks the beginning of the band's work around "Florilegium" (released in 2004), with the collaboration of Gianluca Uccio, on violin. Riccardo and Claudia have since become the core of the project, yet the recordings of "Florilegium" involved various other musicians, including a real string quartet that contributed to the remarkable orchestration on the album, now finally released via Equilibrium Music after several months of wait since its completion.

After the release of Florilegium, Riccardo Prencipe continued his career as a solo artist under the name Corde Oblique.

Members:
Claudia Florio - Soprano, choirs
Riccardo Prencipe - Classical guitar, orchestral synth, dulcimer

Guest musicians:
Gianluca Uccio - solo / first violin
Giovanni Borrelli - second violin
Roberto Bottino - viola
Gianfranco Scalzo - cello
Lina Salvatore - spoken voices

2) Portuguse Black/Death Metal band. ''Our dream started in 1998, when the band was born. Lvpercalia became our most wanted desire. In 2000 our first album was released intitled "The Sublimation of Darkness", a black metal anthem to all the dark hordes. Now in 2004 we bring to the listeners a taste of our new songs, in a way to let them know how Lvpercalia sounds nowadays. This MCD contains three songs recorded with all of our heart and soul and we hope honestly that you enjoy it. After the recording of this material we have changed the bass player and we are confindent of his value, we believe in his work and dedication. We would like also to thank the previous bass player for all of his work and dedication and for all the good moments we spent togheter, thank you Troll. We are anxious to play live and we hope to do so as quick as possible. Lvpercalia lives for playing live and we still exist because of all the people that listens to our music and that give us strength to continue in pursuit of our dream. See you all out there....''

From their site: http://www.lvpercalia.com      

Line-up:
Pedro Chincho - Guitar/vocals
Mário Chincho - Drums
Pedro Quintela - Guitar
Luís Santos - Bass

Discografia:
The Sublimation of Darkness (2000)
The New Blood (Mcd 2005)

3) Blackened Gothic Metal from Italy, formed in 1996. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lupercalia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.