There are three bands named Lurk.

1. Finnish death/doom/sludge metal band that released a full length in 2012. Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/lurkdoom

2. Lurk has been listening to electronic music since his first party, an Orb album launch party in 1993; he discovered psytrance about a year and a half after that and bought decks in '96, initially because all the best music was on vinyl. When vinyl started to die out, he invested in cdj's and went on from there.

Lurk's taste in music covers a large section of psytrance (as you can see from the tracklists below), from progressive morning music to screaming, dark night music. What he plays at a party depends very much on what time it is, and the mood of the crowd. His favourite psy is anything that is bouncey, groovy, and if it puts a smile on the faces of the dancers, so much the better. He definitely won't play anything that sounds too much like techno ;o)

Lurk started playing out in 1999 at Boom! records (http://www.boomrecords.com) label parties, and went on to be booked at parties all over Holland, as well as organising the respected Hoi Pol Loi parties with friends. After being made an official Boom! Records label DJ in 2003, bookings started coming in from overseas. In the last 18 months he has played club gigs in the UK for 180Degrees (twice) and Planet Shroom, outdoor gigs in India and plenty of both in Australia, as well as having a regular guest slot on Sydney's biggest, independent radio station, FBi. He has also played in the Netherlands and Sweden. He has supported acts like Eskimo, Protoculture, Rastaliens, Mindfield, Dick Trevor, SunControlSpecies, Fractal Glider, Misted Muppet and Legohead.

Now living back in the UK, he is available for bookings, price is negotiable (depending on the size and nature of the party), upwards from just travel expenses for a free party. He also plays back to back sets with Aurora (Maia Records).

Lurk has just finished compiling a cd for Sonic Dragon Records, called Get Your Wonk On. It features 10 tracks mixing the best up and coming UK talent with established international artists. It was released at the end of April. A couple of tracks are featured on his latest mix. For full info, and 4 minutes sound samples of every track, please go to this link: http://www.saikosounds.com/english/display_release.asp?id=6460

Homepage: http://www.hoipolloi.nl/djlurk/ where you'll also find lots of his mixes for download.

3. LURK is a hardcore punk band based in Chicago. Currently, they are signed to Undertone Records and have released two EPs. Demo, released in 2017, their first EP has songs like Herd Man and Brainless that set the tone for the band. They put out a three-song EP in 2018 called Promo Tape which includes two new songs and a Ramones cover.

Bandcamp: https://lurkusa.bandcamp.com/releases  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lurk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.