Lurker of Chalice is a one man black metal / experimental band based in San Francisco, CA. A formation date is unknown, but the first demo surfaced in 2001. The person behind Lurker of Chalice is Wrest who is also Leviathan and part of the the "all-star" USBM band, Twilight. Wrest was a drummer with the instrumental rock band, Gift Horse, before his foray into black metal.

Lurker of Chalice's sound is a hybrid between neofolk, not unlike Death In June, and the black metal style of Leviathan shrouded in bleak, dark atmospheres; there are also elements of krautrock and ambient.

To date, LoC has released one album: Lurker of Chalice, which was released first by Total Holocaust in 2005 limited to 1000 copies on CD only. Later, Southern Lord released a domestic version of the CD with alternate artwork, hand numbered and limited to 777 copies. They also released a 2xLP of the album which contained the bonus track, 'Wail', which was limited to the vinyl release only; a 2015 CD reissue also included "Wail." The 2008 and 2015 reissues also included the track "The Glory Experiment", also previously included on the 2002 demo.

Wrest has stated in previous interviews that there are four unreleased LoC albums. Only two demoes have been released; the first, known simply as L.O.C., contained 7 unnamed tracks, and the second, known (like the band's album release, despite being a completely separate recording) as Lurker of Chalice, contains ten named tracks (though oddly, the album packaging lists eleven; it is possible that two of them are combined as track eight, which contains a gap slightly under six minutes into the piece and shifts styles).

With the demise of Leviathan, announced in mid-Oct of 2007 (please see Leviathan wiki page for link of the announcement made by Blake of Nachtmystium / Battle Kommand Records), LoC was intended to be Wrest's main source of output and future LoC material was intended to consist of Leviathan intended material. However, Wrest's record label insisted on releasing this material under the Leviathan moniker. Wrest has stated that it is unlikely he will record further material under the LoC name, due to the suicide of the woman he credited as the project's muse. It is unclear whether he intends to release the project's other albums. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lurker+of+Chalice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.