Jeff McIlwain has been producing his visceral, melodic strain of abstract electronic music as Lusine for over 10 years now. Originally a Texas native, McIlwain met Shad Scott while living in LA and put out his self titled debut on Scott's imprint, Isophlux. He relocated to Seattle in late 2002 and began steadily releasing his music on Ghostly International. McIlwain has also contributed tracks to various compilations and remix releases on Mute, !K7, Kompakt, Asthmatic Kitty, and Shitkatapult. In 2009, he released the album, "A Certain Distance", which featured the single, “Two Dots.” His newest, critically acclaimed album, "The Waiting Room", was just recently released in 2013.

McIlwain has performed throughout the US and abroad, including the SXSW, Mutek, DEMF, and Sonar festivals, and sets at London’s esteemed Fabric nightclub, Tokyo's Unit, and Berlin's Berghain and Watergate nightclubs. He has been involved in the scoring of various film and commercial projects: co-scoring (with David Wingo) the 2008 film "Snow Angels" (with Kate Beckinsale and Sam Rockwell), and "The Sitter" (Jonah Hill) and scoring the 2009 film "Linewatch" (with Cuba Gooding Jr. and Omari Hardwick). McIlwain teamed up with David Wingo again this year to score the film "Joe" (Nicolas Cage) . He just recently wrapped up tours in Europe and Japan in 2013, and is prepping a new EP to be released sometime in 2014.


Texan Jeff McIlwain produces ambient/experimental techno that harks back to the era of classic early-'90s British techno (itself inspired by American sources in Detroit). Highly melodic though usually highly abrasive as well, his self-titled debut album was released in 1999 on the Isophlux label. He maintained a steady release schedule through 2003, with a full-length released each year -- in addition to an assortment of singles and EPs. Also performing under the name Lusine, in 2004 McIlwain signed to Ghostly for a series of releases including that year's Serial Hodgepodge, 2007's Podgelism, 2009's A Certain Distance, and 2013's Waiting Room. ~ John Bush, Rovi <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lusine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.