There are multiple artists using this name.

1. A blackened death metal band from Canada. Playing harsh, chaotic, and fast blackend death metal with overt themes of satanism, death, metal-way-of-life, perversion, occultism, and neo-nazism. 

Formed in 1994, Lust released material from 1997 - 2005. Formerly a three piece with Genocide Lord on bass and Inferno on drums, Lust has been a solo project of Sabazios Diabolus since the turn of the millennium. The project is currently "on a long hiatus." 

2. Lust was a American Melodic Heavy Metal band formed in 1982 in Nashville, Tennessee and active until 1986 when the group changed their name to Hocus Pocus.

3. Lust is a Mexican Black/Thrash Metal band. Lust recorded a promo tape in 1998 which was only distributed locally and they started to participate in the Mexican underground metal scene. At that time, the scene was ruled by bands like Cenotaph, Under Moonlight Sadness, Anarchus and The Zephyr, among others.
With the vocalist's departure and a couple of line-up changes, Lust has remained a quartet and recorded 3 songs for a 2003 split with Raped God (unreleased) and promoted 2 songs (which can be found on the new album) in CDr format in 2006 (limited to 666 copies).

4. Lust was a Brazilian Black Metal band from Itajubá city. Started as Lord Amduscias and changed name to Fortian Greymorning.

5. LUST is an electronic musician focusing on the sexy side of horror films.

6.  Lust from Atlanta Georgia plays Pop Punk songs with Cabaret style theatrics.

7. French heavy metal band with one album, 'We'll Never Die' (1988).

8. LUST is a reggae group comprised of Lukie D, Trilla U, Singing Melody and Tony Curtis.

9. Lust is a progressive rock band from Tunisia

10.  A shoegaze band from Toronto, Ontario, Canada. They shared members with Iris, another emo/post-hardcore/alternative rock influenced shoegaze band from Toronto.

11. LUST is an experimental pop/post-punk group from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Established in 2013, the group was formed out of members from Orang, Krooktroupe, Speakzodiac, and Middle. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.