Lux Carentes: Devoid of Light
A Latin Term Referring to the Dead

An amalgamation of influences, the sound of Lux Carentes has been described using every metal genre descriptor available.  From traditional, ambient black metal and doom metal to blackened crust, speed, and death metal.  Though all these styles and more influence their music, it's still quite difficult to pinpoint what exactly the sound of this experimental, avant noir metal band is.  At times depressive, atmospheric, and ghostly; at times thrashy, dark, and intense; always fiercely honest in their approach to playing music, while keeping a sense of humor about everything they do.  Lux Carentes is a welcome addition to the world of black metal.

Formed in 2009, out of the ashes of Chapel Perilous, came Lux Carentes.  Starting as a five piece with rhythm guitar player Jason Dengler, the now four piece have known each other for over 10 years and have been playing music together since 2004, most notably with guitar player Jake Nash and second bass player Eric Ungberg as Chapel Perilous.  In early 2010, sound engineer Phil Abbot caught Lux Carentes live in Ithaca, NY.  Impressed with what he heard, he approached the band and offered to record them a demo at the legendary Pyramid Sound Studios, and to join  the ranks of bands from the "golden age" of thrash metal who used Pyramid in the 80's and 90's (Anthrax, S.O.D., Overkill, M.O.D., Testament, and Nuclear Assault).  

With the demo under their belt and currently for sale, Lux Carentes has their sights set on recording a full length album in 2011.  Until then, they can be seen in and around the Ithaca, NY area and their live show is always captivating and enthralling.  Front man Brian Dayhart becomes frenzied, demented, and ensorcelled, throwing dark brutality, depression, and mayhem at the audience in the form of what can only be described as the destructive, cultish, frenetic performance art of the possessed.  Lux Carentes are not to be missed!


"Sans illumination, barren of the fire within. detached Self drifting into a myriad of half formed possibilities.

The darkened scarlet brings Self back to Self, aware and stained by the flight, unable to retain form.

A waxen glare reflects the pallor of flesh as a sound of despair heralds a release of from this torment.

And in the desperate beauty of this exalted conjunction, darkness fades and the dead begin to march." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lux+Carentes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.