Formed in the late 1990s, Lycanthia are a 6-piece gothic/death doom metal band from Sydney, Australia. Their music can be described as dark, aggressive and emotional soundscapes fused with classical and rock elements. Consisting of grim male and dual female vocals, violins, keyboards, guitars and drums, Lycanthia continues the sound  found in the early "golden age" works of classic gothic doom bands Theatre of Tragedy, Tristania, My Dying Bride, and The Sins of thy Beloved, while also adding more aggressive and traditional-doom influences. Unique to the sound of Lycanthia is the use of duel female vocals provided by violinist Vanessa Black, and keyboardist Megan Robins, which is contrasted by the powerful male vocals from bassist Lee Tassaker.

The popularity of Lycanthia's live shows, along with their self titled demo, established the band in the Australian Metal underground. Their first full-length album "Myriad", saw them develop their musical style with reater maturity, creativity and originality. Their next release, an EP titled "Within The Walls", further cemented their place as pioneers of their genre. The song "Lost" peaked at #11 on the 'triple j' Australian Metal Charts within the first week of release.

Working closely without restrictions, Lycanthia have sculpted their reactions to existence and the world into a musical expression of harsh, bleak reality. Lycanthia's latest album "Oligarchy", mastered by Jens Bogren at Fascination Street Studios (Opeth, Katatonia), has already received many positive reviews and recognition in underground circles around the world. The album is available to order directly from the band from Lycathia's official website. Hypnotic Dirge Records is planning a re-release of the album in digipak format in early 2013.

The success of Lycanthia has continued and grown with regular radio airplay and numerous live performances around Australia alongside local and international acts at Metal venues and festivals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lycanthia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.