Lycus is a funeral doom metal band formed in 2008 near Sacramento, CA, USA. 2009 witnessed several live performances, the self-release of a two song demo, and a multitude of line-up changes. Lycus disbanded in late 2009. In 2011 guitarist/vocalist Jackson Heath and drummer/vocalist Trevor DeSchryver relocated to the San Francisco bay area and recorded Demo MMXI. Their demo immediately garnered the attention of Graceless Recordings (run by Mike Meacham of Loss) with a limited run of 200 cassettes. In January 2012, the demo was remastered and released on vinyl through San Francisco based Flenser Records

The band issued their debut full-length, Tempest, in July 2013 on 20 Buck Spin to extensive critical acclaim. Steel For Brains declared, “In a year already brimming with absolutely groundbreaking work from the heavy music realm, Tempest places itself easily among the elite with its unbridled gloom and refusal to dig a grave of sound the same old way.” In its 7.9 review of the record, Pitchfork said, “Lycus’s early stages of grief have matured into dignified resignation and graceful acceptance.” The album ended up at #18 on Decibel’s Top 40 Albums of 2013. That reception was enough to catch the attention of Relapse Records, who signed them in January 2015. 

After spending the spring of 2015 in the studio, Lycus is now preparing to release Chasms, the highly anticipated follow-up to Tempest. Due out January 15th, 2016, Chasms is an intensely powerful and emotive masterpiece of funeral doom metal. Recorded at Atomic Garden Studios with producer Jack Shirley and featuring a surreal cover painting by Paolo Girardi, Chasms contains four immense tracks of deep, unbridled gloom. Complete with diverse vocal arrangements, atmospheric cello accompaniments, and enormous compositions, Lycus has created a mournfully expressive work of timeless doom.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lycus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.