Endurance, Conviction and Dedication...... 
These qualities are why Chicago’s own Lydian Sea is still around after 15 years, creating music that has persevered through the ever-changing music scene. Lydian Sea was one of the first bands labelled “Progressive Melodic Metal” when they formed back in 1990. Huge harmonies simmering over complex rhythm guitars became a staple of this bands trademark. The bass and drums just as critical a component, creates the other dimension of Lydian Sea’s unique sound. Keyboards are also integrated in Lydian Sea’s music, as some would call them the “secret ingredient”, balancing out the heavy side of Lydian Sea. Lastly, the lyrical writing is just as important as every other part of this band. Always uplifting, Lydian Sea’s lyrics are thoughtful, insightful and truly genuine. Never motivated by money, greed or conforming to the masses, Lydian Sea has always and will always do it their way. This unwavering faith in what they believe in has earned them a huge underground following. Current members include Mike Szot on Bass whose main influence is Geddy Lee and Steve Harris. Though the quietest member in the band is the polar opposite on stage when he plays. Mike McCarron on Drums and backing vocals who is as technically talented as they come. He has played on Shrapnel Records and now Lion Music recording artist, guitarist extraordinaire, George Bellas’s instrumental CD’s. Mike is an incredible drummer live as well who plays with as much passion and intensity as Peart, Donati, and Portnoy combined. Guaranteed! Danny McCartney on Lead Vocals. Always making sure everyone is having a good time on stage and especially off. Has brought a different dimension to Lydian Sea since being added to the line-up for the Architect of Humanity CD. Often compared to Ray Alder, and Doug Pinnick, combined with his own favorites including Glen Hughes, Rik Emmett and John Cowan puts Danny in pretty damn good company. Ron Gonzalez on everything, the brain trust of Lydian Sea and one of the most modest and underrated lead guitarists out there. Ron also sang lead vocals on the three prior Lydian Sea releases. 
He handles all keyboard sampling and background vocals. Ron does most of all the music writing in the band. An incredible ear for melodies, Ron plays with a passion that puts him in a league of his own. His main influences are Lynch, Sykes, Schon, and Lukather. Ron’s constant striving for perfection 
makes his Lead guitar playing unforgettable from the first note to the very last. 

Discography: 


Lydian Sea (2008), 

Architect of Humanity (2008), 

Portraits Of Thought (1992, 2008), 

Invisible Reign (1995, 2008) 

Line-Up 


• Ron Gonzalez (Guitar/keys) 

• Danny McCartney (Vocals) 

• Mike Szot (Bass) 

• Mike McCarron (Drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lydian+Sea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.