There are 3 bands with the name Lynchpin.

1. Originally formed in 1995, the first band named Lynchpin was a five-piece from Rhode Island, which, according to Rhapsody, played "freaked-out emo songs" that "twitch and flail from the sonic intensity of their guitar-and-drum convergence. Full of pain and wallowing, the vocalist unleashes total catharsis."  The album featured on last.fm, "Twenty Years, Seven Months, and Twenty-Seven Days", was recorded and released by this Lynchpin in 1998.

2. An Australian band based in Melbourne. They released two albums of mature power-pop in the same vein of fellow Australia/NZ bands like Crowded House or Icecream Hands in 2001 and 2003.

3. An English band formed in early 2001, are a 5 piece metal band currently creating quite a stir in the UK metal scene. The picture and videos featured on last.fm are of this Lynchpin. The York based outfit's history as a band spans over five years, throughout this time building up a solid and loyal fanbase due to their amazing live show, built form a mixture of frenetic energy and musical creativity. Credits include taking the crown as the "Bradford Rio Battle Of The Bands" Winners in 2004, Second overall in Wharfedale's National Adopt A Band in 2005, and much more. Lynchpin have over 250 live shows under their belt, having supported such acts as Sikth, Funeral For A Friend, Fony, The Kills and many more. With CD sales already in the thousands for thier self funded ep's, Lynchpin signed to Hangmans Joke Recordings in 2005 and their debut CD on the label, produced by Chris Tsangarides (Black Sabbath, judas Priest, Less Than Jake) and Russ Russell (Sikth, Napalm Death, The Wildhearts), is due for release in June 2006.

This is a band determined to make an impact on the UK Metal Scene in 2006
If you haven't already heard of Lynchpin... You soon will.

"Theres Something Instantly Likeable About This Band"
- Gigs Unlimited

"Superstardom Is Just Around The Corner For This York Based 5 Piece"
- Play Music Magazine

"They Put On An Amazing Live Show Filled With Energy + Vigour"
- Alive.co.uk

"They Are Totally Committed And Determined To Succeed"
- BBC North Yorkshire Music <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lynchpin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.