Lyonite is a metal band from the Northern Netherlands emphasizing the melodic part, but which is also heavily rocking!

Lyonite currently consists of the following members:


Claudia Edwards van Muijen - Vocals

Mathijs Westra - Drums

Ale Strooisma - Bass

Wolf van Weezel - Guitar & Backing Vocals

Maikel Pang Atjok - Keyboard & Backing Vocals


For full biography click below.


Biography

In October 2006 a school band was formed. The band didn't work out, because the members' musical tastes were too different. Mathijs Westra (drums), Maikel Pang Atjok (keys) and Jornt Wagenaar (guitar) wanted to continue making music with each other and so decided to form a new group, switching from poprock to a more symphonic and progressive metal direction.

Now they had to search for a singer and a bass player. Quickly Ale Strooisma was found willing to play bass in the band. His musical taste and playing style fitted nicely within the band. The name Lyonite was chosen pretty soon after he joined up with them. The first vocalist of the band was Anke van Dijk, who also happend to have a taste for songwriting. However after working together for a while it became cleat that the direction in which the band was heading musically wasn't her thing. After realizing that the search for a vocalist continued. They played without vocals for a few months when Claudia Edwards van Muijen was attracted to the band. She seemed more then ready to be the bands front-woman and was accepted not just for her looks, but for her amazing voice as well.

After working hard on their music they played a few gigs, getting a lot of positive reactions. Some of the bandmembers still felt something was missing though, and as if prearranged another guitarist came on their path. Wolf van Weezel, who played with Maikel and Claudia in a previous band had been showing interest in Lyonite, and after hearing him play it all became clear. He was the last piece of the puzzle.

Yet after playing with a formation of six people for a while, the band got a little more serious and soon realized that something still wasn't right. As the group grew closer and closer to eachother it was very hard to make the decision, but after a long and hard discussion they decided to part ways with their first guitarplayer, Jornt Wagenaar. Yet no hard feelings were felt from either side.

Now a band of five, Lyonite is perfecting its sound and getting ready to rock as hard as ever! Keep checking this page to know when they are rocking on stage again. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Lyonite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.