Scathing, pulsing, louder than hell, M-16's music is at times bombastic and scalding yet poetic in style and nature. Unapologetic lyrics sung entirely in Spanish, scream and whisper tales of mortal disillusion, political terror, and the chaos of modern times. A band that firmly believes in substance over style, M-16 is all the angst and frustration of real people channeled through guitars, drums and bass.

In 2001 the band release a video for their track “La Sangre Que Corre En Mis Venas” shot by veteran director David Capurso. The full-length album “Canciones Escritas En El Exilio” soon followed, along with many outings to support the release including tours in Puerto Rico (with VICTIMAS DEL DR CEREBRO), Santo Domingo, and in Houston and Dallas opening for LOS ANGELES DEL INFIERNO.

The song "¿Por Qué No Morir?" was featured in the 2003 film "Particles of Truth"
http://www.particlesoftruth.com/music.html

"La Sangre Que Corre En Mis Venas" was featured on the Asi Suena Emergente 2 de 6, 2005 compilation. 

"Raza" was featured in the Boom Magazine promotional CD compilation for the issue of February/March 2006.

"¿Por Qué No Morir?" was featured in the 2006 film "You Tell Me"
http://www.leaveblank.com/ytm/soundtrack.html

On August 13th, M-16 performed at the 2006 “LOCOBAZOOKA” music festival at the Tweeter Center for the Performing Arts in Mansfield, MA where ALICE IN CHAINS headlined.

In 2007 the band was invited to perform at the DC Latin Rock Fest, The NYC Horror Film Festival, at a fundraiser for the Comic Book Legal Defense Fund, on FEARLESS MUSIC TV, and to Los Angeles where they performed at the PICO RIVERA SPORTS ARENA for ARKA FEST 2007.

In 2008 the band performs at various GHETTO METAL events, headlines the METAL/HARDCORE/PUNK/FEST, and spends time in the studio tracking their upcoming album.

2009 sees the band performing on the FOX channel's FEARLESS TV program, exposing the group to a large audience of music fans who vote M-16 the best band of the episode. They create and headline the 
"VETREANS of the UNDERGROUND" concert in Brooklyn, as well as organize and headline in LAMC's (Latin Alternative Music Conference) first ever Heavy Metal Showcase, featuring bands hand picked by Vocalist Daniel Estrella. The latest album "La Raiz de Todo Poder" is released in August by Mother West Records to much critical acclaim. The group also wins the "Best Metal Band of 2009" award from VOLTAJE magazine.

The song "El Camino" from the album "La Raiz de Todo Poder" is featured in the episode "I'm Ex-Amish" of the popular MTV program, "True Life".

On April 11th 2010, the band realizes the dream of opening for Death Metal Legends BRUJERIA at NYC's iconic Webster Hall. M-16 also shares the stage with Ecuador's legendary progressive outfit, SAL Y MILETO as well as Iraqi Metal masters, ACCRASIACAUDA (from the documentary "Heavy Metal in Baghdad").

Currently the band is composed of original member Daniel Estrella,on bass/vocals, guitarist/bacing vocals Marcos Medina and drummer James Allen dominating their own musical demons! They are playing local shows and working on the next record. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/M-16">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.