M.A.D.(the band got the name by the song M.A.D. from first Napalm Death album Scum).
Our story begins back in 1993.In Sonta(near Apatin),the band was wormed and start to practice very hard.Back then our favorite bands were S.O.D. and D.R.I…Our first live show in front of full concert hall was in summer 1993 and since then and until today we live for music.

After this event we had few small gigs,until the winter 1994 when the band broke up,but me(Blaza)stayed to get together new band members.1994 was remembered by few club gigs in Sonta,and new line up showed potential for further work.

In summer 1995 second line up had big success,and the band was accepted by metal fans as really good deathrash band.But only third line up could be considered as serious band.The band continued to work in old school metal stile.

1996 was good year for the band,we played many gigs,and we started appearing in Yugoslavian and foreign fanzines,and we made many friendships.

1997 band made important decision to go in studio MATRIX,and in August 1997 record the debut demo.Material got good critics in many fanzines and at many metal fans.Many people compare us with Gorefeast and Benediction, probably because of really brutal vocal.

But demo material got in to the wrong hands,to people who called them selves publishers so the band promotion went very bad and band was forced to do the self release of first debut demo “Prisoner of the Damned”.You can still odder demo for the 3DM(postage and packing included).

1998 band was practicing new material and band was on two compilations.
First one is called :”Kompilacija za Decu bez roditelja “(Benefit compilation for children with out parents) which was published by Sombor’s underground fans.On this compilation you can find our two songs “Tamnica” and “TheBeggar” this compilation was distributed also in Makdonija so our friends done the right thing and we are really grateful to them.Unfortunate this compilation is no longer in sales but if anybody is interested can send me the blank tape and I will record it to him.
But M.A.D. also appeared on another compilation : “Underground metal compilation”.
On this compilation there are many metal bands from ex Yugoslavia.

In year 1999 there were big changes in the band,and from now there is only 3 of us(before there were 4 band members guitar,vocal,drums,and bass).Band also changed name in to “GOYA” and start playing completely new songs.In November/December 1999 began first success of band(we had two gigs) and band was well accepted from the metal fans.

Now Blaza was guitar/vocal,Toma drums and Misko bass.The M.A.D. demo was played on several music stations(on radio show :”High Voltage” radio 021, www.radio021.co.yu )

In year 2000,band could be found on biggest ever made metal compilation Scream Until you like it http://www.rockexpress.org/rexrecords/scream.html that was released by rock express www.rockexpress.org

The in June 2000 Misko self the band and Ivan came and replace him.
In period Jul-October band had many successful and few bad gigs.
The best gig was in Kikinda and Ada where many metal fans gathered to support many YU underground metal bands along with GOYA.Also GOYA got positive critics in metal fanzines from all over Yugoslavia.


The bands current line up:
Blaza -vocal/guitar
Karci -bass/back up scream vocal
Toma -drums/back up vocal
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/M.A.D:+Goya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.