1. M.I.L.K is a soul collective, from Copenhagen. Led by vocalist Emil Wilk, M.I.L.K could be called a solo endeavour, but it's been shaped in the light of collaborations since it started last summer. 

Amongst the collaborators you’ll find Mads Damsgaard Kristiansen from Reptile Youth, and Simon Torp Littauer who also worked with MØ, First Hate, Kill J and Soleima. 

The songwriting of M.I.L.K. harks back to the time of 70s soul pioneers such as Curtis Mayfield and Sly Stone, but most certainly hints at more modern electronic acts such as Jungle, Rhye or Blood Orange when it comes to production and overall expression.

https://soundcloud.com/m-i-l-k-4eva

2. M.I.L.K. (also simply MILK) is a 4-member group made of members Hyun Jin, Jae Young, Bomi, and Yumi. 

The group's name is an acronym standing for Made In Lovely Kin. However, this seems to be an Engrish error -- they were probably aiming for the word "loving" rather than "lovely." 

Prior to the formation of MILK, three out of the four members had previously done work with SM Entertainment. Jae Young, Bomi, and Yumi had all appeared in music videos of SM Entertainment artists. Out of those three, Bomi had done the most and had already made a name for herself amongst the fanbase for her music video appearances. 

MILK was produced by H.O.T's Moon Hee Jun. In late 2001, they released their first album under BM Entertainment. However, because they were promoted so much by SM Entertainment, even participating in the SM Town seasonal albums, most fans considered them an unofficial part of SM. 

After promotion of their first album ended, the group continued to do work with the rest of SM Town in their seasonal albums, but by summer 2003, the only one appearing from the group was Hyun Jin. Rumors and speculation flew about the status of the group, some reporting that a second album was on the way and some saying that the group had broken up. With no official news from the company and with their peer groups, BlackBeat, Shinvi, and Isak N Jiyeon in similar states of limbo, it was difficult to determine whether or not the group was dead for sure. However when the news was announced in 2004 that Yumi had signed with a different company, even the most devoted fans had to admit that the group would most likely not return. 

Currently, Hyun Jin, Jae Young (now going by the name of Hee Bon), and Bomi are still signed with SM Entertainment. Yumi is with SUM Entertainment.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/M.I.L.K.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.