m.o.v.e (formerly known as move) was a 3-member Japanese musical group. The group consists of yuri (益田祐里, Masuda Yuri, vocalist), motsu (瀬川素公, Segawa Mototaka, rapper) and t-kimura (木村貴志, Kimura Takashi, producer).

In 1996, after the break up of t-kimura's previous project Favorite Blue, he formed the band move and, by 1997, they released their first single ROCK IT DOWN. They however truly achieved fame when their followup single, around the world, was used as the opening theme for the anime Initial D (頭文字D). In 2005, the group changed their name by adding abbreviation marks between letters and are were still signed with the avex tune recording label.

On December 2, 2008, t-kimura stated on m.o.v.e’s official web site that he would focus more on production, and less on performing. On April 10, 2009, m.o.v.e performed with DJ T-Tashiro during an anime convention, Kamikazecon II, in Houston, Texas; the group anounced that t-kimura would no longer perform on-stage. 

In November 2009, it was anounced that yuri was pregnant and would be getting married, thus taking a hiatus from the band for onstage performances. While m.o.v.e recorded two new albums in 2010, Dream Again and anim.o.v.e 02, the band didn't show any other activity (though motsu made guest appearances in many shows, lives and musical collaborations) until yuri went back on stage on October 2010.

m.o.v.e is perhaps best known for the unique style with which they blend rock, rap, electronica, metal and many other genres into their music. m.o.v.e are also well-known for their many contributions as opening and ending themes to the Initial D (頭文字D) series. These include around the world, Rage your dream, BREAK IN2 THE NITE, Blazin' Beat, Gamble Rumble, DOGFIGHT and Noizy Tribe. The also provided the opening theme for the anime series Ikkitousen (一騎当千) with their song Drivin' Through the Night as well as the ending theme for the anime Final Fantasy Unlimited, Romancing Train, and the ending credits for KOEI's Dynasty Warriors 2 (真・三國無双, Shin Sangokumusou), Can't Quit This!!!! ～KNOCK'EM OUT～ (SH FUNK MIX).

On December 7 2012, the band announced that, after 15 years, they would break up. A last Best of album called "Best Moves ~and moves goes on~", scheduled to be released on Feb. 17 2013, and a last show in March 2013 are left behind as a goodbye to the fans. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/m.o.v.e">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.