1) M.O.D. (Method of Destruction) was a hardcore / thrash band formed in 1986 by vocalist Billy Milano after the disbandment of crossover pioneers S.O.D. Their first album, ."U.S.A. For M.O.D.", was produced by S.O.D./Anthrax guitar player Scott Ian. The intended irony of M.O.D.'s lyrics and the music is a pattern that Milano and company follow in an effort to make the music humorous, entertaining and also a critical to the power, the system and money. In this regard, the band followed in the footsteps of S.O.D., with intentionally politically incorrect, humorous lyrics. Nonetheless, some felt they honestly became increasingly right-wing. Milano's later lyrical content concentrates more on making fun of left-wing extremists such as Michael Moore for his weight and Rage Against The Machine for making money in the music business.

2) The M.O.D. (MaryHell Oxygen Destroyer) are an italian duo ( MARYHELL and ANGIE VHELENA). They combine ebm sonority and the experimental electronic. Their sound is full of melodies and it is enriched with a sweet singing. At the same time they are aggressive, for giving the correct emphasis to the the lyrics of the songs.
On 2009, they self-produce their first demo " Entzweit Gesicht ", (with three unpublished songs and one cover of the english band Athamay ), that is receiving positive reviews from various specialized webzines and that they continue to promote through radio and fanzine interviews. Some of the tracks released in the demo have been inserted in different online compilations.
Recently, they have collaborated for a book on tape entitled "Franklin City" of CA Hobson, composing the song "Freaks" expressly for that project, that has been published and distributed in the United States.
They win the “ Revelation Band” award at GBGB Rock Contest 2011.
2nd at the regional final of the Gothic Room Contest 2011, they have opened the No More live , the german band from Kiel that in 1981 played "Suicide Commando", an international underground hit.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/M.O.D.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.