1. MAAT is an egyptian themed Death Metal band from Berlin, Germany. They are heavily influenced by bands such as Nile, Behemoth and Morbid Angel. MAAT released an EP called 'Born In Sand' in 2010 and their first full length album 'As We Create The Hope From Above' in 2014.

Driven by their strong affinity to Egyptian mythology and Heavy Music, Felix and Franko founded “Maat” in 2009, a band that combines ancient melodic motives with the raw power of Death Metal.

In 2010 the band found its drummer in the person of Hendrik. With the arrival of Kris, Maat was granted its deep growling voice; while Friedel’s bass playing completed the band’s formation.

Maat began working on their debut EP; within a short time the band entered the studio to record their first four tracks …and by the end of October 2010 “Born In Sand” saw the light of day.

After touring a few months, Friedel departed from the band and Felix chose to focus entirely on his acoustic music project.

In 2011 Alex replaced Felix as guitarist bringing a lot of new inspiration into the band. Maat became complete again with the advent of its new bass player No-L, whose skills and personality matched perfectly with the rest of the band.

In its present line-up Maat already performed several devastating gigs.

2. MAAT is the 90's alter ego of Dörte Marth (aka Xyramat), enigmatic one-woman-project mutated from her early 80's experiments in German group Devantgarde, as vocalist and synthesizer player.
 
Project exploring surrealistic soundscapes and is known for very own electro-acoustic signature, deep sound constructions and warped musique concrète. Often compared to Asmus Tietchens and Anne Gillis experiments.

- (1992) "Surabaya Johnny" from compilation - Die Ohren des Kaiser Hirohito [CD, Dragnet Records]
- (1993) Konstruktionen [LP, Dom Elchklang]
- (1993) Sie [CD, Dragnet Records]
- (1996) Yacikaa [CD, Drag & Drop Industrial]


3. Czech hip hop crew = L.D. a Fosco se poznali někdy v roce 2004. Rok 2005 přinesl jak sólové album Fosco Alma - Zpověď & Fikce a hned po tom, co se rok přehoupl na 2006 vyšla sólová deska L.D.ho s názvem Swipe03 - Talent. V červnu se tihle dva talentování lidé sešli a řekli si, že by měli začít spolupracovat. Vznikl projekt MAAT. Členové tedy jsou Fosco Alma, L.D. a JSM. Na majku můžete slyšet Fosca a L.D.ho, za gramcema alkoholika se jménem JSM. O produkci se stará jak Fosco tak JSM. Na podzim byla hotová deska MAAT - Recyklace, která byla signálem, že se tu děje něco neobvyklého. Momentálně pracují na druhé desce která nese název MAAT - Kandidátí existence a objeví se na ní snad spousta hostů. Závěrem bych řekl, že MAAT není vhodné pro děti lesního věku a pro slabé povahy. MAAT, VŠE NA CO SI VZPOMENETE!

4.  An experimental metal band from Columbia, South Carolina founded in 2006.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.