Mac Quayle is a soundtrack composer. He's also a member of HQ2 and Rise Robots Rise.

Audiences worldwide have been captivated by the unique musical stylings of Emmy-winning and Grammy-nominated composer, Mac Quayle. Mac recently scored Ryan Murphy's series, FX's "Feud: Bette and Joan," starring Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon.

Mac recently won an Emmy for his score for USA Network's Golden Globe-winning suspense-thriller "Mr. Robot," starring Christian Slater and Rami Malek. Mac also composed FX's Emmy-winning "The People v. O.J. Simpson," starring John Travolta, Sarah Paulson and Cuba Gooding Jr., which was celebrated by critics and audiences alike.

He recently composed FX's hit series "American Horror Story: Roanoke," starring Kathy Bates and Angela Bassett, as well as previous seasons including "American Horror Story: Freak Show," for which Mac received an Emmy nomination, and "American Horror Story: Hotel," starring Lady Gaga and Matt Bomer. Quayle also scores Fox's "Scream Queens," starring Emma Roberts and Jamie Lee Curtis.

In addition to Mac's television work, he has also composed music for a diverse list of feature films and documentaries. His music for the documentary "Autism in Love" premiered at the 2015 Tribeca Film Festival, and indie thriller "LA Slasher," starring Mischa Barton premiered at the New York City International Film Festival.

Mac's music as an additional composer for Cliff Martinez can also be heard in HBO's Emmy- winning "The Normal Heart," Film District's Critic's Choice Award-winning "Drive," Warner Bros.' "Contagion" and A24's "Spring Breakers." In 2013, Mac was chosen as one of only six composers to participate in Sundance's Music and Sound Design Lab at Skywalker Ranch.

Quayle has written music for over 40 films and television shows, and has accumulated a long list of credits as a music producer, dance re-mixer and multi-instrumentalist. Mac has worked on over 300 releases, 40 #1 Billboard Dance hits, and earned a Grammy nomination for producing Donna Summer's "I Will Go with You." Quayle has been awarded numerous Gold and Platinum records, as well as worked with some of the biggest names in the music business. Mac created music for Madonna, Whitney Houston, Depeche Mode, Britney Spears, Elvis Presley, Annie Lennox, New Order, Beyonce and Sting, to name a few.

When asked about his career highlights, Mac responded, "I have been very fortunate to work with so many talented people over the years. However, there is one special moment that stands out for me: Playing ping pong with Peter Gabriel at Real World Studios."

Mac lives, works and plays ping pong in the mountains near Los Angeles. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mac+Quayle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.