1) Macabre is an American death metal band from Chicago, Illinois. Formed in 1985, they blend thrash metal, death metal and grindcore (sometimes with nursery rhymes and folk melodies) to form their own unique style dubbed murder metal. Lyrically, they have a strong focus on serial killers, mass murderers and a touch of sick gore humor. Most lyrics are based upon true stories and are about real infamous personalities. The content of the lyrics is historically accurate, and band members actually have known and met with convicted serial killers such as John Wayne Gacy on a personal level. They also have a side project called the Macabre Minstrels that play acoustic camp fire songs. Their current label is Decomposed Records. The band has kept it's original three-piece lineup since their formation; guitarist & lead vocalist Corporate Death (Lance Lencioni), bassist & vocalist Nefarious (Charles Lescewicz) and drummer Dennis the Menace (Dennis Ritchie).

Macabre's music was strongly influenced by U.S. and U.K. hardcore, grindcore, and death metal acts, ranging from The Accüsed and Cryptic Slaughter to Possessed and Napalm Death. Macabre's sickening sense of humor alienated casual metal listeners. However, it helped to gain a small but strong cult status among fans.

2) 18 Visions had a couple of names before it got finalized. The first name was DANTE, taken from a song by the Seattle band Dead Skin Mask, Dante’s Inferno. The band may or not have played a show under this moniker, but some people remember seeing it on at least one flyer. After that, the band changed it’s name to Macabre (pronounced MAC-a-bree by the HB 9 Balls).

The lineup of the band on the demo was James Hart on vocals, Ken Floyd on drums, Dave Peters on guitar, and Billy Sisler on bass.

3) Short-lived hard rock/proto-metal band from Arlington, VA, United States. Formed in 1970 and released a single in 1972: Be Forewarned / Lazy Lady. A recording titled Rehearsal '72 was also released.
The band's name was sometimes misspelled as "Macbre".
The band re-formed as the Early Doom Metal band Pentagram.  


4) Macabre is a solo project from Ali (Alice Ronzini), bass player of the band J.C. Satàn and singer of the band La Secte du Futur.
Macabre was born in a room in the city of Bordeaux and is the result of depression, love, violence, black metal and distorted sounds. 
With the collaboration of Pousse Mort, the one and only other member of the band, she wrote the first Demo and recorded it deliberately using lo-fi sound.
At this time Macabre is working on the second Demo and the creation of the first self-titled LP, as a future project. It will contain re-recorded songs from two demos.
At the moment Macabre doesn't perform and remains a misanthrope project.

5)  Macabre is a punk band from Santa Ana, California.
Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Macabre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.