1) MACE (alias of Simone Benussi) is an italian Hip-Hop/EDM producer from Milan. Grounded in hip-hop and electronic music, MACE (alias of Simone Benussi) has applied his voracious musical obsessions over the years in numerous collaborations and a sonic palette of releases. The Milan-based producer and DJ formed his first artistic project, La Crème, in partnership with his childhood friend Jack the Smoker, with whom he released the rap album ‘L’Alba’ in 2003.

MACE kept busy as a DJ and founder of the collective RESET! – one of the best events in Milan – with which he published several singles and EPs. Combining his talent as a beatmaker and DJ, as well as his budding ability as a producer, MACE signed with Island Records in 2020 and released a first single ‘Ragazzi della Nebbia’ featuring FSK Satellite and Irama.

In early 2021, he embarked on his official debut album, ‘OBE’ (an acronym of Out of Body Experience), for which he enlisted artists ranging from the Italian rapper Salmo (‘La Canzone Nostra’ is the first track that stood out) to the contemporary soul/jazz artist Venerus.

MACE’s thing is building instrumental forms of rap genres and blending them with drum patterns and basslines, and this time he excels. What makes him shine out is his ability to explore music freely and playfully (listen to ‘Hallucination’ and you’ll get it), just as he explores the world as a traveler, and this is evident in ‘OBE’.

Throw in the fact that he uses actual musicians as well as samples, and you have a legit work of original music that still capitalizes on MACE’s deft beat and melody mixing skills. Also, there’s a real restlessness to his output as well as solid ideas that make ‘OBE’ clearly a producer’s album. MACE is unshackled and he’s at his best when he embraces different sounds and applies himself to absolute freedom.

2) MACE, the Seattle area Thrash band that debuted as a trio on the 'Metal Massacre V' album and Northwest Metalfest. MACE at that time, contributing the track 'Marching Saprophytes', comprised of lead vocalist and drummer Vence Le Rose, guitarist Dave Hillis and bassist Kirk Verhey. Verhey would take over the lead vocal position in time for 1985's debut 'Process Of Elimination'. Shane White departed before the second album and MACE drafted drummer David Kopler. MACE shared the bill with a number of acts including SLAYER, ANTHRAX, METAL CHURCH, The CIRCLE JERKS and Seattle heavyweights, The ACCUSED. Known for their live shows that would on occasion, lead to borderline riots, their influence is still felt today even as far away as Germany and Japan.

UPDATE on MACE:
Legendary co-founders of thrash metal Mace are back!

After a brief, 23 year vacation from the Thrash scene, the guys have decided to lace up the combat boots for battle one more time. These guys shared the stage with the biggest thrash bands of the mid 80's including Slayer, Anthrax, Death Angel, Metal Church, The Circle Jerks, The Accused and many more.

Last week the band quietly leaked the info that they were getting back together and from the Northwest, they fired a shot that could heard around the world. Bands, promoters and even record labels, some as far away as Germany started talking about Mace. There is a huge amount of excitement in the Mace camp and these guys are locked in with laser focus and ready to melt some faces, just like they did over 2 decades ago.
For added excitement, Tommy Niemeyer from The Accused made the new Mace logo...he doesn't do that for just anyone and it kicks ass!

Of course everyone knows Mace guitarist Dave Hillis went on to work on some of the biggest albums in rock history as a producer. (Pearl Jam "10", Alice In Chains "Dirt"...etc) but Mace was always in the back of his mind. Says Hillis,  "I always wanted to remix the old songs, and when I opened my own studio I had to do it, and it was so much fun that we thought we would try a new song and that was so much fun that we said why not teach these young kids how it was done back in the day".  He knew when the time was right he was going to re-visit the thrash scene that him and his band helped form and solidify back in the 80's. In fact, Death Angel was recently on VH1's Metal Revolution and lead singer Mark Osegueda was wearing a Mace T-Shirt! They were also the first band ever to be metal and make Maximum Rock and Rolls playlist.

Mace has just confirmed some killer shows and will announce those soon. Till then,  Mace in your Face!!!

3)  Mace are an hardcore punk band from Chicago, Illinois.    https://macehc.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.