There are numerous artists who have used the name Machine, including:

1) A disco/funk group of late 70's/early 80's, biggest hit being "There But For the Grace of God Go I".  They were rare in that their disco hit had relevant social commentary, unlike those of their contemporaries.

2) Hakuei (vocals) and Kiyoshi's (guitar) duo. Started in 1999. Hakuei's also PENICILLIN's vocalist and has a solo career, Kiyoshi has been in bands like Media Youth and Spread Beaver, as well as on a solo career. 

3) Dutch prog rock band Machine was a follow up from The Swinging Soul Machine. With the single "Lonesome Tree" Machine had a hit. This band existed in 1970/1971. Paul Vink later in the 70's played in several succesful bands, amoung wich Livin' Blues, Finch and Limousine.

Line-up:
Francois Content: flute, trumpet
Hans Sel: guitar
Jaap Schoonhoven: guitar
Jan Bliek: drums
Jan Warby: bassguitar
John Caljouw: vocal
Maarten Bekkers: flute, clarinet, saxophone
Paul Vink: keyboards
Wim Warby: flute, saxophone, vocal
Mac Sell: guitar

4) IDM / Experimental group (Chase Gorman & Jonathan Christ) with a blend of music created by two artists using analog hardware. One, controlling the drum machine and rythm synth/effects, while the other plays keyboard, xylophone, and samples. No computer editing-straight from equipment to cd besides arrangement.

5) Funk/Prog/Metal trio out of Ann Arbor, Michigan. Brothers AJ Sapala and Elliot Sapala take the bass and drums respectively, with Kastor Podgorski on lead guitar. They have a gloomy, instrumental, jam-based sound.

6) The duo of Curtis and Connor, who incorporate synthesizer-like sounds into their slow-paced groove tracks for an interesting sound. 

7) UK techno artists Luke Slater and Alan Sage used the name Machine for one of their many joint projects, releasing a 12" in 1993 on the Jelly Jam label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Machine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.