Machinae Supremacy is a metal band from Luleå, Sweden. Their musical style is based on the use of the Sidstation synthesizer, which incorporates the SID (Sound Interface Device) of the Commodore 64 home computer. The retro-electronic sound is blended with a metal sound to produce a special kind of "SID-metal" . Their album Redeemer (released March 18th, 2006 as an 'Underground Edition'), was described by the band in an interview as everything DXM (Deus Ex Machinae, the debut album) wasn't. It was re-released on November 8th, 2006 as a remixed version under Spinefarm Records.

On february 13th, 2008, the CD Overworld was released worldwide. It was the second CD released through Spinefarm and consists of 12 tracks, including one cover (''Gimme More'' by Britney Spears). Compared to Deus Ex Machinae (MbD Records, a now defunct label) and Redeemer (Spinefarm), Overworld is a blend between the energetic SID as heard on DXM and the raw sound of Redeemer. Later in 2008 the song ''Overworld'' was featured in a hockey-commercial on the Swedish television. Two songs, ''Bionic Commando Main Theme'' and ''Area 88'' were recorded and released on the band's MySpace as well as on the official Bionic Commando (2009 video game). The ''Bionic Commando Main Theme'' was also featured in a promotional video.

Bionic Commando isn't the first game Machinae Supremacy got involved with. In 2004 they released the well-received and praised 28 track Jets'n'Guns Official Soundtrack, leveling up this side scrolling shooter. The album can be downloaded from their website.

The band released their fourth studio album, A View from the End of the World, on 3 November 2010. The video for the song "Force Feedback" was later released in 2011.

The fifth studio album, Rise of a Digital Nation, was released on 19 October 2012. It was featured on the controversial Swedish file-sharing website The Pirate Bay, leading to a significant increase in the band's online profile.

On 14 March 2014, vocalist Robert Stjärnström announced in the Machinae Supremacy fan Facebook group "MachinaeTribe" that "release [of the new album] won't be until August." The new album, titled Phantom Shadow, was released on 22 August 2014.

Machinae Supremacy has already made their place in history by being one of the first bands to embrace and utilize the Internet and file sharing to gain a huge fanbase without ever having signed a record contract, received airplay or any sponsored promotion. They've reached out to all corners of the world and today their site receives roughly 100,000 song downloads every month.

Machinae Supremacy was formed in summer 2000 by Robert Stjärnström, Kahl Hellmer and Jonas Rörling. The name of the band had existed even before this, but it was only a few months later the band really found the path they wanted to go. Andreas Gerdin, a long time friend of Jonas, joined on keyboards and Tobbe joined on drums. When the band parted with Tobbe in early 2002, Tomas Nilsén, old band-pal with Robert, took his place. When Kahl left for Uppsala in 2005, Johan Palovaara replaced him on bass. Palovaara was replaced by Johan Hedlund in 2007. After signing the Spinefarm deal, Andreas left the keyboards and started playing second guitar. Currently all live synthesizers come from a backing track. The latest change in line-up came about by Tomas leaving the band after 7 years of "pure win and awesome".

Official homepage: http://www.machinaesupremacy.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Machinae+Supremacy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.