Made Out of Babies was a band from New York, NY, United States, formed in 2004.
As their playfully gruesome name suggests, Made Out of Babies are not a demure or delicate band, but a vehicle of cathartic assault; as evocative as The Jesus Lizard, as imaginative and impassioned as Björk, as disturbingly frank and unnerving as Big Black, the quartet conjures a wholly unique sense of claustrophobic fury, undermining the listener's sense of order and rationality.

Having signed to Neurot in 2005 - probably the most outright rock act to have yet done so - Made Out of Babies released their debut "Trophy" to immediate critical acclaim, with Revolver describing vocalist Julie Christmas as "Courtney Love, PJ Harvey and Karen O rolled into one whirling, wailing dervish," while Kerrang suggested that "it's not just her yelping and screaming that gets ingrained in your soul, but her whole essence.

While Christmas attracts the attention of bewitched critics, a band comprised of guitarist Brendan Tobin, bassist Cooper (Players Club) and drummer Matthew Egan generate the industrial energy behind Made Out Of Babies' churning hardcore rush, summoning a slithering pit of churning, caffeinated noise-rock reminiscent of greats like Steel Pole Bathtub, Unsane and Silverfish. Neurot has confounded expectations with the signing of Made Out Of Babies, but their superficial differences to bands commonly associated with the label belie their fundamental coherence with the Neurot ethic: to release music that challenges the mind while expressing intense passion and belief.

September 2006 saw the release of Made Out of Babies second album, "Coward". Continuing where "Trophy" left off, "Coward" was produced by Steve Albini, and manages to encapsulate the band's grinding, cathartic assault within a devastatingly efficient package. A captivating and intense record that disposes of the comforting illusions of contemporary Western society with each vicious and accurate slash, "Coward" is a stomach-churning illustration of Made Out of Babies latent force, and an indicator that they chime perfectly with the stark, awesome power for which Neurot is known.

After recently moving to The End records, their third album, "The Ruiner", was released on June 24, 2008, combining all the disconcerting sound of their last two releases with the natural evolution of their sound.

In 2012, Julie announced on her Facebook page the end of Made Out of Babies.

Members:
Julie Xmas - vocals
Brendan "Bunny" Tobin - guitars
Cooper - bass
Matthew Egan - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Made+Out+of+Babies">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.