Made of hate-polish melodic death metal band.

Discography:
Bullet In Your Head (2008)
Pathogen (2010)

It has been a couple of years now since the group members met as teenagers and decided to rock together as Archeon. Since the very beginning, they were receiving very positive feedback from the audience while gigging around. The solid, energetic and skill proven music collected many fans, also abroad.

No matter very young guys to start their career, the band performed during the biggest polish festivals gaining lots of interest from the audience and from the industry press and media. Some of the magazines announced Michal Kostrzynski - the lead guitar player and the band founder - the amazing, new-born and gifted guitarist who's technique and the way of playing shape up so well, they were sure the upcoming quartet to succeed very soon. The “Heavy Metal Pages” magazine’s journalist wrote the following - “I believe, that in the presence you have to be a really genius musician to make your own style, even though you have such influences as Petrucci or Malmsteen. In my opinion Michal is a virtuoso". The other media follow this opinion and state clearly that the whole band distinguishes from the rest. Michal commented that this way- “Virtuoso? I wish I would be one day! Anyway, there is lots of better things to do now for me than speculating, I ‘d better go back to play my guitar!"

The boys never slowed down on the hard work as the band’s day by day life is concerned. Whatever they were able to achieve so far was due to their commitment, passion and a kind of personal sacrifice meaning many of important things they had to stop or give up in their private life instead . The group attitude has been the same for years – no time for loose, no wasting of any of their resources, just keeping on working and watching the group grow.

Along with few years the band's squad stabilized. Due to the musicians likes in terms of the music style, there has been a decision made to stick to the classic four-men band basing on powerful and an expressive kind of heavy metal. There was no doubt the name of the group had to be in line with the angry riffs and to correspond with the way the guys sounded like. The choice was clear here – Made of Hate!

There will be the Made of Hate debut album out at the beginning of January 2008. It is titled "Bullet In Your Head". "This one combines an expressive and intense melody and really aggressive and heavy sounding guitar riffs. It's all I feel in my heart and definitely what I'm looking for in the music. It just the way to express myself!" said Michal, who became 22 just a few days before the recording session. "It took us seven days to record “Bullet In Your Head” album and there was no hurry, not at all. We simply worked this way"- Tomek added. "Such an attitude towards the new recording was the result of the experience the band has gained so far. It led everyone to be precise and fully focused on the best possible music to perform. What is more, our producer, the ZED, was impressed with the way we proceeded with. He was really impressed when he saw me carefully checking note by note and track by track 500 pages long score, except solos of course”, Michal recalled. Their extraordinary attitude has been always a case .”When I joined them a couple of years ago I found out that this band was not only a bunch of friends fooling around, they were a damn right truck to play good stuff. I believe we've been accelerating since the very beginning"- said Radek. Jarek added: '’Being a part of this band is really a great feeling. We have a lot of fun to do what we do no matter how hard it is sometimes and how far our objectives are.”

According to Michal the objective is to create and deliver the heavy metal stuff where there is plenty of huge guitar work with not common and ambitious lines making it damn powerful and melodic – “Bullet In Your Head” is something that kicks ass and you cannot stop listening to it. You do it again and you find more, always new cool stuff”- he said.

Get yourself this full of twisted solos, powerful drums and angry vocals album. No disappointment guaranteed, if you like it heavy! “Bullet In Your Head” by Made Of Hate is a must now.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Made+of+Hate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.