Houston-based metal outfit Made In Vain originated in Spring, Texas, a small, suburban town known only for its antique shops and annual crawfish festival.
          The band blends influence from classic thrash acts like Testament, Slayer, and Sepultura with sounds reminiscent of pioneering death metal bands Morbid Angel, Obituary, Deicide, and Cannibal Corpse, and an occasional nod to the staple sabbath-influenced stoner rock bands like Down, C.O.C., and Acid Bath, as well as former Houston bands Dead Horse and D.R.I.
          The band originally formed when three members of a now defunct local metal outfit sought musicians for a new project. The initial trio included guitarist Matt Thompson, a quiet Canadian metallurgy technician (we're not kidding) who wrote many of the band's early riffs. Also in the original trio were singer Gaith Richardson, a reclusive lyricist whose prose is lathered in dark social commentary, and former bassist Jordan Ramirez. The trio soon discovered guitarist Greg Bowers, a menacing addition to the band's sound and stage presence. Drummer and home-brewing aficionado Billy Sullivan was recruited during the move to the band's secluded rehearsal space, where he was playing with another local band, the Missing Files.
          Under their former moniker Genocide, they played a host of shows in the Houston area, winning multiple Battle of the Bands events and befriending many of Houston's heaviest bands. It was this lineup that released the original Made In Vain enhanced demo CD, which included video extras in addition to the audio tracks. Upon the departure of Jordan Ramirez, Greg Bowers' brother Brandon Bowers (of Smoking Spore) stepped in as Made In Vain's full-time bassist, completing the band's current lineup.
          Refusing to enact the cliche "stand-in-one-place-and-bob-head-with-hair-in-face" live presence of their metal contemporaries, the raw energy of a live Made In Vain performance is more like an early Black Flag or Bad Brains show, with an unrelenting commitment to the stage that leaves audiences wondering how they're not in neck braces. In an effort to capture the energy of these performances on their debut album, Made In Vain tracked their debut album, "Lies in Ruin", with producer Brandon Bowers in the solitude of their rehearsal space, where they can attempt to simulate an on-stage atmosphere. The new album is available now. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Made+in+Vain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.