There are 2 bands with this name.

1) MadGod was formed in summer of 2006 by guitarist Pavel “StayC“ Stejskal and drummer Zdenek “MadZ“ Sevcik, in his garage. After few rehearsals they decided to start a band to play metal mixing oldschool thrashmetal roots with hardcore, nu-metal and later melodic death metal influences. 

After a few months, they took in a bassplayer Radek “Milhouse“ Muller and a year later a second guitarist Petr “Korny“ Blahak, who gave the band a portion of melody. Joseph Trella became the fifth member as a singer. In this formation the band was complete and made a few concerts through the whole country. 

After personal frictions with the singer, the band was urged to leave him behind and got a new singer Viet-Ha Nguyen, changing the style a bit and bringing in some new influences. By the end of January 2009 they went to studio to record a four-track demo “Unleash the Mad-God“, which contains mostly older tracks. Now, MadGod released their debut self titled album…

Current Line up (2015) : 
KoRny” - Guitar Vocals
Zett - Vocals
“Oil” - Bass
“Vlada” - Drums

2) Madgod was formed in May, 2007 in Prishtina, Kosovo by Granit Havolli and Labinot Kelmendi who were later joined by Almir Fazlijevic, Timur Cabiri and Senad Jamini. They've played many local gigs in Prishtina till they recorded their first demo on 26.02.2008. titled The End. After months of working on album material, on 31.12.2008. they release their first single titled Hypocrites, which received very positive critics. Soon after, Madgod releases their first EP with 2 songs, Hypocrites and Creative Destruction. From then, Madgod has played many gigs and concerts, including "Dojdi Vezbaj 3" metal fest in Macedonia (Struga), many gigs and solo concerts in Hard Rockers Club (Prishtina), "Rock për Rock" (traditional Rock fest in Kosovo, where they've won 1st place), "Fête de la Musique" (Prishtina), "Rock the Vote" (Prizren/Prishtina), "Për Drejtësi" (Prishtina/Ferizaj/Prizren) and many more. Now they are preparing for a gig with Korrozao from Brasil, "Dojdi Veslaj" metal fest in Struga (Macedonia) and "Armageddon" metal fest in Tirana (Albania).   

Labinot Kelmendi - Vocals
Almir Fazlijevic - Guitar
Senad Jamini - Guitar
Timur Cabiri - Bass
Granit Havolli - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MadGod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.