Madison Mars is a brilliant star in the world of dance music, produced by the Dutch dance music on Spinnin 'Records, whose sub-label Hexagon's chief, Dutch superstar Don Diablo calls Madison Mars one of the greatest hopes for the future in today's electronic music scenes.

By 2016, Madison Mars had attracted much attention from two remixes - Sam Feldt "Been A While" and Tritonal "Blackout". On 16th of May 2016, Madison Mars appeared on three Ready Or Not EPs and on 2 September 2016 he came out with his most striking hit "Future Is Now".

An international team behind Madison Mars began organizing its performances at the end of 2016, and the Estonian artist performed at his party on the 20th of October at the Amsterdam International Dance Event, the world's largest electronic music festival, where he staged with his colleagues, a record label Hexagon. The newest "Put Em Up" came out on October 21st. On October 27, Madison Mars began the UK tour.

On November 2nd, he finished remixing "Love On Me" on Galantis & Hook N Sling. On November 5, Madison Mars performed at Hollywood in Tallinn.

On December 16, 2016, Madison Mars was released on remix of Jonas Blue's "By Your Side" (feat. Raye).

Madison Mars's schedule is nearly as tight as the world's largest peak. Countries such as the USA, Canada, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Vietnam and Indonesia are just some of the DJs that have already been featured this year. In addition to all, the glory and pride of Estonian dance music are coming to the world at one of the most famous and largest electronic music festival Tomorrowland in late July!

Madison was seen on Mars July night at Pärnu, nightclub Sugar. This was the first time the man stepped into the hometown of Pärnu. Madison Mars performed on the 3rd of August 2017 on the Pärnu beach Weekend Festival Balticul.

On August 11, 2017, Madison Mars came out on remix of Hardwell's creature "Creatures of the Night", where Austin Mahone sings American.

On September 1, the Madison Mars "Atom" free download on Spinnin 'Records was released.

On September 15th, P! Nk '' What About Us - The Remixes '' was released, which also remixed Madison Mars.

Madison Mars released the single 'Magneto' on December 22nd.

On February 23, 2018, he performed at the Estonian Culture Dance Music Festival '' Made in Estonia '' at the Culture School. The producer will soon release a fresh remix to Sting's new single. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Madison+Mars">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.