Madmans Esprit is a South Korean  black metal band and solo project of vocalist Kyuho, formed in 2010 in Seoul. Their unique genre is described as  "Depressive Suicidal Blackened Pop".

Madmans Esprit's debut album NACHT, a sinister melange of various Black Metal subgenres with Shoegazing guitar melodies and Korean Folk undertones was released through the Italian cult black metal label ATMF in 2014 and praised by scene critics. Four years later in 2018 the project started to gain more attention outside of the black metal realm with the release of their second full-length album Conscientization of Unconsciousness through Gan-Shin Records, the European home of Visual Kei legends like DIR EN GREY, lynch. and MUCC. While Conscientization of Unconsciousness is still based on DSBM, it incorporates a much broader spectrum of influences like Post-Punk, Indie-Rock and even Grind-Core and Classical music in its tight knit meshwork of depression and ecstacy. In spring 2019, together with their first headlining tour in 6 European countries, the project released their EP, Glorifying Suicide. By introducing a lower tuning, the release shows a more aggressive side than its predecessor, illustrating topics like self-reflection, art and propaganda. In autumn 2019 the band toured Asia with their single Seoul, reflecting the darkness of Korea by combining the most pop friendly and the most brutal sound of the band’s history to date. One year later Madmans Esprit released the single Jahaewa Haebang. A Live Blu-ray of their tour final one man concert Seoul and the single Mangtanshi followed right after, raising more than 11,000 euro from crowd funding. The two singles contrast topics like self-harm and humanity, experimenting more with 90’s Visual Kei sounds, dramatic black metal influences and korean folk rhythm. 

Kyuho said he has always been influenced by Japanese visual kei. Some of the project's influences are Dir En Grey, Opeth,  Radiohead and X Japan. He is also the guitarist of the band ms. isohp romatem, established by Juho, Madmans Esprit's guitarist. 

Now, 2021 January the band releases another single “백골의 정원 (Garden of Skeletons)”. Based on a mid-tempo alternative rock vibe, the song combines the characteristic evil sound of Black Metal  and Modern Metal breakdowns. From soul-crashing DSBM arpeggio to brutally fast blast beat, Madmans Esprit is not hesitating to show more of their black metal origin.  

Fearless to deconstruct genres in order to express their concept, Madmans Esprit fascinates listeners from all sides of the music spectrum and the globe. After topping the Viberate chart in the category South Korean Metal and being nominated for a Korean Music Award, the band rapidly grew their fanbase and became the most successful metal band in Korea currently.

 Live Support Members: Juho (guitar)ARC (guitar)Geon (bass)Yoel (drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Madmans+Esprit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.