There are numerous bands named Madrigal, including: 
1) Madrigal was a Swedish gothic death metal band founded in 1998 in Gothenburg. 
2) Madrigal was an American psychedelic and experimental rock band from New York City, active in the late-1960s and early-1970s. 
3) Madrigal was a British nine-piece folk band active in the early 70s. 
4) Madrigal was a Canadian psychedelic pop band who released the album "Sunshine & Baked Beans" in 1970. 
5) Madrigal was a Turkish alternative rock band. 
6)  Madrigal  is a Brazilian black metal band. 
7) Madrigal was an American prog-rock group from Spokane, WA, active in the late 1980s. 
8) Madrigal was a French traditional music group formed in 1989. 
9) Madrigal was a French progressive rock band active in the 70s. 
10) Madrigal is an American pop-rock group from Texas. 

1) Madrigal a Swedish gothic death metal band founded in 1998 in Gothenburg. The founding members were teenagers back in those days and played in different local bands. They started rehearsing and a year later they won a new bands competition. The first prize was to enter a studio and record a demo. The demo was sent out to mp3.com and it was really successful. They were number 3 in the Gothic chart ahead of bands like Lacuna Coil and Moonspell.
In early 2000 Madrigal had the chance to open up a show for In Flames in Gothenburg. They received a great response and In Flames Singer Anders Friden was very impressed with the band. He invited them to the Studio Fredman (which he owns) to record their debut album „I Die, You Soar“.
Anders played the demos to the Nuclear Blast A&R´s - In Flames record company – who thought that Madrigal was a newcomerband that deserved a deal! So the story began...

2) Madrigal was an American psychedelic and experimental rock band from New York City, active in the late-1960s and early-1970s. Little is known about the band and its two members. Their only release was a 1971 self-titled album (Spyder 136), of which only 50 copies were pressed. Their sound has been described as similiar to the fugs, and as a cross between Suicide, Moolah and the Index.

3) Madrigal was a British nine-piece folk band active in the early 70s formed through a merger of an unaccompanied vocal group and two singer/guitarists, Paul Driscoll and John Cook. Comprising Valerie Wicks (vocals), Alessandra Jackson (vocals), Carolyn Whettel (vocals, mellotron), Rosamund Crawford (vocals), Robert Wicks (vocals), Tim Jackson (vocals), Shane Jackson (vocals, violin), Paul Driscoll (vocals, guitar), and John Cook (vocals, guitar), they ensemble self-released the album  Beneath the Greenwood Tree in 1973 in a limited run of 700 copies. 

4) Madrigal was a Canadian psychedelic pop band who released the album "Sunshine & Baked Beans" in 1970. 

5) Madrigal was a Turkish alternative rock band, was founded by Ceyhun Kaan Karakaş and Kaan Alıcı in Kocaeli in 2007 under the name of Mavera, with Anıl Erdem Cevizci on vocals and guitar, Kaan Alıcı on bass guitar, Sanlı Akgün on drums and back vocals, Burak Emir Kamacı on keyboard and back vocals, Ceyhun Kaan Karakaş on electric guitar.

6)  Madrigal is a Brazilian black metal band. 

7) Madrigal was an American prog-rock group from Spokane, WA, active in the late 1980s. 

8) Madrigal was a French traditional music group formed in 1989. 

9) Madrigal was a French progressive rock band active in the 70s. 

10) Madrigal is an American pop-rock group from Texas. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Madrigal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.