There are multiple artists named Maelstrom.

1) Maelstrom is Mikael Dahlgaard (Emok of Phoney Orphants fame), a progressive trance producer and DJ from Denmark.

The new self titled album by Maelstrom, consists of collaborations with artists including Liquid Soul, Nyquist, Hydrophonic from South Africas Nano records and NDSA aka Ticon, which has taken place over the spring and summer 2007. Emok together with Michael Banel, during the last 10 years, the driving force behind the Iboga label, and together with Jeppe (Jeppe Ornkilde), he has released two full-lenght albums as Phony Orphants.
                   
Emok has during many years build a very strong reputation, known for his top-quality DJ sets, which has seen him become one of the most requested DJs globally and he is also known for his creative and firm skills in the studio. He is known for his ear for today's progressive sounds and grooves. 

2) Hailing from an ancient French harbour city, Maelstrom grew up in Techno filled dark and grimy warehouses. Now he spends his days shuttered in darkness, working on his own music and his nights at clubs, raves and festivals passing that music on, inspiring another generation.

With releases to his credit on labels such as Boys Noize, Sound Pellegrino and Dirtybird, not to mention three acclaimed releases on ZONE over the past 18 months Mael’s remixes and original productions represent a perfect synthesis of past and future, Detroit, France and beyond.

Fusing together the sounds of classic Detroit techno with key elements of modern electro but with French class and sophistication, every tracks rather it be a remix or original production are carefully and expertly crafted. Each full of heartily bass pressure and intricate percussion that whip the dance floor into a frenzy and take you into a futuristic ecstasy, with a touch of nostalgia. 

He also produces as Joann. An alias he created to showcase a sound closer to early era dubstep with pop and R&B leanings. This project gained strong support across the globe, from the likes of Marcel Detmann (Berghain/Ostgut Ton) or Maryanne Hobbs, who played his 115 State track no less than 4 times on her BBC Radio One show.

Since 2013, his collaboration works with Louisahhh!!! have been released on Bromance, and they're already working on more material together. Two distinctly different paths, converging at a singular point of inspiration and collaboration : a further exploration of the known territories: beloved old school electro roots, ferocious punk rock attitude, deep house sensitivity, with an eye to the bold, bright future

3) Maelstrom is a 5-piece metal band based in Glasgow. Their debut album “The Shores At Dawn” was released in 2008. Based on Tolkien mythologies, Maelstrom’s music is a cacophony of dark melodies; combining traditional Black and Doom metal influences with melodic and progressive styles. 

4) Maelstrom was an American progressive rock/avant-garde music band from the '70s. In their 1973 self-titled album they wrote "Like all avant-garde artists, Maelstrom pushed the boundaries of music. Our thanks to Soft Machine, Stravinski, Holst, Gentle Giant, Henry Cow, Yes and our determination to be experimental."
Members: Robert Owen, James Larner, Paul Klotzbier, Mark Knox, Jim Miller, Jeff McMullen.

5) Maelstrom was an American Metal/Crossover band that was signed to Taang! Records in the early 90s. They released a full-length record "Step One" (1990) and a 3-song 7".

6) Maelstrom is a band from Karlovac, Croatia. Formed in February 2010, at the time when the planets of this galaxy took an unique form of irregular octagon with Earth in the middle. The meaning behind the name represents the freedom of tought and a „swallowing“ of old ideas. Current members are Boki (vocal), Gotz (drums), Krle (guitar), evershfting, everchanging. We are infinite. Thus said it's a journey that never ends. Our style isn't defined, we just want to create something new and different in metal as a genre. The main influence is Arcturus.

7) Maelstrom is an American thrash metal band. Very little is known about them. 

8) Maelstrom is a swedish folk band.

9) Maelstrom was an atmospheric death/doom metal band from Turin, Italy, formed in 1994. They released two demos, “Sospiria, lacrima: Tenebra” (1996) and “Néant et le songe” (1997). 

10) Maelstrom is a heavy metal band from Chiavari, Italy.

11) Maelstrom is a black/gothic metal band from Potenza, Italy.

12) Maelstrom is a thrash metal band from Velletri , Italy.

13) Maelstrom was a black/death metal band from Porto Mantovano, Italy.

14) Maelstrom is a death metal band from Melbourne, Australia. Released one track via myspace, "Conquer All".

15) Maelstrom is a thrash metal band from Ontario, Canada. Formed in 1986, they've released to demos before splitting up.

16) Maelstrom is a post metal-shoegaze one-man-band from Florence, Italy, formed in 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maelstrom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.