There are several artists or bands called Magnetic.

The Croatian Dance Project http://www.magnetic.com.hr
Members: Marina, DJ Kille & Daniel
Hit Singles:
-Material girl
-Twist and sout
-La Luna
-Nothing's gonna stop us now
taken from album (2007) "Nothing's gonna stop us now"
by Warner Music Austria

The French electro band:
In 2000, 4 musicians gather together to play and confront their ideas and styles. They release a 4 tracks EP. They keep on working and, in april 2003, they release a self-produced LP named "To Be And To Have".
Coming from a digital reggae background, their sound evolves and takes different new directions towards drum'n'bass, dub, electro rock & pop that they experiment on stage during their 2003-2004 tour. Magnetic's music tends, then, to become more and more a without-label, crossover mix between acoustic instruments and electronic hardware.
For their second album, "Silent Storms", they created a much more rougher sound since the first sketches. Lyrics are talkin' about the complexity of human relationships, the ambient cynicism and the underground aggressiveness of our societies.

 A UK band 
indie rock UK band http://myspace.com/planetmagnetic

 The Canadian band (desription from Jamendo) 
Magnetic is a 'post rock' electronic inspired band from Canada.  The band is made up entirely of Mark Weiler (formerly of pop punksters Trigger and goth metal punks Ripped) who plays all the instruments, creates loops and samples, and anything else that needs to be done.  Mark hopes to expand the group in the near future so that he can play live again.

Magnetic has released four 'official' albums ('The Desolation Coast', 'The Magnetic North', 'Magnetic II', and 'Ghosts').  However, Mark plans to release his earlier work (five albums - 'Self Title', 'Desolation Sound', 'To Be Here, Now', 'Alien Skies', and 'Explorations From The Magnetic Coast') under the Magnetic name.  These albums are very primitive and almost entirely loop and sample based.  Most of the material on these albums has never been released, however, various tracks can be found on 'Acidplanet'.  As well, remakes of 'On This Astral Plain', and 'Piano #1' can be found on 'The Magnetic North' album. 

Mark has also started working on a new Magnetic album.  It will mark a dramatic departure for the groups sound...the will be vocals on some or all the tracks and a lot more real guitars, basses, and drums!!!  As of this writing, the cd will be called 'The Future'.

Heavy metal/hard rock band from Saskatchewan, Canada.
http://www.magneticstorm.ca/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Magnetic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.