Throughout the years Johan and Isaak had been very active in various grindcore and crossover bands and projects. When Isaak met Dennis at a local recordstore in 1996, final plans were made to start a new band recording and playing those songs. Hence Magnetron was born in June 1996 and recorded the ‘Off To Lego Lego land’ demo. 

After the addition of Jelle on bass and a local gig, the band started writing new material which was clearly of the thrash metal persuasion. It was at this point the group decided to continue as a 'serious' band. Bart was recruited as lead guitarist. The quintet soon recorded their first thrash metal demo ‘Observing The Ridiculous’, featuring 8 new tracks. 

Then a period of line-up changes followed. At first Martijn replaced Isaak on lead vocals, who had left. With Martijn the group recorded their third demo (‘Mirror Of Hypocrisy’) which included one new song and some old ones. 
Shortly after, Martijn was replaced by Jelle, now leaving an empty spot on bassguitar. Danny joined the ranks and their last demo was recorded in Hilversum but never officially released because of a disappointing production. 
That same year Magnetron recorded a cover version of the song 'Hydrophobic Web' which would appear on the Cripple Bastards compilation/tribute album "FALAFEL GRIND: 32 bands proving that Cripple Bastards suck!!" (Obscene Productions)' 

The group eventually disbanded somewhere in 1998. Johan and Jelle joined Malignant Tumour(check out the ‘Dawn Of A New Age’ album!). Isaak and Dennis revived Isaaks old band Aegisma, releasing 4 albums. Bart and Danny are active in the new powermetal band Secret Of Steel 

In 2007 Magnetron reunited and played their first gig in 9 years time in Leiden. February 10th 2008 the band recorded a new 4-song demo in the Double Noise Studio (Tilburg, The Netherlands). The "Born Witless" promo/CDemo has been released.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Magnetron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.