There are seven known artists called Magus.

1) Magus plays a very violent doom/death with a lot of sudden outbursts of death/grind. The band is filthy, grim and otherwise very close linked to oldschool death metal. For fans of diSEMBOWELMENT and Rigor Sardonicous. The band is probably one of the shortest ever as the band was only active between the 12th december 1991 and the 6th mai 1992. That's only six months. 

Discography:  
1992 - Lines That Formed Hexagrams (Live Demo) None
1992 - Ruminations of Debauchery (Demo Tape) None
1992 - Ruminations of Debauchery (EP) Gothic
1992 - Ruminations of Debauchery (7 inch.) Gothic/Torched
1996 - Ruminations of Debauchery (Compilation) Elegy
2003 - Ruminations of Debauchery (Re-release)

2) Magus was a computer music tracker from shamo since 1995 who now changed his artist name to Monochronomicon to avoid further confusion with all those dudes, here on this page.

3) Magus is a finnish music group. So far they have made one demo called "Marian ilmestys" which is cover originally made by CMX.

4) Magus is something of an alchemist, fusing atmospheric soundscapes with progressive rock. Essentially a vehicle for guitarist/vocalist Andrew Robinson, the band's '90s output included drummer Steve Perkins and keyboardist Rue Yamauchi on the releases "Magus," "Traveller" and "Highway 375" (the latter featured songs based on Frank Herbert's Dune series, which had earlier inspired Klaus Schulze). Following 2001's "The Green Earth" (which was augmented by flute and violin), Robinson emerged with a new set of collaborators on the concept album "The Garden." Often likened to Porcupine Tree, the music of Magus has cast its spell on listeners who like a little space in their progressive rock. 

5) Magus were a three-piece instrumental band based in London, active between 2000-2002. The band grew out of the ashes of hardcore/punk/goth/metal band Ordeal X following the departure of the singer. The band were heavily influenced by Killing Joke, the Ruts, Steel Pulse, thrash metal, post-rock and experimental music. A nine-track demo disc has recently emerged from the archives. 
Following the band's split, the three members of Magus went on to make music elsewhere - guitarist Gaz formed Monument, drummer Steve joined The Faces of Sarah, and bassist Matt became Guanoman. 

6) Magus is a duo from Singapore comprising of Mark Dolmont (Meddle) on drums and Leslie Low (The Observatory, Meddle, Snake Blood Union) on guitar. Like Meddle, MAGUS has its roots in improvisation, hypnotic repetition, horror, and melancholia down by the river in a van by the woods. Their debut album "Sun Worshipper" was released in Ujikaji Records in September 2011.

7) Reclusive dark electronic artist, Ian Sutcliffe. Began producing 1999. First official release in 2003. Occasional releases and gigs have followed. Founded Death Brigade Records in 2006. San Diego based hardsound producer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Magus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.