There are multiple bands with this name. 

1. MAHR is a atmospheric black metal band and is part of the ПРАВА КОЛЛЕКТИВ entity along with Arkhtinn and Voidsphere. It is known that these projects share members. Debut album 'Antelux' was released on Fallen Empire Records. 

2. MAHR is a noise/no-wave group formed in 2007.

3. Mahr is a female experimental electronic artist from Madison, WI that use to go by Mara5 but in Spring 2012 changed to Mahr. 

MAHR is a noise/no-wave group formed in 2007.by Moses Khrushchev (Programming/Vocals/Keyboards)and Jesus Stalin (Guitar/Vocals/Keyboards). Originally Jesus Stalin and Moses Khrushchev were involved in a trifecta of bands; The George W's, Vertical Anus (originally a proverbial guitar band), and Uber-Christ (a tongue-in-cheek "christian hardcore" band). Eventually The George W's and Uber-Christ dissolved and the duo focused their efforts into Vertical Anus, but there is only one EP to date under the VA banner. After a 3 year hiatus, Vertical Anus reformed as MAHR, the idea of which first surfaced during the George W's years, but never yielded any releases. 

Members of MAHR are also involved in other projects with their Flaming Spaceship labelmates. Moses Khrushchev is involved in Unpredictable Oysters under the name R-Skrilla, whom MAHR has collaborated with in the past, as well as producing speedcore techno as DJ Planters.  Jesus Stalin has a solo noise project called Feedback Horse and has recorded one self titled EP, as well as the keyboard side project Carol and The Niggers. 

MAHR is also constantly at odds with their Flaming Spaceship labelmates Kal Varnson. When heads of FS suggested a MAHR/Kal Varnson split, the band was reported to have said "No fucking way, not until they stop being such pretentious douche bags."

Releases:

Raging Basement And Other Such Events Of Consequence
An Evening With MAHR: Bolts In Your Throat And Sunglasses At Night
An Afternoon With MAHR: Dishwashing Soap And The Land Of Wind And Ghosts
MAHR 4: Feeble Recordings Of MAHR (With Guest Appearances by MAHR)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mahr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.