Hailing from North Oakland, California, Squadda B and Mondre of Main Attrakionz have been rapping together for most of their young lives. Early on, a shared love of rap music led them to put school on the back-burner and focus on producing music with a talented crew of local artists. Over the ensuing 7+ years, (and with an added assist from the world wide web and social media) Main Attrakionz have cultivated a unique and passionate sound, combining opaque atmospherics and lived-in reality rhymes, that stands as one of the most interesting and refreshing in the crowded and fractured world of today's rap underground.

Squadda B, who doubles as both producer and rapper, has an instantly identifiable production style that draws from regional rap styles like hyphy and mobb music in the Bay Area, Memphis mixtape obfuscation and the NYC street rap of C-N-N, but also maintains pop accessibility through his use of booming 808s and melodic, floating vocal clips. Simply put: this music sounds like nothing else out right now. Their collaborations with like-minded artists such as Lil B, Clams Casino, and Shady Blaze have only added to post-digital sonics Main Attrakionz have cultivated over the last 2 years.

A relentless stream of solo and collaborative releases in 2011, including I Smoke Because I Don't Care About Death, The Shady Bambino Project, Dope Since '91, and their most definitive statement to-date, 808s and Dark Grapes II, have turned heads not only among those on with an Internet connection and an interest in rap music, but have landed them acclaim from publications such as Pitchfork, The NY Times, Complex Magazine, The Fader, SPIN, and Fact Magazine. As the year winds down, Main Attrakionz have a couple of surprises still up their sleeves before turning their focus towards a debut LP, set for release in 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Main+Attrakionz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.