There is more than one artist called Maitreya. They are listed below in order of popularity (judged by long term listened tracks and Top Listeners on Last.fm).

1) UK ambient and space music artist

Maitreya (aka Simon Lomax) is a producer of electronic ambient space music who, through his unique and involving music expresses a personal global intuition. His work possesses an unparalleled sense of sonic depth and universal scale whilst exhibiting a remarkably lucid grasp of texture. The eight tracks on the second album Telluric Waves are vaporous shivering fragments of the artist's earthen vision. Wind-swept tundral planes, reverberant crystal caverns, drifting cloud-motion and the rising gloom of night are themes which dwell, return and shift throughout the listening space. This work of smooth synthesizer swells, vague modulations, eerie detuned drones and tender tonal harmonic blends works as well at the fringes of sleep as it does under involved listening.

All three albums (From the Mothership, Telluric Waves and .74) are capable of taking the listener on a unique and immersive journey. 


2) A progressive death metal band from Sweden

In 2005 MAITREYA recorded the debut album New World Prophecy in the bands own studio/rehearsalplace RECLAB. A record combining elements of thought, aggression and strength presenting a future vision of the world.

The search for additional musicians began and in early 2006 Lars Soderberg (former member of Diabolical and Seethings) joined on drums together with Mikael Almgren (Terminal Function) on guitars. The line-up of MAITREYA was now complete.

However Mikael decided to move back to his hometown Gavle in July due to personal reasons, and the distance made Maitreya and Mikael to part ways. Lars decided to leave as well after experiencing lack in motivation as far as drumming goes (Lars is also a very skilled bassplayer).

Three new members were now recruited. Enes Sabanovic, Vanja Hadzic and Jonas Olofsson. The rest is yet to come!


3) US Based, New Zealand Hip hop artist (www.sellaband.com/maitreya)

Maitreya burst on the scene in the summer of 1999-2000 with the singles “Baggy Trousers” and “The New Outlook” ft. Dave Dobbyn as part of Christchurch crew Dark Tower. In 2001 he began recording under the guidance of DLT who then gave him the moniker Maitreya meaning a ‘Future Teacher’. 2001-2003 were spent working at Auckland radio station Mai FM and recording his demo “Comin 2 Amerika” in anticipation of an August 2003 move to New York City. For the next two years Maitreya immersed himself in New York’s Open Mic scene and in 2005 he released and sold over 500 copies of ‘ILLEGAL ALIEN’, a mixtape style album hosted by The Game’s DJ, Kris-Stylez. He also secured an internship at Roc-a-Fella Records (Jay-Z) as a member of the ‘Street Team’ and in 2006 began his own live show, ‘ILLEGAL’, which he continues to perform in and around the Lower East Side and Brooklyn, New York. In November of 2006 Maitreya signed up to the online music site SellaBand.com and became an immediate sensation. The challenge was to raise $50,000 from fans on the site to be used to record an album with top of the line producers and production facilities. Maitreya became the 6th artist ever to raise the 50K on June 2nd 2007 and has since released his fully packed CD "Close To Home", which is getting major airplay in New Zealand at the moment, where Maitreya is currently touring. Next concerts in Europe in August 2008 (6 August in London, 15 August in Amsterdam's Paradiso). www.oneloveandlight.com for more info!


4) A ballad rock band from Tallinn, Estonia. Maitreya emerged from Eiforia in 2008 and is lead by Vitaly Malev, the singer, author and composer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maitreya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.