Drummer/producer Makaya McCraven brings together "future-is-now drumming” with his roots in jazz and world music to form his unique and powerful sound. Regarded as “one of Chicago’s most versatile and in demand drummers” (Chicago Reader) and described by Downbeat Magazine as “exceptional on the drums,” Makaya McCraven moves between genres at lightning speed. 
 
Makaya has been called “one of the hardest drummers on the live music circuit” (revivalist.okayplayer.com). He has worked with an array of world class musicians including Archie Shepp, Yusef Lateef, Bernie Worrell, Soulive, Samba Mapangala, Charles Neville, Fareed Haque, Marcus Strickland, Tony Monaco, Willie Pickens, Linonel Louke, and Bobby Broom.
 
Makaya has recorded extensively across genres. His debut record as a leader, "Split Decision" (Chicago Sessions, 2012) was well received getting critical acclaim from the Chicago Tribune, Jazz Weekly, All about Jazz and reaching #6 for Blaze Radios top #25 in 2012. This record, which reached first round Grammy consideration, along with  his 13 piece all-star band’s featured performance at Pritzker Pavillion at Millennium Park, quickly established Makaya as one of the leading voices on the Chicago music scene. His forthcoming January 2015 release, “In the Moment” (International Anthem Records) forges new routes in creative music, incorporating electronic elements and improvised music, includes award-winning artists Jeff Parker (Tortoise), Marquis Hill (2014 Monk competition winner) and D’Sean Jones (Underground Resistance). Makaya is a true improviser who, with each performance, creates a new live music experience.
 
Born in Paris in 1983 to drummer Stephen McCraven and Hungarian folk singer Agnes Zsigmondi, Makaya’s wide ranging influences include hip hop and funk, which inform his unique and exciting approach to music. Unquestionably respected as a jazz artist, Makaya also “sees no need to suppress his hip hop chops or rock spirit in an effort to fit in and be dubbed a jazz drummer” (AllAboutJazz.com). He started his professional career in high school co-founding hip hop band Cold Duck Complex which led to opportunities of supporting shows of artists such as Wu-Tang Clan, 50 Cent, Rhazel, Digable Planets, The Pharcyde, Mixmaster Mike, and the Wailers to name a few. 
 
Makaya has toured nationally and internationally, recently concluding his part of a 52 city national tour opening for Steely Dan with The Bobby Broom Organi-Sation. His work with Bobby Broom as part of the Bobby Broom Trio (BBT) yielded "My Shining Hour" which reached #3, and has been on the top ten of the JazzWeek charts for its first six weeks. He played the Chicago Jazz Festival with the BBT in 2014, and has played at the Detroit Jazz Fest, Elb Jazz Fest (Germany), Winter Jazz Fest (NYC), Inntoene Festival (Austria), Ottowa Blues Fest, Porgy and Bess (Vienna), the Blue Note in New York City, the Jazz Showcase in Chicago, Regatta Bar in Boston and Fasching, Stockholm to name a few.
 
Makaya is also an educator who endorses Vic Firth Sticks. His background, experience, and vision makes for a dynamic instrumentalist whose talent is undeniable to the listener. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Makaya+McCraven">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.