There are more artists named Makam.

1) A house-producer from The Hague, Holland. Makam is putting his own unique take on house music, which can be infectiously pumping & raw, carefully mixed that sweet touch of old school, but also truly soulful, slow moving & sexy. Guy Blanken started producing in 2002. The passion for the music he creates came from a long road of studio time, motivated by his family & friends, who all were active clubbers. Building his studio at home, Guy allowed himself to develop his unique sound and create his very own style. In 2006 Guy started started his Makam project and this is where he currently stands today. With his Makam productions, he is building the perfect bride between dance music and the deep & classic atmospheres." Releasing music on Soweso and Sushitech and an album planned for late 2009, Makam is ready to show his distinct perception of house music.

2) The Indonesian Makam was formed in February ’95 at the great river valley, Solo-central Java.
First known as SUCKER GRAVE, the band is composed of five nocturne creatures, Petrus Arcwinter (Vocals), Djomboth Androsarkas (Guitar), Zephyri (2nd Guitar), Kris (Bass), Julious Kamadath (Drums).
There are a lot of influences from this former band in their music, but Northern Black/Death Metal was a shining beacon in the dark for their music genre.
After more than seven months, SUCKER GRAVE had a vision and changed the name, in October 28th 1995, to MAKAM, which means MAKabre AMuletha (java : pajimatan kang hamurba ing pati).
In December ’95 Djiwo (ex-SAKRAL, PRALENANT) joined in vokal session.
After a couple of gigs, Zephyri and Kris left the band.
After releasing their first demo "Sympathy For The Beast", in 1997, the band took a long break.
But anyways, they succesfully managed to do their promotion tour in the most extreme fest gigs for several reign & towns, of course using additional musician rebels, Mbendhus of DARKLORD & Boni.
Makam is a link with past, strength for the present and hope for a noble future.

Website : http://www.makam.itgo.com/ 
MySpace : http://www.myspace.com/makamraiderklan

3) Makám's music can be seen as a specialized branch of today's music with its own eclecticism. It is characterized by a synthesis of different organizational of forms, a special cohesion of influences of different kinds of musical inspiration and the result of studying contemporary music, archaic traditional music as well as the spontaneous improvisation of free music.
Makám was formed in 1984 with the purpose of establishing a peculiar form of community playing music, a special synthesis of harmonies, trying to show the common characteristics belonging together in music cultures of different peoples and contrasting musical forms.

Main musicians include:

Zoltán Krulik - guitar
Balázs Szokolay - sax, furulya, duda
Balázs Thurnay - kaval, voice
Eszter Krulik - violin
Zoltán Mizsei - keyboard, voice
Zoltán Kovács - double bass
Géza Orczy - derbuka, tapán, buzuki, saz <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Makam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.