Meaning bandname: Maquiladoras (or as we write: Makiladoras) are free-trade zones in Mexico. ‘Free’ means free to exploit, the workers in this kind of places don’t have any rights. At the Drive In made a song about the Maquiladoras and especially about the many women that were murdered when they were traveling to their job. Most of us love deathmetal, so we could have chosen a name like Decomposing Carcasses, but this name is a lot scarier when you know what it means. 

History: In the spring of 1999 the guitarplayer of the Hoogeveen band Venders of Smut got converted to christianity. His punkrocklive was over, but the rest of the band decided to continue. The line-up was Dennis (drums), Rick (bass), Michel (guitar). At first they wanted to do the singing themselves, but a flexible-walk-by-substitute-worker from Groningen (Eva) was much easier. Dennis left, came back and left again for good in the spring of 2001. In this time we also had a second guitarplayer: Martijn. The gap that Dennis left was filled with Bart in the summer of 2001. Recorded in 2001 7 songs in the Bunt's Studio in Utrecht and this was released as a 10" in the beginning of 2003 by a cooperation of several labels. In March 2004 Makiladoras is the first Dutch diy band to tour Israel! In July 2004 Bart got converted to an easier lifestyle and got replaced by Michael who already temporary saved their asses back in 2001 for a while. End of 2004 saw the release of the split 7" with RADIO BIKINI. Soon te be released is a thematic LP about Genetic Technology. This will be another co-release between 15 labels. 

Lyrics: They are a way to get rid of frustrations.They are about things like social inequality; people that force you to be nice and friendly; work (our national religion); Maxima (our national daughter-in-law) and racism (our new national passtime). Most lyrics are in dutch, the native language of Michael and Eva. 

Description: Metalpunk 

Line-Up: Michael  (drums), Eva (vocals), Michel (guitar and vocals), Rick (bass)

Official Site: http://www.makiladoras.tk/

R.I.P. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Makiladoras">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.