There are multiple artists named Malachia:

1) Malachia is a industrial / electronic combo from Italy, founded in 2002. The original line-up consisted of Jay R. Ewing, and Amanda Oxemberg.
This mysterious combo is devoted to an isolationist sound deeply influenced by noir film of the 1940s / '50s, especially the vision of Fritz Lang and the atmospheric art photography of Nicholas Musuraca.
Their interests are focused on sonic sculptures made via trance states using lights, repetitive images, natural echoes, harmonic loops. They don't produce music: every impression of this kind is pure collateral effect. The processed sounds are strictly related to: numbers, photos, pictures and viceversa.

2) Malachia was a Christian glam metal band founded in 1985 in Covina, California, United States. The group shuffled lineups before settling on a stable five member group for their debut EP in 1986, titled "Under the Blade", which was partially financed by bassist Wade Little's father, and a friend of Wade was a personal friend of Kiss bassist Gene Simmons's girlfriend at the time. She promised to get the demo in the hands of Gene. Little admits in a 2012 interview with Cross Rhythms website that the band were not  as seasoned and ready for the studio as they could have been while recording the EP, but it gave the band valuable experience in preparing for the recording of their sole full length album, "Red Sunrise" in 1987. 
"Red Sunrise" did not provide a commercial breakthrough for the band, but it is often considered an overlooked classic of Christian metal. As a result, the band tried changing their name to Bashan-Tyre and then, in 1990, to Vision. As Vision, they recorded the song "Runaway" for a metal compilation album titled "California Metal Band II". It was to be the band's last hurrah, and they disbanded shortly after the recording of the song. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Malachia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.