There are multiple artists named Malaise: 1) a Swedish gothic rock band. 2) A Canadian black metal band. 3) A Portuguese folk punk band.

1) Malaise is a gothic rock band from Stockholm, Sweden. Started out in 1989 as an all-electronic one-man project with Martin Danielsson behind the knobs. The next few years produced bucketloads of more or less thought out demos. In 1991 Malaise contributed "We are Colliders" to the Memento Materia sampler Elementary '91, soon followed by more songs on the samplers Illuminative '92 and Autumn Leaves '93. In 1993 Martin teamed up with guitarist Robert Svärdh and drummer Johan Linder. The same year Malaise released the debut CD "Secession", a six-track mini CD.
Malaise started to do proper live gigs around Sweden and neighbouring countries. 1994 saw Robert leaving and guitarist Juho Korhonen and bassplayer Kim Boman joining the band. Work started on a new album that was recorded in August/ September -95. The album "52 Ways" was released in January -96. In the end of '97 Johan left the band due to relocation and was replaced by Niklas Bergström behind the drums. Work was in the meantime going on to complete songs for a new album. Early '98 Juho and Kim left the band but was soon replaced by Jim Edwards, ex. Misery Loves Co., and Fredrik Leijström, both on guitars. Also, Peter Waites joined in as bassplayer during the spring of '98. Finally, during the spring of '99 Stefan Väisänen had replaced Peter as bassplayer and the new songs came together after many sleepless nights, the album "A World Of Broken Images" was officially released in early October '99, containing eleven new Malaise songs. In late july '00, when the new MCD "re-assimilated" was more or less finished, Niklas Bergström (drums) and Jim Edwards (leadguitar) left the band and were replaced by programmed drums, Jimmy Waern and Jimmy Widegren, both on guitars. Spring '01 keyboardist, Robert Eklind from Nocturnal Notion, joined up to fulfill the new Malaise sound. Spring 2002 Jimmy Waern and Malaise went separate ways. At the beginning of year 2003 Malaise released the EP re-assimilated which put them on billboard lists all over Europe 
The latest years Malaise has evolved and has gone through yet another change in the line-up when Stefan, Jimmy and Robert left the band. The band's latest addition, Kim Blomkvist (Therion, Internal Decay) and Ronnie Bäck (Nocturnal Notion, Aether) now uses the bass and 12-string guitar to create the unique sound experience that is Malaise. With the new EP "Hypnotized by forgotten lies", releasedate February 24 - 2006. They once again prove that they are capable of mesmerizing their audience with dark soundscapes, industrial beats and haunting melodies.

1) Malaise is a mysterious black metal band from Quebec, Canada. The band's only release "Bringer of Destruction" was self-released in 2005.

2) Formerly under the name Can't Sing For Shit, Malaise is an indie folk punk band originally from Portugal. There is a demo released with the old band name called "Holy Shit!", it was the demo released for the 2009 USA winter tour. There is more unreleased material but new recordings are on the way and MALAISE will now be playing with a back-up band for your punk enjoyment. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Malaise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.