Malcolm Middleton (born Malcolm Bruce Middleton on 31 December 1973 and raised in Falkirk, Scotland) is a Scottish singer-songwriter, best known best known for his work with Aidan Moffat in post-folk indie band, Arab Strap, and for his subsequent solo career, writing and producing. In 2012 he released a self-titled album under the name Human Don't Be Angry. 

Middleton began in the 1990s playing both bass and guitar, and sometimes singing, in several bands  including Purple Bass Plectrum, Rabid Lettuce, Pigtube and The Laughing Stock. In 1995, Middleton and Aidan Moffat, after sharing their love of musical artists such as Smog and Will Oldham, began making music under the name "Arab Strap". The band released six studio albums.

In 2002, while in between Arab Strap albums, both he and bandmate Moffat pursued different solo projects, Moffat's being the ambient Lucky Pierre; Middleton, writing lyrics and singing for the first time, recorded the cathartic 5:14 Fluoxytine Seagull Alcohol John Nicotine for Chemikal Underground.

Middleton released the slightly more optimistic album Into The Woods in the summer of 2005, again between Arab Strap records.

In late 2006, Arab Strap split after ten years together, leading Malcolm to focus on his solo work full-time. He swiftly signed to Full Time Hobby and the appropriately-titled third album, A Brighter Beat, was released in February 2007.

December 2007 witnessed an unlikely turn in Middleton's career as he put himself forward as a contender for Christmas no 1 alongside Sean The Sheep, Mariah Carey and the Xfactor.  Needless to say, the coveted top spot went to fellow Scot Leon Jackon of Xfactor but Middleton made a sizeable dent in the festive 40, being the only independent entry at no 31 with We're All Going To Die. 

Performing under the pseudonym, Human Don't Be Angry, Middleton released a self-titled album (Human Don't Be Angry) in 2012, despite previous claims that he would retire his solo work, Middleton has resumed performing under his own name, alongside his work as Human Don't Be Angry. His most recent album under his own name is, Waxing Gibbous, released on 8 June 2009

www.malcolmmiddleton.co.uk
www.myspace.com/malcolmmiddleton
www.facebook.com/pages/Malcolm-Middleton/6765144471 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Malcolm+Middleton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.