Malevolent supremacy is the foundation of pure evil and carnage. The master composer Lu started on this project on his own 12/12/12 in Oxnard, CA and is currently working on completing the first EP by mid-summer 2013. As the Vocalist Luis Perez brings a unique form of raging highs on vocal and super guttural lows that still seems to find it's melody to create a wide variety of styles and tones wrapped up into one mass of distorted bitter chaos of music.
Malevolent Supremacy Was highly influenced by the works of Putrid Pile, Insidious Decrepancy, and Mortician due to the "unidentified" drummer. other major influences include Gorgasm, Disavowed, Vile, and many other guttural and brutal sadistic death metal bands. These influences are mixed up all into one ballistic hateful genre that fits together for brutal chaos. Connor Pixley(owner of lights absence records) was later brought into the project after the release of MS's first EP. he was able to keep up with the brutal yet fast paced drumming temporary that Lu had created. Connor, added and tweaked the old tracks to fit for a decent live performance as they jammed together and introduced Lu to a new guitarist, Jacob Lopez(guitarist and vocalist/founder for Exotropic Decay, and Donkey Punch). Jacob learn many of the songs Lu had Created and continued to show great talent to keep up with the complex patterns Lu writes with and also continued to add great input for the old MS EP songs. These three have shown great potential and would have continued to have made brutal music together until Jacob's reassignment in late 2014. Later in 2014, the long search for a permanent drummer, Connor decided to quit the roll for Malevolent Supremacy due to personal issues. also in 2014, while Talking with an old friend and band companion, Santos Castro(co founder/guitarist of Inhumanization and severe carnage) was recruited to the band as a backing guitarist/vocalist thus, completing the band for a while. Having the maximum brutality load filled. With the knowledge and skills to mix Grooves from grind and blast beats and fills from death and black metal riffing, Malevolent Supremacy continues to push forward into the elites of Brutal and blacked death metal and grind. Malevolent Supremacy is complete and being made up of some well rounded musicians will continue to destroy venues near you!!! \,,/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Malevolent+Supremacy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.