Find us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/MALEVOLENTFORCE 
About the band: Malevolent Force is a group formed by Marc Rodriguez in Farmville, Virginia. The project started in 2009 when Marc decided to start a new project in the wake of what was left from a relatively uneventful solo project. In early 2010 the very first MALEVOLENT FORCE demos surfaced. The first one being "The Curse". In this form the song was played in over 14 countries via MySpace Music. As the months went on, two more demos were released. The buzz from these instrumental releases inspired musician and record label CEO Steven M. Cassity to approach Marc in late May 2010 with an offer to promote his music farther on his record label. And in June 2010 Marc and Palace Records 86 Music were taking MALEVOLENT FORCE into new musical territories and were becoming very successful very quickly. And in early 2011, the very first MALEVOLENT FORCE offering became available. March 1, 2011 saw the launch of the debut MALEVOLENT FORCE EP, From The Altars Of Heaven To The Gateways Of Hell. The album was 5 tracks and featured finished versions of the popular demos "The Curse", "Born To Rock", and the tribute song to Ronnie James Dio, "Last Journey Home".  The album was an instant success and spawned a cult following and CD sold internationally on release day. 3 days after the release, MALEVOLENT FORCE landed the #3 spot on the local Metal Charts in Farmville, Virginia on ReverbNation. Quick to follow up on the success of the first release, Rodriguez went on to write what would be the second MALEVOLENT FORCE release and what would be his first full-length album. And on February 21, 2012; Theatre Of Madness was released and it spawned 2 very successful singles and music videos for "Vindiction" and "The Blackening".

 In late 2012, Marc expanded the group adding it's first ever vocalist (Kyle Servis), and first bassist (Jared Spicer). Marc recorded all instruments on the first 2 releases himself. In 2013 Malevolent Force will release it's 3rd release also it's 2nd full length studio album. The band plans on expanding the name and brand, and eventually plans on touring, and performing live. You won't wanna miss out on the future, for Malevolent Force is on the front lines of Rock 'n' Roll Revival, and plans on delivering to the fans what the fans want to hear, check us out and keep in touch!

As of late 2013 The band is currently on hiatus until further notice, with plans to continue their third album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Malevolent+Force">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.