1) Maleficarum is an old school Black Metal band from Colombia, formed in 1989. Their first self-titled demo is released in '92.

2) Maleficarum is a death metal band from Termoli, Molise, Italy formed in 1992. They released two full lengths viz. Across The Heavens and Under The Cross and two demos viz. Unblessed and Maleficarum.

Last known line-up,

Marco "Mangler" Radosevich - Vocals
Roberto De Vecchio - Guitar 
Danny Cinicolo - Guitar
Gianni Caralla - Bass 
Carmine Giangiacomo - Drums

Maleficarum roots belong to early 1992, when Danny Cinicolo lead guitarist of the historic Italian Death Band "EXCIDIUM" decides to create a new project band with members from other Italian bands. So he starts to compose new music and search for the band members. Danny contacts his friend Andrea Zanetti, vocals on "ICONOCLAST" and Andrea is very glad to be part of the project. So together they decide to contact Giovanni Grifoni the drummer of "ANGEL DEATH" and ask him if he would like to play with MALEFICARUM. Giovanni likes the idea and starts to rehearse with tha band. On the bass, Danny asks his old friend and band member of EXCIDIUM, Gianni Caralla to complete the line-up and so after only one year the band comes out with their first Demo "UNBLESSED" that soon gets a great success and  a distribution deal in Europe by "MORBID NOISE PRODUCTIONS", and in U.S.A. by "WILD RAGS".
UNBLESSED sells thousands of copies and gets a lot of interest in the Underground scene and after a few months the band gets contacted by "DEFILED RECORDS" for a record deal!!

Their first Album "ACROSS THE HEAVENS" comes out with this label in 1995 and is considered one of the best Italian Death Album of the year.Unfortunatly the band gets some problems with their personal work and so for some year they don't play their music very often!

Now after a period of silence the band is back again with their new Album "UNDER THE CROSS". That contains 9 tracks of pure technical Death Metal!

The band line-up has a change and on vocals there is now Marco "Mangler" Radossevich  of "Cancrena"



3) Maleficarum is black metal band from Brazil.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maleficarum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.