There are 2 artists with the name malignus,
1) Black metal band band from Finland (formed 1997)
2)  Technical death metal band from Melbourne, Australia

1)
Malignus was born at the end of 1997 in Haapajärvi, Finland. Original line-up was Ahmis (vocals and
guitar), Arto Räisälä (guitar), Tomi (bass) and Latex (drums).

First changes happened when Arto Räisälä left the band. Tomi moved from bass to guitar and Rage joined Malignus to fill the empty place of bassist. A.Komu was also rarely seen playing keyboards at
first years of bands history.

The first demo (Tuhon Kaste - free translation "Baptism of Destruction") material was from
'97-'98 and were recorded at the dark and dusty corners of Stolle at the beginning of 1999.
Another visiting session artist, S.Savolainen, was part of Malignus at the end of 1999. He played
percussions and took care of background vocals.

Spring 2000, Voci dal Profondo joined the band as second vocalist and at fall Malignus recorded the
second demo "Enkeli Varjojen" (free translation "Angel of Shadows") in Studio BRR (Raahe/Finland).

Then there was a "break" which lasted for about an year and after that the line-up was changed again: Latex left the band and was replaced by R.Repola. At the summer 2003 new guitarist, Kaattari, joined the band. Idea behind this was that Ahmis could focus on vocals.

Spring 2004 yet another demo was released, "Psykoosi (Psychosis)", which was recorded with various equipment and crew. Among quests were Requiem drummer J. Huttunen and Teardown keyboardist Pipsa. N.

Slowly Malignus slipped in drowse as everyone had their own things which kept them busy, but 2007 spring they returned to share their punishment amongst men. J. Huttunen stabilized
his place as drummer. The band is currently rehearsing their old stuff and plans to start composing their fourth release. 

2)
Malignus is a technical death metal band from Melbourne. 

Ben - Vocals
Lance - Guitar
Sam - Guitar
Wayne - Bass
Yari - Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Malignus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.