Maligno is Stoner/ Doom band from Garralupe, Nuevo León, Mexico

Band`s MySpace Page: http://www.myspace.com/malignodoom

Band members:

IVAN TAMEZ / GUITARS
ANDRES SAENZ / DRUMS 
MARCO GIL / BASS 
ZEF VEGA / GUITAR
LUIS BARJAU / VOCAL

Bio:  Maligno was born in 2004, with the desire of every member in the band to go back to their roots. After years of experimenting with different musical projects. Due to their musical background the band decided to pay homage to the most influential heavy metal band of all time: BLACK SABBATH. During several gigs throughout the country the band decided it was time to write original material. After months of rehearsals and composing, Maligno finally finished 10 songs wich are captured on the groups first album. The resulting sound is a mixture of their 70s metal influences and others that each member contributed. finishing in a progressive but agressive brand of doom metal. the album was recorded and produced by maligno at la nave studios in monterrey n.l. MEXICO, and it was mastered by Colin Davis (Vile) at Imperial Mastering L.A. Maligno has participated in some of the most important metal festivals in latin america like: Monterrey metalfest 3 with blind guardian, U.D.O, Cathedral, Obituary, Sadus, Deicide, Edguy, Union metalfest with Mexico..s most renown metal bands, Mago de oz fest with Mago de oz, U.D.O, Warcry, Cage, and recently has been selected to support Guns N Roses on the mexican leg of their 2007 world tour. In 2008 Maligno started recording their second album titled UNIVERSEVIL at La Nave studios in Monterrey Mexico produced and recorded by the band and mastered by Alan Douches (MASTODON, HIGH ON FIRE, THE DILLINGER ESCAPE PLAN) at West West side music in NY and the cover art was designed by MALA SUERTE vocalist Gary Rosas, wich is going to be released in september 1st 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maligno">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.