MALKAVIAN gathered in summer 2001, the intention was grind.
The founding 4-piece featured members of Phoenix, Crushing Belial, and Shinn, and despite various difficulties no changes occur in our line-up untill early 2002, when the line up is completed by Belmont as a permanent bassist. 
We performed an extremely brutal and violent metal, heavily influenced by the hardcore scene.
We recorded our first self-produced demo in late 2001 and played several shows the following year. 
In september we recorded our debut full-length at Hombrelobo studios (Rome) and the record came out in december 2003 for Massacro Records. 
Problems of various kinds, mainly related to university obbligations have slowed down our work, many of these were hard to overcome, but the passion and energy behind this band was so strong that things finally worked out.

...the present

After 3 years of struggles Malkavian are finally a full-time project. 
The difficulties are still here, but our renewed love for total grind will keep the band alive in blasphemy!
The key of the new mentality we have embraced is Malkavian's new line up: G.Belmont has left, the four original sinners have strengthend their bond and no one else is needed!
Malkavian are back with a vengeance

...the future

With Supreme Rex Platanorum on bass and backing vocals the band will take a new approach to grind. 
The self released-and-self-recorded PROMO MMV is the first ground-breaking result of the devastating changes that have taken place. The band’s musical approach is now complete flesh-ripping, heart-hammering, christ-pissing, death metal, but the attitude and mentality still celebrate the glorious domain of grind.
What the music aims for is an impressive in your face impact, acheived through a detailed and elaborate composition of evil metal.
Grow your hair and grow your beard, ripp-off you sleeves, corpse-paint your face and cover your chest in blood, this new bastard hybrid of metal, fury, energy and blasphemy has hammered its way through all the shit you have been listening to...join us in this quest, always pushing against the mainstream and double kicking for satan... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Malkavian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.