There are 7 bands that share the name Mammoth and one band formerly known as Mammoth:

(UK) 1. After the split of Gillan in 1982, the bearded John McCoy (bass guitar; 19 stone) recruited session musicians 'Tubby' Vinnie Reed (drums; 22 stone), 'Big' Mac Baker (guitars; 24 stone) and Nicky Moore (vocals; 20 stone and 5'6") for his solo project.
Initially christened 'Dinosaur', they changed their names after complaints from a similarly titled California blues outfit.
Changing their name to 'Mammoth', the band toured with Whitesnake and Marillion and were generally well-received by fans, although an "incident" in Leeds meant that the band had to request a specially reinforced stage at all future gigs, due to the concentrated pressure of some 1200 pounds (plus  allowance for on stage exuberance).
After a few years of touring without hitting the big-time in the manner of their contemporaries, the band decided to call it a day, and moved onto other solo projects.

The band appeared in the 1988 film Just Ask For Diamond, where they played the henchmen of the Fat Man (Michael Robbins).

The Album (Mammoth)

Produced in 1987 (after the band had ceased touring), this eponymous title received a limited edition release on American indie label, Jive. As the band's nostalgic popularity increased, the few records that were released became collector's items - vinyl copies of the album trading hands for as much as £60.

(NZ) 2.  Mammoth first formed in late 2006 with the current line-up (louis - vocals & violin, geoff - guitar, richard - guitar, benjamin - bass & warwick - drums) coming together in October 2008. Mammoth delivers haunting passages that shift into crushing rhythms, with sparse yet soaring vocals to give insights into, and reflections of, our own pale existence. Mammoth has just released their debut, self-titled EP, 'Mammoth' (2009). The band is focusing on new material and is currently unsigned.


(US)3.Mammoth is a post rock/ambient/shoegaze band based out of Pekin Illinois.  There debut split came out in 09 with Drifts.

(US)4. The band Van Halen was formerly known as Mammoth from 1972-1974 when the band consisted of Eddie Van Halen, Alex Van Halen, and Mark Stone; later David Lee Roth would join and Mark Stone would be fired and Michael ANthony would be brought in. The band would soon discover there was another band by the name of Mammoth and Dave would suggest they change the name to Van Halen. 

(US)5.  MAMMOTH were born in early 2006 and consist of 5 like-minded musicians, from the Adelaide area, who really do love what they play. Terrorizer magazine once said "Mammoth's riffs should be housed in the natural history museum!!". The band has an incredible hard rock sound, while at the same time, have a heaviness and catchy-ness that rival the heavist bands one could think of, while still maintaining a very organic feel and sound to the songs that seem to capture the attention of all who hear or see MAMMOTH. They are in the same genre as DOWN, CORROSION OF CONFORMITY, CROWBAR, SABBATH, SKYNYRD etc etc...kinda stoner rock/southern metal . They licensed our 1st album "The Calling" to a small indie aussie label called Wolfcastle Records and it was released here in Oz and New Zealand on December 10, 2010, as well as itunes and is distributed through MGM, through Green Media. 

(US)6. Mammoth is a rapper from the town of Sodus, NY. He raps throughout the Monroe county Area and is on his way up.
7) Mammoth is a heavy metal band from Brazil.
They formed in 1984, released Possessed 7'' and a track in the São Power compilation (1986). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mammoth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.