Man Of The Hour were a 5 piece heavy metal band from Edinburgh, Scotland.

Man of the hour formed early 2003 with the aim of making heavy metal. Inflenced by bands such as Pantera, Judas Priest, Manowar, Black Sabbath, Motorhead & Metallica: Man Of The Hour sought to forge themselves a sound filled with screams & twin leads. After a few months together, Man Of The Hour recorded the ‘Volume 1’ EP and played as many gigs around Scotland as possible. The climax of 2003 was a support with heavy metal heroes 3 Inches Of Blood.

Starting 2004 with a well received Scottish headline tour; they immediately started work on an LP ‘Skull Orchard’ which they promoted live throughout the UK with some key supports with Nazareth, Tokyo Dragons & Hayseed Dixie. 2004 was finished off with another headline tour.

‘Skull Orchard’ and its NWOBHM meets Pantera sound had turned a few heads and so in 2005 Man Of The Hour were honoured to support the legends Anthrax, Paul Di’anno, Cathedral & Conquest Of Steel.
However man of the hour caught the attention of No Face records with an intense performance of heavy metal at ‘The Dungeon Fest’ also featuring Evile, Nailed, Achren & Mistress amongst other amazing UK metal bands.

In 2006 Man of the hour went to Dundee (home of the Beano!) to record ‘Destroy The Machines Of Slaughter’. Man Of The Hour were honoured for thrash metal supreme Jeff Waters of Annihilator offered to master the LP which resulted in it sounding even more heavy metal than it already did.

2007 started with Man Of The Hour signing with No Face Records, home to Conquest Of Steel & The Prophecy. ‘Destroy The Machines Of Slaughter’ was scheduled for a July 07 release. In the meantime some amazing supports with Armoured Saint, Firewind & Grand Magus kept Man Of The Hour busy.

Man of the Hour supported Black Label Society 2 days after ‘Destroy The Machines Of Slaughter’ was released. The same month the Conan inspired track ‘Red Nails’ appeared on Terrorizers Fear Candy 43 CD, gaining the band more recognition.

In October Man Of the hour embarked on a succseful UK tour, namely the 'Stronger United UK Tour' with Panic Cell & Forever Never, having a great time and infecting many people with lycanthropy along the way! The year ended with a UK tour in support to Finnish hard drinking folk metal outfit Korpiklaani, which was great.

2008 started with a Scottish tour with Panic Cell. The year saw more shows with bands such as Ravens Creed, Orange Goblin, Alestorm and The Exploited.

Man of the Hour started work on their third LP early 2009, recording demos at Studio 24 Edinburgh where Skull Orchard was recorded. The songs were all about werewolves. In the summer they embarked on the 'Rawhead Tour' to try out the new songs before recording them. A set back appeared when Matt Justice left to join punk legends The Exploited at the end of the year. The remaining four, took a few months off to write new material and start the very difficult task of finding a replacement.

In January 2010  vocalist Tommy Concrete decided to leave the band to concentrate on playing guitar. As no replacement for Matt Justice had been found, Man of the Hour decided to call it a day after 7 years of heavy metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Man+of+the+Hour">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.