Man Among Stars began its activity in late 2004 by picking the best pieces from the remnants of two other projects undertook by the original members. The projects were Carpathia and Abnoba, and the members Sigismund, Şerban and Enthroll. These projects were not the only ones that produced a strong influence on what was to become Man Among Stars: Sigismund is also, to this day, the sole member of a project that bears his name dating from 2003, while Şerban has only recently decided to end the activity of his own one-man project, entitled Tenebreant, after a three year existence. The latter has also participated in projects such as Codru, Anamorphoza, and Dying Dreams (a band that he founded along with Enthroll back in 1999). Carpathia and Abnoba proved to be unfitting directions for the ideologies and desires of said members, but nonetheless a favorable experience, which only went on to improve the beginnings of M.A.S. Carpathia was sooner put aside, while Abnoba maintained a presence, as will be mentioned. 


The first Man Among Stars album, Beginning, was recorded "live in studio", the "studio" being the rehearsal space of the band (all releases are, thus far, self-produced), in the spring of 2005. Vocals were recorded separately. The line-up was as follows: Sigismund - guitar/vocals; Enthroll - bass; Şerban - drums/vocals. The only song dating from before that is "Tabes", which is an original Abnoba composition. 

Soon after, work began on the second release. It was not long before recordings also began again, only two months or so, after finalizing the first album. The start of the recording sessions also saw the departure of Enthroll, which left the bass parts to be played by Şerban and Sigismund. No replacement was needed for Enthroll during the work on the second release, which was finished in the summer of 2005, under the name of Shining. Line-up: Sigismund - all guitars/bass/some vocals; Şerban - drums and percussion/bass/vocals.

After this, followed a time of reconstruction, which meant the changing and adding of hardware, a new rehearsal space and a short participation from Fenrir on bass. Fenrir left the band shortly before work began on the third album.

The sessions for what in the end came to be "Via Lucis", the third release, were long and sporadic due to the lack of time and possibilities.Therefore, the amount of material that in the previous cases was finalised in a couple of months took almost a year this time."Via Lucis" was presented with the previous line-up, consisting of Sigismund on all guitars and bass and Şerban on drums and vocals only.At this point, the band took a short brake from playing in order to be able to look back and learn from the experiences, rethink and plan for the future. 


At the beginning of 2007, Man Among Stars started the work on the fourth material with the help of two temporary members, but this experience soon proved to be an unnatural approach for the way the band is meant to express itself, and for the creative freedom of the two.Thus, the decision was made for Man Among Stars to remain in a two-man formula indefinitely, sacrificing method for the sake of inspiration. Along the way plans were made to release two distinct albums at the same time but this never happened, so, in autumn, "Columna" was finalised, a material containing only two tracks.


The break that followed was maybe the longest in the duo's history to date. In this time some connections were made to other people present in the romanian extreme metal scene, which lead to a project for a compilation of carefully chosen romanian bands, each participating with a one-time-only song (to be composed just for this, and not featured on any other release). Due to lack of interest, time, or capabilities the idea for the compilation soon turned into a 5-way, then, at the end of 2008,a 4-way split.

Around this time Ciprian of Kandaon, who put the split in motion along with Şerban and Sigismund, moved to Bucharest and after a brief and conclusive try-out became Man Among Stars's bass player, together with Ionuţ Popa on vocals, thus the band becoming for the first time a foursome. With this line-up, things moved quickly toward the release of "Hell has no gate, yet men will dig to enter" at the end of April 2009, the split featuring Man Among Stars, Sigismund, Kandaon and NocturN, a band from Timisoara. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Man+Among+Stars">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.