Mana is the name of more than one artist and an incorrect tag for Maná, Maña and Mána.

1) Japanese musician and fashion designer
2) UK electro/remix group
3) Indian singer
4) Japanese guitarist and composer
5) Slovenian Contemporary Christian Band
6) Ron Rüegg, Thom Egli, Claudio Catatore & Mathis Roth
7) Raphael Schumann
8) New Zealand MC
9) drummer, member of Lordi
10) American Underground Hip hop Artist
11) Italian electronic musician

1 - Japanese musician 
Mana is a Japanese musician and fashion designer, famed for his role as a leader and guitarist of the influential visual kei band MALICE MIZER. It is said that he is widely considered the figurehead of Japan’s Gothic Lolita fashion movement, as he helped popularize it. Now he focuses on his solo project Moi dix Mois.

Mana was born on March 19 in Hiroshima; his real name remains unknown despite the multiple rumours, one of them suggesting Manabu Satou. At an early age, Mana was introduced to classical music by his parents, who were both music teachers; classical music has remained an influence ever since. Mana has said that he started making music when he was in high school, at which time he listened to Mötley Crüe. Typically, Mana’s compositions blend classical music (especially baroque music, featuring pipe organ and harpsichord; he also likes music by Johann Sebastian Bach) with heavy metal music, alternative rock, industrial music and other more unlikely elements such as french pop music. In a 2006 interview, Mana revealed that he has no formal training in music theory.

Bands:
* Ves.Tearge 
* Girl’e - Guitar 
* 摩天楼 (Matenrou) - Bass 
* MALICE MIZER - Guitars, Keyboard, Programming 
* Moi dix Mois - Guitars, Keyboard, Programming 

11 - Italian electronic musician
Mana is producer and composer Daniele Mana from Torino in Italy. Since 2010 he has been releasing under the moniker Vaghe Stelle, with EPs and two full length albums on labels such as Gang of Ducks, Aisha Devi’s Danse Noire, Astro:Dynamics and Nicolas Jaar’s Other People records. He is also a member of One Circle with Lorenzo Senni and Francesco Fantini. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mana">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.