There are multiple bands with the name Mandrake:

1) Mandrake is a German gothic metal, brought to life by Lutz de Putter in the wastelands of Northern Germany ("Ostfriesland") in the late '90s. In 1998, the self-produced album "Forever" was recorded, presenting the band as a mixture of slow death metal with elements of gothic metal. Female vocals were rare and sung by a guest vocalist. In 1999 Birgit Lau joined the band and her part became bigger and bigger. After several demos, in 2003, Mandrake signed a contract with the label Greyfall/Prophecy Productions.
The label-debut, "Calm the Seas", was released at the end of 2003. For the first time, this record presents the current line-up with Garvin Bösch on bass and Jörg Uken on drums. Live keyboardist Julius Martinek also became a full member, but soon preferred electric guitars.
The music of Mandrake is voluptuous, sometimes epic, sometimes fragile, supported by 'real' strings, low guitars and powered by pounding drums. Above all, the significant voice of Birgit. Lyrics and music often deal with the forces of nature, especially water, and the desire to reach distant shores and galaxies.
The term 'mandrake' ('mandragora') is taken from a poisonous plant which is a symbol for spiritual and supernatural powers.

2) Mandrake was an obscure progressive rock band from Japan. The band was formed in the mid-70s by Susumu Hirasawa as one of the pioneers of native original progressive rock music in Japan. Mandrake has little recorded history outside of Japan, and their two lone recordings were not released until the early nineties, well after the band's demise. These releases seem to be largely in response to the popularity of Hirasawa's work since Mandrake and in a renewed interest in early Japanese progressive recordings.
After Mandrake's demise in 1978 Susumu Hirasawa formed a new wave band under the name P-MODEL.

3) Mandrake is an experimental / electronica producer, originally from Akaroa, New Zealand.

4) Mandrake was an obscure and short-lived band from USA, active in the '70s. Hard rock and nice acid quitar solos.

5) Mandrake is a Czech melodic heavy metal band.

6) Mandrake is an acoustic quartet from Oakland, USA, playing a very original take on indie / prog rock. The band line-up was solidified in 2004. Since then Mandrake has shared the stage with a string a great acts including Two Gallants, Rogue Wave, Audrye Sessions, Etienne de Rocher, Kelley Stoltz, Sean Hayes and many more. Official website: http://mandrakeband.com

7) Mandrake is a Dutch progressive rock band, formed in 2008.

8) Mandrake is a stoner doom metal band from Chile.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mandrake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.