Manes started around the end of 1992/early 93. It started as a project with Sargatanas on vocals and Cern on guitars, synths, programming etc. – basically everything besides the vocals. With that line-up Manes recorded the three demos „Maanens natt” (93), „Ned i stillheten” (94) and „Til kongens grav de døde vandrer” (95). The two first demos was later re-released by the Hammerheart Records sub-label „Unveiling the Wicked” in 98. In 99 the album „Under ein blodraud maane” was released by Hammerheart Records as well, and it was simply a re-recording of various tracks from the three previous demos. Cern felt the project became more and more of a burden as he had spurs of no motivation, troubles with disease, little or no interest in the growing metal-scene etc.etc. – so, to activate the band again he chose to include a full line-up, Sargatanas left the band, and after a while a contract was signed with the Italian label Code666 - where the second Manes full-length Vilosophe was released in 2003. The album was recorded at Skansen Studio in Manes’ hometown Trondheim, and the music was labelled “Neo Avant Metal” by Code666, but the band themselves choose to ignore this rather silly “description”, and simply call the music a dark mix of metal and rock with electronic elements.

Official Website: http://www.manes.no/

On the first of January 2008, manes split up, and Cern formed kkoagulaa. In July 2013, however, the band resurfaced, promising an upcoming album recorded with the same lineup as Vilosophe, and linking to a new song "blanket of ashes".


There was a second band with name Manes which after two demos evolved into Ved Buens Ende. These two bands named Manes released a split together in 2009.

the "manes meckenstock - kinner hat dich selfs jemaht" album (listed in the album section), is not this band.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Manes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.