1. Three music junkies meet up in underground club "Stereo45" to have some drinks in 2005. One of them is panning to beat another, cos he's paying too much attention to his girlfriend.

2. Boys have to much vodka and decide to go to decks, while DJ is in WC and hack them. DJ's back, three stooges are spinning their own records without mixing them properly.

3. They call themselves "Nesakyk Mamai!" (eng. Don't Tell Ya Mom) and play riot music to dance to. Some dancers manage to make out or fade out. No casualties. Few babies born comming year.

4. Once they are mixing with pliers and after they pay for the damaged goods, youth guide 'Ore' picks NM! as DJs of The Year in Lithuania. The same happens next year.

5. After warming up parties for the likes of Carl Craig, Felix Da Housecat, Zombie Nation & Andrew Weatherall, they decide that it's quite fine, but feel the itch of having their own record.

6. Tune "No Front Teeth' is finished. Guys call the style 'Bruce Lee On Acid', or 'Bukowski's Life Pressed Up In 8 Minutes'. The track get some attention.

7. NM! change the name, cos it's unpronouncable for western tongues. Oh, and they think it's Indian tribe or something. Kraftwerk's 'Metal On Metal' is to blame.

8. Skint gets interested, signs. Boys clap hands! Norman Cook, Annie Mac, Kissy Sell Out, Groove Armada. Pete Tong support. Boys clap hands until they bleed. Radio One plays it quite a few times.

9. They remix Datarock's "I Used To Dance With My Daddy" just for themselves. It is released one and half year later. Magic!

1o. Metal On metal debut live in Manchester's 'Eurocultured' festival. 'They are rather good', metallers overhear one pretty girl telling to another. They believe and prepare visually enhanced live version for future touring. Debut comes alive in joint concert with Gus Gus.

10. Remix requests finally arrive, all fullfiled after deadline: Tim Deluxe, New Young Pony Club, Kissy Sell Out, Blood Red Shoes.

11. DJ Mag, iDJ, blogs publish profiles on 'upcoming Lithuanians'. Reviews of the single are favorable, oooph.

12.Bloc Party send "Flux', ask for remix, Metal On Metal deliver without hesitation. On November 14th, 2007 it goes on the cover of NME, as a free cd. Metal On Metal buy 8 copies. For moms, you know.

13. The video is shot. It is in colour and premieres on MTV Baltic in December, 2007. 'Less Metal Edit' of 'No Front Teeth' goes on air in radio.

14. Metal On Metal fall on the floor after hearing Anvil's 'Metal On Metal'. The are fascinated that the song about them is written way back in time.

15. Remix for delightful Wax Stag's "Short Road" is done & played and is not a lullaby.

16. Metallers are in studio putting together their new tunes. Working title of EP: "Slaughterhouse".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Manfredas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.