1. Mangled was a Death metal band from the Netherlands. Mangled was formed back in 1989, first under the name Abdominal Bleeding, by Pepijn Houwen, Erwin Hermsen and Wilko Reynders, followed by Harold Gielen and Paul Dunn in 1991. 

 The first demo "Cadaverous" was recorded in 1992 and contained three songs. In total 200 copies were sold. The second demo "Perish" was recorded in 1993. After selling 1000 copies worldwide Mangled signed an agreement with Wild Rags Records to release the "Perish" demo on CD format. The MCD appeared in 1995. 

 In the same year Paul Dunn decided to quit because of personal reasons. A few months later in 1996 also Wilko Reynders decided to stop because of the increasing activities with his record label "Fadeless Records". Shortly after this Floris de Jonge joined Mangled to take his place. Mangled recorded one new song called "Bathe In Blood" to appear on a single CD called "...In Emptiness". 

 At the end of 1996 Mangled recorded 11 complete new songs, including Bathe In Blood. Wild Rags Records released "...In Emptiness" in 1997 and meanwhile Loek Peeters joined Mangled to play bass guitar. In 1998 Mangled signed a deal with Fadeless Records to release the earlier recorded material on a full length CD entitled "Ancient Times". The CD was released the same year. 

 In the end of 1999, Mangled recorded the cover-song "Visions from the Dark Side", to appear on "Scream Forth Blasphemy", a tribute to Morbid Angel by Dwell Records. In 2000 Mangled signed a deal with The Plague, which is part of Hammerheart Records, for one CD. 

 In the same year the recordings for this CD took place. In between they recorded the cover song "A Skull Full Of Maggots" to appear on a tribute CD to Cannibal Corpse, also released by Dwell Records. On the 27th of February 2001, Mangled released their latest assault "Most Painful Ways". In march bass-player Loek Peeters decided to quit Mangled because he wanted to focus his attention fully on his other bands. Shortly after this Wim Vossen joined Mangled to take his place. To promote the new album Mangled played a lot of gigs and festivals in 2001. 

 Meanwhile up to 5 new songs have been written and soon an advance tape will be recorded for promotional use. With this tape Mangled will prove that they belong to the top league of the Dutch Death metal scene. Hopefully in the end of 2002 a complete new full length album can be recorded and released early 2003. Record labels that are interested... just wait for the promo...

 The band split up as friends in July of 2006.



2. Mangled is a Gore-drenched thrashing death metal band brought to you by Atlanta's finest psychopaths.
http://mangledmetal.bandcamp.com/
https://www.facebook.com/pages/Mangled/270014239690739
Biography: An often talked about and seldom-witnessed group of serial-killing maniacs, first mentioned in an eyewitness testimony to a kidnapping case in 2011. Churning out speed-laden septic riffage, chunky hooks, and ghastly accounts of the crimes they have committed, Mangled unapolagetically deal out their own special brand of SEWER METAL. Mild mannered members of the populace by day, by night they are found using the subterranean cover of the Atlanta city waterworks to outwit the authorities as they snatch, imprison, mutilate and mangle any citizens unfortunate enough to cross paths with MANGLED!

Description:
As you come groggily back to consciousness, the cold, dank stench of long-stagnant pools and decades of unchecked mold fills your nose. Drips echo off of the brick walls as water splashes to the ground all around you . As your eyes adjust, you realize you are not alone. Four figures close in toward you adorned in blood-soaked aprons. While fighting uselessly against your restraints, you become surrounded. They lift their scalpels high above their heads... It is the last thing you will ever see!

Band Interests:
sewer system layouts and schematics, sloppy incisions, iceboxes full of mysterious cuts, getting laid like all the time

Discography:
2012 - "Tales from Beneath the Street vol.1" - Demo
2012 - "Sewer Metal" - EP <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mangled">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.