Albuquerque, N.M., late 1993, guitarist Drew “M” Ruiz, and bassist “Bloody” Gary Garcia set out to form a brutal death/groove/grind band. After extensive deliberation this band inherited the name Manîas pronounced Man-I-as.

Local live shows and an extensive tour of Mexico drew immediate attention to the band. Main songwriter Drew was greatly inspired by the reaction and support of the fans in Mexico. He felt the need to repay them the only way he knew possible. That was to write lyrics in Spanish, and christen the band with a Spanish name to be used exclusively in Mexico. That name was “Salé Sangre”. Confusion arose about the bands' name because of this unique concept. Never the less “Manîas-Salé Sangre” (the band with two names), forged ahead and became known as “brutal bilingual” death metal. Prior to recording their first demo in 1995, bassist “Bloody Gary” was asked to depart due to substance abuse. Drew has gone through many line-up changes since. “Manîas” has had many trials and tribulations throughout the years, worst of which happened in early 1999, when Drew “M” Ruiz, was arrested for transporting a quantity of marijuana. Before Drew was sentenced to five years in federal prison in Oct., 1999, “Manîas” recorded its first full length CD on “Entrapment records” (now “Dead World Syndicate” Rec.), entitled “Identity Crisis”. “Identity Crisis” is an anthology of past demos, and the then ‘new' songs. This CD was released while Drew was serving his sentence, Manîas-Salé Sangre couldn't tour to support it. After 40 months behind the fence, in March 2003, Drew is released and is back fulfilling his promise to continue on this “brutal bilingual” path. It has been 4 years since Manîas is back in the forum. With the help of talented musicians: Daniel Herrera: guitar, Nick Linke: bass, Eric Salazar on drums, & vocalist Pablo Gonzalez, main front man Drew Manîas: guitar/vocals and all of Manîas contribute to the latest material. Give a listen and know that this countries penal system breeds anger and hate in its purest form.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Manias">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.