Manimal refers to different bands :

1) Manimal is a metal band from Toulouse, France. Its members come from French bands Psykup (singer Julien Cassarino aka Ju, drummer Brice Sansonetto, guitar player David Castel aka Vidda ), Leiden (guitar player Ludovic aka Luddo), and Sailenth (bass player Fabrice).
The band defines itself as "Faith no More mixed up with Cannibal Corpse", and uses the tag "open death" to refer to their own music (more exhuberant and progressive than classical death metal).

Manimal was formed in June 2003, and shortly after recorded its first demo (available for free at manimal.org). With these first tracks at the heart of their 2004 debut album, "Eros & Thanatos", the band received good critics from the French metal community. Manimal then started its first national tour, and wrote their second album "Succube" which eventually came out fall 2005.

Both albums were recorded at the "Les Milans" Studio, in Bordeaux, which is also the studio that uses French death metal - and critically acclaimed band - Gojira.

In 2012 the band called it quit.

Trivia 
Gojira mainman Joe Duplantier is featured on 'Dead Meat', a title from "Eros & Thanatos".
On the second album "Succube", each track bears a movie title. Manimal thus unveils its broadly movie-oriented inspiration.

Julien Cassarino's sister, Elodie Cassarino also lays some vocals for Manimal.

Discography 
Eros & Thanatos (2004)
Succube (2005)

Official websites 
www.manimal.org
www.myspace.com/manimale

2) Manimal is also a Rap band from France.

3) There is also a Swedish metal band called Manimal. 
Official Website  
www.manimal.nu

4) A Dutch Garagerock/Surf-Freak--Trash Band from Delft/Amsterdam
    www.myspace.com/manimalholland
    http://www.facebook.com/home.php#!/pages/Manimal/108685135820329

5)   At the 90’s it was born at Vitória’s island, Espírito Santo, a new rhythm that mixes the local culture with the world pop music, the ROCKCONGO, created by MAHNIMAL, a band compound by brothers and lifelong friends, all according to the Congo’s tradition, a typical capixaba’s folkloric manifestation.

 Since then, the band is on the road making public their differentiated sound and conquering some eminence and  awards wherever they go. The first one was a jingles contest that allowed the MAHNIMAL’S first phonographical register. In July, 96, it was the occasion of winning the best arrangement’s prize at the National Music Festival, in Alegre, ES, among 360 inscriptioned songs, where MAHNIMAL showed, for the first time, the Rockongo to a big audience (about 20 thousand people), only two months later, the band was finalist of “LES DECOUVERTS DE RFI” (International Radio France) that has considered Mahnimal one of the eight best works of the Latin America and Caribe, among 440 bands of the whole world, besides has been elected the EXPO 98’s Revelation band, in Lisboa – Portugal. Transcending the country limits, Mahnimal did more than 80 presentations in 5 tours by Europe, traveling by Alemanha, Suiça, U.K, Portugal, Espain, France, Itály, Bélgium e Holand showing up on the biggest European summer festivals like the 41° MONTREUX JAZZ FESTIVAL (Suiça), LONDON CALLING (UK), SFINKS e POLE POLE FESTIVAL (Bélgium), EL GREC (Espain), EXPO 98 (Portugal), FESTIGAL (Galicia) Hammersmith Palais (UK) among others, besides shows in night clubs and even on the street.

  With the same structure since it has appeared, ten years ago, the group is nowadays one of the most respected bands of Espírito Santo and responsible for the inclusion of the Congo’s rhythm in the pop world. Mahnimal presents the rhythm side by side with the rock, reggae , samba, ticumbi, jongo, electronic music,  MPB and pop. A real musical volcano that has one foot at the modernity and another at the popular 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Manimal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.