Helsinki stoner/doom act Mannhai was formed in the end of 1999 by guitarist Ilkka Laaksomaa and erstwhile Amorphis bassist Oppu Laine. Shortly after forming they were accompanied by a young drummer, Junior Pietinen. The band's quick composing process led them to the studio only four months later, where they recorded three songs, which were still completely instrumental. With those three heavy tracks, Joanitor Muurinen, the ex-Xysma frontman, was allured to the band.

By the end of 2000 Mannhai signed a deal with the leading Finnish record company Spinefarm Records. On the 24th of January 2001 Mannhai started to record their debut album, 'The Sons Of Yesterday's Black Grouse', at the Seawolf studios in Helsinki. The album was soon licenced to Nuclear Blast's subsidiary Revolution label for the European release in September 2001.

Mannhai announced the arrival of a sophomore album, entitled 'Evil Under the Sun', for a late 2002 release through Spinefarm Records. It would include a cover version of 'A New Day Yesterday' originally by Jethro Tull. 

Mannhai members guitarist Mikko Raita and drummer Mikko 'Junior' Pietinen forged a progressive Rock act dubbed Luokkasota, featuring Finntroll and Moonsorrow keyboard player Henri Sorvali and Prode bassist Jussi Korhonen. Working with producer Jürgen Hendlmeier at Soundtracks studio in Helsinki Mannhai cut their third album 'The Exploder' for February 2004 release, this date later put back to April. Vocalist Joanitor Muurinen exited in November to be replaced by Trond 'The Wolf' Skog from Norwegian band Honcho. 

Mannhai teamed up with Swedes The Awesome Machine for the 'Double Stoner Treatment' co-headlining European commencing mid-April. However, trond Skog exited suddenly midway through this trek on 19th April. Pulled in as quickfire replacement to complete the dates would be the Amorphis, Ajattara and Shape of Despair credited Pasi Koskinen. 

An interesting diversion for Finnish Metal fans came in on 4th August 2005 when the Mannhai credited bassist Oppu Laine, keyboard player Kasper Martenson and drummer Mikko Pietinen partnered with lead guitarist Markku "Crazy" Heiskanen of Havana Black and Nalle Österman, of Chaosbreed, Lullacry and Gandalf repute, to put in a one off tribute show to The Doors with a band entitled The Blue Horse. 

The band's first single of 2006, January's 'Spacebell', which entered the Finnish charts at no. 1, included an exclusive non-abum track ''The Rocketeer'. That April Mannhai contracted with Germany's Dockyard 1 Records to issue the 'Hellroad Caravan' album in Europe. In May Mannhai performed a three day consecutive run of gigs at the Ice Hockey World Championships venue in Riga, Latvia. Summer shows saw the temporary installation of Nalle Österman from Sonic Roots on drums. Mannhai partnered with Sweden's Truckfighters for European touring in October 2006. 

In November Mannhai donated their rendition of the Jürgen Hendlmeier produced 'Forever My Queen' to a Pentagram tribute 7" split single shared with fellow Finnish Doom act Reverend Bizarre released by The Church Within Records.


Official homepage:

http://www.mannhai.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mannhai">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.