Map Of Hell were a Southampton-based extreme doom trio who rose from the ashes of Green Hearse and recorded two rehearsal tracks in 2002.

Clive Henry: bass/vocals
Mat Sweet: guitar
Chris Chantler: drums

"Map of Hell makes slow-motion doom metal that should please the newfound legions of post-Nordic sludge enthusiasts currently clamoring over records by Earth, Sunn O))), Khanate and Black Boned Angel. Unlike Randolph Carter, Map of Hell is a full group: M. Sweet on guitar, Clive Henry on "deathgrunt" and unknown quantities bass and drums. MOH's particular brand of crushing death rock is a bit more tuneful and less abstract than the aforementioned acts, and their lengthy excursions tend to stay grounded in something approaching melody and forward momentum, but the low-fidelity recording style constantly pushes the band's considerable bottom-end into the red zone of distortion. This creates ugly squalls of noise that obscure the group's dynamics, forcing attention onto the compounding sediment that clings to every downcast riff, accompanied by what vocals that sound like the disembodied roars of a giant robotic lion with its tail being held to a flame. The drumming is the most impressive element, reigning in the chaotic spray of muddy guitar noise, creating an insulating architecture amidst the poisonous, choking smoke filling the air. It's an undeniably hellish concoction that thankfully does not wear out its welcome by the 32-minute mark, though I must admit that I might already be tired of the whole "subterranean metal" subgenre at this point. I still think that there are some unparalleled classics of the genre—Earth's Extra-Capsular Extraction and Sunn O)))'s White 1—that I will probably enjoy forever, but the sheer amount of this stuff being released right now can't help but cheapen even a sincere effort like Map of Hell's debut, though it's worth noting that this album was recorded back in 2002, well before the crest of the wave. The liner notes contain some cut-ups that contribute thematic justification to the relentlessly negative riffage on the album, not that you ever really need an excuse to wallow in a pit of twisted, low-end metal debris." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Map+Of+Hell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.