At least Six bands go by the name Maps:

1.  MAPS is from Northampton, UK. This page is the official page for this artist.

The music is made by James Chapman, with August joining in for live stuff. Their debut album 'We Can Create' was released in April 2007 on Mute Records and their growing fanbase includes the likes of the Chemical Brothers. They were shortlisted for the well respected 2007 Mercury Music Prize album of the year, which saw their profile rise dramatically. The download-only single from Maps' second album - 'Let Go Of The Fear' was released in May 2009, new album 'Turning The Mind' was released late summer.

2. MAPS is also an instrumental rock band from Nashville, TN. They formed in February 2005 "in a town where instrumental music is virtually non-existent". Within a year MAPS had played with post-rock heavyweights like Foxhole and Unwed Sailor and released their first demo titled “The Occidental EP” in February 2006. From there regional touring took place and the band recorded and released their first full length album “Oh, That Our Heads Were Waters” in November 2006. They have shared the stage with bands like Foxhole, Unwed Sailor, Caspian, Constants, Gifts from Enola, Cinemechanica and The Ascent of Everest among many others known in the instrumental scene. MAPS are currently recording their second full-length album to be released in April 2008 and followed by extensive touring around the US.

3. Another MAPS, aka Model American Plays Secretly, used to be just Model American, but had to change their name for legal reasons.
They are re-releasing the Model American record, under the name MAPS, which stands for Model American Playing Secretly, a moniker the band adopted to play in places they had been banned from. The title of the record will be "Model American."

4.Maps, born Mario Paez, is causing seismic shockwaves throughout the Miami music scene with his mix of Ska, Punk, and Hip Hop. Coming out of smalltown Connecticut, he used strippers to attract attention to his set and was eventually discovered at the much loved Churchills Pub near downtown Miami.

5. A Boston pop-punk band active in the late 70's and ealy 80's whose song "I'm Talking to You" appears on Rhino's "DIY" CD series  "The Boston Scene."

6. An indie rock band based out of Barrie, Ontario, they've released two EPs and a single to date <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maps">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.