The music of Mar de Grises invites to a desolate trip through the endless movement of our lives. Bitter feelings and the diverse forms in which the man expresses them are intermingled with the most various musical elements to create an intense sonorous film, where moving emotions emerge from overwhelming atmospheres.

This is somewhat of a surprise, the up-and-coming Finnish doom label Firebox signing a Chilean band with an original take on doom metal. Mar De Grises ("sea of gray") has produced an extraordinary debut album in The Tatterdemalion Express, mixing elements of doomdeath, ambient, funeral doom, and even progressive into a seemless and unique sound. The songs are long (averaging around eight minutes each), sometimes complex but never overly ambitious. This is one of the best doom albums in the last several years." - BNR Metal Archive

"Their music is not powerful only by virtue of its intense melancholy, but its refined beauty. Theres something comforting about this, a poetic spirit that shows us the quintessentially human nature of sorrow. Its sad, yet warm; seductive, but not corrupting. A stunningly beautiful release that needs to be heard by everyone." - Sinister, Australia

"Those who truly explore metal, those who do choose to seek out this recording will find a treasure of immeasurable value in the heart of the Andes." - Digitalmetal.com

"This is a must-have for anyone seriously into modern Doom/Death and for fans of Funeral Doom as well." - Doom-metal.com"

"Dreamy passages of very melodic and progressive doommetal with Death Metal influnces all over it. This is a promising debut CD from the doom metal scene." - Terrorizer Magazine

"...Mar de Grisess debut album is one that any fan of dynamic and atmospheric metal would be proud to own." - DoomAltar.com

"...If youve gotten tired of nearly every doom album being nearly identical to many others, Mar de Grises is for you." - Metalreview.com

Mar de Grises was formed through August 2000 and September 2001 in Santiago, Chile


::: Line Up :::

Sergio Alvarez: guitars
Alejandro Arce: drums
Rodrigo Gálvez: bass
Rodrigo Morris: guitars
Juan Escobar: keys & vox

http://www.mardegrises.net/
http://www.season-of-mist.com/
http://www.avocado-booking.com/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mar+De+Grises">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.