Born and raised in Livorno in 1985, Marco Effe is con­sid­ered to be one of the most promis­ing Ital­ian tal­ents. Within an extremely short time span, Marco is rais­ing up and man­aged to achieve world­wide recog­ni­tion. This has mainly to do with his remark­able pro­duc­tions, which have found their way into the DJ cases of all inter­na­tional global play­ers. It was the year 2007 when Marco began to com­pose his own music and imme­di­ately felt the grow­ing desire to pub­lish his first release. And so he did, “Wet June EP” was released in Novem­ber 2008. His first out­put gave him imme­di­ate recog­ni­tion and was a great success!

From that moment on this thriv­ing new­comer never looked back and Marco used the given oppor­tu­nity to improve his busi­ness rela­tion­ships. The final result, he ended up work­ing together with the estab­lished label Big City Beats (Frank­furt). Marco’s tal­ent is finally revealed and his career really gets started. 2010 he does it again, the “Malaysia/Muar EP” (one of his EP’s numer­ously played by Richie Hawtin in that year) once again made its impact and influ­enced the entire global club scene. This land­mark release found its home on Break New Soil, Gre­gor Tresher’s mar­velous label. This allowed him to get in touch with Tresher´s book­ing agency, enabling him to become a mem­ber of their inter­na­tion­ally star stud­ded fam­ily affairs roster.

In spring 2010 he returns with a new release on the album “Cécille Italy”. His track is called “Janet” and clearly show­cases his unmis­tak­able House/Tech-House style. His ensu­ing “From Kalida To Hyden EP”, pub­lished on Dub­fire’s bril­liant label “Sci+Tec” and is an ele­gant musi­cal jour­ney into sonority.

Marco Effe moved to Berlin in 2011 and a year later he releases “Jel­lied Eels” on Cocoon’s Dots & Pearls 2” It’s easy to hear why this has been sit­ting in the sets of Sven Väth and Luciano for some time. Marco Effe is also part of “Raw Verse” a new alias he uses to pro­duce spe­cial tracks receiv­ing recog­ni­tion world­wide. Marco is by now with­out a doubt a young and extremely ambi­tious artist, who can already put a check mark behind most of the top rank­ing events and clubs in Europe, such as the Water­gate Berlin, Time Warp Italy, Cocoon Club Frank­furt, Stu­dio 80 Ams­ter­dam, Sankeys Man­ches­ter, Harry Klein Munich, and many more. The high-class labels such as Break New Soil, Cécille, Sci+Tec, Tronic, Cocoon Record­ings are appro­pri­ate for all his lat­est releases.

Thanks to his superb tech­ni­cal skills, his truly unique DJ sets, his abil­ity to con­quer every crowd with his amus­ing and delight­ful style, Marco Effe is at the fore­front of today´s elec­tronic music scene! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marco+Effe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.