Marc Rebillet is an American electronic musician and YouTuber from Dallas, Texas, currently based in New York City. He is known for improvising electronic songs that feature comical lyrics. Rebillet primarily distributes his work through YouTube videos and Twitch live streams in which he uses a loop station, keyboard, vocals and percussion instruments to produce his songs in his apartment. He also has released three studio albums (Marc Rebillet, Europe and Loop Daddy III) and two extended play records (Loop Daddy and Loop Daddy II).

Rebillet started playing piano at age four; he studied classical music until age 15 while attending Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts in Dallas. He dropped out of Southern Methodist University after one year of studying acting. Rebillet then worked in other sectors for ten years, including as a server, an executive assistant, and in a corporate call center, while producing music unsuccessfully under the name "Leae". During this time, Rebillet moved to New York City in 2011 and back to Dallas in 2014 to care for his father, who had Alzheimer's disease.

Rebillet's professional music career began in 2016, when he began publishing YouTube videos and live streams of himself improvising songs in his bedroom, apartment, and hotel rooms, often while dancing in his boxer briefs. These videos began to go viral through Reddit and Facebook, generating a fan base, and earning Rebillet tips. Many of Rebillet's songs are inspired by live requests from his fans, who call him on a phone number that he posts on social media, or comment during the live stream. Rebillet's sessions can last from one to five hours. The content of the streams varies widely, from romance and sex to more frivolous topics, such as snacking.

Rebillet's music is defined by his use of a Boss RC-505 loop station, which allows him to layer his voice with keyboards, tambourines, and other hand percussion instruments. Most of his songs are improvised, and include elements of funk, soul, hip hop, and house music, as well as comedy skits. Nick Pagano described Rebillet's music as ranging "from soulful serenading piano ballads to funky bass licks to downright club bangers, and is always accompanied by his unique sense of humor". His lyrics tend to be comical, silly, or vulgar, enough so that he has been referred to as a comedian. Rebillet's "goofy", "nerdy", and "earnest" personality plays a role in his popularity.

Speaking about the lyrical content of Rebillet's songs, WBUR's Tonya Mosley said, "they’re actually really insightful. It’s sort of like social commentary."

Rebillet has mentioned Reggie Watts, Nina Simone, Madlib, and James Blake as sources of inspiration.[9] Speaking about Reggie Watts, Rebillet has said, "I would not be doing this if he didn’t exist."[6] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marc+Rebillet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.