There are several bands named MARCH.

MARCH (Orange County, California, US)

Paul Schulte l Voice
Jay Baran l Guitar
Scott Klatskin l Drums
Paul Wizikowski l Bass

With a need to reinstate soulful, honest rock and roll, this 4-piece has forged ahead making a welcomed dent in the Orange County and Los Angeles music scene. In 2007 the 3rd release titled “EP3” produced by the band and Chris Karns (Rocco Deluca & the Burden, Tyrone Wells, & Deccatree) and mixed by Howie Weinberg (Nirvana, Beastie Boys, Mars Volta, White Stripes) marked a new direction for the outfit. Frontman Paul Schulte’s expansive vocal range combined with the passionate, heavy and dynamic rhythm section prove to be a captivating and powerful mix.

"MARCH is an, Atmospheric & intelligent brand of alternative-rock, that falls somewhere between A Perfect Circle, Stone Temple Pilots, U2, The Police, Smashing Pumpkins and Year of the Rabbit/Failure."

"MARCH is a unique amalgamation of raw early U2."

MARCH has shared the stage with national acts such as 30 Seconds to Mars, Head Automatica, Papa Roach, Augustana, Tantric, Cypress Hill, Onesidezero, Memento and the Revolution Smile, and was awarded a position at the South by Southwest Music Festival in Austin, TX and nominated at the 2008 Orange County Music Awards.

MARCH (Indonesia)
March is a Jakarta-based backbiting band. Kick started their calling with the 2005 demo track; “Rise of The Imperfect”, these metal heads kept making things happen. With their fully abrasive and guitar-driven songs such as the crowd burner piece “Batas Nalar” and “Teori Konspirasi”, March has grown and shared stages with international and local forefront acts.

A gig in mid 2006 has been the best foundation to further bring March into poised path. There, the band played their esteemed songs and made remarks on few notorious names in the scene. “Awesome materials” and “heavy” are the roughly remembered compliments of that one hell of a night.

Within several years of comradeship, March has been through transitions of formation and adversities. Thanks to ones who believe in such music, the ensemble is still striving for their very own actualization of ambition and still featured on cycle of local gigs, festival, and parties.

After the comeback of Ryan; the guitarist, from study in Australia, the hunger of Lale; also guitarist, in playing metal again, the boys are more than alive and ready to march with other members; Erix on drums and Faddy on vocal. The band is now paving the way to reveal their materials; not by a usual release, but a radical one. So far on the process, March has pushed everything to its limit and set to march on!

MARCH (The Netherlands)
MARCH is a Dutch/Belgian heavy rock quartet that draws influences from The Distillers, The Bronx & hard rock bands like Motörhead. 

The band started out as a three piece in 2013. A year later, Dutch indie label White Russian Records released the band's first EP 'In The Air'. Little later, lead guitarist Erik Van Haaren joined Fleur Van Zuilen (vocals and guitar), Bram Bergs (bass) and Thomas Frankhuijzen (drums). In that constellation, MARCH recorded 'Stay Put', again released by White Russian Records in 2016.

Ever since the release of the latter, the band has kept gaining traction in Western Europe: MARCH toured around the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany and the UK, was invited to Popronde 2017 and topped off 2018 with an appearance on national radio 3FM, slots on summer festivals Jera on Air, Brakrock (BE) and Punk Rock Holiday (SLO) and, finally, a support slot for NOFX in a sold out Melkweg Amsterdam.

2019 started off with the quartet (now with Hermance van Dijk on lead guitar and Jeroen Meeus on bass) releasing Fear Of Roses, the first single from their sophomore album. Right after another milestone followed: the band got to support Dutch favourites De Heideroosjes at a sold out AB Brussels.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/March">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.