'Sweet, soulful & sentimental songs - Reeves has a superb vocal quality and the lyrics to match' – Evening Post

'His lyrics, music and voice ooze a rare musical maturity that defies his age' – LeftLion magazine

'Listening to the tracks on the album it is staggering when you realise that the voice behind these lyrics is only just on the cusp of turning twenty years old' – Nottingham LIVE magazine

'(His album) Sounds more than perfectly fine to us' – Notts Unsigned podcast

'Heartfelt experimental acoustic folk' – The Maze

'Marc Reeves has a fantastic voice' – Independent Music News

 20 year old Marc Reeves originally hails from Surrey, UK, but has spent a great deal of his life living in Nottinghamshire. It is here that Marc has become a staple part of the music scene, wearing his heart on his sleeve with his introspective performances in pubs, bars, cafe's and music venues around the Midlands and beyond. In late December 2010 Marc independently released his debut solo album, 'Perfectly Fine', to much critical acclaim, gaining attention from radio stations and journalists nationwide with his unique blend of pop-rock and folk music.

 Having grown up listening to the likes of The Beatles & Elliott Smith, Marc has a gained a great respect and understanding for Pop music, and combines his love for the genre with his passion for Folk music, drawing inspiration from his seniors – Simon & Garfunkel, Fairport Convention – and contemporaries like Iron & Wine, Laura Marling & Johnny Flynn. Marc has also been perfecting his skills on the guitar for over 10 years: he’s worked as a session guitarist and vocalist for many local artists. He sings like the weight of the world is on his shoulders, but his voice soars effortlessly – which his debut recording is a testament to, being a joyous celebration of playful vocal melodies and harmonies.

 Reeves has taken a decidedly intellectual approach to recording: he’s a sound engineer and has just finished his degree in Music Technology at New College Nottingham. He also studied music at Harlow College and earned a BTEC National Diploma in Popular Music from Castle College – with a triple distinction.

 But Reeves’ music comes from the heart. His acoustic pop style has elements of folk music in his debut album, 'Perfectly Fine'. Reeves employs all of his talents to create his art: playing all the instruments, recording, mixing, and mastering the album all on his own.

 Perfectly Fine is available as a digital MP3 album via CD baby, iTunes, Amazon MP3, Napster, 7digital, Myspace Music, Nokia music, Zune, Emusic, Verizon & all other good online digital music retailers. It is also available on physical CD from www.marcreeves.co.uk, Amazon, CD Universe, CD baby & The Music Exchange.

http://www.marcreeves.co.uk
http://www.youtube.com/marcreevesmusic
http://www.facebook.com/marcreevesmusic
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marc+Reeves">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.