Marcel Coenen started playing the guitar at age 11. He learned all facettes of playing the guitar pretty fast and on age 13 he started playing in bands. One of the better known bands in which Marcel started playing when he was only 16 years old was the band Speedica. With this band Marcel did a lot of live gigs and the band released several demos and an album. Later the band changed the name into FORM and released an album called "I Choose My Own", this was in 1994.

Around this year Marcel started the band AURA which later changed their name into Lemur Voice. In 1996 Lemur Voice released their first record called "Insights" through the American Magna Carta record label. Marcel also was invited to play on a tribute to Rush CD, released by the same label. The CD was called "Working Man, A Tribute To Rush" and had appearances of artists like John Petrucci and Mike Portnoy (Dream Theater), Steve Morse, Michael Romeo (Symphony X), Billy Sheehan (Mr Big) and several others. The song Marcel plays on was "Freewill".

In 1998 Marcel joined the Dutch national guitar contests and became best Rock guitar player of the year (4th in all styles). This lead to his endorsement with Ibanez Guitars later that year.

In 1999 Lemur Voice released their second album called "Divided" and a year later Lemur Voice disbanded because of musical differences.

Marcel started the project Sun Caged in 1999, when Lemur Voice broke up Marcel made Sun Caged a full band. Band members were found and some demos were recorded. These caught the attention of Finnish label Lion Music and an album was recorded.

The album, mixed by Arjen Lucassen (Ayreon/Star One) was released in 2003. Also Marcel's solo first solo album, called "Guitartalk" which had recordings from some years before it release, was released in 2003 by Lion Music.

Marcel's second solo album "Colour Journey" has been released in January 2006 and that album is half filled with vocal songs. A Lot of great guest musicians play on this album. The album is getting great reviews everywhere.

Marcel's first live DVD "A Live Time Journey" also has been released, the DVD has a live gig which is filmed during the Colour Journey CD Release Party in Weert in January 2006, plus a lot of extras.

Marcel also now has an instructional DVD available, it features a lot of techniques, melody construction, tablatures for all lessons and licks and one song, 5 complete songs played in front of the camera in clear motion, and 5 backing tracks.

Marcel's influences are very wide ranged. From guitarists like Joe Satriani, Steve Vai, Yngwie Malmsteen and Steve Lukather to guitarists like Mike Oldfield, Steve Morse and Eric Johnson. Marcel also likes a lot of movie music and some heavier metal bands like Meshuggah and Fear Factory. Also a lot of fusion players like Allan Holdsworth and Scott Henderson are amongst Marcel's favorites. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marcel+Coenen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.