Marco Antonio Muñiz (born September 16, 1964), better known by his stage name Marc Anthony.
 A New Yorker born and raised, the product of a music-loving Puerto Rican family, his parents named him Marco Antonio Muñíz in honor of the great Mexican balladeer of the same name. 
Born Marco Antonio Muñiz September 16, 1964 (age 52)
New York City, New York, U.S.
Nationality American Puerto Rican
Occupation Singer songwriter actor record producer television producer
Years active1988–present
Musical career
Genres
Latin, Salsa, Ballads, Freestyle
Labels Blue Dog (1988) Atlantic (1991) RMM (1992–98) Columbia (1999–present) Sony (1999–present)
He began his recording career singing the English-language dance music known as freestyle, but he hit his stride between 1993 and 1997 with his first three salsa albums (Otra Nota, Todo a Su Tiempo, and Contra La Corriente). These productions established him as the top-selling singer in the history of the genre, able to sell out Madison Square Garden and prestigious venues internationally. Marc Anthony is a singer, songwriter, actor, record producer and television producer. Anthony is also the top selling tropical salsa artist of all time. The two-time Grammy Award and five-time Latin Grammy Award winner has sold more than 12 million albums worldwide.[5] He is best known for his Latin salsa numbers and ballads. Anthony has won numerous awards and his achievements have been honored through various recognitions. He was the recipient of the 2009 Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (CHCI) Chair's Award. He also received the "2009 CHCI Chair's Lifetime Achievement Award" on September 16, 2009.[6] He holds the Guinness World Record for best-selling tropical/salsa artist and the most number-one albums on the Billboard Tropical Albums year-end charts

Marco Antonio Muñiz, known professionally by his stage name Marc Anthony, was born in New York City to parents from Yauco, Puerto Rico.[2] His mother Guillermina was a housewife, his father, Felipe Muñiz, a musician and hospital lunchroom worker. Anthony's parents named him after Mexican singer Marco Antonio Muñiz. Anthony grew up in East Harlem, also known as Spanish Harlem and El Barrio, and is the youngest of eight surviving children. He was raised Roman Catholic

In 1991 he released his first album, When the Night is Over. His 1995 collection, "Todo a su tiempo", was nominated for a Grammy with songs like "Te Conozco Bien", "Hasta Ayer", "Nadie Como Ella", "Se Me Sigue Olvidando", "Te Amare", and "Llegaste A Mi".

Anthony was born Marco Antonio Muñiz in New York City, US, to Guillermina, a housewife, and Felipe Muñiz, a musician and hospital lunchroom worker.[3] His parents are Puerto Rican and named him after Mexican singer Marco Antonio Muñiz. He has a sister named Yolanda Muñiz. He also has 4 older brothers and 2 additional older sisters, 4 siblings from his mother's and 2 siblings from his father's prior marriages.

Marc Anthony married pop superstar Jennifer Lopez on June 5, 2004. On February 22, 2007 they welcomed twins Max David and Emme Marbiel Muñiz-Lopez.

Marc Anthony Website --- http://www.marcanthonyonline.com/biography?lang=en <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marc+Anthony">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.