Marconi Union are a British musical duo, (now a trio after founder members, Richard Talbot and Jamie Crossley invited Duncan Meadows to join them in 2010) with strong links to the Manchester based DOTCA arts collective.

They are notable for incorporating elements of electronica, ambient, jazz and dub into their music, and a tendency to make records that are conceptually-based. Frequent comparisons are drawn between Marconi Union and bands such as Talk Talk, Sigur Rós and Boards of Canada.

Their first album, Under Wires and Searchlights, appeared on the small British independent label Ochre Records, drawing attention for its combination of synthesisers, guitars, strings and musical soundscapes. This album was followed with a sustained period of silence only punctuated by a couple of remixes. They eventually resurfaced in 2005 on All Saints Records (a label strongly associated with electronic musician Brian Eno) with a new album, Distance, featuring a darker, more electronic sound and garnering even more publicity.

Marconi Union have always veered towards reclusiveness, rarely granting interviews or playing live. None of their releases give any details about the personnel and little is known of their background. They seem content to operate outside the mainstream, preferring to pursue their own course. Recently their public profile has become higher, playing at the 2006 Big Chill Festival and Eden Sessions along side such mainstream acts as Snow Patrol and Goldfrapp, at Cornwall's Eden Project. They granted their first interview in October 2006 for the widely syndicated American radio show Echoes, and continue to receive radio play particularly in the US, their tracks have also appeared on several compilations albums.

Then once again they returned to the studio to begin what became their most prolific recording period yet. Within a short period of time they had completed a new album A Lost Connection as well as material for two other untitled albums.  Originally it had been planned to release A Lost Connection on All Saints but to both MU and the label's disappointment it became clear that unforeseen complications made this impractical. MU finding themselves without a label, and increasingly disenchanted with the music business decided to take matters into their own hands by making their music available via their own website where much of their back catalogue as well as new and previously unreleased music is exclusively available to download.

Discography: 
Under Wires And Searchlights - Ochre Records, 2003
Distance - All Saints Records, 2005
A Lost Connection - MU-Transmissions, 2008
Tokyo - Bine Music 2009
Glassworks - Bine Music, 2010 (12" vinyl ep)
A Lost Connection - Just Music, 2010 (remastered)
Beautifully Falling Apart (Ambient Transmission Vol1)  - Just Music, 2011
Under Wires And Searchlights - Just Music, 2012 (remastered)
Distance - Just Music, 2012 (remastered)
Different Colours - Just Music, 2012
Weightless (Ambient Transmissions Volume 2) - Self-released limited 2012
Anomic Jah Wobble & Marconi Union -  30 Hertz Records, 2013
Weightless (Ambient Transmissions Volume 2)  - Just Music, 2014
Ghost Stations - Just Music, 2016
Tokyo+  - Just Music, 2017
Dead Air - 2019
Departures - Ambient Zone, 2020
Signals - Just Music, 2021 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marconi+Union">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.