Marc Rizzo (born on August 2, 1977 in Carlstadt, New Jersey, United States) is the lead guitarist of American metal band Soulfly and formerly of Ill Niño. While primarily regarded as a metal guitarist, Rizzo's solo work demonstrates an interest in a wide range of styles, combining elements of hard rock, metal, jazz, classical and flamenco guitar. 2007 saw him headline his first US tour to sold out venues across the country. He has released three solo instrumental albums; Colossal Myopia, The Ultimate Devotion, and Legionnaire.

He has featured on four Soulfly albums to date: Prophecy, Dark Ages, Conquer, and Omen.  Marc is also a member of Cavalera Conspiracy, a side project with the co-founders of Sepultura, Max and Igor Cavalera. The band released their debut album Inflikted in 2008.

As a former standout athlete in his youth, Marc tirelessly trains with weights/shadow boxing/sprints while on tour. He is known to eat a jar of peanut butter coupled with hard boiled eggs for extreme protein.

Marc Rizzo was endorsed by Peavey and Yamaha, and traveled the world undertaking clinics for Peavey when his tour schedule allowed. Rizzo, as of 2009, is endorsed by B.C. Rich. A signature 7 string Stealth model has been built for him.

In 2004 Marc created the indie Phlamencore Records with younger brother Luke. Since has released two sampler CD's (international distro) and 3 full lengths.

Marc is a huge soccer fan and supports AC Milan football club, alongside the Italian national football team.

Rizzo is an amateur boxer whom fought in New Jersey (USA) Golden Gloves.

During live shows, Marc is known for his frequent jump-kicks, and was also known for regularly wearing a backpack while playing live shows, although more recently he has stopped this practice. He is also known for occasionally wearing soccer shirts on stage, such as AC Milan and FC Internazionale. This can be seen at the Download Festival 2004.

Rizzo grew up in Carlstadt, New Jersey, where he attended Henry P. Becton Regional High School. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marc+Rizzo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.