There are, at least, seventeen artists by this name.

1. Maria Hamer-Jensen: A Danish rnb singer.

2. ＭＡＲＩＡ: A Japanese girl band lead by MAIKO (formerly of ZONE).

3. Maria Nalbandian): An Armenian Lebanese singer notorious for her provocative videos. Her hit debut single was "Elaab" or "El'ab".

4. MARIA: A Japanese female hip hop artist. (alternative tag: MARIA from SIMI LAB)

5. An Oxnard, California, USA indie pop band, in signed to Yay! Records.

6. A Japanese psychedelic band, with an album by the same name. 

7. A Bosnian artist, who represented her country in the Eurovision Song Contest 2007. 

8. A Finnish goth rock / post-punk trio. http://mySpace.com/Murhelaulu

9. A California, USA singer &  member of Nuzik Entertainment.

10. A Bulgarian pop-folk singer. Correct tag: Мария

11. A Japanese electronic & laptop artist, a wife of Keiichiro Shibuya, who runs Atak label.

12. A German singer associated with the Neue Deutsche Welle movement. of the late 70s / early 80s

13. Ithaka Maria: Estonian pop singer.

14. Maria Lynn Ehren (Thai: มารีญา ลินน์ เอียเรี่ยน), better known as Maria, a Thai model and singer.

15. Maria Cross: A Japanese visual-kei artist who often gives public concerts on the sidewalk in large Japanese cities. He's most known for his vibrant hair color, eccentric music, and his career in the adult industry. 

16. MARIA was born as Ayaka, she's a japanese pop solo singer. Maria had been active in singing for several years before debuting as a solo artist in 2009. Plays electric guitar and writes her own lyrics.

17. Maria was born as Carmelia Maria Neto Lopez in Lourenço Marques (now Maputo) in Mozambique. Started singing in Johannesburg, South Africa, in 1964. Won a SARIE Award in 1974 for "Artist of the year". Had a total of 4 SA Top 20 hits between 1973 and 1976, including 'I'm On Fire' (1973) and 'Clap Your Hands And Stamp Your Feet' (1973). Died in 1981.

18. MARiA (ﾒｲﾘｱ)  formerly known professionally as Mai Mizuhashi (水橋 舞, Mizuhashi Mai), is a singer-songwriter and utaite known for her strong, mature, and clear yet slightly husky voice. She is also part of the pop rock duo GARNiDELiA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.