There are several artists with this name: 

1) Marina Lambrini Diamandis, known mononymously as MARINA and previously by the stage name Marina and the Diamonds, is a Welsh singer-songwriter.

Marina was born on the 10th October 1985 in Abergavenny, Wales. She began creating and producing her own music in 2005. In 2007, she released her debut EP, Mermaid vs. Sailor. She released her first single (a double A-side, Obsessions/Mowgli's Road) through Neon Gold Records on the 14th February 2009, closely followed by The Crown Jewels EP in June 2009.  Now signed to 679 Recordings, her first single with the label was "Mowgli's Road", released in November 2009. In January 2010 she reached  number two on the BBC Sound of 2010 poll list. This was followed by the release of her debut full-length studio album, The Family Jewels on the 22nd February 2010, and her debut American release, The American Jewels EP on the 25th May 2010. 

Diamandis' musical style ranges from keyboard-based ballads to more up-tempo new wave-style songs with full band backing. She has cited a wide range of influences such as Daniel Johnston, Blondie, Patti Smith,  Nirvana, PJ Harvey, Elliott Smith, Dolly Parton, Britney Spears and Madonna.

Her second studio album was preceded by its lead single "Primadonna" in April 2012; the song is notable for being Diamandis's highest-charting track on the UK Singles Chart, where it reached number 11. The final product Electra Heart is a concept album lyrically united by the ideas of "female identity" and "a recent breakup". Diamandis created the titular character "Electra Heart" as a protagonist for the project; she portrays the personas "Teen Idle", "Primadonna", "Homewrecker", and "Housewife", which represent several female archetypes of stereotypical American culture. The project was released on 27 April 2012, and debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart with first-week sales of 21,358 copies. It became Diamandis's first chart-topping album in the United Kingdom, although at the time it was additionally distinguished as the lowest-selling number-one record of the 21st century in the country.

After spending one month in New York City, Diamandis announced in February 2013 that she had begun writing material for an upcoming third studio album. The single "Froot" was released on 10 October 2014, her 29th birthday, and announced as the title track. Froot is the third studio album by Welsh singer Marina Diamandis and her last under the stage name Marina and the Diamonds.

On February 1, 2019, Marina announced the lead single from her fourth album. Handmade Heaven was released one week later on February 8. In order to promote the release of her new album, Marina released three further singles before the album's release, Superstar, Orange Trees and To Be Human. 
Marina's fourth studio album, "Love + Fear", was released in full on 26th April 2019, and this is her first album under the mononym MARINA. 
Diamandis released an acoustic companion EP,  Love + Fear (Acoustic), on 13 September 2019.[6]

* Official site

2) Marina Lima was known by the name Marina in the start of her career in 1980's. Since 90's she has used her full name, Marina Lima. Lima is a Brazilian rock singer.

Starting her career before Brazilian rock of the '80s was commercially ripe, Marina Lima witnessed its creation from a privileged standpoint and participated in it as a successful pop star since 1984. Her most regular partner has been her brother, philosopher Antônio Cícero. Her biggest hits are "Fullgás" (Marina/Antônio Cícero), "À Francesa" (Marina/Antônio Cícero), "Pra Começar" (Marina/Antônio Cícero), "Nada Por Mim" (Herbert Viana/Paula Toller), "Eu Te Amo Você" (Kiko Zambianchi), "Ainda É Cedo," "Não Sei Dançar," and "Uma Noite e Meia." Her eclectic repertory features rock-tinged pop-dance music, blues, bossa nova, a typical samba-canção melancholy, and a very tiny pinch of jazz.

From five to 12, she lived in the U.S. where her father worked, and was taught to read in English before Portuguese. Attracted to psychoanalysis and music, Marina Lima (just Marina by then; she added her surname to her stage name in the '90s) started to write songs, opting for making a living in this career when Gal Costa recorded her "Meu Doce Amor" in 1977. The next year she formed a band that had a drummer who would be connected with the creation and the development of the Brazilian rock of the '80s, Lobão. Ricardo Barreto (guitar), Guto Barros (guitar), Zé Luís (sax), and Junno Homrich (bass) would also participate in that historic moment (they later became musicians of the seminal Brazilian rock band Blitz) as they were also in her band before the new genre took Brazil. Marina's first solo album, Simples Como Fogo (1979), already brought originals in the pop/rock style that would become mainstream in the next decade. But her first hit came in 1984, with "Fullgás," which had success with the title track "Me Chama" (Lobão) and "Mesmo que Seja Eu" (Roberto Carlos/Erasmo Carlos, here having its meaning altered as a confession of her bisexuality). Three years later, she appeared in the film Rádio Pirata (Lael Rodrigues) singing the main theme, which she also composed. With 15 albums released in Brazil as 2000, others were launched especially for the American market and dominated a period in which anxiety provoked a loss of voice; Marina Lima is one of the biggest divas of Brazilian rock.

3) Marina Luchenko-Szczesna (Polish: Marina Łuczenko-Szczęsna; Ukrainian: Марина Лученко–Ще́нсний; born 3 July 1989), known mononymously as Marina (stylized as MaRina), is a Ukrainian-Polish singer-songwriter and actress. 

4) Marina Vénache, known as Marina on stage, is a French singer born on October 30, 1985. She started her career in the sixth season of the TV show "Star Academy" in 2006. 

5) Marina Marqueza (currently using the name Marqueza) is a non-binary Japanese-Venezuelan artist, singer, and producer based in Salt Lake City, Utah making genre-fluid music from the bottom of their heart. They want to see the Salt Lake City art scene become more radically inclusive of the diversity of talent that already exists, and they put that intentionality behind every event they agree or refuse to be a part of. Marina loves Existimos, Patty and Graciela, and she wants to perform a set that is affirming and healing from their place as a queer person of color. Her debut album, Orbit Pluto, was released on January 1, 2019. 

6) Marina, a Czech metalcore band from Prague.

7) Marina Nakamura(中村 真里奈, Nakamura Marina, born February 7, 1987) is a Japanese singer and songwriter from Miyazaki who is signed to 5pb. Marina debuted in 2010 singing songs for the anime television series Angel Beats! as one of two vocalists for the fictional band Girls Dead Monster. In May 2013, she made her major solo debut with the release of her single "Kimi Tsunagu". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marina">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.