Marc Bell (better known as Marky Ramone, born July 15 1956, in Brooklyn, New York) is an American drummer. He is perhaps best known for being the drummer for the highly influential punk rock group Ramones.

Marc Bell started playing drums when he was 16, with his band Dust. He recorded two albums with the band." From a Dry Camel" one of the songs off their first album. Was listed in the top ten metal songs of all time. In the first edition of the Heavy Metal Almanac.The two albums made the charts in America.

 Before getting into the punk scene in the early 1970s, He played drums with Jayne County's Back Street Boys (Not to be confused with the Backstreet Boys) And Richard Hell and the Voidoids. After two years with the latter, Bell left in pursuit of a new band. About that time, Tommy Ramone decided to quit the Ramones in 1978 to concentrate on producing the band.
After being asked by Johnny Ramone and Dee Dee Ramone to join, he accepted, and Marc Bell became Marky Ramone, being the only living member of the bands longest line up. He's on such classics as, I Wanna Be Sedated, Rock"n"Roll high School, Rock"n"Roll Radio, The Blank Generation, The kkk Took My Baby Away, Pet Cemetary, to name a few.  
            
Marky Ramone, Played approximatley 1700 shows, & recorded 10 studio albums, with the other Ramones.He's also on 3 live albums.

Marky also played drums on the Phil Spector produced," End of the Century "album. Which is the Ramones largest selling album to date, Not including compilations of greatest hits.

Marky also appeared in the rock classic, Rock"n"Roll High School. With, Dee Dee, Joey & Johnny Ramone. He also appeared in the T.V. series the Simpsons.

Marky played drums with the Ramones for 15 years. He left the band in 1983 to get rid of his addiction to alcohol (or "to fight his demons" as he put it in his own words) and was replaced by Richie Ramone. Marky returned clean and sober in 1987 and played with the band up until their retirement in 1996[1].

Since playing with the Ramones Marky has produced two albums as Marky Ramone and the Intruders in the 1990s, both re-issued on the Start Of The Century double CD/LP, released 2006.

In 1996, Marky Ramone & Dee Dee Ramone formed a group called the Ramainz, just to have fun playing the songs they always played. 

In 2000, Marky joined Joey Ramone, lead vocalist of the Ramones, to record Joey's only solo album, entitled Don't Worry About Me. That year he also joined The Misfits, with Jerry Only , the only original member of the Misfits left and Dez Cadena of Black Flag. He toured extensively with the band on its 25th anniversary tour, and recorded and produced one album with them, Project 1950, released 2003. He left the band in 2005.

 Marky also received the lifetime achievement award from M.T.V IN 2001.


On Monday, March 2002, Marky was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, at New York's Waldorf Astoria as a member of the Ramones.

He recorded some albums with his solo band Marky Ramone & the Speedkings, as well as many 7" releases. Marky Ramone & the Speedkings toured the world from 2002 to 2003.

In September 2004, Marky who was executive producer, released a Ramones DVD entitled Ramones: Raw, which featured footage of the band while they went on tour all over the world. It is the only gold D.V.D, the Ramones have .The footage is courtesy of Marky Ramone and his video library. The DVD was finished just in time to include commentary from Johnny Ramone, who died from prostate cancer on September 15, 2004. The commentary also includes Marky Ramone. 

Marky toured around the world for a 'spoken word' tour, where he would speak about his time with the Ramones, along with photos. With no signs of slowing down, Marky continues to tour the world with his band, Marky Ramone’s Blitzkrieg, which includes friend Michale Graves (ex-Misfits) on vocals. In early 2010, they released their first single “When We Were Angles” with former member of Sheer Terror, Mark Neuman, playing bass and guitar.. He also hosts the Marky Ramone Punk Rock Blitzkrieg radio show on Sirius XM Satellite Radio.Faction 28

Marky, along with Dee Dee, Joey, Johnny, and Tommy Ramone received a lifetime achievement award from the Grammy's for 2011. 

Marky also has his own Pasta Sauce line. Called Marky Ramone's Brooklyn's Own. He just recently issued his own drum instructional video called, Punk Rock Drumming "His Way"
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marky+Ramone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.