Marks of Sin (M.O.S.) was formed in the August/September of 2006 from Dayton, Ohio as a five piece band founded by guitarists Randall Davis and Stefan Rotunno and the line up was completed with bassist Jordan Foust, drummer Dustin Carmichael, and vocalist Derek Brunsveld. The band started writing songs immediately and was playing shows by late October of the same year, but things didn't last too long with the line up and by April of 2007, the band had parted ways with Stefan Rotunno. M.O.S. continued to play after deciding to continue on as a four piece band and played shows throughout that summer, but by fall of '07 vocalist Derek Brunsveld decided to leave to pursue his musical projects. The band, very quickly, recruited new vocalist Derek George from Lima,Ohio and the band started playing shows harder than ever before and shortly released their debut album "Under the Influence" in '07 which had spawned the single and video for "Whiskey and Pills" and played with a couple of big acts Jungle Rot and Misfits. Marks of Sin played relentlessly for the next year and a half, then came the release of their second full length album entitled "Homegrown Hatred" released on Dissected Angel Records in 2009, which had great songs such as "Run", "Selfish Whore", "Its My Day", and "Bullet Beaten Kid" which gained a little more more attention than what was expected and included the bands first review with Metal Hammer Magazine. The band went on their first mini-tour down to the Florida/Louisiana states and by the time tour was over, bassist Jordan Foust left the band due to personal reasons and M.O.S. quickly reunited with Stefan Rotunno to take over on bass duties. As of now, the band is in the process of writing new material for the upcoming new album and they are still playing shows rediculously. Keep on the look out for this band, their New Orleans sludge, blues, punk, and metal influences are not something to miss....THIS BAND IS A MUST LISTEN AND A MUST SEE!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marks+of+Sin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.