Markize was formed in 2003, in Paris, France as a joint project of its two co-founders  –  Alina Dunaevskaya and David Verbecq. The purpose of this collaboration was not only to live a common passion but also, for Alina, to heal from a troubled past. They sought to make music not only for rock and metal music lovers but for everyone. Thus, great significance is attached to the lyrics, which are written in English, French and Russian.

Emilien Vincent (guitarist) joined the band shortly after and completed the original lineup; they recorded the demo disc Poussières de Vie in August 2004. It was well received by musical critics and public, so the band set off on a concert tour during 2004 and 2005.  After a period of collaboration, Emilien Vincent left the group to focus on his personal projects. Alina and David continued together to write compositions for their future album and to look for musicians who would be better suited to their musical project.

Several changes of line-up delayed the album release far more time than expected. Nevertheless, the lineup was completed in July 2005 with the addition of Franck Chentrier and Nicolas Thomas (guitars), and a little later Gautier Blondeel (bass guitar).

Finally, it was with this stable line-up that Markize recorded their first album Transparence.  The band gave several concerts in Paris (with Penumbra at Salle Curial, with Cult of Luna at La Locomotive...) and also in different regions of France.  Notable is their contribution to the world of french metal with the track Paperdoll.

The album Transparence has been on sale since the 10th of March 2007 with Acropole Records and has received critical acclaim.  Markize toured in Paris and Provence in May, June and July of 2007 in support of the album.

In August 2007, Gautier Blondeel left the band to dedicate himself to his family life. After several auditions, Pierre Vo was chosen to be the new Markize bassist for his personal and musical qualities.

The concerts began again in September 2007, and in October Markize took part in the MFVF Warm-up show in Belgium and was selected to play in the famous Metal Female Voices Fest 6 in October 2008, an annual event to celebrate famous metal bands with female singers.

www.markize.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Markize">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.