Mark Fell (born Sheffield, UK, 1966) is a multi-disciplinary artist living and working in Sheffield. He works with new technologies, sound, image and interaction, bringing together interests in experimental electronic musics, contemporary art, philosophy and computer science.

Mark has performed and exhibited extensively at many major international festivals and institutions. These include: Sonar (Barcelona), Mutek (Montreal), Siggraph (Los Angeles), Powerhouse (Sydney), ACMI (Melbourne), ISEA (Paris), Hong Kong National Film Archive, The Barbican (London), The Corcoran (DC), Schirn Kunsthalle (Frankfurt), Volksbuhne (Berlin), Liquid Room (Tokyo) and many others. His published sound works quickly placed him at the forefront of new digital musics with critically acclaimed releases on Mille Plateaux (Frankfurt), Or (London), Line/12k (New York), raster-noton (Berlin) and others.

Over the past ten years Mark has worked as curator of digital music for several international festivals including lovebytes and Sightsonic in the UK, and guest curated "The Year of Living Digitally" in Singapore as well as the Algorithm Stage at the Glade Festival (UK). He has been responsible for the UK premiers of many emerging and established sound artists working with digital technologies, forming a major contribution to the development of this genre within Europe.

In addition to his professional activities Mark has been employed by the Creativity and Cognition Research Studios (UK) where his research focussed on emergent technologies in contemporary art practices, specifically theories of interactive art and creative process. He has authored and published several papers on this subject. Mark is also a founding member of The School of Interactive and Algorithmic Art which is a regionally based initiative delivering training to professional artists and designers working with digital technologies. As consultant and systems developer he has designed and built interactive and generative art systems for a variety of clients. These include prototyping for a piece shown at the Natural History Museum, a multi-channel sound playback system in the wintergardens Sheffield, and installation of an interactive tank at Hong Kong Heritage Museaum, and others.

As a practicing artist he has attended several international residency programmes including Hong Kong national film archive. His awards and nominations include Ars Electronica, Quartz award for research in music, and Euro Asia foundation. With colleague Mat Steel, Mark is currently co-director of a Sheffield based studio working in research, development and production of digital arts and music, serving as a platform for his own work, his many collaborative projects, technical consultancy and curatorial practice. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mark+Fell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.