There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Martyr is a Dutch Heavy Metal and Thrash Metal band. 
During the first  five years that Dutch Steel Legends Martyr was active (1982-1987), the band released two albums that are considered cult in the Metal scene today. ‘For The Universe’ (1985) and ‘Darkness At Time’s Edge’ (1986) are classic Metal, a delight for those who love strong melodies, speedy riffs and a high level of technicality. 
In those years, Martyr appeared on compilation albums from Roadrunner and Metal Blade, was voted Holland’s best new Metal band in Aardschok magazine, has toured with several international acts and appeared on Sky Channel’s Monsters Of Rock. 
Martyr disbanded in 1987, but reunited in 2001 to play the Heavy Metal Maniacs festival. Four years later, the band revived almost the complete 1982 line up to play the Headbangers Open Air and Keep It True festivals. The flame has been burning again and the band continued to play live ever since. December 2008 MARTYR supported US Shock Rockers Lizzy Borden on their European tour. Summer 2009 MARTYR hit the European stages supporting Flotsam & Jetsam and in Fall they did the same with Vicious Rumors.

In 2009 the first new Martyr record in almost 25 years was released . That’s when the new EP ‘Fear’ will be coupled with a re-release of the classic ‘For The Universe’ album as a double digipack entitled ‘Fear The Universe’ on Rusty Cage Records (RCR0017). 

2022 New album - Planet Metalhead

2)  A Canadian technical death metal band. Martyr's intricate and aggressive Technical Metal style is built on complex structures which allies a multitude of emotions from many different musical approaches. The music is not limited to the conventions of traditional metal music, the band striving to push those limits to create a more open-minded concept. 
Martyr is based in Quebec, Canada. Their music is often seen as technical progressive death metal.
Martyr's concept was officially created in 1994 by François and Daniel Mongrain.
Themes like affliction, oppression, and agony had to be conveyed by a single word. With this concept in mind, the name "Martyr" was decided upon. Martyr’s music is reflected through lyrics which express emotions such as anguish, outrage, revolt and indignation towards humanity, and the need to improve oneself within this harsh environment. But all in all, the best way to understand this is to listen to the music... and let it drown into your soul.

3) Martyr  was  a Dutch  black metal band who made a couple of albums and disbanded starting over as 2 other bands. Haat - Vocals, Guitar (Onheil, Shrine (Hol))
I.N. Enthroned - Drums
Nomiis - Bass (Shrine (Hol), Onheil)
Amok - Guitars, formerly Bass (Onheil, Shrine (Hol)) (2000-2002, 2004-)

4) Martyr was a Czech death metal group which consisted of Petr "Christopher" Kryštof, Paul Speckmann and Libor "Skull" Lebánek. All of them are known for their engagement in Krabathor and Master.
The band formed in 1999 and a year later released one and only album "Murder X: The End Of The Game" before finally splitting up.

5) A Christian metal band from the late 1980s. Later went on to be Betrayal.

6) American hardstyle producer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Martyr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.