Legacy

Marthyrium began to walk this tortuous path in the fall of 2006, over the ashes of lost and forgotten
projects of Tharngrist and Cannibal, the unique foundators that still be a part of the trinity of the beast.
A path that is still being traveled nowadays without signs of ending.
The first revelation came forth under the title of "Rites of Vengeance & Darkness" in the middle of 2007,
released in tape format by the band themselves and limited to 250 handnumbered copies. Then,
Antichristian Front Recs released a CD version with an extra track, a different artwork and limited to 100
handnumbered copies. Both releases are totally sold out.
In the fall of 2016, as a tribute to a decade of blasphemy and darkness, ChristFuckingChrist Recs rereleased
"Rites of Vengeance & Darkness" in tape format, limited to 66 handnumbered copies, with a
complete new artwork begotten by César Valladares and inspired in the old one layout.
The second revelation came forth under the title of "Morbid Omen of Devastation" in the middle of
2009, released in 7" EP vinyl by Antichristian Front Recs and limited to 500 handnumbered copies.
Marthyrium's lineup change several times after the release of "Morbid Omen of Devastation". In 2011,
Balc (Balmog, Banished from Inferno) becomes the 4 Sepulchral String rapist, closing the circle and the
trinity of the beast was complete again. After this impasse, the band continued traveling the path of
darkness.
The third revelation came forth under the title of "Psalms of Plagues & Cult of Death" as 7" Gatefold
Split in conspiracy with ERED and released by Negra Nit Distro in the middle of 2014, limited to 500
copies.
“Beyond the Thresholds” is the fourth revelation, que first complete album after X years of devotion.
The abomination has been summoned, the beast has been unchained…
The revelation has been unveiled by the trinity of the cult of darkness:
Tharngrist: 6-Strings Desecrator & psalms.
Balc: 4 Sepulchral Strings & litanies.
Cannibal: Abyssal Drums.
Thus, we enshrine our flesh as the temple of thy perpetual fire.

Propaganda

“Rites of Vengeance & Darkness” Demo Tape (2007 self released).
“Rites of Vengeance & Darkness” Demo CD (2007 Antichristian Front Recs.).
“Morbid Omen of Devastation” 7” EP (2009 Antichristian Front Recs.).
"Psalms of Plagues & Cult of Death" 7” Gatefold Split in conspiracy with ERED (2014 Negra Nit Distro).
“Rites of Vengeance & Darkness” Demo Tape (2016 ChristFuckingChrist Recs.).
“Beyond the Thresholds” CD/LP Full-Length (2017 BlackSeed Prods.).

Live
Marthyrium has share the stage with bands like: Dead Congregation , Grave Desecrator, Kill, Baphomet’s
Blood, Interment, Ketzer, Balmog, Graveyard, Ered, Korgull The Exterminator, Demonomancy,
Necromutilator… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Marthyrium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.