When Martin Eyerer tells a story, everybody listens. Martin reports of his journeys throughout the continents, telling stories of wild escapades in a taxi across the Brazilian jungle through to the impressions of Earth's capitals and the colourful array of citizens that inhabit them, and obviously of his many Gigs in these foreign lands. Those foreign places quickly become familiar territory when he sets up his digital DJ-system and starts to play that thumping first track because what he plays is groovy Electro-Tech House and the sound is a world language of its own that is euphorically absorbed through sweaty pores and pumping glands.

His passion is eminently clear when he starts to talk about his experiences and such is his passion and enthusiasm for the music that one could easily think it was all totally new to him. But it isn't. Martin Eyerer has been a DJ for 20 years - and just as many years a producer, label owner, radio show producer. Throw in his two young children and it seems that the energy never leaves his side.

Martin Eyerer is not a laptop artist, but a true musician. His high-end studio meets the highest requirements and has become an interdisciplinary interface for mastering (whether it is Hip Hop, Pop or Electronic) and he is also co-producing several mainstream acts (Eyerer e.g. became a gold record in UK). On top of all this, the Tech-House Posse around him like Gui Boratto, Oliver Koletzki, Toni Rios, Stephan Hinz, Namito, Chopstick, Oliver Klein or Florian Meindl come to 'his house' to jam. It is a small circle of friends who share the same musical interest and who put 200% in to every release they do.

Whether collaborations, solo Works, Remixes or Compilations, all his works appear almost monthly on dance-floor dominating labels, like Kling KLong,MBF (My Best Friend), Trapez, Great Stuff, Kickboxer and Criminal and on English big names like Renaissance. The most unbelievable aspect of this is the variety of styles Martin stands for. There is no segment from Deep house to Electro that Eyerer is not in control of, always keeping his focus on the dance-floor. This consistently high-quality of output results in rocking world-wide floor-fillers, spun by the most well-known DJs. Beyond that, hits like Make My Day (Haunting) by Eyerer and Chopstick feat. Zdar/Cassius made their way into the A-rotation of English music television.

As an important platform for his music Martin Eyerer has founded his own label - Kling Klong. Due to the conscientious release policy (releasing artists like Koletzki, Namito, Andrea Doria, Mijk van Dijk, Diringer, Mini Br Arnaud Robotini of Black strobe and Eyerer) the Label boss of Kling Klong was able to establish an independent sound between electro, minimal and tech-house. DJ-colleagues define the records as 'absolute peak time material'.

Peak time is the best time in a DJ-set, but in Martin Eyerers opinion, you have to work for it as a DJ - there is no way to force it. With that philosophy he builds up his sets, using the newest material and unfolds an oppressive, sizable Groove. Martin Eyerer does not try to get through the night with the current hits. Instead, he travels the whole sound-spectrum in one intuitively construed DJ-set. These legendary sets make their way around the globe resulting in Martin playing regularly in England, France, Georgia, Israel, Spain, Italy, Greece, Brazil, India and Australia.

But Martin wants to reach more people than only those who frequent nightclubs. That's why he regularly works on mix compilations, e.g. the double CD Movement (MBF, together with Oliver Klein). He has also set up Session De Luxe - a national weekly radio-show that goes out live every Sunday evening on Sunshine live - Germany's biggest station for dance music, and it's on this platform that Eyerer presents all the latest releases for his hungry following to devour as they polish of their weekend's activities on sofas, in bedrooms or in the car on their way home after visiting their parents for Sunday lunch in the country. By himself or with guests like e.g. Bodzin, Anthony Rother, Chardronnet, Huntemann, Gregor Tresher, Abe Duque, Thomas Schumacher, John Selway or Shlomi Aber, Session de Luxe never disappoints. But not only are the monologues important - Martin also involves the listeners, giving everyone the chance to ask questions about anything concerning dance music.

Autumn 2007: Martin Eyerer works on his Debut album, which is scheduled to be released January 2008. Some tracks are already finished, others are in progress. Martin's first Longplayer will be a pure Club album, serving the expectations of the DJs and dancers who have developed a love of Martin's music over recent years. No excursions into avant-garde sounds, no 10 minimal loops - just outstanding tracks throughout and each worthy of becoming the a-side of a 12" single in their own right. As everyone can imagine, the variety is not going to be a problem with Martin Eyerer bobbing at the knobs...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Martin+Eyerer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.