Maryla Rodowicz (born 8 December 1945 in Zielona Góra) is a popular Polish singer. She studied at Liceum Ziemi Kujawskiej (The Kujawy region high school) in Włocławek and graduated from the Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego (The Academy of Physical Education) in Warsaw. In her youth she participated in athletics among other things at Kujawiak Wloclawek.

She became famous in 1973 with the song "Małgośka" with lyrics by Agnieszka Osiecka. A year later, during the World Cup Opening Ceremony in Munich, she performed a song "Futbol" (Football).

The singer's body of work comprises over 600 recorded songs, with over 20 polish albums as well as albums in English, Czech, German and Russian. Apart from "Małgośka" the artist's most famous songs are "Niech żyje bal" (Long Live the Ball*), "To już było" (This has already been), "Wielka Woda" (The great water), "Rozmowa przez ocean" (A talk over the ocean), "Bossanova do poduszki" (A bedside bossanova), "Łatwopalni" (flammables) and her latest album's hits such as "Wszyscy chcą kochać" (Everybody wants to love) and "Będzie co ma być" (What ought to be, will be). In 2005 she recorded an album "Kochać" (to love) with lyrics by Katarzyna Nosowska. On the occasion of World Cup 2006, she recorded a song "Za Janasa" (For Janas) with the same songwriter's lyrics.

Maryla Rodowicz had performed in concert worldwide: in Europe, America, Australia, and Asia. She has won many awards for her singing. She has also articipated in various festivals including outside the borders of Poland, for example in Oklahoma City, Los Angeles, and Tulsa, as well as in Poland including "Festiwal Piosenki i Piosenkarzy Studenckich" (The Student Songs and Singers' Festival) in Krakow and at "Krajowy Festiwal Piosenki Polskiej" (The National Polish Song Festival) in Opole.

Rodowicz is also an actor who has performed in several movies and musical entertainment. She regularly performs in a Polsat TV channel series "Rodzina zastępcza" (A Foster Family).

In 1992 she released her autobiography under the title of "Niech żyje bal" (Long Live the Ball*).

*Ball, as in party, not the spherical object.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maryla+Rodowicz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.