Mass Burial was established in 2008 by vocalist/bassist Goran M, the ideologist and main song writer, and lead guitarist Alen A, who gave the band's sound its typical sophisticated finish. The current line up is completed with Ron M on drums. The blackened death metal band from Sydney Australia musically combines elements of merciless vehemence with atmospheric mysticism; amalgamating a unique blend of death and black metal.

Influenced by the greats of extreme metal, including Morbid Angel, Behemoth and Emperor, Mass Burial received acclaim from worldwide audiences and underground metal media for their self released demo "In The Realm Of Death". The formula of necromantic, martial lyrics poured into compositions of hard hitting yet tasteful riffs, mesmerising guitar solos and neck breaking drum patterns, immediately resonates with metal fans who long for music that is artistically rich in dark spirituality.

Following a series of successful concerts in Australia during 2009, Mass Burial engaged Lachlan Mitchell; known for his engineering work on the albums of Australian metal exports, The Amenta and Nazxul, to record and mix the band's debut full length studio album.

'Eternal War' captures some of the darkest apocalyptic visions and unleashes them upon the world in the form of nine perfectly aggressive tracks. Finalised in July 2010, the album was mastered by Alan Douches, credited for his mastering services for some of the world's most famous extreme metal bands including Nile, Mastodon and Sepultura.

With shows booked around Australia to support the release of 'Eternal War' these kings of brutality are ready to unleash apocalypse!

MASS BURIAL Album "ETERNAL WAR" - OUT ON 10/10/10!

Pre-order at:

sales@massburial.net

For all enquiries contact:

management@massburial.net

www.massburial.net

www.myspace.com/massburiatheband

www.reverbnation.com/massburialtheband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mass+Burial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.