A name synonymous with Jersey Thrash/Speed Metal.

The band got it's start in the later part of the 1970's by three high school buddies,
Lou & Nick Frascella, & Don (Digg) Rouze

Digg was originally on the Guitar, Lou on Bass & Nick on the Drums.
After a couple of jam sessions they found out that Lou was the better Guitarist and Digg was the better Bass player and could also sing.

"We found it allowed me to free up not only the playing end of it, but that it made it easier for me to sing as well"

In 1981 Digg left to join the military and get his personal life in order.

During the next five years the band went through several changes including the actual name coming into play, with the following filling in different slots over the years.

Robert Ireland: Vocals
Chuck Bird III: Vocals 
Brian Fraipont: Drums 
Joesph Scott: Bass 
Bruce Myers: Vocals
All of whom were part of the M/F machine and contributed to the forward movement of the music.

During those years M/F did mostly cover songs playing shows around the local scene and making a name for them selves.

In late 1986 Digg returned to the states and the following spring of 1987 re-joined his old band now known as Master Fury.

From that point on the band went all original with the music and hit the scene with a blitzkrieg pace that quickly established them as a serious force.

The trio entered the studio in 1988 to record: Hell Party
It was their 1st full length and received rave revues as well as local air play

In 1989 they recorded and released: Circles of Hate
This album received massive acclaim and local air play as well.

It also defined who the band was
in regards to the sound and style they were looking for.

The album is now a much sought after collectors item on the underground scene.

Unfortunately while they were working on their 3rd full length:
Dreams of War
the line up of Nick, Digg & Lou
decided to go their separate ways.

Nick: still lives in Jersey and is keeping the faith alive.

Lou: moved to the south west and is currently semi re-tired from the music business after having switched over to playing Blue Grass for a number of years.

Digg: currently resides in Wisconsin where he runs a sound and light company & is now fully involved with Master Fury again.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Master+Fury">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.