The Master Musicians of Bukkake are a loose-knit posse of Seattle, United States-based musicians performing collective ceremonial music, far removed from category and pushing well beyond the "outsider" fashions of those willing to settle for less.

Master Musicians of Bukkake began in the fertile music scene of the Pacific Northwest in2003. Originally founded as a collective of musicians from the overflowing community in Seattle featuring members of Earth, Burning Witch, Grails, The Accüsed, Asva. In 2005 they released Visible Sign of the Invisible Order a recording of improvised ritualistic musical gatherings by the collective. Recorded mostly outside deep in the Cascade Mountains and in large ensemble sessions at Aleph Studios. The record was released on the Sun City Girls Abduction record label and featured honored guest appearances by Alan Bishop and Charlie Gocher of the Sun City Girls. Totem One (Conspiracy Records, 2009), Master Musicians of Bukkake's first record as part of a Northwest trilogy, Marks an evolution from their first record Visible Sign of the Invisible Order (Abduction Records, 2005). Master Musicians of Bukkake has now solidified into a seven-piece cosmic psyche force.

Like a reverse dark side of the New Age sound, on the Totem series Master Musicians of Bukkake perform ritualistic electric excursions into the outer and inner reaches. Relying more on the electric power of psyched guitars, analog synth chants, and exotic heavy percussion. Totem one echos with the delusions of a West Coast Death cult. Outer spaced Gamelan, dusty fuzz rock from celestial deserts, meditations of a deranged Krishna gathering, and the Blurry acoustic guitar majesty of The Cascade mountains all reveal themselves here in epic form On Totem One. Every sound and note played put to tape by a group with a singular purging purpose.

http://www.suncitygirls.com/abduction/mmob.php <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Master+Musicians+of+Bukkake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.