Matan Zohar (a.k.a Mat Zo, Unripelemon, Reif, MRSA) was born in April of 1990 into a musical family. Throughout his childhood, music was a huge part of his daily life. He was pressured by his parents at an early age to take up an instrument, and when he picked up his first guitar in 1998, he quickly showed a talent for it. During this time he developed a love for Daft Punk. In 2001 he moved in with his dad in London. There he got his first computer and was able to kindle his interest for electronic music. Through the internet Matan discovered the vast world of music production. He then got hold of some production software and started developing his own flavour. Matan explored the styles of trance, drum and bass, house, currently going with a more progressive sound. After 3 years, his productions are played by high profile DJs such as DJ Tarkan, Perry O'neil, and Swedish Egil. 

By 2006, when he was only 16 years old, Matan had his first signing of a track, but it was after he won the Baroque Remix Competition with Lustral's "In My Life" that many world-class DJs and producers began to notice this young producer's great talents.

By mid-2007, Mat Zo had remixed the likes of Andy Moor and Markus Schulz. He became a DJ household name after Tiesto hired him to remix "Driving To Heaven", and the remix appeared on Tiësto's internationally recognized "In Search Of Sunrise 7" CD compilation.

Mat Zo quickly worked up the ranks to become one of the most sought after progressive dance music producers in history. He has played in countries like Holland, Germany, Ukraine, Ibiza, India, and various cities in England. Mat Zo's global reach multiplied when his Zoned monthly radio program was picked up by Afterhours.fm the summer of 2008.

Mat Zo has gained tremendous support by the world's top DJs, including Armin van Buuren, Tiesto, Above & Beyond, Markus Schulz, Ferry Corsten, Andy Moor, and Airwave. He has numerous releases out on such labels as Intuition Recordings, Armada Music, and Anjunabeats. He continues to produce varied electronic music, ranging from drum and bass, to trance and progressive house. His 'Zoned' radio program can be heard monthly on afterhours fm (ah.fm), and his guest mixes can be heard on numerous highly rated radio stations. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mat+Zo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.