MATER TENEBRA was born at the end of 1994 by Horkam, AionVII and IborVII, line-up that stays unchanged in years, keeping up a music coherence that warrants to them a firmness dedicated to the reaching of an unique purpose: brutal, fast, aggressive to the limit music. Horkam and IborVII played together since 1990 in a group named “Deathless”, that would pay homage to the historic Death SS. In 1994, with the addition of AionVII was created MATER TENEBRA. Following first the 80’s European Black-Thrash Metal, Sodom, Destruction and Celtic Frost above all, still to the Nordic scene of early 90’s, and adding a brutal tendency, MATER TENEBRA reached a very personal style made of a dissonant riffing with inserts of old metal, added to a very fast and concise drumming. Regarding the texts, they are considered an important part of the song, but thet don’t influence the composition of the piece. The writing of texts is entrusted to IborVII, and they are considerations, thoughts, stories; it does not exist the idea of a concept album for the moment, because every song is a part from each other, and it is the result of a mention, of a thought or a reading. MATER TENEBRA recorded in 1997 the demotape “Gairethinx” at the studio of OPERAIX, that ever offer to MATER a true help and a indispensable support. In the August 1998 M.T. recorded the full-lenght “Necrocturna Demoniaca” for Northern Darkness Rec. But this album, cause of a lot of difficulties came to light only a year later. Now MATER TENEBRA are going to record the second full-lenght that, of course, will be a concentrated of violence and brutality. This album will be recorded for PulsarLight Rec., and we would thank Michele Saggin for the encouragement and willingness, and because he trusted in us. MATER TENEBRA would also thank great friends that supported us and that are example for us: OPERAIX and MORTUARY DRAPE; without them Italian Metal would be different, and surely more wretched.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mater+Tenebra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.