MATER MACHINA was born in the beginning of 2002  in the  North-West of Italy, with the intent to realize a sort of metalcore apart from old cliches, looking towards to other styles but maintaining a  powerful impact.
The choice of the monicker lets perceive the undertaken direction: a style which reminds the listener of the repetitive, obsessive and perfect power of machines, that could improve metalcore concept leaving behind the old metal and classic hardcore habits.
Former line up was made up of 5 elements coming from different musical experiences: Valynor (vocals), at first into black metal; Anti (rhythm guitar) and Lace (bass) interested in nu metal and brutal death; Simone (lead guitar) and Erik (drums) who have been sharing for many years the same passion for techno-thrash/death playing together in various bands.
At the beginning of 2003, MATER MACHINA made its debut on the scene with the minicd "... Into Serenity" which collected great reviews soon becoming a new sensation in the Italian underground scene, but obviously, with a not completely defined musical style. The band had to clean up his style from some influences and tried to find and focus the real core of its music.
This release caught the attention of HARDEBARAN promotion & management that permitted "... Into Serenity" to be aired on main European and American radios, carrying the band to be known and appreciated outside Italy.
2004, year of inner schism and band improvement. MATER MACHINA records a full lenght album at ONE VOICE STUDIO with Danny Giordana (already behind the console with Hatebreed, Madball, Agnostic Front, Biohazard and many more). The recording session still involved original bass player Lace and Danny Giordana took his part as a Co-producer with the rest of band. The band lost founding member Anti (rhythm guitar) and replaced bassist Lace with Lorenzo, who showed a great familiarity with complicated rhythm patterns and was ready to perform on stage after only two months of practice with his new band.
The nucleus of MATER MACHINA mantains unchanged force and solidity in spite of the difficulties met, obtaining unequivocal confirmations of its quality, and trying to make a further step with a licence and distribution contract for the new master, in Italy and abroad.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mater+machina">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.