Atmospheric black metal band MATER MONSTIFERA rose in the end of the summer 2000. The original line-up was : Yvor - guitar, backing vocals & programming, Destructor - vocals and Jitka - keyboards. Not long afterward,  Astral Vampire joined the band on lead guitar. At the end of the year, MATER MONSTIFERA recorded and released their first demo named "Svice Zivota". After the release the band focused on supporting the material by a range of shows and the style of the band took more concrete shape - atmospheric black metal with substantial support of keyboards. In the spring 2001, Abogarth became a member of the band as a bass player.

 A year after, the band recorded its new stuff in ´Prodigy´ studio. It was released as MCD by I.F.A.records in the summer 2002. In the autumn of the year, Astral Vampire left the band because of family reasons. Since that time he´s co-operated with the band as a studio guitarist. His position in the band was appointed by Archangel.

 During the next two years (2003-2004) the band pursued huge number of live performances. In second half of the year 2004, preparations for recording a debut album started. It was recorded within April and May 2005 and was eventually released by I.F.A.records in June 2005. Astral Vampire (Lead gutar) and Grief (ex-Immortal Tears singer) occure as special guests.

 In the spring 2006 the former bass player Abogarth is replaced by Deemon.The band pay attention to performing a number of concerts while working on the second album. As a teaser, the single Beletseri is recorded, with a vocal support by Dying Passsion´s singer Zuzana Jelínkova, and freed to public. The band is satisfied with positive responses from both fans and critics.

 At the end of the year 2010, however, the singer Destructor leaves the band due to bussiness reasons and the position of a keyboard player is also abandoned after the leaving of Jitka. Nevertheless, replacement emerges almost immediately. Stephanos becomes the new frontman and Denisa takes charge of keyboards.

 In the spring 2011, MATER MONSTIFERA leaves for the tried-and-tested Prodigy Studio and finishes the second long-playing record, ´Na Zrcadlech Lží´, under the charge of Jiří Drdák, which is released on 20th June as a supplement of Pařát magazine. In following month, the band focuses on supporting the CD with live performances.

In May 2012, the band is reinforced by a drummer, Ondre, and starts up working on new stuff. In the autumn of the year, the band once again visits the Prodigy Studio and records the current 3-tracks singl ´In the Ruin if Your World´. On 30th of March 2013, it is released on flashdisc, under official distribution of Metalgate records.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mater+Monstifera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.