Mathias Kaden is for 11 years and counting a first-rate ‘turn-tablist’ in the recordrotation disciplines. For both training- and competitive exercises he utilizes the basics: 2 turntables, a mixer and painstakingly selected vinyl. With such equipment he nightly compels both listeners and casual spectators alike into a sportive revelry on the dance floor. The device is thus: along the ranks of abandoned spaces on the periphery... patrons shift to the crux where the sounds radiate from Kadens chamber, compelled to engage in physically strenuous activity. Therein the master of ceremonies’ form is altered to that of an engaging style behind the masses. Out of the boxes a resounding conglomerate of House & Techno pours forth, without the ‘pop’ imitation and duplication, but instead reflecting the movements that challenged mankind. Whether he’s the opening act, headliner or shutting the place down, a flair for the crowd and thorough grasp of the scene is always there.

With fresh sources and influences minus the uniformity, he exhibits the following range of elements and sound-structures: minimal, funky, freaky, dashing, fiddly, marching, hopping, slamming, dub, straight-forward and around the corner...Along with his prince-o-pal Marek Hemmann under the mark Trainerduo Hemmann & Kaden, a lot of 12" releases in total are in the offing. The latest, as with the other 2 releases, will be thrown to the dance-happy multitudes. Occupying the ‘next’ spot on the Muna/Bad Klosterlausnitz bench is his own event-promotion outfit Freshblood, predominately from the above-named locale alive with vibrant talent. Additionally he is one of the many responsible for the technical direction for Kassablanca Jena, where he also performs as a DJ and organizer. Alas listeners and dancers, allow me to take leave and let the sound of this young man splash onto your eardrums. Take it from the German proverb: ‘To write about music is to dance about architecture!’. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mathias+Kaden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.