Matias Aguayo lives between Buenos Aires and Paris, DJing, making music, performing concerts alone and together with Marcus Rossknecht with their project "BROKE!".

Born in '73 in Santiago de Chile he musically grew up in Cologne, Germany, where he spent the 90s living and contributing to the scene of this city which would have such a deep influence on dance music. He was there, as club kid and DJ (e.g. of the legendary Liquid Sky Club) experiencing the creation of new musical styles and contributing by organizing parties and being involved in musical productions such as the project Zimt (w/ Michael Mayer, 1997). Soon he would come up with a new project: Closer Musik (w/ Dirk Leyers). Touring from disco to disco and around the world, performing live sets which also took him to Buenos Aires, Argentina - where he stayed for some time and never really left, organizing temporary free club spaces like the "juventud clandestina" (clandestine youth) and the "hoy" club - a period reflected in Matias' Album Are You Really Lost (Kompakt, 2005).

His main activity nowadays consists in making free parties on the streets together with his friends Ladybumbox, Gary and Pablo, the legendary "bumbumbox" parties in capitals and big cities of South America (Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Asuncion, Paraguay, Sao Paulo, Medellin, Colombia, Santiago de Chile, etc...)

In his DJ sets (which are partly live sets, considering the integration of singing and a couple of instruments), Matias celebrates his vision of dance music, with intensity and sensuality, nights where people dance to dark disco gems, futuristic visions of underground house, nocturnal and groove-driven techno, and obviously lots of unreleased tracks, dancing and singing on top included.

Matias Aguayo latest album Ay Ay Ay was released on October 27, 2009 on Kompakt. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matias+Aguayo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.