Matrix (Metro Recordings)

Matrix a/k/a Jamie Quinn forged an early path into the drum and bass scene through seminal releases on DJ SS's New Identity Recordings before launching his own Metro imprint in 1997. His seminal long player, 'Sleepwalk' on Virus showed that there was more to this producer than simply the 12" format and his remixes of tracks like 'Medicine' (Ed Rush & Optical), 'Phone Call' (Klute) and Kirsty Hawkshaw's 'Leafy Lane' have become timeless classics. In recent years he's also climbed to the top of the pop charts as part of the Goldtrix production team with 'Trippin (It's Love)'.

Matrix's latest studio offering, 'Strength 2 Strength' is a collaborative effort with Futurebound. The result is a sublime combination of straight up dance floor devastation and soulful futurism demonstrating perfectly why Matrix has found himself firmly at the forefront of the Drum and Bass scene.

Futurebound (Viper Recordings)
From the very outset of dance culture, and right up to the present day, Brendan Collins, AKA DJ / Producer Futurebound, has steadily developed an almost unsurpassed reputation for tearing up dance floors on a worldwide scale. 

Whether hes destroying venues such as Fabric (London), Womb (Tokyo), or in the studio, you know what youre getting with the sounds of Futurebound.

Born and bred in Liverpool, the cultural and musical epicenter of the North of England, Futurebounds route to the top of his profession reads like a concise history of dance music. After the first illegal raves he attended in 1989, Futurebound went onto pursue his passion for dance music, with DJs such as Fabio, Grooverider, Mickey Finn & Top Buzz serving as early influences.

From this, Futurebound secured a home town residency in 1991, warming up for the likes of Carl Cox, Grooverider and Sasha, his first real break into DJing. Steadily the emerging influence of breakbeats grew on Futurebound, leading him to book names such as LTJ Bukem, Goldie, Ray Keith and 4 Hero for his own parties in the early nineties, and later lead him to start the notorious X events in 1999, some of which still rank as some of most important parties in Liverpools clubbing history.

His skills didn't just stop with DJing and promotion either. Since 1993 Futurebound has been stamping his distinctive, rolling, peak time sounds on vinyl, initially with local producers. Inevitably however, more high - profile production and remix collaborations followed with the likes of J Majik. Matrix, Digital & Adam-f. With his productions being released on imprints such as Infrared, Timeless, Moving Shadow, Metro and Frequency, and receiving heavy support over the years from the scenes hierarchy, the time seemed right for Futurebound to expand his repertoire once again, by infusing his reputation on an entire imprint.

Enter VIPER RECORDINGS.
2003 saw the birth of Viper, started by Futurebound himself. The label has so far spawned eight releases of the highest quality, with the first, Blind Cobblers Thumb by Futurebound & Jaquan, achieving instant anthem status, and was more than ably backed by the monstrous Pied Piper .

7 further releases have followed, spanning a plethora of D&B styles, and have featured the likes of J-Majik & Wickamans Fleshwound, Barons slamming remix of Blind Cobblers thumb, Matrix & Futurebounds funk fuelled monster Strength 2 Strength, as well as the mighty Circuit Breakers project which saw Futurebound pull in top draw tracks from State of Mind, Moving fusion, Entity, Probe & Sylo, Jaquan & Futurebound himself

Released in November is an Excellent 12 from D&Bs new golden boys The Brookes Brothers. And following that in early 2007 sees viper release its first album, as Futurebound & Matrix release their hugely anticipated album Universal truth. 


UNIVERSAL TRUTH (2007), the album

1. Universal Truth
2. Knite Riderz (feat. MC Spyda)
3. Skyscraper
4. All Born Angels (feat. Mister Who)
5. Rat Trap
6. Sand Storm
7. Strength 2 Strength
8. American Beauty VIP
9. Family (feat. Robert Owens)
10. The Edge
11. Coast To Coast

The result was a sublime combination of straight up dance floor devastation and soulful futurism demonstrating perfectly why Matrix & Futurebound found themselves firmly at the forefront of the drum and bass scene. Both have kept their fingers on the pulse with various other projects since the release of 'Universal Truth'. Matrix, in collaboration with Shimon, released 'Slipstream' / 'Dirty 5th' on Shimon's newly formed AudioPorn Records. In the meantime, Futurebound teamed up with the Brookes Brothers to create the soulful anthem 'Dawn Treader', released on Adam F & Fresh's Breakbeat Kaos label. Futurebound's label Viper Recordings has also been quickly climbing the ladder as one of the top drum & bass labels in the scene with releases from new signings Shock One, Metrik, Brookes Brothers, and DC Breaks, just to name a few.

Matrix & Futurebound teamed up again in 2007 to release their remix of Nu:tone's 'System'. The tune became an instant classic. Dropped by top DJs such as Andy C, Danny Bryd and Friction, 'System' has become a permanent fixture in DJ bags all over the world ever since. They then went on to remix Justin Timberlake's 'Love Stoned' for the remix single release. Matrix & Futurebound then released their first follow up single to 'Universal Truth', with 2008's 'Womb' / 'Family' (Nu:tone & Logistics RMX).

2009 is shaping up to be Matrix & Futurebound's biggest year yet with the forthcoming dancefloor smasher 'Shanghai Surprise', backed with the uplifting vibes of 'Reflection'. They're also set to release tracks, both together and solo, on the upcoming Viper Recordings Artist album "Acts Of Madmen", due out in late spring. They have also begun work on their second studio album, scheduled for the back end of 2009.

For all booking enquiries please contact: info@urbantakeover.co.uk Or jonurbanagency
Press: Contact Electric P.R +44(0)2074240405 
Taken from the official Myspage page at http://www.myspace.com/matrixandfuturebound <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matrix+&+Futurebound">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.