There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Black Metal from Canada
http://matron-psychedelicblackmetal.bandcamp.com/album/macrocosm

2) Formed in January 2006 by Sam Brandon (Bass), Marcus Matusiak (Vocals,Guitar) and Tim 'Mallets' Desmond (Drums)in London,they quickly recorded a 2 track demo and did a number of small gig’s.At this time Matron trod traditional Death Metal grounds with a small degree of success.In May the trio were joined by Dave Keys on keyboards,Enthused by the results they entered the recording studios to record the Demonic Metal demo.Marcus remained on Vocal and guitar duties,Sam engineered the session and also played guitar,the duo also both played bass.
A few gigs were played with the addition of Mr.Bones on bass.The afore-mentioned gentleman was a skeleton.

In October there was a line up change,Adam Betts a versatile drummer who’s long list of credits include Heritage Orchestra,Herbaliser and the James Taylor Quartet,James Griffiths on vocals and James McIlroy on guitar.James had previously been in 2 bands in Belgium (Asmolean and Aggressive Culture between 1996 and 1998) and here in the UK with ‘Relentless’ from 2002 until enjoying some success as guitarist with Cradle of Filth from April 2004 to September 2005 and can be found on the Nymphetamine album,Live At The Forum dvd and Mannequin EP.When he left he formed ‘Prey’ with Cradle member Martin Powell and ex Himsa guitarist Matt Wicklund.

Marcus then returned to keyboards,and James Cater joined to play bass.
Matron played their first gig at the Dome in Tufnell Park on 22nd April.

Then Cater left with a gig in Holloway just around the corner in support of ‘Carnivale’(A band that Marcus sometimes plays keyboards for).
In July they returned to the same venue with ‘Carnivale’ bassist Luke Potter.
In December they played with Akercocke at the Underworld in camden and won an unsigned competition with Terrorizer magazine.

3) Matron is a progressive rock band based out of New Orleans, LA.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.