Three artists share this name:

1.) The wilds of Colorado brought forth the three men of Matterhorn. Daniel Harvey, Jeremy Grobsmith and Aaron Retka have played together for a decade, first in the tech-violence quartet the Great Redneck Hope, whose two full-lengths remain required listening for the genre. Now, as Matterhorn, they've condensed into a thundering instrumental three-piece, relying on low-grade musical telepathy and a collective half-century of experience.

2.) San Francisco’s Matterhorn formed in January of 1999, and began knifing a direct path through the heart of the hardcore influenced modern American underground. “Set to Rise” is a culmination of that unrelenting sonic path, and it showcases the power and dynamic range of this hungry quartet. Working with a rhythmic template similar to, say, Scratch Acid or Rye Coalition and the overloaded guitar work of Karp or Dead and Gone, Matterhorn finds home in slashing high-end guitar, and impassioned vocals. But dynamics and orchestration are the key to “Set to Rise”, and these nine tracks shift radically from charging, trebled romps to unexpected drops into eerie atmospherics. “Set to Rise” is as tight as anything ever recorded by Helmet, and as and painful and gut-wrenching as a high-speed car crash after getting fired from work. Vocalist Scott Carter served time with both Glazeride and the acclaimed St. James Infirmary, and his passion and commitment to the dark side of human emotion and thought is abundantly clear on this release. His vocal style is like a gun that shoots bullets, whispered threats, and riddles. Bass player Matt Zwicker formerly played with La Pistola, while Rob Kimball and Eddy Dishart played guitar and drums respectively in Hetch Hetchy, a San Francisco monster rock band. Matterhorn are Set to Rise: as powerful, moving, and sturdy as the Alpine mountain itself.

3) An Extreme Metal trio from Zurich, Switzerland. The band was founded in 2012 by members Morbid, Nekroking and Tim Tot. Their first LP "Crass Cleansing" has been released in 2018.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matterhorn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.