Matthew James Morrison (born October 30, 1978) is an American musical theater, film and television actor, singer, songwriter, and dancer.

Matthew was born in Fort Ord, California, U.S. He was educated at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts and the Orange County High School of the Arts. He made his musical theater debut on Broadway in the musical version of Footloose, followed by a revival of the Rocky Horror Show in 1999.

His big break came when he landed the role of Link Larkin in the Broadway production of John Waters' Hairspray. After performing in the role for some time, he started working in television, guest starring on shows such as "Hack" and "Sex and the City". He also had small roles in films such as Marci X, Encino Man, Primary Colors, and Simply Funk. He followed up by performing the role of Sir Harry in the ABC-TV production of Once Upon a Mattress, starring Tracey Ullman and Carol Burnett.

Morrison recently changed gears, playing the role of Fabrizio Nacarelli in Adam Guettel's The Light in the Piazza. He was nominated for a Tony Award for his performance. He left the show September 1, 2005.

Morrison joined the cast of the CBS soap opera As the World Turns as Adam Munson on October 24, 2006, but left abruptly soon after due to a "scheduling conflict," last airing on the soap on November 27.
Morrison appeared in a benefit performance celebrating Andrew Lippa, and the 25th Anniversary of the performing troupe 'The Kids Next Door' at the Orange County Performing Arts Center in Costa Mesa in December 2006. The performance benefited The California Conservatory of the Arts, a non-profit arts education organization focusing on pre-professional training for young students, grades six through twelve, in Orange County.

He earned a Drama Desk Nomination for his role in the Off Broadway show 10 Million Miles which ran at the Atlantic Theater Company in 2007. That same year he appeared in two films: Dan in Real Life and Music and Lyrics.

He recently finished starring in the Lincoln Center production of South Pacific as Lt. Cable. After leaving "South Pacific," Morrison was cast as  "Will Schuester" in the FOX television series Glee, which debuted on May 19, 2009. His role is that of a high school Spanish teacher who takes on the role of restoring the school's glee club to its former glory. The show has been a commercial and critical success, garnering good ratings as well as a Golden Globe nomination for Morrison (Best Performance by an Actor In A Television Series - Musical Or Comedy). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matthew+Morrison">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.