Matthew John "Matt" Corby (born 7 November 1990, Australia) is an Australian singer songwriter.

Matt Corby has certainly carved a unique path for someone that started his career aged 16 on a reality TV talent show in 2007. In 2009, he independently released his debut EP 'Song For...' before relocating to London and signing with renowned UK indie label Communion after capturing the attention of the label's owner; Ben Lovett of Mumford and Sons fame.

Matt Corby’s songs and vocals elicit a sensation that is nothing short of captivating. Having previously been compared to legendary artists such as Nick Drake and Jeff Buckley, Matt’s songs continue to deliver a uniqueness and maturity well beyond his years while his live performances have become renowned for bringing large audiences to a complete stand still.

After recording with Ian Grimble (The Libertines, Seasick Steve) and releasing his hauntingly beautiful EP 'Transition To Colour' in late 2010, Matt has been busy engaging audiences with his live shows. Matt spent the earlier part of 2011 playing sold out shows in London and showcasing at SXSW in Austin, Texas in February before coming back to Australia to play a string of intimate “Secret Garden” shows in fans’ backyards. He soon after joined UK band Elbow as the main support on their national tour of sold out Splendour sideshows in July.

On 1 October 2015, Matt released his first song in two years, 'Monday' from his debut album, 'Telluric'. The song was described as containing "lush, transcendent harmonies, wailing falsetto, folky boom-claps and heartbreaking lyrics", and later voted 53 in the Triple J Hottest 100 of 2015. 'Telluric' was eventually released on 11 March 2016.

On 7 September 2018, Matt announced his 2nd studio album 'Rainbow Valley', released 2 November 2018.

Personally, Matt enjoys surfing and reading, and became a father with his first child in early 2018.

External Links
http://www.mattcorby.com.au
http://www.myspace.com/mattcorbyau
http://www.facebook.com/mattcorby
http://twitter.com/mattcorby <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matt+Corby">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.