5 atists: Matter (Slovenia), Matter (Italy), Matter (UK), Matter (Spain) and Matter (USA)


1. Matter  (Slovenia) Trap

Electronic trap "boy band" from Kamnik, Slovenia. Dacho, Tunja & Levanael began recording music in 2014 in their hometown studio. They released their debut album Amphibios in 2016, followed by Mrk (2017), Troglav (2018), and Haos (2022), all released by the Slovenian label rx:tx . They additionally formed Better with singer/producer Tsujigiri. Their content is characterized by ironic local gangsta sentiments, self-mythologizing, and dark, bass-driven production.


2. Matter  (Italy) Experimental / Techno / Ambient / Noise

Matter is Fabrizio Matrone aka Heidseck. In the nineties, he played guitar in several bands and after the stealing of his instruments, taking place in a rehearsal garage, he started his first testing sounds independently, using the little means remained. In the meantime he started to visit his friends Retina.it at their studio, a paradise of synthesizers, multi-effects and DIY instruments. At the end of the nineties the first recordings took place. It was about instrumental improvisations composed of long drones, guitar and bass feedback recorded on a 4 tracks borrowed from a friend of his. At this time, recordings were characterized by fusion of field recording and isolationist ambient style. At the end of '90 a lot of productions came out. "Alphaville" produced by self-managed label Nectanebo as a Jean Luc Godard's film tribute. "Last land Sonology" with FKdrone and Fmchloroform's moniker produced by net label Sinewaves. "Decrease of contamination" was the first issue for moniker Matter. Its atmospheres didn't stray from isolationist ambient style. "Sunset ep" was produced by net label Modr. Its sound was close to idm. These productions didn't go unnoticed. Marcel Nickels aka "100Blumen", who is label manager for "Le Petit Machiniste", appreciated a Matter's musical choices, so "Technology and Planetary Power" came out, produced by “Le Petit Machiniste”. "Land of Discordia" produced by SMK and after “Scanning Memory” by Le Petit Machiniste. And "Solid State" the Matter's brand new album came out on Ukrainian label Kvitnu.


3. Matter (UK) Grindcore

Matter was a grindcore band formed in the town of Lewes north of Brighton. The band (excluding vocalist Dom Lawson) had been playing as a group for a couple of years and had been searching for a singer. Until a mutual friend had recommended Dom Lawson to James Burt who went to see him play bass/vocals in his band No Legs. He liked what he heard and gave Dom a demo tape of some of their instrumental tracks and invited him for a tryout for the band. Jim himself joined the other two members in 1998 whilst Dom was the final member of the band to join in January 1999.


4. Matter (Spain) Ambient / Electroacoustic / Noise

Matter is the personal project of Guillermo Gutiérrez Hernández (GUIGHER). A project in which his musical knowledge is widely developed. The essence of Matter is experimental and electroacoustic music build up from synths and classic instruments. 

Members:

Guigher: all music
se'cha: visuals

Guillermo was born in Madrid in 1977. Composer, Musicologist and Sound Engineer, music is part of his life since a very early age, when he began his guitar lessons as well as music theory. He studied violoncello, composition and choir direction with Steubing Negenborn. Albeit his classical training, his eagerness for music led him towards many different styles and musical techniques, contributing with his creativity to the work of diverse authors and bands.

He studied Sound Engineering and Musicology at the U.A.M., where he received training from Alfredo Aracil, Ana Vega Toscano, Jean-Claude Risset, Begoña Lolo, Peter Bosch, Joaquina Labajo, Pedro Gonzalez Casado, Carlos Martínez Gil, Manuel Gama, among others.

At JIEM 2007, one of his works, Insomnio/Regresion, was premiered, being very successful with the audience. It is then, when Guillermo decides to set up his personal project, Matter, motivated by an offer from Medusa Music to edit his debut album. At the end of summer 2007, Guillermo gets enough material to consolidate the basis of what would be his first album. Thus, [vacuum] is developed; the name of the album reflects the project concept and the idea Guillermo wants to express with his music. Produced with the analogical treatment of synthesis and samples, and in collaboration with Juanjo Alba, Kaiser and HARARCA, the final result is a complete audiovisual work.

[Vacuum] is the result of the union of several concepts in which Matter has unified the word and the sound inspired by I circulate del everything and the nothing. Krautrock and the experimental scene in 70's, Conrad Schnitzler, Klaus Schulze... among others would be the clear references of this project in where music experiences highly tactile a creative process.

DISCOGRAPHY:

- Insomnio/Regresion (2005)
© Guillermo Gutiérrez Hernández

Tsunami Music / Medusa Music 
- [vacuum] (2008) TSUCD020 
© Guillermo Gutiérrez Hernández

Tsunami Music / Medusa Music 
- [walk on air] (2009) TSUCD026
© Guillermo Gutiérrez Hernández

5. Matter (Santa Clarita, CA, USA) Post Hardcore / Post Rock
Formed in June 2011
To exist and and to be significant, these are the two very distinct yet inseparable definitions of one powerful word: Matter. From our very first jam in the summer of 2011, we as a band have always desired to live up to this simple term that has become our musical identity. We do not want to simply exist, but we are constantly striving to do things that make a real difference. Whether it is found in our rigorous work ethic to make quality music and lyrical story pieces, or our personal devotion to using a portion of the money we make to help support international efforts of love and justice, we are driven by our passion to be significant.

Matter creates all of our own music and lyrics, as well as all of our own album and merchandise artwork. Matter’s music is produced and recorded by the band, and the members of the band alone hold the rights to this music and its distribution. Matter’s music is also mixed and mastered by band members, namely, Daniel Griffin. And furthermore, Matter, as a band, functions as its own business enterprise under the sole-proprietorship of Elijah Kellogg, dba MATTER RECORDS, registered 2012. So what does that all mean for our supporters? By being an entirely self-contained, musical business we are 100% in control of our income, making it that much easier to write the music we want to write and use our money efficiently, making our promised donations with the greatest effect possible.

Members:
Daniel Griffin - Guitar, Backing Vocals
Elijah Kellogg - Lead Vocals, Guitar
Daniel King - Guitar, Backing Vocals
Josh Marmol - Bass, Backing Vocals
Matt Perry - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.