There are two artists known as Matty: 

1) Solo project from Matt Taveres, keyboardist from jazz band Badbadnotgood. 

2) Rapper from Salem. Raised in Salem -Keizer Or, Matty was introduced to hip hop in middle school listening to everything from 2Pac to Nelly, from Biggie to Mos Def, Matty was hooked. It wasn’t until high school that he started writing lines, which eventually turned into songs. 
He released his first ep album entitled "Blowin Up" in 2006 but was very low quality and a limited quanity was released. "The music wasn’t the best, but you could absolutely see his potential" – Jason Cox (Keizertimes Publication)
He kept writing and learning the business despite all the people who said he couldn’t do it.

In 2007 he followed up his first ep with a full length lp entitled "Where I’m from". Recorded enitrely in a professional studio, (Unlike his first album, which was recorded in his Garage). It had features from local artists The Kid Espi and Amber Rushton. This album was very well received by fans and friends and ended up selling a very nice amount, along with single’s selling on itunes. 
In 2009 he released his 3rd album "The Good Years, spending the time in between projects learning, imporving and making terrific contacts throughout the NW. This album was different though. The quality, content, features and even packaging were on par with any other hip-hop album you would see released. Collaborating with 2-Time world Rap Champion Illmaculate, along with Portland Rapper Mac Smiff and locals The Kid Espi and JG, this album was finally something to be proud of. It is still doing very well on cdbaby where it was featured as an editors pick the week it released and is still doing great on itunes.

Since then, Matty has released 4 smaller projects including 3 mixtapes titled, "The NW Standup Mixtape", "The Healthy Release Mixtape", "The Trending Topics Mixtape" and a small ep with fellow local artist Payne. In addition to that, he has done 50+ feature verses for artist albums and has done over 150 shows from Eugene to Seattle. He launched ThisisMatty.com in January 2010, which he updates daily with a blog, videos and up to date pictures and show flyers.
He has gained respect from fellow NW artists and is constantly building a strong network within them. "I surround myself with terrific, motivated people who are all about progressing forward and working together to make this scene thrive" – Matty.

In addition to participating in various music festvals and countless charity events around the NW, Matty has shared the stage with some of the best in the game. Including Twista, Braille, Cool Nutz, illmaculate, Grynch, Alphabet Stew, Spaceman, 
DJ Fatboy, DJ Flip Flop, Luck One, T&E, Deizel P, Living Proof, The Kid Espi and more.

Staying in tune with what he knows, fans and peers are calling Matty a refreshing vital part of the NW hip-hop scene. It’s only a matter of time before Matty makes his presense known outside of his normal demographics. 
He is Doing shows all over the Northwest and is Currently Booking More Shows...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Matty">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.