Mattafix were a UK R&B/hip hop group made up of two members, Marlon Roudette and Preetesh Hirji. Their sound is a mix of hip hop, soul, reggae and dancehall.

Mattafix released their first single "11.30 (Dirtiest Trick In Town)" as a limited edition single on Buddhist Punk Records on 31st January 2005. Their first full single, "Big City Life", released by EMI on 8th August 2005 was a considerable hit, managing a #15 peak on the official UK chart, a big feat for a UK R&B/hip-hop group, and topped the charts in Germany, Czech, Austria and other European countries. Their third single, "Passer By" was released on 24th October 2005, unfortunately missing the UK top 75. The single preceded their debut album "Signs Of A Struggle", which was released a week later on 31st October 2005.

The group have toured with the likes of Jamiroquai and Joss Stone on their UK tours. The fourth single from their debut album, "Signs Of A Struggle" was "To & Fro", which features backing vocals from former Sugababe Siobhan Donaghy. The single was released as a download only single on 13th March 2006.

Big City Life debuted at #19 on the Australian Music Charts and reached #1 on the New Zealand Singles Chart.

Signs Of A Struggle was a Triple J feature album in April 2006.

In April 2010, Marlon Roudette made a video appearance where he spoke about recording and making the record in his home-based studio. However, via Facebook, it was announced that Roudette and Hirji had gone separate ways, due to their different new ideas for future projects, which has brought abundant attention to fans. He is yet to come up with his new artist name; whether to stay with the name Mattafix, or choose a new stage name; perhaps his own. "Mattafix presents...Marlon..." was a quote from a late 2010 YouTube video, as an updated possibility for his album title and/or stage name. Marlon Roudette has confirmed that the new album is "not a radical shift but definitely different. More instrumentation and more in depth musical compositions." Marlon Roudette has stated that the album is pretty much completed, but the album is still being "fine tuned". His first solo album Matter Fixed was released on 2 September 2011. His sophomore effort Electric Soul on 8 August 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mattafix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.