There are multiple artists with this name:

1. Mausoleum is a Death Metal band formed in United States of America  (Johnstown, Pennsylvania) in 2001.

MAUSOLEUM
THE HORROR OF MAUSOLEUM HAS RISEN FROM THE TOMB ONCE AGAIN !
BORN OUT OF THE WORSHIP OF THE PRIMORDIAL GODS OF DEATH METAL...
Those savage and stripped-down death cults like DEATH, NECROPHAGIA, ENTOMBED, OBITUARY, and, of corpse, AUTOPSY, and raised upon a steady, and steadily unwholesome, diet of Horror in any and all of its appalling incarnations, from novels and comics to films, in particular, gut-munching zombie chunkblowers, MAUSOLEUM exists simply to vomit forth hideous death-reeking sickness into the very face of the stale and sterile “technical death metal” drivel of today. The macabre death-rattling morbidity that is scraped off their mortician’s slab, with its loathsome gore-shrieking vocals, its doomful cacophony of down-tuned guitars, and its barbarous drum bludgeoning, is a disdainful anachronism: a throwback to those fiendish days of yore when death metal was new and noisome and nasty

“Nyctophilia,” their unholy offering unto the twelve split inches of savage low-end cacophony with those morbid death-mongers from Japan, ANATOMIA. For it, the Pennsylvania doom-horde has conjured four hymns of its infamous “Zombiecult Death Metal”: “Voices from Beyond” (based on the 1991 film from that Italian Godfather of Gore, Lucio Fulci), “Shadows on the Grave,” “Shrieks of Fright,” and “The Dark Abysmal.” And now joining those undead iron tyrants from Johnstown, Pennsylvania – vocalist and guitarist Craig Stiles, guitarist Adam Kegg, and bassist Rob Yench – is underground veteran Chris “Warhead” Demydenko from the nuclear wasteland of New Jersey, whose infernal cruel hammering for the ancient black metal cult of ABAZAGORATH is notorious. And so with this new covenant thus founded, the hideous death squad of MAUSOLEUM has returned from the grave to spread its accursed down-tuned plague across this unsuspecting world once more. Adorned with macabre artwork from Mosaeye Art & Design, “Nyctophilia” is the first new loathsomeness from the zombie overlords in five years and serves as a grotesque stomach-churning appetizer for their third full-length atrocity, both to be unleashed through Behind the Mountain Records of Poland. And so abandon all hope … Worship before the altar of Zombiecult Death Metal!

2. Mausoleum  is a Russian hardcore\punk band from Moscow. The band was formed in 1994, they've played underground punk rock in Moscow rock clubs.. Russian Mausoleum released 2 LPs: "War" in 2000 & "Выживай (Vijivai)" in 2004. First album has more punk sounding, the second one is more hardcore! In Russia they also known as Мавзолей (russian translation of Mausoleum).

3. Mausoleum  is a  Funeral doom metal band from the United Arab Emirates

4. Mausoleum is a  Brazilian black/doom metal band.

5. Mausoleum is a Finnish avantgarde band.

6. Mausoleum is a New Wave band from Toronto. http://www.myspace.com/torontomausoleum <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mausoleum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.