Bristol, England's Maximum Joy was formed in 1979 by Janine Rainforth and Tony Wrafter founder members and joined by John Waddington, Charlie Llewellin and Dan Catsis. Blending punk, funk,soul, reggae and jazz they melded their own unique post-punk sound. Maximum Joy signed to the Rough Trade distributed Y Records and their first single, 'Stretch'  (with b'side "Silent Street") came out in 1981. In the U.S. the record was distributed by the legendary 99 Records and became and underground NYC club classic. They released a further 2 singles in quick succession - In the Air & White and Green Place. Their LP, 'Station MXJY' was released in 1982 and was produced in part by Adrian Sherwood. Maximum Joy’s last single was a haunting version of "Why Can’t We Live Together",  & "Man of Tribes' b-side - it was produced by (and featured backing vocals of) Dennis Bovell, it is a song as relevant today as it was when it was first recorded by Timmy Thomas on 1972. The band split up in 1983.

However the interest in their music and the band's back catalogue has not waned - there have been many reissues & they have always been a DJ's favourite - at their inception John Peel was a big fan.

And in 2015 Simple Things approached Janine, the lead singer and an original founder of the band to ask them to play - the time was right - she reformed the band along with 2 other founder members - Charlie Llewewllin and Tony Wrafter - and recruited 2 new players also to finalise the line up. Since then Rainforth along with Llewellin and the new players have been making new music - they are performing as a new updated outfit - MXMJoY later in 2018.

Dan Catstis performs with the newly reformed The Pop Group and the newly reformed Glaxo Babies

Tony Wrafter performs his saxophone and flute across the world with numerous outfits, and is part of the newly reformed Glaxo Babies

The other previous band members are keeping on keeping on in their own ways.

‘Maximum Joy is pivotal to the history of post-punk… ‘I Can’t Stand It Here on Quiet Nights’ combines the three EPs Maximum Joy recorded for Y Records in 1981 and 1982, acknowledging the group’s rightful place in the post-punk canon as pioneers of the Bristol Sound.’ Andy Thomas - Bandcamp

‘Like many of their early ’80s UK peers, Maximum Joy mixed punk, funk, disco, and reggae. This new set captures a band carving its own place with two of music’s most powerful tools: muscle and joy…At the nexus of a bunch of different styles, in the shadow of their peers, they struck a spark that still glows.’ Phillip Sherburne, Best Reissue - Pitchfork

‘The emotional range of Maximum Joy was surely one of their greatest strengths, and this collection gives you every shade of their impeccable repertoire.’
Crack Magazine Review – 9/10

"Digging a pivotal point in Bristol’s dub-informed lineage, it reveals the sound of Bristol parties and after-hours blues in the early ‘80s, which would also find success among the punk-funk crowds and hip hop stations of NYC. Fans of Vazz, The Slits, Glaxo Babies, The Pop Group need to check this one!’ - Boomkat

‘Here's an extraordinary collection from pre Massive Attack era Bristol where the sounds of post-punk, dub, jazz and soul collided in a magnificent splash of colour for Maximum Joy. The songs here are vibrant and upbeat and remarkably experimental. It often sounds like you are standing in the middle of the street whilst two soundsystems play simultaneously. 'Silent Street' builds up from tight knit dub sounds as if the Raincoats had collaborated with King Tubby… as essential to the development of post punk/funk as Liquid Liquid or A Certain Ratio.’ Norman Records

Recent releases and reissues include: - 

"I Can't Stand It Here On Quiet Nights" - a compilation of Maximum Joy's early singles - Silent Street Records 

"Let It Take You There"  - Sherwood At The Controls vol. 1 1979-​1984 

Crippled Dick Hot Wax released a compilation of Maximum Joy's 12" singles and assorted tracks in October 2005 - 'Maximum Joy Unlimited 1979-1983' (cdhw101).
 
'Station MXJY'  plus bonus tracks (including previously unreleased last single cover of Timmy Thomas classic 'Why Can't We Live Together featuring vocals by Janine Rainforth and Nellee Hooper) released by Beatink in Japan May 2007 BRC-193.
 
Bugz in the Attic's re-mix of 'Stretch' on the 'Back to Mine' on DMC

 'Silent Street' on K7! compilation 'Disco not Disco'

'Let it Take You There' re-mixed by Andrew Weatherall, Watch the Ride on Harmless

'Silent Street' re-mixed by DJ Maar on Collection Vol.1 Bijou R.I Sounds on Avex.
 
Maximum Joy's  line up was always quite a fluid arrangement - the band was formed by Rainforth and Wrafter and core players at start were:

Janine Rainforth (singer /violin/clarinet)
Tony Wrafter (saxophonist/trumpeter, previously with Glaxo Babies)
Charlie Llewellin (drums, previously of Glaxo Babies)
John Waddington (guitar, previously of Pop Group)
Dan Catsis (bass, previously of Pop Group and Glaxo Babies)

and later:
Kev (Ebo) Evan (Bass)
Nellee Hooper (b-vocals and percussion/Sin Drum)
Jeremy Hirsch (keyboard/Trumpet)
Peta (vocals) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maximum+Joy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.