Born in 1985, Maxime Dangles discovered the night world at a young age. He found himself enjoying electronic music at 15 years old. He got hooked; the music became his passion. 
Born in the information generation, he understood the preponderant place that a PC can have in complementing DJing. In search of his sound, he produced many remixes for discotheques in his region. 
In 2004, aged 19 years old, he maintained his first residency, at Valentinoise. 
He caught a glimpse of the relationship that could exist  between the public and himself; the musical gap in graduating accentuation. 
 
As of 2005, he prefers to focus on his residency, due to its interactivity, as opposed to producing a product solely for the money. The music is his passion - the lucrative aspect isn't his priority [apparently]- although he enjoys the production as well. His first titles were banged out in the summer of 2006 by some of his DJ friends.
 
After receiving a good reaction on the dance floors, he decided to release some productions. 
His first release on KOMPAKT was a hit and he quickly joined the label's roster in 2006. This collaboration with the famous German label led to other high quality releases.
It was not long before other prestigious labels invited him to work with them : Bedrock, Boyznoize, Skryptöm or Scandium. This put him in the limelight and allowed him to play in the most mythical clubs and festivals around the world (Rex Club, Berghain, Panoramabar, Goa, Astropolis, TomorrowLand, Nuits Sonores...)

His, success, patience and passion let him to producing remixes for some of the world's most famous artists : Moby, Röyksopp, Miss Kittin & the Hacker, Simian Mobile Disco, Oxia or, more recently, Green Velvet.

On stage and in the studio, Maxime is what you would call a geek. He loves old analog machines but is is also crazy about the latest technologies available to producers. He creates, invents, fiddles around. His LIVE performances are a showcase for this passion: he travels with many of his machines (Lemur, Monome, WiiMote...)

He will soon be back with a set designed for our eyes as much as for our ears. It will no doubt be greatly appreciated by electro fans.

Official Website <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Maxime+Dangles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.