There are nine different acts by the name of May:

1. Screamo band from Germany. Primary may consisted of Oliver Schwarz and Alexander Scheibe.
The early rehearsals took place in a backyard garage of a friends grandma.That was about spring 2004. The inspiration that made them do so was the pasion to the music and still the knowledge of being nontypical in comparison to mainstream teenagers.May is this day the first and the only band they took part in.Surely because it is the right one. Later on the rehearsals took place in their nurseries.What did not mean any fun to their parents.
In the following month may tried to include a bass into their songs. Unfortunately the bass singer was not able to integrate hisself into the band and had to go.
For some gigs in schools and on parties Olivers brother Sebastian Schwarz, who is known for his movies ("der taube maler" e.g.) and for his book "Martha my dear" took part in the band and did some screaming parts.
Mays bass singer Falk Andreas simultaneously started a project with Sebastian wich was named "note.on.bathroom.mirror".It was named after a great logh song.This project giged two times and dissolved. Simultaneously and later on he played in two other Bands called "Callhour" and "Elder" wich giged even two times and dissolved.In all this bands he played guitar.His bigest root of making music was his brother Gert Andreas who plays in the Condre SCR .
May, exactly Olli and Alex decided to start some recordings in February 2005. Until this time falk did not know alex and olli well. He heard about the recording session in wittenbergs inner city tv channel and decided to have a look to, satisfying his intrests in audioengenering. During this week all grew friends and even bandmembers.
The rehearsals later took place at falks parents house and now take place in mays little sound studio,wich was lovely called mayspace studio by the condrescrs who recorded there. Truely its a sound absorbed room with the possibility of high quality 8-track recording.
In April 2006 May released their 4-track ep. called "diary: fo(u)r seasons" on denovali records.

(German May bio is taken off their official myspace: http://www.myspace.com/maysite)

2.MAY (also known as: Mei, メイ, 메이) is a Korean singer, well known in South Korea for singing the song "Miracle". She speaks Korean, Japanese, and English.

MAY was born on May 6, 1982 in Seoul, South Korea. She started her music career in South Korea in late 2005 singing "Miracle", a well known song in South Korea. Within a month she was chosen by Avex's Show Case Live because she was able to speak Japanese. By early 2006 she was signed to Avex Trax in Japan, and had a contract to publish her first EP "WONDERLAND" with CJ Music in South Korea, which charted at #23 in the Korean top 200 and sold 743 copies within the first week. Within 3 months, MAY released her second EP "SMILE" with a different publisher, Doremi Media in South Korea, and it charted at #27 and sold 695 copies in the first week. By 2007, MAY had released her first Japanese Album "a Little Happiness" which charted at #77 on Oricon.

3.. May are a future metal/experimental band from Wollongong in New South Wales, Australia.

4.. Skate punk band from Slovenia. myspace: http://www.myspace.com/mayskatepunkers

5.. Vocalist of the Russian R'n'B band "Fish Bones". See "Milana May" for correct artist.

6.. Kumpulan May ialah sebuah kumpulan rock yang aktif di Malaysia semenjak penghujung 1980-an. Kumpulan ini membawakan lagu-lagu berbahasa Melayu dan dicipta oleh pemuzik lain.
                   Sejarah
Kumpulan MAY ditubuhkan oleh 4 orang anak muda daripada kampung Manjoi, Ipoh, Perak yang mengikuti langkah SYJ dengan menubuhkan sebuah kumpulan muzik aliran keras. Nama MAY diambil sempena pangkal huruf nama timang-timangan keempat-empat mereka iaitu 'M' bagi nama Mus (Mustaffa Din) dan Man (Sharip), 'A' bagi Abu (Nasir) dan 'Y' bagi Yus (Mohktar).

7.. May is a french coldwave band. Stuff available @ http://www.fatalobject.com/fatalobject_official_website.ws

8. May is an arabic singer from Egypt. She has one album out , "May 2009" 

9. May are a Germany alternative/synthpop band. May is Maeva Oria May (voc), Christoph Mause (git, keys, programming) and Carsten Schmidt (bass, keys, programming). http://listentomay.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/May">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.