"Their songs are tight and sleek disco nuggets, glamorous and totally accessible. MAY68 possess
potential in spades." NME
"Let MAY68 kick your ass all the way to the dancefloor.” Clash
"More infectious than swine flu and fierce enough to drive La Roux and Little Boots to full-blown
commercial suicide." The Fly

MAY68 were born in late 2008, the creative output of a 5 piece collective of musicians, artists, producers, and DJs. Having met in the throngs of Manchester’s bustling alternative club scene, they set out to create their own sound taking influences from New York disco, post-punk, Chicago house, vintage electronics, classic pop and science fiction soundtracks.

Reacting to the frustration of mundane city life and with a desire for change the band reflect the ideals of their names sakes from Paris 1968, aiming to give a splash of colour to otherwise black and white surroundings.  Through a collection of creative minds, a ferocious optimism and a DIY ethos their objective is to share their ideas through an infectious blend of pop music and four to the floor sensibilities, stimulating the crowd’s hips whilst satisfying their heads with a unique sound and a colourful worldview.

Debut single, electro disco ‘My Ways’, and it’s tongue in cheek tale of a date gone wrong quickly caught the attention of radio with Nick Grimshaw, Zane Lowe, Huw Stephens, John Kennedy, Rob Da Bank and Eddy Temple-Morris all supporting the single and remixes.
Smouldering electronic second single ‘The Prisoner’ was released on the taste making Kitsuné label in October 2010 and featured on the Kitsuné Maison 10 compilation which generated huge interest throughout Europe and was supported by a their first European tour playing to packed venues in Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Holland and France. 

2011 has seen the band busy on the road again, playing in France with The Go! Team on the high profile Inrocks Indie Club tour and in the UK have proved to be the band of choice for supporting the best of the international live dance acts playing alongside Chk Chk Chk, Cut Copy, Hercules and Love Affair, Shit Robot and Holy Ghost! 

Live favourite and disco flecked ‘White Lies’ will be released on 12” vinyl and digital download on 11th July through PIAS imprint label ‘Black Duck Records’.  It gives a taster for what’s to come on the debut long player, currently being recorded at Moolah Rouge studios, Manchester and set for release in October 2011. MAY68 will be playing a short German tour in early June culminating in a headline slot at the Theatron Festival, Munich and then return to the UK for club shows and festival dates across summer. 

http://www.may68.com
http://www.myspace.com/may68uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/May68">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.