Maya and Vanya are a sister duo from Croatia, who have spent half of their life based in New Zealand, where they have been mainly involved with music and the art of spinning records, amongst other things; and have done their thing at various banquets and shindigs.

The sister duo grew up listening to a wide array of music blasting from their family record player.. from Gypsy Kings and Ladysmith Black Mambazo to The Beatles, Talking Heads and Rolling Stones. Gloria Gaynor to Larry Levan as well as funk and hip hop icons DJ Kool Herc, Grandmaster Flash and Bambaataa.

Their eclectic, fun sets and vast knowledge in music encompassing cross-cultural style, as well as great stage presence have made them become some of the most in-demand young DJs.
Having a slightly different music taste from one another, put together they create a unique blend of music to get the dancefloor pumping. With their styles ranging from upfront House, Tech-house, Disco to Nu Funk to the sub genres they are becoming ever so familiar for such as Tropical / Tribal House mixed with Dub and Big Basslines.
But their sound is unique and ever evolving..!

Booked to play at every major party in the country, the sisters have been holding a weekly residency at New Zealand’s freshest new venue Cassette9 for over a year now (where they have also been in charge of bringing over and hosting acts from labels such as Mad Decent, Dubsided, Made to Play, Spektrum, Brick Bandits, South Rakkas Crew, Sweat it Out, Bang Gang, Ol Head Records, Grindin’, Ghetto Division, Scatterblog and many more).

They have also played regularly at some of the countries top festivals and club nights such as: Ministry Of Sound, Summadayze, Rhythm N Vines NY Festival, Onelove, Deep Hard N Funky, Air NZ Fashion Week, Sounds of Summer, Slinky, Our:House, Fashion Beauty Music, Highlife, Electric, Torque and Signature Sounds. Where they have supported internationals such as Carl Cox, Digitalism, Fort Knox Five, A-Trak, Justin Martin, Busy P, DJ Mehdi and local talent Ladyhawke, Katchafire, Recloose and Magik Johnson among many others *.

Internationally they have played right across Australia- in Melbourne, Sydney, Gold Coast and Port Macquarie. Covering clubs such as Revolver, Eurotrash, The Brown Alley, QBar, WorldBar Sydney, Elsewhere Gold Coast, The Mercat Cross, Wah Wah Lounge, Tonic; and are already lining up further international gigs in Europe and America at the moment.


Their works have been featured on both local and international blogs and websites, with their recent summer mix in particular featured on Diplo's Mad Decent (which you can check out at: http://maddecent.com).

The girls also run their very own monthly art and music based party night called The Thursday Night Tea Party, claimed to be one of Auckland City’s best and most popular club nights.

They are closely associated with New Zealand’s premier electronic music station GeorgeFM, where they host a weekly radio show "Chaga" 8-10pm (NZ Time) every Tuesday on GeorgeFM 96.8, http://www.georgefm.co.nz/show91.html

Other major acts supported and asked to be upcoming support for include: Moby, Major Lazer, Switch/Solid Groove, DJ Nu Mark, Steve Aoki, Santigold, Darren Emerson, 2ManyDjs, Fake Blood, Crookers, Solo (uk), Drummatic Twins, Jack Beats, DJ Zinc, Riva Starr, Boy 8 Bit, Feadz, Don Diablo, Evil Nine, The Bloody Beetroots, Justin Martin, Nic Fanculli, Worthy, South Rakkas Crew, Richie Rich, Mark Knight, Alan Braxe, Thomas Gold, DJ Colette, D.I.M., Puzique, Renaissance Man, Bag Raiders, Van She, AJAX, Bang Gang Djs. TV Rock, Mad Decent's DJ Sega & Rob Threezy, KillaQueenz, Kora, Fiord, Antix, P Money, DJ Reno (Shapeshifter), Simon Flower, Emerson Todd, Kasey Taylor and many more.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MayaVanya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.