Years Active : 2005 - Present

Origin : Dhaka, Bangladesh

Genre : Heavy Metal

Members :

Vocal : Tridib
Guitars : Zeheen 
Guitars : Tamzid
Bass : Nadwee
Drums : Reaz


The lineup remained unchanged for almost two years since they form. Imran the guitarist got involved in his personal problems, which forced him to leave the tour. He was replaced by Zeheen Ahmed in 2008. Following the year 2010 the bassist Rusho also got busy with his working life so later he was replaced by Mechanix's current bassist Nadwee. The band began a new tour in August 2010. Mechanix is currenly working on the first solo album which will be hopefully released by end of 2010. 



Band History and Formation:
Mechanix is a Bangladeshi heavy metal band. In 2006, after leaving the bands Metrical and Annex Tridib, Tamzid, and Rusho decided that they will form a band. The main mission of this band will be the self development of their playing. Then they formed the band Called “Mechanix”. Reaz from Annex(vetust) Joined Mechanix as a permanent drummer. After that they were looking for a guitarist. Mechanix found Imran who used to play in Prisoners as a lead guitarist. 
Then the journey of Mechanix begins. Mechanix started with covering the songs like Holy Wars, Tornado of Souls, Hanger 18, master of puppets
Painkiller etc. From very beginning the band started with a very high note and got huge responds from the audiences. They performed in good number of underground shows since they started their journey. In 2007 biggest success for the band was participating in the competition Drockstar 2.They stood 8th position in that competition. In Drockstar 2 Mechanix got huge responds from all the parts of Bangladesh audiences and also from other countries too. Reaz from mechanix was awarded as the best drummer in Drockstar 2 competition. End of 2007 they did their 1st single Zodda which was released in "undergorund 2" a mixed album by komol (warfaze & Aurthohin) label by G series which was composed by Imran(ex guitarist). Imran left the band in 2008 because of his personal problems and as he composed the song he won the copy right of Zodda and he took his song back.The song no longer belongs to Mechanix. Then guitarist Zeheen Ahmed replaced Imran within a month. Mechanix choose him for his extreme music sense and capability to take the responsibilities as a band member of Mechanix. Mechanix started their album work and they are almost done with the recording process (2010 August). In 2009 another song Dhruboshor was released in ‘Rock 202 and 303” a band mixed by Asif Iqbal jewel (miles) under the label G series. Mechanix has performed almost all the big rock concerts and shows in Bangladesh but among them performing with Artcell in their 10 years insanity was a show that the band members think that it has been always a dream for them. The title of Mechanix's 1st solo album is “Oporajeyo” there will be 11 songs and hopefully soon it will release within 2010. And another mixed album song will be release in rock “404 &505” 2010 August. In 2010 august the band had to face their most difficult moments because the founder member of the band Ruhso is busy with his working life. Therefore they had to look for another bassist and Nadwee joined as new recruit in Mechanix. Though that wasn’t end for Rusho with mechanix. Infact he will be life long member in Mechanix and will also contribute in many ways in future. Mechanix is planning to release their debut album within 2010.

Discography :

Released singles

oDhruboshor (Rock 202 &303)
        Lyrics : Doyeedt Annahaal

oIttihas’71 (Rock404&505)
        Lyrcs : Doyeedt Annahaal

o     Shopner Chorus (Gorje Otho Bangladesh)
        Lyrics : Doyeedt Annahaal


Albums: 

Oporajeyo (2011)

Production Label: DLM

Release Date: 30th July 2011

Track list

1. Kalo Bikkhob

2. Bhranto Shopno

3. Bishhoy

4. Protipokkho

5. Hawar naam ey

6. Bodh

7. Prithibi 2011

8. Grihopalito Shobhhota

9. Potaka

10.Oporajeyo


Message from the Band: “Long Live Heavy Metal”

Contact Information:
www.mechanixlive.com

Tridib: tridiblive@gmail.com 
tridib@mechanixlive.com 

Reaz: devilreaz@hotmail.com

Zeheen: slient_metal@hotmail.com

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mechanix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.