PROJECT IDEOLOGY - 
  
Mechanical Organic was born from a desire to express myself individually and to write music without limitation or inhibition.  Mechanical Organic has presented me with a unique opportunity to explore life and music from a unique perspective.  I feel an intense desire to continually progress and to break new territory, and for the first time, to freely study music and subject matter at a political/social level.  My hope is to produce music that challenges while remaining instantly accessible and at the same time delve into the murky under currents unveiling conspiracy theories and hidden knowledge. 
  
MUSICAL IDEOLOGY - 
  
Putting this project together has been a real pleasure me.  From the moment I began piecing this thing together I knew I was developing something unique that would allow me to express everything I had ever wanted in music.  In a lot of ways it was extremely liberating to finally throw of the confining shackles of past experiences and work on something unique and fresh. In the past what seemed like a never ending journey has now evolved into a working, living, breathing entity that allows me to express my inner musical desires. It has been an enjoyable journey to say the least and one that I’m so glad I’ve undertaken. Every aspect of the recording and writing process was and is a learning experience.  From the outset I decided not to tackle the writing process in the way that was familiar to me. The musical direction that flowed from this mindset is a direct result of experimentation and constant layering of the sonic soundscape. The electronic/organic music that springs from this musical methodology is heavy and kind of industrial/ambient and contained a progressive element that gives the project a hard underpinning. The song writing is always melodic and musically interesting, even a little challenging in placed but over all the songs are accessible.  I will always write music that comes from the heart and never follow trends in an attempt at conformity. 
  
LYRICAL IDEOLOGY – 
  
An intense desire to gather information and to find out how the world really works has become an all consuming passion. Visiting websites such as “I Am The Witness” and “Vyzygoth’s Grassy Knoll” are a daily obsession. These websites in particular are a great source of political/conspiratorial information, information you wouldn't normally read in news papers or magazines.  If anyone is interested in the subject matter that I deal with in Mechanical Organic I recommend visiting these two sites.  You can download as many podcasts as you like, on a range of different subjects, and it’s all free.  They have so much information available that you really don’t need to go anywhere else.   My lyrical take on political conspiracy is directly inspired by these podcasts and articles that I’ve download, listened to and read.   
  
WHAT THIS PROJECT SOUNDS LIKE - 
  
If you where to pigeonhole the sound of Mechanical Organic, you would struggle to find a single category that would summarize the sound. Mech Org is predominately Heavy in nature with a hybrid Electronic/Industrial/Ambient element mixed with a progressive edge. The vocal melodies were written and structured in such a way that they convey a sense of intellect while remaining melodic and hook laden, powerful and sonically interesting. Many vocal harmonies are included to give the music a rich bed of backing voices. Many other unique vocal effects have been included to deliver a distinctive sonic experience. The heavy distorted bass work drives the Mech Org sound while a subtle panorama of keyboard textures highlights the delicate side of the project.  To accompany the music and vocals a range of sonic textures and panning sound effects have been included to makes the listening experience authentic and exotic.  Driving rhythms and hard hitting drums and percussion complete the sound with an overall balance between experimentation and catchy/memorable vocals and music. Mechanical Organic produces music that is melodic, lyrically forward thinking, heavy and musically unique in many ways.

GENRE - Hybrid Metal

SUB GENRE -Electronic/Industrial/Ambient/Progressive

“Mechanical Organic” is an original one man Heavy/Electronic/Industrial/Ambient/Progressive/Political/Conspiratorial project with a unique melodic edge.  
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mechanical+Organic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.