MED aka Medaphoar is a hip hop MC who has recorded with Madlib, Wildchild, and Oh No.

M.E.D's debut album was released on Stones Throw records in 2005. Entitled Push Comes to Shove, the album features production from Madlib, J Dilla, Oh No (Madlib's younger brother), and Just Blaze.

A CD entitled "Bang Ya Head" was released during Stones Throw's 2005 Tour and features M.E.D (known as Medaphoar) guest spots from 1998 to 2005.
M.E.D. made a dis track toward Canibus called "Lightwork."

The west coast MC called Medaphoar is known lately by the first three letters of his name: M to the E to the D. Three short letters for a long-awaited, full-length album coming at long last in 2005. 

Why the hold up? Heads have been checking for more heat from young MED for a good while – since his recent appearance on Madvillain’s “Raid” (Madvillainy, 2004) going back to his debut on the now-classic Soundpieces by Lootpack back in ‘99. He showed up on Quasimoto’s The Unseen (2000), Spinz’s  Proz and Conz (2006),and even made the sole MC appearance on Madlib’s acclaimed Shades of Blue. As an artist on Stones Throw, the man has three 12-inch single, and two ltd.-edition white label 12s, including the Cut Chemist-produced “Blind Man” and the Erykah Badu-jacking “Special” from 2004. All this heat and yet the album is ghost... until now. 

"Push Comes To Shove" is the official title of the album, and it’s nothing but rapid-fire bangers all over it. The track list features production by Stones Throw homies Madlib and Oh No, the almighty J Dilla (Jay Dee), and... if it’s all right with y’all... a little treat from platinum-plus hitmaker Just Blaze.

Representing the Oxnard, California family of MCs and b-boys that boasts luminaries such as Madlib, Oh No, Declaime, Wildchild and Kan Kick, MED stands out for his “perforating wordplay and extraterrestrial breath control” (URB Magazine). His subject matter reflects the struggles and hustles of a young black man caught between the street life of Oxnard and the nightlife of L.A. Fans can expect a healthy dose of muscular lyricism on "Push Comes to Shove", with guest MCs including J Dilla (rapping on and producing the lead single “Push”) and (...oh sh*t!) the one and only Diamond D, for that all-time heavyweight flavor.

In 2009 he released his 100 Dolla Billz 12" single.

www.stonesthrow.com/med


2) Med (means "Honey" in slovak) is indie band from Bratislava, Slovakia, which was formed in the late 90s. They have released their first official album (digital release only, available at http://slnkorecords.sk) on February 29 2012. In the same time band broke up.

 Official webpage - http://skupinamed.sk. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MED">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.