Alternative Death Metal from Finland.

Xenosis out now! https://www.levykauppax.fi/artist/medeia/xenosis/#598800

A dark star in a sea of monotonously predictable heavy bands, Medeia has stuck to one clear objective since its founding in 2002: creating a fresh, brutal sound rich in content and uncompromising in nature. Solely positive reviews for their self-produced and now sold-out debut album Quantum Holocaust: World Domination and the gut wrenching follow-up label release Cult stand as a loud testament to the success of that mission.

Following the success of their label debut (which also took Medeia around Europe alongside The Ocean), Medeia released the final instalment of their thematically twisted trilogy in May 2011, dubbing it Abandon All. Though lyrically picking up the tale of nuclear devastation from where “Cult” left off, musically Medeia again progressed by leaps and bounds, embracing whole new elements in their impassioned brand of aural battery and ensuring it sounds nothing short of exceptional. After the release of "Abandon All" Medeia spent an action-packed summer performing at all the top-of-the-line music festivals in Finland, solidifying the band's status as one of the top metal outfits in the country.

Medeia has made a point of bringing their trademark jaw-dropping energy to audiences across Finland and beyond, touring relentlessly and playing shows alongside such notable acts as Ozzy Osbourne, As I Lay Dying, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Between the Buried and Me, Entombed, Animals as Leaders, Decapitated, Raised Fist, Terror and Insomnium. They released their fourth album, Iconoclastic, during the band's European tour with Children of Bodom in October 2013. The tour consisted of 49 shows in 25 countries - the longest European tour ever undertaken by a Finnish band - and concluded with an eleven-show Finnish tour in support of Iconoclastic. 

The rapid outburst of 60 shows eventually proved too much for their lead singer Keijo Niinimaa who had practically been living on the road for the past couple of years and, in the spring of 2014, Keijo decided to leave Medeia. Keijo's departure brought on a line-up change with internet sensation Frans Aalto taking over vocal duties. Also known as Finowa, Frans is a talented multi-instrumentalist with a huge online following and an impressive skill set. Bolstered by his addition, the re-energized group hit the stages again alongside the best metal acts in Finland and released Manning the Helm, the hardest hitting EP of 2015.

...And the energy didn't stop there. Immediately after the acquisition of Frans Aalto, Medeia began making grand plans for an album that would be known as their crown jewel and the definition of alternative death metal. XENOSIS would thematically be the prologue to Medeia's album trilogy, while musically displaying everything that the band has to offer. The record turned out so ambitious that it kept the band in the studio for nearly two years, pushing the main song writer Samuli Peltola to his limits. Now the wait is over, and Medeia is ready to proudly present their own altered Genesis: Xenosis.

Members:
Frans Aalto
Samuli Peltola
Laura Dziadulewicz
Samuli Kuusinen
Janne Putkisaari
Pekko Mörö

www.medeiaband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Medeia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.