Meden Agan is a metal band from Athens, Greece that formed in 2005. The band consists of Maya (vocals), Dimitris "Diman" (guitars), Tolis (keyboards), Aris (bass), and Panos (drums). 
 
Meden Agan's Myspace

Meden Agan were formed back in November 2005 in Paris, France by guitarist Diman Koutsogiannopoulos. Their first demo was released in April 2006 and received very good reviews and feedback. Later on they recorded their debut full-length album entitled "Illusions" which was released in November 2007. It contained epic/progressive metal songs with male vocals. During that period, the band shared the stage with bands like Pain Salvation, Skyclad, Within Temptation, After All, Bloodtales, ETHS, and The Old Dead Tree.

After a one-year hiatus as Diman returned to Greece, Meden Agan were reformed with new members including female leggero soprano Iliana Tsakiraki and started working on new material resulting in the release of an EP under the name "Nemesis – Promo 2010" containing five progressive/symphonic metal songs with operatic vocals. The line-up was: Iliana Tsakiraki (vocals), Diman Koutsogiannopoulos (guitars), Tolis Mikroulis (keyboards), Aris Nikoleris (bass), and Panos Paplomatas (drums).

Soon after, the band entered the studio in order to record their album "Erevos Aenaon" which was released in September 2011. It was recorded at ARTemis Studios, and produced,mixed and mastered by Mark Adrian (Elysion, Bare Infinity, Bob Katsionis). The album artwork and photo shoot were made by Seth Siro Anton (Septicflesh, Paradise Lost, Kamelot).

Upon the release of the album, Panos (drums) left the band to be replaced initially by Ploutarchos Tsouris and later on by Philip Stone. Meden Agan performed several live shows including support acts for Tarja, Epica, Maiden United, V.O.A and the participation in the "Metal Female Voices Fest X" in Belgium in October 2012. 

In February 2013, Meden Agan parted ways with lead vocalist Iliana due to musical differences. After 5 months of auditions, coloratura soprano Maya Kampaki joined the band and together with Meden Agan's original drummer and main lyricist, who returned behind the drumkit, the band entered ARTemis studios late 2013 to record their new album entitled “Lacrima Dei”. Mastering was done at Finnvox studios, Finland by - the well known - Mika Jussila (Nightwish, Children of Bodom, Stratovarius). 

Release of the album is scheduled for September 2014 by "No Regrets Records". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Meden+Agan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.