Formed in 1992, a bunch of no hopers from rural England decided on trying to become the most intense band in the country. Forged on a diet of Slayer and the heavier end of the spectrum (bear in mind they were in Guns and Roses era then!) the band went through numerous changes before settling down to Paul on Vocals, Neil on Guitar, Bones on Bass and Jammer on drums. Relentless touring followed, playing every town, usually to nobody. Several demos were recorded, with mags like Terrorizer pricking their ears up suspiciously. Then, one day Household Name records appeared offering a single and an album, the band snapped the offer up and the 7” All Our Friends Are Dead was released June 97. Kerrang gave it single of the week, and Dani Filth gave it single of the month in Metal Hammer. The band continued relentless roadwork, learning its intensity in sweaty hardcore gigs….and then taking this new found fury to the rock crowds.

A year later the album ‘A Conversation Alone’ was released to much acclaim, setting the band on even more touring, with everybody from Strapping Young Lad, Entombed, Skinlab, Soulfly through to Extreme Noise Terror, Logical Nonsense and every band the UK could throw at them. By this time mission had been accomplished, hailed as the most intense band in the UK the band went about writing their 2nd album, only stopping to record a split EP with h/c oiks Freebase. A deal with Copro was settled and in June 2000 ‘Dying From The Inside’ was released, to much acclaim here, not so in a lot of places. The band themselves weren’t all that happy, with vocalist Paul not listening to it since the day it was recorded to the present day! The cracks were beginning to show already, turmoils in and out of the band, personality clashes, drugs, booze, and what did they do? Tour, and the blue touch paper was lit…..

Gig after gig, playing with every band they could…bands like Raging Speedhorn and the Lost Prophets all did their stint opening up for the band, and the band themselves toured with The Haunted, Strapping Young Lad again…and a massive gig with Cradle of Filth, but it was too late. The last gig was supporting punk gods Conflict and it ended as it started, playing to a whole bunch of people that didn’t really get it. Aside from the inner battles, no one gave a fuck, and the band collapsed after a fight over a blown fuse. Jammer and Mark went on to form Murder One, later joined by Paul. The legacy of the Nocte still lives on, with the band deemed as a major influence on the UK underground scene….to quote the band..

“ We will NEVER reform, because we were too honest in the first place. We sounded like Britains angriest, most intense band then, because we were angry, intense people. We would tear f***ing strips off the wannabes in today’s ‘extreme’ scene…yes, our last record sucked but live we were f***ing untouchable, and we dare anyone we played with to question that fact. If we reformed now, we would be a parody of ourselves, a karaoke band…there wouldn’t be the fire and anger, and we wouldn’t disrespect ourselves like that, let alone any fans who wanted to see us. If you would have supported us when we were going, it may not have fizzled out like that..but as you never… you can f*** yourselves” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Medulla+Nocte">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.