There are numerous artists whom have taken the name Medusa:

1) The punk rock band from the UK.
2) The indie/electronic band from Mumbai now known as Sky Rabbit.
3) The indie rock band from Finland.
4) The metal band from Melbourne, Australia.
5) The power/prog band from Milton Keynes, England.
6) The women's choir from Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
7) The 70's NWOBHM band from England.
8) The heavy metal band from Bitola, FNRY Macedonia.
9) The mid-to-late 90's underground rapper from LA.
10) The metal/thrash/hardcore band featuring members of Racebannon, from Bloomington, Indiana.
11) The metal band from Montreal, Canada.
12) The metal band from Santos-SP, Brazil.
13) The 70's hard rock/heavy psych band from Mexico.
14) The new age/electronic work of Irek Dreger.
15) The mid-70's proto-metal band from Chicago, IL.
16) The 80s metal band from Japan. 
17) Girls Planet 999 Creation Mission team
18) The experimental pop artist from Buffalo, NY.

1) Medusa begun life as an 80's-influenced rock group in late 2006. In 2007 they hit the national newspapers in the UK amid scandal, their live appearances at venues such as Camden Underworld, Manchester Academy, M-Two, Liverpool’s Cavern Club and the Nice ‘n’ Sleazy Festival, served to prove the huge demand for a genuine rock band with unique style and wild passion. In 2011 they released the album Can't Fucking Win featuring mixes from top producer Romesh Dodangoda. They hit the newspapers again in 2012 for a story involving a dwarf that starred in their music video to the song Tinkerbell. They have been compared to a cross between Nirvana, Van Halen and Sex Pistols for a mixture of their styles of rock 'n' roll and punk music. In October 2014, the third album Headcase's Handbook was released which can be seen at the band's official website from which all their music can be downloaded.
http://www.medusaworld.co.uk http://www.facebook.com/medusauk

2) Medusa, the progressive/industrial band from Mumbai has been creating waves in the Metal circuit since they hit the stage for the first time.

The band - Raxit Tiwari (vocals). Siddharth Shah (bass), Rahul Nadkarni (lead/rhythm guitar), Jay Rowkavi (drums), Noel Menezes (keyboard) - with its unique industrial sound and outstanding originals has never left a venue unscathed and has managed to win numerous accolades,in the relatively short year that they have been around.

With original compositions like Crop, Whitesign, and Drip that have made their mark as crowd favorites in their home city of Mumbai, and getting requests for them in cities where the band hasn t played before, is just an example of the sheer talent and musicality that the band holds. With influences ranging from Heavy Metal to Electronica, this is a band that is truly unique. The titles that the band has managed to gather in this short period of time is a feat that goes unparalleled by any other band of their age.

Awarded 2nd Runners up at Unmaad,the Rock Competition of IIM Bangalore January 2004.
Awarded 1st Runners up at the St. Francis Engineering College Rock Competition February 2004.
Awarded Best College Band From Mumbai at the MTV Hero Honda Campus Rock Idols September 2004.
The original Drip chosen for the GIR 2005 compilation album, January 2005.

Medusa have also released a full length album titled Advisory, and their latest song Beep Off was featured on Great Indian Rock X compiliation CD released by RSJ Records, the in-house record label of the New Delhi-based Indian Rock magazine Rock Street Journal.

3)  http://www.medusarock.net

4) Medusa are a metal band from Melbourne, Australia who have built up a reputation as one of the country's premier independent artists, as well as compelling live act.

They have received some very favourable press locally and internationally, including an 8/10 in a review of their debut EP Zero Life in Metal Hammer magazine.

The follow up full-length album Darker Shade Of Hate was initially independently released, and later repackaged for distribution by Modern Invasion. http://www.medusa.au.com

Discography:
Zero Life EP (2000)
Darker Shade Of Hate (2003), repackaged release (2006)

5) http://www.myspace.com/thebandmedusa/

7)  Medusa was an influential NWOBHM band from Worcestershire, UK, formed in 1978. The band featured Lance Perkins on guitar, and Steve Grimmett on vocals, who went on to gain fame in Chateaux, Onlsaught, and the legendary NWOBHM Melodic Metal band Grim Reaper. Medusa put out several demos and played many live shows.

9)  A member of Project Blowed, as well as lead vocalist in group Feline Science, she was briefly signed to Goodvibe Records, through which she released an EP entitled Do It The Way You Feel it.

11)  http://www.myspace.com/medusaheavymetal/ and http://www.youtube.com/medusamontreal/

12) http://www.myspace.com/medusaoficial/

14)  http://www.irekdreger.com/medusaen.htm

17) Medusa is a seven-member girl group formed for Girls Planet 999's Creation Mission. The team consists of K-Group's Kim Da Yeon (김다연), C-Group's Shen Xiao Ting (沈小婷), Su Rui Qi (苏芮琪), Wen Zhe (文哲), Cai Bing (蔡冰) and Fu Ya Ning (符雅凝), and J-Group's Ezaki Hikaru (江崎 ひかる). The team performed and released "Snake".

18) Medusa is a nonbinary experimental artist from New York. They describe their music as revenge pop, with heavy influences taken from hyperpop, hip-hop, art rock, among others. In January of 2021, their song, Danny Phantom, became popular on video sharing platform TikTok. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Medusa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.