Melodic Thrash/Death Metal From France ......Town of Birth Besançon

Web: http://www.myspace.com/mehtnakriss

2005
 Schap create the band
 2006
 The line-up is complete with Schap, Micka (shades of syn), Dut's (Diluvian), Trivette (Diluvian), Mike, Yve and Envust .
 But followed by the consecutive departure of Yve, Envust et Micka for personal reasons, in spite of the good returns.
 2007
 The band Split up, but can reborn with the arrival of Laetitia, Doudou and Yvan . Then all was ok to continue with the only voice of Trivette.
 2008
 In the middle of 2008 Dut's and Trivette left Mehtnakriss to have 100% of their time for Diluvian, but the band react quickly and engage the singer Alix (Vakuum) and their friend Philou (Simone Dallas). With this finally ready line-up, the repetitions can start, and the first set was build to be ready for the upcoming shows. In the early 2009, mehtnakriss is often on the road, to play for the first time in front of some different public. The decision was taken to continue without Laetitia, Synth will be included differently in the future.
 2009
 The recording of the first professional CD, a 6 tracks EP, start in March 2009 and is expected for august. Philou decided to leave the band after the show of the 27th of june, because of the time and motivation to give for the band. Chewkey took the place quickly and work hardly to be ready for the shows and evolution of the setlist in September!
 2010
 The band join the Noise Head Records team to record their first longplayer !
 The band already played with Destinity, Dieresis, Dungortheb, Aabsinthe (Final of the Metallian Battle contest), Blasted (Ch), Arkhan (Ch), Winds Of Torment, The Seven Gates, Octavion, Diluvian, Blame or Smeti Duchu,...

Members:
Alix: Voices
Schap: Guitars
David: Guitars
Chewkey : Bass
Yvan: Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mehtnakriss">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.