There are two bands with the same name: 

1. Melancholy, The name speaks for itself, with the bands harmonic, down pulling music and lyrics. Melancholy rose at 2005, with a promise of a new music style, distinctive enough to break into any heart and bleed in it, hence their passion derives from their own hearts, melancholic visions, grieving events and depressing life itself rules the atmosphere of their music, with every chord as an image, and every beat as a rush and every rhythm as lust,,, creating a collision of emotions. Melancholy is a lebanese metal band.
Their latest released debut album is "Through the Gospel"
here's the band's facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Melancholy/153227288037793?sk=info
and here's their official website: www.melancholyband.com


2.From Moscow, Russian Federation -- Melancholy was formed on the 12th of December in 1998. It's true to say that the sound of Melancholy was steering in such directions as Death, Gothic and Doom with elements of Nu-Metal. Their first release titled "The Fatal Deconstruction of The World", which was recorded on simple audio cassettes. In 2002 at Melancholy's studio Mindcrusher labs, the group recorded their first full length album titled "Fear Of Emptiness". This album was regarded as the real debut of the group. After many of changes in members and difficult decisions, Melancholy decided to make a risky step (in the opinion of Russian metal underground) - in 2003 the band released a maxi-single "Closed Eyes". At this very moment there appeared the idea to use new musical instrument Cello and that has changed the overall sound of the group and gave them new life. The second full album "Abeyance" (2004) was recorded at last. This work has become the first one with new sounding (including the cover-version on the famous "No ordinary love" by great jazz-singer Sade). The music was completely different: there was a new electronic sound mixed together with harder guitar riffs, the low melodic sound of the cello together with female vocals that created an unrepeatable atmosphere of Melancholy's style that we can call Nu-Gothic-Metal. At the end of 2005, Melancholy recorded new maxi-single "Profet ver.1" (including cover version on the Fear Factory song "Replica"). Russian fans called this album the best spring album of 2006. On the 21st of October 2006, Melancholy released their full 3d album titled "NANO"...

The new album incorporates the full range of Melancholy, while members experiment with individual tastes. This has brought rise to a new and modern sound that hasn’t been heard within metal before. In 2006 Melancholy was nominated as best metal band at the annual alternative music awards RAMP-2006 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Melancholy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.