Melancholy Pessimism is a death metal/grindcore band from the Czech Republic.

At the birth of Melancholy Pessimism stood singer Vlasta "Killy" Mahdal, drummer and bassist Peter Malus Richard Kocourek. At the time helped out on guitar and Christopher of Krabathor Petya, who was soon replaced by Peter Pištěk. This group was founded in 1992 with the Pětiskladbové demo. Subsequently, the composition of the group changed several times in 1995 recorded a debut album "Recompense the Saints", published in March 1996 and the baptism took place in the presence of the British band Benediction. Sold it around 3000 pieces. Then again, changed the composition of the assembly, the core of the band formed in the future Vlasta and bassist Flegin.

In 1999 released album "Inconsistent World," which followed a year later the album "Evil Planet". On it, among other things is a cover of "Battery" from the repertoire of American thrash metal band Metallica. This group recorded the song in 1996 for pancake compilation "10 Years After ... A Tribute to Cliff Burton." While the album "Evil Planet" included elements of Moravian folk music, the next two albums, and Global Terrorization DreamKilllers apart from death metal and grindcore to be heard and jazz elements.

Melancholy Pessimism played 400 concerts in the Czech and Slovak Republics, but also in Switzerland and Portugal.  Several participated in festivals like Obscene Extreme, Brutal Assault, Nuclear Storm Attack Of Fire ... but also other smaller or larger events. In 2004, for example, appeared in Uherske Hradiste as support for the Canadian death metal band Kataklysm, or in 2009 drtičům Napalm Death. Melancholy Pessimism - it always was, is and will be a bunch of enthusiasts who are concerned primarily about entertainment, music itself and not least also the opportunity to shout their views on this world and the society in which we live.

Thanks to the life loss and adversity of the band members were forced Melancholy Pessimism its operations several times to interrupt, but since 2008 has again successfully on the scene and are here for you, how to entertain and think ... Enjoy!

Current line-up:

Vlasta "Killy" Mahdal - dancing and singing, a founding member (with the band since 1992)
Richard "Rich" Kocourek - guitar, founding member (1992 - 96, 2008 - now)
Peter "Malda" Malus - drums, founding member (1992-96, 2008 - now)
Tom "Beňa" Beníček - bass guitar (2009 - now)
Peter "Makamba" Velecký - Guitar, a new member of the group (ex-Mental Alienation, ex-DMC)

Ex members: Peter "Fivers" Andrýsek (1992-96, 2008 - 2010), Martin "Marthus" Škaroupka (Cradle of Filth, Inner Fear, Death ...), Happy Hal "Otyn" Tomanek (Pigsty), Peter "Chris "Christopher (ex-Krabathor, ex-Martyr), David" Smaller "Mensik (ex-No Promises, ex-Hypnos), Old Vytrhlík (ex-DMC, the ex-Radical Mental, ex-Internal Hate), Joe Cigánek (popstar the studio drummer now), Peter Pištěk (ex-Infanticide, Draco Hypnalis) David "Sitič" Szitaj (ex-Never Enough, RIP), Robert "Was" Wasseubauer (ex-Tartaros)

Homepage: http://bandzone.cz/melancholypessimism <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Melancholy+Pessimism">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.