There are two artists called Melmoth, one is a French psychedelic album from 1969 and the other is an Argentinean gothic band.

1] Dashiell Hedayat (Jack-Alain Léger) is a writer, poet and translator. He recorded two albums, "La Devanture des Ivresses" as Melmoth in 1969 and Obsolete as Dashiell Hedayat in 1971 with strong involvement of Gong and William S. Burroughs. 

2] Melmoth was formed in 1998, in Buenos Aires, when Pablo and Karen got together. Both started writing songs and Melmoth begun to develop its particular sound. Gustavo joined the band in November 2001 to complete the line-up.
In December 2001 Melmoth made its first live concert organized by the radio-show "La Misión de Los Eternos". For this event, we invited a strings section (violin, viola and cello) and a percussion duet to give an acoustic support to the electronic programming.
In 2002, two Melmoth's songs were included in the Electro-EBM compilation CD called "Plan Identitaat", released by the Nullrepublik label in Argentina. This compilation reached many countries and it was our first chance to show our songs through out the world to very distant places outside our country. On the same year, we also performed our second live show with the same line-up as in 2001.
In 2003, Melmoth played in several shows for different audiences. We also took part in the ..live soundtrack.. of the film ..Metropolis.. as part of a tribute to Fritz Lang, here in Argentina, with other six electronic bands. This event was called "Electropolis".
In March 2004 we had the pleasure of being invited for taking part at Wayne Hussey's show here in Buenos Aires, as an opening act. This show was very important for us because, as a support of the electronic programming, scenery and the vocal performance, we played live drums, bass and backing vocals. In the future, we will also include live guitar too. Our last live show as unsigned band was in September 2004 at Gothic BA with the same line-up.
After the release of "Living for the Kingdom's Will" (via Twilight Records) we performed live once again with more guest musicians on stage and made a video clip for "Buried in Paris" (you can enjoy it here at my space). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Melmoth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.