In 1999 the common passion of creating music lead the carinthian (south Austria) members Andreas Mataln, Martin Mataln, Peter Lengfeldner, Waltl Helmut, and Daniel Huber of "MELY" together. The name which derives from melancholy has been program form the beginning which doesn't mean that Mely don't know how to rock. It rather means that the five Austrians don't spent much time on scratching the surface but engage with Dark Metal out of deeper regions with high recognize worth.

After intensive rehearsing and some gigs the first Longplayer  „There are days...“ was still recorded in the founding year. On it you can find nine dynamic and emotional deep under the skin going titles which brought Mely lots of great resonance and the status of being more than just another underground band.

In 2003 Mely released their 2nd studio album "...reel through my wave". The ten tracks represent an atmospheric and melodic enhancement in Melys development as musicians. Again Mely collected lots of great reviews an even more international attention according to their live appearances. Whether as support for e.g. Ektomorf, Anathema, Moonsorrow, Leaves Eyes, Swallow the Sun, Graveworm, Emil Bulls,... the finals of the "Austrian Band Contest" or on the main stage of the "Metalcamp 2006" (Opeth, My dying Bride, Dimmu Borgir,...), Mely showed what they are able to give and the fans loved it. In general however "MELY" are insatiable for feeling the energy between them and their audience and love to live music.

Naturally in meantime the band rasped with heart blood and sweat on new songs. Enhancement in all concerns where thereby supreme law. With the new material recorded in May 2007 the band could gain their first record deal and their 3rd album „...leave and enter empty rooms...“ to be released in Nov. 2007. Again the resonances were pretty good which brought 'em a first European Tour in April 2008 with Xandria (D) and Stoneman (CH).

After this pretty well done Tour - sad but true - Helmut decided to leave the band due to personal reasons. A bit shocked bout his decision, but well knowing that the show must go on, Mely decided to look for a new drummer and set the next step by recording a follow up to „...leave and enter empty rooms...“. In September Mely announced Hannes Ganeider to be their new drummer and now they are ready to rock with their new album "Portrait of a Porcelain Doll" to be released on 3rd April 2009 by the Label Silverwolf Productions.

Homepage: http://www.mely.at
Fanpage: http://www.mely.at.tf
Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/melymyspace
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Mely/42654213198

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mely">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.