MEMEST is born at the beginning of 2002, from the remains of Human Waste, one of the pioneer bands in the Spanish death metal scene and that in its last times had evolved towards more avant-garde and more experimental styles.

Human Waste published 2 demo-tapes and 2 CDs, like this as also it appeared in numerous compilations, receiving good criticisms as much at national level as international. With the dissolution of Human Waste, MEMEST sees the light; in that moment it is constituted by Dani (drums), Jaume (guitar), Anselmo (guitar) and Carlos (voice). Little time afterwards, Pablo Castro (bass) and Adolfo Aixalà (synthesizers and programming) are joined the group; they were two members proceeding from Zenith and Cabello de Angel, hard rock bands with a certain repercussion on the area in the decade of the 90'. After several concerts in the demarcation of Tarragona (Spain), Pablo gives up the band, being replaced by Sebastià Masià, proceeding from Beleño and Hombre Como No. With this line up, in 2004, MEMEST records a mini-CD with the title "A Wall Between Our Love And Yours", characterized by a predominant style of electronic metal, with abundance of synthesizers, programmed parts and the participation of female voices.

In 2007, after a long self-reflection period, the band is redefined to itself and, finally, remains reformed as quartet, with Dani (drums), Jaume (guitar), Anselmo (bass) and Carlos (voice and guitar). The current style is much more aggressive, faster and stronger, with a clear base of heavy rock n' roll and some parts nearer to doom, in the line of bands as Black Sabbath or Motörhead, or other more modern as Krux, Entombed or High On Fire.

At the present, MEMEST is working to finish the recording of its new songs and to be able to edit them in a near future, with the target of reactivating the formation to the complete one and starting to be due again in live; also there will be space for some song rescued from the stage of Human Waste and some version as Iron Man of Black Sabbath. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MEMEST">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.