1.

EP INFO-
1. .589
2. Erasure
3. Unclear Mental Portraits from Lives Past (Part 1)
4. Unclear Mental Portraits from Lives Past (Part 2)

 Memory is a progressive death metal band formed in Chula Vista, California following Oscar Padilla's departure from Gortuary. After some song writing, Oscar met Mateo Bernal and started practicing regularly and slowly writing music for "Unclear Mental Portraits from Lives Past". After searching San Diego for a drummer skilled enough to take on the job, Memory decided to continue on without one, and enlisted Shaun Pena for drum programming duties. Shortly afterwards, Mateo and Oscar sat down with Shaun and recorded "Unclear Mental Portraits from Lives Past" at JagPaw studios'. Shortly after the recording was completed, Nick Clawson was added to the lineup as vocalist. The three sat, copied, packaged, and then distributed over 150 copies of "Unclear Mental Portraits from Lives Past" throughout the US at the bands own expense, while the rest were distributed in Europe by their good friends in Condemned. It was during this time that Glenn Davis (Gortuary) was added as a live guitarist.

In late 2012 Memory was contacted by an interested drummer named Aaron Ashby (Former Man Destroys Himself, His Irate Life). After a few rehearsals, Aaron was added as a permanent drummer. It was around this time that Glenn Davis also became a full time member, finally solidifying the Memory line up after almost 3 years.
. 
2. Memory is a metalcore/melodic death metal band formed on the ruins of two bands in summer of 2007 in Domodedovo, Russia. In autumn they start performing their material in Moscow music clubs. After the first (pretty successful) show unexpected changes occur - bassist leaves the band due to strange surcumstances. And the friend of them, bass-guitarist of Grom, Stanislav, fills the hole. Memory is currently working on the new material, and from time to time performs at gigs.

Current line-up is:

Anton Alekseichik - vox
Nikita "Ost" Ryzhkov - guitar
Ilja Makalkin - guitar
Andrei "Basik" - bass
Yaroslav "Drummcheg" - drums

3. Memory is a pop punk/punk rock from Israel. They released their debut EP "Good to Go" in summer 2007.

4. Memory (메모리) is a korean singer.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Memory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.