Men I Trust is Dragos, Emma, Jessy, Mathieu and Alexis. Founded in 2014, the indie dance band from Montreal, Canada loves smooth sounds, calm melodies and simple rhythms that relax, but make your right foot tap and your chin bounce on the beats. They record, mix, master and shoot their music videos. 

Jessy and Dragos knew each other since their fourth year of high school. Back then (mid-2000’s), Dragos had somewhat of a background in classical piano and Jessy mastered the dark and esoteric art of the metal guitar solist.

In 2012, while finishing his master’s degree in audio postproduction at Laval University, Dragos spent most of his days and sleeping hours at the “LARC” studio working on his solo projects. He randomly met Jessy again, who was finishing his bachelor degree in Jazz guitar, in one of the faculty’s hallways and talked about doing a French-Touch / Italo-Disco track together. Some weeks later, they did just that. And it worked out so well that they decided to extend their collaboration to a whole project where many singers such as Odile Marmet-Rochefort, Gabrielle Shonk, Helena Deland and Geoffroy Sauvé, would be involved.

Between 2012 and 2016, all of Jessy’s and Dragos’ releases were made as part of Dragos’ masters and (dropped) PhD studies in order to gain access to the LARC’s infrastructure and to develop a unique sound.


Emma was a fortuitous encounter. In 2015 a mutual friend presented her to Dragos through a video posted over the Internet. She was casually singing and playing the guitar around a campfire with some of her friends. Emma’s voice was different, being less clear, more grainy and fragile with a mysterious twist that caught their attention. They reached her and tried recording one song called “Out in myself”, which turned to be one of the band’s easiest to record.

Jessy and Dragos then invited her to join them on live shows with Odile at the beginning of 2015. The girls’ voices blended wonderfully together and the band got lots of positive feedback from the experience. Emma has been part of Men I Trust since then.

With their second album “Headroom", Men I Trust truly became a trio. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Men+I+Trust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.