There are three different artists/bands:

1. Menace (British Punk Band)
Menace consisting of Charlie Casey (Bass) Steve Tannett (Guitar) Noel Martin (Drums) Morgan Webster (Singer)were London’s first generation no-nonsense boot boys, pre-dating Sham 69, who overtook them in terms of mass popularity, and the Cockney Rejects. They formed in 1976 at the Hope And Anchor in Islington when Webster met the other three members and were soon playing the Roxy. Their high-energy, unpretentious sets won them few admirers in the inkies, but they swiftly built a strong following that brought together both punks and skinheads. They’re often cited as the first to unite this potentially volatile mix. However, there was nothing premeditated about the audience they attracted. “Sham were more overt in their leanings towards skinheads,” Martin told me. “We had that crossover thing. We liked that idea.”
Menace were initially signed to Miles Copeland’s Illegal Records and made their debut in August 1977 with ‘Screwed Up’ backed by ‘Insane Society’. Charlie Harper of the UK Subs bought the very first copy when he bumped into Martin picking up the first box of singles from Copeland’s office. It was good, honest, working class sloganeering (“If we’re the working class/Why ain’t we got jobs?”) and more musically adept than you might imagine. Sniffing Glue trumpeted that they “are the best punk band in England today!” after witnessing some highly charged early shows at venues such as the Vortex and Hope And Anchor. (www.menace77.co.uk)

2. Menace (German Hip-Hop/Rap MC)
Menace considers himself as an anti-hero to the german rap game. The multi-talented MC made his first appearance in 2003 on the low budget release "Sklaven der Technics" from a crew called "Dichtergilde", consisting of Menace himself, the oldschool-MC König Lyr and DJ Lide. After some touring and different feature appearances Menace hit the streets in 2005 as a part of the "So'twinz" (same cast as "Dichtergilde") and their highly requested free download EP "Proleten Pop 2007" which achieved 47.000 downloads in just 4 weeks. His next release was a song about voting behavior and the public lack of interest in political affairs called "Fresse halten, wählen gehen" which was released a few weeks bevor the German Bundestag elections in September 2005. Being a free download as well the song attained 57343 downloads in just 22 days.
After signing with the label "Loopdepartement" Menace finally released his first solo LP "Blut, Schweiss und Tränen" on October 13th in 2006. (www.menace.de www.myspace.com/menace79 www.loopdepartement.de)

3.MenacE (Italian Heavy Metal band)
MenacE is a Heavy Metal band from Vicenza (Italy) founded in 1997 by guitarist Dario Vicariotto. The band suffered many changes in lineup in the early years.
2000 was the year when the band really start to live. 
The band consisiting in Dario Vicariotto (lead guitar), Rob Savegnago (vox), Piero Viola (lead guitar), Luca Capalbo (bass), Nicola Cariolato (drums) played tons of explosive shows. In the summer 2002 finally they made thier debut album "Quake Metal" that was very well reviewed by the more important metal website in Italy and Europe.
For many reasons, in summer 2006, Dario decided to freeze the band.
Now in 2010 MenacE come back to life with new drummer Seba, and guitarist Alex.
(http://www.myspace.com/menaceitalia http://www.youtube.com/user/trueMenaceR)



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Menace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.