Mendacity was formed in 1994 by drummer Jose, guitarist/vocalist Axel, guitarist Ralph, and lead vocalist/bassist Carlos. Originally more of a straightforward Death metal band, they gigged in Florida and across its borders with bands such as Deicide, Malevolent Creation, Living Sacrifice, Brutality, Nonpoint, and Shai Hulud a.o.

Mendacity released the "Atrocity Reflected" demo in 1994, and later recorded their first full length Album “Imprisonment” in 1995. They were actively involved in the underground scene and featured in several ‘zines and even bigger international ‘zines like Terrorizer and Heavy Rock. In 1996 they were included in the compilation “Orchestrated Chaos” featuring several bands active in the underground.

In 1998 Mendacity recruited Omar as their new permanent bassist and went on to record their second Album "For Dear Life". This EP was recorded entirely live with the exception of the vocals and a small lead. The energy is apparent, and the music had increased in energy fusing hardcore, melodic, and even dissonance in a creative way that was quite new for the public at the time.

Then came a period where the members went in different directions, Axel joining Aghora, Jose touring with Bird of Ill Omen, Carlos joining the Marines etc. They would briefly rejoin in 2001 but only play one concert and then disbanding yet again. The majority of the members would then play in Para- a female fronted energetic rock band that gigged extensively in South Florida and was well received but would dissolve around 2004.

This allowed Axel and Jose to reunite with an enthusiasm bigger than ever to create something original and revisiting their old passion for heavy melodic music. They would write and demo several tracks while searching for members and would eventually be rejoined by original members Omar and Carlos. This marked a new beginning for Mendacity.

Their music has evolved greatly over the years. While still retaining aggression and melodic elements, Mendacity have opened their sound greatly by using more clean, textured and melodic guitars as well as melodic singing in addition to their traditional death metal vocals and distorted guitars. They have created a sort of ambient melodic death metal sound that was missing in South Florida and is more reminiscent of a European sound.

August 23rd, 2008 marked the release of their third album. They have since played regionally as well as internationally, been featured in countless of 'zines and radio stations, and were selected among thousands of other bands to play at the 2009 Taste of Chaos tour stop in Orlando, alongside bands such as Bring Me The Horizon and Thursday. They have recently completed a new promo that demonstrates the growth in their songwriting. The promo will be followed by a new album that is sure to captivate audiences worldwide. 

2: A Death Metal band from Ontario, Canada <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mendacity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.