Mendeed was a Metal band, formed in Dumbarton, Scotland. The band was active from 2000 until 2007 and played a mixture of classic heavy metal, thrash metal and metalcore.

The band was formed in 2000. At first the members saw it as nothing more than a hobby. Two years later they started recording songs which brought them a recording contract with UK label Rising Records in December of 2003.. The bands first recording for the label was the mini-album From Shadows Came Darkness which was released in September 2004 and produced by Mark Daghorn. Since its release tracks have been played on all the major rock and metal radio stations and a live session was recording and aired on BBC Radio 1 Rockshow. The same year brought the release of their first music video for the single Ignite The Flames. Relentless touring and intense live performances up and down the country have saw the band expand their fanbase and encouraged people to sit up and take notice. In 2005 they chared the stage with bands like Bleeding Through, Cradle Of Filth, Dragonforce,  God Forbid, Fear Factory and Slipknot.

In the meantime they signed a new contract with Nuclear Blast who released their debut record This War Will Last Forever in 2006. Following the success of this record the band played their first european tour with Born From Pain and Napalm Death. 2007 saw the release of their second album The Dead Live By Love.

In September of 2007 Nixon (lead guitar) anounced the breakup of Mendeed. As a reason for this he named  difficulties with their management.

Steve Nixon plays now in the Welsh Melodic Death Metal/Metalcore band Anterior. Kevin Matthews is since 2008 a member of Scottish Madman Is Absolute.

line-up:
vocals:       David Proctor
guitar:      Steve Nixon
guitar:      Steph Gildea
bass, vovals: Chris Lavery
drums:   Kevin Matthews

Discography:
2002 Killing Something Beautiful  (EP, Casket Records)
2003 As We Rise (EP, self released)
2004 From Shadows Came Darkness  (EP, Rising Records)
2006 This War Will Last Forever             (Rising Records)
2006  Positive Metal Attitude                   (EP, Rising Records)
2007 The Dead Live By Love                  (Nuclear Blast)
2008  Shadows.War.Love - The Very Best Of Mendeed                   (Best Of, Rising Records)


www.myspace.com/mendeed <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mendeed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.