There is 2 artists with the name Mensura:

1. Collaboration between Danish DJ and producers Felix Hargreaves and Kasper Smed Nielsen (aka Mikkas). So far they have released one single named "Be Yourself" and it has been released 28th September 2011.

Link to Mensura's official facebook page.

2. Mensura, a finnish black/death metal band, was originally formed during the summer of 2003. The original composition of the band was Perttu Saarsalmi - Drums, Janne Lehtola - Bass, Sampo Riikonen - guitar, Juha Gogulski - synths, Pate Nuorteva - guitars and vocals. With this crew the band played their very first gig in Nosturi (12.11.2003) and made their first demo called "Sagas". But inside the band, there was a huge storm approaching. In few weeks the musical differences almost demolished the band. 

A difficult decision had to be made. Janne and Sampo were kicked out of the band, and Pekko Heikkilä joined the band, replacing Janne. In a while an idea of a violinist hit the young guys. They asked Siiri Korhonen to join Mensura. After a rocky road they had finally formed a stable form of a band. With this group of talented mucisians they played a few gigs and their second, "groundbreaking" demo "Crimson" was recorded and released to the underground in December 2004.

After the release of "Crimson", Mensura did a few gigs within the year 2005. The band made it to semifinals in the "Ääni Ja Vimma" band contest. Niko Häkkinen joined the band as the other guitarist and the band started to write material for the next release. The newest demo, "Serpentine Benediction" was recorded in December 2005 and released in early 2006. Mensura has played more gigs than ever in their career during the year and once again played in "Ääni Ja Vimma" band contest, gaining more popularity.

Current members: 

Pekko Heikkilä - Bass
Perttu Saarsalmi - Drums
Patrik Nuorteva - Guitar and vocals
Juha Gogulski - Keyboards
Siiri Korhonen - Violin
Niko Häkkinen - Guitar

Website: http://www.mensurametal.net/


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mensura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.