There are 3 different artists known as Menticide

(1) Menticide is an old school EBM act from Sweden. They made their first public appearance in 2006 at the Pre-Party for Tinitus electronic music festival in Stockholm, where they presented an intense live set of brutal yet melodic industrial body music.

During the spring of 2007, the duo of Christiaan R. (noise) and Johan van Damm (voice) further exposed their material in various live environments - from the confines of the hard edged club scene in Stockholm and the concrete slab heartland of industrial Dessau in Eastern Germany to the prestigious SAMA event in Gothenburg.

Menticide was previously known as VOLT and they preformed covers from bands such as Nitzer Ebb, DAF, Laibach, Rammstein and Pouppée Fabrikk. Now prior to the release of their debut album "N.M.E", containing only original tracks they've changed their name to "Menticide".

Before VOLT Christiaan was involved in the Pouppée Fabrikk side project Controlled Analogue Programming and Johan was the lead singer of the EBM act Dupont.

Unfortunally, Christiaan and Johan have decided to go separate ways. Johan will with all probability hit the stage soon again with a new constellation. Christiaan will likewise continue producing music, Menticide might return in a new shape and form in the future. 


(2) Menticide were a post-punk act of the early 80s, who released one seminal single "Bathroom Ideas Exhibition". Much lauded by John Peel at the time, they played a load of gigs in London and around the UK and then disappeared from view. Apparently 5 tracks were recorded for a follow-up 12" EP but sadly, considering the quality of the debut single, these never saw the light of day.


(3) Menticide was a crust punk band from the Olean, NY punk scene that lasted a few years until they finally broke up in 2000. Menticide was founded by bassist Ryan Cappaletti who runs a punk distribution called "Punks Before Profits". Menticide played live shows with band such as This Bike Is A Pipe Bomb, Against Me! & Leftover Crack. Menticide covered Fifteen's "Parking Lots" on their debut CD "Cry For A Revolution".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Menticide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.