There are more than one artist who go by the name "Meow Meow."

1) Shortwave radio squeals, Beatles-esque tape loops and healthy doses of analog knob-twiddling all underscore the pure-sugar pop tones of Snow Gas Bones. Meow Meow exists somewhere between Brill Building tradition and grandpa's pre-war 78 rpms played with a broken stylus. With hypnotic visual projections, all members sharing vocal duties and swapping instruments, they've brought their kaleidoscopic live shows up the west coast, down to SXSW and soon to the UK and Japan.

2) Named top ten “Best of Cabaret ” by Time Out New York, “cabaret diva of the highest order” by the New York Post and  “A phenomenon” by the Australian press, the “Post -post- modern cabaret diva” Meow Meow has wowed audiences globally with her unique brand of kamikaze cabaret and performance art exotica.

She’s won numerous Australian Green Room Awards and the New York Franklin Furnace Performance Art award. Her solo programme has been curated by David Bowie for his NY High Line Festival (alongside Laurie Anderson, Amy Winehouse, Arcade Fire and Ricky Gervais), and by Pina Bausch for her legendary dance-theatre festival 08 (alongside Baryshnikov, Sylvie Guillem, de Keersmaker and Paris Opera). The Sydney Opera House has presented several seasons of her works: “Beyond Glamour” and “Meow to the World: Crisis is Born”, and with Malthouse Theatre commissioned her full-length original music theatre piece VAMP! (with composer Iain Grandage). Sydney Festival and NY’s Performance Space122 have curated her piece “Insert the name of the Person You Love” – an ongoing work on the time it takes to fall in love - in collaboration with scientists and psychologists from Rutgers, Stonybrook and Oregon State Universities. Her concerts for the Carnegie Hall “Berlin in Lights” series at Neue Galerie NY have had sell-out performances, she has had extended seasons at the home of German cabaret, Bar Jeder Vernunft, Berlin.

In collaborations she has worked with John Cameron Mitchell (Hedwig, Shortbus), Rodney Fisher, John Jesurun, Lance Horne, Anthony Coleman (John Zorn), Iain Grandage, toured the US with Amanda Palmer and the Dresden Dolls, and with Pink Martini’s Thomas M Lauderdale has written and recorded the album “Here Kitty Kitty…The Lost Sessions” due for release in 09. She is a regular guest in the Olivier Award winning La Clique on the West End, and with the Weimar NY collective in NYC (with such performers as Justin Bond of Kiki and Herb, Penny Arcade, Taylor Mac and Julie Atlas Muz).

Meow has also performed in venues as diverse as SF MoMA, Sydney Opera House, Joe's Pub NYC ( her home in NYC), Highline Ballroom NYC, Hiro Ballroom NYC, The Neuberger Museum, American Repertory Theatre, Boston Orpheum, The Glamour Room Shanghai, the Berlin Philharmonic, Famous Spiegeltents globally, Darcelle XV, London's West End and numerous international arts festivals including Time Based Arts (US), Ann Arbor, Edinburgh, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide Cabaret Festival, Brisbane, Darwin, Queensland Music Festival, New Zealand, Braga Portugal and Festival Estuaire, France. 

Meow has recorded for WDR, RBB (Germany), ABC (Australia), Radio France and Sonic Arts (UK), and embarks next on a return season of “Wunderschön”, the Schoenberg Ensemble’s reworking of Schubert and Schumann with the Australian National Academy of Music ensemble, and a solo season in the US for Mikhail Baryshnikov’s Ringling International Arts Festival.

3) Raggacore/Breakcore producer from the Netherlands. More info on www.meowmeow.nl and www.soundcloud.com/meowdx. Has released on Sociopath Recordings and Ketacore Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Meow+Meow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.