There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Mephistopheles was a Melodic Black Metal band from Germany, whom later became more Symphonic Black. They were formed in 1994, in the same year of releasing their self-released demo. The demo was a brief three-piece work, intended for label approval. 

In 1997, they seeked a good starters label called Adipocere Records, prior to their release "Landscape Symphonies" which was a concept album based off of ancient landscape fantasies. The lineup for this album was: Ferun on guitars, Friirr the bassist, Nordischer Künstler on keyboard/synths, Eike C. Kroeger on vocals and Selphratus, the drummer.

Since Mephistopheles was now done with this label and was promised to be endorsed and have a better salary with this new label, they joined Last Episode Records, in 1999 - whilst releasing their album "Songs of the Desolate Ones" a followup album to Landscape Symphonies. This one accumulated the same Mephistopheles sound but, put aside the lyrical themes and made this become a harsher, angrier album pertaining to despair and darkness.

Now - in 2001, features a new line-up filled with three synthesizer players including Christoph Greger, Bernd Ammermann, Garvin Bösch whom also does bass along with; Eike-C. Kröger on vocals, Jury Kowalczyk on lead guitar and Hanno Weihe on backup guitar and symphonic backup vocals. In this year, they released "Modern Instinct's Purity" which was a concept album as well. It was based off of themes of future and science fictional type of style. The genre's motivation moved into a Symphonic Black Metal style, hence the themes.

After endless complaints with Last Episodes and their failure to pay Mephistopheles along with many other bands, they joined a new small label called Remedy, in 2003. They also came across the ideas of Shakespeare-influenced poetry but, in a deathly, evil manner. This remained Symphonic Black Metal but, had a smaller, dense lineup due to the members dropping out. It was a simple four-piece band and then since their poor income and lack of members, they disabandoned. Their hard attempts to impress the audience was not working.



2) Mephistopheles was a Blackened death doom band from Brazil.

3) Mephistopheles is a black metal band from Brazil.

4) Mephistopheles is a Technical Death Metal with Jazz influences band from Australia.
5) Mephistopheles is a black metal band from Croatia.

6) Mephistopheles is a heavy metal band from Japan, please change your tags to Ｍｅｐｈｉｓｔｏｐｈｅｌｅｓ.

7) Mephistopheles was a black metal band from Slovenia.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mephistopheles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.