There are several  bands with the name Mephisto.

1. Mephisto is an Italian dance project created by Maurizio D'ambrosio.
Maurizio D'ambrosio alias Mephisto was born in Verbania (Italy) on November 13th 1963. He started his career as DJ on the beginning of 1980. Du to his everlasting passion for music, he started to study self-taught all the recording studios innoations of that time like samplers, synthetizeds, effects, midi, etc. From 1990 to 1992 he practised these innovations in a disco club called Kursaal-Verbana, this was the beginning of his success. Between the disco and his little recording studio, he released the maxi single Euphemia in September 1991 (under the labels Palmares and Dance Opera). It became one of the most played records in discotheques, with 10 000 copies sold in Italy, but he did not get that much recognition.

In December 1992, he recorded, mixed and produced State Of Mind. On January 1993 it had reached #1 in all Italian dance charts, and in March it was the most sold single in Italy. He suddenly become very famous and appreciated, and started touring in the biggest Italian discos. His show was a mix of samplers, expanders, and high quick mix with records, together with a vocalist (which was a premiere).

In October 1993, the follow-up Keep On Groovin was released. He also did a remix of Corona's The Rhythm Of The Night.

In July 1994, he released under Palmares in Italy and Polydor in Germany the amazing eurodance single You Got Me Burnin Up. It featured the voice of Shunza (and an unknown rapper), and the maxi contains the following 4 mixes : Vocal Radio Remix, Bomba Deng Remix, Hard Tribal Remix & The Rap Remix. It went top 20 in almost all the European charts. Shunza (born in China in 1973) sung a lot of Mephisto tracks. Afterward, between 1998 and 2003, she went solo and did a fine career in Asia. In 1999, she won a big prize in Taiwan : the Golden Song Prize for best singer.

On December 1994 he climbed another step in his DJ career : a big discotheque in Lugano (Switzerland) offered him a one-year contract as resident DJ and artistic director. The same year, he released My Love and Back In Time.

At the beginning of 1996, he opened a new recording studio, and in March he created his own label Sisma Records. The first single to be produced under this label was the dream house single Voices. At the same moment, he was busy managing the discotheque Il Tokyo in Cannobio (Italy).

He kept on the dream house wave with the single Mystery Of Love, which had some success in France. It was licenced under ZYX in Germany and Remixed Records in Sweden.

1999 : he released Waitin' For Love, in the disco house style, followed by the single Superstition (both licensed under Airplay records in France)


2. Mephisto is also an Italian thrash/black metal band  is from Naples, and formed in the Summer of 2003 as a musical project which pays tribute to the old style thrash/death/black gods like Celtic Frost, Sodom, Venom, Destruction, Kreator, Bathory, Slaughter (Can) etc. With the current line-up of: Bard Manth - Vocals (Vermiis, Triumphator (Ita), VTA, Manth, Buxen), Hurne - Bass (Vermiis, Triumphator (Ita), Buxen), Zin - Guitars (Triumphator (Ita), Vermiis, Malvento, VTA, session for Urna (Ita)), Nefastus : Guitar (Primitivum, VTA), Huntor - Drums, Mephisto's  style of classic reborn black thrash pays homage to the gods yet is entirely original. With lyrical themes of hell, demons, death and destruction, they have gouged their place in the bowels of sickness, spreading their diseased darkness with various releases, including splits with Front Beast, Darkness, VTA, The True Endless, plus 3 demos, 1 CD-only release and 1 LP-only release, and have also covered Bathory's "Raise the dead" for a Bathory tribute album entitled "A Tribute from the Hordes to Bathory."


3. Mephisto is also the name of another Black Metal band from the United States. 

4. Mephisto is also a German speed/thrash metal band, and they released 2 albums - "Mephisto" in 1988 and "In Search Of Lost Refuge" in 1991.

5. Mephisto Hyper Fire Records:  USA/GERMANY
Mephisto bio:

"Mephisto" is the work of singer/songwriter/composer/multi-instrumentalist Chris Cooley (who also makes electronic music under the name "Kuen").  Mephisto was started in 2007 as Chris's live instrumentation/vocal counterpart to "Kuen".  Mephisto uses a mixture of eclectic instrumentation combined with heart felt lyricism and a minimalist recording style to achieve a form of post-punk/art-rock that is hard to categorize, and has seldom if ever been heard before.  With influences ranging from Nick Cave and Tom Waits to Ween to Black Sabbath...  and lyrical content ranging from songs of love and loss.. to occult and esoteric subject matter.

Chris is originally from the Pacific Northwest, and currently resides in Los Angeles.  Aside from his musical endeavors with "Kuen" and "Mephisto", He also produces music for "The Disclosure Project" and composes music for various film projects.

6. Mephisto was a power metal band from Nové Zámky, Slovakia. The band was founded in 1992. They had two full-lenght albums: Eternal Dreams (1994), Darkest Shade (1996).

7. Mephisto is a black/gothic metal band from Holguín, Holguín, Cuba that formed in 1996 and released two albums, Reborn from Ashes (2016) and Pentafixion (2021). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mephisto">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.