Mercilless formed in 2006 by friends crazy for Thrash Metal, even if stabilized with Thiago guitar and Vocals, William Drums, Ramon guitars and Rafael Bass. The proposal of the band and play the purest Thrash Metal influenced by classic bands as Kreator, Slayer, Vio-lence, Dark Angel, Exodus and many others, but with an own sound without influencing leave completely by bands mentioned above which certainly differs Mercilless of the other bands of the genre.

At Home, 2007 the band has plans to record his demo, even with difficulty to test and even touch and launched the much awaited "Possessed BY Thrash" recorded in JF / MG during the days 29 and Sept. 30 of that same year with 4 tracks all in English with lyrics depicting themes such as social ills, degradation Human, and Thrash way of life etc...

After launching the band makes some shows until the end of 2007 the band suffers the first casualty of its line-up leaves Rafael (Bass) for the entry of Junior that brings more weight and energy to the band.

2008 begins with some shows that were very important so that the band could consolidate your name on the national scene, playing in other states such as Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro shows that these were very well accepted by thashers.

In that period the band begins to reap great criticism of its demo through specialized magazines and Fanzine both the world as Europe. And through these contacts the band received a proposal from the record XTREEM MUSIC of Spain for the launch of its first Full-Length, this proposal that left the band very surprised and excited thereby giving more power to the composition of new songs for the launch so that awaited album planned to be launched at the beginning of 2009.

At this moment the band is doing shows for the dissemination of demo "Possessed BY Thrash" and composing new tracks for this release as expected and we hope that soon we ae in your town triggering off their necks to the sound of MERCILLESS!!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mercilless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.