Meret Becker (Meredith Becker, born january 15th 1969 in Bremen) is a German actress and singer.  Meret was born the second child of an artist family at a Red Cross hospital in Bremen. Born in Bremen, but a Berliner at heart: at the age of four she came to Berlin, where she still lives with her daughter. Meret left after secondary school to dedicate herself to acting. 

At the age of seventeen she starred in her first TV feature film. At the same time she started her career as a cabaret singer. Among other artists, she has performed with Max Raabe, Geschwister Pfister, Georgette Dee and Cora Frost.

She has appeared in music videos by Volker Schlöndorff, Wim Wenders and U2.
She has worked with renowned directors such as Sönke Wortmann, Doris Dörrie, Dominik Graf, Helmut Dietl, Joseph Vilsmaier, Dani Levy, Vanessa Jopp, and last but not least, Steven Spielberg.

Meret's work has been honoured with the 'Adolf-Grimme-Preis', 'Bayrischen Filmpreis', the 'Filmband in Gold' and the 'goldene Kamera' awards. Her music composition for the film 'Pipermint – das Leben möglicherweise' won the 'Max-Öphüls Film Musik' Award. 
On stage she performed for the Pina Bausch dance theatre of Wuppertal, sang the Brecht/Weill opera 'Die Sieben Todsünden der Kleinbürger' in the opera house 'Gewandhaus Leipzig' and performed in Arnold Schönberg’s 'Pierrot Lunaire' conducted by Kent Nagano at the Philharmonie in Berlin.
For the production 'Wir heißen beide Anna', performed in honour of Bertold Brecht’s hundredth birthday, she was not only musical director but also sang alongside Nina Hagen, the main character. She performed with the groups 'Ars Vitalis' and 'Einstürzende Neubauten', recorded Radio features with and for ‘FM Einheit’, Andreas Ammer, Ulrike Haage und Durs Grünbein. 
Two live albums, two records with her own compositions and a Film music CD have been released so far and are being marketed worldwide. She has performed in Germany, France, Spain, Switzerland, Austria, Norway, Portugal, Hungary and Japan.

In 2005, Meret performed for 3 months in 'Die Sieben Todsünden der Kleinbürger' in France (Grenoble, Paris). With her own production 'Høllekin gen…', she toured through Germany, Portugal, Hungary and France. In 2006, Meret toured with the group Ars Vitalis and their joint production 'Harmonie Desastres' through Norway, Germany, Switzerland and Austria, and in 2007 they will tour to the USA, Canada and Australia.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Meret+Becker">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.