Merkuri’s music has been described as original and cool. Many call his voice sexy and intimate with a special singing technique. The genre is pop with strong influences from R&B and Hip-hop. Merkuri’s real name is Tobias Rörvall, born in the south of greater Stockholm. He does it all by himself from writing the lyrics to producing.

Now is the debut album finished,”Love, sex and desperation”, a fresh mix of close up lyrics, Ballads and dance music. All lyrics on the album are taken from his life. Which makes the album very personal. Most of it is written under a period of bad relationships and a longing for love. Under this time he realized he was gay. An example from the album is the song, “Bad boy” that is about being unavailable to protect yourself from getting hurt.   

When he was young he started to play piano, but it wasn’t until he started A-level, when he was 18 as his interest in music really bloomed. As a theaterstudent Merkuri discovered his singing voice and his musical talent. That was also the first time he sang before a live audience, and wrote his firs song, “Same story” which was about what he thought was unoriginal love songs that were played on the radio. Even then he had a will to create something new, that no one had heard before.

After a few various courses he went to a technical music production course on SAE, School of audio engineering, in Stockholm. Under the six months of the course he learned a lot about the work in a studio. Something that made him apply for the more musical production course on Kulturama, which also is based in Stockholm. That’s where he really came more in tune with his role as a producer and songwriter. 

From September 2007 he will be attending University of Glasgow and reading the courses “music” and “business & management. The course is for four years and after that Merkuri can work in music as well as in business industry.

Merkuri says he makes music that he thinks is missing. He wants to be innovative and make something that no one’s ever made before. The result is an album with personal lyrics, cool beats and a new independent sound.   

Said about the music

“Truly original”

”Unique sound and he knows how to deliver

Official website:
www.merkurit.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Merkuri">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.