2 or more artists using this name!!

I.  Merlyn’s master plan has been unfolding long before his friends chose his name to describe the magical ways in which he manipulated sounds both behind the turntables and in the studio. Since the early 90's when he was spinning records at house parties and clubs while producing and engineering bass records in some of Miami's hottest studios, Merlyn has always been one to share his passion for music with others. While Miami Bass, which is still a large part of his style today, was the catalyst for his entrance into the world of the DJ and Producer, Merlyn's early days in the underground club scene at the famous Edge nightclub in Fort Lauderdale helped shape the sound that he is known for today by introducing him to early Progressive House and Breakbeat. 

"Bring Your Luv”, his first record which was recorded under his old "Quest" alias, became an instant American underground classic and catapulted him into the spotlight as one of the premier up and coming Breakbeat producers in the United States, while at the same time, inviting listeners to discover his incredible talent as a DJ as well. His subsequent releases on self-owned Dreamscape Recordings (such as the piano anthem "Search" and the darker acid breaks stompers "Spellbound" and "Incantations") and collaborations like "Path to Redemption" and "Taken” (which were done with old high school friend Jasp 182 on Insomniac Records) have earned him respect as one of the innovators of a sound that can only be described as American Breaks (without the corny samples) meets Progressive House and U.K. Breakbeat.

His popularity has becoming more and more evident through fantastic record sales and the constant demand for his songs to appear on CD compilations (including mixed CD's by Babyanne, Simply Jeff, Rick West, Chris Fortier, and many more).  His never ending DJ appearances around the country at clubs and major festival events are proof of Merlyn’s emergence as a musical leader and a consistent crowd pleaser.

In addition to his constant performances around the country, sales of his mixed CDs (the Breakbeat classic mix entitled "Spellbound" and the Progressive / U.K. Breakbeat mix, "Nu Horizons Vol.1” on Streetbeat Records) are continuing to go rise, with both CDs selling in excess of 10,000 units and climbing. His newest CD entitled, “Soul Reflections”, which will hit stores early next year, is a fantastic mix of U.K. Breakbeat and Progressive Breaks combined with a solid dose of dancefloor friendly electro which will be sure to satisfy even the most jaded music listener.

Following is never something that Merlyn was good at. Leading is. Constantly evolving and honing his craft, Merlyn leads by example.  Always maintaining the perfect blend of “up to date” sounds and dancefloor sensibility, he is destined to be one of the cornerstones of American Breakbeat for a long time to come.


II.http://www.discogs.com/artist/Merlyn
Spanish metal band from Galicia.

III.
(Hard Rock, Classic Rock, Rock'n'roll, Blues) The Rocknroll Band "MERLYN" was established in February 2005 in Turkey, Istanbul by drummer Burak Günsür and guitarist Emre Bilginer. The Band had worked with lots of musicians but had to go to separate ways with some of them. After spending the 2005 summer with concerts, the band spent a year empty in the following season because of every member's personal works and needs. But the band decided to keep going with a bone staff made of 4 people by getting Yalin Isnel at Lead Vocals and Armagan Dergin at Bass guitar. From now on, the purpose of the band is to show that Rock'n'Roll isn't dead yet.MERLYN who has regular gigs on tuesday nights at Taksim Eksi Limon Bar is also planning to have more concerts, have gigs out of the city, taking part in summer festivals and sharing their own songs ,that are at the level of recording, with their audience. For more information, please visit our official web page  " www.merlynrocks.com " Thank You!  Nowadays Merlyn released their first single called "Shoot Me" ! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Merlyn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.