There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Mesh are a synthpop/ebm group, hailing from Bristol, England, UK consisting of Mark Hockings and Richard Silverthorn.  Neil Taylor was in Mesh from their conception in 1991 until 2005.  Their music is described by their official website as "somewhere between synthpop and EBM". Personally they prefer the term 'Electro rock'. 

Mesh were discovered largely as a result of Future Music releasing their first three demo songs on a compilation. Holding a large amount of distaste for major label business, the trio chose to form their own label titled Tolerance Records, which released their first EP "Fragile" in 1993.  Soon after circulation, the band signed to Memento Materia and re-released the EP.  Mesh followed "Fragile" with the album "In This Place Forever", which included the popular single "You Didn't Want Me."

1999 saw the release of "The Point At Which It Falls Apart", which the official bio cites as "certainly the best work that the band had produced to date. It is a rich and emotional album, and shows the threesome taking their music to a new level."

In 2000, Mesh signed distribution agreements with Metropolis Records in order to pursue US appeal, an arrangement which ultimately fizzled out.  In 2002 the band switched labels yet again to release "Who Watches Over Me?" on Columbia (a Sony subsidiary).

In 2006 Mesh signed to the German label Königskinder after leaving Columbia.  To date neither "Who Watches Over Me?" or "We Collide" have been released on an American label.

In April 2006, the album "We Collide" was released in Europe to generally positive reviews and good chart positions in Germany.  In 2007 the band released the DVD "The World's a Big Place", with live performances and interviews from their "We Collide" Tour.

November 3 2009 saw the release of their tenth album "A Perfect Solution" which featured a more synth gritty rock sound rather than previous ones, it spawned 2 singles, first single "Only Better" (which a promotional video was made for) followed by second single "How Long".

Two years later, the band released "An Alternative Solution" which contains all tracks remixes of their latest album by bands like Zeromancer, Assemblage 23 among others.

September 29 2012 the band announces their new album 'Automation Baby' that will be expected in february 2013. Fans can follow the production process with little 'Making of' clips on the bands Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/meshtheband/.

2) Mesh is a Dutch progressive-trance artist, real name Jack Molenschot who records for "In Trance We Trust", a sub-label of the Tiesto-owned Black Hole Recordings.

Jack Molenschot also records using the names of Freejack and Future Vibe.

3) Mesh was a Swiss postpunk band in existence from 1981 -1992.  They released one album called "Claustrophobia LP," and several tapes releases during their career.
* Stephane Vogel

4) Mesh is a New York based graffiti artist and electro, electronic dance rock band which has tracks available at http://www.last.fm/label/MESH. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mesh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.