There are several artists named Messiah.
1) Messiah was a rave techno band from the UK known for "Temple of Dreams" and "I Feel Love."
2) Messiah was a Swiss death/thrash metal band, formed in 1984.
3) Messiah is a Lithuanian hip-hop band. Ream more at MC Messiah.
4) Messiah was a death/thrash metal band from Argentina.
5) Messiah was a rapper from the 1990s.
6) Messiah was an American power/epic heavy metal band during the 80's.
7) Messiah was a punk band from New Delhi, India. Formed in late 90s, they released an album called "The Antidote" .
8) Messiah was a heavy metal band from Pakistan. They released an album in 2003.
9) Messiah was a Tucson, Arizona death/thrash metal band in the late '80s/early '90s.
10) Messiah is a dubstep DJ. The "Bad Faith" EP is free for download at www.youtube.com/themassivecrash

Messiah (UK band):
Formed in 1988 during London's acid house craze by college friends Ali Ghani and Mark Davies, Messiah's brand of rave techno encompasses the aggression and volume of punk and the diva vocals of house music. When Ghani and Davies met at an Iggy Pop concert, the two decided to purchase some electronic equipment and make music for fun; when musical chemistry became evident, they began to get into the English techno and rave scene. After the release of 1993's Temple of Dreams, their first full-length U.S. album, 21st Century Jesus, was released one year later. Messiah Meets Progenitor followed in 1998 and saw a fairly dramatic shift in style. The introduction of guitars into the mix pushed their sound more towards that of Jesus Jones, Pop Will Eat Itself or later Prodigy.

Messiah (Swiss metal band):
Messiah were a death/thrash metal band from Switzerland. The band is best remembered for their first two full-length albums, Hymn to Abramelin and Extreme Cold Weather.  Messiah's debut album, Hymn to Abramelin, was released in 1986 through Chainsaw Murder Records. Their sophomore LP, titled Extreme Cold Weather, came out in 1987 and was re-issued on CD three years later by Nuclear Blast. The release also contained the band's debut album. The band then managed to sign to a German major metal label, Noise Records, which released their next album, Choir of Horrors, in 1991. Messiah released two more albums, Rotten Perish and Underground, through Noise, but disbanded in the mid-1990's. Although the band members have since rehearsed together, they have decided not to re-unite.
But they eventually did it anyway, first to perform a few secret shows in 2017, but then decided to write new material in 2018, and released a new album in september 2020. Since 2018 also, they are back on stage and play live again. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Messiah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.