There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Message was a coldwave band from France, consisting of Didier Brutus, Jean François Saturnin, Jean-Philippe Lavallée and Olivier Balet. They have released only one single, Dernière Nuit, in 1988, and appeared on at least three compilations.

2) Message were a progressive rock band based in Germany formed by British guitarist Allan Murdoch and vocalist/woodwinds player Tommy McGuigan. Between 1972 and 1980 they recorded seven albums. McGuigan left after the fourth, Synapse. Murdoch continued to lead the band through several lineup changes and a succession of three different lead singers: David Hanselmann (on Using The Head, later with Triumvirat), Anna Haigis (on their track from the Brain Festival live album) and Sammy Kunig (on their last two albums: Astral Journeys and Miles of Smiles).

3) The history of Message is an impressive one and the band’s founder member Dean Fasano has been involved with many musicians, song-writers and singers along the way. The story first began in the early eighties when Message were playing the New Jersey circuit featuring Dean on vocals, Alec Jon Such on bass and Richie Sambora on guitar. An up and coming band called “Jon Bon Jovi and the Wild Ones” were one of the acts playing support to Message at this early time and both Alec and Richie of Message later hooked up with Jon and the rest, as they say, is history.

In the nineties Dean has continued writing and producing with many big names and has contributed to Richie Sambora’s solo record “Stranger in this Town” and more recently put backing vocals to Jon Bon Jovi’s “Destination Anywhere” album.

The original Message album was released as a self-titled CD in the mid 90’s by Long Island records, Germany together with bonus tracks. It became a best seller for the company. In addition the FEMS label in Japan put out the release under it’s original title “Lessons”.

4) Message was a Hungarian rave/dance/happy hardcore duo. Its members were Dr. László Szakács & Ágnes Vanilla. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Message">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.