There are 3 known artists under the name Metastasis :

1. A Death Metal band from UK/Gibraltar
2. A Death Metal band from Valencia, Venezuela
3. A one-man goregrind project from Toronto, Canada

------------------------

 from London/Gilbraltar are the UK's most extreme alienistic death metal and feature current members of Ted Maul, The Antichrist Imperium and former SikTh drummer Dan Foord.

Metastasis was conceived in mid-2004. Two deviants, stranded on the vertiginous rock of Gibraltar, were left with no choice but to express their fury and frustration through extreme metal music.

An embryonic Meta-stasis comprised Jason (guitarist) and Nikki (bassist of Ted Maul and The Antichrist Imperium). The band evolved when vocalist and long-time friend Solomon (of Ted Maul and previously Better off Dead with Jason) joined forces with Jason and Nikki. With Solomon permanently based in London, the rest of the band decided to migrate to the UK to search for the remaining biological samples required to complete the band. 

David, another rare Gibraltarian species and long-time friend, joined the band as sub-sonic sampler, master of the keyboard and commander of the hard drive.and Alex (guitarist of Rose West) later joined forces as second guitarist, lending a richer sound to Jason’s lead guitar. In 2009, Metastasis were joined by a long-time mate Dan on drums (formerly of SikTh) with whom they played their very first gig (supporting Aborted at the London's Underworld) and are currently working on their debut album which is due to come out later in 2010...

Official site: myspace.com/metastasis666

------------------------

Metastasis is also a Death Metal band from Valencia, Venezuela.

------------------------

Metastasis is an old-school one-man goregrind project from Toronto, Canada. Influenced by old Regurgitate, Warsore, Ulcerrhoea, Autophagia, Dysmenorrheic Hemorrhage, etc.

Official Pages:
https://facebook.com/pages/Metastasis/491321930885063
http://metastasis-gore.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metastasis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.