Meta-stasis Bio

Ted Maul and Sikth present Meta-stasis. The conception of Meta-stasis was bred in the ancient lime rock of Gibraltar. Determined to create extreme metal Jason Pincho and Nicholas Barboon (Ted Maul bassist), joined forces with Jeremy (aka Solomon from Ted Maul), With Solomon permanently based in London, the rest of the band migrated to UK soil to search for the remaining fragments required to complete the band.

Dan Foord ( Sikth drummer) joined the project as the final ingredient in the band. After numerous rehearsals a new wave of brutality was born, mixing precise mechanical extreme metal with dark industrial soundscapes a perfect mixture of Ted Mauls madness brutality and Sikth technical style. Meta-stasis is incompatible with life and have always focused in narrowing the paths of life and death.

Lyrically, Meta-stasis write about whatever grabs their interest. Having a keen curiosity about disease and pathological evolution, some songs depict the impact on potential individuals. With medical fascination, lyrical orientation brutally depicts the truth behind pathogens and their anatomical geography.

Other interests include war, terror, serial killers, psycopaths and religion that have caused impact on society as a whole.

Musically, each member has their own inspiration that is contributed to deliver a modern unique metal sound. The gruesome combination of Solomon’s Jurassic vocals together with Nicky’s abstract interpretation as bass guitarists offers a distinctive groove to the whole set-up. Jason’s violent 7 string input allows a melodically broad spectrum of low tuning. Dan Foord’s skill and performance on the album are nailed with precision executing the surgical sacrament.

Vist http://www.meta-stasis.com or http://www.facebook.com/metastasis666 for future gig or updates of the band.

The band are currently raising money to self-produce their second album with PledgeMusic

Fuck it all and spread the disease !!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/META-STASIS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.