There are multiple artists with this name:

1. Metaphor is a male tripod bringing you hyperactive zapculture rock and melodramatic soundscapes. After touring on their first album 'Climbing the Sun' Amsterdam based Metaphor is now working on their second full lenght 'The Escapist' which will be released early 2010. For demo snippets from the upcoming album and the latetst tour update check twitter.com/metaphorband. For climbing the Sun check www.myspace.com/metaphorband. Add us on facebook and get a twinky. 

2. Metaphor is a finnish Heavy/Thrash Metal band.
The band was founded in the winter of 2004. The band had four members and called them selves ‘’The Four Horsemen’’. The members were Magnus Löfroth (drums), Matias Muotio (guitar), Otto Eklund (guitar/vocals) and Emil Soininen (bass). They played Metallica covers but after some time Otto and Emil left the band for some reason, but Matias and Magnus were still playing. 

They then asked Harry Sjöberg(guitar) to join them and changed their name. The new name was ‘’Black Guardians’’. For some time the trio played mostly Metallica covers but in the end of the summer they decided to write some own music, which was the birth of the song ‘’Road to Nowhere’’ which was the first song they ever wrote. In the cold winter nights of 2005, Markus Nyholm (bass) reinforced the band, the bass really added that little something to the music which had been missing. 

In the end of the year 2005 the studio was booked, the band was recording their first demo at Test Music Studio, with Christer Rönnholm. The title is Road to Nowhere. 

They recorded their second demo in october 2006, the recorded songs were Insanity, Arapes and Cursed Souls. After some negotiations with Tomas Ståhl the band teamed up with SSG Management Ltd and changed their name to Metaphor. 

The summer of 2007 Metaphor spent most of their time in the rehearsal room playing music and drinking together. The band got offered to be a part of the compilation CD "Kill City Vol.3" with the song "Wasted Generation". The CD has now been released in the entire USA. 
http://www.myspace.com/1metaphor

3. Metaphor is also a jazz fusion group.
Blurring the lines between fusion, contemporary jazz and chamber music, Metaphor was born out of a desire to reflect the present day. Always keeping beauty and spirit at heart, Metaphor, a four-piece contemporary jazz group, has committed themselves to presenting their music with integrity and earnestness. In a world where the music media has split everything into cut and dry categories, we refuse to be confined to a certain style or genre of music. "Temporary Suspension", Metaphor's debut album, features a myriad of musical offerings including african music, hip-hop,afro-cuban, straight-ahead and rock.

Formed in the fall of 2005, Metaphor began with a very specific sound world and concept in mind: a contemporary jazz instrumentation with a focus on melody and lyricism. Rather than performing pieces that are merely vehicles for improvisation, the emphasis is on the compositions themselves. Special attention is given to every detail of the music: pacing, dynamics, contrast and narrative.
http://www.cduniverse.com/productinfo.asp?pid=7700316 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metaphor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.