Metamorphosis refers to at least four bands: A Peruvian hardcore/punk group, a Czech-Austrian avant-garde punk act, an early 80s electronic/proto-ebm project and a swiss ProgRock Band.

Metamorphosis (1) is a defunct post-hardcore/punk band formed in Lima, Peru. The band consisted of vocalist Garzo, bassist Paul, guitarist Renzo, drummer Alex, and guitarist Gonzalo. The bands roots reach back in 1996, when they began writing and performing around Lima, having good acceptance in the underground scene of this city. In 1997 the band shared scenary with bands like Asmereir, Wreck, Futuro Incierto, Decisión Final, Psicosis, Katarsis, and so on.. They stopped playing for six years. Metamorphosis also shared scenary with MXPX in 2006. However, they decided to no longer continue Metamorphosis in 2007, having their last performance in May 12. They recorded 3 albums:[] (2001), Solo en Mi (2004), Metamorphosis (2007). Garzo has a musical project called Plug-Plug. 

In 2011, they have a reunion show. This year, they have a 4-days tour playing 3 times at Lima and once at Trujillo.

Metamorphosis (2) is a project born in January 2001. Jean-Pierre Schenk, its composer, was born in 1953. He started playing the drums at the age of 19 as he was a student. Being an autodidact, he made his first concert 1 year later with a few jazz and rock musicians. His musical career really started as he founded the group Nature in 1971 with Giovanni Esposito, the guitar player on Metamorphosis. Very soon, the band became famous in the Suisse romande. Its music was deeply inspired at its beginnings by Pink Floyd, then evolved towards Genesis. As the singer left the group 2 years later, Jean-Pierre Schenk started singing and playing the drums as did Phil Collins at the time. The group made a series of memorable gigs, but unfortunately never found the manager who could have given it more than false promises. In 1978 after new changes among the musicians the group definitively split. 

Jean-Pierre Schenk worked till 1995 with many musicians, producing and playing Italian and French varieties, and played “covers” with a band called Monday Blues Band till 1998. The idea of Metamorphosis came to him as he bought a house in autumn 2000 in which he could have his own home-studio. The style of the music was obvious to him: progressive rock, as “this is the only music which can take my heart, my soul and my guts.” 

After composing and arranging all songs, which took him 8 months, he recorded the drums in another studio. Then came the vocals, which he recorded at home. He let Giovanni Espositio - who else? - play the guitars on all the titles but one. Mixing all the tracks was a hard job. David Grillon, a sound-engineer, revealed himself more than competent in giving the project its final touch. The whole project needed 20 months to be fulfilled.

Metamorphosis (3) is a punk band with the excellent musicianship of a modern classical quartet, appeared first time 1996 on the scene and found their way very fast to stages all over Europe. A new style of String Quartet using acoustic and electric instruments and soundprocessing, blending influences from contemporary music, punkrock, pop and ethnic music in a so far unheard manner. They attract the audience on avant-garde festivals, in jazz-, punk- and rockclubs as well as on stages for classical music like Knitting Factory in New York (USA), Club Dom in Moscow (Russia), the RingRing Festival in Belgrade (Serbia and Montenegro), Festival Alternativa in Prague (CZ), the festival Les Nuits Europeennes in Strasbourg (F), Festival des Musiques Innovatrices in Saint Etienne (F), Empty Bottle in Chicago (USA), the Club Worm in Rotterdam (NL) and many more. The band found their home at the British label Leo-Records (a host for artists like Sun Ra, Anthony Braxton, Art Ensemble Of Chicago...). Allaboutjazz.com published: "these folks have designed a signature style of their own" , "a magical beauty permeates this superb offering!" and "...few have attained the far-reaching realizations that this ensemble brings to the table."

Metamorphosis (4) was a short living experimental band from Nottingham, active between 1982-84. They released one LP ("Great Babel Gives Birth") , songs on few compilation ("Rising From The Red Sand", "Elephant Table Album") and then faded to obscurity .  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metamorphosis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.