Metallust is a hungarian Metallica Tribute Band.

MetallusT were formed in 1998 by Péter Balogh (vocals), György Révész (guitar), László 'Golyó' Varga (guitar) and Gábor Simon (drums).Pretty soon they had an hour-long set of Metallica cover versions down, and a month later they played live for the first time.
Bass guitarist Miklós Hortobágyi joined a few months later, and by 1999 the group were a popular feature on the Pécs scene.
The first-ever MetallusT recording was a 6-track demo called Lust For Power, recorded in 2000 with Péter Révész on bass.
Band members came and went in the meantime, until the the current line-up finally came together in 2002 with the arrival of drummer Balázs Szende and guitarist Ferenc Cselényi.
To begin with the group also included songs by Pantera and MegadetH in their live repertoire, but these were duly dropped, and MetallusT became Pécs' own MetallicA tribute band.
The decision proved a popular one, with the band members and their audience preferring the new direction.

2005 saw a hike in the number of live shows and the band's profile in the local region jumped accordingly. In 2006 MetallusT produced Time For Live, a promotional DVD recording one of their frenetic shows in Pécs. The DVD was made available online in its entirety, enabling hundreds of new fans from all over the world to get to know the group. In 2007 MetallusT entered the first-ever Hungarian tribute-band talent contest, posting good results and picking up several prizes. That year they were able to play in a variety of new venues up and down the country, thanks mainly to their participation in the Tribute To Rock tour. In 2008 the group decided to release another DVD recording one of their bigger shows - at the Rockmaraton in Pécs - where the guys were appearing for the third time in front of a 500-strong crowd of Metallica fanatics.


Their webpage: http://metallust.minicomp.hu
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metallust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.