Metha style: minimal, tech-house, breakbeat, bigbeat, microhouse stb 2002-2003 He started playing music like VJ and he took part in every party, there he met many DJ-s, and he decided that he wanted to be DJ. Moreover the music he also likes composing the vision, so he gets ready for the partys with the whole audio and video show. He has his own resident night since 2002. 2002 The name of his first party was Electronic Experiences Here he has played style of techno and break (The Prodigy, Underworld, Empirion, Orb,Leftfield etc.) 2003. He played 3 times a week, and every night he played different type of music. 2004 Spring He Started the breakbeat club 2004. Autumn.He started the breakbeat massive party series. 2005. He he played in other country,(like Berlin,Slovakia) but the central line was Budapest.He played at some big party and he mixed with General Midi,Chris Carter etc 2006. He started a public tour called Mission beat possible,and this was the first time he invited a foregin producer Jhz. They played together in Hungary and in Slovakia. Beside this he startaed a new party series which was called name Nubeatz boutique 2006-07-at now The Breakbeat massive night found the place.One of the best Hungarian underground Club..name: MONO! Every Thursday he plays and invites some guest and once a month on a Saturday he organises a Special BM party,foregin producers,or for other guess,like Circuit breaker,Fine Cut Bodies,KickFlip,JHz,AMB stb by dj * 2007-2002.Berlin,Szerdahely,VOLT, Sziget,Prodigy audio video show, Hegyalja, EFOTT ,,Szlovákia,Coke Beach, T--ztér, Hírös Underground Fesztivál, I Love Breaks Szombathel,Trentemoller dj szett + video show AAD-s estek, Antropos birth day ,Szarvas, Extra,Millenáris Chris Carter, General Midi Trafó, Dunaterasz,Chacha, Chemical Brothers audio video show, Short animation night SimonLebon (kompakt), Szarvas,Gy--r stb by VJ :* 2007-2002 every Thursday Breakbeat Massive own Vj „show”. Inside James Zabiella, Mayday, Sportsziget SAP csarnok (Adam F, Palotai, stb..), Fields Of Joy (Bad Company etc.),T--zTate, Eastern Exposure Kecel - BPM presents (Junki XL, Ez-rollers, stb.),VOLT Fesztivál (Freestylers, Andie C ), Hyperspace, Diák Sziget RadioC sátor (Tonny Lakatos, Szakcsi L.B. stb.), MEO nyitó buli, Éjszakája, Olof Palme Ház,T--zraktár stb. contact:: metha01@freemail.hu, http://www.nubeatz.net , myspace.com/methadj <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metha">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.