Metric Madness roots from January 2001, when chilhood friends and bandmates Jean-Luc Manseau (Guitar, vocals), Lorédan Girard (Bass, vocals) and Francis Thibault (Guitar, vocals) were invited by Sylvain April (Drum) for some jam sessions after his band, Objects In Mirror Are Closer Than They Appears, broke up. Soon a band called Notribu emerged with few original compositions. Later, Michel Dufour (keyboards, violin), a long time friend of the 3 guys at the strings, get involved for few shows and left to different interests. In June 2003 the band, already on more edgy will, took a more progressive way when Simon Paradis (keyboards), as 4 former members fused instantly, get involved in the band flow. Then, they became Élément, which release a 34 minutes EP called 48e parallèle, mostly in french, on december 23rd of the same year. Unsatisfied with the final result of EP, they strart right after its release to work on heavier and, even, more proggy material. Francis left soon to work on other projects and the band decided to focus on search for a lead signer while they started working on the concept that became "1.0". In late 2004, Pascal Morin (Guitar), who played in Sylvain's previous band, quickly integrate the formation. Soon in 2005, the search for a lead signer stopped at Patrick Deschênes (voice) and finally became Metric Madness. In spring 2007, more than two years of hardworking and shows later, they self-released "1.0", a 60+ minutes concept LP featuring a 13 minutes epic closure.

At 1.0 release, they had already began working on new meterial, yet, again, heavier. Patrick, busy on personal projects, quits by the end of summer 2007. Then, Marc Thériaut, who sang in a cover band featuring Pascal and Francis (Bass, there) and was already involved in some of Sylvain's side projects, gets a sucessfull trying spot for lead vocals. His vocal style fits band's new material with ferocity, and they are producing a new Demo EP for soon.

Original progressive metal, intelligent and really accessible! Welcome in Metric Madness's WORLD!


Taken from their myspace: http://www.myspace.com/metricmadness <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metric+Madness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.