Multiple artists are known as Metropolis.

1. An AOR band from Canada by Stan Meissner and Peter Fredette. They released the album "Power of the night" in 1999.

2. A short-lived progressive rock band from Berlin - 1973 initiated by Michael Duwe who has been an early member of AGITATION FREE and produced "Seven UP" with ASH RA TEMPEL. Other members to have former collaborations with wellknown bands were drummer Thomas Hildebrand (MYTHOS) and Michael Westphal (ASH RA TEMPEL).

Their eponymous debut was recorded December 1973 in Munich. Very rare as vinyl and in the early 90s also released by the Germanofon label as an unauthorized bootleg on CD. A concept album with clear musical influences because 'Mickie' Duwe also participated at the Berlin "Hair" performance. So there is a special vocal emphasis (Duwe's voice was close to Bowie) combined with a blend of several styles like Symphonic, Folk, Blues, Jazz- and Krautrock, very innovative and unique at that time.

Afterwards METROPOLIS disbanded and all musicians went to other bands or worked solo.

3. A Nu-Metal band from Nitra, Slovakia. Formed in 2002 they play hard rock / nu metal music. They combine various features from diffrent genres and do not wish to be labelled by some specific music style. The name of the group was inspired by a cult German movie Metropolis. They have already released two albums Radioactivity (2005) and Vodoo (2007). They are working on the third album. It is expected to be released in spring 2009.;

4. Hardcore band out of Aurora, Ontario. 2008-2010 http://www.myspace.com/metropolisfuckyeah

5. A progressive metal band from Belgium, their influences are drawn from different genres.
One of the members is the son of Daniel from Univers Zero . 
Listeners of prog like Riverside & Porcupine Tree will appreciate their music.
(myspace.com/metropolgroupe)

6. A four piece indie rock band who formed in Cheltenham, UK in September 2012. Members Ollie Weikert (vocals, guitar), Bradley Hutchings (guitar), Thomas Muddle (bass), and Andy Burgess (drums) met as students at the University of Gloucestershire and have been drawn to writing material covering a broad and eclectic spectrum of influences, from modern rock bands such as Weezer, through to hip hop acts such as De La Soul and Mos Def. The band kicked off what promises to be a busy 2013 by releasing their debut EP 'Where People Have Been' and playing a show in the Czech Republic.

7. An alternative rock, grunge, indie band from Ankara, Turkey; 

8. A progressive metal band from Gävle, Sweden. 

9. A vocalist for international hip hop  crew, Foreign Beggars

10. An Bulgarian electro comunity/organisation

11. One of the aliases used by The Future Sound of London, an electronic band from Manchester, England.

12. A solo recording project (and later a live band) by Ben Hardwidge in the late 1990s in the UK.

13.A barbershop quartet from the US. 

14. Avant-jazz group from Leeds associated with LIMA. http://www.myspace.com/metropolisuk

15.A Progressive metal act from the U.S with many acoustic and jazzy influences  released only one excellent album "Unsure Destination" (1994) then unfortunately disbanded some time later http://www.technodisco.net/metropolis/unsure-destination-2997459.html

16. A minimal synthpop band that released a 7" in 1982. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metropolis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.