Metus' music is devoted to the beauty of God's creation and desire for everlasting life, but also deals with the author's personal feelings and inner battle with human imperfection. Even if it's dark and melancholic at the first glance (echoes of dark wave, gothic & neoclassical sounds), you'll find much deeper meaning  while engrossed in the lyrics.  
        After years of fruitless attempts to find a label, Metus (true name Marek Juza) finally found one in his home town, Kraków (Poland), at the end of 2006. All the material for the trilogy was almost completed so it took less than one year to record and release the three first and very original albums... (first release May 2007)
        Uplifting and hopeful lyrics express the main goals of the project, floating on the waves of  delicate though sorrowful sounds. Such a contrast makes an interesting and unique atmosphere. Lyrics refer to Bible in most cases. On Metus' web site one can find a few very interesting verses which calrify the  author's idea and his deep insight into the Scriptures. His passion and desire for everlasting life is so noticeable.
        Finally, as it comes to other similar music projects it's hard to compare Metus' music to a single genre. Rather, it's a fusion of dark wave, gothic, neoclassical and metal with a strong lyrical layer and subtle influences of many other music styles (folk, rock and even grunge for example).  
        Metus was born in Cracow and spent  most of his life there. He's an amateur singer and never studied on any music academy. As he said in one interview..."all what I do with music is just fulfilling my old dreams...I don't need a school to dream and live my life..."...it's quite easy to notice some original elements in his sounds and lyrics...and also his uncompromising character.
        His graphics - made for 'Metus' project - are also worthy of attention - hand made ones with unknown technique ( he calls it  'ARSAQUALIS' ) create a specific atmosphere... an original tapestry for his sounds.
Those visual elements (graphics, paintings and photos) are an inseparable part of the  whole project ...

Metus' official site : www.metus.pl

Lyrics:   http://www.marekjuza.com/?pageid=7794

Myspace : www.myspace.com/metuspl

Discography: 
  
    'Vale of Tears'  - 2007  Digipak limited 500   copies
  
    'New Dawn'      - 2007  Digipak limited 500   copies
   
    'Deliverance'    - 2008  Digipak limited 1000 copies

     -  these're three parts of the trilogy - ' The Heritage '
    
    " Beauty " - 2009

    " Out Of Time " - 2010

    " In Memory Of My Lost Dreams " - 2011


( more info about the music and releases you'll find on www.lynxmusic.pl or www.metus.pl)

Though the whole project carries universal message, it's full of author's personal feelings, the attitude radiating with a specific sorrowful hope...
maybe 'cos of living in this Dark Vale of Tears... - our world...




























                                                                                              <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Metus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.