There are four artists using the name "Meursault":

[1] Meursault are a folk band from Edinburgh, Scotland, led by songwriter Neil Pennycook. Meursault are something of an enigma - quite apart from the fact that the band have now been called Mersault and Meuersault in the national press. Live they swing wildly between the euphoric battering delivered by the full band setup and a rather more spare, plaintive sound when Neil plays solo, or as part of a duo with whichever of the band happens to be available at the time.

They have released three albums - Pissing On Bonfires / Kissing With Tongues (2008), All Creatures Will Make Merry (2010), and Something for the Weakened (2012) - and a number of EPs including Nothing Broke (2009) - all on Song, By Toad Records. 

[2] Meursault were are an anarchist folk punk band from Kaiserslautern, Germany. Founding members Phil and Aaron played together from 2007 until 2009, when they split up. In 2010, Phil decided to continue as Meursault without Aaron. He plans to release Meursault's debut LP, entitled "l'étranger ", on Kids of Misery in Fall 2010.

[3] Meursault is a trash-metal band from Arlington, Massachusetts. Consisting of Ryan Larue and Joe Byrne (guitars), Jeremy Inzer (drums), Bobby Conroy (vocals), and Chris Coates (bass). They deliver a unique type of music for all to hear. They initially recorded two songs for a demo, released in summer 2007, which can now be heard on their myspace and now have a seven track EP due to be released later in 2010.

[4] Meursault is also the solo guise of Shaun Falconer and this first album crosses forlorn, nautical piano forms with beautifully blossoming drones and a regally stoned, devotional atmosphere that's somewhere between William Basinski, Andrew Chalk and Organum. Later he has dunk deep in the back catalogue of Keiji Haino, Loren Mazzacane, Hisato Higuchi and maybe even Christoph Heemann and William Basinski and come up with a beautifully personal take on avant guitar forms, elegiac slow-mo poetry and the sound of light-dissolved drones that glide to earth with alla the grace of a storm of cherry blossoms. (from volcanictongue.com) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Meursault">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.