Mhorgl is a Melodic Black Metal from Western Australia and have slowly evolved into a very unique mix between Raw Black Metal with a handful of Melodic interludes or verses hence making them Experimental - to that context. They have odd structures and generally create an unconventional song style with an offbeat sound yet, a Melodic atmosphere.

Originally conceived in 2004 as an extremely raw, monotone and violent Black Metal project, Mhorgl has slowly evolved becoming more epic in nature while retaining the aggression which will always be the basis of it's vision.

Mhorgl comprises of a number of musicians who have been involved in Black Metal projects in Perth, Australia over many years including Tyrant and Avantgard.

Mhorgl's first demo, "The Shadow of Morgoth", was released in March 2006 and is a available by contacting mhorgl@hotmail.com or can be downloaded from http://www.audiostreet.net/artist.aspx?artistid=41255

June, 2007 saw the release of Mhorgl's first full length recording, The Sacrificial Flame. An epic offering of traditional black metal infused with elements of doom, the Sacrificial Flame ventures beyond the realms of death and suffering to bring Mhorgl's dark and distinctive sound to the world, straight from black Gehenna. It is the ultimate Baptism of Fire.

Featuring 10 tracks and an hour long journey through passages of blasting black metal and tortured soundscapes to moments of sombre melancholy, reflection and despair. Three tracks from the release can be downloaded from http://www.audiostreet.net/artist.aspx?artistid=41255

After the release of The Sacrificial Flame, Mhorgl decided it was time to take their music into the live arena, enlisting the talents of Louis Rando on drums. Louis aka "Disaster" is well know in the Perth and Australian metal scene as the drummer/vocalist for Black/Death/War metal outfit Furor, whom he as toured with extensively Australia wide. Louis is also a member of Dubai based Death Metal band Nervecell and a regular performer on international stages.

With Louis on board Mhorgl has moved from strength to strength on the live front quickly developing and moulding their sound from a studio based project to a fully fledged live band. Stripping back their instrumentation and developing a more aggressive metal sound Mhorgl is again progressing as they seek to produce a sound and style that is truly unique to the band.

Mhorgl delivers the relentless battery and violence of Black Metal combined with unusual song structure, harmonies and explosive lead guitar.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mhorgl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.