Miasthenia was founded in the beginning of 1994, idealized by Hécate(vocal/guitar), Vlad ( bass/vocal) and Mictlantecutli (drums).
In 1995 they recorded the rehearsal-demo “encanto do sabbat”which the lyrics were sung in Portuguese. This work had the support of sound riot productions on the distribution.

In 1996 they recorded the demo "Faun - Trágica Música Noturna" in which they included the keyboards to their compositions. Hécate took place on the keyboards/vocals and the bass and Vlad the guitars and vocals. In this very time began the proposals for concerts and because of that they decided to invite Mist to take the bass.   

In 1998 they had the demo "Faun - Trágica Música Noturna" re-released through Evil Hord Recs in a split cd with a band from Rio de Janeiro Songe D'Enfer. Since 1998 the compositions started basically from the keyboard lines and lyric subject was being gradually influenced by pagan South American mythology and by the wars for the conquest of South America in the XVI century between Christians and Pagans.

In 1999 the band had changes in the line-up. Vlad left the band and Hécate took all the vocals along with the keyboards. In order to have a full line-up they invited Thormianak (former-Harppia) to play the guitars. His influence from the 80's metal school added a strong personality to the sound of the band.

From1999 to 2000 the band worked on the production of its first album "XVI" released trough Somber Music.  

In 2004 they release the álbum "Batalha Ritual” through Somber Music recorded in São Jose do Rio Preto (SP) at AREA 13 studios with Gustavo Vazquez. In this very year the band was invited to take part in a mini tour as opening act for the Belgian band Enthroned and the Brazilian band Evil war.
 
in 2005 Mictlantecutli (drums) left the band. In December a new journey starts with the new drummer Hamon (Mythological Cold Towers and Spell Forest). Since then the band follows working on the composition of the new album.

In 2006 the band returns to the stages and performs some concerts in southeast of the country. In October the same year the band took part in one of the biggest metal festivals in the country the “brutal devastation” in Belo Horizonte.  

In April 2008 the band releases its new conceptual álbum "Supremacia Ancestral" also through Somber music. Each lyric of "Supremacia Ancestral" was inspired by a South American pagan resistance movement or sect against the indoctrination in the colonial South America and based on Pre-Colombian profanations and apostasy. At the moment the band is booking concerts in the entire country. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Miasthenia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.