Former Nashville producer/session guitarist Michael Lewis...

1.  Producer/singer/songwriter, jazz/blues guitarist Michael Lewis returned to the West Coast in 2008 (originally from San Jose, California, now living in Northern Idaho, near Spokane, Washington) after a twelve year stint as a Nashville session guitarist/producer.  He performs regularly in the Northwest US as One Street Over (formerly known as the Michael Lewis Band and the Michael Lewis Acoustic Duo) with up and coming vocal star (and daughter) Bridgette Lewis.  Michael is also known as the co-founder of the Inventioning Band with Jon Anderson and Jean Luc Ponty who went on to become the Anderson-Ponty Band.  Michael has continued to release songs under the Inventioning name.

Michael has eight endorsements, credits on over 60 albums and music currently airing in over 30 countries worldwide.  He has toured internationally and has a catalog of recordings dating back to 1986.  Michael currently operates a recording studio called The Song Mill, in Hayden, Idaho where he continues his work as a producer and session musician over the internet working on independent and major label projects along with music for Film and TV. 

Michael's recordings feature Grammy award winning musicians, Brian Fullen on drums (Peter Frampton, SHeDAISY) and Chris Kent on bass (Larry Carlton, Michael McDonald -- Chris passed away Oct. 19, 2011 after his third bought with cancer.) You'll also hear bass virtuoso John Billings (Donna Summer, Wooten Brothers, Rick Springfield) on several cuts.  Michael has now added bassist Adam Nitti to the lineup of the Inventioning Band along with keyboardist Oliver Wakeman, son of famed keyboardist Rick Wakeman, formerly of the band YES.  Michael toured as a side man for Jamie Slocum (Curb Records) in the late 90's, has appeared with Mary Wilson of the Supremes, Bernadette Peters and world renowned guitarist Phil Keaggy.  Keaggy released a song with Lewis on his "Cover of Love" project (2012).  While in Nashville, Michael produced several commercials featuring Melinda Doolittle who went on to place 3rd on the 6th season of American Idol.

Michael has performed hundreds of concerts in some 40 US states, Germany, Switzerland, Norway and Mexico (2006, Michael was a featured artist for the International Guitar Festival in Zihuatanejo, Mexico). In 2007 Michael was named one of the top independent artists in the country by the Independent Artist Registry.  In Nashville, Michael performed with many acts and was the guitarist for the Radio Daze Big Band for 10 years. Michael currently performs around 75 shows a year with his band One Street Over, most of them as a duo with his daughter Bridgette. 

Michael Lewis and his daughter Bridgette have also released a number of music videos (see One Street Over and InventioningBand on YouTube.)

Michael re-released his instrumental jazz Christmas album "A Very Cool Christmas" to CDBaby in 2014.  It is slated for another iTunes release in the near future.

Michael Lewis has also developed his own line of electric guitars (MichaelLewisGuitars) and a hand full of them were made available in 2009.  The guitars were tested by Nashville session players: Brett Mason, Johnny Hiland, Tom Hemby, Phil Keaggy and their suggestions were implemented into the final versions.  Brett Mason was the first one to record with an MLG and the guitars debuted live at B.B. Kings when Michael performed as a special guest with the Stacy Mitchart Band.

Michael's personal discography includes the following:
Sing A New Song (1986) Michael Lewis (out of print)
The Call, The Cross and The Fire (1987) Michael Lewis (out of print)
River of God (1989) Michael Lewis
The Vision (1992) Michael Lewis (out of print)
Praise (1994) Michael Lewis (out of print)
Hot Wired (1997) Michael Lewis on the FirstCom Production Library
Pop-Jazz Christmas (2000) on the FirstCom Production Library
El Shaddai (2002) Michael Lewis
Discovery (2003) Michael Lewis
A Very Cool Christmas (2014) Michael Lewis
Christmas Dreams (2012) One Street Over
Snapshot (2012) One Street Over (Limited Pressing)
Walking Talking (2014) Inventioning (single featuring Jon Anderson of YES)
Onward (2016) Inventioning (single)
L.A. Boys/L.A. Girls (2018) One Street Over (single)

One Street Over has been posting on Facebook that they have new releases pending and they have set up a Patreon for support.  Inventioning has also set up a Patreon to fund the completion of projects that are in progress, including a song co-written by Jon Anderson, featuring Jean Luc Ponty called "Some People."  A clip of "Some People" can be heard on Inventioning's Reverbnation page.  Michael Lewis also has music placed on the Epitome Production Music Library.

A Second Artist, also by the name Michael Lewis:

2.  Michael Lewis was the lead singer/guitarist/songwriter for the rock band Puller (Tooth’n’Nail Records) in the mid-late 90’s. He also was the singer/guitarist/songwriter for the band For Love Not Lisa (Atlantic Records) before that.   

He released a solo album in 1999 entitled “Dig For The Light” (6x6/Platinum Records). 

A Third Artist, also by the name Michael Lewis:

3. Michael Lewis, bluesy folk singer/songwriter from Arizona -- just released the album "Crazy Old World", which is available for listening on Last.Fm. All original, bluesy/folk songs. This is his second release and first album released on line.

A Fourth Artist by the name of Michael Lewis:

4.
Mike was born in Columbus, Ohio and was exposed to the music industry as a youngster. His father, Dean Lewis who was on the air at WBNS, managed a group called the "Cannon Brothers".  One member of that group, Gene Cotton, went on to a successful writing and recording career.  In recent years, Mike has co-written with Gene on several songs.
Mike is no stranger to the spotlight. For years, his day gig, was as a T-V news reporter and anchor in Virginia and Pennsylvania.  His reporting on gangs and drugs, was recognized by Associated Press as among the best.
The newscast he co-anchor also garnered an Edward R. Murrow Award for Best Newscast. During that time, Mike was always writing. In 2003, his first 6-song c-d of original material was used by the New York TImes station he worked for in Scranton, Pa., to raise funds for the Northeast Pennsylvania Boys and Girls Clubs. Mike signed, and the t-v station sold, 10-thousand c-d's and gave the Boys and Girls Clubs a check, for 80-thousand dollars.
Mike then went on to record two more c-d's on his own.. produced by Steve Gibson in Nashville.  One Teardrop Falls, and Save the Day.. both got regional airplay.. and were well received.
His latest effort, "Do Whatcha Gotta Do"... is and upbeat collection of orginal songs..co-produced by Mike, and Kerry Marx and Martin Young in Nashville.  One song on the new c-d "Shine", was co-written with Tom Manning.
His music has been used by a weekly t-v and on-line series in Northeast Pa.. called Windsor Park Stories. Also, a documentary, Luke, Nick and Laura... used his music in the soundtrack.  It won best documentary at the Sol Film Festival.   Mike continues to write and record in Nashville and perform live.  He's opened for various artists, including the Oak Ridge Boys.  He also does solo acoustic shows.
There's also a saxophonist from Minneapolis, Minnesota name Michael Lewis

And an another artist named Michael Lewis who released an album called "The Way I Need To Be."

There's another musician by the name of Mike Lewis, trumpet player who has a Big Band that performs in Hawaii, New York and Seattle. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Michael+Lewis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.