There are multiple artists named Michael Miller.

1. Michael Miller is an American Pop/R&B singer-songwriter from Indianapolis, IN. Michael has produced songs for many Pop, R&B, and Hip-Hop acts as well as releasing solo work. At the age of 15, Michael started a music publishing / recording studio named M Productions. The studio was based out of his childhood home in Cicero, IN. As he grew his client base, he eventually opened a commercial recording studio in the Castleton area of Indianapolis. Known for his audio mixing skills, he became the go-to engineer for rappers and singers alike. 

Today, Michael still owns his music publishing company M Productions which no longer serves as  commercial recording studio. He has shifted his focus to his career as a solo artist and producer. Michael is an emerging Pop artist in the music industry and is set to release his first solo EP entitled "Identity Crisis" in 2014.


2. Michael Miller is a California based indie/folk singer/songwriter. He has released the albums "When We Come To" and "I Made You Up", as well as the "Lifeboat Into Mighty" ep. 

"Glorious post-psychedelia...
an exhilarating creative invention."
AMERICANA UK 

"Multilayered melancholic pop symphonies."
OC WEEKLY 

"Miller’s voice has an otherworldly
sweetness like that of Radiohead’s
Thom Yorke."
MILES OF MUSIC

3. Michael Miller started playing live gigs at 10 years old as a drummer. Pay was $ 5.00 per night and a sandwich. Started playing guitar at 11 and fronted first band at 15 yrs. old. The Michael Miller Blues Revue worked in studios and traveled playing live for years.

Members: Different membes for different gigs. Carlton Edwards, Murl Downey, Jim Pendley, Brandon Parker.
Genre: Christian rock and blues
Hometown: Troup, Texas

Facebook: Michael Miller Band
Amazon: Michael Miller 'Michael Miller Live'
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Michael+Miller">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.