Michael Gapys is a guitarist/composer from Poland. During his musical journey he was working with several artists all around the world and recorded couple of compilations including several different tribute albums to various artists and bands. He also works as an arranger and producer. His music collaborations including great artists like: Mistheria (Bruce Dickinson), Bobby Kimball (Toto), Uriah Duffy (Whitesnake), Earl Slick (David Bowie), Carmine Appice, Marco Mendoza (Whitesnake, Ted Nugent), Bruce Kulick (Kiss), Tommy Denander and others. Since the end of 2005 Gapys became a part of Teenage Rampage band with co-members: Chris Catena (Vitalij Kuprij), Daniel Flores (Xsavior), Janne Stark (Locomotive Breath) and Marco Fedele. Also, He is a member of a project called Edge Of Time. Together with Chris Heaven and Lucas Santana they play with great musicians like: Michael von Knorring (Malmsteen), Gerald Kloos (Empire), Mistheria, Tracy G (Dio) and others. Now they are working on debut album. Michael is composer of most of the songs and arrange all of them to make them sound WILD, HEAVY and UNIQUE...
Michael Gapys has appeared on several Tribute to Malmsteen CD's in Japan, some compilations (Perris Records Christmas CD) and on movie soundtrack ("Millennium Apocalypse").
Michael's melodic and technical playing is the mixture of two basic influences. First one is classical music (composers like Bach, Mozart) and the second is heavy energetic music in the style of Queen, Yngwie Malmsteen, Zakk Wylde, Symphony X etc.

Discography:
"MelodicRock.com Compilation V3" - MelodicRock.com
“A Millenium Tribute To Sammy Hagar” – Versailles Records
“Sounds Of The Apocalypse” – Mad Cow Records
“A Millenium Tribute To David Lee Roth” – Versailles Records
“The Glam That Stole Christmas” - Perris Records
“Served Acoustic: Tribute to Warrant” - Sharkbite Records
“Battlefield Hero” - Japan
“Endless battle” – Japan
“Battle of Immortal Beast” - Japan

OFFICIAL WEBSITE - www.gapys.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Michael+Gapys">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.