There are (at least) five female singers and two bands using the stage name 'Michelle':

1)  MICHELLE is a fresh musical collective hailing from New York City. Weaving in and out of R&B, Pop, Jazz and Indie sounds, the group of six pays homage to these genres through 70s inspired basslines, driving drum beats, plush synths and enticing vocals. Having recently celebrated their first year on the scene as an ensemble, MICHELLE is already solidifying itself as a strong current in a new wave of emerging NYC staples. MICHELLE’s unique stylings are the result of fine-tuned production and arrangements by Julian Kaufman and Charlie Kilgore, with singers Jamee Lockard, Layla Ku, Sofia D’Angelo, and Emma Lee churning out illustrative lyrics and powerful harmonics. Written and recorded in Kaufman’s bedroom over the span of two weeks, their debut album “HEATWAVE” captures a compilation of sentimental moments – snapshots of youth through a New York summer, all immediately recognizable to those who’ve lived them (and those that have wished to).  


2)  German singer Tanja Shitawey (née Hewer) (born February 15, 1972 in Villingen-Schwenningen), she represented Germany in the ESC 2001 with "Wer Liebe lebt" ("To Live for Love").
3) Michelle McManus from the UK was the UK Pop Idol winner in 2003 and is best known for "All This Time", just credited 'Michelle' on her releases.

4) Dutch singer Michelle Courtens participated at the ESC 2001, she did perform "Out on my own" to place 18.

5) Michelle Narine from Trinidad released the track "Standing Here All Alone" in 1996 in the UK. 

6) Norwegian singer Michelle Purvis did perform "Baby don't stop the music" in the Norwegian selection to ESC 2008. 

7) A four piece band from Spain that formed in 2000. They released their first full length album in 2007, titled Rock 'n' Roll Babilonia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Michelle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.