Mickey is the name of more than one artist

1) Chicago glam/powerpop/biker punk.
2) an alias of Mickey Turner
3) a Belgium disco producer
4) a J-pop singer from the 90s
5) Manchester ska-pop band from the 90's

1) Mickey is a five piece glam rock band from Chicago that started in 2008.  They've recorded two 7" singles, a cassette, 12" EP  and their debut full-length album "Rock N Roll Dreamer" came out on HoZac Records. They're currently dealing with a follow-up album.

Vocals- Mac Blackout
Lead Guitar- TC Starrchild (formerly known as Mick Swagger)
Rhythm Guitar- Dirty D
Bass- Brent
Drums- Christmas Woods  


http://www.hozacrecords.com/

http://www.fdhmusic.com/

http://www.myspace.com/iamyourtrash

2) Mickey is also the name Mickey Turner recorded under in 1974 an album of pop standards aimed at a gay audience.  Done in a Folk Pop style the songs are enchanting.  "This is Me...Mickey" is a classic album that should not be lost.

3) Mickey is also a Belgium Disco Producer, his bio on soundcloud:

At an early age Mickey already got hooked to the more interesting sounds of the 60’, 70’s and 80’s, never losing track of all the hot music that is being released today. Some 10 years ago he decided to start producing his own sounds and this soon led to his first release on Relish Records. Being charted by The Magician in his ‘Magictapes’ has helped put the spotlight on Mickey in recent years. DJ bookings over Belgium and beyond followed, highlights being gigs in New York (Nouveau York Party), Hollywood (Dim Mak Studio), China & Australia, whilst landing a Belgian residency at Libertine Supersport club in Brussels.

As a producer Mickey has fast become a force of his own. Playing all instruments himself Mickey has already done some song writing for other bands and continues to grow as a producer. After his first E.P. he surprised the world with killer remixes for Housse de Racket on Kitsune, Headman, Tyson & Beni (on Modular). Recently he released an E.P. on the influential Belgian Smile Recordings label and he is already working on a follow-up for that one. Both as a producer and as a DJ Mickey’s sound is a combination of house, pop, disco and a lot more. Mickey, a sound you need to discover!

5) A 4-piece ska-pop band from Manchester active in the early 1990's. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mickey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.