There are multiple artists with this name:

If you are looking for the mexican black metal band, please correct your tags to Midgård

1. Midgard is a Heavy Metal band from Šabac, Serbia. They've been playing since 1997. First album entitled "Slike proteklih godina" released in 2000, had positive reviews but moderate commercial success, winning them an audience award on the Gitarijada (the oldest rock/metal festival in Serbia). 
Official Myspace

2. Midgard is a blackened death metal band from Poland. They were formed in 1999 by  Krzysiek "UHRM" (git., voc.) i Piotrek "Styczu" (key.). 

The band made a couple of line-up changes and released their debut demo  "The Black Kingdom" in 1999,
their follow-up called "Journey Through Eternity" in 2000 and most recently their third demo entitled "To Bring The End" in 2002.

3. Midgard is a Black Metal band from Iran. They released one Album, called "Dawn Of Martyrdom". There are three Songs on the CD: 1. Blood Shores (Intro), 2. Karbala The Slaughtery, 3. Summoning Of The Wargod (Outro).

4. Midgard is a modern Melodic Death Metal band from Austria. They were formed in summer 2000 with Peter Fritz (Vocals), Michael Lang (Guitar), Jan Zelenka (Bassguitar, Backing Vocals) and Wildan Srkalovic´ (Drums).

5. Midgard is a Melodic Death Metal band from Colorado, USA.

6. Midgard is a progressive folk band from Portugal. They are from Torres Vedras, a city near the capital Lisbon.
Official Myspace

7. Midgard was the name of an Australian Black Metal band from Traralgon, Victoria. First formed in 1992 under the name Necromancy, Midgard released one self-titled demo in 1994 before changing their name to Utgard-Loki, and then later, Vahrzaw.

8. Midgard  is a doom metal band from Brazil.

Bandcamp

9. Midgard was a Heavy Metal band from Colombia. They changed their name to Hierro, in 2010.

Metal Archives

10. Midgard was a Epic Heavy Metal band from Kiel, Germany. They changed their name to Inner Axis in 2008.

Band info

11. Midgard was a black metal band from Grimmen, Germany.

Band Info

12. Midgard is a black metal band from Italy.

Band Info

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Midgard">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.