Midland is an American country music group consisting of Mark Wystrach (lead vocals), Cameron Duddy (bass guitar, background vocals), and Jess Carson (lead guitar, background vocals). Its debut single, "Drinkin' Problem", reached the top ten of Billboard's Country Airplay, and topped the Mediabase 24/7 chart.

The band was founded in Dripping Springs (Hays County), Texas and named after the Dwight Yoakam song "Fair to Midland". Before the band's foundation, lead singer Mark Wystrach was an actor and underwear model, while bass player Cameron Duddy worked as a music video director, and won an MTV Video Music Award for directing the video for "Locked Out of Heaven" by Bruno Mars. The third member of the group is lead guitarist Jess Carson. The band members met at a wedding in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Billboard describes the band's sound as "a definite George Strait '80s New Traditionalist feel to it, combined with the rich California harmonies that made The Eagles legendary."

Later the trio signed to Big Machine Records and released a five-song extended play. It features the debut single "Drinkin' Problem", which has charted on Hot Country Songs and Country Airplay. The band wrote the song with Shane McAnally and Josh Osborne, the former of whom also produced it, and Duddy directed the song's music video.

Launching in 2017 with rave reviews, On The Rocks was declared "the year's best Country album" by Washington Post. Their 2x platinum-certified, chart-topping debut "Drinkin' Problem," which offers an intentional nod to country music reminiscent of the 1970s and 80s, earned the band their first GRAMMY® Awards nominations for Best Country Song and Best Country Duo/Group Performance. Midland was also named New Vocal Group of the Year at the 2018 ACM Awards and was nominated for Vocal Group of the Year at the 2020 CMA Awards. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Midland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.