MIDNIGHT VICE (aka MIDNITE VICE) was formed in 1983 by Rick Hart, Rob Furland & Sandy Hyde. A first demo recorded at Ocean Sound was made that year followed by two other demos including the track called 'Shanghai Battlecry' which was recorded at Grapevine Studios for the 'Metal Massacre 5 Compilation LP' but was cut at the last moment. In the spring of 1984 a collection of 11 tracks, known as the 'Vice 'n' Virtue' demo, was recorded and widely circulated within the underground heavy metal tape trading and magazine communities. 

A few live appearances followed including a memorable night at The Cambie Hotel in Vancouver and a headlining show in the bands hometown of Richmond. In late 1984, along with new vocalist Steve Jack (later a member of legendary producer Bob Rock’s band 'Rockhead’), three tracks were recorded at Studio 12 including a reworked older track entitled 'Vice Squad'. This track was later remixed by Jeff Ulmer (of the band 'Sacred Blade') and included on the 1985 New Renaissance Records/SPV LP release entitled 'SPEED METAL HELL VOL.1'. 

The start of 1985 saw the band go through various line-up changes until the remaining members finally disbanded later that same year. Former bassist Rod Bruno has been playing with local Vancouver artist ‘Matthew Good’ and drummer Sandy Hyde is a member of the punk/pop band the ‘McRackins’. 

In 2008 Midnight Vice was reformed by guitarist Rob Furland along with original bassist/guitarist Rick Hart. The new line-up, which includes longtime friend of the band Kelso on drums, immediately began writing and recording tracks for their new CD ‘Evidence’. These ten tracks were recorded over a 2 year period and each have a character of their own. While reminiscent of the bands older material, they have a more melodic vocal style owing to the contribution of another longtime friend, Cook on lead vocals.

The first single 'Plainclothes Cameo' was released back on Feb.17, 2009 and has received airplay around the world. The 'EVIDENCE' CD was released October 31, 2010. 

The coming year will see Midnight Vice, along with new bassist Jamie Poulos, performing live and recording several brand new songs to be released later in 2011. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Midnight+Vice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.