Midnight Bullet have been around since 2009. The founding members singer/songwriter/guitarist Tuomas Lahti and the drummer Mikko Nokelainen still lead the band. The first album ”Faraday Cage” (2012) featured songs in the vein of Metallica, Motörhead and Avenged Sevenfold. The album includes the fan favourite track ”Trough the Iron” wich is still played at the end of every Midnight Bullet show. The album was produced by Tuomas and Tipi Nokelainen who also handled bass duties at the time. Tipi is currently the bassplayer and singer for the Finnish metalcore group in As I May. The Faraday Cage album can now be seen more as Tuomas’s solo project as all the songs were solely written by him. Lauri Ikonen was called in to play lead guitars for the songs. He’s still in the band today.

The next album ”Lose My Face” (2015) was more of a jointed effort and included more ideas from the band in the songwriting. Some new elements were introduced and the songs had more variation. Album featured hard hitters as the title track, and the frantic ”Memories Are Gone”, but also included the beautiful ballad ”Hope”. After ”Lose My Face” was released Tipi left the band and Mirko Miettinen was invited to play bass for the live shows. Mirko is also a experienced drummer and has a degree in sound and visual studies, wich has really helped the band both musically and visually in terms of video making and editing. Mirko is with the band still and with Mikko they now form a rythm section that is a force to be roconned with!

In 2019 it was time for a new album. ”Into the Fire” was the most varied work the band had ever put out. It featured Motörhead inspired opening track ”Ain’t Dead Yet”, pummeling title track, 70’s sounding ”Quiet Whisper” and two hauntingly beautiful songs ”Leavings” and ”Morning Star”. The album introduced also some catchy pop choruses in songs like ”Second Chances” and ”Break Me First”. Altough the band was very proud and satisfied as how the album turned out, Tuomas already had a vision for the fourth album. He wanted it to become the most aggressive and heavy record in Midnight Bullet’s discography…

In late 2021 that fourth album is finally ready. For two years Tuomas wrote songs that became the ”Hostile Resistance” album. Now Midnight Bullet are more focused and hungry than ever. Though some skatepunk and pop elements have been dropped for this album in favor of more aggressive sound, the band has still been able to bring new flavours to the table. The album features heavy riffs, double bassdrums and screaming vocals, but still manages to remain catchy and even fun at times! The first two single releases gave a promise what to expect. Title track grooves in the vein of good old Pantera while ”Angel of Babylon” speeds it’s way through and brings more evil sound previously unheard on a Midnight Bullet song to the table. The single ”Rain on Me” is a monster of a song with a chorus to die for. Singles ”Rise and Fall” and ”Enemy Number One” also shows a new and unsuspected side of the band still. Stay tuned!

Tuomas Lahti - vocals, rhythm guitar
Mikko Nokelainen - drums
Lauri Ikonen - lead guitar
Mirko Miettinen - bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Midnight+Bullet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.