Before they became the name MIDNITE SKY, they we're already known under the name ZARDOZ.


In 1990 the German band ZARDOZ is formed. They play melodic hard rock and over the years develop their own style. Their music can be described as a mix of groovy rhythms, powerful riffs and catchy melodies. Once you've heard it, you won't get it out of your head again. Up to this point the guys focus on live-gigs, supporting bands like BONFIRE and DOMAIN, for example. At the 2001 Backnang Newcomer Festival they take the audience of over 4000 people by storm. The album "Broken Mirror" is also released in 2001. Almost everything changes from then on. The critics of the relevant rock magazines are excited and the band reaches high scores in Europe as well as overseas.

Subsequently, the band gets the attention of TTS MEDIA MUSIC who offer them a deal. 
The film company 20th Century Fox prohibits them from continuing to use their name ZARDOZ, which is the title of a 70s movie.

2003: ZARDOZ become MIDNITE SKY
MIDNITE SKY spend 4 weeks in the studio recording their new album "ROCK THE PLANET". The result: a CD with 11 powerful tracks, bursting with energy, that you will not take out of your CD-player ever again. Whilst staying true to the style their fans know from "Broken Mirror", the band manages to further develop and refine their music
2004: The CD ROCK THE PLANET is released on April 19th.
The worldwide reviewers aggreed with this CD: MIDNITE SKY play powerful, straight Melodic Hardrock of the 80s with catchy Vocals and great Hooklines, as it is hard to find today.
During the course of the year the band was on one stage together with bands like GOTTHARD, PRIMAL FEAR, KINGDOM COME and TNT.

2006: Festivals and preparations for a new CD
2006 the band played many concerts, the highlight was the Rock of Ages festival in Seebronn together with Saga, Ufo, Uriah Heep and Sweet.
Furthermore they supported Bonfire on their Double X Anniversary Tour and the band works on new songs for a new MIDNITE SKY album.

MIDNITE SKY's motto: ROCK THE PLANET ! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Midnite+Sky">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.