There are 5 known bands with the name Midwinter:

1.) British 70s psychedelic-folk-rock band. They are precursors of folk-rock band STONE ANGEL, almost formed by accident when, in 1972, guitarists Paul Corrick and Ken Saul got together to rehearse a gig for a Great Yarmouth folk club Christmas party. They asked singer Jill Child to join in and the three soon became a close-knit formation with a mutual love for all things folk. They performed at clubs and festivals for a couple of years and by 1973, had accumulated enough material to record a demo tape. After a while, however, Gill decided to quit and the band broke up following a farewell concert in 1974. Guitarists Corrick and Saul then went on to form STONE ANGEL alongwith a couple of guest musicians who had participated in the demo, namely percussionist Mick Burroughers and bassist Dick Cadbury. Twenty years later, guitarist Saul was rummaging in his attic and chanced upon the master tapes of MIDWINTER's old demo; with the preserved material, the band's only album was released for the first time in 1993 by English label Kissing Spell.

Titled "The Waters of Sweet Sorrow", the CD is made up of fragile, dreamy folk full of mystical wonder with an emphasis on the ethereal vocals of Gill Child. It features an assortment of electric and particularly acoustic instruments such as Jews harp, recorder, autoharp, dulcimer, banjo, acoustic guitar and violin among others. There are no drums, so the sound is soft and gentle, and the asmosphere truly rustic; it is so redolent of 'old England past' that someone once said it sounded as if the album had been done in 1650. Overall, it features some nice early 70's, hippy-ish psych folk in the tradition of Trees, Mellow Candle, early Clannad and The Pentangle.

2). Midwinter is a French female-fronted symphonic metal band created in 2000. The band formed by Manu Chauty, Pierre Chauty, Pierre Garcia, Joackim Menard, Mylène Genoux
Official website http://midwinter.free.fr/

3). Midwinter is a Chinese Melodic Black Metal band - formed in 2005. They have released one fairly well-known album in the Chinese Black Metal scene entitled "Enthrone in Blizzard". It was released in December of 2006. The band themselves decided to keep the album very restricted from the audience and have only limited the copies to a 200 and only reserved in China thus, making it unobtainable to general metalheads. Enthrone the Blizzard was released on Pest Productions and have remained apart of that label virtually since their debut. Midwinter takes their influences from various Black Metal artists ranging from the Satanic Norwegian styles to Pagan Black Metal. The outcome lyrically, is to render all of these ideologies into one interest  pertaining to Black Metal. http://www.pest666.com/artists/pest-midwinter.php

4).] Next band sharing this name is a German black metal band. Official website: http://www.midwinteronline.de

5). A fifth band sharing the name is an Australian alternative rock band 
http://www.midwinterband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Midwinter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.