There are multiple artists using this name:

1. MIKE (born Michael Jordan Bonema on October 13th, 1998) is a rapper originally from New Jersey but currently based out of New York City. He usually drops his projects on June 21st each year.

2. MIKE is a punk rock band from Stockholm, Sweden.

MIKE started in January 2006 by Joel, Fredrik, Viktor and Jesper. The four guys from the southern part of Stockholm/Sweden had all played in different bands for years. Back in 1996 Viktor started a band called No Division with a friend. Jesper joined the band in 2000 (then called Pronoid), where they both played for five years. Joel played in the band Dechas, who released an EP on DayGlo Records in 2000 and an album on Shutdown Records in Australia in 2002. Fredrik had been playing in the band In Memory Of Me and in different bands before that. Jesper and Joel played together from time to time for a while and they both love punk rock, and when Jesper quit Pronoid they started talking about playing punk together. They talked to their old friends Viktor and Fredrik and started jamming some of Jespers songs and the result is what today is known as the band MIKE. After about a year our good friend Fredrik decided to quit the band to play with a reggae band from Uppsala. We then tried out two drummers but decided to pick one of Joel's old friends, Totte. He'd earlier been the drummer in bands like Milk bar, Devoured, Songea and Simpleton. Experience and routine was a fact. He'd actually only been in the band for about a week when he performed his first show with MIKE, and a week after that we went into the studio to record a couple of songs. 

3.  "mike" is an electro artist from Utrecht, Holland.
He has released one full album so far called "GALAXY" which was released in 2009, followed by the release of the SCARS single in 2010. mike then began to prepare a new album but that didn't go too well since school and a lot of personal and private issues came into the way. The album will soon be finished, sources say. 

4. Mike is an Indonesian Idol season 2 Winner.

5. Mike is a greek pop-dance singer, known for his collaboration with the popular band REC with the song "Ase me na s'agapo"/"Say you love me tonight". Hi debut single is called "Love me like you say". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mike">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.