Michael Francis Seander (born October 30, 1988), known professionally as "mike." (formerly Mike Stud), is an American hip-hop recording artist. His first musical recognition came with the release of his viral single "College Humor", which he recorded on GarageBand ironically while he was a relief pitcher at Duke University.

While recovering from surgery, Stud turned to music to pass the time.

In December 2010, Stud released a music video for "College Humor". Stud stated that he originally made the track as a joke for his baseball teammates. Since its release, the video has been viewed over 2.5 million times (as of April 2021). In March, Stud followed up his hit with "In This Life", which featured West Coast rapper Alex Lagemann.

All three hits were featured on Stud's first mixtape—"A Toast to Tommy"—which he released in October 2011. In August, Stud released another mixtape, Click, as a collaboration with fellow hip-hop artist Huey Mack.

On May 13, 2013, Stud released his debut studio album "Relief".

On July 7, 2014, he released his second album "Closer".

On October 30, 2015, he released an 8-track mini-album "This Isn't the Album", a mix of previously released singles and new tracks.

On January 12, 2016, Stud released his third studio album "These Days", which includes a feature from New York Mets pitcher and former Duke teammate, Marcus Stroman.

Mike most recently starred in a TV show on the Esquire Network called This Is Mike Stud. The show follows him and his crew around on his most recent Back2YouTour. The show premiered Tuesday, June 21, 2016.

In 2017, Stud was featured on "To the Grave" by American singer-songwriter Bea Miller, which is included on her EP "Chapter Three: Yellow" and her second studio album "Aurora".

On November 12, 2018, Stud released his fourth album, 4TheHomies, which included 23 songs and features from Vory and Goody Grace. The album is very special to Stud, as the pinned tweet reads, "Hey guys. I released a new project last night. 23 songs that are basically the last 2 years of my life in music form. I made every song in my house. this shit couldn't be more me. I hope u guys have as much fun listening as we did making it."

In 2018, Stud began his Final Mike Stud Tour, leading many fans to believe it was his last tour ever. He clarified this saying changing his stage name to "Mike" after the tour concluded.[14] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mike.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.