In the ever-evolving world of urban music, only once in a blue moon does an artist come along with that certain star power to stand out above the rest. Only a small handful of entertainers like the king of pop Michael Jackson, R. Kelly and the self-proclaimed greatest rapper alive, Jay-Z, have been blessed with the ability to change with the times while remaining relevant.   

Unlike any other artist out today, Florida’s newest musical sensation Mike Gomes is such an artist. With a hybrid style that merges Pop, R&B, Rock and Indie, Mike’s limitless pool of talent is evident by the recent YouTube.com video of his sweltering forthcoming debut single “Dreams Come True.” 

“My style of music is street classy with many variations that appeal to all ages,” explains Mike. “The sound is a little bit of pop mixed with some retro and indie. You may hear anything from violins and trumpets to hard synths and 808s. I’m always changing my style because I love many genres of music.”

Born in Providence, R.I. and relocating to the Sunshine State with his family when he was just four, Mike was raised in a household filled with music. His dad played piano and frequently jammed to the golden oldies; his father’s favorite group was the Beatles.

“My dad used to play a lot of the Beatles’ songs and I think that is why nowadays I am so inspired from them,” Mike admits, “because I got to really enjoy them and realized just how talented they really are.”

Although he always loved the sound of music, Mike didn’t realize just how talented he was until he was about 15, when his parents bought him his first acoustic guitar. Initially, Mike started out slowly. He plucked the strings for hours trying to get a hang of it. But once he mastered the instrument, he began writing original songs. He even re-made his own renditions of popular songs of the day and posted the videos on YouTube.com. 

“It’s something special to watch the videos today and look how far I’ve come,” he admits. “That gives me inspiration to keep moving on, just knowing that I’ve progressed so much I will only keep getting better.”

At that time, all of Mike’s music had been either produced on a acoustic guitar or piano. That was until one day when a friend told him that he knew how to program beats on FrootyLoops computer program. They put their creative energies together and constructed a beat within two short hours. They recorded the chorus, a couple of verses and created Mike’s first song “How We Fly.”

“I am a triple threat,” Mike boasts. “Not only do I sing, write and compose all of my music but I can hop on a song of mostly any genre and make it exciting. My music puts listeners in an energetic funk, where they find themselves not only singing the words but dancing along too.”

That is exactly what his music has been doing since Mike starting releasing videos on Youtube.com. And he is sure to keep the fans duly satisfied with a string of hot mixtapes and singles set to start releasing in early 2012.

“I’m young, fresh, good looking, outgoing and have a hell of a voice,” Mike Gomes contends. “My aim is to reach out and touch each and every fan that I have now or will have in the future. It’s all about giving the people what they want. And I have a lot to give.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mike+Gomes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.