1. Michael Edward Love (born March 15, 1941) is a founding member, singer/songwriter and lead singer of the Beach Boys. He is a founding member of the band along with his cousins Brian Wilson, Carl Wilson, and Dennis Wilson, and their friend Al Jardine, and continues to perform with the band to the present day. He has appeared on every Beach Boys album, writing mainly with Brian, but sometimes Dennis, Al, or producer Terry Melcher.

In the mid 1970s, he recorded and released two albums with side band Celebration (members included jazz musician Charles Lloyd, Ron Altback of King Harvest and Wells Kelly of Orleans) including the top 30 hit single "Almost Summer" co-written with Brian Wilson and Al Jardine. In the late 1970s, he also recorded two unreleased solo albums, First Love and Country Love. Some tracks from these sessions were used on later Beach Boys releases (such as Sumahama from L.A. (Light Album) and Daybreak Over the Ocean from That's Why God Made the Radio). In 1981, he released a solo album, Looking Back with Love featuring a cover of Be My Baby produced by Brian Wilson.

In 1988, the Beach Boys had a US number-one hit with Kokomo, the only number-one song the band had without Brian Wilson's involvement. Kokomo was nominated for a Golden Globe Award (1988) in the Original Song category, and was nominated for a Grammy Award.

After the death of Carl Wilson, the band fragmented, and Love continued to tour as The Beach Boys, along with Bruce Johnston and a supporting band of new musicians. Love was the only original member in the band lineup until the 50th Anniversary Reunion in 2012.

2. Mike Love is an American reggae musician and singer from Hawai'i. His 2014 record, Jah Will Never Leave I Alone, reached #3 on Billboard's Reggae chart. He self-describes his style as "revolutionary consciousness music".

Born in O'ahu, he grew up in Kalama Valley and attended Henry J. Kaiser High School. He released his debut album The Change I'm Seeking in 2012, followed by Jah Will Never Leave I Alone in 2014, Love Will Find A Way in 2015, and the Love Overflowing EP a year later.

Mike Love opened for Xavier Rudd's Boulder, Colorado concert in 2015, singing together during the end of the show. Love attributes some of his success to his YouTube rendition of "Permanent Holiday", which has more than 20 million views as of 2019. The song's lyrics turn what seem to be a "random assortment of syllables...into a song over a period of three minutes", according to Colossal.

Love has toured in the Philippines (headlining the Malasimbo music festival), New Zealand, and Costa Rica, among other locations internationally. In the US he has played at the Rise Up Music Festival in 2019, the Rhode Island Reggae Festival in 2019, Bhakti Fest in 2019, Think Bank Down By the Riverside in 2019, and was slated to perform at the California Roots Music and Arts Festival until its cancellation due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Love has collaborated with Clinton Fearon on his album History Say. He participates in Playing for Change.

He currently plays with his band, Mike Love and the Full Circle, consisting of Sam Gonsalves, John Hawes, Keith Tsukamaki, Reggie Padilla, and Arthur Davis. In addition to touring, the band does a weekly gig at Hawaiian Brian's on O'ahu. All of Love's albums are released independently on his own label, Love Not War Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mike+Love">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.