MIKHAIL is a symphonic progressive metal band from Maryland, USA. Originally formed in 2004 as a solo project for Mijail Salazar. The project would later become a full band in 2006. The first concert was played in 2008 and would follow many performances. (One of which saw the band open for Stratovarius and Pagans Mind.)
The band went through multiple line up changes but would release their debut album, Ich Hatte Viel Bekümmernis on December 19th of 2013. Mijail on Vocals / Drums / Keyboards / Guitars, Emmanuel on Guitar and Jhovany on Bass Guitar. 
Being shortlived a new line up would develop and form from 2015 to 2018 with Ludwig on Guitar, Timothy on Keyboards, Ari on Drums and Emmanuel on Bass Guitar. 
The band was working on a follow up to their debut album but decided to release an E.P. in the meantime.

In November 22nd, 2018 
MIKHAIL self released, The Abolishment of Creation.
The bands most aggressive material to date. 
Part of what makes this band stand out is that they have no problem in changing genres with each or within each song. 









Mikhail Karikis is a Greek-born London-based musician and sound-artist. After studying music in his native country, he moved to London to train in architecture with influential avant-garde architectural team ‘Archigram’ at the Bartlett School of Architecture. He later studied art the Slade School. Mikhail's work is equally embraced by the concert hall, the club scene, the art gallery and the world of design. The first international release of his music was by pop-star Björk (Army of Me, 2005) which was followed by his solo music album Orphica on Sub Rosa records to critical acclaim in 2007 and smaller releases on experimental music compilations on various other labels. Coined by critics a 'sound alchemist' (Le Monde) and a 'primitive futurist' (French National Radio), on his debut album Orphica, Mikhail fused contemporary electronica with environmental recordings and a neo-baroque aesthetic marked by a distinctive vocal style which he calls ‘voice sculpture’. His music has been described as experimental pop, electronica and folktronica and has been compared to the work of Laurie Anderson, Matmos, Kate Bush, Scott Walker, Harold Budd and Martyn Bates.

Orphica music has been received with much enthusiasm by international music press, while music videos from his album have been shown in festivals at BAFTA cinema and the British Film Institute alongside experimental work by Peter Greenaway, Trevor Jackson and Semiconductor. Orphica was selected by fashion house PRADA for their worldwide advertising campaign in 2008; it was remixed by DJ Spooky on his album and book (on MIT Press, 2008) Sound Unbound alongside 20th-century artists Kurt Schwitters, Carsten Nicolai, Ryoji Ikeda, Liam Gillick, Terry Riley, Aphex Twin, Steve Reich and others; a contemporary ballet by the Nederlands Dans Theater and choreographer Maurice Causey was also based on Mikhail's Orphica in May 2008. 

Mikhail has collaborated with members from the celebrated early vocal music groups Hilliard Ensemble, The Sixteen and Alamire, designers Marloes ten Bhömer, Rozalb de Mura, visual artists Sonia Boyce, Uriel Orlow, Oreet Ashery, Zineb Sedira and others. His work has been shown at Tate Modern, Whitechapel Gallery, the BFI, Queen Elizabeth Hall, Whitstable Biennale, Milton Keynes Gallery, De La Warr Pavilion, Model Arts Gallery (Ireland), Musée des Beaux Arts de Nîmes, the Wapping Project, Blancpain Art Contemporain and elsewhere.

MORPHICA (Sub Rosa records, 2009) is Mikhail's second album released as triple-album boxset - an innovative project  with over 30 collaborators, from choirs to DJs, experimental musicians,  poets and visual artists.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mikhail">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.