Milburn were a four-piece outfit from the city of Sheffield, Yorkshire, England.

The band consisted of Joe Carnall (lead vocals/bass), Louis Carnall (vocals/rhythm guitar), Tom Rowley (lead guitar) and Joe Green (drummer). They produced ear-grabbing riffs and essential Melodies, underpinned by the raw tones of the mod-punk era, which epitomises the youthfulness and abundant potential of the band. Milburn's sound has most recently been described as the aggressive riffs of the Jam, with a touch of ska mixed with the hooks and sound of modern contemporaries such as the Libertines and Razorlight.

The first vibrations of a buzz surfaced well back in 2002 when Milburn twice sold out the Boardwalk, a local venue respected nationwide, playing to a 350 capacity each time. 2002 also saw the band showcase for a band development programme at Sheffield's Red Tape Studio's. They were chosen to enter the programme from a selection of around 70 local acts and gathered essential recording and performance experience over that period. They went on to play successful gigs at the famous Cavern Club venue in Liverpool, The Garage in London and the Leadmill, Sheffield supporting Laika Dog (new band of Tony Wright (ex Terrorvision) and Cosmic Rough Riders.

July 2003 saw the recording and distribution of a demo which coincided with Milburn's biggest gig at the time; Over 600 people at the Nelson Mandela building at Sheffield Hallam, followed by a further appearance at The Music Box in Manchester. After a further sell out late 2003 at the boardwalk, the band were invited to perform as part of a youth development at In The City. 

The band have used their gigging time to develop their performance and most importantly, their music and are not developing that essential sound. Their next demo, Lipstick Lickin', was regarded as their finest to date gaining rave reviews and earning radio time on Zane Lowe's show on Radio 1.

Milburn released their second album These Are The Facts on 24 September 2007 whilst releasing the first single from this album "What Will You Do (When the Money Goes)?" beforehand on 17 September.

Milburn promoted this new album with a UK tour running from 13 September to 28 September ending with a hugely anticipated home-coming gig at The Leadmill in Sheffield on the last night of the tour which sold out in just 3 days.

The latest gigs that Milburn played were at the Sheffield Octagon on 29 November 2007, which they headlined, and the Doncaster Dome on 30 November 2007 where they supported The Pigeon Detectives.

Milburn announced on 28th March 2008 that they have decided to call it a day with the band, however 'there’s been no malice or falling out between us and we still remain friends and supporters of each other as we move on and explore new musical horizons.'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Milburn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.