In the summer of 2007 five young metal fans decided to start a band. MILES TO PERDITION was born and immediatly they practiced vigorously with a clear goal: to share and mix all their influences and diverse musical tastes into one heavy yet accessible sound. After mixing all their influences the band created its own sound, which is mainly influenced by bands like: The Black Dahlia Murder, At The Gates, All Shall Perish, August Burns Red …...

In January 2008 the band finished a 4 song demo, which was made available exclusively on their MySpace page and was distributed on their live shows.
Since their first performance on February 2008, MILES TO PERDITION was very productive and performed over 70 shows inside and outside Luxembourg and shared the stage with many local bands as well as international acts like, Sepultura, The Black Dahlia Murder, Hatesphere, The Dillinger Escape Plan, The Psyke Project, Shape by Fate, War from a Harlots Mouth , Time Has Come, See You Next Tuesday, Trigger the Bloodshed, Sylosis …...

In august 2009 a set of changes took place for MTP with their new band members: Marc Strauss on Guitar, Pascal Benci on Drums. As the band was now finally complete with its new members, it was then that they were able to accomplish an original, brutal ,heavy and catchy sound for themselves and do the touring they wanted to.

Finally, 2010 with our new lineup, our band has left behind countless devastated clubs, thrashed stages and sweaty metal heads. Needless to say that this band is an unstoppable Death Metal hurricane rushing through Europe, leaving nothing but wasteland. MTP proves that by having had the opportunity of playing shows with bands like ARCH ENEMY (SWE), Between The Buried And Me (US), Samael (CH) & Crimson Falls (BE). In the hot summer of 2010, MTP ultimately recorded the expected 7 Track debut EP '' VENGEANCE '', which is inevitably, about to destroy anything and everything that comes on their path.
All songs were recorded, mixed and mastered in August 2010 by Sven Janssens ( Ex Aborted ) from Red Left Hand Recording Studio in Antwerpen (Belgium), and will be released on 23 October 2010 in the Kulturfabrik (Esch/Alzette).

So make sure to attend MTP's blistering and highly energetic live show when they hit your city. This is a band which is true to their music and honest in their delivery. They refuse to be ignored and will continue to bring their crushing metal to show after show until metal heads have experienced the manic intensity that is MILES TO PERDITION.

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/milestoperdition#ixzz11ewFjuED
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Miles+To+Perdition">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.