“Easily the best-unsigned band in the U.S.” (Harder Beat Magazine, Dallas, TX). On their self-titled debut, Miles Beyond struck gold with their brand of classic NWOBHM/Power Metal. Their sound combines soaring vocals with a high-energy onslaught of epic dual-guitar harmonies backed up by a thunderous rhythm section. They continue to mine that vein on their newest release, Discovery.
 
“What else can I say? This 3 song masterpiece entitled “Discovery” sounds so damn good” (Metal to Infinity) Miles Beyond’s latest EP is receiving excellent reviews from all across the world; Belgium’s Metal to Infinity gave the disc a 94/100 while in the U.S. The Metal Madman gave it a 9/10 rating! The three songs cover a wide range of sounds within the metal genre; from the infectious chorus’ of Discovery, to the atmospheric My Able Axe, to the nearly nine minute epic Thusla Doom (Fangs of the Serpent). Lyrically, Discovery asks the question is it too late for mankind or can we rise up together and overcome adversity.

“Miles Beyond represent exactly what Rock and Roll is supposed to be…fun” (The Hairball John Show). With their extraordinary musicianship, infectious energy, and eye-catching showmanship, Miles Beyond’s live show never fails to impress. Their performances have received the following rave reviews:

“As great as they were on their self-titled disc, they brought more emotion and presence in their live set. That night, they easily stole the show” – The Metal Madman

At Rocklahoma 2009, “Miles Beyond blew away some of the main stage acts” – Andy Laudano, Harder Beat Magazine

Miles Beyond “came, saw and conquered - wow, what a gig!” - Bruder Cle of Rock Hard Magazine

Miles Beyond has played in the U.S. and Europe with some of the biggest names in the power metal genre such as Blind Guardian, Saxon, Gamma Ray, Iced Earth, Edguy, Sonata Arctica and Kamelot.  Miles Beyond has also performed alongside other major international acts including Twisted Sister, Night Ranger, Trivium, Vince Neil of Mötley Crüe, Anvil, Ratt, Warrant, Skid Row, Great White, Powerman 5000, W.A.S.P., Danzig, Metal Church and Anthrax. 

Miles Beyond “dish out their Heavy Metal the way that Heavy Metal is meant to be played - high-energy, focused, and classy.” (Harvest Moon Music) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Miles+Beyond">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.