Miley Ray Cyrus (born Destiny Hope Cyrus) is an American singer, songwriter and actress. Known for her distinctive raspy voice, her music incorporates elements of varied styles and genres, including pop, country pop, hip hop, experimental and rock. She has attained the most US Billboard 200 top-five albums in the 21st century by a female artist, with a total of thirteen entries.

Cyrus, a daughter of country music singer Billy Ray Cyrus, emerged as a teen idol while portraying the title character of the Disney Channel television series Hannah Montana (2006–2011). As Hannah Montana, she attained two number-one and three top-five soundtracks on the US Billboard 200, including the US Billboard Hot 100 top-ten single "He Could Be the One". Cyrus' own discography includes the US number-one albums Meet Miley Cyrus, Breakout and Bangerz; the top-five releases Can't Be Tamed, Younger Now, Plastic Hearts and Miley Cyrus & Her Dead Petz. Cyrus' EPs The Time of Our Lives and She Is Coming also debuted in the top-five. Plastic Hearts became Cyrus' most acclaimed record, and her first entry on the Billboard Rock Chart, debuting atop the chart. It included the lead single "Midnight Sky". Her other singles include the US top ten-charting "See You Again", "7 Things", "The Climb", "Party in the U.S.A.", "Can't Be Tamed", "We Can't Stop", "Malibu", "Without You"; and the chart-topping "Wrecking Ball". In 2020, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) awarded Diamond certification to "Party in the U.S.A.", recognizing sales of ten million for the single.

Cyrus' career accolades include making the Time 100 list in 2008 and also in 2014, being named MTV's Best Artist of 2013 Award, and appearing on Billboard's Greatest of All Time Artists Chart in 2019. She is regarded as one of the few examples of successful child actors-turned-singers. As an actress, Cyrus has made appearances in the animated film Bolt (2008) and the feature films Hannah Montana: The Movie (2009) and The Last Song (2010). On television Cyrus served as a coach on the singing competition series The Voice for two seasons, and starred in the episode "Rachel, Jack and Ashley Too" from the Netflix series Black Mirror (2019). Cyrus is an advocate for animal rights and adopted a vegan lifestyle in 2014. She founded the non-profit Happy Hippie Foundation in late 2014 focusing on youth homelessness and the LGBT community. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Miley+Cyrus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.