There are 5 artists Called Milkman:

1) Stage alias of electronic producer and performer Gregg Luskin.
2) A Dutch punk/hardcore band
3) Mexican producer based in monterrey (she's a tease member)
4) Grindcore band from Weymouth, MA
5) Rapper/Producer from Salamanca, NY

1) Milkman - Electronic Producer
Milkman is the stage alias of Electronic & Dance music producer Gregg Luskin from San Diego, CA. Milkman began his career as a mashup producer/DJ in 2007, and quickly became one of the leading names in the mashup genre. From 2008 - 2011, Milkman toured the country extensively while simultaneously pursuing a degree in Computer Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara. After releasing three widely successful mashup albums throughout his college years (downloads reaching the millions) and playing countless mashup shows, Milkman released his first original dance track, "Breaking Free", which debuted in iTunes Top 25 for Dance. He followed up the success of "Breaking Free" with a four-song Electronic/Dance EP, "Fragments", which itself debuted at #2 on the iTunes electronic chart. He has performed alongside artists such as Dada Life, Diplo/Major Lazer, LA Riots, Crystal Castles, Kid Cudi, Lupe Fiasco, Lil' John and many more.

He now currently tours with an elaborate laser light show that, using a unique combination of programming & controllerism (developed by Milkman), allows him to control both the sound and the lights simultaneously- resulting in an unparalleled light show that creatively and uniquely mimics the music being played and the actions of his controllerism. While not on his rigorous tour schedule, Milkman owns his own studio in Los Angeles, CA where he records, mixes and masters all of his original tracks as well as produces and records for various other artists. Additionally, every two weeks he releases a new 'After Hours' mix, showcasing the latest in EDM and is available for free on both his SoundCloud page, iTunes Podcast and his website. Prior to digital musical production Gregg Luskin was the lead guitarist of the alternative/punk rock quartet, A Dead Givewaway under Pacific Records.


2) Milkman - punk/hardcore band
In Tilburg, Netherlands in the mid-80`s, there was a hardcore band called S.R.V and a hardcore band called Kutnaam 1001. In 1994 Kutnaam 1001-vocalist Meeri joined forces with the three S.R.V.-members. From that moment on they became known as MilkMan.

This band's first efforts were a demo called  "It`s Not a Choice" (1995) and their first CD "Combover World" (1998). Loud, fast and tight was going to be their motto. In 2000 Kangaroo Records (Amsterdam) started to show interest in the band. Having a reputation for releasing loud and fast hardcore, Milkman felt it would be the perfect label. In 2001 Kangaroo released their second CD "Fresh Fruit For Rotten Aliens". The reactions to the CD were beyond the band's expectations and the MilkMan name started to spread further and further. This resulted in more compilations, The Official DRI Tribute CD and a split single with Dutch band Plankton. 

Early 2003 Milkman released their third album, "Is this Punk enough for you?", again on the Kangaroo label. The CD was comprised of 21 songs that "bursted off" in 24 minutes. Since then Milkman played live with bands such as DRI, UK Subs, Cause for Alarm, Poison Idea, Gang Green, Carnivore, Pro-Pain, The Anti Nowhere League, and Municipal Waste. In August 2007 their fourth album, Nostalgiator, was released by the Shield Recordings label. This CD was reminiscent of their "fast, loud and tight" playing style, but was also slightly more diverse. It took the band three days instead of the usual two to record and mix it. Their 15th anniversary was celebrated in September 2009 with an album release, "15 years of Hell".

4) Milkman is also the name of a Weymouth, MA USA based DIY e-grind act. His complete demos can be downloaded here for free : grindcorekaraoke.bandcamp.com 
Whole Milk is a compilation of Low-fat 1% and Low-fat 2% demos originally recorded in 1997-98. The complete demos compilation titled Whole Milk - The Complete Milkman Demos can be downloaded for free at Grindcore Karaoke: http://grindcorekaraoke.com/album/whole-milk-the-complete-milkman-demos

5)  Milkman is the name of former artist RileyEugeneBrown, who hails from Salamanca, NY. His work consists of genre-bending art. His new single “Ballsle” is out now on all streaming platforms, which is the theme song for his game “ballsle”, which is a parody of Wordle. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Milkman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.