There are 2 artists named Milkweed:

1) Milkweed is an Ohio based band, with its main fanbase located in Cincinnati and surounding areas. The band's unique sound is a collage of multiple musical styles, yet always remains heavy at the core. With jazz, techno, and hip-hop influences, Milkweed manages to achieve an addictive interplay of melody and groove (and sometimes utter discord) that makes even the most unsympathetic listener interested to say the least. For those that enjoy a good fuck in the ear, Milkweed is definitely the band for you. Milkweed's music will beat you, rape you, then gently caress you before it dismembers your seasoned sonic substructure and replaces it with such savory chaos. Milkweed's eclectic musical conglomeration is perfectly complimented with an incredibly aggressive vocal overtone mixed with just the right touch of humor that truly pries open your eyes to the miserable world around you and then forces you to laugh and forget about it. 

While based in Cincinnati, the band has spent the past 5 years focused on touring up and down the Midwest and East Coast, from Illinois to Florida to New York, and everywhere in between. During this time, Milkweed has opened for multiple major label acts, including bands such as POWERMAN 5000, Hed P.E., Bobaflex,Tech N9ne, Mushroomhead, 40 Grit, OPM, Flaw, Five Bolt Main, Vampire Moose, Stemm, Foxy Shazam, Rock N Roll Soldiers, Straight Line Stitch, Beneath The Sky, and more. The band is entirely self-sustaining, responsible exclusively for all promotions, booking, recording, etc. As a result of incessant touring, rigorous self promotion, and most importantly word of mouth, Milkweed has gathered a large following from all over the U.S. and overseas. Throughout the course of their collaborative existence, the group has released multiple minor recordings, but during the past year, the band has focused its energy on writing and recording what can be considered the group's first official full-length release. 

In 2005, Milkweed will commence touring to promote the bands first LP, "Body Floss". CD sales have already begun to take off thanks to an established foundation of dedicated fans as well as likeminded record labels and distribution companies across the U.S. and in Japan. Once touring has begun, Milkweed expects to experience increasingly significant success and looks forward to releasing its second full-length album, which is already in the works.

2) Milkweed was a one-shot, very obscure progressive offering by a group of Canadian artists released on vinyl in the late seventies. The album was re-issued in the nineties by SynPhonic Records, and is still carried in that label's catalog. 

While information about the project is scarce, this does not appear to have been an actual band, but rather a project to deliver multi-discipline art in the form of a progressive recording. Saxophonist Marcel Lapointe is an established performance artist and chamber musician who has also appeared as a guest artist on world-music recordings such as those of Musa Dieng Kala, and continues to perform today in the Quebec area. Guitarist Jocelyn Sheehy appeared as a stock musician in the 1974 Francophile film 'Guitare'. Multi-discipline artist Pierre Nadeau appears as vocalist on the album, his contributions consisting primarily of spoken-word poetry recitations. Mr. Nadeau was a well-known concert pianist in eastern Canada who passed away in 2004. The remainder of the members of the project have largely disappeared from the international music scene. 

Milkweed deserve consideration for inclusion in the Archives for the symphonic stylings of their solo effort, and for their semi-legendary status as an ultra-obscure seventies music project. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Milkweed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.