In 1993, Millenia began with founding members Devon Shoemaker (vocals) and Tim Throckmorton (guitar) They soon enlisted the talents of Mike Brown (drums), Paul Remy (bass) and Ryan Coyer (guitar) to fill out the lineup. Operating primarily in nearby Columbus, Ohio.

Millenia quickly developed a heavy, yet accessible sound, drawing on metal influences as well as hard rock. The band produced and released a few low budget demo tapes, which were well received and quickly became a staple among fans of local heavy music. 

In 1995, the band decided it was time for a change with the vocalist position, and Devon Shoemaker was relieved of his duties. This sent the band into a period of hibernation, while they auditioned numerous singers to find the right person for the job. 

During this period, Ryan and Paul began to work on a very experimental, spontaneous, and extreme studio project known as "Bloody Gutterslut". Through their work with Bloody Gutterslut, both men found their own unique singing voices, and it was decided that rather than bring someone new into the group. They would work with Paul and Ryan as vocalists. Many of the Bloody Gutterslut concepts became early Millenia songs. Tim Throckmorton then announced his departure from the group. Chris Crabtree, a friend and lead guitarist for the metal band Lich, was brought on board. This solidified the lineup as most know the band: Paul Remy (bass, vocals) Ryan Coyer (guitar, vocals) Chris Crabtree (lead guitar) Mike Brown (drums).

In 1996, Millenia released another low budget demo, simply entitled "1996" and continued to hone their live performance and amass a large and very faithful fan base. 

In 1997, Millenia proudly released their first quality, full length album on compact disc, entitled Bow Down. 

The album was very well received, gaining mention and exposure in national magazines like Circus, numerous underground 'zines, and even a Brazilian publication. Through extended live performance, Radio airplay on numerous national independent stations, and mail order, Bow Down sold out it's first run of 1000 copies. 

In 1999, Millenia released their follow up album, entitled "Gone are all the Godly Things"
Certainly their best effort, the quality of Gone are all the Godly things, and the publics reaction to the release enabled Millenia to tour more than ever. A very busy and exciting time followed. As the band continued to gain more and more notoriety and critical acclaim. 

In 2001, Millenia suffered a terrible implosion, live and on stage in Columbus, Ohio. All four members were involved, and you'll get four different stories on what happened. Suffice to say that it was a very emotional and very bad way for the band to end. 

Thankfully, the personal friendships healed, Millenia has even done two shows just for fun since the break up. But the end of an era had arrived. All members of Millenia are now very excited and involved with new projects. 

Throughout the years, Millenia played supporting numerous national artists..including Overkill, Crowbar, Iced Earth, Savatage and many others. They were also able to play extensively in Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania, West Virgina, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and many other places. The band was able to do this because of all the great fans and friends we made through the years, and this myspace site is dedicated to them. Though the band is a memory, the music, and the stories, are alive and well!

The members of Millenia are currently:

Mike Brown, drums, is playing with Ripsnort and Horny Goat Weed

Paul Remy, bass/vocals is playing with the Ross County All Star Metal Titans as well as fronting The Dan Haters

Ryan Coyer, guitar/vocals is playing with Further Lo as well as The Dan Haters

Chris Crabtree, lead guitar is playing with The Dan Haters

Jim Hamilton, keyboards, moved to Cincinnati, Ohio, and works with his studio project, Trailer Park Zombie

Tim Throckmorton, founding member and original guitar player, now lives in Marion with his family

Devon Shoemaker, founding member and original vocalist, lives in Chillicothe with his family

Members:
Devon Shoemaker (original vocalist)
Tim Throckmorton (original guitarist)
Paul Remy (vocals, bass)
Chris Crabtree (guitar)
Ryan Coyer (vocals, gtr)
Mike Brown (drums)
Jim Hamilton (keyboards)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Millenia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.