Million Dead were a London-based punk band that formed back in late 2000  through out of work associations, mutual friends and in the case of vocalist Frank Turner and drummer Ben Dawson from their previous band Kneejerk and ended after a farewell UK tour in September 2005.

The combination of original guitarist Cameron Dean's diverse and intricate guitar riffs along with the powerhouse combination of Julia Ruzicka's  bass lines were the perfect backdrop to Turner's often upfront and outspoken views on UK politics and society as a whole.

They released two full length records, firstly 'A Song To Ruin' in 2003 to critical acclaim. The band went into a brief hiatus after losing Dean on guitar to be replaced by friend of the band Tom Fowler who at the time was also playing twin-bass punk monoliths Palehorse with drummer Ben Dawson. After two years from the first album the band returned with what was their second and final LP 'Harmony No Harmony' in 2005.

The second album did not garner as much acclaim from the public as before, perhaps because of changing tastes and perhaps due to the change in sound that the band had taken.  It was still Million Dead but to some it was different.  If asked about the drop in show sizes and attention any member of the band would tell you it galvanised them into accepting and relishing the prospect of being a working punk band once more, without the hype and expectations of success that had been lavished on them before (and which they themselves had fallen prey to believing).

Shortly after the release of the album the band decided to throw in the towel due to personal grievances within the band. Frank Turner started to more heavily pursue his solo efforts consisting of alternative folk pieces far removed from what Million Dead had set out to be in sound (though not necessarily in spirit).  Julia Ruzicka and Tom Fowler moved from London to Brighton to start another band together and Ben Dawson continued with Palehorse and joined the Hardcore Punk band Armed Response Unit, the experimental bands Mothlite and Queen of Swords and is working on a metal project with Derya Nagle from The Safety Fire. He has also been working as a session and live drummer for many other artists including, most recently The Big Pink on their single 'Stop The World.'

The band released a deluxe edition of 'A Song to Ruin' in 2009 which comprised of the album plus five bonus tracks and a DVD including Cameron Dean's last show, the band's last ever London show and all their promotional videos.

Frank Turner's solo projects projected him onto heights of touring as support for Green Day and playing the UK and Europe festivals. In 2012 what many believe to be the return to his roots he formed Mongol Horde with Ben Dawson who have a similar sound to Million Dead.


The band comprised of;
Frank Turner - Vocals.
Julia Ruzicka - Bass.
Ben Dawson - Drums.
Cameron Dean - Guitar (2000-04)
Tom Fowler - Guitar (2004-05)


Current projects;
Frank Turner is now a solo musician - 
(www.myspace.com/frankturner)
Lead singer for Mongol Horde (with Ben Dawson on drums)

Ben Dawson now plays drums for - 
Pale Horse (www.myspace.com/thispalehorse)
Armed Response Unit (www.myspace.com/thearmedresponseunit)
Mothlite (www.myspace.com/mothlite)
Queen of Swords (www.myspace.com/queenofswordssound)
Mongol Horde (with Frank Turner on vocals)

Julia Ruzicka has played bass for Future of the Left since 2010. In the autumn of 2016 she released a solo album as this becomes us.

Julia Ruzicka & Tom Fowler have now formed -
The Quiet Kill (www.myspace.com/thequietkill) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Million+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.