Michael Milosh's vocals have been declared "sensual, airy, soothing, lush seascapes of erupting warmth and gentleness." 

Milosh, from Toronto, Canada, debuted his first album, You Make Me Feel ("Top 10 Electronic Albums," iTunes 2004), as a work reveling in the joys of new love. It celebrated everything from his girlfriend's taste to her positive presence in his life. But then they broke up. Recorded in the 12 months after his relationship's collapse, Meme explores all facets of the newly-single male experience: heartache, loneliness, lust, guilt, soul searching, and eventually, romantic rebirth. 

Says Milosh, "It begins with 'It's Over,' a song about my breakup with the girl 'You Make Me Feel' was about, and ends with 'Run Away,' about that need to get away from pain, from the dull routine of life, to be in a new place with my new girlfriend." The truly fascinating and voyeuristic moments, however, happen in-between these two big life changes.

On "You Fill Me," Milosh explores a casual sex experience, providing erotic imagery that is at turns sensual, violent, and spiritual. While much of the song delights in this orgasmic revelry, one can hear in Milosh's voice a desire for something more, a penetration of not just skin, but soul.

On "The City," Milosh reflects on his life so far with a hint of nostalgia. "The City was born out of a walk in old Montréal with one of my best friends from when I was young," says Milosh. "It was really hot outside, the air was thick, the streets were poorly lit, and there was no one around us. The city felt almost empty. You get a really clear sense of the history of the city on nights like that for some reason. It got me thinking about my history, my life up til then, and whether or not I had achieved the goals that I had set out for myself."

These candid tales would only be half-victories without a worthy backdrop, though, and the music here never fails to impress. Milosh's nuanced production subtly shades the emotional content of his lyrics, adeptly capturing every fluctuation in mood. Gliding on shuffling beats and post-Blade Runner keyboards, Meme fits comfortably alongside Junior Boys and Boards of Canada, using a broad electronic palette to frame experiences charged with raw feeling.

By album's end, Milosh has come full circle, back in love with a new woman, the pain of his previous breakup seemingly erased. He puts it best himself when he sings, "These scars from lovers look like scratches from strangers." These are deeply personal tales meant for discovery by present and future generations- generations bound to make the same mistakes and learn the same lessons in love.

Entire text copied from http://www.plugresearch.com/

Visit Milosh's blog <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Milosh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.