There are multiple artists using this name:

1.  Milo is a American rapper. He released his debut mixtape, "I wish my brother Rob was here" on November 1st, 2011. On February 19th, 2012 he released "Milo takes Baths", a mixtape featuring Milo rapping over Baths' instrumentals. Milo also wrote this blurb about Milo, apart from the bits he didn't.  In 2012, he signed to Hellfyre Club Records. In January 2013, he released two EPs titled Things That Happen at Day and Things That Happen at Night. Later that year he released the mixtape Cavalcade. Milo released his first official album, A Toothpaste Suburb, on September 23rd, 2014. On September 25th, 2015 Milo released his second album entitled "So The Flies Don't Come", released on Ruby Yacht.

2. Milo is an experimental band based out of Lincoln and Pawtucket Rhode Island.  The members include Robin Hewson, Mark Mennucci, Andy Wilmarth, Mike Decosta, and Jeremy Joubert.  They have been active since 2007 and have been active participants in the southern New England music scene.

3. Milo is a DJ working in the south east of England (born 9th December 1973) who first came to prominence as DJ Chill in the mid '90.  Super Chill music mixes are also badged as Parisienne Dave.

4. Milo is a Czech band with very funny events (concerts). 

5. Milo was the name of a Toulouse, France band composed of J.C. Nogues, Yvan "Doc" Mirouse, and Grey. They recorded an album entitled Best of Milo in the early 1990s.

6. MiLO is a band emerging from the Los Angeles downtown artist scene. With the writing team of Swedish composer Mikael Sandgren and Jamaican/American singer Lola Gayle, the outcome is much different than even they had originally thought. Their lyrics are cryptic and poetic. After a few listens they unravel into emotional statements about human frailty and beauty — the futility but ultimate victory of the human endeavor.

7. Milo aka Milo Ippolito has recorded two albums under his first name. His songs have been broadcast on the Dr. Demento show and various college stations. His tracks "Minimalist" and "Happy World" appear on the Dropped on the Head 2 compilation CD and the Shari Elf Tribute Album. His solo albums are Smell the Parade and Darkside of the Rumours. He performs occassionally in Atlanta.

8. Milo was the handle of a musician from the norwegian demo crew Illithid.

9. Milo is a happy hardcore/UK hardcore producer and DJ, and is one of the few happy hardcore/UK hardcore producers/DJs based in the United States.

10. Milo is the handle of a musician who creates experimental and electronic music at https://soundcloud.com/pictochat <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Milo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.