Mindless Creation (Budapest, Hungary) was an extreme metal band, found in 2001 by Adam De Chatel (drums), Csaba Rusko (guitar) and Attila Medina (vocals). Soon they were accompained by Attila Bogdan guitarist and Denes Sovari who played the bass. In the early times their music was influenced by thrash metal and hardcore by the path of Pantera, Sick Of It All, etc. This line-up changed suddenly, De Chatel, Medina and Rusko were left alone.

In March 2004 they met Gergely Orosz (guitar) Laszlo Stadler (bass), so the band were complete again. The new members brought their influences as well so the music of Mindless Creation started to move into a direction of more complexity and brutality. But the road seemed harder than they thought: the line-up changed again, because the singer, Medina left the band.

After long months of searching for a suitable singer, they've got it: Bertalan Csala seemed to be the missing link. The bands creative vein splat up with enourmous and frigthening pandemonium and the songs seemed more alive and heavy than ever. These new songs are not thrash-stuffs anymore, they could be caterogized as death metal, grindcore, hardcore, sludge-doom metal, whatever. Mindless Creation members never cared about categories. They just want to play fast, agressive, and brutal music.

This line-up has done several successful club-shows in Budapest during the autumn-winter of 2004. But problems never seem to end because they had to part with bass player Stadler. But luckily after a short break of searching, they found the bass player they need: His name is Tamas Kalapos.

In the August of 2005, the band had to end working with guitarist Csaba Rusko.

In August 2006 Sandor Roman guitarist and Viktor Vajda singer joined the band, so there were six insane lunatics crashing on stage. The new line-up was not permanent.

The band Mindless Creation seized to exist at October 2006 by common consent. Peace to his ashes. The band members went to make such bands as Endor, Igor and Harvester. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mindless+Creation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.