It doesn’t happen that often that a band starts a song in a technical metal style, switches to Ska and segues into a metalcore breakdown. Halfway through the song, the tempo is taken down and an atmospheric part comes in which flows into an epic chorus with a catchy vocal melody. This might seem like the recipe for total chaos, but Mind:Soul prefers to call this Circus Of Fear. The first song they ever played together.

Mind:Soul is a Progressive Metal band founded in 2010. The band hails from Amersfoort & Hilversum in The Netherlands. The focus of the band lies with writing challenging music which surpasses genre-boundaries that makes use of all the dynamic musical possibilities. The music can be tough and relentless one moment and it can be soft and gentle the next.

The band consists of Joey Klerkx on Bass, Roland le Fèvre on Synths, Raul Tămaş on Drums, Stefan van Leeuwenstijn on Guitars, Jim Ilden on Guitars & Tom de Wit on Vocals.

In 2011 the band released their first EP Patterns for free through their own website. The EP was well received by both critics and audience alike. The live gigs that followed showcased a band that could translate their technical skills on stage in a clear and powerful fashion. Especially the energy of the live performances got the band positive attention from audiences and fellow musicians alike.

While the band was playing their first gigs, they kept on writing new music. They started working on their debut-album The Way It Should Be. It will become a concept record dealing with two individuals that get sucked into each other’s lives due to an unforeseen twist of fate. The music on the record will be just as energetic and technical as the music presented on the debut EP but more musical layers of depth will be added to take the Mind:Soul experience to the next level.

Next to working on the album, the band re-released their original EP under the new name: Patterns 1.5 with a new mix and re-recorded drums, synths and vocals. This new EP features the original four songs from Patterns with a bonus track added from the live show the band played at Breaking The Layers 2012. This bonustrack is called Caught In The Pressure Cooker and this song will be a part of the debut-album as well.

The band wants to take to both the national and international stages after releasing their album in 2013. The band is looking forward to this, because they want to do what they like most: Showing what they are worth in the live arena and making the best music that they can!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mind:Soul">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.