Developed from the eastberlin metal band „Merlin“ and the westberlin metal band "Gracius Violence", Mind Odyssey was established by Mario Le Mole (Merlin, Gracious Violence), Dan Uhden (Merlin), Rocco Stellmacher (Merlin) and Volker Schultz (Gracious Violence).

Supported by producer Frank Bornemann (Eloy), there was a Demo recorded in the "Horus Sound-Studios“ (Helloween, Victory, Running Wild,…), which was overwhelmingly accepted, especially in Japan where the top rock magazine "BURRN!" wrote great critics about MIND ODYSSEY. Due to this very good response in foreign countries, the national interest grew and brought them to their first record deal.

As “Mind Odyssey”, their first album called “Keep It All Turning” was released in spring 1993. Afterwards, there took place a change of the bandmembers, in which part of the story Victor Smolski (RAGE) entered the band and from then on composed songs and took care about guitars and keyboards.

In early summer 1995 the studiowork for the next album entiteled “Schizophenia” began. Responsible as a producer this time was Hermann Frank (Ex-Accept, Victory). An impressive videoclip was produced and broadcasted on MTV and Viva TV-channels.

In 1996 two new members entered the band: Jan Keller (bass) and Andreas Dirksmeier (keyboards). After a lot of single shows across whole Germany, finally to the “Schizophenia”-album, there took place a European Tour as supportband for “Vicious Rumors”.

In the year 1997 the next album “Nailed To The Shade” was recorded and produced by Charly Czajkowski. On this album, as well as on the following European Tour together with Savatage, Mind Odyssey had the chance to show to the audience how experimental modern melodic Power Metal can be like.

Already in april 1999 the band recorded their next and in the meantime fourth album in the VPS-studios (RAGE, SILENT FORCE, NUCLEAR BLAST SAMPLERS,...) in Hamm/NRW Germany.
On “Signs” MIND ODYSSEY mixed progressive Power Metal with orchestra elements and delivered their best work so far.

We’re back!

In 2008 Mario Le Mole, Victor Smolski and Dan Uhden produce the new album, so the story since 15 years of MIND ODYSSEY can be continued!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mind+Odyssey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.