In a time when female-fronted metal is at an all-time high in popularity but also at an all-time high for copycats and imitators, MindMaze has striven hard to forge their own sound and identity. Hailing from Allentown, Pennsylvania (United States) the band are young but have already released two successful full-length albums since formation at the beginning of 2012. In September 2015 the band was selected to go on tour as a direct support band for metal legends Saxon and Armored Saint on the heels of an independently booked and promoted tour with the Virginia-based progressive metal band Iris Divine. The band has traveled thousands of miles and performed in 18 different U.S. States over the past several years.

The band's debut album Mask of Lies has been hailed by fans and critics all over the world as an outstanding piece of independent metal that is refreshing while being firmly rooted in many classic metal mainstays. With no label support, management, or outside hired promotion, the band managed to sell copies of Mask of Lies to fans in 34 of 50 United States and a total of 17 countries worldwide, selling 100% of the album's first pressing in the first 12 months of its release.

On the heels of Mask of Lies' success, the band released their sophomore effort Back from the Edge (2014), on October 24th, 2014 in Europe and October 28th, 2014 in USA/Canada via Inner Wound Recordings, featuring artwork by MONOWASP (Seventh Wonder, Harem Scarem, Brazen Abbot, Crash Diet, many more), Symphony X bassist Mike LePond on all tracks, and guest appearances by members of Stratovarius, Pharaoh, LORD, and Draekon. 2015 saw the band release a fan-funded EP in support of their single "Dreamwalker" which featured a selection of cover songs, acoustic versions, alternate versions, and a new original track entitled "Slave to the Cycle". The EP is on the verge of going out of print after only 6 months on the market.

The band is currently working on their third full-length album which is due (again through Inner Wound Recordings) in early 2017. It will be the band's first-ever concept album and will see them covering all sorts of new ground musically. 

MindMaze are:
Sarah Teets - Lead Vocals
Jeff Teets - All Guitars, Keyboards, Backing Vocals
Rich Pasqualone - Bass
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mindmaze">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.