The band MINDEAD was founded in 2001 by Timo Fielker, Marcel Grashei and Benjamin H&#246;lle with the common goal to turn their most heartfelt pain and anger into something good: Metal! A few months later the yet incomplete band found their bass-player in Benedikt Wagner, who could round off MINDEAD..s heavy, grinding, low-tuned guitarsound with some seriously ass-kicking, hard pounding low-end. The result is a dangerous sonic cocktail of hate, desire and depression: intoxicating guitars blended with floorshaking drums and emotional vocals from melodic melancholy to sick aggression that Timo passionately throws into the listener..s ears. But be warned: it..s highly addictive! Having received tremendously positive feedback after several gigs, the band decided to produce their first 4-song "Promo-CD" all by themselves, which they handed out for free at their shows. Further performances and achievements such as miscellaneous airplays at foreign radio stations and high rankings in a bunch of internet-charts kept following. Late 2003 MINDEAD recorded a second EP entitled "Still Empty". Like their first CD, they produced it themselves. Again the band gained a lot of positive reception for their work and was now playing shows with bands like Emil Bulls and The Anti Doctrine, and later even with international acts like Transport League and Mnemic. In July 2005 MINDEAD started recording their first full-lenght studio album. “Abandon All Hope” was released in summer 2008. The songs on this one burst of energy and sparkle in absolutely professional sound due to the producing skills of Ben Bariton, who also lend a helping hand to productions of the Farmer Boys and Dacia and the w.m.d. In order to be able to deliver the full impact of their new material in live-shows, the four-piece felt the need of an additional guitar player. So in April 2007 Michael Trautner, axe-man of MINDEAD..s local band-buddies Pachet, joined the band which brought a breath of fresh air to the band – musicwise as well as mentally. Being a complete five-piece pushed the band..s live performance and sound into new dimensions. MINDEAD are now loud, versatile and hungry for live-shows like never before. MINDEAD aren't just plain „metal“. They manage to write interesting songs by using heavy, moshable metal riffs refined with sometimes aggressive, sometimes melodic elements. In short: this band will appeal to both neck and soul. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mindead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.