Mind Assault  first emerged on the South African scene in October 2004.  During that time, there was very little scope for the movement of metal bands in an era dominated by punk rock and nu-school.  None-the-less, those four friends who founded the band were more interested in playing metal the way that they had grown up to understand it, and to do their part in filling a void that existed in the Southern African metalscape.

HOME CITY: Somerset West - Western Cape, South Africa

Within a year, Mind Assault found itself performing at various festivals and was running a well worn path through the local club circuit.  Early 2006 saw the bands first co-headlining national tour with longstanding South African metal greats, SacriFist.  Many sorties into the Southern African “inland” were to follow, setting up Mind Assault as an established name in South African metal.

By 2007 it was clear that a resurgence of public interest towards metal music was well underway in South Africa.  Incidentally, it was also at the beginning of that year when Mind Assault found a permanent drummer who would help the band to consolidate into the metal sound that they had envisaged from the beginning.  These two developments marked significant milestones in the bands journey toward greater heights.

In 2008, there was no longer any doubt that Mind Assault had achieved headline status on the bills of local entertainment venues and festivals.  They went on to release their debut album, Stigma, to a record attendance at METAL4AFRICA’s SummerFest’08, followed by their first border-crossing performance at the Windhoek Metal Festival in Namibia.  Throughout the year, Mind Assault continued their norm of touring to cities and playing festivals and clubs all over the country.

No longer blanketed in puppy-fat, the band in 2010 is represented by self-sufficient adults who support families, businesses and careers.  The local result of a global economic downturn has taken its toll, and most have had to abandon the life of the road until better times come again.  However, the spirit of Mind Assault has proven unbreakable!  Having seen the cutback of gigs as an opportunity to focus on writing, the band is still as active as ever before – if not directly under the public eye.  A guaranteed result, as already recently seen, is that the fewer live shows of Mind Assault will now surpass the ordinary more than ever before!  The band urges fans and supporters of metal to keep a watchful eye for news on future releases and concert dates, and to remain hopeful of a brighter future for African Metal.



RECORDING

Owing to busy performance schedules, Mind Assault delayed the release of the album “Stigma” until February 2008. To appease the greedy masses, the band has put out an independently released 5-track demo EP in 2005, a feature-length DVD in 2007, and have featured on a number of compilation CD's including “Fear The Noise” (Witchdoctor Records – 2006), “Innocent Blood” (Independent – 2006) and, “Hammer The Masses” (Dual Records – 2007). 

BAND MEMBERS:

Vocals: Jacques Fourie
Lead Guitar: Francois Pretorius
Rhythm Guitar: Patrick Davidson
Bass: Donovan Tose
Drums: Andries Smit

BOOKINGS:
Patrick: (+27)84 6214 913 - mindassault@hotmail.com
Donovan: (+27)83 3391 446 - dtose@antalis.co.za

INFO/CHAT:
Patrick: mindassault@hotmail.com
Jacques: jacques@mindassault.com

LINKS:
http://www.mindassault.com
http://www.facebook.com/mindassault
http://www.youtube.com/mindassaulttheband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mind+Assault">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.