Sharing an interest in playing and listening to music, it was only a couple of years ago when four guys from Vantaa decided to form a band of their own. After composing a few tunes and naming the band, they immediately started gigging at local youth centers. Having written enough material to record their first demo during the year 2000, a few days were booked at a studio and the result was a recording titled Hey You. It was distributed to a close circle of fans and friends, not a lot of people had the chance to obtain it.

As the band gained more experience and new songs were born, the next split demo release (titled "3") was done in collaboration with the band Hope. In the year 2001 Mind of Doll had an opportunity to participate in a local band contest. Despite the tough competition, the band won the first prize, a few days free of charge at a studio. The time was used to record the demo "Your Turn to Lose". The hundred copies pressed of the recording were sold out instantly.

Intensive gigging continued and the band started gaining a lot of recognition alongside experience. In 2002 the band performed at Midnight Party Planet Festival in Kouvola, which is a big midsummer event in Finland. Though the weather was terrible, the crowd was fanatic nevertheless.

In the autumn of 2002 the band recorded the album "Flashbacks" at Revolver Studios with the help of Orgazmos Music Production. All 500 copies of the album were sold out even faster than the previous demo. The feedback on the recording was uplifting and a growing number of people started finding their way into the crowd at the gigs following the release of the album. Good reviews, positive press!

It didn't take long until the band started working on their next release in the summer of 2003 at Janne Kerminen's Clean Cut Studios in Järvenpää. The outcome was an EP titled Bad Habits Are Golden, containing five kick-ass quality songs. What happened next? More vigorous gigging of course as well as more recognition and listeners.

The Mind of Doll have been staying very active recently also, as they have laid down new tracks at Clean Cut Studios. Some of these tracks have just been released on the Innocent single, so check out the samples. And while waiting for the upcoming new releases, don't miss the band's live performances when they're playing near you!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mind+of+Doll">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.