Multiple artists use the name Mind Control.

1.) Mind Control are a hardcore/punk group from Manitoba, Canada. http://www.myspace.com/mindcontrolperiod

2.) "To control mind, body and soul through music" is what DJ/producers Peter Bailey & Richie Santana set out to do every time they perform, whether it's solo, or together as seamlessly as if they were one.

Named after their peak-hour Stereo Productions smash of the same name, the duo's Mind Control residency started in late 2006 at world-famous nightclub Pacha New York. The party takes a bit of a unique approach in the club world, letting the two DJs tag-team track-for-track as their set progresses.

"It allows us to really work off each other, and work off the crowd as well," says Bailey. "Sometimes Richie will play a song, and it will remind me or inspire me to throw up a track that I didn't even expect to play. It has a nice spontaneity to it, and the crowd really seems to appreciate that."

But don't think that the sets are disjointed. The crowds at Pacha wouldn't put up with anything but the best. It's almost like, as the name suggests, Bailey and Santana are working from the same brain, or at least the same control center.

It works based on the long time relationship of Peter and Richie. They've been one-upping each other since 1991 when they met in high school. One was locked away in the studio producing bootleg hits such as Eurythmics' "Sweet Dreams", while the other was playing raves with the likes of Frankie Bones and Kevin Saunderson.

Fast forward a few years and Peter and Richie have undoubtedly become New York's premier production duo. Whether it be there solo productions or their work together as "Mindcontrol", they consistently turn out peak time floor fillers that receive support from a variety of DJs ranging from Victor Calderone and Dubfire to Roger Sanchez and Erick Morillo showing the true versatility of their sound.

But what separates Richie & Peter on the DJ front, is their passion for having nothing but the freshest sounds, often specially tailored with clever editing just for their dj sets, the two will not settle for anything less. Always on top of their game and always having everyone ask..."what was that record"!

After releasing their first compilation entitled “Mindcontrol” on Star 69 (2008) the boys have teamed up with Nervous Records to bring you their 2nd installment packed with obscure gems, unreleased originals and remixes, with a small dose of chart toppers sure to keep you ADDICTED. 

3.) Jake Stephenson's psy-trance project. Released album Magnetic Force at Kinetix Recordings in 2001.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mind+Control">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.