Mindfunk were a metal band containing members of Soundgarden and Celtic Frost.  Their name was originally intended to be Mindf*ck but due commercial pressures they changed it to Mindfunk.  Unfortunately this lumped them in with the burgeoning funk metal scene - everyone from Red Hot Chili Peppers, Infectious Grooves, Fishbone, Mordred etc. - but they had little in common with any of those bands.

The first Mindfunk album was straight ahead metal with a particularly driving bass and rhythm section as well as featuring some psychedelic flourishes.  Pat Dubar mentioned that he wasn't entirely happy with much of the album despite it gaining a lot of critical and commercial attention.  The second album saw the band hit their stride with a much more focused, Sabbath-influenced sound - taking them even further away from the 'funk' tag.  Considering the current strength of doom and stoner metal, Mindfunk were way ahead of their time and 'Dropped' still sound fresh and vital.

Unfortunately, the band were dropped - hence the album title - just before releasing their second album.  A subsequent lack of label support and decent marketing meant that Dropped disappeared from the public radar.  Again, given the fact that Soundgarden and Alice in Chains - on Dirt - sounded similar, Mindfunk deserved to be much bigger than they were.

Their third album, the People Who Fell From the Sky, failed to make any real impact on the music scene as the band's window was already well passed.  It built on the sound of the previous two albums but was somewhat unfocused - possibly a result of the frustration of seeing a promising career disintegrate through little fault of their own.

Former Nirvana guitarist Jason Everman joined and later left in September 1994 to join the US Army 2nd Ranger Battalion and the Special Forces. Louis Svitek went on to later perform with Ministry and has since opened his new recording studio and label, Wu-Li Records. John Monte also later performed with Ministry and M.O.D.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Mindfunk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.