Founded 2007, by guitar player and songwriter, Thor-Axel Eriksen.   At first, meant just as a project, for Thor-Axel’s musical creativity. After many years in progressive metal band Tritonus, and a few years with no playing at all, the urge for writing music was really present. The aim were to make songs, for the song itself. Heavy, riff based tunes, with big, melodic choruses. Inspired by great progressive bands like Fates Warning, Nevermore and Queensryche. But also other heavy stuff, like Testament, Fear Factory and White Zombie.  After making a few demoes, he recruited his former bandmates from Tritonus: Ole Devold on drums, Øystein Moe on bass, and Lasse Finbråten of Circus Maximus on keyboards. The project name: Beyond Flames.  Some searching and tryouts, and leadsinger Aslak J. Johnsen came onboard too. A professional musician, with great experience, from many years of performing, in different bands. He was the last, missing piece, for finishing their song ideas, and what they needed to move forward. A second guitar player was added, in Thomas Hansvoll. A former pro-boxer, and a childhood friend of Thor-Axel’s.  In 2008, they released a 3-track promo CD, and then continued their work on writing songs for a full album. Soon after that, most songs were finished, and drum recordings were done at Panser Studio. All the other members recorded their parts at their own homes tudioes. They changed the band name to MINDTECH, and guitarplayer Hansvoll’s former boxing career, landed them a support slot on Volbeat’s 2008 tour in Norway. Volbeat’s leadsinger have a great interest in boxing, and knew well of Hansvoll. MINDTECH played support on the 2 Oslo dates of their tour, December 2008. Hansvoll left, and after some time, the whole band was put on hold, due to other band duties, and lack of glow. Year 2010, the inspiration was back, and new guitar player, Marius G. Belseth, came onboard.  He brought some new energy and enthusiasm, and the guys were ready to finish the album. They re-recorded bass, guitars and vocals, to reach the quality they wanted for their product.  Producer duties were done by Thor-Axel, and it took a lot of time, and effort to finalize the recordings.  It was not until December 2012, that all recordings were done. The modern recording technologies of today, made it possible for them to use Linus Abrahamson, from Andromeda, for the bassrecordings.  He recorded in his home studio, Malmö, Sweden. As the album production came to an end, they invited some local guest singers, for various songs. Linda Kvam (a local pop/country singer), agreed to sing lead vocals on one song (Sons Of God). On another one, they have used Anette Uvaas Gulbrandsen (Sabbathian/Leave’s Eyes). She has multi tracked, what now sounds like a beautiful choir (Resistance).  For mixing the album, they chose to use Børge Finstad, at Toproom Studio. An experienced guy, with a huge list of productions, from artists like Mayhem, Tristania, Arcturus, Big Bang etc.  Mastering was done by Markus Teske, at Bazement Studio, Germany.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mindtech">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.