http://www.mindfactoryband.com

Mind Factory is a Finnish melodic metal band based in Mikkeli. The band has seven members, and has been around since 2002. Mind Factory has so far released three self-published CD's: Black Angel (2005), Medication (2008) and Ghost (2010).

Mind Factory was founded by Tomi Tesarczyk in 2002. In that time bands activity was limited into heavy drinking and composing humour music. And its results were epic: two music videos and few songs like "Jape Est Enorme", "Over the Electric Cow" and "Mummo" just to name a few. Somewhere also the heavy drinking changed into heavy metal. Tomi Tesarczyk (Vocals, Guitar), Ville Suvisuo (Guitar), Joachim Kratochvil (Vocals), Samu Häkkinen (Vocals) were the masterminds behind this band. Tomi even recorded Mind Factorys first demo "Mind Factory plays Klassical musiK". Covers from classical composers played by Tomi. Only 10 copies were made and they were given to relatives. After that, one more classical album was recorded, but never released. After this the "humour music project" was buried. 

In 2004 Olli (Guitar) and Pete (Drums) invited Tomi to play covers from Children of Bodom with them. Ville Suvisuo also played for a short period, but didnt like the music and left the band. 

Half a year passed and Tomi (Guitar, Vocals) came up with his own song "Winter Is Here Again" and Olli and Pete joined to Mind Factory. Year passed and such songs as "Whispering My Name", "Sounds of the Grave", "War Hunger" and "Music of the Dead" were composed. After a short time Aleksi Koistinen joined the band as bassist and new songs like "Nothing at All" were created. 

In the beginning of 2005 Erkko Romo and Eevamari Lahtinen joined as vocalists. Essi Tesarczyk was recruited to play the violin. Mind Factory Inc. had become a full band! Lots of rehearsals were going on and a lot of new songs were created. In the fall 2005 band entered the studio to record their first official demo "Black Angel".

In the fall of 2006 Mind Factory had a change of female vocalist. The new vocalist is Mirva Eronen.

During the summer of 2007 the band worked on a new EP, which was named "Medication". The EP was released on March 7, 2008. On March 19, 2010, Mind Factory released the long-awaited "Ghost" album.

Some of Mind Factory's songs are available for listening and downloading at Mikseri.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mind+Factory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.