The inimitable production/DJ duo Ming + FS comes with a bag of genre-crushing beats and breaks. Never regarded as one-trick ponies, the Hell's Kitchen residents push the boundaries of their hip-hop/drum & bass hybrid, peppering it with moody funk and atmospheric electronics. Blistering breakbeat workouts make way for hazy head-nodders and psychedelic jungle rollers, sometimes within the same track.

After meeting at a New York City party in 1996, the pair christened themselves Lead Foot and began creating their own breakbeat tracks, eventually establishing their own label and production studio, Madhattan Studios. Catching the ear of the underground community, they began producing tracks for a host of artists and labels, including DJ Spooky, Jungle Sky and Ubiquity. In addition, the two released the limited edition and now highly collectable Bar Mitzvah Breaks series of 12"s. Not only have these 12"s found love from mash-up kingpin Z-Trip and Beastie Boys DJ Mix Master Mike, but genius turntablist DJ Craze used them to win two DMC championships in 1999 and 2000.

Soon, bookings were flooding in from around the world and Ming + FS hit the road with a four turntable circus. Combining turntable trickery with a penchant for straight ahead party rocking, the Ming + FS live experience includes live remixes of favorites like Black Sabbath, Missy Elliot, Ludacris, Michael Jackson and more.

Eventually linking up with San Francisco indie Om Records and changing their name to Ming + FS, they released the classic album Hell's Kitchen displaying their self-defined 'Junkyard' sound, which would be featured in URB's "Next 100" as well as in the pages of Spin, XLR8R and Mixer. Two blazing albums for Om would follow: The Human Condition, a foray into house and breaks and their rugged return to form, Subway Series. The last album Back to One, has a solid core of hip-hop. Back to One builds a remarkably complete musical picture, encompassing Ming + FS' myriad of influences. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ming+%252B+FS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.