The Doom Metal band Mirror of Deception was founded by two guitarists, Michael S. and Jochen F. in 1990 in Göppingen (near Stuttgart, Germany).

The first line-up was complete in early 1992. The selftitled debut demo was recorded in 1993, followed by the second demo, "Words Unspoken" a year later. After line-up changes and another demo, the band signed a deal with German label Sub Zero Records in 1997 and issued the "Veil of Lead" MCD in April of the same year.

The recordings for the band`s debut album started in December 1997 and lasted until August 1999. Sub Zero had quit the label business meanwhile so the band finally found a new partner in the UK based record company The Miskatonic Foundation which released the immensly delayed but critically acclaimed "Mirrorsoil" album in January 2001. The release of the album was followed by tours in England and Germany with bands like Solstice, Warning and End of Green.

Lead singer Markus B. decided to quit the band due to lack of time in 2002, so guitarist Michael S. took over the lead vocals as well. To support their MCD "Conversion" the band played the first edition of Doom Shall Rise festival in February 2003 and toured with reformed US Doom legends Revelation and Finland`s Reverend Bizarre.

After another change of the rhythm section in summer 2003, the band recorded their second full-length album "Foregone" which was released on the Belgian label Final Chapter in September 2004. To support the release the band embarked on a tour with dates in Germany, Belgium and The Netherlands.

Besides some festival appearances in Germany and abroad, Mirror of Deception did also play a couple of shows in Finland with Count Raven and Reverend Bizarre in 2005.

Following the release of the third album, "Shards" in October 2006 on German label Cyclone Empire more gigs and festival appearances in Germany and abroad were played, including festivals like Belgian Doom Night, Doom Shall Rise V, Dutch Doom Day VI, Days of Doom and Mirror of Deception's first shows in Ireland. 

Album number 4, "A Smouldering Fire" was released in 2010, followed by gigs at festivals like Hammer of Doom and Malta Doom Festival. The band went on tour with 40 Watt Sun and Semlah.

The band was on hiatus in 2012 and 2013. After line-up changes on bass and drums the band continued with a new rhythm section, played shows, made an appearance at Heavy Days in Doomtown festival and worked on new songs.

The fifth album, "The Estuary" was released in November 2018 and presented live at Doom over Vienna festival. 
www.mirrorofdeception.de
www.myspace.com/mirrorofdeception <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mirror+of+Deception">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.