Mirrorthrone is a one-man Melodic Black Metal band with Symphonic and Avant-Garde influences born in June 2000, Switzerland, when Vladimir Cochet, the sole member of the project, decided to create a more eclectic and symphonic music than what he was used to do in his other musical activities (including Unholy Matrimony and Weeping Birth). Two demo CDs were recorded respectively in February 2001 and December 2002. The latter drew the attention of Red Stream Inc. who released in May 2003 the first official Mirrorthrone album entitled Of Wind and Weeping, a collection of early recording and demo tracks. This debut CD got an overall positive welcome from the specialized press and other music enthusiasts worldwide.

In 2006, Mirrorthrone released Carriers of Dust. Keeping the radical Romantic and Baroque base lead by a blasting extreme metal pace that had built the identity of the previous release, this new opus integrated more diverse influences which give an almost progressive taste to the music. Benefiting from a massively improved production, especially on the drum level, Carriers of Dust was a real step forward in the development of Mirrorthrone. 

After remaining silent for two long years, Mirrorthrone unveiled its third album, Gangrene, in 2008, still on Red Stream. Musically, this latest recording is an unstable stream where extremities tend to gather constantly; hence the unusual cohabitation of powerful and epic tones alternating with suicidal and desperate colors. 

Regarding the title and lyrical content of the song "A Scream to Express the Hate of a Race", Vladimir states:

"This is an answer to the polemic which is current at the moment on the Internet. No, Mirrorthrone is NOT racist, nazi, white pride or whatever you call it. The lyrics of the song "A Scream to Express the Hate of a Race" target the human race in its entirety. It attacks what is called the "nihilism" of a certain form of society that has been spreading around the globe and that envelops the "moral, social, religious and scientific" paradigms. I am not going to develop more for my aim is not to offer text analysis of what I have written; I only want to clarify the situation."

He is also involved with the following projects: Weeping Birth, Unholy Matrimony, Accurst Journey, and Deafening Loneliness. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mirrorthrone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.