Mis-Teeq were an English R&B group. Originally a quartet, the group eventually became a trio, whose members were Alesha Dixon, Su-Elise Nash and Sabrina Washington. They had two studio albums and nine singles together.  
After the announcement of their official split in In January 2005, they released a compilation album, Greatest Hits, they were awarded a 2005 Soul Train Lady of Soul Nomination for Best R&B/Soul Album - Group, Band or Duo for their album "Mis-Teeq".

A reworked version of their hit single "Scandalous" can be heard in the new Giorgio Armani commercial for their new fragrance - Armani Code.

Now Alesha Dixon is pursuing a solo career. Though her debut album Fired Up was to be released during 2007, this was postponed indefinitely,  although the singles "Lipstick" and "Knock Down" were released in 2006. Lipstick made it to number 14 on the UK Single Charts, and "Knock Down" was released on 30 October 2006. Since then, Fired Up has been released in Japan (2008). Alesha is currently recording her debut UK release (due out in the summer), and is working with Richard X, Brian Higgins of Xenomania and Johnny Douglas.
Alesha's new album, The Alesha Show is slated for release in the UK on November, along with the single The Boy Does Nothing. 

Sabrina, who changed her stage title to Puma Washington, released a demo titled "Pocket Rocket" in June 2006. The single was expected to be released in Autumn 2006, but Puma has decided to work harder on her debut album and wait for a specific time to have her debut album (to be titled "Comfort Zone") released.

Su-Elise, who has gone back to university to get her business degree, is currently hard at work on her debut album said to be released next year. She describes it as "R&B" and is possibly the only member of Mis-Teeq to stay with the genre left from the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mis-Teeq">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.