History: I started my first solo project in 2004 as Death Penalty. Only two albums and one single ["Sentenced to Death", "Resurrected Hell" and "Graveyard of Fallen Souls" -single] were released with Death Penalty and 90% of the songs were instrumental. 

One and a half years later, in 2006, Death Penalty was replaced by Hatemonger. Altogether four albums ["Resurrected Hell - Second Coming", "Gorestorm", "jesus christ... The Shit Incarnate" and "Diabolical Embodiment of Grimness"] were released under the name of Hatemonger. 
And now, in year 2007, Hatemonger has been buried and put to rest within eternal ice, as MISANTHROPENUM has crawled from the depths of Hell! 

I started creating a demo/debut for Misanthropenum on eleventh of August. I composed, wrote the lyrics, recorded, mixed and mastered all of the 10 songs in under two months, and released "Grave Waltz" on second of October 2007. The short period of time I spent on the demo occured as a shitty sound quality. 
I wasn't satisfied with the result of my first release, so two months later, on twentieth-first of December, I started making songs for my second release. I spent more time to create something darker, more symph-melodic, more aggressive and more malevolent than I had ever made. 
On twentieth-eight of January 2008, after finding the right sound, I started recording the guitars for the new album, "Nether Dimension". I recorded the vocals in one day on 11th of April. Two days later I finished mixing all of the tracks. 
13th of April: NETHER DIMENSION IS OUT! 

23th of June 2009: Nether Dimension is remastered and uploaded for free download at Mikseri!
Members: Worgohr
Equipment: rummut & basso: FL Studio 3.56. kitarat: HB SG & HB V & BC Rich Warlock Bronze. Amp: Line6 Spider II 212 & Zoom 606 ja Digitech Death Metal pedaalit. synat: FL Studio 3.56. äänitys: Audacity 1.3.0
Releases: Grave Waltz, Nether Dimension, Mere Odium <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Misanthropenum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.