Miscreants is an uncompromising metalcore band hailing from the Netherlands' most Northern city of Groningen. Comprised of Groningen metal and hardcore veterans and one former Shai Hulud frontman.
Miscreants' ability to carve high energy riffs into high energy songs is what makes the band stand out from the many others that crowd the genre. Add to that a frontman who's live energy is matched by few and you have a lethal dose of thrash before you... 2006 saw the band slowly honing their live skills on the road playing all over Europe; including a self-booked and highly successful European Summer tour, a spot on the Eurosonic Festival, Noordschok fest, a crushing performance at Frederica Fest (Denmark's premier underground music fest) 2006 and 2 mini UK tours as well as many more pummeling live shows throughout Germany, Belgium and The Netherlands - proving to audiences all over that Miscreants is a force to be reckoned with while simultaneously displaying the band's appetite for international acclaim and staying power.

Welcome the Miscreants
WtM is the band's self-introduction to the world. A collection of 6 raw and furious metal tracks in the vein of The Haunted, Hatesphere or even Carcass. Recorded over the late summer / fall of 2006 in Miscreants' own rehearsal space(s) by up and coming Dutch recording prodigy Nico van Montfort, a man well versed in capturing bands "raw and honestly".
Lyrically the EP is as dark and richly texturized as any work of literature/fiction. van der Velde tackles topics and themes such as 'the (ab)use of language in Religion' (Blood As Spirit), 'technological overoptimism' (The Ideal Austere) or even the supremacy of "reason" over "madness" (Welcome the Miscreants) and the marginilization of those who defy it's division.
Musically WTM bleeds and breathes energy. It's memorable riffs and choruses will make you want to put the record on again and again while it's lyrical themes keeping you intellectually on your toes and chanting along for more.
Add it all up and you have one headbanging, fist pumping and socially rebellious beast of an EP. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Miscreants">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.