2003 - 2010

Melodic Death Metal squad MISERY SPEAKS from Münster (NRW), Germany, have set up a fix line-up at the end of 2001. With their full-length album "Things Fall Apart", which the band produced and released independently in 2003, the band could achieve entirely positive reactions among live audiences and magazines. Within the last one and a half years, MISERY SPEAKS again managed to elaborate on their music and have put it on the next level. 

Their style has been compared to bands such as The Black Dahlia Murder, Arch Enemy and Amon Amarth. Mixing good old groovy thrash vibes with the harsh brutality of death metal, beautiful melodies blooming into atmospheric soundscapes, MISERY SPEAKS unite the best of these worlds. With their sound they will make friends in every niche of heavy music. Numerous live shows with bands like Napalm Death, Aborted, Entombed, Vader, God Dethroned, Heaven Shall Burn, Maroon, Disbelief, Dew-Scented, Neaera, etc., brought an outstanding reputation in the underground music scene. The five-track demo 2005 CD, which has been recorded in the Rape of Harmonies Studio (Heaven Shall Burn, Narziss, Maroon, Fall Of Serenity, etc.), was the result of intense song-writing and lots of live experience. In Spring 2006, MISERY SPEAKS once again entered Rape of Harmonies Studio under the knife of Patrick W. Engel, Ralf Mueller and Alexander Dietz & won Swedish legend Dan Swano for the mix @ Unisound in Oerebro.

Band splitted in 2010 according to their Myspace page: http://www.myspace.com/miseryspeaks/blog/531972106

And they formed a new band: Rocketchief

Drummer Janosch Rathmer comments: This is crazy. Dan is someone to look up to and we are extremely honoured to have his hands on this, we love his sound!

Here some quotes from the masters of sound: 
Dan Swano (Bloodbath, Edge Of Sanity, Nightingale, etc) hails: Misery Speaks hit me like a ton of bricks!! Alexander Dietz (Heaven Shall Burn) comments: This band takes the genre to a very high technical level while writing and playing the songs with so much heart without losing brutality and melody at all!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Misery+Speaks">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.