There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Misery is a crust punk band formed in 1987 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States. For a city that was known for bands such a The Replacements and Husker Du, this was a whole new take on the Minneapolis sound. Misery brought heavy, grinding, crust punk into a town full of college-friendly bar bands. They are are known for political, peace punk

2) Misery is a legendary Australian act that spans two decades. Playing epic doom-laced death metal, they are one of Australia's most crushing acts. http://www.facebook.com/miseryfuneraldoom

3) Misery is an American experimental downtempo funeral doom metal band from Southern Maine. Some members of Misery are also known for being in the bands Stasis, Exacerbate, Seahorse Battlefield, the Lotus Petals, Darktower, Necrolepsy,  Pair of Dice, the Potion, Green Wizard, Popeium, Plague, Jonathan Menderhaus, Attorney at Law, Cactus Hag, Devil Dinosaur, Eggplant Wizard, Waalrus, Highfather, Bleak Silence, and Retro Grave, a group with original Trouble drummer Jeff Oly Olson. 

4) INDUSTRIAL NOISE project started in 1994 and run by Andrey Ivanov from Moscow (Russia).
http://www.discogs.com/artist/630857 , https://myspace.com/miseryrus

5) Misery is a Spanish band that released their first album, "Space", in 2005. They sound similar to Placebo, Nirvana and Smashing Pumpkins.

6) Misery (Ｍｉｓｅｒｙ) is a Japanese visual kei rock band active between 2000-2002. They released 2 demotapes and contributed songs to 3 omnibus albums from Anarchist Records.

7) Misery is a Dutch electronic / gothic rock band. Two men behind their synthesizers and one stunning woman behind her mic, enjoying every second on stage. That's what you see when you see Misery live. What you hear? Dark beats, emotive melodies and a beautiful voice telling you about love, life and the misery that comes with it. Alain is the one who started it all. He founded Misery, with his brother Bert singing and his friend Edwin on guitars. A lot has changed since. Bert was joined by female vocalist Lis. The group made some promo's. As Misery grew into a band with a very distinctive sound, started to land more gigs, Bert wasn't able to keep up and left. Lis, Alain and Edwin recorded Misery's first album: Nexus. The songs on Nexus consisted of Alain's electronic symphonies combined with Lis' voice, that had room to expand to it's potential now that it was standing alone. All of this was framed by Edwin's power chords and old school solo's. After Nexus was released, Misery played at festivals like Summer Darkness and Terra Gotha and did shows with bands like XP8, Angels & Agony and Welle:Erdball. Alain's wanting to let electronics get the upper hand in his music coincides with Edwin's decision to move to Germany. He gets replaced by Maarten. Still performing regularly, Alain starts to write new material for a new album. Maarten joins in. Together they write eleven songs that are more sophisticated than before, explore greater depths, incredible highs and overwhelming lows. Both literally as figuratively, that is. 'Obscurus and Lux' is born.

8) Misery was a death doom metal band formed in 1990 in Sion, Switzerland. They played mid-paced death-doom metal with black metal elements in the veins of early Samael and Alastis.

9) Misery is a depressive black metal / black ambient one man band from France, formed by Thomas Bel. Bandcamp page: http://filledemisere.bandcamp.com

10) Misery Hong Kong based Visual rock band. Visit them at: http://www.myspace.com/hkmisery

11) Misery was a back metal band from UK. The group only released one EP, "A State of Suffering", through Thirty Days of Night Records, before splitting up.

12) Misery is a hardcore / powerviolence band from Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA. They have put out 2 EPs, Frozen and Disease Ridden. Bandcamp: http://miserysucks.bandcamp.com / Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/miserymi

13) Misery is a Metallica-tribute band from Canada. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Misery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.