Miserium was formed at the end of 2008 in Budapest, at the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music, as a Hungarian progressive death metal band. Check out our website: www.miserium.com our myspace page: www.myspace.com/miserium you can join us on facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Miserium and follow us on twitter: https://twitter.com/Miserium

The lineup is:

Álmos Iványi - vocals / guitars
Zsolt Renge  - bass
Szabolcs Tari  - vocals / guitars
Péter Tóth  - electric drums

Originally Miserium (lit.: "miserable one") was Álmos's old band, but it was split up because of musical issues.

Szabi has played in several bands before Miserium,

Zsolt played together with Álmos in the old Miserium and he wanted to play with him something proffessional and try to make something new. 

In December of 2008 Álmos asked Szabi (who was his old friend) to play together because he wanted to finish some old Miserium songs with him. The rehearsals started in January of 2009, and 4 songs were completed soon... As they didn't have a drummer, Álmos phoned their school-mate, Peti, to come to their next rehearsal. Peti is has since become a member of Miserium, so the band became complete.

In March, 2009, The band has decided to make a promotion EP (with 4 songs) to find management and/or a publisher. They have recorded a five-track demo by the end of the process, and self-released it as the Star Curtain EP.

In the autumn of 2010, the band recorded a two-track promo in Hungary's most famous studio (Denevér), and released the Promo 2011 record.

In March, 2011, Dávid Scheich has joined the band as lead vocalist; however, Álmos and Szabolcs still provide backing vocals, but Dávid left the band in 2012 because of personal issues, so Álmos and Szabi are the lead singers again

In October, 2012, The band would like to introduce you their first full-lenght album called: Return to Grace. 
The story's on :)

Inspirations:
Pain of Salvation, Opeth, Nevermore, Anathema with some symphonic, folk and funky spice. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MiseriuM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.