Two Scandinavian metal bands and an Italian hardcore punk band conquered the stage as Miseria. The power metal band from Finland was formed in 2002 while the five-piece alternative metal band from Sweden started 14 years later in 2016. The guys from San José, Costa Rica founded their band in 2014.

The story of Miseria begun in the summer 2002. A rock band called Desafinado decided to end their journey and so was Miseria born. The first line-up was very feminine. Virpi played the guitar and handled the vocals, Minja played the bass, Annu banged the drums and the keyboards were Paivi's field. Joni was the only man and the one to bring male vocals into the music. After few months it was time to make our first demo (Alone...) and soon afterwards we played our first gig in Luovan nuorisoseura, Kurikka. New demo, the Night of Fetus was published in July 2003. 

In October 2003 Annu left the band and a new drummer, Anssi Kaunismaki, joined in. Anssi played with us for a while and we played in several places for several different kind of people. In April 2004 Miseria was ready to record a mini-cd called Silence Within. 

In May 2004 Anssi decided to move to Helsinki and so Miseria was forced to find a new drummer. Fortunately Ville Karhu found us and joined the Miseria-crew. Miseria headed back to studio in April 2005. Within four days was born a single called Lost Forever. This record which includes 3 songs was released in 25.5.2005. Although music is faster melodies play still a strong role in the music of Miseria. 

By now Miseria has played about 30 gigs and there is more to come. One big breakthrough for Miseria is the gig in Nummirock, Finnish midsummer festival. In the winter 2006 Minja decided to leave Miseria. We found ourselves without a bassplayer and we also thought that it was time to make the guitars scream just a pitch louder. So in the beginning of the year 2007 Teemu Rantanen (guitar) and Jarmo Makela (bass) joined Miseria. 

Miseria is heading for studio soon, new songs are ready to be recorded so keep on following the path of Miseria. Much has happened and there is so much to look forward to.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Miseria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.