Miss Li (born Linda Carlsson, July 6, 1982 in Borlänge, Sweden) is a female singer/songwriter currently based in Stockholm, Sweden.

Her musical style is a mix of jazz, cabaret and blues. In high school she was in a metal band called Nobody and later on also called LiviaGray

Her first record Late Night Heartbroken Blues was recorded and released late 2006 and spawned the singles Oh Boy and High On You. The sophomore album God Put A Rainbow In the Sky was released just months later in May 2007, the lead single from the album was the song I'm Sorry, He's Mine - a song about how she stole her best friend's boyfriend just because she wanted him over the night.

She continued to release new albums in record speed when her new album Songs of A Rag Doll was released October 19th 2007 and she had now released three albums within a year. She told Swedish Groove magazine that vacation for her meant going into the studio. The album came with the single Gotta Leave My Troubles Behind which had some success on the Swedish "tracks" charts where the people of Sweden vote for their favorite songs each week.

In 2007 she was also featured on the famous Swedish artist Lars Winnerbäcks lead single Om Du Lämnade Mig Nu from his album Daugava. The single became a huge hit and was #1 on the track charts as well as the singles charts and lead to national recognition for Miss Li. In 2008 she released the compilation album Best of 061122-071122 which included her best songs from the past three albums and some unreleased material including the song Good Morning.

In the summer of 2008 she sang the song Oh Boy on the popular Sing-A-Long show Allsång På Skansen that has over a million viewers every week. This lead to the single becoming far more popular than it was at its first release and it went to #8 on the Swedish singles charts.

After an uncharacteristically lengthy break, she released her 4th album Dancing the Whole Way Home in March 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Miss+Li">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.