1:) Formed in early 2005, Missing In Action embarked it's journey towards a new musical dawn. Founding members Priel Horesh(Edgend) Oren Yaacoby(Vice Versa) & Ariel Papa got together, each donating from his musical influences, and for the first time wrote music that was very aggressive and powerfst Sahar Weissman(Poppers) was eventually replaced by Sarel Keren(Asgaut) and so Missing In Action's line up was complete. later that year MIA gave their first performance which received impressive reviews. 

Missing In Action is here to break your face! 
Bringing music and aggressiveness together into raw powerful performance. 
the only thing you can do is just fucking deal with it.  

2.) FRENCH GROUP : Missing in Action is a French electronic duo, created in 2008. The music band “Missing in Action” is not related to the Israeli metal band neither to the band originated from the Midwest which are using the same name. 

Basically a tribute band, three covers have been made public in 2009 : Never Never by the Assembly, Faith Healer  by Recoil and Translation of Love by Celluloide. Then a 2010 Faith Healer, remixed by People Theatre would also appear on the online compilation "Electronic Aid to Haiti". 

Their influences are electro pop, with figures like Depeche Mode, Kraftwerk, Joy Division, to name but a few. 

Missing in Action produced in late 2010 a cover of "Hostage" by Front Line Assembly, on the occasion of the remix contest  organised by Front Line Assembly. You can discover it the youtube channel, DATARAPERCLUB. The cover reached the 2nd place in the contest, the track being selected by FLA themselves...

The binomial, as Dataraper are also authors of a 7 title ep named "Naught Man's Land". Released in May 2010 , it is available for purchase with cdbaby.com. The two members are currently working on a number of projects.

3.) Missing In Action m the Midwest. A delivery of catchy Melodic riffs and upbeat choruses with raging sonic assult bridges.

Location: Peoria, IL United States
Formed: 2000
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Missing+in+Action">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.