There are several artists with the name Mistral.

1) Mistral is a disco group from the Netherlands.
2) Mistral is a one-man metal band.
3) Mistral is a dance music producer.
4) Mistral is a Breton traditional music band from Portland, OR.
5) Mistral is a blackgaze/post black metal band from Poland.

1) Mistral were a disco 'studio group' formed by Robbie van Leeuwen and Mariska Veres (both members of Dutch rock band Shocking Blue) and Rick van der Linden in 1977. They released three singles: Jaime (1977), Neon City (1978) and are best known for their last single 'Starship 109' (1978). The group split in 1980.

2) Mistral is more like art to Henrik Ryösä than a band - a vast range of soundscapes and moods he wishes to explore. A unique songwriting talent, he has penned songs in most genres of modern music since the mid 90's. His approach to music hails to his roots as an artist in that he is more confident about experimentation. He recognizes music fans can be more fickle, but with Mistral, Henrik believes he never abandons his own style, he just spreads his canvas wider than most.

Mistral began in 2001 as the band Sapientia dissolved after a brief 3 year existence. Henrik made the decision to move forward on his own with the production skills he had gained during his time working with the band. The first song produced for Mistral was not an original but a cover of "Threatened" which appeared on "A Tribute to Living Sacrifice".

Over the last 5 years Henrik continued to write and record tunes as he refined his vision of what was to become of Mistral. Moving from Canada to Sweden in 2004, he took a short break to regather his thoughts, acquire some new gear, and make new acquaintances. Now in 2006, he has not only done this, but amassed an arsenal of material, now being recorded and planned for release beginning later this year.

Here's the twist - he is not planning just one cd - but four, which will follow both one theme, and seperate themes. Each disc will contain 4 never-before heard tracks in a specific style, plus unique bonus material. Nothing is set in stone but this could include special printable artwork, remixes, or video features. After the 4th disc he intends to release all 4 cd's as a signed box-set. The planned releases are tentatively as follows:

1. Past - Classically influenced Melodic Metal
2. Present - Hardrock/Gothic/Doom
3. Future - Cyberthrash
4. Infinity - Scandinavian Folk Metal (sung in Finnish, Swedish & English)

Although he has received label interest, Mistral is currently an independent artist. Henrik is interested primarily in working with a forward-thinking company or individuals willing to try something different from the standard record industry business model and be a pioneer in the marriage of traditional albums with online music. If you want to know more, contact Mistral at: henrik AT metalhq DOT com.

3) Mistral is an alias of electronic dance music producer Richard van Dongen. Richard has released music in a wide range of dance music styles, however uses the Mistral moniker to release tracks belonging to the trance genre . Releases in under Mistral include "In my Dreams" and "Rhythm of Summer".

4) Mistral is a Breton band based in Portland, Oregon, playing the music of Brittany, France.

5) Mistral was formed in 2019 in Warsaw, Poland. After uploading a series of demos to test the waters, the duo recorded their debut album, Somnifer in 2020. Somnifer came out October 31st on Bandcamp and was released through Distrokid to all streaming platforms. The LP, being an attempt at entering the post black scene, is also planned to release in 2021 on cassette tapes through the renowned Folkvangr Productions. Fans and critics alike have described their music as somewhat reminiscent of Alcest, with a touch of Agalloch's darkness and sharing a similar tone with acts like Sadness. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mistral">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.