In late 1998, a band was formed that would come to be recognized as one of the bloodiest acts in the underworld of punk rock. Mister Monster was started by singer-guitarist J~Sin Trioxin. The band formed, wrote, recorded, released, and played its first show within a matter of 6 weeks of forming as a band. Audiences at the 1998 Halloween show were blown away by Mister Monster's performance, and the band's first release, "Songs From the Crypt," sold out its first pressing in a matter of days. Four pressings later, the band was regularly playing New Jersey and New York City, in front of packed houses. During the following year and a half, the band made small tours of the tri-State area and changes to its lineup. 

In 1999 -2000, J~Sin recorded tracks for a 5-song demo and recruited various friends to back him up at many NYC/NJ shows as Mister Monster and the Back Alley Butchers. In late 2001, now a full band, MM independently financed and released the full-length disc "Over Your Dead Body," which featured  already cult-classics entitled "This Night I Call (Bad Luck)," "Prom Night," "Scars 19," and "Resident Evil." The video for "Bad Luck," along with the video for "Gore Whore," can be found as bonus materials on the DVD for the horror film "Creepy Tales: Girls' Night Out" (Cinema Sky), on which the band's songs appear on the soundtrack along with those of The Misfits. MM has also appeared on compilations such as "Grave Rockers"  and "This Is Horrorpunk" along side the Nekromantix, The Crypt Keeper 5, The Independents, Blitzkid, The Spook, and Rock City Morgue. 

The band featured in the Activision Videogame "Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines" alongside Empire Hideous and Ghoultown. Thanks to touring all over the USA and self-funded releases, Mister Monster gained international cult status. The band's fan club, the Skeleton Crew, is an outfit that has helped Mister Monster get the popularity and cult status it so justly deserves. 

The band's D.I.Y. way of touring and self-released albums gained them success over the 8 years they’ve been a band. With every ounce of blood, Mister Monster strives to gain respect among the living as well as the dead. 

Frontman J-Sin Trioxin has traveled the globe spreading his unique blend of horror and 50’s doo-wop, and bringing classic chills back to the horror-rock genre. Born and raised in New Jersey, J.T. immersed himself in the underground punk scene at an early age, actively involved while a high-schooler in 1997. By the age of 16, J-Sin had jump-started his musical career performing and touring with bands. His talents as a musician led him to join the U.S. leg of the Misfits "Famous Monsters" tour as Doyle’s guitar tech and being recruited by Myke Hideous in the reincarnation of The Empire Hideous when that band was touring the USA. 

By 1998, J-Sin had formed Mister Monster as a doo-wop band. J-Sin and his East-Coast-based band busted as if out of the grave, taking the throne as the kings of the horror-punk scene. In 2001, Mister Monster released its full length debut CD "Over Your Dead Body" to instant success. Responding to a continually growing demand, Hells Hundred Records (NYC) re-issued that CD, enhanced with bonus tracks and music videos. 

No longer content to contain himself to one act or venture, J-Sin shared his talents with countless other acts within his short career. Besides fronting Mister Monster, he has played guitar for the popular deathrock band, Blitzkid. J-Sin also took on the role of touring guitarist for Michale Graves on 2005-2007 tours as well as on Michale's latest album, "Illusions." 

Then J-sin returned to New Jersey, working with Wednesday 13 as his touring guitarist. He set himself to writing brand-new material for the latest Mister Monster album.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mister+Monster">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.