There are several bands named Misteria.

1. Misteria is a Melodic Black Metal band with a handful of folk influences from Rzeszów, Poland. 
2. Techno band Misteria.
3. Georgian alternative rock band Misteria,  მისტერია in Georgian.

1. Melodic Black Metal Misteria

Current Members:
Paweł “Lord Viader” Leniart (drums)
Mirosław “Heniu” Mamczur (vocals, guitars)
Seweryn “Winetou” Gielarowski (guitars)
Kuba “Skrzatan” Pelczar (bass)
Dominik “Chomik” Sadłowski (keyboards)

Albums:
Masquerade of Shadows (1999)
Universe Funeral (2002)

Promo:
Promo '98 (1998)
Dare You Follow Me? (2007)

Misteria was formed in 1996 by Paweł “Lord Viader” Leniart (drums) and Mariusz “Maniek” Zawadzki (vocals, guitars). Not long after Tomasz “Grabaż” Grzesik joined them.

Two years later they recorded their first and only promo Promo '98 that featured two songs – Death-Dreams Journey and Yearning. It was a part of “Epicentrum,” a CD featuring promising underground metal bands from Rzeszów.

During February and March 1999 Misteria recorded their debut album – Masquerade of Shadows. The material got very positive reviews in the media, which resulted in signing a contract with Empire Records/Massive Management. The contract was broken off year later. During that time Misteria played concerts with bands like Lux Occulta, Gardenian, Decapitated, Neolith, Sanatorium, Demise, Devilyn, Sacrum, Sceptic, Epitome etc.

In Summer the same year, Misteria signed a new contract with Pagan Records and their album was released. Also Marcin “Novy” Nowak joined the band as a bassist (formerly bass was recorded by Maniek). 

2002 was the year that Misteria’s most succesful album was released. Universe Funeral (which is now sold out and very hard to get) hit Polish underground scene. Again Pagan Records released it.
The music changed a bit. Keys disappeared, guitars were faster, more thrash and heavy. The album was considered as one of the best albums made recently in Poland. It resulted in Misteria playing on Metalmania in 2003.

Unfortunately this was also the year when the band split up. There were some arguments after which Maniek, Novy and Grabaż formed a new band called Mysteria. Misteria stopped its existence.

One of the most characteristic parts of Misteria’s music were Maniek’s vocal (which varied from very clean ones to extreme growls), folk interests (which were fully shown in songs Folkien and Funeral (Folkien Part II)) and a mixture of different metal genres.

After a short period of time the band was reactivated by Lord Viader, the inventor of the original name. Misteria got a new line-up. From the old one only Viader remained. Apart from him Misteria is: Mirosław “Heniu” Mamczur (vocals, guitars), Seweryn “Winetou” Gielarowski (guitars) and Kuba “Skrzatan” Pelczar (bass). 

In 2005 the band recorded a new material “The New Beginning,” but due to "home-made quality" it was not released.

The year 2006 was spent on constant rehearsals, composing and concerts. In July Chomik joined the line-up as a keyboard player. Soon after another unreleased material apperad: the "Grill'em All Szatan Party"

The beginning of 2007 was marked by an official "Dare you follow me?" promo, which contains some of the tracks created for two former, unrealeased recordings.

2. Misteria was a techno band formed in 1992 by Peter Ries and Wolfgang Filz, best known for their single Who Killed JFK.

3.  მისტერია (Misteria)
Georgian alternative rock band formed in 2010, Tbilisi, Georgia.
Mostly, they're known with their album Town.
Members:
Dima Berdzenishvili, George Chkhikvishvili, Vano Javakhishvi, Dato Chkhikvishvili, Vaja Bekauri.

http://www.facebook.com/pages/Misteria/100511790007502?sk=wall
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Misteria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.