Younes Latifi (born 5 February 1984), better known by his stage name Mister You, is a French rapper of Moroccan origin and known for his freestyles and big collaborations with other rap and urban artists.
Born in Paris, he was raised in the Belleville area of the capital. He had a troubled youth and held in juvenile prison for brief periods on three occasions. But he was condemned for trafficking drugs to a 5-year term in 2007. But he escaped justice and lived in the south of France as a fugitive for many years trying to make a music career in very difficult circumstances His first official album was in December 2009 entitled Présumé coupable (meaning Presumed guilty). When in 2009, the French police issued a warrant for assistance in his arrest, he gave an interview in October 2009 daring them to stop him. He accompanied that with a defiant underground indie album entitled Arrête You si tu peux (meaning Catch You if you can in French).[2] Upon that, he was arrested on 3 December 2009 in the Barbès region of Paris. Although he admitted using drugs for personal use, he denied any involvement in drug trafficking. He was sentenced to 2 years imprisonment, with 1 year suspension. A grassroots campaign was launched under the name "Libère You si tu peux" (meaning Liberate You if you can). Many rappers included his materials on their albums, or including lyrics to demand his early release.
Since 12 Octobre 2010, Mister You has been under conditional release. Free during daylight, he returns to jail on nights, except for the weekends when he can stay home. Mister You has released new materials including mixtape and street album M.D.R. (or Mec De Rue) that incorporated cooperations with various rappers like Bruler & LaCrim, Tunisiano, Zesau and others and was released on 25 October 2010. It proved to be his biggest commercial success reaching #9 on the official French Albums Chart. Based on that success, he released a music video for "Les p'tits de chez moi", in duo with Mimma Mendhy [1].
ON 31 Octobre 2011, Mister You has released his third album "Dans ma grotte". The first single from the album was "Mets-toi à l'aise" featuring Colonel Reyel followed by "J'regarde en l'air". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mister+You">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.