There are three bands namend "Mithril"
1. A riff metal band from Kiel, Northern Germany
2. a power metal band from Dominican Republic
3. A 4 piece Celtic band that originated on the Gulf Coast of America
4. A female fronted power metal band from Hungary

1. Mithril from Kiel exist since 1996. They are still unsigned, but had a few appearances on local tv- and radio stations. In 2002, they released their first demo, "Among The Living", consisting of 5 songs. In 2005 followed "Dare The Heavens", their second demo. In the same year, they were rather successful at the Wacken Open Air Metal Battle. Presently, they are working on the release of "Deep Damp Dark", their third demo. Right now the band consists of Lasse Heuer (guitar), Gerald Rogier (drums), Henner Schweder (vocals/bass), Ralf Zimmermann (guitar). Their homepage: http://www.mithril-metal.de/ 

2. Mithril from Dominican Republic is a Power Metal Band created in 2003, their debut album "El Inicio de la Aurora" was released in 2005. The first single "Judas Iscariote" has scored the longest-running number one single, topping the dominican metal chart for 14 weeks. The current line up is as follows: Jose Velez (Vocal), Joel Batista (bass), Marlene Messanz (keyboards), Omar Rivas (guitar), Jose Alfau (guitar) and Bernald Rodriguez (drums). http://www.myspace.com/mithrilrd

3. Mithril from America is a 4 piece celtic band that mainly plays around the Florida/Alabama/Lousiana region.   Mithril's unique progressive style has its roots in traditional Celtic music but moves far beyond that, weaving such diverse influences as American folk, classical, and Middle Eastern melodies into their full tapestry of sound.  Every member of the band plays a wide variety of instruments.Tom Morley (fiddle, guitar, bouzouki, mandolin), Andra Bohnet (Irish flute, whistle, Celtic harp), Ben Harper (guitar, bass, flute), David Hughes (percussion, harmonium, melodica).   www.mithril.us

4. Mithril was a female fronted power metal band from Budapest, Hungary formed in 2001. They made a demo in 2004 called Season of a Soul.
Lineup:
Nóri Pádár - vocals (Without Face)
Gergely  Vitárius - guitar
Barna Tornyi - guitar
Gábor Pivarcsi - keyboards (Mindfields Factory, Ezüst-Patak, Everest)
Máté Hatolkai - bass (Carnia, S.P.A.M.)
Tamás Varga - drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mithril">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.