There's at least two artist with the name of Mitra: a traditional Iranian music band (1) and a thrash metal band (2)

(1). Mitra’s inspirational and unique music is a must hear! Born in Iran Mitra has a strong background in the performing arts. Mitra has performed for dignitaries, and Nobel Prize winner’s as well as the United Nations. Her unique vocals can be heard on films such as Spartacus, The Olive Harvest and the new film release Shanghai Red. The media has quoted her as being “mesmerizing”, and Robert Muller of the United Nations has said,”In my 82 years of life I have never heard a voice such as Mitra’s, it is from above, the voice of an angel”. A singer and songstress Mitra’s unique form of chanting, her lyrical soprano voice and her style of music which is a fusion of world beats, middle-rhythms, and a touch of flamenco is joyful, meditative, and heartfelt.


(2) Rising from the ashes of Speedealer (aka REO Speedealer) comes Mitra.  Featuring the addition of former Billyclub frontman Kurt Grayson. 

    Rock And Roll was never supposed to be polite, polished, watered down or delivered without destructive primal urge.  This is not only a fact that all four members of Mitra understand to the fullest, it's also the driving force behind why the Dallas-based foursome exist in the first place.  One writer has already said that the band are "about as subtle as a spiked bat to the ballsack", and now with the release of ‘All Gods Kill' Mitra's swing is set to strike.

 Produced by D. Braxton Henry (Drowning Pool, Jacknife, Dryline), ‘All Gods Kill' revels in Southern swagger and whiskey-soaked sting.  As feverish as a long Summer night in the Lone Star State the thirteen-song disc seethes with a greasy, gritty menace.  From the brassknuckle shuffle of opening track "Dead 2 Rights" straight through to the pummeling anthems like "Things R About 2 Get Ugly", "Warhorse", "Will Kill 4 Free" and "Grudge" command anyone within earshot to raise a fist and scream along.  Even song titles like "Violence Is Golden" and "Let ‘Em Bleed" alone tell you Mitra mean business.  Grayson drives that point home even further often turning his husky bellows into blood-boiling binges of rage before the band slams the breaks on the bludgeon.  Seldom does the Ehr/Harrison rhythm section provide anything but a piston-firing foundation and whether he's ripping out muscle-bound blues licks or charging, combustible riffsurge Eric Schmidt has quite a trademark style of playing. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mitra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.