There are several bands with the name Mizar:

1) Mizar (Мизар) is a Macedonian darkwave band formed in 1983 in Skopje, Macedonia. Mizar's musical style is post-punk, darkwave and gothic rock. Beside influences such as Joy Division for instance, Mizar also uses elements of Traditional Macedonian folklore and Byzantine music. Another main part of their music is Goran's (both Tanevski and Trajkoski) vocals which are based on Eastern Orthodox church chants. Most of their songs are in Macedonian. The last album's vocals are performed by a male choir, Harmosini, which sings in traditional byzantine style.
(Latest album "Детето и белото море" released under Мизар и Хармосини)

Discography:
1988 - Mizar
1991 - Svjat Dreams
2004 - Terrible Beauty Is Born (Kobna ubavina)
2007 - A View to a Flower Garden (Pogled kon cvetnata gradina)
2010 - The child and the white sea (Deteto i beloto more)

Current band members (2010):
Gorazd Čapovski (guitar and programming)
Choir Harmosini 
Zoran Ohrigjanski
Pece Kitanovski
and many other collaborators

Former band members:
Goran Tanevski (vocal) 1985 - 1991, 2006 - 2008
Ilija Stojanovski (bass guitar)
Žarko Serafimovski (drums)
Vlatko Kaevski (keyboards)
Panta Dzambazoski (drums)
Risto Vrtev (vocal) 1983 - 1985
Goran Trajkoski (vocal on Terrible Beauty) 2004 - 2006 

2) Mizar is a funk/soul/acid jazz band from Lund, Sweden. The band consiste of eight people between 18-20 years of age. The current line-up has played together for approximately two years.

Filip Bensefelt - Drums   
Kevin Hosford - Lead vocals  
Johannes Englich - Guitar  
Nariman Moghadam - Bass  
Oscar Johansson - Keybords  
Martin Blomberg - Percussion  
Isabella Posse Boquist - Background vocals  
Linn Bengtsson - Background vocals

3) Mizar is a neo-grind band from Lucenec/Slovakia
Robinko - vocals, guitars
Milanko - drums
www.myspace.com/mizargrind
www.bandzone.cz/mizar

4) Mizar is a weirdo out of New Jersey responsible for the album King of the Stars.
http://www.myspace.com/mizarkingofthestars <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mizar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.