There are 5 acts with this name:

1) MK Ultra was an American alternative band that played between 1994 and 1999. The group formed in the Bay Area in the early 90s, and went on to become a hit in local circles. mk Ultra's final album, The Dream is Over, was compared favourably to Radiohead's OK Computer in a Pitchfork review (see review ). MK Ultra was Dan Carr (now in Creeper Lagoon), Matt Torrey(Jets to Brazil), John Tyner and John Vanderslice.


2) MK-ULTRA (also spelled Mk-Ultra, MK Ultra, or Mk Ultra) was a hardcore/thrash band from Chicago, Illinois. They were known for their fast music and outspokenness on political and social topics ranging from capitalism to Christianity. Due to "legal troubles", the band was forced to drop the name "MK-ULTRA" in 1999.[1] They finally broke up in 2000, although the band continued donating songs to compilations for some years afterwards.

3) 22 year old DJ and producer, MK ULTRA, has been in the scene since late 2009 with a focus on bringing something new to the table. With styles ranging from synthwave to trash electro, MK ULTRA is a performer that will surprise with constant live edits and sampling. Having had beatport releases with PLAYNASTY RECORDS and CAPITAL BOOM RECORDS, he has worked with and remixed for the likes of Bang Chatter, Bionic Funk, Dirty Politics, Partysmartie, Kavinsky, Van Tek, and Riggers to name a few.

4) MK Ultra is the solo project of Travis Szendrei. Szendrei performs vocals, and is a multi-instrumentalist who writes and records the material. Aaron Bagley, who Szendrei met when he was just learning music, is the producer along with Szendrei of the upcoming debut album titled, “Documentation.” The music of MK Ultra is much different as it is fueled by raw emotion from life events Szendrei has experienced since moving to Los Angeles. The sound is best described dreamy, ambient, indie, pop all compiled into his most emotional record to date.

5) MK Ultra is a hardcore band from Germany. 

6)MK ULTRA is a hardcore punk band from San Jose, California. Featuring members/ex members of School Shootings, Septic Shock, Mental Disaster, and Follow Blindly. Active 2016-current. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MK+Ultra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.