There are three artists with the name Mnemonic:

1) German industrial/IDM group who released their most recent album "Monokultur" on the M-Tronic label.

2) German hip-hop artist from Mannheim. 

3) Alternative Metal band from Nevada

4) a short-lived instrumental industrial metal band that existed in Nottingham in the 1990s

3) Members:
Brian Stoudt- Guitars, Vocals
Chris Finley- Bass, Guitars, Sampling, and Vocals
Dan Horton- Drums, Sampling, and Vocals

MNEMONIC is a band of 3 people with a vision to create music that inspires both them, and their fans. Their highly anticipated album, Pandora, with producing credits by Sylvia Massy-Shivy (Tool, Johnny Cash) is a dynamic opus that proves they have grown with every passing show and song.

The Northern Nevada-California based unit formed in 2002 when Brian Stoudt (vocals, guitars) and Brian Walden (drums) rejoined from the break up of their previous band to start a heavier yet more melodic and intricate band. They met bassist Chris Finley through mutual friends and the three realized they had found the band they had all been looking for. The three entered the studio with Eric Broyhill (deftones, cake) to record the first album, Device. The album presented the area music scene with a new level of song writing and sonic distinction. Soon word started to spread, and the new material caught the ears of local radio stations, with “Spineless” gaining radio airplay and defeating artists such as Stone Sour, POD, Puddle of Mud, and Theory of a Deadman in KRZQ's steel cage match.

MNEMONIC quickly became a popular draw and influence within their local music scene with an engaging and undeniable live performance and an undying work ethic spurred by Stoudt's intensity. The organic buzz carried over to impressive cd and merchandise sales. Their invigorating mixture of metal and melody, sampling and texture, and driving drums and guitar is sure to catch the attention of fans of acts ranging from Sevendust and Tool to Nine Inch Nails and Nirvana. Lyrically, MNEMONIC explores the dark, introspective themes of relationships, desperation, and hope. But the group insists its fundamental message is a positive one. "The point of this band is to let people know that they're not alone in dealing with bad feelings or pain. Music is the perfect vehicle for release in a positive manner."

MNEMONIC has spent their time playing 100's of shows with fellow regional bands as wells as sharing the stage with Taproot, Adema, Smile Empty Soul, Powerman 5000, and Helmet.

In 2008, MNEMONIC has just begun to write their own exceptional chapter in the hard rock genre while laying the foundation for a popular, refreshing and undeniable musical future.

4) Mnemonic was a short-lived instrumental industrial metal band that existed in Nottingham in the 1990s. It consisted of Andy Balaam and Pete Beresford. Andy, on sequencing, brought an eclectic mix of musical influence from noise metal like Jesus Lizard through Nine Inch Nails and PJ Harvey to trance and electronic like Future Sound of London. Pete, on guitar, influenced by proper metal like Slayer and Machine Head brought the solid metal backbone that runs through the music.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mnemonic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.