For the past ten years, indie rock troubadours Mock Orange have continued to produce some of the most original and intricate records the genre has to offer. The band first introduced us to their sound in 1998 with “Nines & Sixes.” The record immediately established Mock Orange on the national scene and received critical acclaim in the press along with a spot on the CMJ Top 60 college radio charts. In 2000, the band followed-up with “The Record Play.” Produced by Mark Trombino (Pinback, Jimmy Eat World), the record continued to earn Mock Orange a legion of fans.
Despite this early success, challenges laid ahead for the band. In 2002, just after the release of the"First EP, " the band’s label, Dead Droid Records, was sued by George Lucas for copyright infringment. The suit resulted in the collapse of the label, and left Mock Orange searching for a new home. The e.p., however, was a progression, yeilding a sound that infused more diverse rthyms, subtle lyrics and angular guitars. The result was natural for a band who cut its teeth on The Flaming Lips’ “Soft Bulletin” and Pavement’s “Slanted and Enchanted.”
Poised to explore this new direction, Mock Orange returned to the studio, this time with producer J. Robbins (Dismemberment Plan, The Promise Ring), and delivered “Mind is Not Brain.” The record would wow critics, causing Alternative Press to call it the "closest to a perfect album we've heard in a long time." The band would also earn loyal new fans as it took to the road with relentless touring over three continents, performing alongside bands like Rogue Wave, Ted Leo, and Minus the Bear. Live appearances on MTV2 and songs on shows like CSI Miami, MTV's Real World and ESPN would follow.
On September 9, 2008, Wednesday Records will release Mock Orange’s latest offering, “Captain Love.” The record was recorded over the better part of last year in Nashville, Tennessee with producer Jeremy Ferguson (Be Your Own Pet, Josh Rouse). Punctuated by the engaging artwork of Kathleen Lolley (My Morning Jacket's Z), the record picks up where Mind Is Not Brain left off and proves to be Mock Orange's most sophisticated, ambitious and affecting release to date.
Mock Orange have also developed a strong following in Japan, touring the country five times with their Japanese label mates The Band Apart and releasing a split ep titled 'Daniels EP'. 2006 also saw the band making their European debut, touring in Germany, Spain, France and Switzerland. The UK leg of the tour was cancelled after the band's van was broken into in Spain. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mock+Orange">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.