Mocky is a pop music perfomer (born Dominic Salole) in Toronto, Ontario who later moved to Berlin, Germany.

He first  got international attention with his infamous Zoo concerts in 2001-2002 and his President Will Smith shirt on his own clothing label.

His first album "In Mesopotamia" found a following of loyal fans who appreciated the interesting mixtures of sound and the songwriting and introspective rapping.

With his second Album "Are + Be" (2004) he brought the sugary sweet electro and hip-hop together with songwriting clarity to  the radio waves with classics like " Mickey Mouse Muth%*!!" , "How Will I Know You" and "Catch a Moment in Time".

Mocky co-produced  "The Reminder" and the Swedish singer Soffy 0's debut album for Virgin Records as well doing sessions for the recent Jane Birkin album and  working with the Puppetmastaz and Kevin Blechdom .

He maintains collaborations with his Canadian Crew alumni including Peaches, Gonzales, Taylor Savvy and Feist.

He is also a frequent collaborator with Jamie Lidell, having co-written and co-produced many of the tracks on the albums "Multiply" and  "Jim" 

Mocky released his third album "Navy Brown Blues" in 2006.

In December 2008 Mocky announced the release of his new and mostly instrumental album "Saskamodie" on the label Crammed Discs on March 23rd 2009.

Having won a lawsuit against a Austrian supermarket that used his song without permission (they set it to a talking pig selling bio products) Mocky took a risk and spent the winnings on block-booking Ferber Studios (a classic Parisian recording space previously used by Nina Simone and Serge Gainsbourg among others) for two weeks, in order to record a totally acoustic album. Unlike anything he has ever released before, the resulting album "Saskamodie" - his first since signing to Crammed Discs - sees Mocky moving away from the electronic music scene and returning to his jazz and acoustic roots.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mocky">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.