1) Moco hail from Wigan, home to Uncle Joe's Mint Balls, the mighty Wigan Athletic and pea wet. They set their sights high and wanted to be added to this illustrious list.

2) moco is a Japanese female doujin vocalist.

1) The band have a strong following on the Manchester music scene and around the North West, as well as reputation as Northern firecrackers on the London Scene, playing legendary packed out nights at Alan McGee's Death Disco amongst others. Moco have supported a range of bands from the Charlatans, Electric 6, Arctic Monkeys and Boy Kill Boy to name a few and even spent some time recording with Tony Rogers of The Charlatans at their studio.

Moco have released three singles to date and two albums all independently and self funded. The critically acclaimed debut album ‘Out to Go’ received 7/10 in the NME and their debut single ‘Where She Goes’ beat the Strokes and Oasis to the coveted ‘NME Single of The Week’ spot.

The debut album ‘Out To Go’ was released in the UK on ‘Skinny Dog Records’, which is owned by Elbow and I Am Kloot (both bands being fans since witnessing Moco live), while in the U.S ‘Out To Go’ was released on ‘Pit Pony Records’ and became the featured album on Apples iTunes service and climbed to #1 on many college radio stations across the country, especially the west coast which led to the band playing in San Francisco and L.A and recording at the world famous ‘Plant Recording Studios’ in California. Two of the tracks produced in the U.S. ‘A Horse Is Just A Pony’ & ‘Cool Dancing’, appear on the 2006 mini album ‘Twice Bitten, Once Shy’.

‘Twice Bitten, Once Shy’ was released in June 2006 on Townsend Records and has achieved great reviews across the board. The title track was added to the XFM play-list and has been hailed as ‘Record of the Year’ by the Guardian.

Over the years the band have received ‘Single of the Week’ on XFM, won Fresh-Meat on Zane Lowe's Radio1 show, received daytime Radio 1 plays from Mark and Lard and have been championed by Steve Lamacq and Colin Murray. Moco have also been featured on the show ‘Soccer Am’ several times and had a track used on ABC teen show ‘Life as We Know It’ which starred Kelly Osbourne.

The likes of Elbow, I Am Kloot, Doves, Andy Rouke, Clint Boon, Oceansize, Electric 6, Howie B, Alfie, Har Mar Superstar, Queens of Noise, Kate Moss and Bobby Gillispie have been spotted at their shows!

Moco are currently writing and demoing tracks for their second full length studio album which will incorporate a new sound, in which the band are infusing some of their Northern Soul Wigan roots into their music. Imagine the Stooges with a full brass section and you are half way there. Moco are, and always have been unsigned and unpublished in all territories <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moco">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.