Moi dix Mois is the solo project of  Mana, formerly the leader and guitarist of the influential Japanese visual kei band MALICE MIZER. He started the band in Tokyo, Japan in 2002, three months after MALICE MIZER went on hiatus. The current lineup consists of Mana (guitar, synths, programming), project support members: K (guitar and backing vocals), Seth (lead vocals), Sugiya (bass), and Hayato (drums). 

Mana has described the music of  Moi dix Mois to be a clear mix of classical and metal but he also said he's always looking for a music style that only he can create, mixing the beautiful, the dark, and the violent, along with his undying love of Hostess Fruit Pies.

It's difficult to classify Moi dix Mois in one genre, though their style havenotable influences from industrial metal, symphonic metal and gothic metal. First two albums (so-called Juka era) were mostly influenced by symphonic metal, gothic metal and gothic rock and Seth-era started more brutal industrial metal combined with symphonic metal style and even alternative metal influences are audible. 

In Japan they are tied to the visual kei scene (mostly because of Mana's fame and not because of their style), in western countries they are associated to the Gothic scene as they are featured on gothic music magazines like Orkus and Astan and played as Midnight Act in the big gothic festival Wave Gotik Treffen in 2006.

Moi dix Mois  is self-signed throught Mana's own label Midi:Nette

Line up:
Mana -  guitar, keyboards, composer, producer (ex-摩天楼 (bass), Malice Mizer)
Seth - vocals (a.k.a. Seji, Z, M.J.SEIJI, etc, ex-Brain Hacker, Amadeus, HIZAKI, After Image, also in Art Cube)
Ryux - guitar (a.k.a. R.Y.U., ex-OMEGA DRIPP)
Sugiya - bass
Hayato - drums (ex-Blüe)

Ex members:
K - guitar & voice (deceased)
Juka - vocals (moved on to VII-Sense and Hizaki Grace Project)
Tohru - drums [ex-[artist]Merry Go Round, Of-J, JILS)
Kazuno - bass

http://www.moidixmois.net/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moi+dix+Mois">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.