Sometimes house party hangs can be a perfect meet-up point for creative minds to click; and even though Samir and Diego, a duo behind Moksi, is a perfect example of it, the success didn't come until they actually focused on working as a team numerous years later. Moksi's music is a kaleidoscope of screaming leads and bass face perfect-subwoofer loving drops. Even though lately they've been musically inspired by 00's Fidget sound, for those guys influence starts with the 90's UK garage classics, dubstep and all that goes with it.

Moksi's first mutual work, a 45 second snippet Getting Higher, later on elaborated into track, was noticed by Yellow Claw. Soon after that Moksi were making a debut EP Brace Yourself on Barong Family, where they were provided with absolute creative freedom. The two guys gathered in the studio to experiment a few melodies with no high expectations and have a little fun. Seems like je ne sais quoi attitude turned into something huge. Not only Brace Yourself EP lit social media platforms, was teased on YC's MIX 8, but got massive live show exposure from high rollers in the game. Moksi are also those lucky ones or maybe even the only ones who can say that their first DJ gig was at Tomorrowland. Guided by the Barong Family professionals, Moksi went back to the studio to branch out and embrace their creativity, which after only a month resulted into a sophomore EP "The Power of Moksi", which is a 4 track set infused with incredibly hard hitting drops, has already gained a lot of support by the heavyweights of the scene. Followed up to both of the EPs and the third one on the way this spring, their remix history includes YC's Till It Hurts, No Class, OWSLA's biggest dance record of 2015 Deep Down Low, DJ Snake's Propaganda, a track of Blood For Mercy album, and counting.

What does 2016 have in store for Moksi? Lots of touring and exposure. With a pocket filled with new tracks, the duo has already jumped into touring mode around the globe, as well as occasionally supporting Yellow Claw on their BFM tour. They will also be playing 3 shows during Miami Music Week, including the very first Barong Family label night in the U.S. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moksi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.