Moksha is the name used by several artists. 

1. Moksha is a project of former Ozric Tentacles keyboard player Seaweed. The project pre-dates Seaweed’s involvement with the Ozrics, with the self-titled debut album having been recorded in 1989.

2. Moksha is a rock group from Chennai, India. Established in November 1995, they have also played a role in establishing the genre itself in India. Unlike most Indian rock groups, Moksha has written some original songs in addition to the covers they perform. Moksha was also the only Asian group to perform for the Iron Maiden tribute album Children of the Damned. They followed this by being featured on a Metallica Tribute album, they had two songs listed, the first being an original composition ‘Dine with the Devil’ and it also featured ‘The Four Horsemen’ cover ver, Moksha lists its influences to be Iron Maiden, Metallica, Van Halen, Europe, Deep Purple, Extreme, and Dream Theater among others.

On Dec 18, 2006, the lead singer of the band, Leon Ireland, died due to a massive cardiac arrest in the wee hours of the morning, Leon was not a smoker or an alcohol drinker. The future of the band is as yet undecided.

On March 17th 2007, when Iron Maiden was performing for the first time in India (in Bangalore), Bruce Dickinson dedicated the song ‘Wrathchild’ in Leon’s memory.

Moksha was the only Asian band to be featured on an Iron Maiden tribute album, which was released by a UK based recording company called Energie Records. The twin CD pack features various renowned bands from all over the world. Moksha plays one Iron Maiden song and also one Moksha original, which rocked the Maiden fans. Moksha played a section of their mammoth 8 song Maiden Medley (performed at most of the concerts) and also the original “Chasing my Life”. The song speaks against the use of drugs & its authority over the human mind & body.

3. A metal band. Their first effort named Antarymin- (Underhill, 2002) was one of the most notorious metal albums released that year, recorded with Santi Garca in his Estudios Ultramarinos, the album got great reviews, and they were invited to perform at the prestigious Sant Feliu Hardcore Fest. Then they went again into the studio to record five brand new songs, that would become their second album, the killer The Five Leafs Of Oblivion- (Underhill, 2003), which recieved positive feedback. In the end of 2003, they recorded eleven songs for their new album named Ansium- (Underhill, 2004). It was recorded live in the studio in just one morning, and it meant their definitive consolidation: The quality of their compositions and the brutality of their live shows, situated them on the top of the Spanish bands, and among the most promising international ones. Next album: -Supersilver Haze- (Underhill, 2005), contains nine new songs, including a Janis Joplin cover for the song Move Over. It was recorded once again live and in a really short time with Santi Garca. For this album they have changed their style once again, sounding more Stoner-Doom oriented, with influences from bands like Electric Wizard, Entombed, Cathedral or Sleep, but keeping their very own personality that makes them sound really unique.

The band has been touring the whole year around Spain, and their album Supersilver Haze has had atonishing reviews all over, and it’s on every single ‘best of the year’ list in Spanish underground magazines. In April they did a 9 days tour along France, where they already got a lot of followers.

In all these years, Moksha have played with different bands like Entombed, Converge, Shora, Cult Of Luna, Pelican, Red Sparowes, Nine, Shai Hulud, Arkangel, Orquesta del Desierto, Stampin’ Ground and many more. 

In July 2006 they recorded three new songs for their split album with Moho, Adrift and Another Kind Of Death that will be released in October 2006 on Underhill Records. In 2008 they released their album " Moksha " .

4. Moksha is a Psy-Trance, Goa Trance, German group formed by Paul Hostia and Thorn Hoedh.
 
5. Moksha is an italian rock-pop band

6. An electro-industrial / dark electro band featuring members from Fektion Fekler. Released one album on Artoffact Records in 2000.

7. Moksha is the newest band coming out of Las Vegas. Featuring a Jazz/Funk/Rock fusion. THe band is comprised of Jeremy Parks, John Heishman, Pat Gray, Brian Triola, and Sam Lemos. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moksha">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.