Molotov Solution is a deathcore band from Las Vegas. They were notable for their politically charged lyrics, which include themes of government conspiracies and world issues. They went on hiatus in June of 2012, and the band announced  July 4th of 2013, they are back together and are planning on beginning the writing process for a new record very soon!

Molotov Solution was founded during 2004, the group's first release, "The Path To Extinction" was finished and released in 2005 and again in 2006 the band provided one half of a split release album with War from a Harlots Mouth.

In 2006 they signed to 12 Gauge records and released a split album with War From a Harlot's Mouth which utilized the heaviness and syncopated structure of grindcore and coupled that with their clear Death Metal savvy. 

In 2008 they released a self-titled album (Molotov Solutionwith a more straight forward, groove oriented approach:
"Molotov Solution's latest release is a big step forward for the band, a much more groove-oriented affair that sees the group toning down the grindcore influences once prominent in their sound for a much more immediate, focused attack."
"I was kind of tired of writing riff after riff after riff, not really repeating anything," Pina says, flanked by heavily tattooed new guitarist Joe Brady, who boasts more ink than "War and Peace." "I wanted to make very solid songs and make things distinguishable on the album.""

Released "The Harbinger" on June 9th 2009 on Metal Blade records.


On December 8, 2010, it was announced that Molotov Solution signed with BlkHeart Group. The band also announced a few member changes to the lineup. The band released their third full length album entitled "Insurrection" on October 25th. 


Line Up:
Nick - Vocals
Shane - Bass Guitar
Jacob - Drums 
Richie - Guitar
Cody - Guitar (Temporary)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Molotov+Solution">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.