There are ten artists with the name Moloch here: 

1. Moloch (Nottingham) - are a Sludge/Doom Metal from United Kingdom

Bandcamp

2.Moloch (Harrogate) - are a British black metal band

3. Moloch (Ukr) - are a Raw Black Metal / Dark Ambient from Ukraine
Official Site 

4. Moloch (Portland, OR. US) - are a three-piece hardcore collective from Portland, Oregon addressing social, environmental, and sexual apathy.
Archived MySpace

5. Moloch - is a pioneering Memphis blues-rock band led by the exceptional guitar player Lee Baker, released its sole album at Ardent in 1970. They promoted the release of this album by playing a show with punk stalwarts Iggy Pop and MC5 at the New York State Pavilion. However, their sound is purely 12 bar-blues with delta slide guitar, harmonica, frenzied guitar solos and tight drumming. Moloch was highly influenced by Blue Cheer, Hendrix, Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin, The Faces and countless other blues-influenced 60's rock groups. Lee Baker (who learned guitar from Mississippi Fred McDowell) went on to produce and play guitar on Alex Chilton's highly underrated album Like Flies on Sherbert and Big Star's swan song Big Star 3rd. See: Moloch - Klimt Records

6. Moloch (Pol) - a Black metal band with progressive elements from Poland.
Metal Archives

7. Moloch (Swe) - a Black metal band from Sweden who released only one demo in 1995 entitled "Cutting Holy Throats".  It has a very old-school sound reminiscent of Nifelheim, Bathory and Gorgoroth.

8. Moloch (Los Angeles) - folky lo-fi math/post rock from Los Angeles.
http://www.molochmusic.bandcamp.com

9. Moloch (Oklahoma)- one-man black metal project with two full length albums to date- The Sabbath of Fire (2013) and Cold Black Death (2015)

10. Moloch (Ger) - one-man blacknoise project of B.R.o.t.A (Black Ram of the Apocalypse) also known as Corvus Schwarznagel or Senhor Hellfire.Was active from 2000 to 2004. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moloch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.