There are multiple artists using the name Monarch.

1) Monarch is a sludge/drone/doom metal band from Bayonne, France, fronted by Emilie Bresson. In the US their name is often written Monarch!. The band was founded in 2002 in Bayonne, France. In 2005, they released their debut, a double CD with three tracks. Since then the band have released new albums almost annually; additionally, they have also released various EPs, singles and splits with Moss, the Grey Daturas and Elysiüm. Monarch have released with various labels, mainly with the Spanish Throne Records and have recently signed with US label At A Loss Recordings that will release their new record, Omens. Monarch have toured frequently outside France; in the beginning of 2010 they played alongside Wolves in the Throne Room in Australia, and 2010/2011 Monarch toured North America, Japan and Australia.

2) Monarch is a band based in Seattle, WA, United States. They released two critically acclaimed albums, "Lowly" and "The Grandeur That Was Rome", and are working on their third. Lead singer/songwriter Brennan Strawn's influences include Elbow, Radiohead, Sigur Ros, The Beatles, Oasis, and Massive Attack. Their shows are known for a "Paint with Monarch!" theme, where they provide art supplies for attendees who feel inspired to paint and draw and create their own art during the performance.
Originally from Pittsburgh, PA, Monarch is signed to Northern Records of Orange County where they released "The Grandeur That Was Rome" in 2003 and "Lowly" in 2007, featuring collaborations with members of the bands OneRepublic, Pedro the Lion, and Starflyer 59. As their music has been dubbed as “melodic-driven indie pop,” Monarch has been compared to bands like Elbow, Sigur Ros, Keane, and Denali. More info at http://www.myspace.com/monarch.band and http://www.northernrecords.com

Members: 
Brennan Strawn - vocals, guitar
Jesse Proctor - drums
Jimmy Nichols - keyboard
Warren Kinser - bass

Discography:
Lowly (2007)
The Grandeur That Was Rome (2003)

3) Monarch is a 5-piece thrash metal band out of Wilkes-Barre, PA, United States. The band began in early 2004 and is currently going stronger than ever. Coming from a depressed coal area, Monarch rises above it all to bring the listener songs that are sincere, positive, and fun. Those are three adjectives not used very often to describe a metal band. However, Monarch is not your average “brutal” metal band. With influences ranging from Darkest Hour to Texas is the Reason, the band is not afraid to incorporate something new if it means that it will add substance to a song.
This is one band that puts their heart and every ounce of energy they have into everything that they do. Their brand new EP has already earned them the attention of some of the industry’s leaders. Due to legal reasons, Monarch has changed their name to “To Outlive the Beginning”. Their new Myspace page is http://www.myspace.com/tooutlivethebegin

Members:
Bill Check - guitar
Ryan Farrell - guitar
Steve Weber - vocals
Mike Tyahur - drums, vocals
Brandon Whipple - bass

4) Monarch is a genre-bending metal band from Richmond, VA, United States. Monarch has existed since around 2002. The band released “Tragedy Holds the Hand of Hope” CD/EP on Pop Faction Records in the spring of 2004 and proceded to complete an east coast tour with Accursed Dawn in the fall of 2004. Monarch’s debut full-length, simply titled “Monarch”, was released in 2005 via Pop Faction; another tour ensued, this time with fellow Richmond residents Battlemaster.
A split release is planned between Monarch and Battlemaster/Municipal Waste side project Cannabis Corpse.

Members:
Dan Mills - vocals
Gabe Beverly - guitar
Joel Hager - bass
Joel Hollister - drums

5) Monarch is a Finnish death metal band that was founded in 2003 and became inactive and later on split up a bit after releasing their one and only demo on 2006 which can be heard at http://mikseri.net/monarch

Last line-up:
Eetu Keränen - vocals
Mikko Lötjönen - guitar
Pauli Hongisto - guitar
Lassi Hirvisaari - drums

6) Monarch is a 2-man electronic drone / stoner doom metal band from Silkeborg, Denmark. They formed in 2009 and make their music entirely on computers. See Myspace to listen to their tracks.
They are heavily influenced by Xasthur, Sunn O))), Electric Wizard and other black metal/doom metal bands and groups. 

7) Monarch is a hardcore band from Haverhill, MA / Plaistow, NH. Bandcamp page: http://monarchnh.bandcamp.com

8) Monarch was a one-time alias of house producer Manuel Napuri, AKA Prince Quick Mix, used for the Nervous Records release "Forever Slammin' / I'll Be Right There". It is notable as one of the first releases on the Nervous Records label. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Monarch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.