There are multiple artists recording under the name “Money”

1) - MONEY, is a four-piece band conceived in the city of Manchester, they became a vehicle of artistic expression and emotion led by Jamie Lee alongside his bandmates Charlie Cocksedge, Billy Byron, and Scott Beaman. Together they began creating their own brand of melodic, ethereal rock music in 2010 and cloaked themselves in mystery and intrigue from the outset, performing under a host of different names, including Youth, Books, and Méké Menéte, before they settled on MONEY. They are signed to Bella Union and released their debut album The Shadow of Heaven in August of 2013.

MONEY are part of that city’s tradition of earnest young men, “the weight on their shoulder”, as Ian Curtis once sang. They quote Austrian poet Rilke, while their Facebook features a “eulogy for the death of everything”. A recent Guardian New Band of the Day article contended that they “have a similar air of mystery and cerebral intensity to Wu Lyf, with a vocalist who can do enigmatically gruff as well as fervid and angelic”, positing them as the Mancunian Manic Street Preachers, with a shared sense of the sacred and intense.

2) - Finnish hip-hop artist, also known as Julma-Henri.

3) - Money is a DIY recording artist currently based in Toronto, Canada. 

4) - Money (M$NEY) is a singer from California, best known for working with Timbaland on his track Fantasy.

5) - Money was a vocal band in the Philly area, featuring future Network members Larry Baud and Mark Evans.

6) - Money is a new band coming from the Oklahoma DIY music scene—currently populated with diverse bands rich in punk/hardcore to shoegaze and alternative rock—Money delivers some of the heaviest straight-forward alternative rock music their town has to offer. Sharing members with the local OK band, Cursetheknife and inspired by late ‘90s bands like Deftones, Smashing Pumpkins and Far, Money’s songs are full of heavy bass, noisy guitars, and echoing vocals, where the band can easily fit on local shoegaze lineup, but slightly more heavy to fit on a punk/hardcore show. From the opener, “Trajector” to the closer, “Slower Hell”, Money does an excellent job in making these songs flow seamlessly while keeping the listener engaged and transfixed with sludgy guitars, clever interludes, and strong hooks on each song. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Money">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.