http://www.myspace.com/monoliyth -  From Monoliyths Myspace.


Monoliyth was formed back in 1998 in Melbourne, Australia, playing under the banner of thrash metal. Within months the new band headed for the studio to record their first demo entitled 'Deep In Your Mind'.
Although the production was rough, the music still maintained its raw energy, and opened doors for the band in terms of leaving the garage for the live scene.

With regular gigs and a healthy fan base Monoliyth returned to the studio this time to record the 5 track e.p 'Cosmic Citizens'. The cd had great reviews and secured gigs across Melbourne for the next 2 years.

However, as with a lot of bands, musical taste and direction ultimately led to band members going their own way, and, finding it impossible to get suitable replacements, founding member Mick Barr shelved the band from 2000 through to 2004.

It seemed the band would self implode like so many before it, until a chance meeting with Dark Earth drummer James Sinclair. It was then decided that he would offer his talents and assist the band, now playing death metal, in recording a full length cd.

Writing began straight away, and the band started recruiting members, including original guitarist Emmett Young. It wasnt long before Monoliyth were back from the dead with new material and a sound more brutal than ever.

Relentless rehearsal time saw Monoliyth punch out 8 new tracks for their up coming album entitled 'Imminent Demise' which is out later this year.

Monoliyth returned to the live scene and were delivering their own style of brutal, no bullshit Death Metal. Crowd responses and reviews have been a testament to the bands comeback, which saw them playing interstate and with international bands, and being described in Australian heavy metal forums as the epitome of absolute Death Metal...

However, the departure of guitarist Emmett and vocalist Richie, once again threw a spanner in the works of Monoliyth. Hearing of the misfortune, Dark Earth guitarist Brian Sinclair volunteered to take on the position of second guitarist. Once again, it seems as though there's light at the end of the tunnel for the death metal group.

Monoliyth will drag you by the throat and send you to your own Imminent Demise...

For bookings, merchandise, or any other info contact Mick on 0400628537 email: mickmonoliyth@bigpond.com

A big thanks to all our friends and fans, for the positive feed-back through emails and comments on this site!! After all the years of being told/advised not to play this style of music, it's great to know that people appreciate what monoliyth is about...

Cheers,

Mick...

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Monoliyth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.