There are (or have been) at least eight artists/acts called Montage.

1. Formed in 2011, Montage are a five-piece melodic hard rock group with a progressive edge, hailing from Finland's capital city, Helsinki. Montage released their eponymous début album in 2014. It was hailed as "a truly great and majestic album that hopefully will get a lot of attention in prog rock circles". In early 2015, vocalist Mikko Heino left the group, with Vesa Paavonen replacing him. Montag then started recording their sophomore album, entitled Metamorphosis (released in late 2016). www.montagefinland.com

2. When British rock band High Broom fell apart in early 1971, one half of the band formed Holy Mackerel, while the other half (lead singer Brian Pebble, guitarist Brian Bennett and organist Terry Dobson) formed a heavily Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young-inspired band named Montage. They recorded a seven-track demo for Polydor and  a début LP for Island, but were rejected and split up in 1972 without any official releases to their name. Their recordings have since appeared on various compilations of early-1970s British rock and progressive pop.

3. Montage was a baroque / soft pop / sunshine pop group of the 1960s, seen mostly as one of the side projects that kept Michael Brown busy between his work with The Left Banke and The Stories.

4. Montage is an electronic / ambient / drum 'n bass project from the Czech Republic, featuring producer and percussionist Thom Herian and charismatic vocalist Klara Vytiskova.

5. Montage is an electronic / 80s-esque / synth rock band from Atlanta,  GA, United States. They have a very versatile sound and many different moods: they can sound very like Duran Duran and probably have very strong 80s influences,  yet they can also sound very modern. Key members are Andrew Doss and Chris Jones.

6. The tropical beaches and sex tourism of Fortaleza, Brazil, yielded Montage, an electro punk duo consisting of Daniel Peixoto (lead singer and top model) and Leco Jucá (producer and unabomber), formed in January 2005. They soon relocated from Fortaleza to São Paulo. They released two studio albums: The Good Boys (2005) and Love Stories (2006). 

7. Montage is the violent solo moniker of Koji Takagi, who runs the noise, power electronics and industrial music label Monotype in Japan.

8. Montage is a punk rock band from Boca Raton, FL, United States. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Montage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.