There are several bands by the name Monument.

1) Monument are an offshoot of British hard rock band Zior, who released two albums in the early Seventies. Their only album, “The First Monument” (1971), is the result of an all-night, drunken jam session involving the four members of Zior. The album features a heavy, distorted, Hammond-drenched sound, and Zior’s trademark occult lyrical themes.

2) Monument are an emo band from Washington, D.C. Founded in 2006, Monument combines the sounds of American Football, Braid, and the like culminating in a badass concoction of complex guitar and unique vocals. Their shows are really really loud. Myspace is dead, check out the bandcamp! http://monumentdc.bandcamp.com

3) Monument is a New York City based rock band founded in 2005 by singer Zander Bleck. After numerous lineup changes throughout 2006, Monument 2k7 is: Zander Bleck-vocals, Troy Bleck-guitars, Joseph Visconti-bass/vocals, Andy Williams-drums/vocals. Monument is rooted in the tradition of the rock bands of the 1960s and 70s. The Who, The Rolling Stones, The Beatles as well as Free and Humble Pie. 
Monument has taken their hand at experimenting with sounds outside the accepted rock form, as shown on the new track “Paint My Fate”. The band pushes for a dance-oriented track akin to U2. They remain dedicated to taking up the mantle of rock’n’roll with melodic hooks, harmonies, and epic guitar riffs 

4) Monument is a modern death metal band from the city of Banja Luka (RS-BiH). The Band members are: Ognjen Bogdanović (vocals), Ognjen Topić (bass & backing vocals), Dejan Savić (guitars), Igor Dragelj (guitars) and Djordje Stanivuković (drums). More info can be found at the myspace profile: http://www.myspace.com/monumentmetal
Download Evolved Self Projection EP Megaupload or Mediafire

5) Monument (or Monvment) is a black metal band from Chicago signed to Sol y Nieve.
http://tnemunom.bandcamp.com/

6) Created in the summer of 2011, Monument is the combination of two already well-established electro producers. With their brutal basslines and dynamic attitude, the duo is set on proving to the rest of the world that the United States has an electro scene.  http://soundcloud.com/monumentdjs

7) Monument was a death metal band from northern Germany. They released two EPs in 1995: "Inobscure" and "Kainsmal".

8) Formed in the streets of East London by vocalist Peter Ellis (Ex- White Wizzard, The More I See), MONUMENT is bringing back a sound that has been missing from the UK for nearly 30 years... True British Heavy Metal!
With thunderous, melodic bass tones, dual guitar harmonies, rock-solid drum beats and signature falsetto wails, the band is determined to make a difference in today's Metal scene and is celebrating a sound that is rooted in melody and good songwriting that will inspire a new generation of Metal fans.
http://www.planetmonument.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Monument">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.