There are three bands called Moonbow.

1) UK-based trip pop multimedia project. In 2013, Eleanor Hardwick and Beau Hulse started to experiment in making music, with an aim to approach sound as another medium of art by placing the music within appropriate multi-sensory environments. Using a mixture of electronic hardware and found organic instruments, the songs sit in a strange middle ground between pop and narrative soundtracks. Each live show features a curated setlist to reenforce a transformative theme through a plethora of mediums, whilst video projects are presented as narrative short films, and releases are accompanied by zines of visual artwork by members of the project. The sound elements of the work are thus only a fragment of the story; the rest of that story being told through the experimentation of combining music with photography, video, zines and performance art. Moonbow's debut EP "Chiaroscuro" was released in 2015 via Dream Machine Records.

2) US-based heavy stoner rock band Moonbow started out as a writing project when singer Matt Bischoff approached David McElfresh of Hank 3/Lethal. The plan was to get together to write some songs for a possible recording project. After a few weeks of getting together at Davids house it was obvious that something bad ass was happening. They approached former Afghan Whigs / Hermano drummer Steve Earle and Bassist Ryan Mcallister of Valley of the Sun to form Moonbow. Their first full length album 'The End Of Time', is coming out August 30th 2013.

3) MOONbow is the solo guitar project from ex-Sky's Day Off drummer Dave Roberts. 
The elegance and intricacy of the multi-layered guitar that MOONbow uses in his tracks is best experienced in his live shows where he uses a loop pedal to give the impression that there is both percussion, bass and lead guitar all being played at once. 

Recently collaborated with fellow Hereford musician and producer Advert Shock. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moonbow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.