Moonlyght was formed in the beginning of 1995 by Roby(vocals/guitars) and 3 long time friends. After a year of hard work the band entered Onyx Studio to record the demo «Midwinter melodies» which sold out in a couple of weeks.

Moonlyght then played some shows in the Quebec City area motivated by the impressive response they were getting from Quebec's metal fans. Success was increasing but tension inside the band was starting to burst. For the next few years Moonlyght would have to rebuild itself with fresh and motivated musicians. The band was finally completed in 2000. Throughout those though years Moonlyght played a lot around the Quebec province and got a solid live reputation. The only thing Moonlyght needed to break out was to finally capture their songs on a full length cd and that's exactly what they did.

The 5 Moonlyghters entered Sonum Studio in October 2001 to record their first full-length album: "Progressive Darkness". In May 2002 after a year of hard work "Progressive Darkness" is released in Canada through Metal Disk records. The album features 7 tracks of progressive and melodic extreme metal totaling almost one hour of music. The album gets outstanding reviews : 10/10 at the Metal Observer (www.metal-observer.com) the largest metal related website in the world and 9.5/10 from the well know Canadian magazine Unrestrained. The album really seems to please heavy metal fans as well as music fans in general. In only a couple of months the first pressing of Progressive darkness is sold out. Shortly after the cd is released, guitarist Vincent Gauvin calls it a day, and leaves Moonlyght. Immediately, Fred Bedard shows up and demonstrates his interest in Moonlyght. With it's new line-up, Moonlyght gets a lot of on and off-stage experience, leading to much more dynamic and tight performances. In the following year and a half, they play a lot of gigs and are the supporting act for Opeth, Paradise Lost, Kataklysm, Strapping Young Lad and Anonymus to name just a few.

At the beginning of 2003, the people behind the Metal Observer website communicate their enthusiasm for Moonlyght's material, and become the official managers for Europe. Almost immediately numerous label show interest in the band and after a couple of weeks the band decides to go with Escapi record. Signing a contract for 2 albums and a dvd. The worldwide release of Progressive Darkness draws a lot of attention to the band from fans all over the world. Moonlyght is finally able to reach out to fans thanks to Escapi's partnership with major distributors such as Universal Music in Canada, Navarre in the U.S and Pony Canyon in Japan.

The band entered Nokturn studio, in Quebec City, in February 2006 to record the follow-up to Progressive Darkness. After two years, the band revealed that the album would be called Shining and be released in March 2008, but also that it would be their last. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moonlyght">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.