There is more than one artist named Moonface:
1) a Canadian indie band that began as a solo project of multi-instrumentalist Spencer Krug
2) a British DJ and music producer 

1. Moonface is a Canadian indie band that began in 2010 as a solo project of multi-instrumentalist Spencer Krug (perhaps best known as the pianist and singer and a primary songwriter for indie bands Wolf Parade and Sunset Rubdown, but also having featured with Frog Eyes, Swan Lake, Fifths of Seven, and more). Albums include Organ Music Not Vibraphone Like I'd Hoped (2011), With Siinai: Heartbreaking Bravery (2012),  Julia With Blue Jeans On (2013).

2. Phil Thompson AKA Moonface is a DJ and producer living, breathing the underground dance music scene for over 20 years now. Since being signed to John Digweed’s label Bedrock, Moonface became resident at the monthly Bedrock London and Brighton nights. Moonface has also been a regular at high profile events in the UK as well as major club nights and dance festivals covering most of the top spots around the globe, including gigs at JUNK club, Southampton; Ministry of Sound, London; Global Underground, Moscow plus regular events in Greece.
As a producer, Moonface has an impressive discography including releases on numerous compilation CDs such as the ‘Balance Series 006’ on EQ Recordings and the legendary Global Underground and Nubreed series, including ‘GU is 10’ a must-have compilation celebrating 10 years of the Global Underground sound. Bedrock released ‘Layered Sounds’ mixed by John Digweed and Phil Thompson and the now classic sounds of ‘Between Worlds’, a six track album of Moonface tracks, was also released on the same label and in 2001 was voted album of the month by several industry magazines.
Moonface remixed Colin Dale’s ‘Joy’ out on Endemic, plus his Moonface track ‘Know So’ along with more to follow. Back in 2008 saw Paulo Mojo’s remix of ‘You Get So Give’ feature on the compilation CD ‘Bedrock 10, Past, Present and Future’. Bedrock 11 featured yet another classic Moonface track ‘Futurized Fears’ remixed by Guy J released October 2009.
2009 saw Moonface looking for a new direction and this turned up in the form of DJ, producer and friend Tim Cook. After a number of years promoting and playing at their own club nights ‘Cartel’ alongside industry heavy weights such as Terry Francis, Omid 16b and Adultnapper, Phil and Tim then created the new project ‘Animalz’. As well as working in the studio together; they have a string of remixes. They perform together; back to back with a laptop each, a 2 deck Dj midi controller each, with use of loops and fx to keep things moving, two very distinctive styles coming together to make one relentless vibe.
For bookings contact: info@moonface.org  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moonface">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.