here is something copy/pasted from moondive's official myspace :)

In the spring of 2001, Moondive was founded by Smiljka (female lead vocal), Marko (guitar) and Bojan (male lead vocal). In that period songs "End The Night" i "Red" were written, and they represented the basic concept of the band - power metal with gothic and heavy influences, with equal involvement of both male and female vocals. The members of Moondive had a promotion of their ideas on Radio 202, in a show called "Demo Express", where they had it going with the song "End the night" high in the charts. In the summer of 2002, Maja (back vocals), Ivan (bass ) and Boban (drums) joined the band. Even though the lack of a keyboard player remained a big problem for Moondive, by the end of 2002. the band begun rehearsing. Due to several objective reasons, Bojan leaved the bend soon afterwards, and so Moondive got a new concept - exclusively female vocal line-up. After a few unsuccesful attempts at hiring a good keyboard player, in march 2003 Moon finally lites up our path! Keyboard virtuoso, Vlakey, joined the band. At that exact time, the song "Let One Go" held first place in the "Demo Express" charts for a long time, which caused Moondive's first live appearance to be at a live show/mini-festival called "Poklon koncert '202'-e Beogradjanima" (Holiday club - 10. 4. 2003.), where they played along with Kraljevski Apartman, Bjesovi, Enjoy Sarma, Beer Drinkers & Hell Raisers and Vlada Jet Bend. Moondive's performance was broadcasted on Radio 202 , and even though it was a first ever, it showed that they were a band to count on. A few live gigs followed - a gig with bands Dargoron, All My Sins and Spirit Of Destruction (Holiday club - 16. 04. 2003.), as well as a gig with Mithril, Desecrate, Insomnia, Hatred, After Life and Spirit Of Destruction (Dom Omladine - 26. 04. 2003.). Next gigs were already in may 2003. In july 2003. Maya joins the band on backing vocals, and Moondive takes part in a two-day mini-festival at KST in july, and a month later at a most famous rock festival in Yugoslavia, "Gitarijada" in Zajecar, where they won first place in the contest by votes of the audience. Soon afterwards they played on Hard&Heavy festival at Dom Omladine. In july 2004. Maya leaves the band, and Sale joins on live rhythm guitar and keyboards (in the absence of Vlakey). Several gigs follow, among which another "Gitarijada" in Zajecar. At the begining of 2005. band releases their debut CD titled "Dive With Me". Supporting video is made near after for the title track. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moondive">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.