Moonloop was born in 2001 as a way out to all the influences that Juanjo Martín, Raúl Payán and Eric Baule had. Those were Death Metal, Progressive Rock and many more, so they jammed toghether until first songs were born with Juanjo singing initially, and then Eric a few months later.

They played their first gigs at the Guitar Player Club in Barcelona and recorded their first demo titled “Things can Change” with Carles on bass guitar, but several style disagreements followed his departure at the beginning of 2002. At the same time, Eric recorded a solo album (with the same title of their first demo), wich had Moonloop songs and new material that determined the band’s personal concept. Eric also covered Porcupine Tree’s “Pure Narcotic”, wich was included two years later in a P.T. covers website (www.fusethesky.com).

In 2003 new songs were written for their third demo while a lot of rehearsals were done with a few bass players. Constant problems with their rehearsal room forced the situation to change it for a best one, with a recording room in it, so the band bought some new material and began to work hard for the recording sessions.

While looking for a bass player they met Jordi Ricol (also known as “Syd Barretina”) and played together as the support act for an Anathema gig in Barcelona’s Razzmatazz 2 on June ’04. Jordi joined Moonloop since that show as their definitive bassist. Two cd singles were distributed for free at Moonloop shows with cool reviews on musical press and also on the Web.

In March 2005, a live DVD was filmed at Metal Zone club in Barcelona and the band released it a few months later. For the recording sessions for their third demo Moonloop invited two musicians for a short colaboration: Pablo Selnik played flute on two tracks and Monique Van der Kolk (ex-Stygian Lake) made backing vocals for No-Mind. Finally, “Release from Duality” demo was completed at the end of the year and had 6 songs, though the sound quality, unfortunately, is not quite good. Moonloop’s third demo requires to be listened as a humble piece of musical work, not as a professional release.

At the beginning of 2006 Eric also included on the “Release from Duality” demo 6 new tracks more instrumentally oriented, written and recorded by himself at home. The final edition of their demo had 12 songs. Moonloop played more gigs than ever, Kanya a Sant Climent Festival (with bands like Baalphegor, Golgotha, Moksha, Deathless,etc), support act for the norwegian band Leaves’ Eyes (ex-Theatre of Tragedy) and many more in the Barcelona´s area.

In January 2007 the recording process for the third demo began with new fresh ideas coming from a more metal-oriented style. On June Jordi left the band and Dani (Romanthica, Lux Divina) joined Moonloop as a session musician.

Recently Moonloop have finished the new cd, titled "True Nature Revealed" and it has a more Death Metal oriented style than the previous recordings. A videoclip for the song "Strombus" is slowly taking form and a new live dvd is also on the works. For the next year the band is focusing on playing live more than ever, while plans for the next recording sessions will take place sometime over Spring 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moonloop">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.