Moon Bounce is Philadelphia’s warped electronic maestro, Corey Regensburg. Taking cues from classic R&B, hip-hop and even the rhythmic lurching of metal, Corey’s recognizable sound is the culmination of his unique artistic endeavors. Walking the fine line between creation and disintegration, his output combines soulful vocals with jagged percussion; calming, yet on the verge of falling apart.

In May 2011, Moon Bounce dropped his debut EP, Darn Your Best Frock, which was met with praise and intrigue by some of the most notable tastemaker blogs. Prefix Mag described the “vibrant spacey vibes” as “organic, cohesive and wholly enjoyable” while Potholes In My Blog praised his “stylish production”. The closing track “Jealousy March” spawned a hallucinogenic and beautifully shot video that nicely accompanied the haphazard beats and drones.

After sharing the stage with the likes of Shlohmo, Teen Daze, Groundislava and ANR, Corey released a number of singles, including the XLR8R featured “Telephone”. In fact, he had the starring role in the track’s video, showing a bit of his comedic personality and letting fans know that everything should not be taken seriously all the time. Working quickly and only stopping briefly to focus on producing hip-hop beats (another weapon in Corey’s musical arsenal), Moon Bounce teamed up with Chill Mega Chill Records and prepared to turn heads again with his sophomore Wheelhouse EP.

Wheelhouse’s classical piano infusion, pitch shifted vocals and syncopated bass fills work to create a serene, groove-obsessed atmosphere. Described by Chill Mega Chill as having a “knack for making ethereal, yet intricate, productions that feel loose and endless as space itself while simultaneously maintaining a precise and mature balance”, Moon Bounce’s vision continues to grow and his creativity shines in an otherwise predictable musical climate. Get on board or get left behind.

http://www.moonbouncemusic.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moon+Bounce">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.