Moose Blood are an English emo band based in Canterbury, Kent. They formed in 2012 and are currently signed to Hopeless Records. 

Moose Blood formed in August 2012 and self-released a demo, Bukowski Demo (Summer '12), in the same month. The group's line-up consisted of Eddy Brewerton on vocals and guitar, Mark E. Osbourne on guitar, Kyle Todd on bass and Glenn Harvey on drums. On 11 February 2013, an EP, Moving Home, was released through Fist in the Air. "Boston" and "Orlando" were released together as a single through Venn Records on 26 April. The band released a split EP with Departures through No Sleep on 12 November. On 16 April 2014, it was announced that the band had signed to No Sleep and would release their debut album later in the year. In May, the band supported I Am the Avalanche on their tour of the UK. Their debut album I'll Keep You in Mind, From Time to Time charted at number 45 on the US Billboard Top Heatseekers chart. They played on the 2015 Warped Tour.

Moose Blood announced in January 2016 that they would be touring the UK throughout April 2016, supported by The Winter Passing and Greywind. Moose Blood announced, via their Facebook and Twitter accounts, on 13 April that they had signed to Hopeless Records for their second album. On 17 April that the first single titled "Honey" was played on the Radio 1 Rock Show as the Rockest Record. Eddy also announced that the new album would be released on 5 August and would be titled Blush. In October 2017, they announced their 3rd album, and a UK tour with The Dangerous Summer in March 2018.

On the 22nd of March 2017 Moose Blood posted on Facebook announcing that drummer Glenn Harvey was no longer a member of Moose Blood after a girl posted about him sending inappropriate sexual messages and pictures to her. 

The band is currently on hiatus as of september 24, 2018 after being removed from the European branch of the Good Charlotte tour amidst allegations of frontman Eddy Brewerton stealing nude photographs of a fan and sharing them in the band's What'sApp group.

Twitter: https://twitter.com/mooseblooduk
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/MooseBlood/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moose+Blood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.