There are  at least 9 bands/artists named MOR:

1) Black metal band from Belgrade (Serbia)
2) Pagan/black metal band from Moscow (Russia)
3) Dark ambient/pagan metal band from Murmansk (Russia)
4) Punk duo with Karen Marie Ørsted (MØ) and Josefine Struckmann from Denmark
5) MOR = Masters Of Rap (Justus, Fumanschu, Jack Orsen, Illo, Ronald Mack Donald, Big Derill Mack)
6) MoR = Master of Ribongia (An indie IDM/Electronica project of Italian born Sound Engineer and Drummer Antonio Rosselli).
7) Bass and vocal duet from Iceland.
8) MOR = MORBAND (Mexico)
9) MOR, an independent rapper from Majorca, Spain
10) French band from Brittany, active in the early 70's
11) MOR,  Swedish trio with Mapei, Fredrik Okazaki and Rusiak
----

6) MoR (Master of Ribongia) is the indie IDM/Electronica project of Italian born Sound Engineer and Drummer Antonio Rosselli. He released his first EP "I've Cheated..." on the Netlabel BeatIsMurder in 2009. He is known for mixing electronic sounds with live instruments, creating a mesmerizing fusion of indie, ambient, and electronica. Antonio currently resides in Sydney.


7) 
MoR (Margret Eir / vocals and Robert Thorhallsson / bass) has been creating quite a wave in Iceland. The duo has been touring the country, selling out concert halls, receiving rave reviews. Duran, a cool collection of (you guessed it) Duran tunes has taken Margret (already one of Iceland’s most popular vocalists) and Robert (who has recorded over 20 albums) to a new level as well as introducing them to the U.S. and Canadian radio markets in the fall of 2006 by quickly charting on NPR stations like WVIA in Pennsylvania, , and CFBU in Ontario, frequently played on New York area stations like WFMU, WVOF and WESU , added to numerous playlists such as KTUH in Hawaii and KCBX in California and making WVIA radio host and producer George Graham's best of 2006 CD list. Translating. Interpreting. Incarnating. Transforming a cultural collage-- without sentiment or inhibition-- into translucent clarity. Duran is an homage that remains personal. 

- Putting a unique Icelandic spin on 80’s pop music,jazz folk and their original work, the duet MoR is causing a stir in Iceland and beyond. The unusual combination of Margrét Eir’s powerful voice and a the skillful playing of bass player, Róbert Thórhallsson, transforms the music of artists such as Duran Duran, Coldplay, Radiohead and Joni Mitchell. MoR’s minimalistic renditions bring out the essence of each composition.
The duet, established in 2003 has played in concert venues around Iceland as well as on national radio and has been invited to participate in jazz festivals around the globe.
Margrét Eir is one of Iceland’s most popular vocalists. Classically trained in Reykjavik music school and graduating in 1998 from Emerson College in Boston with a BFA in acting and musical theater. Margrét has released three critically acclaimed solo CDs and has songs on various compilation albums. She has also performed in various musicals including Hair, Rent, Grease and Oliver and has been nominated three time for the Icelandic Music Awards female vocalist of the years.
Róbert graduated from Fíh in 1997 as electric bass guitar player and completed a Master and music teacher certification from the Conservatorium van Amsterdam in 2001. Róbert has worked on numerous theater muscical orchestrations, including Superstar,Stone free and Chicago, performed at countless concerts and on Icelandic and Dutch Television as well as recorded more than 20 albums. He also toured Europe with the jazz quartet Mars.
MoR released their first cd MoR Duran in august 2005. With only music by Duran Duran

8) MOR (Mexico)

Has VivIdo la sensacion de no saber si estás dormido o despierto?
Esa Frase representan las letras de MOR.
Biografía
Has VivIdo la sensacion de no saber si estás dormido o despierto?
Esa Frase representan las letras de MOR.
Mor Nace en el 2005, después de las reflexiones de sus integrantes: “sOMOS bUENOS paRA eSTO!!!”
Únicamente con una guitarra, una bateria y un vocal inician su experiencia en el mundo underground
del rock.
Actualmente tienen covers de las principales Bandas de rock en México y el Mundo: Korn, Pixies,
Nirvana, Perl Jam, U2, The Strokes, Green Day, entre otras..
 con un repertorio de más de 12 canciones propias, entre las que se cuentran “No me puedo
defender” y “Morir así“.
Tienen influencias del Indie Mexicano, Hardcore y Rock clásico, pero han podido crear un
estilo único, que hace que prendan en todas la fiestas y tokines…
Entre sus apariciones más importantes podemos mencionar el HIkari Fest, Guerra de Bandas y sus famosos Show Case’s.
Atrevete a conocerlos y vivir la experiencia MOR!!

9) MOR is a teen from Majorca, Spain, who sings with Rasty Family Crew (DVB, Exuro) and has some songs on Youtube <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.