There are various artists with this name:

1. -  Sludge/hardcore band from Ottawa, Ontario, Canada

Bandcamp

2. -  MoraToriuM was founded in 2008 with 4 members, Gábor Hámori (gabe) – guitar, Péter Szmolnik (plaskov) – guitar, Sick – vocals and Tommy – drums - The hard and heavy death metal was the main course the band wanted to take, but as the songs were being written and time went on, this took a more technical course with a lot of heavy riffs. 

  In the early days of the band, „Verdict”, „Hundred Decades of Suffering”, „Price of Loyalty” and „Hollowing Mankind” were the first four songs written, which later became a „guidline” for the band and its future song writing skills. In February of 2009, the first demo was recorded with then bass player Keccs. 

  In the summer of 2009, new songs were written and completed. These songs opened a new period for the band and showed that the band have matured drastically and even named a unique category after themselves called „WRATHCORE”. 
  More complex riffs, heavier breakdowns, and blastbeats are all part of the newer songs. All these are noticable in „Bloodgore” which is the opening song with back-vocals, then the others: ”Denied by Life”, ”Creation of Your Mind”. During, the writing of the news songs, Keccs, the bass player quit the band. Taking up his positiong is new comer PG. Next in line was ”Wounded’n’Deep” which is a song with serious rythmical changes and lots of broke down guitar parts. 

  The band's style is more and more closer to the Canadian/US bands that are popular in this style. The „WRATHCORE” came from the bands style which is mainly a mix of deathcore with a little bit of metalcore, blended with a bit of progressive elements based on death metal. 
  The brutal parts of ”The Pain Comes Closer” opens with heavy riffs and blastbeats and this countinues to these days. 

  You can meet the band live in shows around Budapest and also on the self-organized event called „B3 Event – Metal Nite”.

3. -  Moratorium was founded by Dan Påhlsson and Anders Isberg in Boden, Sweden, at the beginning of 2003. The idea behind the project was to create music that they themselves liked to play as well as listen to. The music can be described as a somewhat odd mixture of Goth, Doom and progressive rock. It is mostly slow, melancholic and dark, sometimes containing heavier parts. Mental illness, serial killers and fanatics are recurring lyrical themes. The lyrics deal in different aspects of the dark side of humanity. Moratorium has up until now produced three demos of self-written material, plus an eccentric cover of the old songbook classic Tom Dooley. The first demo was a trifle incoherent, ranging from dark and heavy to melodic, almost popish. On the latest demo the music has come closer to the original musical vision behind Moratorium. It's heavier, darker and includes progressive elements.

4. -  Starting out called Abhorrence in 1991, the band morphed into Moratorium in 1992. Some members went on to Dominus that ultimately became Volbeat. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moratorium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.