MORANTE: MORA= live, NTE contraction of Nocte, that means: The one that lives at night: The Nocturnal Watcher (El Vigilante Nocturno). 

MORANTE, The Nocturnal Watcher was born in the darkness of a dream, fantasy of Gabriel Nisisaki (first bass player of the band) who gives the name to the project and that altogether with Antonio Chávez decided to conform. 

MORANTE is a being who travels within your dreams while you sleep, seizing and manipulating them to it's whole will, without nobody alters it's conduct, without nobody gives orders to it, without spell, nor rite that can protect you. In words of the own Gabriel: "An ambivalent and dark being that lives in the darknesses, with the gift to affect the dreams, returning them violent or calm, nobody prevails neither affects it's conduct, without conscience between good or bad. With it's light it can guide us towards life or death". 

It is in 19th August 2000, Mexico City where the meeting of these five people takes place although at first it was not that way. 

Making music by the love they feel for it, without having political purpose, this guys wish to say something to the people who want to listen to them traveling by those dreams or those nightmares. 

The lyrics of the songs approach fantastic, epic, ontologic, spiritual and social subjects, in their auditive images appear demons, ghosts, dragons, the death and such humans, treating all of them like special beings of this multiverse in which we live; all this under Gothic Metal power chords. 

MORANTE is a band with an original proposal, that has taken it's music to places like: Cafe Rock Center, Rock Stock, Comic's Rock Show, T.N.T. en el Centro de Convenciones de Tlatelolco, UTA Underground, La Madre Diabla, El Circo Volador, Tianguis Cultural del Chopo, Radio City Hall, and the states of Puebla, Tlaxcala, San Luis Potosi, among others. Also it has participated in events of altruistic character as the Comunion Por La Existencia Festival that was carried out in the first edition in 2005 in benefit of the victims through Tsunami in Asia and in 2006 year in a new campaign for the affected ones by the Hurricanes Stan & Wilma in Chiapas, Mexico. 

In this time MORANTE has recorded two independent productions, first "Ausencia y Fantasía" (Absence and Fantasy) and the second "NEWRON O.S.T." for CLIPS Magazine, the first Soundtrack for an Mexican and independent comic magazine. Also the band collaborated with 3 themes for Soundtrack of the independent short film called La Tierra de Nod - El Estigma (The Land of Nod - The Estigma), as well also participated with the theme El Principio del Fin for the Tribute to Angeles del Infierno and in the Tribute to Luzbel II with the song Resucitando el Sentido. 

The new MORANTE's production called El Vigilante Nocturno (The Nocturnal Watcher) was released in November last year and contains 4 themes of the repertoire of the band in it's definitive versions as well as an unpublished theme in English.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morante">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.