Morak takes birth in 2004 in  Trento, IT, thanks to the efforts of Tris Meghistos.
The band immediately defined its own style, defined as black-gothic metal, with keyboards and dark sounds.
At the end of 2004 the first line up (All under 18) recorded its first demo tape “lost souls” and did lots of gigs around, which increased their popularity.
At the beginning of 2005 many members left the band. But Tris Meghistos persisted in his idea of music. His perseverance was finally rewarded when he found a brand new Drummer, Teufel. With Teufel and other new members the band worked on new pieces of music. But something wasn’t going as wanted.
At the end of  2006 the band seems to be finished: no more ideas and a bad climate in the rehearsal room were the reasons of the first split.
Teufel and Tris Meghistos decided not to give up.In few months they finally found some guys tough enough and in love with music, to restart the works.
Simon  took the place of first/solo guitar, while Fathaz took the bass.
Male vocals were gave to Troll, while Aradia, a young but talented girl, became the first female singer.
Later Lady Kaneeka, a previous chorist of the group, rejoined the group as well. Proudly Morak reborn from the ashes, releasing the amazing song “Ghost Age” in the first 2007.
Some times later the band won the special prize of the audience at the YmA(young metal attack challenge) organized by the famous association Metalparty.
The band did a lot of gigs around and played with the famous symphonic metal group Valkyre(second band of the wacken metal battle in Belgium).After a while Troll left the band, due to personal problems.

Morak decided to take in a brand new singer. Hersir, coming from the band Dark Season of Bolzano, IT, and gifted with an exceptional growling voice, showed a lot of entusiasm and professionality, so Morak decided to bring him in without questioning.
Now the band, finally with a strong line up, is planning to release a Full-lenght album before 2009 (autoproduced), containing 8 brand new songs

Official site: www.morak.it
Myspace: www.myspace.com/morakband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morak">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.