There are five artists with this name:

1) Morbid was a pioneering death/thrash/black Metal band from Stockholm, Sweden that formed in 1986.

Morbid was formed in Stockholm, Sweden in 1986. With Per Yngve "Dead" Ohlin as the group's founder and mastermind, they had a revolving door of members before settling on the line-up of John "John Lennart" Hagström and "TG" on guitars, Jens Näsström on bass and Lars-Göran Petrov on drums. When "TG" left the band, Ulf Cederlund took over. The band then recorded their debut demo, December Moon, at Thunderload Studios in Stockholm on December 5-6, 1987. This was the only recording featuring this line-up, as Hagström quit and Ohlin left for Norway to join the legendary black metal band Mayhem. The remains of the band tried to carry on, and brought in photographer John Scarisbrick as a new vocalist. Scarisbrick happened to live near a recording studio named Sunlight, which would later gain some notoriety in death metal circles, recording bands like Entombed and Dismember. It was there that the band recorded their swan song, another demo entitled The Last Supper, in September 1988. The band faded as Petrov and Cederlund started Nihilist, which eventually turned into Entombed. Näsström later continued in the bands Contras and Skull.

Although Morbid only officially released those two demos, they gained a certain cult-status after their demise, most likely due at least in part to Ohlin's efforts with Mayhem, and the fact that he committed suicide in 1991. Both the demo-recordings and various live/rehearsal tracks have later made it onto vinyl and CD, on both official and bootleg releases.

2) A thrash metal band from Germany.
Country of origin: Germany. Location: Wolfsburg, Lower Saxony. Status: Split-up. 
The "Returning Impossible" demo was released in two different editions; one with black/white and one with red/white cover.
After the demo the band changed it's monicker into Sensual Impression and started playing progressive Metal, but never released anything officially.


3) a death/doom metal band from Dresden.

4) Raw Black Metal band from Colombia which released an album called Mundo Infernal in 2016.

5) Melodic doom/death metal band from the Dominican Republic. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morbid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.