Morcrof arose during December '92 ev as an ideological union of Caecus Magice (guitars) and Paullus Moura (bass). The band was formed in order to express through extreme Metal art something that evoked from within them. Something repulsive and inspirational, considered to perfidy in their lives... wishing to meet full freedom for reflecting all individual and hedonic ways of living as the truthful existence to be explored on philosophies about the human essence... Indulgence and conjectures!

At the beginning of '93 ev, the drummer Admissum (currently called Feralis) and the guitarist R'Bressan identified with proposal of the band the roots in the first compositions. At this year Ludwick Schölzel also took over the vocals in order to record the reh '94 called "A Future Not So Far", presenting in this tape 10 chaotic Brutal Death Metal symphonies but with very bad sound quality. The tape sold almost 100 copies only in Brazil and eventually some live concerts and good reviews have been retrieved.

In the year '94 ev, Caecus Magice and Admissum left Morcrof due to some personal differences and consequently have been substituted by R'Matheus (guitars) and B.Gênes Hajj-Ahriman (drums). The latter brought the morbid influences to Morcrof by culminating the composition of "Nihilism (Prophetic Conjecture)", returning on stage for one more live concert as the final of this year presenting this new line - up. The following year saw the departure of R'Matheus and the replacement of Pétros Nilo (from Necronoiser) together with Naitsirch C'Bontus (keybards). These changes brought the debut DT'96 "Scientia Ab Mortuus". This demo-tape presented 2 hymns plus a live bonus cover of "The Forest N'Gai" by Rotting Christ. Morcrof did some concerts including the cult "Cold Weather Underground Fest - I, II & III" at 1995 / 96 & 97 respectively, the "Evil Prayer To The Knowledge" at '97 ev, and another great ceremonial around the São Paulo State.

In `98, B.Gênes Hajj-Ahriman was kicked out and Slaughter (also from Necronoiser) entered to play drums but not corresponding to the expectation, hence departing after a short time. For his replacement, Paullus Moura assumed drums just for record the DT'99 "Peragere Humum Et Semem Terrai Abditae". In this second demo 7 tracks were presented that had very good reviews throughout the dark scenes from America, Europe and Asia, awaking interest of labels and inviting for participation in some compilations.

In the middle of 1999 ev, Ad'Lung assumed the drums and supported with dignity for 1 year and in this time he did all gigs at the first semester of the year 2000 ev as the ceremonials made at Cordeirópolis, Jundiaí, Cotia, São Paulo and Bauru towns. However, Ad'Lung left after all these festivals and has been substituted by Feralis (ex-Admissum) who returned to Morcrof to record one track for the CD "An Braziian Tribute to Rotting Christ" under Gravadora Rec. He also recorded the DT'01 "Alesh" that was out under Demonion Prod from Hellas, with 63 minutes through the occult, presenting 3 tracks recorded in studio plus 8 live bonus track extracted from gigs still played with Ad'Lung. With a stable line up, Morcrof completed some more gigs at 2001 ev for promoting the DT'01 "Alesh", finishing the tour with the recording of VHS'01 "Alesh Ceremonials".

So, at the beginning of 2002 the CD'02 "Apeiron (Trinitas Primitiae Opus)" was released under Mutilation Rec, presenting all hymns recorded in the 3 previous official Demo Tapes (i.e. DT'96 "Scientia Ab Mortuus", DT'99 "Peragere Humum Et Semem Terrai Abditae" and the DT'01 "Alesh"), mastered and re-mixed from the original formats. It isn't a simple album but a great epic that resumes a decade of Morcrof's existence. The album comes with full coloured cover that explains all stages of the band's existence. In the same year, 7 new symphonies were composed, made on a temporal and conceptual way, in the deep valleys of the primordial abyss of being. They were recorded during the 6th of October and can be found in the informal and unofficial Reh'02 "Arques". The sound is rough without the participation of Naitsirch C'Bontus and Ludwick Schölzel, presenting in this reh. tape all hymns composed for the next album that will also be released through Mutilation Records.

Nowadays, in the year 2003 ev, Morcrof are divulging the Advanced Promo Track "Equilibrium Of Fohat" in CDr and cassette format under Erinnys Production - licensed by Mutilation Records, plus 3 bonus tracks; The "Fourth Knight Of Revelation" taken from CD "An Braziian Tribute to Rotting Christ" and unedited live versions of the hymns "Buried Alive Existence" and "Nihilism (Prophetic Conjecture)". At this time the new CD'03 is almost finished and will be called "Machshevet Habriá (Myths And Conjectures Of Creation)". Released again by Mutilation Records it will consist of 9 conceptual odes wrapped with occult and mystical themes, blending erudite passages with real extreme Metal aggression.

Band homepage: http://www.morcrof.hpg.ig.com.br/_morcrof_e.htm <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morcrof">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.