Mordatorium is a death metal studio project from Illinois, USA, originally conceived in late 2007 by guitarists Andrew Oosterbaan and Michael Moibenko. The two worked regularly and wrote material for the project, but failed to complete the band's line-up before dissolving the next year, with Moibenko having lost 
interest in the project. In 2009, Oosterbaan decided to record and release a self-titled compilation album which included several original songs as well as renditions of cover songs that the band had played during their time together. Using sampled drums and one cheap microphone, "Mordatorium" was recorded in 
September of 2009 and released digitally on the band's Last.fm page in October.
Though the album gathered little attention, the music and the sound inspired Oosterbaan, who over the next year set about writing a follow-up- this time with completely original material. The second album would be titled "The Dark Crusade", it's title track being an elaboration of a previously unfinished song 
not included in 2009's "Mordatorium". "The Dark Crusade" was self-recorded and produced in the summer of 2011 and released in October. The release of "The Dark Crusade" was facilitate by the incarnation of self-run independant label Exorcist Records - seeing a physical release of the album and selling Mordatorium's music exclusively through bandcamp.com.
Following the release of "The Dark Crusade", Mordatorium played their first show as a live band in August 2012, involving a revolving lineup of musicians accompanying Oosterbaan on various songs. After the one-off live performance, work began on a third Mordatorium release. The third album is to be 
titled "Raw" and is as-of-yet planned to be a double-album, including both a full-length disc of new original music, as well as a compilation disc containing re-recorded tracks, covers, and bonus material. Regarding "Raw", Oosterbaan says "this time I am drawing a lot more influence from Swedish death metal bands I 
enjoy, and as a result this album will consciously have a more traditional and old-school sound and style to it, though not entirely. There will be a healthy dosage of my personal style and it will definitely still sound like Mordatorium. As of now [October 2013] the songwriting and arrangements are nearing completion 
for the original material, and the recording process will begin as soon as everything is finished. Also, this time around I have much better equipment to work with, so the sound on it should be awesome! Stay tuned and thank you for your interest and support." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mordatorium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.