More Than Hate is a band from Lisbon, formed in September 1998. When it first started the band was made up of : Miguel on the drums, Pranxas on the bass, Alex on the guitar and Fuck on vocals. In June 1999, the first demo, with 5 songs, was recorded at the Estúdios Margem Sul (Margem Sul Studios). The original lineup remained until the first third of the year 2001, when a need in the band was filled - a second guitarist. Rui came in on guitar. This new lineup didn't last long though (about a month), as Alex left to follow another project. In June 2001, 383 Records invited them to take part in the portuguese hardcore compilation Royal Flush. The invitation was gladly accepted and  two songs were recorded - 'The Way' and 'One Word' - for inclusion in the lineup of the compilation.

Right after recording, there was a period of no activity, as Miguel had to stop playing for professional reasons. The band had no drummer. Even though Paulo was already on the books at the time, the band only got together again to practise in September, already with the new member. Paulo also plays in Painstruck, which reformed the sound of the band (a metal drummer will always be a metal drummer!). Some songs where put aside, some where reworked and work started on newer and more aggressive stuff.

Although the band was happy with the new sound, something was missing : a second guitar. And so Paul (feedback advisor) joined the band in February 2002. At this point, recording a new demo entitled 'World of Waste' was considered to introduce the new sound and formation. Overhead Studio in Linda-a-Velha was the place chosen to record, working with Vegeta who produced the album : five songs, two of them new, where recorded. Finally, and after almost a year away from any stage, More Than Hate was back. The event, held in Loures, was the release party of the Royal Flush compilation in March of this year. The opportunity was taken to release the new demo.

Since all this happened , Rui (guitar) and Paul (guitar) left the band, for diferent reasons, both replaced by one mighty guitarist who caries on the torch. 

More Than Hate is activly playing concerts these days and seems to end up playing with most of the bigs when they're in town.

Hardcore Still Lives! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/More+Than+Hate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.