There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Morgana is an Italo-Eurodance artist. 
2) Morgana is an 80s female fronted epic heavy metal band from Italy.
3) Morgana is a power metal band from Italy.
4) Morgana is a Lithuanian death metal band formed in 1990

1) Morgana is an Italo-Eurodance artist. Her real name is Teresa Bonacina.
When she was 7 years old, she started listening to soul and dance music on the radio. At the beginning her mother was worried because Morgana did not like play with dolls or with the other children. Few years later she understood, that her daughter was not a stranger but rather gifted girl with a real talent for music. With her mother's help,  Morgana started attending a special music school where she professionally developped her voice. At 15 years of age, she started singing with a local band. She loves big and crowded places, she is very interested in photography, and her faovurite color is green.

She met italo producer Mirko Dalporto and recorded the singles "C'est Cupidon", "Come Back To Me", "Ready For Love" and "Don't Give Up".
She also recorded the hits "The Colours Of My Dreams", "Melodies", "When I Dream Of You", "Feel The Night Away" among others.

Her first important release with S.A.I.F.A.M. Publishing Group was the single "On The Run", since then she recorded many tracks such as "To My Heart", "Can I Help You Baby" or "Never Gonna Make" and became one of the most popular artist on 21st Century Records label. 
Recently Morgana was featured by Ken Laszlo for the single "Maybe A Lonely Night".
Many vocalists as Annerley Gordon, were actually featured by the Morgana projects besides Teresa.

In 2008, Morgana recorded the tracks "Killa" and "Turn It Into Love".

2) Morgana was an 80s female fronted epic heavy metal band from Italy. Formed in 1985 in Italy (Chieri (Turin), Piedmont). 
Last known line-up: Roberta "Morgana" Delaude - Vocals, Dino Juele - Guitars, Fulvio Bosio - Bass, and Claudio Ercolani - Drums.

3) Morgana is also a power metal band from Italy. The band formed in 1995, released one album, "Angel" in 2001.
Members:Marco Mesemi - Vocals, Christian Borgoglio - Guitar, Alberto Ronchi - Guitar, Massimo Colla - Bass, Maurizio Colla - Drums and Gianluca Bottazzi - Keyboard.

4) Morgana is also a Lithuanian death metal band formed in 1990 and had realised 3 demos: "Live To Death", "Hospice" and "Bonanza" in the early 90s.
Band members: Darius Krasauskas – guitar/vocal, Vytas Švarlis – guitar, Kęstas Reimeris – bass and
Mykolas Gudelis – drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morgana">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.