1. Satanic Black Metal

TO CLEAR THINGS UP, the band name Morgh was a name that we had just come up with by putting random letters together. IN NO WAY, SHAPE OR FORM IS "MORGH"(the bands name) TAKEN AFTER THE FARSI (persian) WORD FOR "BIRD"! we are not persian, we do not speak farsi. so DO NOT relate us to the name of a bird... the farsi word "morgh or morghe" had NO INFLUENCE on the name of our band. as far as we are conserned, Morgh doesnt mean anything. if you are from the middle east or what is persia then think whatever you want..... Morgh has no definition and to us it doesnt mean bird, or hen, or chicken.....PS we aren't changing the name!.... V ~

MORGH was originally started by guitarist/ vocalist "V" in october of 2007 as a solo black metal act. over the years V did colabs with other great musicians such as Atle Nygard, Grimnir (blodsgard,NO), Trent Lee (wrath, trentaur, animal uprising, NO). In 2008 Norwegian vocalist Atle Nygard came into MORGH for the 2008 demo "the beginning" and later left in early 2009.
..
In December 2009 V decided to move MORGH into a more depressive and atmospheric sound for its first ep "A Cold Trip" (on sale for $10)after "A Cold Trip" was released MORGH took a turn back into the realm of black metal releasing the single "Ashes" with guest singer Baal. Since the release of "Ashes" songwriting for morgh couldn't get any better and a new album is to be expected for the winter of 2010.
..
In fall of 2010 Baal joins the band as a secondary singer and Keg (also in glorg) became the new drummer. The trio decided to take the band to a whole new level starting with the sound. Morgh has taken the left hand path to spread the message of satan. Soon in December 20l0 Morgh releases full length album "Through Idol Eyes". After recording of the album Both Baal and Keg part ways with V to persue other projects and career choices. Once again Morgh is a one man army, and still one hell of a satanic force to mess with. as of now there are plans to move Morgh deeper into a more evil sound, even though "Through Idol Eyes" has been the most extreme Morgh album so far. V has other plans to push things much much farther...

2. Black Metal horde from Lublin, Poland.
http://morgh.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morgh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.