Morgoth is a German death metal band that was formed in 1987 by Rüdiger Hennecke and Carsten Otterbach in Meschede. Originally the name "Cadaverous Smell" was used and the band played grindcore / noise style. When Harry Busse joined the band they renamed themselves to "Minas Morgul". In 1987 the band settled on Morgoth when singer and bass-player Marc Grewe joined the band. The name was derived from the epithet of the original dark lord Melkor in J.R.R Tolkien's Middle-earth Legendarium. They recorded the "Pits of Utumno" demo on four tracks in 1988, which eventually led to the band being signed with Century Media, which had just started.

In 1989, Morgoth recorded their second demo "Resurrection Absurd" in a twenty-four-track studio, which was released by Century Media in the same year as an EP. The band then toured Germany in support of Pestilence and Autopsy. "The Eternal Fall" was recorded shortly after the tour finished, which was quickly followed by a second tour with Demolition Hammer and Obituary. Grewe stopped playing bass and Sebastian Swart joined as the bass player.

In February 1991, the first actual full-length album was recorded in the Woodhouse studios, titled Cursed. To promote the album the band supported Kreator and Biohazard on a US tour and another European tour with Immolation and Massacre. Most of the band then relocated to Dortmund. Morgoth took a break then and only to return in 1993 with the album Odium. More touring followed, with Tankard, Unleashed and Tiamat. Nevertheless most of the band members started to lose interest in an active music career and ventured in other directions.

Eventually a third album was recorded, Feel Sorry for the Fanatic, on which they incorporated more and more industrial influences. A tour followed the release of the album, with Die Krupps and Richthofen. The band broke up in 1998.

Today they are deemed as one of the most influential bands to the German old school death metal scene.  They reunited in 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morgoth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.