There are numerous artists under this name:

1) Morgan is the name of an 1970s English progressive rock band. 

2) Morgan (born Marco Castoldi on December 23, 1972, in Milan) is an Italian singer, songwriter, composer and multi-instrumentalist.
3) Morgan is a performance name of American singer and songwriter Morgan Kibby, also of White Sea and M83.
4) Morgan (Morgan Nicholls), was the bass player for Senseless Things and Vent 414, and has recorded a solo album.
5) Morgan is also the name of a drum and bass artist.
6) Morgan was an obscure psychedelic artist, or a band, of the late 60's.
7) Morgan is the name of a horror punk/psychobilly band from Mexico.
8) Dave Morgan - singer
9) Morgan is a Spanish rapper.
10) A Canadian Country duo

1) Morgan is also the name of an English progressive rock band which released two albums in the '70s: Nova Solis (1972) and The Sleeper Wakes (aka Brown Out, 1973).

2) Morgan (born Marco Castoldi on December 23, 1972, in Milan) is an Italian singer, songwriter, composer and multi-instrumentalist. During his teens he played the piano, performing solo a repertoire including songs by artists such as David Bowie and Japan. In 1991 he formed Bluvertigo, along with Andrea "Andy" Fumagalli, Sergio Carnevale and Marco Pancaldi (later to be replaced by Livio Magnini). The band made a trilogy of albums (often referred to as la trilogia chimica, the chemical trilogy), the first one of which was Acidi E Basi (1995), followed by the successful Metallo Non Metallo (1997) and Zero(1999). After the release of the Pop Tools compilation in 2001 the band went on hiatus for an indefinite period. Morgan made numerous collaborations and guest appearances on albums of artists such as Franco Battiato, Subsonica, Cristina Donà, Mauro Pagani and many others. He also appeared in Franco Battiato's movie Perduto Amor. In 2003 he made his solo debut with the concept album Canzoni dell'appartamento, a collection of finely arranged songs equally inspired by italian songwriting and such diverse sources as classical music and Pink Floyd (the album includes a cover version of the Pink Floyd song If, re-worked into italian language). For the work on this album Morgan won the Premio Tenco award. In 2004 he wrote the soundtrack for the Alex Infascelli movie Il siero della vanità. In 2005 he released a remake of the Fabrizio De André 1971 album Non al denaro, non all'amore né al cielo, inspired by the Edgar Lee Masters' Spoon River Anthology. His latest album, titled Da A...ad A, was released in June 2007.
3) Morgan is the performance name of American singer and songwriter Morgan Kibby. Her songs are a fusion of her classical background (piano, cello and opera) and darkwave/industrial music. Her debut album And The Moon was Hungry... was released in 2005, and then remixed and re-released by her short lived band The Romanovs in 2007. Morgan's is currently producing music as White Sea, and is a member of M83, performing some vocals and keyboards on their albums Saturdays=Youth and Hurry Up, We're Dreaming.
4) Morgan (Morgan Nicholls), was the bass player with Senseless Things, then Vent 414 and very briefly for Billy Duffy. He went on to record a solo album called Organized and played with ex Senseless Things drummer Cass Browne in Delakota. In recent years, he has played as part of The Streets live band and with Muse during their live shows. He has also worked with Gorillaz and Lily Allen. 
5) Morgan is also the name of a drum and bass artist. Little more is known at this time. Morgan can be found on a compilation titled "Drum 'n' Bass Conspiracy" on Shadow Records.
6) Morgan was an obscure psychedelic artist, or a band, of the late 60's. A track by by this Morgan ("Of Dreams") has appeared on the compilation "30 Seconds Before the Calico Wall".
7) Morgan is the name of a horror punk/psychobilly band from Mexico. They were featured on Puerta13's compilation called "Una Entrada Al Infierno".
8) The Singer Dave Morgan who released the album MORGAN in the 70's became guitarist with ELO and is the writer of the songs on ACROSS The DIVIDE which has been linked to this Italian artist.
9) Morgan is a rapper from Zaragoza (Spain), with his first solitary album "Alas de cera" being released in 2009. 
10) Morgan is the Canadian Country duo Lindsay & Jacqueline Morgan. They released one album in 1972  as Jacqueline & Lindsay and one album in 1979 as Morgan. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morgan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.