Morgan le Fay

Formed almost organically, and swimming against a raging torrent of tuneless, faceless, synthetic dance grooves, Morgan Le Fay came into being at a time when it appeared that the age of the singer-songwriter was about to realise an untimely and unwarranted demise. At the wheel, Brereton Preen, a distinguished songsmith with an eye for the lyric and an ear for the tune. A true balladeer with many a thing to say and a voice demanding to be heard above an endless cacophony of manufactured claptrap.

Surrounding himself with a glorious array of similarly creative craftspeople, Preen and Morgan Le Fay soon built up a reputation as a truly outstanding live act throughout their native northern England. The debut album soon followed, "Glororum.and the people we know". A musical treasure. Beautifully crafted. Wonderfully perceptive. Fifteen songs of love and hardship played to perfection. At long last we here had a true collective of like-minded writers, musicians and performers who had the confidence in themselves to examine musically the human condition. Melodic, harmonious, creative and distinctly different, these gems ranged from the bitter to the bittersweet, and all the way on up to the uplifting.

The Internet soon took them to Europe, and then shortly afterwards Australia and the USA beckoned. A highly successful tour of the latter saw "Glororum" selling in abundance during 2002. Resting on laurels and plaudits however was not for Brereton Preen, and so it was that our heroes returned and began work on the much anticipated and endlessly requested follow up.

Morgan Le Fay produce irresistible, organic and earthy acoustic tones. An invigorating blend of the Ambient, the Popular, the Folk and the Country, lovingly underpinned by an unashamed reliance on significant voices, guitars, pianos, fiddles and accordions.

On July 12th 2004, Morgan Le Fay release their debut single "The Catscratch Crown" via The Coelocanth Recording Co. Ltd. Their second, long awaited album, Beautiful Land was released in February 2005. First hearing suggests that Preen's eyes and ears remain consummately intact. Morgan Le Fay will be touring extensively throughout the UK to promote both releases.

The songwriter has not quite yet left the building. Real music remains. It is in the safest of hands.

Morgan Le Fay are 'Fastboy' Robinson and Brereton Preen. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MORGAN+Le+FAY">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.