There are couple of bands named Moria:
1. Moria (Salinas, CA) was originally named Breakneck and started out as a joke hardcore band in the spring of 2003. After a few shows we decided to rename the band Moria and started writting more metal songs. Moria focused on combining the heavy and brutal elements of metal with the ideals and integrity of hardcore. We recorded 3 demos (2004, 2005, 2007) and 1 full length album called "No Light Ahead". We also completed 2 full U.S. tours and 4 west coast tours. We accomplished so much more then we ever intended and we thank everyone's support through the years. Thank you again.  We are playing a special reunion show on JANUARY 16TH, 2010 in Santa Cruz. 

They regrouped as a new band called Helm's Deep 

A few of the bands we have shared the stage with..Invocation Of Nehek, Rifles at Recess, Undying, Kid Gorgeous, Scars of Tomorrow, The Judas Cradle, Nodes of Ranvier, Bleeding Through, Caliban, Reflux, Suffocate Faster, Bury Your Dead, As Hope Dies, With Dead Hands Rising, Nehemiah, Dead to Fall, Martyr AD, Seventh Star, A Life Once Lost, The Red Chord, Psyopus, Animosity, Into the Moat, Ion Dissonance, The Red Death, The Warriors, Hoods, Despised Icon, Sinai Beach, Himsa, Suffocation, Darkest Hour, All Shall Perish, Embrace The End, Death Threat, Pale Horse, Sleep Terror, The Final Battle, Through The Eyes of the Dead, Suicide Silence, Elysia, AGATG, Knights of the Abyss, White Chapel , Impending Doom, Emmure, The Tony Danza Dapdance Extravaganza, Contra, The_Network, Winds of Plague, Antagonist, The Taste of Blood, Job For A Cowboy, The Final Burden, For The Fallen Dreams and more...


2.
Moria (Bulgaria) - In the end of 2002, Werwolf meets Khan Kubrat - a man with the same ideas and music orientation as him, and after discussing the real results from such an initiative like founding a black metal band and recording an album, they decide to try. They record the demo “Turning Of The Sorrow” in the winter of 2002/2003, which surprisingly brings them a contract with Counter Attack Productions for releasing two albums - several months later the first full-length album of Moria comes out - “Mountains In Sorrow”. After less than a month Werwolf leaves. Several months the line-up is suffering new changes, and finally Werwolf returns as the new drummer is the talented Julian Borisov and Gormoth Iscariot comes as second guitarist.
Written by Dominus from bgmetal.online.bg

MOUNTAINS IN SORROW (tracklist):
1.Turn the Sorrow
2. The Dawn is Crimson
3.Into the Crest of Thy Mountain
4. Raventhrone
5. Blood Red Harvest <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.