In December 2001, at Linares (Spain), a new group was born named as Blacklash, where several artists ideas joined in the search for a dark, melodic Death Metal sound for a studio project. By August the project was renamed Morior Ergo Sum after Descartes latin quote: I die therefore I live. No sooner had the band moved to Granada (Spain), and in this period is recorded the first home-made demo of M.E.S. Sine Nomine, which had a great acceptation in the underground scene. After several changes to the line-up, M.E.S recorded his first professional work, Inheritors Of Avernus, in May 2004, edited under Dans Crypt Records label in January 2005. Inheritors Of Avernus has been distributed all over the world for many distros and labels like: Necromance records (Spain) - Xtreme music (Spain) - Grotesque productions (Spain) - Unmatched brutality (USA) - Goregiastic records(USA) - Paragon records (USA) - Displeased records (Holland) - Amputated vein records (Japan) - Obliteration records de (Japan) - Comatose music (USA) - Great white north records (USA) - Obscure sombre (Canada) - Grindethic records (UK) - Retribute records (Italy) - Nepherex records - Dark music records - Coagulated records (Italy) - Ibex moon records or Brutal bands (USA). During the studio sessions, two members left the band for incompatibilities with the new bands work which is in development at the moment and professional reasons. At the moment the line up is as follows: Angel Pira del Castillo (Guitars), Daniel Lara (Guitars), Raul Fernandez (Drums), Javier Salas (Vocals), Isaac Rodriguez (Bass), Manuel Avila (Keyboards). 

Up to now Morior Ergo Sum have performed numerous concerts in the underground scene, being some of the most important on the period 2003-2004: Broken Head Fest at El Tren (Granada) with Avulsed, Canker, Human Mincer, etc. Or the Hard Times - Metal4all Concert with bands like User Ne and Exhumed day, in which the band grew in popularity up to being one of the best-known Black Metal bands in the area by 2004. M.E.S. has shared backstage too with international bands as Brutus, Mortal Decay, Beheaded or Catamenia, consolidating a forceful and aggressive show that fully surpasses the recording of their first album of a high quality production, that has had a very good welcome. Part of this good acceptance can be seen in reviews and interviews gathered all over the globe: The Metal Observer Webzine - The Gaulent Webzine - The Great Nothing Webzine - Brutalism Webzine - Bloodcifery Webzine - Psychosis Death Webzine - Shapeless Webzine - Metal Rage Webzine - Kuravilu Webzine - Vampire Magazine - Jedbangers Webzine - Pitchline Webzine - Metal Mayhem Webzine - Darksoul VII Webzine - Friedhof Webzine - Burning Abyss Webzine - Burning Misery Webzine or The Metal Circus. Now that the labels contract has expired, M.E.S. is at the moment finishing the recording of a demo at Studio as an advance of what will be their second album, a conceptual opus based on the hell described by Dante, in its magnificent work, "The Divine Comedy. The style of Morior Ergo Sum can be said to be melodic Black Metal, although it goes through the most varied influences, including Death and Thrash Metal, Doom or Gothic. Dark atmospheres, huge symphonic keyboards and aggressive, thundering guitar riffs, together with Rauls blasting drums are mere glimpses of whats to be found inside every M.E.S song. The vocals could be a dark approach to deep feelings of anguish and an attempt to bring forth the rupture of a human beings morality or spiritual beleifs, or simply to show a fatal, passionate attraction to the darker side of life. Morior Ergo Sum aim to achieve their musical aspirations by developing their talents and techniques, and by spreading their work as far as it will reach. The passion for playing live is something universal in all the band members, who also share that extremely pure and enthusiastic dedication towards their music.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morior+Ergo+Sum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.