There are three bands with the name Morior:

1. Morior is death metal band from Travnik, Bosnia and Herzegovina, formed in 2004.

2. The Morior from Cyprus:   Morior is a thrash metal band influenced by various metal bands such as Slayer, Kreator, Metallica, Megadeth, and many more... Morior are: Miltos Strouthos (Vocals, Lead/Rhythm Guitar) Markos Theocharous (Lead/Rhythm guitar) Panayiotis Chrysostomides (Bass guitar) Andreas Tapa (Drums) Morior is a Thrash Metal band which was formed in January of 2007 when Panayiotis (Bass guitar) and Andreas (Drums) met with Markos (Lead/Rhythm Guitar) in some early jam sessions at Garage Studio. The aim of the band back then was to play cover songs before they started writing their own material. For the next few months the three members auditioned many vocalists and guitarists but none of them was able to bring in the missing element to the band. In June 2007, Miltos Strouthos (Lead/Rhythm Guitar) was asked to join the band after a successful jam session. The four of them then began forming a list of cover songs from various artists such as Metallica, Iron Maiden, Megadeth, Ozzy Osbourne, etc. The band's first live show with a full play list was on the 28th of March at Apostolou Markou Lyceum with guest vocalist Damianos Roussos (Guitarist of Moonlight Illusion). After that three more live shows followed but were not very successful because the band didn't have a permanent vocalist to work with. After several debates the band decided to appoint Miltos as their permanent front man. Now the band, with Miltos on guitar and vocals, seems to work very well both in the studio and on stage, judging from the crowd's response over the next few live shows. The band has one complete song called "Mask of Hypocrisy", which was already played live. The band is currently working on new material both covers and original songs and has several upcoming shows planned. 


3. Morior from Russia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/morior">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.