Morning Again is an American metalcore band from Cooper City, Florida. Formed in 1995, they are known for their vegan straight edge ideas. The band relocated to Fort Lauderdale in the late 1990s, they were a "sister band" to Culture, often switching members after one had left the other. Members went on to play in other bands such as As Friends Rust and Dead Blue Sky. They released their final record for Good Life, a split with 25 Ta Life, and went back to Europe to tour. The group ultimately decided on breaking up by the end of the tour in the fall of 1998, partially as a result of Wylie's growing interest in pursuing Eulogy Recordings. Their final release was To Die a Bitter Death on Immigrant Sun. In 2000, Wylie's own label released a compilation of both Immigrant Sun Records 7"s as The Fallen... The Few That Remain. 

The band has since done multiple reunion shows. The first was in 2000, where they played under the name "The Cleanest War", which featured Damien Moyal back on vocals as well as the original line-up. The second was under the name "Hand of Hope" in 2002, where they had merchandise made specially for the show in Orlando, Florida. In 2003, a compilation of Hand of Hope and Martyr, Hand of the Martyr, was released by Eulogy Recordings. The line up for that show was Moyal on vocals, Wylie on guitar, Ervin on bass and Wes Keely on drums. On April 22, 2011 they performed at the Groezrock festival in Belgium, with Kevin Byers on vocals. For this show they also had unique merchandise made. In 2014 they played at the Belgian hardcore festival Ieperfest in the H8000 area. Moyal was also on vocals during this show. In 2015 they toured Japan and played some shows in the States, including This is Hardcore in Philadelphia, PA.

In July 2018, it was announced that the group rejoined once again and were recording new material (to be issued as an extended play through Revelation]). The Survival Instinct EP was released on November 9, 2018. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morning+Again">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.