Rather than a story, Morrighan’s Cry has been the name of a great song, ringing through the heads of ten young people for more than three years already.It all started in 2002, when after having played in the ska-band godVERDOMME; Styn, Sander and Maarten were released out into the field again for any band to woo them. Styn and Anneleen met by a mutual friend and discovered that they had a similar idea for a band they wanted to start, a gothic metal band. Therefore it came naturally that they started working on this idea and making music. But it takes more than a lovely female voice and catchy rhythmic guitar riffs; so a little later, Sander joined them to enhance the temporary vocal/guitar band with bass play. Later, Maarten came to the rehearsals too, rolling in a thunder of drum-play, rejoining his ex-colleagues and forming a scratch that is the base for the current band. 

A friend of Maarten, Kevin, often came to check out the rehearsals too. Rather than to stall the band, his continuous messing around with the microphone exposed his aptitude to bring more kick into the music and his roaring grunt was very much pleased by the band members. He too was enrolled in Morrighan’s Cry. Attempting to complete the setup and to bring a more gothic and melodic undertone to the music, the five sought a keyboard player which they found in Sandrino. Ultimately, they invited Stefaan, who had started a band called Aeon of Pain with Stijn and Sander at the time, to a rehearsal to lay rhythm under their riffs and thus made the last step towards completion of the band setup. 

But the story went on… Sandrino didn’t stay with Morrighan’s Cry for long, so again they started looking for a keyboard player. Stefaan introduced Björn to the band, a friend he knew from secondary school. Björn proved to be the right man for the job very soon, always bringing new keyboard melodies on his way through the same songs, creating unique songs time after time. The band was complete to continue making music and to eventually perform gigs too… The first five gigs were in May and September 2004, and the band made it as far as Antwerp. A beautiful future already lay in front of them. 

Also in September 2004 though, problems occurred for Maarten, putting him for the hard choice between Morrighan’s Cry and the other band he played in, Skulltula. It is not hard to understand that he chose for the latter, since he was co-founder of it. For a while he helped the others though with rehearsals and gigs, and to find another drummer too: Bram, quitting Hatred in Sevenfold drummer. At that time, Morrighan’s Cry began a tough journey through school exams, holidays and other practical restrictions preventing them to play. The problem was not only to teach the repertoire to Bram, but most of all to make new music in the meanwhile. Bram brought a different, fresh style of playing; but above all, he perked up very fast, which was a big help to solve a lot of problems. The present last chapter of the band is bittersweet… After hitting the studios to record the demo, Anneleen announced her farewell to the band members. One of the ‘founding fathers’ left the band, leaving a sore feeling behind… 

There were two opinions as how to continue: either to go on by six, inclining to melodic black metal; or to search a new singer, which wouldn’t be easy. In December 2005 then, Stijn started a relationship with Valerie, who appeared to be quite a talented singer herself. After a couple of other auditions, she did hers and the decision to crown her new female singer of the band came soon. In the light of this, Morrighan’s Cry had their demo cd ready by half March 2006, which was a great stimulus to go on making music. The band still goes on as seven friends, working on a project together; creating music inspired by their musical diversity. 



http://myspace.com/morrighanscry

http://www.morrighans-cry.be

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morrighan%27s+cry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.