1. The band was formed in 1997 by Peter Altenhoff (guitar) and Alexander Kaul (bass), who were soon joined by Christian Pchling (drums) and Phillip Kuratscheck (vocals), 2 members that had just left Vanitas. The band name was then still Human Slaughter and Martin Klinke completed the band on second guitar. The band started writing grindcore tracks with German lyrics before Phillip left and Alex took over the vocals. The band moved slightly more towards Death Metal and decided to change the name to the current one. About a year after the change Matthias Beck was hired as the new bass player (and additional vocalist), and shortly afterwards Alex swepped down from his activities in order to go back to his old band Devil's Cry. Mid 99 Andreas Noll took over his position, creating a lineup that would last until 2001. Again the musical style changed, back to Grindcore this time. Matthias Beck was temporarily forced to give up bass in 2001 due to injury, and Martin Klinke even left the band around the same time. In November of the same year the band had enough material for a first Mini-CD, and it was called "Necrobutchering", and finally released in March 2002 in a limited number of 500 copies. After a few shows, Andreas Noll left the band before the MCD was released so Wolfgang Mudder stepped in as replacement. But after Andreas helped Wolfgang getting to know the songs he came back to his decision, so the band had 2 vocalists splitting the vocals. Sadly, Christian Pchling left the band during the course of the year. After a few weeks Peter brought up the idea to use a drum computer, but at the end of the year, finally a replacement drummer was found in Wolfgang Ostermann, drummer of Jesters Tear. At a show in May 2003 the band met Frank, who was willing to fill the long-vacant second guitar spot. After hard problems with the management, Mortal Agony left their manager and putted their second Album "Receptive for Chaos" out. Peter who had big problems to get employed had to leave the band Autumn 2005 and is living and working now in Austria. Summer 2006 Norman got in contact with Frank and was very interested in playing guitar for Mortal Agony. In Decembre 2006, after problems with his old band Never die Alone Norman finally decided to leave them and joined Mortal Agony.

2. Mortal Agony was a Finnish hardcore metal band from Kuopio, Finland.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mortal+Agony">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.