Metal Thrashing Madness est. 1986

The band MORTAL TERROR was founded in 1986 in the small town of Hann.Münden midst of Germany
fueled and inspired by everything that was faster, harder, louder and wilder than traditional Heavy Metal and
Hard Rock to that point. Now active for nearly (unbelievable!) 35 years, this band has been going through long
times and some changes but still continues to write it's own little chapter in the big book of underground metal
history.

The current line-up consists besides the original members stefan kunth (lead voc.) and dirk wieland (g./voc.) out
of jürgen grauer (dr.), gerret geilich (b.) matthias van geldern (g.).

By the release of several demo tapes and steady live appearances in the early years (with partly long gone
legends such as despair, s.d.i., tankard, toxin, atrocity, disharmonic orchestra, eternal dirge, postmortem, assorted
heap, crack up and many more) MORTAL TERROR could achieve a good reputation as an energetic thrash
metal outfit and a strong live act, enjoying some kind of cult-status first of all in their wider home area, where
MORTAL TERROR can be seen along with Bands such as Reaper or Toxin as the “fathers” of the local Metal
Scene, who inspired lots of younger musisicians und bands.

According to this MORTAL TERROR signed to german d&s records in 1993 and released the albums „The
Evolving Self“ (1994) and „Posthuman“ (1996) which proved a massive musical development and added more
death metal influences to the classic 80’s Thrash Metal Roots which shaped the sound of MORTAL TERROR
from the very beginning.
After a few line up changes and the according problems Mortal Terror restarted in 1998 with a new demo-cd „A
Strange Harvest“ which shows as well as it´s follow-up „Graveyard Anthems for unhappy Teenagers“ that
MORTAL TERROR had still something to prove and got lot of positve resonance by the fans and press as
well.

After original guitar player Jens Hertig has left the Band in 1999 old friend Mathias Keyser (ex-Miscarriage,
Mis.Divine) completed MORTAL TERROR in 2003 back to the original 5-piece strength. This results in the
remarkable 2004 self released Album „We Set Your Thoughts on Fire“ which shows a fresh and aggressive
band. The music became more rough, straight, the songwiriting got more focussed and creates some kind of raw
and rebellious atmosphere, that reminded some even of long gone glorious days. German online mag
powermetal.de stated: “This is almost as if “Kill em all” has been recorded again.”
Another 6 years later MORTAL TERROR released “We Are The Damned”, which is first of all proving the
musical progression of the “new” line-up but then 2016 Album “Creating Destruction” remarks a “more than
ever” return to the Thrash and Speed Metal Roots of the very beginnig, sounding as fresh, energetic and
ethusiastic as if it was 1986 again and became for sure one of the most successful releases in Mortal Terror
history.
Now the follow-up “Bite Of The Underdog” will take everything another step further: more focussed song
writing, more speed, awesome artwork by Hell D., more energy, more riffs, raw, natural and organic but still
well balanced sound – to say it in short: authentic pure 80's inspired heavy Thrash Metal (spiced up with a little
shot of Death Metal and some rebellious Rock'n'Roll“ vibes) for everyone who is into real and genuine old
school Heavy-, Speed- and Thrash Metal which on the other hand does not sound like all the nowadays “purecopy-bands”, who will never reach the originals.

Furthermore “Bite Of The Underdog” will be finally the first ever Vinyl-Release in band history ever!

The Underdog is here – and it's ready to bite!

Discography :
Humour Is A Matter OF Taste (Demo 1988)
United Nations (Demo 1989)
Guts and Diseases (Demo 1990)
The Functional Autonomy of Motives Demo 1991)
The Cognitive Triad (Demo 1992)
Idiosyncratic (Demo 1993)
The Evolving Self (D & S Records 1994)
Posthuman (D & S Records 1996)
A Strange Harvest (Demo 1998)
Graveyard Anthems For Unhappy Teenagers (Demo 2001)
We Set Your Thoughts On Fire (Self Produced 2003)
We Are the Damned (Self Released 2010)
Creating Destruction (Unholy Fire Records 2016)
Bite of the Underdog (Self Released, coming January 2021) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mortal+Terror">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.