1. From ECUADOR, MORTERO is one of the most important latin american hardcore bands.
Their 3rd album VENENO NEGRO  (2009) is now on stores.

More info: www.myspace.com/morteroecuador

2. New Metal Band from Serbia.
Members:
Dániel Kiss - vocals
Tibor Kozma - guitar
Róbert Ozsvár - guitar
Szabolcs Szecsei - bass
Adrián Burcsár - drums
Hometown:
Backa Topola/Kikinda
Biography:
In the year 2007. the band Mortero was only an idea of four young men (Tibor Kozma, Adrián Burcsár, Huba Tölgyesi, and Szabolcs Szecsei). After recording an instrumental demo, Marko Pećanac and Danijel Kiss joined the band, in the same year. Mortero was born. The bands aim was then and still is, to perfect their musical taste, and to play quality gigs. The band operates with metalcore, hardcore elements and fusionates it with funk, reggae and folk elements.
The bands first live performance was in January (2008) and from that day the band had played in most of the remarkable clubs of Vojvodina, and performed on some of the most remarkable festivals of the region. Mortero was always complimented for their approach of playing live, and music.
In 2008, the band went in to Positive family studio, to record two songs for a compilation (DEMOnstracija mladosti). The aim of the compilation was to support the work of young bands of Vojvodina. In the same year Mortero played on the finals of GBOB (Global Battle Of the Bands) finishing as the runner-up in the end. The band received positive commentary from the jury, who were among the most important people of the music business of Serbia. But second place is second place…
In April of 2009 the band was in Chainroom studio with the purpose of recording their first album. Shortly after having finished the work, Huba Tölgyesi left the band. But the replacemenet arrived quickly in the person of Stanislav Šaršanski (a.k.a. Buca). Currently the band is writing new songs, booking shows, and plays in several cities. Catch them live!
Contacts: morteroband@gmail.com
Album download:
http://www.mediafire.com/?4nw8zpbnsgfbspq <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mortero">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.