Mortuary I.O.D. is a death metal band from Dronrijp, the province of Friesland.

After trying out for some years with different musicians and different names, in 1999 the line-up is transformed into the five-piece still known today, which consists of Arnout Visser (guitar), Germ Reitsma (bass), Franke Kooistra (guitar), Douwe Talma (drums) and Johannes Keekstra (vocals). In this time the members come up with the name Mortuary I.O.D.

"I.O.D." stands for "Image Of Death", the title of an antique song, which can be found on the first album, but more about that later.

From that moment on, the band gets seriously into creating music and many gigs are being scheduled. For instance, without even having released anything, in 2000 Mortuary I.O.D. shares the bill with the likes of Cannibal Corpse.

In 2001 recordings are being done in the Landscape Studio in Gauw, Holland, under supervision of Jan Switters and from those sessions the "Promo 2001" is released, a pre-listen of the album the band is planning to release that same year. The promo contains two songs and is spread worldwide to all kinds of magazines, radiostations and gets great response. Now the disc is completely sold out.

In March 2002 the delayed debut album "Distorted Massacre: Fear The Madness" is unleashed and also gets good attention. This album now is sold out as well. It leads to quite a big amount of gigs, also foreign ones, for instance one with Dew-Scented in Germany. In August Mortuary I.O.D. is on stage at Dokk 'em Open Air, a Dutch festival, with a.o. Paul di'Anno and Holy Moses.

The band gains popularity in Friesland by getting a lot of airplay on the provincial radiostation Omrop Fryslân, features in the leading newspaper Leeuwarder Courant, several TV appearances and of course the massive live-reputation that seems to be spoken about a lot.

Fall 2003, Johannes is fed up by some less attractive parts of being in a band and decides to quit. Then, in November, after several auditions for a replacement, the air is cleared and Johannes rejoins, just because both parties seemed crap without eachother.

A fresh start is being made and the band does more great gigs, which get them across the Dutch borders more and more. Mortuary I.O.D. plays a lot in Belgium and Germany. Recently, France is added to the list as well. In May 2004 the band is the support for the Dutch gigs on the "Lucifer Incestus Terror Tour" of Austrian death metallers Belphegor.

The MCD "Damnation" is recorded in April and should be released very soon. On "The Bonehunt" is a guest-vocal appearance of Martin van Drunen (Death By Dawn, formerly of Pestilence, Asphyx, Submission, Comecon, Bolt Thrower).

June 2004, finally the band gets their chance at Wâldrock, the biggest metalfestival in Holland, which is in their homeprovince Friesland. In the line-up are furthermore none other than Exodus, Testament, Finntroll, Within Temptation, Transport League, Cannibal Corpse, Monster Magnet, Slapshot, Hate Breed, Fear Factory, My Dying Bride, Death Angel, Twisted Sister and Cradle Of Filth. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mortuary+I.O.D.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.