Several artists have shared the name Morton:

1. The metal band MORTON (Ukraine) originates as the heavy/power-metal studio project of the respected Ukrainian sound-producer Max “Morton” Pasichnyk. The primary style that was chosen for the project was a blend of classic heavy-metal and modern power-metal. Later, with the band's growth, the style was greatly transformed and gained individuality, but even now heavy-metal basis can be felt in each song. 

The debut MORTON release was called “Grimoire”. It included five tracks and was composed, performed, recorded and produced by Max himself. The material was spread freely in the internet. 

While recording the songs, Max gathered the live line-up and MORTON project began it's transformation into MORTON band. Playing live, intensively rehearsing and working on the new material, MORTON gained respect as one of the hardest-working and fast-growing Ukrainian metal bands. 

In November, 2010, MORTON presented their debut music video “Sleeping King”. The videoclip received lots of positive feedback from both listeners and musicians all over the world. To secure and enhance it's success, the band has concentrated on the recording of their full-length album, which took Winter and Spring to finish. 

At Summer, 2011, MORTON debut album "Come Read The Words Forbidden" was released in Ukraine and Japan. Supporting their new release, the band has presented their official live video for "Brotherhood of Light". 

A few months later, in October, "Come Read The Words Forbidden" was released worldwide by AFM Records. In November 2011, it was also was released in Russia, thus finally covering each and every corner of the Earth. 

MORTON is about to release their new music video "Weeping Bell" and then will enter the studio to record their second full-length album.

2. Morton (Germany) was an experimental/dark metal collaboration between Zoltan Carnovash (Mathias Grassow, Nord, Anam Cara) and Edward Longshanks. 4 demos are known of: Lycantroph (1996), Surtalogi (2000), The Norsefolk (2000) and Poltergeist Over England (2002)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Morton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.