Founded in 2009 by Marc Doblinger in the sleepy lower Bavarian village Zeilarn (located in the Passau region), Mortal Infinity would only take one year to form it's original line-up including Sebastian Unrath on lead guitars. Shortly after playing the first live shows the first EP „Eternal War“ was recorded. While being a raw and unrefined demo tape, this EP would gain interest in the local metal scene, gain traction for the band and make them push forward to record their debut album „District Destruction“ in 2012. With notorious thrash master Jörg Uken from Soundlodge Studios on board, the band was able to find their own style and sound creating a straight forward slap-in-the-face thrash record, spicing it up with various death elements. The record being a success with fans and european metal press, the band moved on to play greater shows than ever before.
Although the debut record being a huge sucess, the following years would become a struggle for the band:  Various line-up changes, making it very difficult to musically progress, almost brought the band to and end around 2014. With new band members Alexander Glaser on bass and Adrian Müller on Drums, but no rythm guitar player in place, the band decided to give it a final shot, entering the Studio Suicidal to record a final record in 2015.
While still being thrashy in the heart, the 55 minute behemoth „Final Death Denied“ exeeds it's predecessor in complexity and song writing. With overwhelmingly positive feedback, many of the the ten songs – often clearly beyond the five minute line – became a permanent entry on every Mortal Infinity setlist.
With Sebastian Brunner filling the gap on rythm guitars in early 2016, the band finally found its desperately needed stable line-up, that lasts until today. On this platform of confidence Mortal Infinity is stronger than ever: Forged at Deep Deep Pressure Studios under the hand of Lukas Haidinger, their fourth sonic attack is locked and loaded for September 2019, ready to surpass their predecessors once again.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mortal+Infinity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.