MORTAL GOD (Finland) was properly formed in August 1992. During the autumn they composed their own material and rehearsed a lot. In December that year they recorded their first demo entitled "Impurity". The demo was recorded in their rehearsal place with a 4-tracker but still it sounded decent enough and gained them publicity throughout the UnderGround-scene. The response for the demo was unexpectionally very positive and it was spread some 500 copies. 

After the release of "Impurity", for the starters of the year '93, the band created some new songs that really put the old ones into shame. 

The progress between the old songs and the new ones was huge! They incorporated some Death Metal -influences and some technical stuff to their KREATOR-style thrash and their style was founded. 

Next year went into hard rehearsing and being in the compulsory military service. New songs were composed and rehearsed all the time. 

In July '94 they recorded a new promotape which included 2 new songs namely "The Strangest Life" and "Creed", both of them showcasing the new, more aggressive style of MORTAL GOD. 

After the promotape was recorded the band felt so confident that they decided to record 10 songs for their forthcoming release. It was recorded at Astia Studios in August '94 and the tape was christened as "Letting Moonlight Into You". With this tape they started to look for a deal and in couple of months band got a deal proposal from Belgian RUMBLE AUDIOVISUALS. Then started a long waiting period. It was not until the end of '95 when the deal was finally singed. But nothing happened. And waiting continued... And continued... During the winter of '96 it became obvious that the label had no money to release the CD, so the band decided to release 7 songs of the 10 as a demo which was released under the same moniker as the CD was supposed to be. The demo was released in late August of '96. 

"Letting Moonlight Into You" demo was promoted widely throughout the world and gained more and more positive feedback and gave the band more trust to what they're doing. The demo is nowadays sold out from the band. The band have spread the demo some 700 copies. 

All the time they have made and rehearsed new songs and devoloped their style into more distinctive direction. But after many setbacks the band more or less "freezed" after the Raven Realm-gig on 18th May '96. Of course the demo was released but the band wasn't functional anymore. Some rehearsals now and then but nothing important (no gigs etc...). 

THE BAND IS DEAD BUT NOT BURIED. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Mortal God (for. Avenger) is a band from Goleniów, north-west Poland formed in October 2007. As well as the line-up the music made by the band was changing, evoluting from thrash metal or even punk inspired songs to typical black and death metal with loads of blast beats. First demo was recorded with leading female vocals, after departure of the singer changed to mainly guttural or screeching growls.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mortal+God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.