Mose Giganticus is an American synth punk  / heavy metal band founded in Bensalem, Pennsylvania  in 1999, and currently based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Led by songwriter, vocalist, programmer, drummer, and keyboardist Matt Garfield, the band is augmented by an array of additional musicians for live performances, including Zac Hobbs (touring guitarist), Brooks Wilson (live and studio guitarist/bassist), and Joe Smiley (live and studio guitarist). Stylistically, Mose Giganticus is most notable for the incorporation of vocoder and synthesizer into traditionally "guitar-centric" musical genres, as well as for Garfield's prominent use of a modified Roland AX-7 keytar  in their live performances. The band has released two albums with a third due out in Summer 2010 and have toured North America extensively, including the Yukon  and Alaska, regions rarely visited by rock musicians.

Garfield, drummer in several Philadelphia-area hardcore punk rock bands, began the project as a solo electronic home-recording project in 1999, playing few occasional live performances. His focus on the band intensified years later, in 2005, with a significantly revamped sound rooted in hardcore punk, while still maintaining elements of electronic music.[1]  This culminated in the 2006 debut full-length album, The Invisible Hand, a concept record based around humanity's relationship with technology. Initially released on Richmond, Virginia-based Valiant Death Records, the record was followed by several US tours in 2007 with fellow electronic bands Abiku and The Emotron. During these early tours, Garfield performed solo, layering live vocals and keyboards over pre-recorded backing tracks. A compilation featuring remixes from 23 artists of the track My Machine off of The Invisible Hand was later completed and scheduled to be released on Valiant Death Records in early 2008, but failed to materialize when the label folded unexpectedly due to financial troubles.

In 2008, Mose Giganticus released its second record, the Commander! EP, as a split label release on Slanty Shanty Records and The Cottage Records, who'd also reissued The Invisible Hand after the demise of Valiant Death Records. Based on Garfield's fascination with the work of Nikola Tesla, the EP focuses on the betrayal of Tesla by fellow innovator and former employer, Thomas Edison, and the subsequent bitter rivalry surrounding Tesla's development of alternating current technology, known as the War of Currents. The record was extensively supported through touring, including trips that took the group and touring mates The Emotron into the far reaches of Northern Canada and Alaska.

A third record, the full-length Gift Horse, is now complete and due to be released in the July of 2010 on Relapse Records. Gift Horse displays a decidedly heavier sound than previous releases and centers on the topic of Christian mythology. The record's content features lyrics written from the perspective of the Old Testament Christian God and the deposed angel Lucifer addressing one another in the mounting tension of the impending Battle of Armageddon. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mose+Giganticus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.