There are several bands using this name:
1) Mosh Is an electro producer from Alberta, Canada who began producing in 2011

2) Mosh is a stoner/power-rock band born in 2005 in the city of Oporto(Portugal). In October of that year, they requested the experience and knowledge of producer Mário Barreiros, the number one guy in the country, to record their first EP "The Damage Done".
Between 2005 and 2006, they played several gigs, two of them with greater exposure: Festival Vilar de Mouros (the oldest festival in Portugal) on the main stage, with bands like Soulfly, Moonspell, Cradle of Filth,etc and also played with Ill Niño as a warm up act, in Oporto.
In the year of 2007 they started a small tour of clubs/bars all over the country and did some dates in Spain. On the same year the band recorded their first video for the single "Where are you now" that premiered on MTV Portugal and is also available on the MySpace profile of the band. As a direct result to all the hype surrounding the video they were one of the five nominated bands for the MTV's European Music Awards, representing Portugal in the category of New Sounds of Europe. They were also included in the Hit List of MTV Portugal for several weeks and this gave the band even bigger exposure resulting in many interviews for national radios and newspapers.
2008 was a year to re-think the MOSH formula and focus on writing new songs for the album that saw the light of day on January 2010.
Meanwhile in 2009 they continued with the heavy touring playing almost everywhere in the country, opening up for Alabama Thunderpussy, Firebird, Valient Thorr and also had some dates in Spain.
In June of 2009 they were the support act for Marilyn Manson in Oporto, a performance highly praised by portuguese press.They are currently promoting the new album called "Bastard" hoping it becomes a breath of fresh air in the portuguese rock scene.
Members:
Pedro Lima - vocals
Miguel Azevedo - guitar
Miguel Ramos - bass guitar
Alberto Cardoso - drums
3) Mosh is a grindcore band from Australia, established in 2001 by 2 members - A.C. and B.J. It went on to success in the local underground scene, and featured the singles “Blood on the Keyhole” and “Dirty Sideburns”.
Currently working on a follow-up album, the new single “Scared By a Duck” is available on Myspace at www.myspace.com/realmosh. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mosh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.