There are eight (8) artists by the name Moth.

(1) 

MOTH was formed in a Cincinnati, OH garage in the early 90s by front man and tune-smith Brad Stenz with guitarist "The Billionaire" joining shortly thereafter. Drummer Kevin Hogle made his appearance with the band shortly after Virgin Records fall-out and bassist Eli White followed in tow.

The band has released five full length records including a major label release on Virgin records. They have also done live performances on Craig Kilborne, AOL, and Chicago's Man Cow Show, numerous national tours and a UK tour.

MOTH have been critically acclaimed by Rolling Stone, Blender, Spin, Billboard, Alternative Press, Transworld, Stuff, CMJ, The New York Times and The Los Angeles Times.

They are currently signed to Hey Domingo! and their latest release is "Immune to Gravity."

(2) A Copenhagen based post-punk band consisting of members from other Danish groups such as Melting Walkmen, Chainsaw Eaters, Torpedo Zombies, The Rotten Leprechauns and Selvhenter. The band can be described as dark, atmospheric post-punk with strong synth melodies, The band released their first E.P., a self-titled 7" consisting of an intro and 3 tracks. Even before the release of the E.P. the band gathered attention and was played on national radio.

The band has since released another 7", with two tracks, named "Luminol". 
After a year of extensive live performances, they are soon to release their first full-lenght album on Mass Media records. 

(3) There is also an electronic/IDM musician by the name of Moth from Rochester, NY.

(4) A guitars-'n'-bass-'n'-drums-'n'-chorused-vocals effort from Fukuoka that throws a lot of other sounds (organ, mellow hip-hop beats, etc.) into the mix for giggles.

(5) A Sludge/Doom band from Melbourne, Australia.

(6) MOTH is a Denver based metal band . Moth is a fairly new idea and identity in the metal world. That idea is in it's beginning stages of creation and the direction is open to many different paths. After establishing a base idea with demo tracks released back in 2011, the first main path Moth will step down is their full length release "Endlessly In Motion". The band's 8 song debut album is a large step beyond any production the group had previously taken. Aggressive vocal attacks meet with the brutal yet melodic guitar rhythms and driving percussive base provided in the drum section with an added atmosphere heard in the synthesizer.
 Together all these create a unity in passion between melody, percussion, life, experiences, influential ideas, joys, frustrations, aggression, artwork and an attempt to look deeply inside these things. One of the main ideas behind Moth is to create a space, community, a field of existence that many can share as one. More than just a group that several people listen to. A living breathing connected consciousness . How this will be attempted has not been fully realized yet as it has only begun.

(7) MOTH Deathstep / Heavy Bass music.

(8) Los Angeles-based artist collective MOTH: music that is genre-bending, experimental, and ultra creative. The group consists of 4 members: Kooze, Atom, Julia, and Theo Myst who all come together for song-writing, story-writing, and production to create MOTH's authentic music. Drawing on raps and alternative hip-hop, as well as spacey vocals, electric production, and heavy beats and grooves, MOTH always presents crazy versatility with every project. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Moth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.