There are multiple artists under the name Motherhood:
(1) A Fredericton, New Brunswick-based alternative rock band formed in formed in 2010

(2 )A Birmingham, England-based soul-pop/RNB artist formed in 2011

(3) A Germany-based psychedelic fusion band prominent in the late-1960's and early 70's, sometimes titled The Motherhood 


(1) Motherhood (Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada)
Free tracks as well as purchasable tracks can be downloaded at: http://motherhoodmusic.bandcamp.com

Bio:

Motherhood is an avant-rock trio from Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada.

A trio of deep-thinkin’ rippers, New Brunswick’s Motherhood achieve one very rare and uncomplicated feat: they sound EXCITING on record and stage alike. Unlike so many awkward experiments by peers and ‘adventurous’ contemporary rock outfits, Motherhood’s music explodes with the kind of charm and exuberance you can’t just order. No, it’d take years of late nite couch-crumpled conversations, bathroom stall barfs and parking lot laughter to achieve the kind of chemistry these three exude. If we’re calling this art rock, it’s because, in 2020, commitment is a precious art indeed. And make no mistake, Motherhood is all about commitment.
Brydon Crain (guitar, vocals), Penelope Stevens (bass, keys, vocals) and Adam Sipkema (drums) have been linking arms and running into rock n’ roll oblivion repeatedly for the past decade. Like cowpunk without the jadedness, dust rock without the drymouth; a thinkin’ people’s union for the fearless 21st.


Members:
Adam Sipkema - drums, vocals
Brydon Crain - vocals, guitar, keys
Penelope Stevens - vocals, keys, bass


(2) Motherhood (Birmingham, England)

(3) Motherhood (Germany)

Psychedelic fusion and jazz band led by saxophonist and film scorer Klaus Doldinger, who later split into the bands Passport and Hallelujah
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Motherhood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.