There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Formed at an irrelevant date, Mothra is a black metal band belonging to the Wolven Circle of the Black Moon.  They have released one demo and a split with Satanic Abortion.

2) Mothra, polish mathcore band, is destroying stages since 2000/01 with Piotr Koryzma (vocals), Daniel Szwed (drums), Andrzej Burzynski (bass) and Pawel Rosiak (guitar) on the board. After first few months of existence, band recorded their first promo single, entitled 'Sugar'01'. After that, musicians focused on touring and writing new songs, which appeared on 2004's 'Demo CD' - six-tracks EP, recorded by the band itself. It wasn't an awesome sounding material with killing produce work, but even without it, listeners had found rarely presented kind of energy joined with mathematicly combined and still melodic playing. The following years were just a lot of gigs and a lot more of interesting and inspiring people met, which helped the band to realize some of their ideas. It was Mothra's breaking period, as the material for their full length debut album has been composed. 'Planet Decibelian' was released by young polish label Red Swallow on May 20th, 2006. It contains 11 brutal sounding - math combined songs and gets enthusiastic reviews at all the places of appearance. The band is touring constantly with most of recognized and appreciated bands appearing nationwide (Modern Life is War, Maroon, Born From Pain, Omission, First Blood, Sunrise, Nyia just to name few), working on a "one of the best live acting chords in polish area" headline.

3) Japanese experimental punk noise band. 
Line up: 
Mothra: Bass, Voice 
Noz: Metal Junk 
Juni-toku (Screloma): Metal Junk 
Kojima-pro: Electronics

4) A Canadian noise/hardcore punk band.

MOTHRA was created by Liam and Allan in November 2004 as a bass and drums duo, and was quickly transformed into a 3-piece in February 2005 when Karla brought synth and vocals into the mix. Drawing on a broad range of influences including indie rock, punk, hardcore, metal, and prog, MOTHRA has found a sound to call its own. Full of energy and bursting at the seams, MOTHRA rides a fine line between chaos and beauty.

Hard work, dedication, and focus has paid off for MOTHRA since their inception two years ago. The band recorded their self-titled debut at The Hive Creative Labs studio in Vancouver with Colin Stewart (Hot Hot Heat, Black Mountain, Pretty Girls Make Graves), which has received outstanding reviews. MOTHRA has played shows extensively in the past year, both locally and throughout Canada. In 2006, they played a showcase for Canadian Music Week in Toronto in March, and played 25 shows on a six-week cross-Canada tour in Sept./Oct. The energy, passion and technical wizardry demonstrated by MOTHRA in their live show has turned heads in the Vancouver music scene and beyond, resulting in the development of an ever-growing fanbase. Above all, the band will continue to concentrate on what is most important - the creation and performance of unique, genuine, energy-packed music that they believe in. 

http://www.myspace.com/mothralovesyou

5) An American rock band.

Mothra was a band which featured vocalist Jasan Radford and lead guitarist Levon Sultanian. Also part of the band was Mike Doling (ex-Snot, ex-Soulfly), Roy Mayorga (ex-Soulfly) and John Fahnestock (ex-Snot). the band changed it name into Abloom

6) Formed in 2004, Mothra comprises Chris McCabre, Susie Q, Charlie Khan, Gareth Davey, and Bor Zakonjsek, an ensemble fanatically dedicated to the creation of alternate reality.  They sculpt a multitude of instruments into sounds which cross genres and evade definition; rhythmic utterings and menacing undertones lace the tender and hypnotic soundscapes where mania, lust, paranoia and sensualism run amok.

7) A New Zealand band, see https://mothraband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mothra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.