There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) Mother Earth was a 90s British acid-jazz outfit based in London. 
2) Mother Earth was an eclectic American blues rock band formed in 1967 in California and fronted by Tracy Nelson. 
3) Mother Earth was a 90s American thrash metal band. 
4) Mother Earth is an instrumental power trio based on the Isle of Mann. 

1) Mother Earth was a 90s British acid-jazz outfit based in London, formed by long time Acid Jazz associate Bunny and basically comprising Matt Deighton on guitar and vocals, Bryn Barklam on Hammond organ, Chris White on drums and Neil Corcoran on bass. Shauna Green was the lead singer on the first album. Prior to their debut live performance where they played alongside another debutant band Jamiroquai, they started out as a studio project in 1991 with Paul Weller (on "Almost Grown"), James Taylor of the James Taylor Quartet and Simon Bartholomew from the Brand New Heavies as contributors.
In total they released three studio albums and one live album. After they disbanded in 1996, two retrospective albums were released in 2001 and 2004.
Deighton subsequently played guitar for Paul Weller's band, and temporarily replaced Noel Gallagher in Oasis when he quit on tour in 2000.
Since 1996, Matt Deighton has released several critically acclaimed solo-albums.
Bryn Barklam went on to record with The Chords and play organ for the Buzzcocks at the Sex Pistols reunion gig at Finsbury Park. His current band is an instrumental trio consisting of organ, drums and guitar named Captain Hammond.

2) Mother Earth was an eclectic American blues rock band formed in 1967 in California, fronted by Tracy Nelson.
Nelson, who hailed from Madison, Wisconsin, began her career as a solo artist, but formed the Mother Earth ensemble after moving to San Francisco. The group performed at the Fillmore West in the late 1960s alongside Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, and Eric Burdon, and was included on the soundtrack to the 1968 film Revolution. The group signed to Mercury Records, recording four albums. Mike Bloomfield played guitar on their 1968 release Living with the Animals and Boz Scaggs was a member of the group on their 1969 release Make A Joyful Noise. After the first album, Mother Earth moved their base of operations from the Bay Area to a farm outside Nashville. Their manager and producer was Travis Rivers.
After two LPs with Reprise Records & one with Columbia Records the ensemble continued to tour as Nelson's backup band but did not record anymore. They finally called it quits in early 1977. Tracy Nelson meanwhile began recording as a solo artist in 1974, issuing LP's on Atlantic, MCA, Adelphi and Flying Fish.

3) Mother Earth was a 90s American thrash metal band. 

4) Mother Earth is an instrumental power trio based on the Isle of Mann as of the early 21st century. The group's use of geometrics, biomass and physical algebra led to an almost unanimous disregard for their output, until a wayward Niagara Falls installation artiste documented two of their tracks as part of his piece 'Never Records' at Liverpool's 2010 Biennial.
Sitting somewhere between a mid-career Dio (sans vocals) and a middle-eight-fixated Foreigner circa smash long-player 'Four' (sans solos), the non-identical triplets that make up the Channel Isle's best hope of being placed on a musical map have posted their digital-analogue-digital transcodes at http://motherearth.bandcamp.com, aiding them in fending off any lambasts at their derivative manipulation of 'classic rock' motifs.
Mother Earth continued their rash of northwestern United Kingdom appearances well into the bleak late-winter of 2010. For example, the band were announced as opening support act for roving Californians Abe Vigoda on their Liverpudlian, leg set to take place on the 15th of November 2010.
They followed up this onslaught with several appearances in people's lounges & front rooms into the milder months of 2011.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mother+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.