Motosierra is a Rock and Roll band from Montevideo, Uruguay, considered as one of the most prolific in South America, so far this XXI century, and a Latin American underground scene exponent.

Profile of the band

Sound

Their raw and aggressive sound, along with the stamp of the live shows (swinging from chaotic to obscene, euphoric and visceral catharsis at the time) nourish the achieved renown that music-journalists and other musicians have enlarged describing Motosierra as "the wildest Rock and Roll band from South America."

Lyrics

This characteristic, along with the topics of their songs, strongly contrast with the whole of uruguayan bands included in the National Rock. Violence, rebelliousness and self-destruction in an enviroment where it is used to sing about mundane subjects, reflecting to the point of exhaustion the average Uruguayan flat and monotonous life. They are proper lyrics of an anthem against boredom, tiredness of the monotonous life and desapassionate music. Foul loves, damned women and sex; whisky, drugs and excesses; satanism, blood and revange are proper of the Motosierra's lyrics.

Influences

Considering influences, can be mentioned Turbonegro, Hellacopters, Supersuckers, Zeke and Dwarves, as well classic bands such as Motörhead, Iggy Pop & The Stooges, New York Dolls and Dead Boys; altought, it is worth mentioning that the list could be even more extended. We should agree that the the heritage of bands is the same that carries weith in the whole new generation of bands around the world. Even so, the influence falls on the most significant ones, those which contribute to the self-destructive attitude (like Iggy Pop & The Stooges and Dead Boys), to the defiant sound and, not less important, to the meaning the cultural response takes with the band, among other aspects. It can be also mentioned the influence of Chicos Eléctricos and Cross, but within the framework of Uruguayan Rock. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Motosierra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.