His award-winning discography demonstrates his innate musicality that shines through on every release, whether it be his chart-topping productions, sublime remixes or self-written songs. 

While his talents have been recognised commercially, Mustafa Gündoğdu has maintained his underground pedigree by consistently pushing the boundaries of electronic music, curating an illustrious catalogue that remains evergreen. 

Mousse T.’s first step in the music industry was playing keyboards for the relatively under-the-radar band Fun Key B, where he began his experimentation with synth- pop, and funk infused sounds. Hungry for more, Mousse T. was also already forging his solo career, opening his own recording studio and DJing on Hannover’s growing club scene. Along with his own productions, Mousse T.’s writing and producing credits read like a who’s who of the music industry, having worked with artists such as Roy Ayers, Byron Stingily, Andreya Triana, Bootsy Collins and Randy Crawford to name a few. 

With all his hard work solidifying the foundations for his career, Mustafa took the plunge in 1993 and launched Peppermint Jam records, a pioneering label still renowned for its unique uplifting house music and melodic acid jazz. By the late 90’s Mousse T. was a household name, dominating the charts with releases such as ‘Horny’ and Tom Jones  ‘Sex Bomb’. This success was followed by an Ivor-Novello Award, Grammy Award nomination and three studio albums, most recently releasing Where Is The Love in 2018, a charismatic and sophisticated reminder of his gifted abilities. 

His other recent achievements include appearing as a judge on DSDS (Germany’s Got Talent) and producing film soundtracks for a number of German titles. With no signs of slowing down, Mousse T. continues to be one of the most prolific producers in the game, putting his signature shizzle touch on tracks like Mike Dunn´s „If I can’t git down“, Horse Meat Disco´s „Love if you need it“, Flight Facilities ft. Channel Tres „Lights up“, Selace´s „Hooked on your lovin´“ and Davie´sTestify" „ to Spiller´s „Groovejet“, as well as releasing his own productions constantly, DJing across the globe with residencies at parties like Glitterbox and continuing to uphold the legacy of his own label, Peppermint Jam. 
Mousse T. is currently residing on the Glitterbox roster with Colluded Management. His recent gigs include playing at Hï Ibiza, Viper Room Los Angeles, Cavo Paradiso Mykonos, Amnesia Ibiza, Pacha Ibiza, Creamfields Festival, Cocoon Club Frankfurt, Loveparade, Rex Club Paris and Montreux Jazz Festival, with his live band. Whether it’s behind the decks or on the keys, with Mousse T. in control the night is guaranteed to be special.

His garage house track "Horny '98" featuring Hot 'n' Juicy (Emma Lanford & Inaya Day) on vocals reached the top of the Billboard dance charts in the late 1990s. His first album, Gourmet de Funk, was released in 2001, and it was notorious for featuring only jazz music, and no house tracks. In 2004, he entered the UK Single Chart with his song "Is It 'Cos I'm Cool?", which is featured on his second album, All Nite Madness, released in 2004. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mousse+T.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.