Mr. Death is a Death metal from Stockholm, Sweden. The members have been around for quite some time. Some of the members have played in legendary bands such as Treblinka, Tiamat and Expulsion. None of these bands are to be confused with Mr. Death though, which is a unique project. The music is straight forward, brutal old school death metal and played in the way we think death metal should be played and sound like.

Mr. Death was born in the beginning of 2007 but shaped up and became a band worth its name in January 2008 when the current line up saw the light. In March 2008 Mr. Death visited the legendary Sunlight Studio and Tomas Skogsberg for a short weekend recording which was to become the demo "Unearthing". Several labels did pay Mr. Death attention before they had a chance to make contact themselves and after a great consideration Mr. Death did choose Agonia Records as the label that would release "Unearthing" and the debut album "Detached From Life". "Unearthing" was just meant as a demo but "Detached From Life" will be the long sought after energizer that the death metal world has needed for almost 20 years. "Detached From Life" is clean, well shaved and dressed up for the welcoming of a rebirth of the energy that really released our minds the first time we saw the light of death metal.

In the past some of the members in Mr. Death have played together in different constellations, and everyone has a great deal of experience from various bands throughout the years. Combined, we have hundreds of live shows in our history. The combination of this, and the fact that we all know each other well and like to play together, makes us certain that we will deliver every time when we are on stage. The first show ever with Mr. Death (Club Empire In Ruins, Sweden, 2007) could as well have been the hundred one. To witness Mr. Death live shouldn't be like watching any random band; it's supposed to be a memorable experience. This is something that we take with us every time we enter a stage, and it's a natural thing for us, no matter the size of the audience. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mr.+Death">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.