There are three artists with the name MTM. 

 1)  MTM,is an Egyptian hip-hop band. They are considered the pioneering Egyptian rap crew, as they put Egyptian rap into the spotlight releasing two albums: Omy Mesafra (My Mother is Travelling) in 2003, and Telephony Beyren (My Phone is Ringing) in 2004.

Background
M.T.M is composed of three members who met in 1997 in Alexandria, Egypt. The group name comes from the initials of the first name of singers Mikey, Taki, and Mahmoud.
Mahmoud (b. 1981) and Mikey (b. 1980) both hold a Bachelor degree in Computer Science, and the youngest member Takki (b. 1982) holds a law degree.

Music career
The group launched its first album in September 2003, introducing eight songs including their hit song Omy mesafra (My Mother is Travelling). This debut music video was a successful start which identifies their style and positioning in the music industry. The video was expressing the original lyrics through a realistic farce yet fantastic treatment, which combine drama with fun in a solid build up. After a brief hiatus following the success of Omi Msafra, MTM is back near the top of Egypt's video charts with their new single "Zay Manta Ayez" (As You Like).
Their second album was launched in July 2004, Telephony Beyren (My Phone is Ringing).

Their success was marked by taking home the Best Modern Arab Act prize at the first Arabian Music Awards in 2004. Their albums enjoyed widespread success among the more westernized Egyptian youths, rather than the common Egyptian. They are spreading their word that it’s time for Egypt to change and become more “Westernized.” Their hip-hop music focuses on ways to better Egypt, socially and economically. Their lyrics bring a positive style to rap since they often "make fun" of the various issues in Egypt. One of their famous songs, "Lazem Bokra," goes so far as to make fun of Egyptians.

2)     MTM  is a boyband from Portugal that represented the country in the 2001 Eurovision Song Contest and ended in 23rd place.

 3)    MTM  is <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/MTM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.