There are several MU:

1. Dutch experimental/improvisational underground band from Rotterdam. The band started in 1978 after witnessing a Red Crayola/Scritti Politti performance in cafe "Heavy". The next day they bought instruments and called the band Mentally Unfit taken from Lou Reed's Billy. 
Soon Backstreet Backlash Records owner Peter Graute would join and the bandname was changed to M.U. or MU so the initials could be used in various projects like The Marijuana Users, More of the Unexpected, Mescal Umbra etc. 
After helping to build the Backlash Studio the band became the studio's houseband with Martin van der Leer as engineer/recordingmaster. 
The lp M.U. "Motion In Tune" 010 was the last reord to be released on the BackstreetBacklash label and it derived from various recordings. 
M.U. was active till 2012 the year their longtime companion Koos Ver A passed on. 
In the present Peter Graute, Wim Ver A & Steve Keen are still playing together and a new album is in the making. 

The original bandmembers are: Peter Mensingh (vocals/text), Peter Graute (guitar), Wim Ver A (guitar), Koos Ver A (†) (synth), Bob Knegt bas, Steve Keen (drums). 
Future bandmembers : vocals Teddy Treurniet (Mr. TnT) vocals Peggy Treurniet (Mr. Blueberry) 
Michel Faber (drums) Herman Smink (†) (drums) Martin van der Leer (engineer/recording), Frank Lievaart (engineer/recording)

2. MU was a psychedelic rock group that existed in the early 1970's & was formed by Merrell Fankhauser, whose earlier bands included Fapardokly & Merrell Fankhauser & H.M.S. Bounty. Reuniting with Jeff Cotton in 1970, Fankhauser then formed MU. In 1971, their first album was released and became a radio hit. Increasingly fascinated by legends of the lost continent of Mu, Fankhauser then relocated to the Hawaiian island of Maui in February 1973. Material for a second MU album was recorded on Maui in 1974, but not released until the 1980s on the two LPs The Last Album (Appaloosa, Italy 1981) and Children Of The Rainbow (Blue Form, US 1985). Mu disbanded in 1975. 

3. MU is a quartet (sax/piano/guitar/drums) born from the musician's own interplay. MU's approach is jazz-like, since their music arises always and only from collective improvisations, but in its flow echoes and grooves appear, spreading from funky to ambient, from psychedelic rock to blues, from jazz to minimalism.
Mu formed in Treviso, IT in 2002, and are:
Andrea Bolinelli 
Gabriele Bruzzolo 
Giacomo LiVolsi 
Andrea O. Martin 

WebSite: www.res-net.org

4. MU is a shortcut for the name Mutsumi Kanamori. She lives in the UK with her husband Maurice Fulton who makes the beats. She released two albums as "MU", Afro Finger and Gel in 2003 and Out of Breach (Manchester's Revenge) in 2005. In October 2010 she released her third album "Mutsumi" and changed her name to Mutsumi.

5. MU is an italian Jazz trio from Frino (VB), IT
Davide Merlino Vib
Dario Trapani Guit
Simone Prando Bass
Riccardo chiaberta Drum

www.mu-music.it

6. MU is a portuguese group that plays traditional european music. http://mu.com.sapo.pt

7. MU is a taiwanese artist who makes computer-based noise music that sounds like a data cd being played through your hi-fi. The album 'bbbunny!bbunny!!bunny!!!' was released in 2004 on V/VM Test Records. http://www.muchild.com/

8. /mu/ is a 4chan board that has also made several albums, most notably Doubles Market, and The Moses Spoken Word album.

9. Mu is a Canadian indie pop duo hailing from Vancouver, British Columbia, consisting of Francesca Belcourt and Brittney Rand. They self-released their self-titled debut EP in February 2014. soundsofmu.bandcamp.com

10. Mu is an alias of Michael Utherside a UK music producer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.