1. Mudslinger is a Death Metal / Metal / Progressive band from Krasnodar, Russia
http://www.myspace.com/mudslingermetalband

2. Mudslinger is Death / Doom Metal band from Oakland, California, USA

3. Mudslinger is a Metal band from Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
http://www.reverbnation.com/mudslinger

1.
Band was founded in spring of 2005. After four-year participation in one of metal band, the creative work of which greatly disappointed Sergei (Giutar) and Roman (Bass), they decided to create their own band. In general the favorite music and reference point for the musicians was the creative work of European (Scandinavian) melodic deathmetal bands. It gave the initial formation of the band style. And then the work started. The musicians introduced their material to each other, what was impossible to do in the previous band, because of stylistic limits and tastes of participans. All the material was recorded at home by Sergei (All guitars) and Roman (Bass, keys/drums programming, recording, mastering) in 2007. Besides creating and recording songs they were looking for sympathizers. It was very hard. They were "spying" at the concerts and rehearsals of other bands. They were searching for good musicians. They did our best to make them cooperate with us. At last they were a succes.

Now Mudslinger (RUS) consists of:

Sergei (Guitar)
Roman (Bass)
Dmitry (Drums)
Ilya (Vox)

2. Mudslinger was formed in the beginning of 2000 by known Bay Area death metal guitarist Dave Couch and long time bass player friend Lars Von Lowen. After a few months of trading ideas (and arguing over who could write the heavier riff), they got a practice space at Rehearse America in East Oakland, CA where they met with drummer Ronn Pifer who was practicing in a nearby room. The three clicked right away and began to churn out songs influenced by doom and old school death metal bands such as Trouble, old Celtic Frost, Black Sabbath and Bolt Thrower. When it was time to add a vocalist, they called up Juan Urteaga who worked with Dave previously in the progressive death metal band, Thanatopsis. With Juan added to the group they immediately went into Trident Studios (which Juan also owns and engineers) and recorded 6 songs, 5 of which became the first demo “Cover the Sun”. Cover the Sun was released in March of 2001 on their own label, Lord Slog Records and Mudslinger started to gig, playing their first show at the Pound in SF in support of Nevermore, Opeth, Angel Dust and God Forbid.
(from http://www.tartareandesire.com)
Current lineup:
Lars Von Lowen - Bass
Ronn Pifer - Drums
Dave Couch - Guitar
Juan Urteaga - Vocals
(from http://www.metal-archives.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mudslinger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.