A rapper out of Minneapolis, he has been described as lyrically abrasive. From his myspace,

"Self-described as lyrically "abrasive," Minnesota native Muja Messiah has verbally accosted his way into the national spotlight. "Since forever" is how long he dates his rapping career, but it wasn't until recently by way of his underground hit "Patriot Act" that Muja Messiah earned national notoriety. "The song's brazen critique of President Bush and American foreign and domestic policies — "I'm supposed to be threatened by al Qaeda when I was always afraid of America first, the birthplace of some of the worst terrorists on this earth… Should I blame FEMA or blame Halliburton? I'm'a push the envelope like Bush did the votes, like Bush sniffing coke, but hey, nobody's perfect" — are what landed him a coveted endorsement in December's VIBE Magazine as one of the "51 Best MySpace Rappers," a part of their first-annual nationwide survey"-.Minnesota Spokesman-Recorder

Muja Messiah’s latest single"Amy Winehouse" takes on Rihanna’s “Umbrella” while celebrating his city, shouting out Amy Winehouse and heeding advice from Russell Simmons. The track comes from Muja’s forthcoming MPLS Massacre which is slated for a mid-March release. While Muja is deep within a Minneapolis hip hop scene that has been caustically deemed college-rap, his voice rears songs that are blatently street-centric, pushing thought and innovation alike with his critical take on Bush’s administration (”Patriot Act”) and his M.I.A. “Paper Planes” mash. As of late Muja was listed on Vibe’s list of The 51 Best MySpace Rappers.-CultureBully

Mpls. Massacre, Vol. 1", a saucy mixtape style cd that touches on politics, thuganomics, and even dianetics. Muja Messiah just may be the next big thing so we fully recommend you jump on the bandwagon while there's still room- l’etoile magazine

The mixed-bag aesthetic on "Mpls. Massacre" is actually perfect for Muja Messiah. He's the rare rapper who knows inner-city violence first hand- but who also knows plenty about politics, socioeconomics and other topics popular in so-called backpacker hip-hop. Muja Messiah is, thankfully, the rare Minneapolis rapper not trying to sound like Slug.- Chris Riemenschnider- Star Tribune"
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Muja+Messiah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.