Mumm-Ra are an indie rock band which formed in 2000 in Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex, United Kingdom. The band consists of James New (vocals/keyboard/guitar), Oli Frost (guitar), Niall Buckler (bass), James Arguile (guitar), and Gareth Jennings (drums). Their name was taken from a character from the American 1980s animated television series, ThunderCats (who was a mummy of the Egyptian god Ra). In 2008, the band broke up after 7 1/2 years of playing music together.

In 2012 the band made their live return, before announcing a full comeback in 2013 with new material. New tracks "Technicolour", "Your Father's Son" and "Jeremy" were released across the year, with an 8 track EP titled Back to the Shore released on 17 February 2014.

The band described their music as "pop music that sweeps and sways and hopefully does justice to the music that makes us get up in the morning."

Their debut release in April 2006 was a limited clear 7" available on tour or online, consisting of What Would Steve Do? (demo) backed with Song E. Each copy came with a postcard signed by a band member.

Mumm-Ra's first release "proper" was the Black Hurts Day And The Night Rolls On EP.

The EP was received with favourable reviews and encapsulated the diversity of the band - from the unpredictable and schizophrenic Song B to the mystical fairy tale stylings of The Temple.

It was followed by the Out Of The Question single on October 23rd 2006, and What Would Steve Do? on February 19th 2007.

Mumm-Ra's impressive live performances have assured a rapidly expanding fanbase, having played support slots with numerous high profile bands including The Kooks, Fields, The Automatic, Jamie T, The Longcut and The Killers. Live favourites included set opener Now Or Never, closer Out Of The Question, She's Got You High and North Of France.

The single She's Got You High was released on May 14th, followed by the debut album, These Things Move In Threes on May 28th 2007.

On the 17th of April 2008, after 7 years, 11 months and 21 days of being together, Mumm-Ra decided their journey as a band had come to an end. However, the band mentioned through MySpace bulletin's that there may be a possibility of various members having new projects in the future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mumm-Ra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.