Murdershock is from Riihimäki/Helsinki Finland. They play a mixture of death, thrash and hardcore. The band was formed in 2005.

At autumn 2005 they started writing their first promo-cd entitled “The Deathsicktwist”. In February 2006 the CD was finished. At the time they started to look for second guitarist to join the band. In 6 months of searching they found the right guy and Jokke joined in Murdershock. After some rehersing, with Jokke, they started to write new songs for their second promo-CD "Inside My Insanity". During the recordings they faced problems with their singer and had to find a new vocalist to finish the recordings.

Oku joined the band, from a band called Chaos Infinitum, to take over the place as a vocalist and the promo-CD “Inside my insanity” was released in February 2007. After Jokke and Oku joined Murdershock, the line-up was finally ready for some serious live action. They did bunch of gigs until Jokke decided to quit the band in autumn 2007. Replacement was easy this time when their old friend Ape from Scaur wanted the job. Since Ape joined, They have recorded Aborted Evolution promo-cd and and done lots of gigs. In 2008 the band signed with Full Metal Music and started recording their first full-length album titled "Reasoning Insanity". Recordings were finished January 28th 2009 and the release date was set to May 27th.

Band Lineup:                                                                         
Oku - Throat                                                                           
Wille - Guitars                                                                        
Ape - Guitars                                                                          
Jukka - Bass                                                                          
Panu - Drums.


Discography: 
Deathsicktwist Promo-CD 2006
Inside My Insanity Promo-CD 2007
Aborted Evolution Promo-CD 2008
Reasoning Insanity Debut Full-length 2009 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Murdershock">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.