1. Murdock is a Belgian artist known for producing Drum and Bass. He releases on renowned Drum & Bass labels such as Liquicity, Viper Recordings, and CIA Records, as well appearing at festivals around the world. He ran a weekly show on national radio for 15 years. He has released with Netsky, Submatik and Doctrine, and as vocal contributions from Veela, Jenna G, MC Mota, Sena and many others.

2. DJ, Producer & CEO of A Night of Madness, having set a unique standard in energetic club entertainment & bringing forward a fresh style to the club scene of UK & Ireland, his pioneering profile has grown largely and became recognised throughout the world.

Murdock has pursued his new brand "A Night of Madness" in which sold out Mandela Hall 15 of 15 times, including a double weekend celebration with Coach Nightclub. This is the beginning of a special journey with the hottest international bookings "A Night of Madness" is said to be one of the countries biggest and freshest dance brands to date.

When not headlining shows; Murdock regularly brings a groove to support internationally renowned artists such as Angerfist, Delete, Paul Van Dyk, Pete Tong, Nicky Romero, Fedde Le Grand, Dyro, Laidback Luke, Timmy Trumpet, Bassjackers, Will Sparks, MaRLo, Mauro Picotto, Yves V, Dannic, Dzeko & Torrez, Julian Jordan, Eddie Halliwell, Simon Patterson, Ben Nicky, Radical Redemption, The Prophet, Yoji Biomehanika, Zatox & Danny Howard to name but a few. Ensuring his names on support slots as well as making an impact on electronic music throughout a wider audience.

Murdock delivers energetic sets locking in thousands of listeners. With residencies & club appearances in some of the countries biggest and best nightclubs and venues such as T13, Kelly’s, The Telegraph Building, The Wright Venue, El Divino, Thompsons Garage, Coach and Box - Murdock is one of the prominent figures on the Irish clubbing circuit from joining and hosting sets with brands such as the legendary Cream & Goodgreef.

Born with a passion for performing and before his pursuit of electronic music, Murdock had always listened to a variety of music styles as well as playing several instruments. He has been producing for three years with over thirty original productions, the majority of which are available online. With an interest in a number of different genres, Murdock continues to progress in the development of his unique style, sound production and live performances throughout venues.

A highlight would be the pioneering residency within one of Belfast’s leading electronic and most uniquely branded nights “Electric Playground” leading to further success and awareness in and throughout the city. With the electronic music scene booming, his unique progressive and big room style and wide variety of new electronic music has allowed his name to be associated with leading artists and brand promoters across country. His diverse selection of electronic music ranging from the deep and dark of bass genres has allowed him to play some of the biggest raves in the country such as T13, Mandela Hall & Tennents Vital David Guetta Aftershow Party in The Limelight. These venues are well known for their large artist appeal and have hosted acts such as Calvin Harris, Ed Sheeran, M83 and Chase and Status to name but a few. This range of experience and talent has been developed over time to position Murdock as of the countries leading artists and one to look out for over the coming years. The next few years are set to be interesting and exciting <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Murdock">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.