There are currently two bands being scrobbled with this name:

1. Murk (aka Funky Green Dogs, Liberty City, Coral Way Chiefs, Deep South, Some Guys In Miami, Fury, Interceptor, Intruder), is a Miami,  US based duo that formed in 1991. The Cuban duo produces Latin-American influenced house music.They had five singles reach #1 on Billboard's Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart.

Murk has a vast back catalog of compositions dating from the early 1990s, including "Some Lovin" and "Every Now and Then" and many newer tracks such as Fired up! (#80 on the Billboard Hot 100, "The Way", "Dark Beat", "Doesn't Really Matter" and "Believe". Murk has also performed as Funky Green Dogs (also known as Funky Green Dogs From Outerspace). Group members include producers Oscar G and Ralph Falcon and vocalist Pamala Williams. Williams left the group after the released of the Get Fired Up album. She was replaced by Tarama Wallace who has been the lead singer for the duo since. Gaeten and Falcon have also released songs under the names Liberty City, and Oscar G & Ralph Falcon. Falcon has recorded solo as The Fogand Gaetan as Oscar G and Dynamo Electrix.
Murk scored a major hit in 2003, "Some Lovin", with American singer Kristine W. Murk is signed to the label Tommy Boy Records.

In addition, Ralph and Oscar have established themselves as skilled DJs, being in demand around the world at clubs such as Space, the various Crobar nightclubs, the various Pacha venues, and many others.

http://www.murkrecords.com


2. Murk is a one-man project formed in Italy (Sampieri, Tuscany) to play punk-influenced black metal with lyrical themes about death and afterlife. 

"Murk" is Lore (Vocals, Guitar, Bass, Drums) joined live by Ambash on drums (Gum, Turn Back Time), Andras on bass (Vidharr, Consummatum Est) and Moerke on guitar ( Vidharr, Consummatum Est, Mek Na Ver) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Murk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.