At least eight artists/bands have/had the name Murmur, including:

1) Dark folk project Murmur was formed in the mountains and trails of rural Connecticut by two singer/songwriters, Peter Morcey (100 Demons, Forced Reality) and Ryan Patrick White (Call It Arson, Jagged Visions). 

2) Sunniva Mellbye, based in Oslo, Norway. Releasing music as Murmur since 2018. Her sound has been described as "bedroom pop" and "synthpop".

3) Northwest, UK-based dub techno duo Murmur, "possibly the most self-restrained and least derivative operators in dub techno right now, and over the course of a handful of scarce twelves they've slowly gestated a frayed hybrid of minimal construction and fathomless bass that has less in common with the hallowed Basic Channel axis then the work of most of their contemporaries."

4) Danish indie ensemble who recorded the album Sexpowder 2000 volts in 1995 and did a cover on the tribute album Hip - en hyldest til Steppeulvene before continuing as Speaker Bite Me

5) Murmur, a loose acoustic drone ensemble of New Orleans who play tone/space improvisations based on a single note. Originally founded by potpie and recording on the Backporch Revolution label, the membership changes with each performance/recording and has contained anywhere from two to twelve members.

6) Experimental black metal (originally)/progressive metal/zeuhl (later) from Chicago, Illinois, USA, founded in 2007. Released their debut, Mainlining the Lugubrious, in 2010. Second, self-titled album, demonstrating a substantially changed style with influence from acts like Magma, early Genesis, and King Crimson (the last of whom is covered for the album's final track), released in 2014 (page at Murmur).

7) Murmur, alternative rock band from Leicester, England.

8) MŪRMŪR, a Russian band consisting of Misha Mishenko (composer), Artemiy Chirs (vocals) and Alexander Morgunov (drums). In 2017 released their debut album RAD. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Murmur">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.