Murry Hammond co-founded Old 97's — playing bass; writing and singing songs; and occasionally playing guitar. In 2008 he appeared on the 97's Blame it on Gravity and his solo release I Don't Know Where I'm Going But I'm On My Way, on which he also plays harmonium and banjo.

Murry Hammond was born and raised in the rural outpost of Boyd, Texas, USA, where - like most places in his home state - the sounds of steam engines carried for miles. As soon as he graduated high school, Murry made tracks to Dallas, helping to define a burgeoning punk scene that was equal parts psychedelic pop and slam dancing — even publishing his own 'zine. Murry also helped establish Deep Ellum's reputation as fertile ground for young bands like Edie Brickell & New Bohemians by playing with the influential Peyote Cowboys. During those days, Hammond opened for bands including the Flaming Lips and Hüsker Dü. He also produced the first solo recording by a 17-year-old named Rhett Miller.

Hammond and Miller continued to collaborate, honing their live chops in Big D venues like Naomi's Saloon, the Three Teardrops Tavern, and the historic Sons of Hermann Hall as the Ranchero Brothers (a moniker they still use occasionally to this day).

After a brief stint touring with alt-country godfathers Killbilly, Miller and Hammond joined forces with Ken Bethea to form Old 97's, a band that has released more than half a dozen CDs and tours to this day with drummer Philip Peeples. (Peeples also appears on Hammond's 2008 solo release.)

During his 30s, Hammond lost both his parents after they'd been married 45 years. He also met and married voice actress and singer-songwriter Grey DeLisle, a California girl for whom he left his native Lone Star State to live in the City of Angels. In 2007 they had a son — Jefferson (whom they call "Tex"). These experiences inspired many of the songs on I Don't Know Where I'm Going But I'm On My Way, which Hammond first performed at Burbank Christian Church during Wednesday night vespers. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Murry+Hammond">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.