There is more than one artist wtih this name:

1. mushroom cloud is a Japanese acoustic pop indie singer.
2. MUSHROOM CLOUD is a melodic death metal band from Denmark.

1. mushroom cloud is a Japanese acoustic pop indie singer. In August 2004, her first pv Sabon (サボン) was released on label site, Galaxy Train. She has a warm and child-like voice, a common trait of Galaxy Train artists. Aoikuuki and shiroi vanilla are the only albums she has released. shiroi vanilla was released in 2001 in the form of casette tape and has since been sold out. Her label has released the album for download here.

The singer's personal homepage, "mush colorer", can be found here

2. MUSHROOM CLOUD was founded in 2008 by guitarist Dmitriy Mukhamedov and drummer Simon Kristensen. Both were searching for a new and serious project where they could focus all of their energy. A year later, vocalist Morten Thoft Langerhuus joined the band and their first demo, "Blind Lead The Blind", was recorded soon thereafter. MUSHROOM CLOUD became an integral part of the Aarhus scene with its live performances, which included its first gig alongside the mighty MERCENARY. After a streak of successful concerts in 2011, the band followed up with "Enola Game" (2011) — another demo with more adventures songs and a clearer defined sound.

All of the tracks from "Enola Game" are featured on "In Mad Minute", although some of them were rewritten. The CD's lyrical content touches upon subjects like everyday life, inner demons and religion. Musically, the band has a lot of influences and can hardly be called a straightforward thrash band. Instead, they try not to be restricted by any unwritten rules in metal.

On September 9, 2013, the band released a debut album entitled "In Mad Minute".

MUSHROOM CLOUD incorporates everything from highly technical melodic riffs, solos, clean melodic passages, catchy choruses, brutal and clean vocals and fast thunderous drumming. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mushroom+Cloud">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.