The Leeds based art-rock trio are set to release their feverish second lp, Lines Redacted via Memphis Industries on 12 february 2021.  The new release, which finds the group recruiting Lee Smith (The Cribs, Pulled Apart by Horses) on mixing duties, arrives just under a year after their debut lp, 3d routine, capping off what has been an obviously tumultuous, but remarkably prolific year for the band. With any prospect of live shows decimated, the group, led by songwriter, Dan Hyndman, has found the time to release two eps (‘great artisanal formats’ and ‘yellow sticker hour’) and now a duo of full-length albums.

Tipped previously by the likes of bbc 6 music, loud & quiet, uncut, q, stereogum, diy, the line of best fit, dork and more, mush, comprised of hyndman (guitar/vox), nick grant (bass/vox) and phil porter (drums), present their own sonic idiosyncrasy. it’s a sound that blurs the lines of abstract surrealism, existentialism and social commentary; utilising guitars as tools in 2020 to stave off malaise whilst simultaneously commenting on the nation’s ability to fall into such dire straits. it’s a sensory overload of wiry tones that zig-zag between punk, prog and sardonic-funk with a relentless ability to reflect society’s faults and apathy in a unique and acerbic manner.
Whereas the band’s debut was very much a product of its time, something part-inspired by the political atmosphere of mid-2019 and a genuine moment of optimism when the prospect of a socialist government in the uk was on the cards, this new record uses tongue-in-cheek cynicism as a coping mechanism for the environment that we now find ourselves in. from one song to the next, lines redacted introduces a string of different narrators with each providing a different reflection on the armageddon scenario that we are slowly entering, whether that’s bemoaning it or gleefully willing it along. 3d routine presented a bed of scathing political jibes latching onto themes and decisions of the time. lines redacted mutates these ideas into something slightly more sinister whilst maintaining all of hyndman’s razor-sharp wit that permeates the album.

There are other artists with the same name

2. Mush are an Italian post punk band From Arezzo (Tuscany).
Mush's eponymous album is characterized by sharp and frantic melodies combined with grungy, abrasive tunes, which managed to fit somewhere in between the now-classic American post-punk and the Italian old school emocore: nervous guitar lines shape upon a tight rhythmic structure, made of angular percussions and metallic bass vibes, while the dual-vocals combo and the personal, emotional lyrics sung in Italian complete Mush's textured punk-rock with primal heat and passion.

In early 2016 the band (Francesco Magrini, Marco Ciardo and Francesco Mazzi) - assisted by sound engineer Andrea Marmorini - started writing its self titled album and prepared to enter the studio to record 10 songs. 
Their raw, tangible energy has been perfectly rendered by a mix of analog and live takes, experimented during the recordings: Mush has been recorded between August and September 2016 by Andrea Marmorini at Vacuum Studio in Bologna, mixed with Enrico Zoi at A Pezzi Studio in Arezzo, and mastered by Andrea Suriani at Alpha Dept Studio in Bologna. The album has finally seen light on April 24th, 2017 - on a limited vinyl edition (300 copies, hand-numbered) and digital.
For more information, visit their official websites:
http://www.mush.band 
http://www.instagram.com/mush.band
http://www.facebook.com/mushtheband 
http://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0AMN4D2UYJYFNzzQJdC2SQ http://open.spotify.com/artist/1ux5eOQS05YHdOWTsX4EPH?si=yESCWEODSFimiWsw4uyFsA

3: Mush: It's a british band with (at least) two album releases: 'In The Evening' and 'Not Enough Time' Most of the tracks on this site (mush) are by them, so they're ranked in the first position.

4: MUSh: It would be simply said that the MUSh are four friends of old date that are having a good time playing straightforward and happy songs.

The appearance deceives: everything is not so easy... 

These four young boys have met at the times of the elementary school. Since 1997 they try to use all their free-time for playing their own music; that communicates positive and joy; that amuses the public that asks more and more easygoing music.
They compose original songs which are "simple and melodic" for entertaining with an acoustic and refined music the evenings of whom is around them.

With by now a good “live” experience matured during the many evenings in Switzerland and with a self-made album in 2000, the MUSh in 2004 present themselves to the great public with their first official album TWENTY. 
This is an album that contains all the particularities of the MUSh: fun, methodology, simplicity, thoughtlessness, taste for the arrangements and desire to transmit emotions.

MUSh, Lugano, Switzerland

The MUSh are: 

Nicolas Küpfer - Vox and guitar 
Stefano Tonella - Guitars 
Francesco Polli – Drums, percussions and piano 
Niccolò Castelli – Bass guitar
Federico Polli - Guitars

5: Olivier Mutschler
DJ, electronic music teacher, producer and sound designer from France, Olivier Mutschler has released tracks with Orlando Voorn, Kai Alcé, or Chez Damier, and has remixed Juan Atkins and Alton Miller, to name a few.

6. MUSH is a unit of the formerly popular Japanese variety show 'Quiz! Hexagon II' which consists of comedian Shinagawa Hiroshi, singer/Sata Andagi member Matsuoka Takuya and comedian Mukai Satoshi. They released a song on the WE LOVE HEXAGON 2011 compilation album.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mush">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.