This band is a solo project of Anthony. He has guest musicians on live performances, which allows him to put them on the spot with no rehearsing. In turn, this to the listener is a mix between reality and emotional destruction, the fact that his music makes sense at times and others merges with insanity. This musician, if you can even call him that, is more of an artist painting a canvis of sound, and not very good at that, but interesting enough to make up for the chaos.
Anthony, as a person is a nice man, but with a very dark side, as like all humans we have emotions that we have difficulty explaining. So in that, he chooses solitude as a form of meditation and reverence.
The music sounds a little like punk, thrash, black, doom, chaos, noise, and beauty.
He presents his music well, with hand made cases. It really adds to the experience. Anthony
also makes other art pieces, very crude, but art none the less. He displays these at his shows. His lyrics are based on philosophy, human emotion, religion as a whole, 
and mankinds intolerable reasons to make sense of all these things, as well as the insatiable
urge to categorize everything. In order to have reason, logic, motivation, and purpose.
Athony, spoke to me at the last show and said “In reality we are just animals with the ability
to read, write, create and diversify away from instinct, this some how will be our dimize,
just look around you.”
He goes on try’n to explain that words are a waste of time a curse if you will. They both help 
and hinder us. Sure, yes but still I am proceeding to write this review for him and to the last.fm 
listeners.
He started playing music at a young age which has enabled him to understand and mess with 
it. He has play’d in several bands like, Modern Protest, Hate Mace, Strath, MVI, Killed Last Night, and his current band Olde Tome. His influences are every interaction in and out of consciousness, boldly reacting as best as he see’s fight with the choices he is faced with daily…

This band started in 1998, 24 releases thus far.
“birth into darkness” 91-98’
“light barer eternal/ hymns of the black death” 98-01’
“soul servivor” 02’
“worship” 03’
“666” 03’
“all for nothing” first release of “kill all hope” 04’ 
“as i rule in hell” 05’
“heavens waste” split with Meshech and Sorrow 05’
“kill all hope” 05 w/ bonus trax 05’
“in disbelief” 06’
“none” split w/ Ashes(us) 06’ 
“patience” 07’
“after death” 08’
"Desolit Land" 09'
"Fomrulasvictus" 10'
"Suprize colinoscopee" 10'
"Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum" 11'
"Rxh1" 12'
"Corpus Geniculatum Externum" 12'
"God never was" 12'
"33 verdibrey" 12'
"Meditation" 13'
'blaaxicte" 13'
"13" 13'
Music Distroyer is out of Durango, CO  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Music+Distroyer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.