there are 4 artists sharing the same name:

1) a Belgian post-rock band from Leuven:
http://www.myspace.com/musthcore  

2) a hardcore band from New Haven
www.myspace.com/musthxct
They were active from February to June of 2008, played a dozen shows and put out a demo. Members are now active in other bands.

3) a Schizo-Metal band from Norway. From their MySpace:
"Musth is a periodic condition, characterized by, amongst other things, highly aggressive behaviour. Testosterone levels in musth can be as much as 60 times greater than in the same individual at other times. Scientific investigation of musth is greatly hindered by the fact that, once under the influence of musth, even the most otherwise placid individual may actively try to kill any and all humans.
Musth most often takes place in winter.
The word is derived from a Persian word (pronounced mast) which means 'intoxicated' in general, or more specifically 'in heat" meaning 'sexually excited elephant'
Musth make music that stands out on the Norwegian rock-scene today, maybe even in the world. This is much due to their ability to write songs that has so much distinctive character. Their music can be so weird, and yet so catchy at the same time. Musth is also an amazingly strong live band, and has played a number of great shows in the past. Chances are they will again. And then, you better be there.. "

4) an American improvisation duo who released their only album in 1994. From AlteredStateRecords.com: "This is an adventurous, experimental album. It is very image provoking and would make great film music. Musth is Jon Bernson playing drums and percussion and Greg Grant playing nylon string guitar and alto saxophone. The spirit of this recording was total spontaneity and freedom. Greg and Jon improvised freely in the studio without any preconceived ideas. After a bulk of material was recorded, they picked out the magical moments that they liked. Some were good enough "as is". Others warranted overdubbing, also improvised, and ended up as multi-layered sonic excursions.
This is the kind of music you want to put on in a darkened room or for when you're driving at night. It goes deep and will take you into your subconscious... Some of the places it takes you are marvelous, indeed. This music is pure; it comes straight from its source, passing through Jon and Greg, but it's way beyond them. This is truly channeled music in the sense that neither Jon nor Greg consciously played it, but allowed it to flow out of them.
"In the languages of northern India, Musth (from a word of Persian origin) translates as 'a state of intoxication'. It is used to describe altered behavior in either humans or elephants. Various Sanskrit words used to describe this state come from the word mada, which can mean "hilarity", "rapture", "excitement", "sexual enjoyment", "lust", or "inspiration"." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Musth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.