Must Missa was formed in Estonia in the winter of 1996 by Kris and Viking. Berg joined shortly afterwards.

So in 1997 the line up was:

Kris – drums, Berg – vocals, Viking - Guitar.

In 1999 the band got their first experiences on stage, namely in Metal Fest Four. In the following year the band recorded their material in Theka Studio. Four tracks recorded in the studio and one in rehearshal made it to the demo „Sex Beyond The Grave“. A total of 40 copies were made and spread amongst friends.

In 2001 the demo found it's way to Juris (Beverina) who liked it so much that he and his partner Alex from Ketzer Records decided to release it on a MC and about 1500 copies were made.

2002 - Parasite Records from UK really liked the demo and agreed to release the bands debut album. A few months later the material was recorded (9 songs in total) in MusicWorks Studio. Songs were a bit different than on the demo, being similar to first Celtic Frost albums. From then on things didn't go as planned. Parasite Records went out of business for various reasons and Kris had to go and serve his time in the army. At the end of the year the band found a new label to release the material, Death To Mankind (DTM) from Spain. Negotiations with DTM ended with an agreement to release the material in the summer of 2003.

Unfortunately Kris (drums) left the band, however Ank (guitar), Suss (drums) and Martin (bass) agreed to play in Must Missa. The release of the album was delayed again.

In the beginning of 2004 DTM released Must Missa's "Ma Ei Talu Valgust". After years of troubles the album was finally done. A total of 1000 copies were made.

Then came another line-up change. Berg left the band in the spring. So Viking took over the vocals. Some gigs later the bassist Martin also left. The rest of the band decided not to take any new members, so Viking took over the Bass duties aswell. The line up now was Viking – Bass/Vocals, Ank – Guitar, Suss – Drums.

Must Missa went on to release several records:

2004 - "Goat Of Sin" - CD, a selfreleased promo 
2005 - "The Target Of Hate" - CD, under Nailborad Records
2006 - "Pure Hate" - 7" EP, Nailborad Records
2007 - "Martyr Of Wrath" - CD, Nailborad Records

Through the years the band also appeared on several compilations.

Must Missa finally went to the grave in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Must+Missa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.