Musta Talvi are a birmingham band who have played with the likes of Benediction,life denied,Left to Bleed and Orange Goblin to name but a few.

Originally Musta Talvi was a three piece gothic metal band, riffing out haunting tunes with a melodic female vocal and haunting screams.

More members were taken on over the year . Dan rose was taken on from a local birmingham band called lake on fire, his counter part was a long time friend Stu, who later left the band to pursue his career as a street runner. Big Voggz was taken on on the bass and Simon was soon taken on from another local metal act, Life Denied. After Stu's departure Talvi carried on with only one guitarist, before taking on Steven Billingham on second guitar, after this Musta Talvi started, hitting out a massive debut show at Birminghams Sunflower lounge, this was a big success. Musta Talvi also Added keyboards to thier assault , Jon Bradly took this part and this changed the sound completely, Jon had to leave early last year due to comitments with his other band who were signed to a small UK label. After reworking all our songs we later went on to perform at other local venues recieving great feedback for out live energetic performance. After losing the female vocals Musta Talvi became a heavier but more melodic band sighting influences from Carcass, at the gates, Dark Tranquility and Children of bodom to name a few.

With the Demo still in the works, Talvi still play live shows around birmingham , in venues such as scruffy murphys and the Black Horse. and have recently Supported Orange Goblin at Birminghams Barfly for the second time.


First gig review!! "Musta Talvi smashed their way into the Music world last night with a fantastic debut gig @ a packed Sunflower Lounge Birmingham. Despit bieng 2 members down they stole the show from from the rest of the line up. They blend Children of bodom with Dark Tranquilty and I cannot wait to see them with the whole band playing on a bigger stage. Wow 8/10" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Musta+Talvi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.