MUTANK made a deservedly big splash on the scene with their M.E.C.H METAL debut (which, showing the band to be ahead of the curve, appeared on cassette!). Their 80s- inspired metal onslaught lives up to the band’s name so well, there should be a John Carpenter film of the same name! As the sleeve of their debut warned: ‘MUTANK is against the law. Those caught listening are sentenced to headbang for all time!’

Bassist/vocalist and main song-writer Stephen Reynolds explains the meaning behind the bands memorable monicker. “MUTANK is a portmanteau of the words ‘mutant’ and ‘tank’. The mutant aspect is meant to invoke the thrash metal aesthetic while the tank aspect is less military than it is raw power, heaviness and imperiousness.”

Inspired by Megadeth, Overkill, Iron Maiden, Municipal Waste and Mike Patton (for vocals) and the golden age of thrash (85-90), MUTANK describe their sound as a “T-Rex skateboarding down a volcano!”

Now MUTANK are releasing new music, which Stephen says is ‘a step up from what people have  heard from MUTANK thus far.  Someone is gonna hurt their neck listening to this…Our upcoming EP ‘W.H.A.T.S.T.H.A.T’ sort of started as a joke. I just thought it would be funny to force an acronym for ‘what’s that?’ and I came up with ‘We Have Alotta Thrash Songs That Have Abbreviate Titles’. From there we came up with the concept of an EP with a bunch of forced acronym titles. The EP itself was written somewhat conceptually with the individual songs being very short thrash songs that come together to make one longer progressive thrash track, which harkens back to the title since we don’t even know what it is! We have a ton of new material in the works as well, people can expect new stuff sooner rather than later!”

Artists we also like
Megadeth, Metallica, Anthrax, Slayer, Exodus, Overkill, Testament, Suicidal Tendencies, Municipal Waste


Thrash Metal band from Montreal, Canada. 
MUTANK describe their sound as a “T-Rex skateboarding down a volcano!” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mutank">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.