Mutala is an italian death/technical death metal band. 

MySpace bio:

Mutala's story have been started in May '99, when the two brothers Febe (bass) and Femto (drums) put together the original unit of the band. In the first months of activity Febe and Femto began to arrange the first songs, but it was in September of the same year that Mutala had been taken their definitive shape with the entry of Kohl (guitar) and Leon (vocal). With this line-up composed of four elements, Mutala have been continued their pieces' production, that will bring the band to take on sounds that are by themselves called "mediterranean death metal". This definition refers to roots of band and to the strong link between them and their native country. In the last weeks of March 2000 Mutala carne in study for their first mini-CD production, entitled "What Hates Will Kill", a title that implies the lyrics contents that are into the six songs which compose this first work: the subjects vary in sphere of human feelings, like love, hate, glory... "What Hates Will Kill" had numerous good reviews from specialized journals and 'zines. Also thanks to good reviews for mini-CD of their beginning, Mutala have had possibility for carry on different gigs, including the "Core Of Hate Tour", in October '00 with OPERA IX and DISGUISE, and the gigs with NATRON.

After one year from previous experience into study, in march 2001 Mutala came in "Half Moon Studio" where, with Nicola Lonigro, produced their new CD entitled "Carnivorous Disposition", a 8 songs full-length that lasts little more than 43 minutes. The songs contained in the full-length signed a step forward from a technical, composition and arrangement points of view: swift feral parts, melodic and acoustic inserts blend together, searching for a sonorous trademark, typical sound of band for next compositions too. In September of the same year the band contracted a deal with the Italian label “Nocturnal Music” for print and dealing of their recording work, that was out at the beginning of February 2002. Then, gigs have been continued, and in December 2002 Mutala crossed Italian border for their first concert abroad, in Slovenia where they received a warm welcome, repaid by a strong and powerful gig.

During 2002 and in the first months of 2003, Kohl played with NATRON (Holy Records), with a very strong experience not only from a personal point of view (he played around Europe) but also for a musical improvement that have been repercussions on Mutala's activity.

Moreover, in september 2003, a session-guitarist joined the band: Stephan Olsen, from URSHURARK, who has been perfectly integrated into Mutala, strengthening the sound effect and enabling the band to play some parts which were possible to do only into the study. In july 2003 Mutala were engaged with the record of a 3 songs promo-CD. Mutàla played around Europe with “Death By Dawn” (D) during October 2003.

In November 2003 the band interrupt its activity for line-up problems...

2007 is the year of the rebirth... Mutala returns in its original line-up: Leon, Kohl, Febe and Femto. Today Mutala is finishing the project left dormant in 2004 titled "Cloning wicked minds", a 10 tracks full length CD, and is preparing for new devastating gigs!!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mutala">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.