There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Mutilator was a Thrash Metal band from Belo Horizonte, Brazil. 

They formed in 1985, and released a demo called "Grave Desecration". few more Demos followed this release, until in 1987 they released their debut full-length album Immortal Force  which was in a more Death Metal style than Thrash Metal album.

They released, thereafter, an album called Into the Strange  released in 1988 was in the style of Thrash metal once again. After this album the band split up due to musical differences.

In 2001 was an attempt to reunite the band with hopes of a new album. However, sadly the untimely death of the guitarist, Alexander "Magoo" from drug overdose made the band decide to end the project for good. 

2) Mutilator was a Thrash metal band from France. 

In 1987 they released "Omens of a Dark Fate" before changing there name to Mutilated. The music here is pretty different from the first Mutilated demo, "Psychodeath Lunatics". It is more of a heavy form of deaththrash, and in terms of speed and overall relentlessness, this demo is even more extreme then the demos being put out at the time by Massacra and Agressor in 1987. Although this is not the death metal as it has become with their changed name, the band's roots appear to have made their efforts in this demo, timeless.

3) Mutilator was a thrash metal band from Belgium. They released two demos called "Demo 1" and "Demo 2" before breaking up in 1988.

4) Mutilator was a death metal band from Mexico City, Mexico. They released a couple of demos, before releasing their debut and only album "At the End" in 2010. They split up soon after.

5) Mutilator was a swedish death thrash metal who formed in 1990. They released one demo before breaking up.

6) Mutilator  Mutilator is a Dutch Raw Hardstyle Dj & Producer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mutilator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.