My Fate is a finnish 5 piece metal group, formed in 2000.

Their latest ep "MMVI" is a free online release.

Band members:
Jukka Ruostila – vocals
Jaakko Järvensivu – guitars
Mikko Lehtinen – guitars
Roope Lehtinen – bass, backing vocals
Vilho Rajala – drums

This is metal. Seven years of determination, perseverance, self-confidence and constant progress. Finland’s My Fate is not just a band with talent, it’s a band with commitment. They have done everything on their own. The passion and quality of their work have earned them a small but dedicated fanbase. And now, their latest effort portrays a band completely ready for international attention and worldwide following.

Despite an impressive past catalogue of two EP’s and two albums, the new EP “MMVI” is a fresh start for My Fate. Vocalist Antti Ojanen resigned last year due to his lack of motivation, after six years as the demonic voice of the band. Guitarists Jaakko Järvensivu and Mikko Lehtinen, bassist Roope Lehtinen and drummer Vilho Rajala then launched an extensive search for a new singer.

Surprisingly, during this search the band did their first show outside Finland. This was in St. Petersburg, Russia, with Jukka Ruostila on vocals. His performance was so convincing that he was later asked to join My Fate permanently. Named after the year of these events, “MMVI” is the first My Fate record featuring Jukka. He’s got the scale the band was looking for, from growling to screaming and everything in between. Even more importantly, his ambitious attitude and down-to-earth character fit perfectly into the My Fate mindset.

The new EP was written, recorded and produced by the band, with help from sound engineers and old friends Lauri Heikkilä & Jussi Heino. The result is a hugely updated version of the trademark My Fate sound, massive and aggressive, with solid melodies and countless nuances. Simply put, “MMVI” is the best piece of work they have come up with so far.

Since the band is determined to push these songs into all ears of the world, “MMVI” can soon be downloaded from their website for free. Go on and spread the word. These guys deserve it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/My+Fate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.