English-Anglais

My Fatality was born at the end of 2008 while Jean-François (guitar) [2 Seasons Calendar, As Eye Bleed drummer in Insomnuit and Realm Of Lies] was jamming with Simon “Puff” Larramée [Les Truites Bioniques]. The two musicians had a hard time finding people who were on the same wavelength when it came to the unique sound they wanted. At the end of 2009 Jeremy Labbé, a great guitar player who had only played in one band [Necropol] joined in to bring his personal touch to the duet. Martin Bonin who had left Insomnuit, in which he played bass guitar and shared the stage with Marie-Claude Gosselin, who then played guitar for the same band, took the bass guitar position against whereas Marie-Claude put guitar away, replacing it with her vocal cords as her main instrument. Martin took the decision to leave the band to fill the empty bass spot in They Were Us while Jeremy took a short break. He was temporarily replaced by Philippe “Paddington” Chabot until Jeremy returned. The band was getting more solid but was still lacking low frequencies and a bit of aggressiveness, Grégoire-Étienne St-Aubin (bass guitars), who had been a member of several bands in Sherbrooke such as Unveil, Cold Morning, Retalihate, SyneQuaNon, Hydrae… decided to join the band after the long retreat he needed after Retalihate’s demise. He has been a part of the My Fatality line-up since April 2010.

Pretty soon another event was to change the line-up again: Simon had to move out to another city. Since the drum spot was left empty, the band decided to think harder about the orientation of My Fatality’s music and strengthened the cohesion within the band. Later on, Samuel Laframboise (drums) [Cold Insanity], wishing to get back in the metal scene, contacted the band members and became My Fatality’s drummer. The final line-up was then completed.

My Fatality has recorded Deathlessness as a single song in august 2010 which has been distributed at venues they played at. The band has also recorded a EP album which was launched on december 5 th.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/My+Fatality">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.