My Gold Mask started in 2009 as an experimental home recording project between longstanding collaborators (and couple) Gretta Rochelle and Jack Armondo. Since then the bands music has been featured in numerous blogs, fashion shows and on tv. But My Gold Mask's true passion and focus has always been exploring new musical territory and growing as artists.
Not concerned with classifications, My Gold Mask's songs bring to mind their own unique blend of cross boundary influences while a unifying "dark pop" undercurrent threads together their ever growing catalog.
In 2013 Gretta and Jack were joined by drummer James Andrew, who along with longtime producer Balthazar de Ley, has helped push the band into more electronic territory.
Currently the band is focused on releasing a series of digital singles that piece by piece are completing a larger tapestry. With the additional help of producer Sanford Parker and remixes featuring some of the bands favorite artists, these singles point to the future of My Gold Mask as they continue their journey of discovery and emotion. 


ALLMUSIC BIO:
"Fusing goth pop drama and garage rock energy, Chicago's My Gold Mask features vocalist/percussionist Gretta Rochelle and guitarist Jack Armondo. Rochelle, who was born in Louisiana and cites Hindi films and riot grrrl among her influences, met the Brooklyn-born, Los Angeles-raised Armondo at a party, and the couple formed My Gold Mask in 2008. Rochelle learned to play the drums and the pair began writing songs that combined her inspirations with Armondo's (which included surf rock and synth pop). They released their self-titled debut album in 2009, along with a pair of EPs, A Thousand Voices and A Million Miles (From Where We Were Last), in 2010. The duo became a trio with the addition of drummer James Andrew, which allowed Rochelle to focus on her vocals and to add more electronic elements to the band's sound. The band's second album, Leave Me Midnight, arrived early in 2013."  - Heather Phares

Links:
Official Site
Bandcamp Page
Official MySpace
Official Facebook <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/My+Gold+Mask">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.