There are multiple artists by the name of Myra.

1) German metal band
 
Since their first release in 2006 MYRA has become a constantly growing institution in european metal scene. Founded in 2004 MYRA went thorugh some line up changes including  Gert Rhymen (Deadlock). With this constant line up of highly motivated and ambitious musicians the band was able to record their first official output as mentioned above. It sold over 500 copies and gained first outstanding  reactions by fans and press, without support by any label or distribution. 2007 brought the first tour and a new bass player completing today’s line up.    

MYRA’s debut album The Venom It Drips, released in 2008, transformes the band into one of Germany’s most successful newcomers. The record was released via European Label Group having the tongues of press wagging a lot. Next to numerous headlining club shows across the whole country, MYRA brought their energetic live performance to enormous festivals like With Full Force, Mach1 or Sucks’n’Summer. Gaining a large following, the band is hard working towards the next step.                

Now on the eve of their second full length named Godspeed – vocalist Sebastian Spillner, guitarists Rony Henkel and Henrik Zeltner, drummer Sebastian Schneider and bassist Felix Thyrolf – have merged their creativity and experience to produce a new monster of modern heavyness and melody by breaking traditional boundaries of metal, thrash and hardcore.

Again MYRA entered the Kick The Flame studios to work with Disillusion mastermind Andy Schmidt creating a diverse and thrilling sound. Overall, the band has become more complex and mature without losing energy and strength. Along with heavy guitar and bass riffs, raging drums and aggressive vocals comes a bunch of euphoric melodies enclosed in elaborate songwriting. 

Packed with a set of ripping new songs and the ambition to burn every stage MYRA is ready to reach new heights.       


www.myspace.com/officialmyramusic

2) American Pop singer

 Myra (born Mayra Carol Ambria Quintana on May 21, 1986) is an American pop singer. She rose to prominence in 2001 after recording a cover of Martha and the Vandellas' "Dancing in the Street" for the soundtrack to the 2001 film Recess: School's Out (which she would then re-record in 2002 in Spanish for the Disney Channel original movie, Gotta Kick It Up!). During this period, she contributed the song "Miracles Happen (When You Believe)" to the film The Princess Diaries, and it received a 2002 ALMA Award nomination for "Outstanding Song in a Motion Picture Soundtrack". Also in 2001 she appeared in the film Max Keeble's Big Move.

In 2005, Myra signed her second record deal with Southern Signal Records/EMI. Myra recorded most of her second album in Monterey, Mexico and worked with an impressive list of producers. Eddie Galan of Mach 1 Music (High School Musical, Hannah Montana Soundtrack, Clique Girlz) was one of the main producers on the album, producing 8 songs for the album. Myra also worked with: Frank Myers (All-4-One's "I Swear"), Andrew Fromm (Backstreet Boys, Celine Dion, Marc Anthony), Avila Brothers (Usher, Mary J. Blige, Jessica Simpson), and NuSoul Productions (Aaron Carter, Mandy Moore).



3) Myra is an Icelandic post-metal band that has released one self-titled album. www.myspace.com/myra313 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Myra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.