There are multiple artists named Mystik.

1. French Hip-Hop Artist.
2. A Power/Thrash/Speed Metal band from the USA.
3. Black metal from Sweden.
4. Heavy/Speed Metal from Sweden.

In 1996, a burgeoning new school of rappers in France, Mystik appeared. The disc which formalizes: The Undaground Speaks, a maxi Assassin. 

Hometown Meaux and activist in his hometown, he joins forces with Jean-François Richet, who suggested he take part in the soundtrack of his film, Ma 6-T-Va Crack-Er. Following this, he is featured on many major projects such as First Class or compilation album of the collective Bisso Na Bisso. 

With Bisso, it is up to African roots and the group received many awards around the world, and even a meeting with Nelson Mandela. 

In 2000 Mystik released their first album, The Song Of The Exile rather well received by the public through the universal themes it develops. 

2002 is the year's second album, Natural Mystik, involving many sizes such as Ritmo, Diam's, Yael Naim. This album will take him to travel extensively, especially to Poland. 

Determined to enjoy his experience in the music industry, he formed his own label, Meldek Music, where he graduated in 2005, the street album Swollen Block A, which affirms once again the strong personality of the rapper. On this project, Lino, Le Rat Luciano, Mr R Jaeyez or lend him a hand. 

The following year, the label produced the original album and DJ Mystik H Streets Of Marseilles. With Dj H, he met many of the artists cited Phocean: Beretta, Keny Arkana, Madonna, Red Square, Bouga, Soprano, Komploz, Fratazia Land ... and organizes collaborations to bring unprecedented value does the potential of city. 

Pending the release of his third solo, Magnitude 9, scheduled for autumn 2009, Mystik back on its journey throughout the mix tape 1996-2008 Mystikamente Collector.

2) Power/Thrash/Speed Metal Group: 

Mystik were a fairly unknown metal group formed in 1989, in Cleveland, Ohio.
Mystik's first album, 'The Plot Sickens' (1992, Massacre Records) was a Power Metal metal effort that received little commercial attention, but did manage to gain a small underground following and good reputation among fans of the genre. Two years later  
Mystik released 'Perpetual Being' (1994, Massacre Records) in a more Thrash/Speed/Heavy Metal vein, but the album wasn't very successful, somewhat due to the broken and fragmented thrash metal scene of the mid-90's. They split up soon after.

The Plot Sickens lineup:
Vocals: Patrick Hughes 
Guitars: Ed Miller 
Guitars: Roy Gursten 
Bass: Joe Kilcoyne 
Drums: Ken Easterly

Perpetual Being lineup:
Vocals: Patrick Hughes 
Guitars: Roy Gursten 
Bass: Joe Kilcoyne 
Drums: Ken Easterly <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mystik">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.