There are several artists named Mysterium:

1) Mysterium was a dark metal band from Friedrichsthal, Germany. They released two albums under Prophecy Records. Their debut album, titled "The Glowering Facades of Night", came out in 2000, creating a sad and bleak  atmosphere including harsh and clean male vocals, female vocals, and particular instruments like flute. Their second album, titled "Soulwards", came out in 2003. Bandcamp page: http://mysterium-de.bandcamp.com

2) Mysterium was a project from Timisoara, Romania. Founded in 1996, Mysterium released the demos "Templum tenebrarum" in 1997 and "Odes pro malis ingeris" in 1999. With Kujcsen joining on keyboards, the band changed named Ekasia for the EP "Umbra si reflexe".

3) Mysterium is an experimental ambiwnt project from UK, brainchild of writer and professional therapist Andy Mercer. Mercer has previously featured as vocalist for a number of extreme metal bands but has more recently turned his hand to electronic music, recognising this particular genre’s ability to really capture the true essence of the esoteric and mystical in a musical form. Drawing on his background both as psychotherapist and long term student of the occult, Mercer combines both elements to create musical landscapes that capture the imagination and explore the psyche.
Mysterium’s dark atmospheric soundscapes invite the listener to embark upon a journey into darkness, desolation and hitherto unexplored regions of consciousness, but always keeping in mind that this is a necessary undertaking on order to fully explore both the positive and negative sides of human awareness. Mysteruim also offers salvation and escape from all that’s negative provided one has truly faced the shadow self, learned from the encounter, and thus able to move on.

4) Mysterium was a black metal band from Rijeka, Croatia. The group started in 2003 as a project of Croatian black metal musicians from bands like Death of folk, Naztrak, Gorthaur's wrath, Heathen Mysticism and Neldoreth. With members Lanzarot, Morbid and Leviathan, Mysterium recorded a demo titled "Black Metal Reich" in just a few days at the Death of Folk's recording studio named Wolves and Oaks. It represents a simple form of black metal in all its beauty and emotion.

5) Mysterium was an ambient solo project from Germany, formed by Gaamalzagoth. He released only one demo in January 1996, titled "Nacht der Wölfe".

6) Dungeon synth from Russia. https://mysterium666.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mysterium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.