Mystic Charm was formed in December 1989 by Herwing Schulling and Rini Lipman. Inspired by old Celtic Frost, Black Sabbath and Trouble, the band started playing heavy doomriffs with many breaks and ultra-rough vocals from female vocalist Rini Lipman.
After some line-up changes, which brought Mystic Charm one and a half year down, it was in January 1992 when they have completed their line-up again. Due to this, Mystic Charm strongly improved in writing and arranging songs, and has matured a lot. They recorded a low budget live tape to check out the interest in the band and discover that there indeed was a lot of interest in a band like them.
They decided to record a real demo in a professional studio, and the result was the demo Endless Sickness. This demo got them a lot of interest from various people, magazines and labels and when the band got offered a 7" EP deal by Shiver Records, they decided to go with it. They entered the studio again to record a bunch of new tracks from which two would end up on their debut 7" Lost Empire. The reactions towards the EP have been really positive, praising the band for it's talent and musical abilities. The EP showed that Mystic Charm is a very promising and talented band indeed.
Afters several negotiations between the band and Shiver Records, both parties decided to go for the big thing and Mystic Charm signed a 3 CD deal with Shiver Records.
The band has recorded 8 new tracks plus an intro for their debut CD. Some of the tracks are indeed brand new, other were also on the demo and EP, but they are heavily changed because the band wrote new arrangements for all these tracks. Not only does this give a new edge to the music, it also makes the songs even better than on any of the previous recordings. But not only their songwriting is really great, also Rini Lipman's vocals will be devastating for most ears.
The debut CD is entitled Shadows of the Unknown released in 1994. Afterwards the band split. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mystic+Charm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.