Mysto & Pizzi are two up and coming producers, ages 21 and 22, hailing out of Queens, New York, who are quickly establishing a name for themselves in the world of Pop and R&B music. Their first major placement was on R. Kelly’s “Double Up” album ( track “Get Dirty feat. Chamillionaire”) which debuted at 1 on the Billboard 200 and earned the production duo their first Platinum Plaque. They then quickly followed up with their second major release on Kelly Rowland’s album “Ms. Kelly” (track “Love”) which received great reviews and opened several doors for the duo. Since then Mysto & Pizzi have been hard at work on several major projects as well as official remixes for artists such as Justin Timberlake and Ciara. The duo has also been working a lot with several established as well as up and coming songwriters such as Ryan Tedder (of OneRepublic), Evan Bogart, Makeba Riddick, Taj Jackson, Solange Knowles, Christina Milian, Wynter Gordon, Lil’ Eddie and Eritza (of Esquared), Corey Williams (a.k.a Latif), Phyllis & Cannon, Ilya S., and Renald Francoeur.

Aside from their production career, Mysto & Pizzi have gained a large online following with their groundbreaking Video-Blog (www.mystoandpizzi.com), documenting their daily grind and journey into the music industry, giving music fans a first look into the behind the scenes life of an up and coming producer duo. With the support of their fan base, they were able to reach the top of the Youtube.com music charts with over 9 million video views.

They are currently working on and have pending placements with Wynter Gordon (Atlantic), Casely (Epic), Jordyn Taylor (Interscope), Cassie (Badboy) and Donnie (Badboy).

Influences: Max Martin, Stargate, Timbaland, Daft Punk, JUSTICE, Scott Storch, The Neptunes, Ryan Leslie, Dr. Dre …

You can check us out at
www.mystoandpizzi.com
www.youtube.com/mystoandpizzi (over 9 million views)
www.myspace.com/mystoandpizzimusic
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mysto+&+Pizzi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.