Myth of a Life is a 4 piece melodic death metal band from Sheffield, UK. Although the band was formed in the UK, none of the founding members originate from the UK. Initially the band started out as a one-man project by Japanese guitarist Takanori Shono, who used incomplete demos which he composed whilst being a member of Japanese melodic death metal band Impenetrability. These incomplete demos became the foundation of Myth of a Life’s self-funded debut EP ‘Erinyes’. The project was then joined by Italian drummer Damiano Porcelli (ex-Golem) and by Greek death metal vocalist Phil‘Core’ Dellas, thus forming the core line-up of Myth of a Life. 
Since its formation in late 2013, the band focused exclusively on practicing regularly and recording their debut EP. In this four-track EP the different cultural backgrounds of each of the band members combined forces in order to create an amalgamation of the dark melodies of melodic death metal and the ferocious riffs of thrash metal. During the recording process of the EP, English bassist Charlie Power joined the band as a session/live member. Later in August 2014, the band released their debut EP entitled 'Erinyes'. Apart from receiving many good reviews, the EP was voted album of the week by the music reviews page 'Death Metal Ao Extremo'. In November 2014, Myth of a Life announced that Charlie Power joined the band as a full-time member. In early 2015, guitarist Dave Warren also joined the ranks of Myth of a Life as the lead-guitar player and full time member.
In March 2015, Myth of a Life inked a three-year record deal with giant Greek record label Sleaszy Rider Records in order to release the band’s debut full-length album.The international melodic death metal quintet would start working towards establishing itself as an act in the Sheffield metal scene by playing numerous live shows around the area. In May 2015, vocalist Phil'Core' announced in a radio interview that the band will be entering the studio in November 2015 to record Myth of a Life's debut full-length album, hoping for an early 2016 release. 
In mid-August 2015, the band announced that guitar player Dave Warren had decided to exit the group because he was not able to commit to the level that the band required him to. As a result, Myth of a Life decided to continue as a 4 piece. In September 2015, Myth of a Life released the name of their upcoming debut full-length album, 'She Who Invites'. In early January 2016, the band announced they had entered Ida Red Studios with Phil Hackett in Sheffield, UK to record 'She Who Invites'. In February 2016, the band announced that they had parted ways with their bass player Charlie Power due to a number of musical differences. 
In April 2016, the band released a new single entitled 'Waiting To Die' from their upcoming debut album 'She Who Invites'. In early May 2016, the band announced that they had amicably parted ways with founding member and longtime drummer Damiano Porcelli. A few weeks later the band revealed a new line-up consisting of Liam Banks (ex-Lacrota) on bass, William Price (Psython) on guitar, Alexander Bond on drums and Phil'Core' Dellas on vocals, leaving him as the only original member. In mid-June 2016, Myth of a Life released their debut album 'She Who Invites' via Sleaszy Rider Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Myth+of+a+Life">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.