Although Mythic's career was fleeting they certainly left their mark on the Metal scene. Far from being a typical girl rock group Mythic employed the trademark guttural growls of Dana Duffey with guitars tuned way down making them probably the most well known of all the female Death-Doom Metal acts. In early 1991, guitarist Dana Duffey contacted the all female band Derkéta, after seeing them in an underground fanzine to see if they were interested in adding a fourth member. At that time, the Pittsburgh based Derkéta had actually broken up, unbeknownst to Dana who was living in Toledo, OH at the time. Dana decided to visit Pittsburgh, PA to meet with the remaining members of Derkéta, former Wormhole and Master Mechanic bassist Mary Bielich and drummer Terri Heggen. All seemed to go well so Dana moved to Pittsburgh and the trio began writing music. It was also decided that Dana would be the vocalist and main lyricist for the band. The name Mythic was chosen and the band was officially born. Within a month a three song rehearsal tape was recorded on a 4 track recorder to spread the word throughout the underground scene. The tracks being "The Destroyer", "Scarred For Life" and "Grande Grimoire". Roughly 250 copies were distributed before it disappeared into obscurity. Mythic played several shows on the east coast including several festivals in Rhode Island, Detroit, and Cleveland. Later that same year they recorded an official demo entitled "The Immortal Realm" which was recorded live. Tracks were: "Thy Future Forecast", "The Destroyer", "The Oracle", "Taste Of The Grave", "Grande Grimoire" and "Lament Configuration". This six song tape received heavy promotion, proving Mythic to be substantially more than an all girl novelty. Within a year of forming they were offered a MCD release from Relapse Records. Again, Mythic were eager to record and entered the studio immediately. The three song release entitled "Mourning In The Winter Solstice" was released in 1992 on MCD, 7" Record (both traditional black and limited blue vinyl) and cassette. Tracks were: "Winter Solstice", "Lament Configuration" and "Spawn Of Absu". Just before this recording was released, Mythic parted ways with Terri Heggen and a session drummer was used for what would be the final live performance at the legendary Milwaukee Metalfest 6. Soon after Dana & Mary went separate directions so that Dana could pursue a darker vision, which turned out to be Demonic Christ. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mythic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.