Mythological Cold Towers emerged in the beginning of 1994 after mythical battles among the ruins of desolate sanctuaries, Samej  (vocals), Nechron  (guitars), Flagellum  (guitars), Leonard  (bass), Akenaton  (keyboards) and Hamon (drums), beating the air with a scepter that resulted in a thundering, dark Doom Metal, intoning profound songs, which remit us to antique tales full of darkness and enigmas. 

In 1995 Mythological Cold Towers featured on the compilation “The Winds of a new Millenium”, by Demise Records, being pointed out by the critics and the public as the band which stood out in the year. The song which featured on the compilation was Golden Bells from Eternal Frost, an authentic majestic hymn. 

One year later they released their first album Sphere of Nebaddon - The Dawn of a Dying Tyffereth. With an unique music, the album results in a perfect combination of majestic plains and desolate fields. Sphere of Nebaddon has an unique aura, it is a cold, aloof and opulent metal with orchestral parts, such elements had never been present until then in a brazilian underground band. Splendid and dark tales of ancient empires, lost continents, dark mythology and lost wisdom are concepts of Sphere of Nebaddon album. This material caused excellent reaction in the underground scene and lots of reviews announced the band as the new brazilian revelation, they also characterized the band by their different proposal in relation with the others brazilian acts, which are more known by playing death metal/black metal. 

In 1998 Akenaton left the band, so Flagellum decided to replace him playing keyboards and Shammash joined the band playing guitar. 

In July 2000 Mythological Cold Towers released Remoti Meridiani Hymni, which is an authentic ode about the Aztlan and Kari’s war; a hymn to the ancient pre-Colombian pantheon, to the brilliance of the blood and gold’s empires and to the power of the sacred dynasties... Remoti Meridiani Hymni has an excellent production, and songs which tell about ancient bloody rituals, a shout of war to the Hebrew God, an expedition to the palaces which are covered with blood and magic of the tribes in Amazon.... Majestic epic metal with folk elements, Remoti Meridiani Hymni is received acclamation by the dark underground scene.
In 2001, Leonard decided to leave the band and in his place entered Lord Morpheus. 

After five years the third album The Vanished Pantheon saw the light of day with five long epic tracks now more intense and chaotic but keeping the same epic way from the previous releases. The lyrical conception is about a relationship of lost continents, like Lemuria, Atlantean with the ancient pre-colombian civilizations and counts with Lord Mephyr at bass, replacing Lord Morpheus. This album is released by the labels Firedoom Music in Europe and by Somber Music in São Paulo, Brazil. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mythological+Cold+Towers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.