One of Australia’s up and rising premier metal bands MYTILE VEY LORTH originally formed in late 1999, experimenting in the Doom / Black realm for several years. The band had a full line up which also included keyboards and female vocals. In 2002 they released a self titled EP. 

Since then the evolution of MYTILE VEY LORTH has progressed into an extreme Blackened Death metal creation, assaulting and obliterating Australian audiences. Now comprising of 5 members, MYTILE VEY LORTH offer their own style, drawing influences from both Black and Death metal fields, generating a sound that is brutal, sharp and relentless. 

Over the past years MYTILE VEY LORTH has been playing in many venues on the east coast of Australia, alongside many top acts of the Australian metal scene. Including bands like Alchemist, Abominator, Psycroptic, Alarum, Sukkuth, Lycanthia and many other national and international bands. 

In late 2005 they started recording their latest album “Disillusion“, at Redsun Studios in Canberra. Completing the album in 2006 it was destined for a European label (Which will remain nameless), then after a long deliberation they decided that they were unable to continue with the record label, due to lack of support from the label. 

In February 2007 MYTILE VEY LORTH resigned with Australian based label PRIME CUTS MUSIC for the release of the album “Disillusion”, which will be released in April 2007 and distributed nationally by MGM. The long awaited full length album entitled “Disillusion” offers seven blackened death metal tracks with plenty of diversity for the fans of extreme metal. 

2007 was a good year for MYTILE VEY LORTH with the release of “Disillusion” and plenty of shows with many high profile acts including bands like NILE, DECAPITATED, NERVECELL plus many more australian bands, in many venues. 

2008 MVL are working on new songs for the next album. Which we are working towards recording later in the year. We will be playing at METALSTOCK 2008 in Sydney, plus and number of other shows around the place. Keep an eye out for the shows. 

To get more infomation on Mytile Vey Lorth, including latest news, Gigs etc.. Check out our website and myspace 
www.myspace.com/mytileveylorth
www.mytileveylorth.com - Temporarily Out of Action being updated. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Mytile+Vey+Lorth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.