The Austin-based RnB singer-songwriter Mélat crafts seductive tracks that merge pop sounds with Ethiopian influences. She is a first generation Ethiopian-American. Her parents immigrated to the US in the 80s and, though she was born and raised in Texas, her parents always made it a point to instill the culture and language in their household. There's a strong sense of pride in every piece Mélat writes. A beautiful pride in who she is and her heritage is instilled in each and every Habesha from birth. That same pride manifests in her writing and her approach to topics like love, life, and the world. The music is very melodic, which may explain her love for melodies and harmonies. Also, the lyrics of the songs have a deep emotional root. All of her favorite Ethiopian songs really strum at the heartstrings and tell beautiful stories, she aims to do the same with her music. She wants to create something inviting that touches the soul.

She is  very open to trying different sounds and she doesn't like to be wed to one particular sound. She enjoys making out of the box music that people can be like “I don’t know what genre to put this in, but I love it!”. She have always had a particular love for old school jazz, Ethiopian music, and pop, but genre never makes a good song, the song is the one and only judge of that - she says. She is influenced by the music by Ella Fitzgerald, Teddy Afro, Michael Jackson and Mariah Carey for which she says that it is music that makes you feel something and inspires her the most.

Pha The Phenom and Mélat established the main stakes of her sound on the Canon series, her first work. Mélat's entire sound is a branch from those roots. She was then working with Obey City on a more electronic and experimental sounds. Music she makes she describes as honest, raw, and human. It lies in an uncharted corner of the R&B scale snuggled closely with hip-hop, pop, rock, jazz, and Ethiopian music. It’s all of it and none of it at the same time. It’s amorphous but still consistent in it’s truth. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/M%C3%A9lat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.