N.A.S.A. may refer to at least 2 bands\people:

1) North America South America, an international collective of musicians spanning a wide spectrum of musical genres, centered around Squeak E. Clean (Sam Spiegel) and DJ Zegon (Ze Gonzales). Sam and Ze met in April of 2003 at a friend's studio and began making music together the following day.

At first they sampled rare Brazilian records from the 60's and 70's to make tracks. However, what started as two crate diggers making music for the fun of it soon developed into something much bigger. Having forged a strong friendship through their passion for music, Sam and Ze decided to make a record with all of their heroes and favorite musicians.

The idea was to bring people from different worlds together through their shared inspiration and love of music. Thus N.A.S.A. was born, with crazy collaborations like Ol' Dirty Bastard (Wu-Tang Clan), Karen O (Yeah Yeah Yeahs), and Fatlip (Pharcyde) on one track, David Byrne (Talking Heads), Chali 2na (Jurassic 5), and Gift of Gab (Blackalicious) on another, and even the unlikely pairing of Tom Waits and Kool Keith.

Soon Sam and Ze realized they could expand the concept to encompass an entire record. The idea is to ignore all of the boundaries and borders that are in place to keep people divided, such as musical genre, race, politics, geography, language, etc. As a result, they gathered the craziest and most eclectic collection of musicians ever assembled on one album in the hope that they can show, through music, that all those superficial divisions are an illusion.

N.A.S.A. proves we are all one race of human beings interested in collaboration and unity, ignoring preconceptions, and transcending genre definitions.

2) N.A.S.A. (Noize Addicted Sound Architecht) is Mikkel Rasmussen, living in Copenhagen, Denmark. He has been a part of the Danish psychedelic scene for over 10 years and has been big a supporter of the progressive psytrance scene as well for several years now. Also known as: N-A-S-A, Nasa
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/N.A.S.A.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.