There are 2 bands that go under the name N.M.E.

1) Underground cult band NME formed in the 80’s and released Unholy Death in 1985. Influenced by the sounds of bands such as Venom and Hellhammer, it remains a cult favorite as well as serve as influence to other black metal bands.

In April 1986 Kurt was accused of killing his adoptive mother with a Hatchet and Scissors. It is said While on drugs he claimed that he thought he was a Robot. He wanted to open up his mother to see if she was a robot also. He was charged with second-degree murder and was sentenced to 12 years in Prison. He was released early in 1994 and that was when NME's music took a change. Guitarist Kurt Struebing died in an auto accident on March 9, 2005. 

2) Nine Millimeter Execution (N.M.E.) originally formed in the early 90's as "Lepra", Monstruo the vocalist of Lepra had a different vision...Lepra spawned into the NME we know today. NME was formed in 2000 and that's when the chaos began. NME keeps it None More Evil with it’s in your face riffs, bass lines, drum beats, rap lyrics and death vocals. NME is one of the few bands that successfully fusion metal and rap, making into what NMEigos know as "ghetto metal" To understand the concept, one must see them perform their heavy hard hitting non-stop ferocious assault on metal and rap. With the attitude of we don't give a fuck we're going to play our way is their motto, have made them a known entity. Playing with the ranks of hard hitters such as Brujeria, Asesino, SX-10, Napalm Death and countless others NME continues to evolve into a well oiled machine that keeps going with a mission to accomplish. With Troquero's thunderous bass, Sancho's fast and heavy riffs, Bazuka's crazy sounding six stringer, Pirujo's blast beats, Nuckles ghetto flows and Monstruo's morbid vocals. NME will continue to bring you hard-core "ghetto metal shit" There is no gimmick, no catch, just brutal in your face non-stop music which is what they are good at. NME's future is very good. To not be a part of this scene is missing out on a good thing. "Ghetto Metal is here to stay! Aririva las manos es un assalto los NMEgos estan presentando. ..
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/N.M.E.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.