There are two bands with the name Naamah
 

1) A band started in 1996, in one of Warsaw highschools, as Melankolia. In the beginning they experienced usual line-up changes and some "accidental" gigs. They also recorded a few tracks, which were included in a soundtrack to a play by "Goodbye Blue Monday" theatre. One of their songs was also put on "Metal Against Racial Prejudice" compilation. Their style evolved - they gave up keyboards and their sound became much heavier; also, they changed their name to Naamah. In June 1999 they recorded their 20-minute material entitled "Magia". It was well received by fans and music press; the band gave many concerts and interviews for local media. Soon the band started work on their new material - they wanted to create richer, more technically better compositions, they also returned to the keyboards. In the middle of 2000 the band was joined by Marta Frakstein (vocals, violin), then they entered the studio to record their first full-length. "Naamah" was very warmly received by the fans and got good reviews in music media, it was also well spoken of by members of renowned Polish bands such as Batalion D'Amour or Moonlight. After many gigs and some line-up changes the band recorded two pieces for a D.K. Imielin Rock Scene compilation. The CD included new versions of "Kolejny Raz" and "Magia", enriched by violin parts and with new solos. The band entered the studio again and recorded new material "Ultima". Recording session finished in July 2002. The album shows how the band developed, searching for their unique musical identity. The compositions are very sophisticated and thought-over, maintained in progressive climates with gothic and art-rock elements. Soon after the band gave a very successful performance at Voyage 51 (Progressive Music Festival). In the end of 2002 they signed a record deal with Metal Mind Productions and in January 2003 their first official release was out. In June they hit the road with The Gathering and started to work on their next album. the work on "Resensement" finished in March 2004

Discography
1999 "Magia" (demo)
2000 "Naamah" (Naamah)
2003 "Ultima" (Metal Mind Productions, MMP CD 0201)
2004 "Resensement" (Metal Mind Productions, MMP CD 0246)

Line-up
Anna Panasz - vocals
Adam Kaliszewski - guitar
Mikołaj Szałkowski - guitar
Adam Szewczyk - keyboards
Marcin Stasiak - bass guitar
Krzysztof Szałkowski - drums and percussions

2) Naamah is a solo dsbm artist from Romania  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Naamah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.