Nachtalb is a German depressive black metal project from Bochum, North Rhine-Westphalia, found in 2009 year. It deals with themes like depression, isolation and inner struggles. The only release of this project is Schwindend split with Seelenpfade

---

"NachtAlb" is Thomas Pitzer from Marburg, Germany. Born in 1982 his youth was affected by the rough Grunge and Punk music of the nineties (WIZO, Nirvana, NOFX ...), but also alternative rock bands (Tocotronic, Weezer, Nada Surf...). He always liked Psychedelic, long and overwhelming guitar soli and later he went deeper into the sounds of the late sixties and seventies (The Doors, Velvet Underground..). For a long time he was very sceptical of electronic music and the techno scene, but after he started studying at the University of Marburg he met some new friends who were interested in electronic sounds an DJing. Through those he became familiar with groovy minimal music and strong and deep Progressive Techno and Techhouse which he liked more and more. They founded the group "Synchrotron" in Marburg and started to organize own Parties to enrich the cultural spectrum of their small hometown with fresh electronic sound.

On the other side he went to a lot of "goa-parties" then. The strong atmosphere on those goa-openairs and the mighty psychedelic trance sounds became a passion for him from the start. The first time he heard those rolling and roaring basslines out on a party in the woods he fell in love with this wall of sound.

Thomas started to experiment with electronic sounds and beats in summer 2006, using his computer and a sequencer software. During the last two years he more and more developed producing skills and his own style of Progressive Trance, combining often rough and dirty basslines with minimalistic sounds and melancholic melodies. There lies often a slightly dark atmosphere in his tracks. Soon he had the possibility to try out his grooves performing live-acts on local electronic parties and since 2007 he works together with his friend Jost H. Walter who rapes his guitar during their live sessions (both have another project together with their Friend Schubi: The Thrash-Punk-Jam-Combo "Alpha-Peter"). Since Summer 2008 they have the possibility to use a whole studio for developing their music and so Thomas has reached a new quality of producing and mastering his stuff. So watch out for Nachtalb and new and fresh Progressive Trance sounds in the future .. bla bla bla bla... and have fun with it :-P  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nachtalb">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.