Nachtmahr is a name of least three artists:

[1] An industrial techno pseudonym of Thomas Rainer (aka L'Âme Immortelle and the defunct Siechtum).

Inspired by numerous years of DJing, the first release, "Kunst ist Krieg (i.e., Art is War)", and it’s club hit, BoomBoomBoom, quickly became worldwide industrial club staples and earned the band a slot on the soundtrack of the American blockbuster movie, SAW IV.

However, the success of the EP was far surpassed with the release of the full-length album, "Feuer frei". The club single Katharsis dominated the clubs for months, helping the album to stay in the top 10 of the German Deutsche Alternative Charts (DAC) for more than 6 weeks. Germany's biggest and most influential dark music magazine, ORKUS, even stated "Feuer frei" was “the new standard for the electro industrial genre”.

During this period, Nachtmahr extensively toured through North and Central America, Europe, and Russia - including major worldwide festivals like Wave-Gotik-Treffen, Kinetik Festival, and M'era Luna - whilst preparing their second full time assault, "Alle Lust will Ewigkeit".

With it, the Austrian Industrial project continued on the uncompromising and relentless path of destruction with their now-trademark heavy distorted beats, driving bass lines, and addictive melodies. This notably lead "Alle Lust will Ewigkeit" to the No. 1 positions for both single and album in the Deutsche Alternative Charts.

In 2010, Nachtmahr's third album "Semper Fidelis" was released, again placing highly in the German charts.

In 2011, Nachtmahr announced plans to expand their live touring scope, landing gigs in Australia, Ireland, and the United Kingdom.

Sites: Discogs, MusicBrainz, Wikipedia, Twitter, Facebook, MySpace and Nachtmahr.at (official).

[2] A German black metal band with Thomas Helm and Ulf Schwadorf (of Empyrium). Nachtmahr is an old German synonym for 'nightmare'. The actual year of creation is unsure, since Helm once claimed that the idea for this project reaches back to the mid-90s. The band has released two split EPs. The first EP with Sun of the Sleepless was released in 2004 with Lupus Lounge records. It was followed up by a split EP with Helrunar in 2005. Their style is a concentration of intense, dramatic atmosphere, magical-moody black metal, complemented by two contrasting voices and dramatic keyboards.

[3] A Günzburg, Germany based black metal band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nachtmahr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.