There are more artists using this name:


1) Nachzehrer. Rising from the pits of Boston, MA in 2009, NACHZEHRER plays raw black metal combined with black thrash speed and aggression. In 2010 they put out the four song demo "Black Thrash Ritual" as a limited tape release on Massachusetts-based label Reaper's Grave, followed up by the 2011 EP "Pestilence Hungers in the Shadows" as a split-label release on Demons Gate Records/Tombs in the Valley Productions from the UK. They have shared the stage with Destroyer 666, Enthroned, Evoken, Nocturnal, Midnight, Impiety, Abazagorath, Absu and many more, unleashing a chaotic assault of blasphemic devastation with each live ritual! To contact the band, email: nachzehrerbm@yahoo.com

2) Nachzehrer was formed during a creative inspired moment on the sidelines of the Tampere Film Festival in March 1987. On-site and therewith founding members were Max Aviles, Ilmarinen Harland and Rick Oberheim. The main connective element is their collective genre-spanning preference for a dark, but ironically ruptured tinge of life, which is reflected in the lyrics, in the music - a cocktail of popular doomsday music and danceable soundtracks to interpersonal catastrophes in the tradition of bands like Tuxedomoon, Joy Division, The Birthday Party, Frank Tovey’s Fad Gadget - and of course in the name of the band:

"A Nachzehrer is a sort of German vampire. [...] Though officially a vampire, they are also similar to zombies, and in many ways different from either undead." (Wikipedia 2007)

Already during the constituent session in April 1987 they record the first material for their meanwhile legendary "4-Track Tape". In the following year, more than 2 000 sold tapes qualify the band as one of the most successful in tape avant-garde. 1989 the trio, still teenaged, wears down two long-serving producers and calls off a major label deal. The same year drummer Aviles dies as a result of a car accident shortly after the end of their first club tour. The remaining Harland and Oberheim cancel all intended releases; hide the jointly completed "Posthum" and strike different paths.

1998, after an eight-year break, Harland, Oberheim and Cora Pascas, now playing guitar for the band, decide to make a new start, which soon yields fruits, that are hard to take, but durable. To find out how the story continues, check out the band's official website: www.nachzehrer.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nachzehrer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.