There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Nada (born Nada Malanima, 17 November 1953 in Gabbro, Rosignano Marittimo, Province of Livorno) is an Italian singer. She was nicknamed "Il pulcino del Gabbro" ("the little chick of Gabbro").

Nada's début occurred at the age of fifteen at the 1969 Sanremo Music Festival with the song "Ma che freddo fa", which gave her a sudden success, also with the Spanish language version "Hace frío ya". The following year she participated in the festival again, singing "Pa' diglielo a ma'" together with Ron. She also took part in Canzonissima, a popular TV programme of her country, with "Che male fa la gelosia".

In 1971 she won the Sanremo Music Festival with "Il cuore è uno zingaro", together with Nicola Di Bari, obtaining notable international success. In Sanremo again in 1972 she was third with "Il re di denari". Later she returned to Sanremo in 1987 ("Bolero"), in 1999 ("Guardami negli occhi") and in 2007 ("Luna in piena").

In 1983 she was voted "Singer of the Year" with her summer hit song "Amore disperato". In 1998, the Italian band Super B gained a notable success with a cover of this single.

Her 2004 album Tutto l'amore che mi manca (produced by John Parish, former producer of PJ Harvey) was awarded as Best Independent Album of the Year in Italy. The album also contains a duet with Howe Gelb. Also, the following studio album Luna in piena won the award for Best Independent Album in 2007.

On June 21, 2009, Nada participated in the Amiche per l'Abruzzo concert at San Siro in Milan, a line-up of all female Italian stars organised by Laura Pausini to raise money to help the city of L'Aquila, devastated by the earthquake earlier on that year. Nada joined a special project band consisting of Marina Rei, Paola Turci and Carmen Consoli on stage for the final song of the first part, singing a rousing rendition of her classic "Ma che freddo fa".

2010s decade sees the release of her new studio album Vamp in 2011, followed by Occupo poco spazio in 2014, L'amore devi seguirlo in 2016 and È un momento difficile, tesoro in 2019, in addition to the collection Materiale domestico, which has new versions of the singer's old repertoire and four new songs. 

In 2016, her single "Senza un perché" was featured on the HBO series The Young Pope.
2) Nada is a Finnish group founded by composer Eero Hämeenniemi, that fuses elements of modern jazz, contemporary chamber music and world music.
3) Nada is a trance duo formed by Gidi Raz & Koby Levi.
4) nada is an electronic/ambient project by Steve Grainger [http://www.myspace.com/nadasonic].
5) Nada is a Venezuelan hardcore punk band.
6) Nada is a Costarican alternative rock band.
7) Nada is an experimental / ambient project helmed by Rob Riddle with various contributors including Scott Martinez (Autumn Cathedral), Damien Gonzalez (Swivelfaust, Slur) and Mason Jones (Trance). They had one release "awkward y borracho core del todo" on Flying Esophagus Productions - distributed by Charnel House.
8) Nada is a Moroccan singer  (please use Nada Halaftek 
9) Nada is a rapper and beatmaker from Finland [http://www.myspace.com/nadabeats]
10) Nada is a collaboration project between Humphrey Bacchus and Russell Davies, aka Abakus.
11) Nada is a Turkish alternative/electronic pop-rock group [http://www.myspace.com/nadaist]
12) Nada is (maybe) a German punk band (Taugenix Sampler #2).
13) Nàda is an avant-garde metal band from Switzerland (please use the tag Nàda).
14) Nada (나다) is a Korean rapper and ex member of the girl group Wa$$up. 
15) Nada formerly known as Irascible and now as Irracible  is a French rapper recognized since his first 2014 EP Désillusion for his left-wing radical lyrics.
16) Nada is a Portuguese deathcore band.
17 Nada is a Moroccan singer named Nada Azhari. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nada">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.