Nader Sadek is a death metal project by Nader Sadek, most famous for designing Mayhem's 2009 stage imagery. He has teamed with:

Rune "Blasphemer" Erikson (Ex-Mayhem, Aura Noir, Ava Inferi) - Guitars
Steve Tucker (Morbid Angel) - Vocals
Flo Mounier (Cryptopsy) - Drums
Novy (Ex-Vader, Ex-Behemoth) - Bass
Sean Frey - Guitars

Nader Sadek invites you on a journey to the depths of the earth, where substances of a repulsive nature dwell. Beneath the earth’s crust, over millions of years creatures have disintegrated and decayed until taking on ghastly new life as petroleum. Like a return of the undead, petroleum and its derivates have wrought cross-cultural conflict, environmental pollution, and economic distress. With a visual and aural assault, Sadek's new work "In The Flesh" re-interprets petroleum's sinister insinuation into our everyday lives. Nine songs and a series of original drawings video works explore several aspects of the commodified resource we find ourselves fatally dependent on.

"In the Flesh" exploits the sonic links between death metal and gasoline-dependent heavy machinery such as automobile and airplane engines. These links shaped the process of musical composition itself: The album opener, "Petrophilia", kicks in with a sound evoking an engine starting up. Another song, "Of This Flesh (novus deus)", follows the sonic structure of a car shifting gears. While continuing to link musical composition to mechanical transformations, other songs depart from engine-based
references. The outro to the album, "Nigredo in Necromance" which is already accompanied by a video, dwells on an individual’s recognition that he must die in order to reunite with his deceased lover. The song riffs on the life-in-death of an oil-drenched society, as the lovers’ reunite in their decomposition and rebirth as petroleum. This theme also drives the track "Mechanic Idolatry", which channels the uncanny thrust of Sadek’s recent artistic output, as live human beings provide the fuel for machines transforming themselves into flesh. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nader+Sadek">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.