Nadia Schilling (born in Caldas da Rainha, Portugal) is a singer-songwriter.

Schilling ventures presents "Kite", the first single from her debut album "Above the Trees".

Schilling grew up with the alternative rock movement that popularized Caldas da Rainha in the 1990s. She studied Landscape Architecture and attended the Conservatory of Music where she studied guitar and vocals. In 2012, she joined the band loopooloo and released the "loopooloo EP" (2013). She was also part of a jazz quintet with whom she recorded the "Blue EP" (2016). In 2015 she released her Covers EP and short after the single "Bite the Bullet" (2016).

The songs from “Above the Trees” were all composed on an old acoustic guitar inherited from her grandfather after the difficult time that followed her mother’s death. The sound of these songs is based on folk elements, but also of rock and jazz. Her influences come from a different range of artists such as Beck, Nico, Elliott Smith, Cat Power, Bill Callahan, Jon Brion, Fiona Apple, Nick Cave, Portishead, Tom Jobim, Chet Baker and Blossom Dearie.

The album features some great musicians as Filipe Melo (piano), João Hasselberg (bass / double bass), Bruno Pedroso (drums), and special guests such as the Brazilian singer Marina Vello (Bonde do Role, Marina Gasolina, Madrid), and the guitarists Joao Firmino and Mario Delgado, among others.

"Kite" flies through the memories of a life and seems to decipher love. A journey that, despite everything, runs through any destination without fear. An intrinsic freedom in the form of a song, whose melancholy opens up to a scene full of light, where possibilities are endless. The voice of Nadia Schilling sets the tone and in a steady compass, together with the piano and with a string quartet that raises the narrative, keeps its search for new horizons.

Kite music video was directed and animated by the great visual artist Joao Pombeiro.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nadia+Schilling">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.