NAILGUNNER was a thrash metal band from Joutseno (Finland).

The Current Line-up:
Jori Sara-aho - Drums
Toni Lötjönen - Guitar
Kalle Nurmi - Guitar
Janne Puranen - Bass
Jussi Kaskinen - Vocals

The story so far:
Nailgunner was founded by Toni Lötjönen in 2002, when he wanted to form a Slayer -coverband. Simo Kukkonen joined in to play guitar and Jori Sara-aho took on the drums. When the first rehearsals finally took place in Joutseno the whole idea of a coverband was forgotten. Riffs started turning into songs and the songs sounded like thrash. Simo left the band shortly, but Jori and Toni continued building up their own metal tunes. After some time Juha Lähde was recruited to bass and more songs were made. Finally Toni Huhtiniemi and Sami Kettunen joined the band, thus making Nailgunner a fully operational thrash metal killing machine. The first demo, called All life ends was made in 2004 kickstarting the band to pursue the the most brutal and catchy thrash metal sounds...

The first full line up broke up in 2004. Huhtiniemi and Lähde were replaced by Jan-Erik Eskelinen in guitar and Tomi Malinen in bass. With this group Nailgunner recorded a split CD with Wounds. The split was released in 2005, introducing a more raw and versatile sound, with a lot less of the modern influences found on the first demo. Malinen played only one show before getting replaced by Janne Puranen. Two songs were recorded for two 7" splits. Also the recording of a full length album had been planned for a while, and in 2006 Nailgunner started training more than ever, for the songs kept getting faster and more technical all the time...

Just when Nailgunner was being ready to record their full-length debut, Sami decided to leave the band because of problems with his motivation to sing. Also Jan-Erik joined the ex-members' club. Auditions were held for a new singer and Jussi Kaskinen ended up on the front. The album would still be finished without delays, and a new guitarplayer would be searched later...


29.01.2008:
It's time to take a break. The album is still unreleased and all of this waiting and problems with labels have made us fed up and pissed off. At the moment there is no motivation and no inspiration, so we'll just have to wait for a better time to make music. We'll play our confirmed shows and then we'll be doing nothing for a while. When the time is right, it'll be a fresh start from a clean slate.

Still, because we think the album deserves to be heard, we have decided to share it with you. You can download the whole album from our website http://www.nailgunner.net/  (Defunct/404) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nailgunner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.