There are several artists named Nail.

#1: Nail is a Canadian progressive heavy rock/metal band. After spending several years performing with Canadian multi-platinum recording artists Helix, Nail was formed in 2007 by Rainer and Cindy Wiechmann after their departure from that group. Nail presents a sound that is a considerable departure from the ‘80s “Hair Metal” rock sounds one would associate with Helix, having roots and influences more likely associated with groups like Rush, Black Sabbath, and Tool. Stylistically Nail is difficult to categorize as there are few if any groups that combine these elements with female vocals, effectively putting the group into a category of their own. 
 2007 saw the release of the first self-titled album which was met with many positive reviews and made its way onto several “best of” lists from international reviewers. Catchy musical hooks and lyrics combined with skilled musicianship and arrangements that are “progressive” in nature but still easily accessible set the standard for the “Nail” sound. The live concert performances also include co-ordinated video presentations which combine into a sensational entertainment experience.

 May 2010 now sees the release of the band’s sophomore album, “power and greed”, which continues in this vein, and so far has seen excellent reviews. Produced and engineered by producer/Nail guitarist, Rainer Wiechmann, whose many past studio credits include associations with artists, such as Kittie, Helix, Blood of Christ, Thine eyes Bleed, and dozens of independent releases over the past 20 years.

 Although the Nail lineup consists of veterans of internationally successful recording/touring acts, the group is currently unsigned and remains independently managed, seeking industry label/management representation.

 Nail is:
 Rainer Wiechmann guitars/vocals
 Cindy Wiechmann Vocals
 Darcy Maudsley Bass/vocals
 Dale Penney Drums/vocals

 Discography:
 NAIL /NAIL 2007
 NAIL/Power and Greed 2010

#2: NAIL is a heavy rock band from Germany. grounded Rock music bound to elements that arise from new metal to modern Rock without activating any Stereotypes. NAIL is always alive, powerful and intensive. Straight, partially rough but nevertheless definitely entitled to be considered as sophisticated and sharp. Beamy riffs meet flowing bass lines and grooving drums all charged by accurate shouts and catchy hook lines.

NAIL emerged in 2002 with lead singer Chris Grassl, Sergio Rokita (Guitars), Holger Schauer (Bass) and Sven Mittelbach (Drums). Even if the shapes the typical NAIL Sound used to call home have changed, as always, some things will never change - it's still honest Rock music, straight but melodic, atmospheric, frisky but intense. The current EP "Soma Holiday" gives an impression as to how intense NAIL can be. Compared to the tracks of their first EP "Me Behind Me" the new songs are not as strongly affected by aggression and anger. The tracks on Soma Holiday gained something in return, profoundness and a certain ambience. The songs generally display snap-shots of life with lyrics that give an abstract insight in everyday life and extraordinary situations in which everybody might know.

#3: Nail is also an electronic artist from Mexico.

#4: Nail is an alias of British House producer Nail Tolliday who is better known for being one half of the downtempo project "Bent". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nail">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.