1. Nand - Nu Electro Disco Tech Band from East London

2. The Nand - Chinese Pop Music Group around 2001


1. NAND emerges under the needle and in the flesh with a protean sound epitomised by a collision of technoid electro, disco elements and melodic distorted synths. In both studio and live performance, their nebulous musical frontier is propelled by a galleon of analogue synthesisers, warped live bass and mangled homebrew analogue FX units. They amalgamate various electronic dance genres, incorporating cutting edge and vintage hardware to achieve a new take on the emerging electro-tech genre.

Formed by Dj Hehtz and Gray Skull Polar in 2008 and later joined by thumb-in-groove bass player 5Pockets in 2010, culminating in the current NAND production and performance trio.  Hehtz (a.k.a. Operator), sequencer and sample triggering, cut his teeth dj’ing Drum & Bass europe-wide in various clubs and pirate radio stations during the nineties as Dj Ferro. 
Gray Skull Polar (a.k.a. Modulator), live synths and FX, nurturing an obsession for electro music and analogue modular synths that began with Sydney-based Ohrwurm project in 1999.
5Pockets (a.k.a. Generator), synth grooves and basslines, is a music addicted tech head,playing bass since the nineties in various bands such as Holly Lowe, Myernark, QDos, etc.

Recently NAND coalesced their production powers to produce their debut ‘Dead Ray’ EP, released as a DJ friendly exclusive 12” vinyl on Skullthread Records and was soon followed by the release of their ‘Dead Ray’ music video, directed by friend and film maker Al Mackay.



2.The Nand (also known as Yufeimen) is a great Guangzhou-based electronic music band, which is made up of three young people – Jiangfan, lead singer, Sanshao, lyricist, composer and vocalist, and Aqing, producer and guitar player.

With the great success of their first EP Do What You Want in 2001 and their first album 01 in 2002, Yufeimen has moved from an underground original band to an original band with a great reputation. Since they joined Square Entertainment in April, 2003, they have been concentrated on producing their second album 10Paradise.

Supported by Square Entertainment, Yufeimen had the chances to work together with some top music producers from America, England, Germany, and Australia, in addition, received quite good comments from them. A single Noon in their new album, mixed by a world-famous producer Ken Lewis, has already been awarded by several local music organizations. This significant album 10Paradise, bringing a new style Chinese pop music to the world, is going to be officially published in November.

Yufeimen’s music is simple, facile yet highly addictive with strong and buoyant rhythms. They are not going to change anything by music but to express some ideas or feelings of themselves about life in the city, which makes them different from the other bands. We cannot find a better word to describe their music, "city electron", as some people said. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nand">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.