There are several artists called Napalm:
(1) Thrash metal trio from New York. 
(2) Napalm records hardcore techno/speedcore artists 
(3) A punk band from Hamburg, active in the early 80s.
(4) A French black metal band
(5) Hc punk band from Japan.

1) Originally known as Combat, the thrash trio Napalm managed to secure a record deal with Combat Records (no relation, but the label forced the name change to Napalm) and their first release was a self-titled EP in 1986 as part of Combat's Bootcamp series. Arguably the best release from the band, the EP was an energetic thrashfest and one of the better sellers of the series, but despite already having a longer-term deal with Combat, band and label couldn't see eye to eye and the original lineup folded. Bassist Chris Wiedner recruited a brand-new lineup, but Combat nullified the contract, and so it was SPV who eventually released Napalm's first full-length album, Cruel Tranquility in 1989. Wiedner himself was ousted from the band shortly thereafter, and by the time of 1990's Zero To Black the style was less thrash and more power metal based, the least representative of the band's style and attitude. In 1992, vocalist/guitarist Chris Liggio (aka. Krztoff) and guitarist Jeff Lombardi went onto create industrial metal band Bile with E-X-E bassist, R.H. Bear. Though the band known as Napalm is no longer active, the Rossbach brothers (the other two-thirds of the original Combat EP lineup) are still active in the music scene, having resurrected the old Combat name and occasionally play in the NYC area.

2) Napalm isn't an artist as such, its an umbrella name for the artists such as BC Kid, Claudius and The Speed Freak that record anonymously on the Napalm label. When tracks from Napalm releases have appeared on compilation or mix cds, the compilers have used 'Napalm' as an artist simply because there was no other artist information to use.

3) Napalm from Hamburg released only two 7 inches but was one of the early important Hamburg Punk bands.  they had a reunion show in 2010 and played a few gigs around Europe in 2011.

(5) Japanese noisy hc band.They played from 1984 till 1986.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Napalm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.