Nappy Roots are an American hip hop sextet that originated in Kentucky in 1995, best known for their hit 2002 single "Awnaw". Their music can be categorized as alternative Southern rap.

The members of the group met while studying at Western Kentucky University in Bowling Green, Kentucky. The group consists of Kentucky and Oakland, California natives Skinny DeVille, B. Stille, Ron Clutch, Big V, R. Prophet, and Fishscales. 

Their debut album Country Fried Cess was released in 1998. Eventually, they were signed to the major label Atlantic Records and rose to fame with their first album on the label, 2002's Watermelon, Chicken & Gritz. The album featured the singles "Headz up", "Awnaw" (whose remix featured Marcos Curiel), and "Po' Folks" (featuring Anthony Hamilton). Their next album Wooden Leather, released in 2003, featured the singles "Roun' the Globe" and "Sick and Tired" (featuring Anthony Hamilton). This critically acclaimed, major label follow up album, "Wooden Leather" featured production from Kanye West, David Banner and Lil Jon.

Since the release of Wooden Leather they are back to being independent artists, and have started their own label, N.R.E.G (Nappy Roots Entertainment Group) with distribution through Fontana/Universal Music Group. On July 31, 2007, they released their first album as independent artists, Innerstate Music featuring singles "Good Day" and "Keep It Real". This was actually an internet album, similar to a modern day mixtape. It was intended to be a precursor to their 2008 album, The Humdinger  which was released on August 5th 2008.

In 2008, the Nappy Roots returned to the spotlight with an internet campaign targeting the mega-popular hip-hop sites such as Allhiphop, HiphopDX, Sohh, 2dopeboyz, Dubcnn, XXL Mag and BallerStatus, etc.[3] The critically-acclaimed album, The Humdinger features guest appearances from Anthony Hamilton, Greg Nice, Greg Street and Slick & Rose, with production from Sol Messiah, Groove Chambers, Big Al, Joe Hop and more. The Humdinger entered the Billboard Rap Charts at #7 and R&B/Hip-Hop Albums at #13.

Nappy Roots last toured across the country on the "Pursuit of Nappyness" tour. Fish Scales, Skinny DeVille, and Big V began their Humdinger Winter Tour on January 14, 2009 in Chicago, IL.

In 2009, NREG anticipates the release of 40 Akerz from Fish Scales and Skinny DeVille as well as an independent project from Big V.

Nappy Roots will kick off 2010 with their highly anticipated new album, "Pursuit of Nappiness", due to release April 20, 2010. The album will feature songs produced by a quickly emerging production duo from Atlanta, GA by the name of Phivestarr Productions. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nappy+Roots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.