Disclaimer:  Narada Music like Windham Hill are music labels and Narada radio is what now is no longer provided via Narada.com's website.  Please do not confuse Narada Michael Waldon with Narada Music.  Narada Michael Waldon is a music artist; an individual.  

Narada…World Class, World View, World Vision

Narada is world renowned as one of the leaders in defining and establishing new instrumental and world music. Distinguished by superb craftsmanship, high production values and, most importantly, creative integrity, its roster of artists and catalog of music are evolving to accommodate both a changing market and the cutting edge of new music.

Founded in 1983 as a quality alternative to traditional musical options, Narada has become a tastemaker in world, Celtic, new flamenco, jazz, new age, acoustic guitar and piano genres. Narada’s diverse artist roster offers a broad range of individual musical outlooks including jazz keyboardists Ramsey Lewis, and Jeff Lorber; jazz guitarists Joyce Cooling, Nick Colionne and Jeff Golub, saxmen Euge Groove, Eric Darius, and Steve Cole; vocalists Bird York and Deval Premal; urban jazz bands Incognito, Down to the Bone, and Urban Knights;  blues singer John Hammond;  bassist Tony Levin;  world music artists Lila Downs and Juan-Carlos Formell.

Narada and its affiliated companies were purchased by EMI/Virgin Records America in 1997.  Since then, Narada has continued to expand its musical offerings, becoming the principal US licensee for Peter Gabriel's Real World Records. We have also developed our affiliated label, Back Porch (roots rock, alt country, Americana, singer-songwriters). In 2004, the esteemed new age label Higher Octave joined our family. In all, the combined catalog of recordings exceeds 850 titles. In 2005, we are proud to have Narada's labels become affiliated with EMI's prestigious Blue Note Label Group (Blue Note, Manhattan, Angel, Metro Blue). 

A Narada Standard of Excellence
In our ongoing commitment to audio excellence, Narada uses a high definition digital audio mastering process where background noise and distortion are virtually eliminated. The result is recordings with maximum detail and clarity -- a truly natural sound. 

Background

Founded in 1983, the independent record label released its first two albums that year, a pair of solo piano recording by Michael Jones (PIANOSCAPES) and David Lanz (HEARTSOUNDS).

Narada’s commercial success and artistic stature both have grown dramatically since that modest beginning. Twice Billboard magazine has recognized Narada as the No. 1 adult alternative-new age record company in the North American music industry.

Narada has earned this distinction by successfully accomplishing two goals: 1) Providing listeners with a quality alternative to traditional musical options and 2) Demonstrating that the arts, and music in particular, can contribute positively and meaningful to humanity’s goal of achieving a brighter, healthier, and more peaceful future.

Today Narada works with an artist roster that includes more than two-dozen talented musicians from around the world. The Narada label itself has a fine catalog of recordings exceeding 500 titles. Narada’s music is distinguished by its craftsmanship, its high production values, and, most importantly, its ability to touch hearts and stir imaginations.

Approach

Narada is a company that values both continuity and diversity in its creative endeavors. The common thread running though all of Narada’s activities is commitment to quality – in presenting the cutting edge of new music, in studio production values, in album artwork, in material components, and most of all, in the heartfelt nature of its music.

Narada’s instrumental music occupies a distinctive position on the contemporary musical landscape. While it is influenced by many idioms – jazz, world, folk, rock, pop and classical music – the music of Narada’s artists articulates a new, refined musical voice, one that appeals to individuals who possess sophisticated tastes and an interest in fresh musical ideas. Narada’s music exudes a quality of craftsmanship that touches the hearts and minds of listeners in a lasting fashion. Beyond helping people feel good, Narada also hopes its music can do good things. While music alone cannot change the world, Narada hopes that its unique musical perspective can add an artistic sensibility to the important issues that will influence the quality of our lives. We focus our efforts not only on music, but also ideas. The label feels that the arts, and music in particular, can contribute as significantly to our social dialogue as the scientific, economic, or political communities.

The music industry is sometimes criticized by those who feel that record companies offer material that is socially detrimental. Narada though is dedicated to pursing a positive, constructive approach to the art of music. Narada will continue to affiliate its music with organizations that are committed to creating a better quality of life and a brighter world tomorrow.

For its part, Narada remains committed to nurturing the finest in contemporary music – music created by some of the most imaginative, sensitive, and expressive artists in the world. Sophisticated. Innovative. Heartfelt. Progressive.

What Lies Ahead For Narada

Narada celebrates nearly 25 years of contributions to adult music entertainment.  Together with the EMI's Blue Note Label Group , there is vision of a bright future ahead. Blue Note is an outstanding organization for Narada, sharing the commitment to creativity and artistic integrity. EMI, Blue Note, and Narada are working together to ensure continued success and growth for the label and its artists worldwide.

Narada is well positioned to serve the needs of adult music listeners who will continue to demand quality, innovation and imagination in their music choices. Narada has developed a reputation for creating music that touches listeners’ hearts and stirs their own creative instincts. In a world of increasingly refined technology, few products have the capacity to evoke the fullest potential from this technology as Narada recordings. It is our goal to use art to help fulfill technology’s greatest promises.

Narada In The Digital Age 

Narada music is now available online from several legitimate download services. The best of Jazz, World, Americana, and New Age are just a few clicks away!  Search for your favorite Narada artists, songs, and albums.

In close cooperation with the publishers and artists, we are quickly making Narada music available to you. The initial enthusiasm for downloading our music has been fantastic – hearty thanks to everyone who is accessing these new music services. Thousands of Narada tracks are online now and every week more and more of our repertoire is being posted. Check back often!

To contact Narada:
Narada Productions, Inc.
The Blue Note Label Group
150 Fifth Avenue, 6th Floor
New York, NY 10011
P: 212-786-8600
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Narada">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.