NARCOTIC SELF 
came onto a scene saturated with indie rock, and at the time, what the rock media refers to as "new-metal". With a huge buzz created from the band only by performing in front of gathering crowds at weekly practices, NARCOTIC SELF's first live performance at the legendary Ranch Bowl Entertainment Center awoke an electricity in the Omaha music scene that was starving for something new. The band performed for a packed house with an addictive energy that fueled the whole crowd into pits of fury. A new 
sound of melodic, thrash metal, with strangely organized song structures, illustrative lyrics, and off beat time signatures immediately caught the attention of larger and larger crowds. 

After the bands debut album "The Anti-Narcotics Movement" was released in early 2002, already the word had begun to spread to neighboring towns and cities. "The Anti-Narcotics Movement" was an assault upon all senses. Taking listeners on a journey rarely traveled in the metal music industry. The bands 
shows became more and more talked about, advertised, and reviewed by local and regional newspapers, and online forums and magazines. 2004 marked the year of the band second independent release "Falling Distance". A full length statement that the band was here to push the envelope at any and all costs, 
with no signs of slowing down or compromise.

Soon the band began to grow within itself. Adding a second guitar player, developing new songs, and refining all it's original styles and sounds, the band would continue to gain recognition extremely fast. Along with growing musically, the band would next go thru a lineup change. A new rhythm section (bass, and drummer) would begin to turn heads on an even larger scale. Within this time the band had created a reputation for one of the most intense and tightest live performances in the region. Gaining performance slots with many well recognized national acts.  

NARCOTIC SELF next became one of the first and only original metal acts in the Midwest to get sponsored by liquor giants JAGERMEISTER. Soon the band would go onto do shows exceeding numbers of 3000 people still without any help or backing from "the music industry." Today you may come across NARCOTIC SELF's distinct "circular NS bone logo" on the back of a T-shirt anywhere from Coast to Coast!

With Omaha Ne exploding musically with national and
international recognition due to artists and labels popping up like Sattle Creek Records, the band was once again caught against the grain within it own music scene. 

In 2006 NARCOTIC SELF would release their heaviest and widest selling record to date! "Blood and Poison" is aredefinition of the bands earlier attempts create heavy metal with old school roots, good musician ship, and catchy songs that long stick with you after hearing them. While retaining an original sound, the band came together and independently created "Blood and Poison" without high dollar recording studios, 
producers, or recording tricks. Tracks like "Killing You" and "Who Will Save U Now" deliver a brutal heaviness with choruses that question ones own well being. The record progresses into songs like "Tell No One" and "Illusion" that really show a commercial yet experimental element of the band.

With the "Blood and Poison" release still on the rise, NARCOTIC SELF is still driving forward at full steam. The band has continued to sell out shows in the Midwest and gain regular rotation on many internet radio stations, along with the Midwest's most powerful 100 thousand watt independent "Blow torch" of a radio station KIWR 89.7 The River. 
Narcotic Self are proud to annonce yet again that they have been nominated for an Omaha Entertainment Award for "Best Hard Rock/Metal Band of 2007!"
Be on the lookout for a NEW RELEASE and extensive touring sometime in 2008! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Narcotic+Self">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.