1) Narnia is a heavy metal/power metal band from Sweden
2) Narnia was a British folk band who recorded his sole eponymous album in 1974.

1) Narnia is a heavy metal/power metal band from Sweden from 1996. Their trademarks are their generally fast tempo, uplifting vocals, and the neo-classical playing style of guitarist Carl Johan Grimmark. In 2008 vocalist Christian Liljegren left the band for personal reasons. Narnia then recruited singer German Pasqual to finish the album Course of a Generation, and the tour that followed. In the first days of 2010 Grimmark made the decision to put Narnia to rest.

The break lasted for four years. In late 2013 CJ Grimmark & Christian Liljegren started discussing a possible reunion and the idea of making the best and strongest Narnia album ever. On January 31, 2014, the band announced it’s return. Celebrating the 15th anniversary of the classic album Long Live the King,

On the new self-titled 2016 album Narnia re-visits their melodic roots but with an updated sound, creating a perfect blend. A powerful production by CJ Grimmark, mixed and mastered by Thomas “Plec” Johansson.

The line-up for Narnia 2016:
Christian Liljegren Vocals
CJ Grimmark Guitars, keyboards & backing vocals
Andreas “Habo” Johansson Drums
Martin Härenstam Keyboards
Andreas Passmark Bass

On a side note, former lead singer Christian Rivel runs the Swedish record label Rivel Records, which features mainly melodic/heavy metal, but has also released CDs from anomalies such as the black-metal band Crimson Moonlight.

2) Narnia was a British folk band who recorded his sole eponymous album in 1974.
Hyped up by dealers worldwide as a masterpiece of acid-folk, this has a few arresting moments, but is generally overestimated. The main problem is the compositions, which do not render anything not heard before elsewhere. At worst they are trite and lacking of depth, at best they are agreeable as on Agape and on by far the best track Living Water. The playing is good, while the lyrics have strong religious undertones. Pauline Filby sings very well, but often sounds uncomfortably like Dusty Springfield while the overall sound is reminiscent of The Seekers. The most positive effect of this album could be that one may want to re-read the excellent Narnia Cycle by C.S. Lewis.

In June 1972 the band Agape formed featured John Russell and Pauline Filby. Filby had been married for some time to Jack Filby who was a vicar. They formed a folk duo after their marriage and lived in Cliff Richard's home in Essex, which was a Christian Arts Centre. Pauline had been a folk singer for a few years before she married.

(Quote from "The Tapestry of delights" book by V. Joynson) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Narnia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.