1. In the summer of 2011 co-founders Juhani and Niko started jamming together and afterwards decided to start putting together a groove metal band called "Nightmare Intruder".

2. In the spring of 2012 lead guitarist Aleksi Kavén joined the band.

3. Couple of months later Aleksi suggested that his friend from work - Juuso Hörkkö - would like to come and try out as the bands vocalist.

4. Juuso never started out as a vocalist, but instead in fall of the same year he took on the duties of the bands bass player.

5. In the end of 2012 the band was renamed "Naslow". The idea for the name originally came from a "LOUNAS"-sign (finnish for "lunch") which was located right outside of the bands rehearsal space.

6. Early on in 2013 the band recorded their first three songs and released them in Youtube and Soundcloud simply as "2013 Demo".

7. Right after the recordings Naslow got it's first gig when it took part in Turku Bandstand 2013.

8. In the summer of 2013 the sound of Naslow started changing more into the style of metalcore and melodic metal than the original groove metal.

9. Because of this change the lead guitarist Aleksi Kavén decided to part ways with the band.

10. Naslow played a couple of gigs after that as a trio.

11. In the fall of 2013 a new lead guitarist was found when Taavi Lindfors joined the band.

12. Around the same time, because of the change of style, the band decided to look for a scream-vocalist and not long after they were contacted by Mika Pääskynen. He immediately joined the band.

13. Due to lack of time Mika was forced to make the decision to leave the band.

14. Not long after that Jarno Virkki asked Juhani if he could come and try out as the new scream-vocalist for Naslow and after the first practice the band welcomed him into their ranks.

15. During the spring and summer of 2014 Naslow recorded their first EP with the new line-up and released it in September 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Naslow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.