Nasum was a grindcore band from Örebro, Sweden.

The band was formed during the later part of 1992 by Anders Jakobson (guitar) and Rickard Alriksson (drums/vocals) as a sideproject to the death metal band Necrony. The idea was to create true grindcore in the vein of old Napalm Death. 

Spring 1993: Necrony's homelabel, German Poserslaughter Records offered Nasum to share a 7" EP with Australian goregrinders Blood Duster. Nasum accepted the offer, but in time the record turned out to be a Nasum/Agathocles split-7" EP.

Two weeks before the first Nasum recording, another guitarist (Mieszko Talarczyk) was added. Together the band completed six tracks that were recorded at Unisound Studios in July 1993. The tracks were later released as the "Blind World" split-7" EP with Agathocles.

Awaiting the release of the EP, a tape with the songs were sent out to different labels with the intention to pick up more offers for EP:s etc. Nasum recieved two positive answers; one offering a split-7" EP with Psycho on their label Ax/ction Records, but also an opportunity to participate on the well-reputated Swedish hardcore comp-LP "Really Fast"'s 9th volume.

In November 1993 it was time for another trip to Unisound to record ten tracks; nine for the "Really Fast Vol 9" LP and one for Mieszko's comp-tape - "Corpse Flesh Genitals"' - second volume. Apparently, the track - entitled as the compilation - and the second volume ended up unreleased. The nine tracks (in all clocking 3.30!) contained a more grind/crust-inspired approach compaired to the grind/death kind of sound on the first recording, and the songs pointed out the future musical direction of Nasum.

While dealing with Ax/ction Records, Mieszko decided to start his own label - Grindwork Productions - with a friend. As the label's first release a four-way split-3" MCD was planned, including Nasum, Retaliation (Swe), Clotted Symmetric Sexual Organ (Jap) and Vivisection (Jap).

Eventually, Nasum yet again went to Unisound in September 1994, this time to record sixteen new tracks; eight which ended up on the "Smile When You're Dead" split-7" EP with Psycho and eight for the "Grindwork" split-3" MCD. On this recording the music took of where the preceding recording ended, but with a much heavier sound, changing the tuning from D to B.

Inspired by Sweden's Regurgitate the next event in Nasum history was to record a demo, after two split-7" EP:s and two compilations! With a possibility to make a recording for free in a local studio, ten songs were written in a rush, and together with two re-recordings from the first two recordings and two covers, the songs were recorded as the "Domedagen" demo in November 1994. Since the recording was made in co-operation with unexperienced students learning to be sound engineers, the sound turned out dark and muddy and obviously half of the new material turned out bad because of the rush.

After two and a half years it was finally time for a record of their own as Poserslaughter Records offered a MCD. In February 1995 Nasum went to Unisound for the last time to record eighteen songs; twelve brand new ones and six re-recordings of the best songs from the "Domedagen" demo. One different detail from the previous recording was that fifteen of the songs included Swedish lyrics, although Nasum used lyrics in their native language on three tracks on the demo. The title of the MCD was "Industrislaven".

In connection with the release of the MCD (September 1995), Poserslaughter invited Nasum to Berlin for a concert with labelmates Dead and Manos who released some records at the same time. Also a gig in southern Sweden were booked the day before. This led to some trouble as Rickard announced that he didn't want to do shows. Mieszko and Anders then got in touch with Per Karlsson (then a member of Suffer) who accepted the conditions for the "tour". So Nasum did their stage debute in Åstorp, Sweden, together with Kurbits I.R., Arsedestroyer and Mentally Unstable, September 16th and then played in Berlin the day after with Dead and Manos.

This was the very end of Rickard's time in Nasum. He didn't share the same enthusiasm for the music and the lyrics as Mieszko and Anders, so he decided to quit. After an audition that didn't work out, Anders decided to take the empty place behind the drums leaving Mieszko alone with the strings.

In November 1996 it was time for the "new" Nasum to do their first recording. Twentyfour tracks were recorded - eight for "The Black Illusions" (a split-7" EP with Abstain released by Yellow Dog Records, Germany in 1998) and sixteen for Nasum's first full-7" EP - "World In Turmoil", released by Blurred Records, Japan. This mighty recording was made in Nasum's rehearsalplace on a 8-tracker with a friend behind the soundboard. Although the conditions, this became Nasum's most brutal and rawest production up to date. The line-up was: Mieszko - guitar/vocals and Anders - drums/bass/vocals.

June 1997, time for the seventh Nasum recording and this time 17 tracks were put on tape in Mieszko's own studio Soundlab. 16 tracks were recorded for an international grindcore/power violence compilation CD ("Regressive Hostility", released by Finnish Hostile Regression Records 1998). The seventeenth track was Discharge's "Vision Of War" recorded for a Scandinavian tribute to Discharge, released by Swedish Distortion Records a couple of years later. The complete recording was one of Nasum's best so far, hard hitting songs with a killer production.

A tape with the songs was sent to American Relapse Records who, according to themselves, were "psyched" and wanted to sign the band for a fullength album. Nasum accepted at once and worked hard the whole fall of 1997 with the songs for the album, and in December Nasum once again entered Soundlab Studios to record what would be the "Inhale/Exhale" album.

42 new songs were put on tape over a two month period, of which 38 ended up on the final product. Even harder and more varied than before, Nasum brought some new blood to the grindcore style. In connection with the 42 songs, Nasum recorded 4 cover songs that was released as a bonus 7" in the vinyl version of "Inhale/Exhale" by Distortion Records in the fall of 1999.

November 1998: Yet another visit to Soundlab Studios to record eight new tracks, four which were sent to Relapse to be used on compilations and eventually a split 7" EP with Warhate. The other four songs (clocking in at 1.20 minutes) were recorded only to appear on a split 5" EP together with three other split 5" EP's in a very interesting box set "Better off dead" which was to be released by Clean Plate Records. That never happened.

After almost four years as a duo Nasum felt that it was time to expand the line-up with a bassplayer, since the offers for shows and tours started pouring in more frequently. In the spring of 1999 Jesper Liveröd (Burst) was tested and taken into the band.

This was the start of a new era since Relapse not only offered Nasum to fly to USA to appear on the 13th Milwaukee Metalfest, but also to appear on a tour with four other Relapse acts following the festival.

Summer 1999: After months if intense rehearsals the "new" Nasum debuted live on the Relapse stage at the Metalfest, almost four years since the last show in Berlin, Germany. Directly after the festival, Nasum did 10 more shows in the middle and east states as part of the Contamination 1999 tour with labelmates Today Is The Day, Soilent Green, Exhumed and Morgion.

Nasum 2000. The Mark 5 line-up: Jesper - bass, Mieszko - guitar/lead vocals and Anders - drums/vocals.

Fall 1999: Following the tour, Nasum wrote new songs and rehearsed intensly for six weeks before the recording of the second album started. This time Nasum devided the recording into two sessions, the first session in early October and the second one in late November/early December.

The new songs showed a wider range of sounds compaired to the old material. Impressions picked up during the time in the states expanded the dynamic style of Nasum to a more varied version, with an addition of even more true grindcore. 31 songs were recorded, of which 25 ended up on the album, making it a shorter album with less, but longer songs compaired to it's predecessor.

The album - "Human 2.0" - was released by Relapse Records during April 2000.

In the middle of the recording, Nasum started to do shows in Sweden, with an appearence on a punk/HC festival in Umeå (way up north in Sweden). Later on, early January 2000, Nasum played in their hometown Örebro, with Entombed, and in March Nasum did a weekend-tour with Skitsystem.

Spring 2000: In between doing shows in Sweden Nasum recorded the song "Tools of the Trade" for a Carcass-tribute.

Summer 2000: Nasum did a couple of festivals, most memorable headlining the Fuck the Commerce III-festival in Germany and performing at the classic Hultsfred-festival in Sweden. Nasum also played with Napalm Death at the Dist 2000-festival in Forshaga, Sweden. By the end of the summer, Nasum recorded five new songs for the split 7" EP with Asterisk*.

Fall 2000: Nasum did a seven week European tour supporting Napalm Death. Eight countries (France, Spain, Switzerland, Italy, Czech Republic, Germany, Holland and Belgium) and forty shows. Nasum had an online tour diary, which was updated while on tour. Only four days after the tour's last show, Nasum did their final show of 2000 in Gothenburg, Sweden, with Obligatorisk Tortyr and Mindsnare.

Spring 2001: After not touching their instruments for over two months, Nasum rehearsed a few times and went out on a 14 days/14 shows tour together with The Haunted and Nine, doing 12 shows all over Sweden and one in Copenhagen (Denmark) and one in Oslo (Norway). The tour was a success, with a lot of media attention - features in the big newspapers, live recordings for the national radio and a 30-minute feature on national television (with all three bands). The toured showed that there are a big interest for harder music in Sweden (the show in Nasum's hometown Örebro was totally sold out - 560 people).

Summer 2001: Cooling down after the intense spring tour, Nasum wrote a couple of new songs and got into the studio in May to record eight new songs, five for a split 7" EP with Skitsystem and three for the Swedish "Polar Grinder" compilation LP. The rest of the summer was spent on four festival shows in four countries, starting with the annual Arvikafestivalen in Sweden followed by an appearance at the Knock Out-festival in Switzerland. The biggest show during the summer was without doubt the Wacken Open Air in Germany where Nasum played at the Party stage in front of several thousands of people. The summer festivals tour then concluded with a return to the Milwaukkee Metalfest in the USA.

Fall 2001: Another fall and another continent to visit - Nasum took part of the "Extreme the Dojo"-tour in Japan together with jazzy hardcore-rockers Candiria and the brutal deathmachine Cryptopsy. During three dates in Osaka, Nagoya and Tokyo this line up made the dojo extreme with different kind of underground music. Meeting the Japanese fans for the first time was a pleasure for Nasum and the tour was a great success for all parts.

Spring 2002: After a pretty long break from everything Nasum flew to England and shared a nightliner with The Dillinger Escape Plan and Rabies Caste doing six shows together in England, Ireland and Scotland during a week in May. Playing for the fans in this part of Europe was something Nasum had been waiting to do for a long time.

Summer and fall 2002: During the late summer Nasum started to write and rehearse songs for the third album, having just a short break in October to do two shows in Sweden (Stockholm and Örebro) with old friends Nine, Skitsystem, Daybreak and Relevant Few.

Fall and winter 2002/2003: Nasum got into the studio and recorded the third album, entitled "Helvete" (Swedish for "Hell"). The recording was documented weekly in an illustrated studio diary on the website. Nasum was joined briefly by Shane Embury of Napalm Death and Jörgen Sandström of Entombed, playing bass and singing on some songs. Some local guests also appeared in the studio, the original drummer/singer Rickard Alriksson and Petter Freed of 2 Ton Predator came into the studio for some additional guitar noise.

The third fullength from Nasum turned out to be a hellish album taking the "Human 2.0" style even further in it's variety, this time with a fullblown and powerful production, such the music of Nasum demands. Clocking in at 35.16, "Helvete" included 22 strong songs.

Spring 2003: Avaiting the release of "Helvete" Nasum took the ferry to Finland for a short tour with fellow grinders Rotten Sound. Another country to add to the list. In May "Helvete" was released in Japan (by Ritual/Howling Bull again) the 8th, in USA (by Relapse) the 13th and in Europe (also by Relapse) the 19th.

Starting with the releaseparty for "Helvete", Nasum was now a four piece, at least live. Urban Skytt from Regurgitate joined the band on the vacant second guitar spot.

Summer 2003: Nasum played at some of the more important festivals in Sweden, starting with the infamous Hultsfredsfestival, where Nasum now played at a bigger stage compaired to the 2000 show, further on to the Arvikafestival (again at a bigger stage compaired to the 2001 show) and ending at the Augustibuller festival which also happened to be the last show Jesper did with Nasum.

Jesper had even before "Helvete" was released announced to the other members in Nasum that he had decided to leave the band after the summer, to concentrate more on his other band Burst, who also released an album on Relapse during 2003.

Fall 2003: A replacement for Jesper was found in Jon Lindqvist, a long time fan of Nasum and friend of the band. Jon, who also plays in bands like Sayyadina, Acursed and Victims, joined after only one audition and quickly became a full Nasum member alongside Urban who also joined the band as more than a live guitarist.

The new line up debuted at a show in Uppsala together with Tragedy. Parts of the show was filmed by Swedish TV who did a feature about Nasum in the music show "Studio Pop". Nasum continued to establish the new line up with four more shows in Sweden before 2003 ended.

Winter 2004: Nasum went for a second tour in Japan with Napalm Death, Anal Cunt and Pig Destroyer in the seventh volume of the "Extreme the Dojo" tourpackage. A double pleasure this time, since it was great for Nasum to meet up with the Japanese fans and friends and also meet and tour with Napalm Death again.

Back in Sweden Nasum attened two award ceremonies since "Helvete" had been nominated for best metal album of 2003. First of was the P3 Guld awards, which is the Swedish National Radio's award for new music. Nasum went to the award ceremony in Gothenburg and won the price! Just one week later Nasum went to Stockholm to take part of the Manifest award, which is the independent labels' Grammy award, and again Nasum won the price!

Spring 2004: In frustation from a cancelled "Helvete" tour (slated for the fall of 2003) and inspirered by a new record deal with European, Swedish and even local label Burning Heart Records Nasum suprisingly, and secretly decided to do a new album. While the new deal, which also included licensing to Relapse in the US and to Ritual/Howling Bull in Japan, was worked out Nasum wrote and rehearsed new songs.

Summer 2004: Unlike any other album recording, Nasum spent a month in Soundlab Studios during the hot season creating what would become the fourth album "Shift", a title chosen to pinpoint the changes the band had been through. While a load of new songs had been written, including stuff by the two new members, two old songs eventually made it to the album. One being a reworked leftover from the "Helvete" session, one being a personal favorite from the Abstain split 7" EP. Yet again, some friends were invited into the studio to add something extra, 2 Ton Predator's Petter Freed played some solos and Rogga Johansson put down all the low vocals.

Just before, during and after the recording Nasum went to different festivals including a second visit to "Fuck The Commerce", the huge Finnish festival "Tuska Open Air" and a gigantic free of charge show in Gothenburg. By that time the new deal was complete and Nasum could as a total surprise for most people announce the change of record label and the new album.

Fall 2004: Awaiting the release of the album, Nasum recorded their first promotional video ever. The song chosen was the mid paced Carcass reminiscing "Wrath". The video was show at the classic Stockholm club Kafé 44 with some extras dressed in white coveralls and gasmaskes.

"Shift" was released mid October and Nasum embarked on their first headlining European tour just a few days after the release. Starting in Stockholm, the four weeks on tour took Nasum through Germany, Holland, England, Scotland, Belgium, France, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Austria and finally Denmark. Before 2004 was over Nasum managed to do one show in Sweden and one in Cremona, Italy together with Regurgitate, Cripple Bastards and Yaecopse.

The year ended with high hopes of the future. A new recording was planned, a Swedish tour under consideration and new trips to the USA and Europe, not forgetting Nasum's most exciting show to date: an appearence at 2005's P3 Guld award show to be aired live in national radio and TV...

In late December 2004, lead singer/guitarist Mieszko Talarczyk was reported missing as a result of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, according to a statement by Jakobson through Nasum.com, the day after the disaster. On 17 February 2005 it was confirmed that his body was identified, during which time the remaining Nasum members already had faced the facts and decided to end the band. Nasum attended the P3 Guld awards only as nominees again for best metal album, and the hostess read a statement from the band ending in a wish to celebrate all victims, survivors and heroes from the Tsunami with a big applause.

Mieszko was buried the 30th of March.

Anders Jakobson (the only remaining founding member), put all his energy into the making of the 2CD compilation Grind Finale through the second half of 2005. The Grind Finale was released by Unrest Records as 4x12" in October 2005 and Relapse Records later released the cd version as well. Jakobson also got together with fellow Krigshot members during the second half of 2005 and released the last full length of Krigshot called "Till vilket pris som helst". Jakobson later made a decision to return to the scene, with his new death metal band Coldworker, which released their debut in October 2006, and is getting ready to release the second album "Rotting Paradise" in early May 2008. 

On March 4 2008, Relapse Records released a split with Napalm Death called Doombringer, that includes Nasum's live recordings in Osaka, Japan.

In November 2011 Nasum confirmed that they would make one final tour to mark 20 years of existence. The tour will take place in 2012 and Keijo Niinimaa from their Finnish grindcore allies Rotten Sound will replace the deceased Mieszko Talarczyk on the vocals. After that the surviving members will put Nasum to a final rest. On October 6th 2012, Nasum played their final show ever at Stockholm's Debaser Medis with Black Breath and Skitsystem.

Whereas the saga of Nasum as a fully active band now ends, Nasum will always be alive through their music, captured on many pieces of vinyl or plastic. Even though more records might appear, the story of Nasum ends right here, right now... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nasum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.