There are more than one artist with this name:

   In just a handful of years, Northwestern Indiana’s Native have quietly built themselves a large word-of-mouth following in the underground as an incendiary live act. The iconoclast group’s impeccable musicianship, ominous chords, apocalyptic vocals and innovative rhythms hit with an intensity that can only be described as akin to a white-knuckle thrill ride. There’s as much suffocating darkness as there is thoughtful focus to Native’s intricate song structures and pensive lyrics. There’s a dark foreboding in the guitar lines simultaneously pushing and pulling, the whole band embracing and tearing apart musical convention with the unpredictability of a protest gone awry.

The four piece have self-released two demos and an EP in April 2008 titled "We Delete; Erase." In their first year of existence they played over 150 shows and toured four times (three times through the Midwest and once through the east coast). In October of 2008, Native signed with Sargent House and began work on their first full length album titled "Wrestling Moves." It received a digital release in November and of 2009 and a wider release in January 2010. The band toured relentlessly for the next several years. They released their sophomore album Orthodox on August 22, 2013.

For more info on the band, follow these links:
http://nativetimes.tumblr.com/
http://www.facebook.com/nativeIN
http://native.bandcamp.com/



Native 2:

Native is a rising, eclectic dance artist boasting a string of popular releases & remixes with a number of record labels including GU Music, Segment Records, Babylon Records, Swordtail Records & Pangea Recordings. His recent signings demonstrate a deep melodic style bound neatly around a fusion of rich bass grooves. With an authentic focus on quality, each track delivers a constant stream of top shelf audio that can be recognized across the globe.

Track design and stylistic influences are drawn on from some of the trades most highly recognized artists i.e. Trafik, Pole Folder, Dousk and James Holden. His material has also received quality rotation and constant support from a great number of people within the industry, (aka) Anthony Pappa, Andy Moor, DJ Taucher, Nick Warren, Trafik and many more.

Native's most recent works have made waves around the world, receiving special attention in the UK, US and Australia. His recent work with the highly talented Ani and Mark Nunan on vocals has produced some truly inspiring material, with incredible depth and emotion. Also his collaborations with Nick Galea have produced amazing results and some truly inspiring music. With a regular supply of fresh and diverse material on offer, Native has earned the respect shown by both broad-spectrum listeners and 'die hard' punters. His recent inclusions on various compilations including Global Underground's Afterhours 3 shows his musical diversity.

Native 3:

Native is a four piece Jazz Band formed in 1999 by the talented and well trained Jazz musicians Tomoyoshi Nakamura (Saxophones, Flute), Kenichi Ohkubo (Bass); Yoshitaka Yamashita (Drums) and Taichi Sugimaru (Piano).

Based in Nagoya, Japan they started to work together in 1999 and have released 3 full length albums so far through the Japanese label 'Stride'. Prior to their 1st full length album, they released two mini-albums on their own.

They have built a reputation in the Japanese Jazz & Club music scene, and their fans are coming from different backgrounds and age groups. Their highly acclaimed debut album 'Snobbism' and the 2nd full album 'Intentions' generated impressive sales and entered the Modern Jazz charts alongside other well-established Jazz artists in Japan.

Native 4:

Native is Jamaican-American reggae artist and producer Wayne Jobson. He recorded material in 1977, produced by legendary producers such as Lee 'Scratch' Perry at the Black Ark and the Hookim brothers at Channel One. These recordings were released on a compilation CD entitled 'Rockstone' in 2007.

Native 5:

Polish band, no more existing, they broke up in 2004. They're from Wałbrzych, released 1 demo CD containing 4 tracks. They were saying "We play huj metal"...and that rocks! 

Native 6:

Native is a French  R&B band. In 1994, they won a Victoire de la musique award for most promising group of the year. They featured on a the track, Who The F*** Is This on the album Bubba Sparxxx & The Muddkatz - New South: The Album B4 The Album Mixtape (2003). They also participated in the French version of the Disney's Pocahontas film soundtrack.

Native 7:

Native is a stage name used by indie pop-folk musician and songwriter, probably the best known so far for his self-released 2018 EP "Departure". He continues recording in 2019 and releases the singles "The Night Is Still Young" or "Guilty" (on label Backseat). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Native">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.