Nauseahtake was formed by Nemo and Elder around the year 2008 in Amsterdam. Two Italians who came together from Napoli to the Lowlands (without thinking too much about it) some years before establishing the identity of the project that was growing inside their souls.

From formation to incubation, Nemo (at this moment being the live bass guitarist for the band Anatomy of I) and Elder met two other characters on their journey. One of them, Tedo, was by that time already a veteran guitarist for the gorilla-rock band Moonaddict, bass guitarist for the (now disbanded) metalcore band THISWILLKILLYOU and rapper/beat producer for the Dutch hiphop crew Rijmfabriek (Rhyme Factory). The other, Djox, was an independent artist and illustrator with a musical background in keys. The four became friends and a couple of years later the friends became a 4-piece Nauseahtake.

And then came illumination.

The blue prints that existed started to take form and the sound of the band started to grow, snowballing into a grand reflection of what every member looks like in essence.

After having played for a while in an underdog rehearsal space, the opportunity arose to rent a better space with a couple of other bands (Cosmic Android, Mantra Machine, The Beachy Head Team, Moonaddict) with the possibility to get the studio equipped by the bands. In a short period the space became a recording studio and the recording of Nauseahtake’s album Laws of Multiversal Gravitation started.

During the crafting of the album the band played numerous shows, sharing the stage with bands like Psychofagist (IT), Torn from Earth (HU), Tombstones (NO), Seita (BR) and Magnacult (NL).

Nauseahtake continued working hard on the album which they recorded, produced and mixed in their studio. During this time they would play mainly improvisational live shows and occasionally a jam-turned-set by the name of Peanut-Butter and Doom Sandwich. 

In the summer of 2014 their album was finished and pressed on double heavy-weight vinyl with cover and booklet artwork done by the band, as well as a laser-etched D-side depicting a drawn interpretation of a Sumerian Demon done by Djox. 

The record was released through the band’s (phantom) label Gut-Punch Records and (apart from several record stores in The Netherlands) is being sold through the band’s Bandcamp and Discogs pages.

The bands influences include bands like Neurosis, Isis, The Melvins, Tool, Today is the Day, Swans and much more… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nauseahtake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.