Nazca is name of at least three different groups:

1. Altrock: Finnish-Norwegian indie band located in Helsinki. Active from 1998 onwards. Released two albums: "Biodegradable" and "Non Grata", one EP: "Straight hope Tissue", and a live DVD: "Free for All". Official band site: http://www.songsfornazca.com/
Somewhere in between Joy Division, Syd Barrett and Dead Kennedys

2. Avant-garde progressive rock group: Now defunct, NAZCA started off in 1980 with Alejandro Sanchez and Carlo Nicolau who were later joined by three other musicians. All five boast classical music training as well as extensive experience with various bands and/or classical music orchestras. Their compositions, which are mostly a collective affair involving improvisation, mix an equal part of RIO, classical music, avant-garde classical and ethnic (as in Mayan/Aztec/ Inca). Although their music is fascinating and absolutely unique, their coming about in the early 80’s proved fatal to the band. As Sanchez once recounts in an interview, the local crowd wasn’t very receptive to anything that wasn’t pop or mainstream back then; he even recalls some concert goers literally walking out on them, visibly irritated as they thought the band were being intentionally provocative with their music. The lack of interest from both the public and the promoters finally prompted the band to split up in 1988. They had released two studio and one live album.

Eurock describes their music as ART ZOYD and UNIVERS ZERO in a Mayan temple playing for a sacred ceremonial ritual”. NAZCA’s music indeed possesses that mysterious quality one would associate with the spirits that inhabit old Mayan temples. Although the general tone is rather subdued and mysterious, it offers an incredible variety of moods and tempos and contains almost no repetition. The surreal effects are achieved through the use of the bassoon, oboe, violin, piano, viola, cello, bass, drums and percussion - the string instruments being slightly emphasized on their second album, “Estacion De Sombra”. All of their albums are recommended, and “En Vivo” particularly so: more than a mere live rendition of studio tracks, it showcases tunes that have been significantly modified, lengthened and/or reinvented by improvisation, making the album feel like a new one altogether. It also contains previously unreleased material and has a better, richer sound than even the studio albums. (taken from http://www.progarchives.com/artist.asp?id=1995)

3. Nazca was a Hungarian metalcore-thrash metal group. It revolved around the Budapest underground from the beginning of 2002 and existed roughly until 2007. It had several mutations, including members of Locust On The Saddle, Nadir, Tenesse Bastard, Harvester, and Another Way. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nazca">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.