''Neandertahl, probably the best progressive technical death metal act you could ever hear!'' /4_miko/

http://www.myspace.com/thisisneandertahl

BIO:

As it was in the beginning, 2005 was the year born into existence, the power-house of groove and technical proficiency Neandertahl have been steadily working their way through the Local Metal gig scene. Formed originally as a creative outlet for the Raza brothers the original five piece line-up recorded their first EP ‘The Delicate Shift through Corpulence’ before setting the benchmark high as a potent energetic band noted for their groove and tightness.

Shedding a number of members along the way previous to and during the recording process for the follow-up EP ‘Aesthetics Degenerate’ the current line-up came into being and the band began to explore increased technicality and unique song structures in their writing style. 

In promoting the second EP the band toured the north of England and Ireland receiving critical acclaim and rave reviews in their wake. This period also saw them progress in their musicality which culminated in the tracks for the latest recording.

With the completion of recording for the latest EP, their path has taken an ever increasing incline into what now is to be their most prolific and abundant musical output to date.

'Their Sprawling Bodies Imperfectly Embalmed' features a more focused sound, greater level of musicianship, more infuriating structures and is all contained within one overriding central theme. A concept EP packed to the brim with riffs, grooves and solo's, this CD is technically their most proficient to date and throughout its conception was intended to be a journey through many degrees of progression, firmly anchoring itself as the new superbeast of sound that is Neandertahl's signature style.

Starting as a five piece, the band has seen a number of changes, settling with the current line-up of:

Darren Lavery (Bass,Vocals)
Aleem Raza (Lead Guitar)
Shakeel Raza(Drums)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neandertahl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.