Near Neptune was a progressive metal band from Denton, Texas, formerly known as Fierce Band!

Fierce Band! was formed in 2010 by Aaron Vernon on guitar, Luke Cadwallader-Daniel on bass and Nathan Place on drums. The band was formed out of the trio's love of Progressive Rock and Metal. Early songs from the trio were lengthy instrumentals often with silly names, the only song recorded in this era was "Mom, the Bananas Were Green" 

In 2011 the band had a shift in direction and implemented vocals and politically conscience samples into the music. From this era the 2011 Demo was put out featuring the epic "Blue Liquid Lips", said demo was remixed and re-released in early 2012 as the "Blue Liquid Lips EP". The band pushed forward in this direction, rewriting older songs and creating new songs, in April of 2012 they released a second Demo.

In August of 2012 drummer Nathan Place parted ways with the band, and Aaron and Luke began hunting for a drummer (briefly employing Sauce Ma'Gosh of Megatherian). It was around this time that Fierce Band! not only decided to change their name to Near Neptune to coincide with a more mature direction they were going to pursue but returned to being an entirely instrumental band. 

In the time down from Near Neptune in mid 2013, Erin begun two side projects, The Shards a dark ambient/dungeon synth project and Vernal Tombs a blackened doom metal band. Both projects released brief studio works on bandcamp, which much later on was released by Left Hand Path Tapes out of Denton, but both projects were ultimately shelved as Near Neptune picked up steam again.

All the while Near Neptune returned to work with putting out their debut full length Navagation but also hiring on new drummer Jeremy Doss, also briefly hiring on Nathan Fenner of Rivid on keyboards. Navagation was self-released at the end of 2013.

With a new drummer and album under their belt Near Neptune played a string of shows in North Texas to attempt to promote the album. The band went dormant in the spring of 2014, ultimately announcing that the project would become a studio only endeavor. 

Unfortunately this would be the last news from the band, as they quietly split up over winter 2014, and future plans were halted with the passing of guitarist Erin Vernon in September of 2015. 

Near Neptune was:
Erin Vernon - Guitar, Keyboards 
Luke Cadwallader-Daniel - Bass, Keyboards
Jeremy Doss - Drums     <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Near+Neptune">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.