There are multiple artists on Last.fm with the name Nebulous:

1) A British alternative rock band.
2) A British radio comedy.
3) A technical death metal band from Birmingham,AL (USA)
4) A Progressive/Math Metal band from Braga, Portugal

3) Nebulous is a technical death metal band. Formed in the summer of 2010, Nebulous is a 2 piece technical death metal band based out of Birmingham, AL. The band blends the obvious influences of Decrepit Birth, Decapitated, Origin, etc with a unique approach given by their foundation in the Birmingham DIY punk and hardcore community. With the  tragic death of their drummer Justin Beasley in October of 2011 (just weeks before the release of the 'Into Infinite Spectrums' EP), the band continued on as a 2 piece in order to release their first full length album which features 4 tracks recorded by the late drummer.

http://www.facebook.com/nebulousdeathmetal

Current Members:
Matt Rogers - Guitars
Alex Pitts - Vocals

4) Formed in northern Portugal in 2012, Nebulous evolved from past musical projects and gathers members with strong experience.
With a different approach on the Portuguese metal scene, they dive and explore the multiple forms of music, engaging their sound with heavy tunings, ambient harmonies and polyrhythms full of groove.

Snake (Vocals)
Vítor (Guitars)
Pingas (Guitars)
Rui Silva (Bass)
Marcelo Aires (Drums)

2) Nebulous is a post apocalyptic science fiction comedy written by Graham Duff and produced by Ted Dowd from Baby Cow Productions; it is directed by Nicholas Briggs. 

The series premiered in the United Kingdom on BBC Radio 4. The show focuses on the adventures of the eponymous Professor Nebulous, leader of the eco-troubleshooting team of K.E.N.T. (the Key Environmental Non-Judgmental Taskforce) as they combat various catastrophes and try and set the world back on the right path. 

As well as being a parody of a number of famous science fiction programmes, including Doctor Who, Quatermass and Doomwatch,[2] Nebulous is considered a cult radio programme, attracting a number of guest appearances from famous actors.

As of 2007, there have been two series of Nebulous; the first was broadcast between 6 January and 10 February 2005, and the second between 5 April and 10 May 2006. The first series was released on compact disc on February 5, 2007 by BBC Audio. A third series has been commissioned by the BBC and is expected to be broadcast in 2008.


1) Nebulous is a prog rock / alternative rock / grunge rock band from Godalming & East Grinstead, UK, formed in 2008

Nebulous was formed in early 2008, as two intrepid adventurers met in a cramped room in Reigate..as the sky held its breath in anticipation, e-mails began flying back and forth in the enigmatic essence that is songwriting, and seeds that had lain dormant beneath the hard wintry shell of the earth began to feel light beckoning them.

Shortly after this, a chance encounter at a coffee shop lead a third warrior into the maelstrom that was now developing on the Surrey-Sussex border.  
Ladies and Gentleman, Boys and Girls ,the Nebulous is beginning to unfold its open arms................. 

Band Members:
Alex Willis - Guitars, Henry Wickens - Drums, Stuart Whittaker - Vocals 

Official Website: http://www.nebulousband.co.uk




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nebulous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.