There are are at least seven artists named Nebula:

1) Nebula is a psychedelic / stoner rock band formed by guitarist Eddie Glass and drummer Ruben Romano upon departing Fu Manchu in 1997. Mark Abshire soon joined as the band's original bassist. Nebula have been on indefinite hiatus since early 2010 but have not broken up. In June 2019, the band released their first album since 2009, titled Holy Shit.

2) Nebula was an ambient supergroup based in Italy. Nebula was founded in 2002 as an open ensemble by Gianluigi Gasparetti (aka Oöphoi), who was joined by Klaus Wiese, Mauro Malgrande, Lorenzo Pierobon and Enrico Cosimi (aka Tau Ceti).
Their first album, Genesis, was released in 2002. It is a suite divided in several parts, from the Big Bang to the birth of man, as a symbolic representation of the creation of the universe, based on ancient Tibetan and Mayan religions.
In 2003, Mathias Grassow and Geert Verbeke joined the group, and Nebula released a second album, titled The Path of White Clouds. It is a symbolic expression of a spiritual search, from Consciousness to Illumination, inspired by a book by Lama Anagarika Govinda.
Every Nebula musician contributed freely to the music but none knew the final result, which was entrusted by Oöphoi.

3) Nebula is an unsigned Bristol based rock band. They are currently writing an recording for their debut album, which will be available on iTunes.

4) Nebula is a drum n bass producer, with releases on labels such as Scientific Wax and Subtle Audio.

5) Nebula was a black doom metal band from Šilutė/Tauragė, Lithuania, formed in 1995.

6) Nebula is an underground female Turkish rapper from Istanbul who released her debut album Nebula (Nebulan) in 2008, underground on hiphoplife.net.

7) Nebula is a Japanese hard rock 3 piece band from Japan.

Detailed biographies:

1) Nebula is a psychedelic stoner rock band. It all started when Eddie and friend Neil Blender were making weird 4 track music for skate movies like Alien Workshop's first video. He then went on to drum for Olivelawn and later on played guitar with Fu Manchu, writing some of the songs and playing lead guitar on the first three albums. In 1997 Eddie Glass and Ruben Romano decided it was time to use the whole arsenal - Guitars, Drums, Moogs, Sitars, psychedelics and formed Nebula. Tom crossed the pond in the summer of 2004 to join the Nebula ranks. With the recent addition in early 2007 of Rob Oswald, (Karma To Burn/Mondo Generator), Nebula are re-igniting the fires started in ’97. Five albums later - one on Relapse, two on Sub Pop, a couple of EP’s on Meteor City and now the long gone Mans Ruin and a long list of records with Cargo/Sweet Nothing, Nebula continues it’s long ties with the extreme sports community, featured regularly in soundtracks to movies, TV shows like Viva la Bam and Monster Garage and on video games including Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4, Tony Hawk’s Underground 2 and NHL 2007. After appearances at the X-Games, Los Angeles’ Sunset Junction Festival and numerous tours in Europe, Australia, Japan, South America and many North American tours with the likes of Mudhoney, J Mascis & The Fog and The Hellacopters, Nebula have recently returned from a month long festival tour in Europe. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nebula">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.