Formed back in 1984 and influenced by Slayer, Possessed, Kreator, Celtic Frost and Bathory, NECRODEATH released a cult-demo tape titled ‘The Shining Pentagram’ and obtained an incredible success through the underground. This first demo-release is still considered a real ‘piece of thrash/black history’! Tons of tributes in major magazines, fanzines and other underground features highlighted the release of the first two legendary albums ‘Into The Macabre’ (1987) and ‘Fragments Of Insanity’ (1989). NECRODEATH is one of the most important and outrageous names in extreme metal, a distinctive influence on modern extreme acts such as Cradle Of Filth, Mayhem, Immortal, The Haunted/At The Gates, Brutal Truth, Marduk and Desaster among others, who spotted NECRODEATH as one of the absolute fave acts in their interviews! Unfortunately after the mentioned second release several line-up problems and the unprofessional attitude of the old record label forced the band guys to suspend their activity. 
Peso (drums) started a band called NECROSADIST, now well known as SADIST and recorded ‘Above The Light’ and ‘Tribe’ albums, leaving straight afterwards for personal and musical reasons. But rumors about a NECRODEATH return started to float around…
Finally, in 1998, Peso and Claudio raised-up from the ashes the first and only black/thrash legend from Italy! The band signed immediately a deal with SCARLET, reissued the first album ‘Into The Macabre’ on CD and started working on new material…
A year passed since their rebirth and the Italian black/thrash legend returned with their most frightening and extreme album ever! Recorded at Underground Studios, Sweden (Carnal Forge, Ebony Tears, Lost Souls, Killing Machine…) during September 1999, ‘Mater Of All Evil’ showed an astonishing killer-production and highly talented technical performances! Bloody-fast, ultra-aggressive and supported by the evil-nightmarish vocals of the new singer Flegias, ‘Mater Of All Evil’ was the third NECRODEATH album to come out after 10 years of silence… 
 
Always leaded by the old-times composers Claudio (guitars) and Peso (drums), the band, stronger than ever, was ready to bring new fresh-blood to the extreme-metal scene… Pure, violent and malignant, ‘Mater Of All Evil’ proved to be the essence of what we loved in the past: Slayer, Possessed, Kreator, Destruction, Sodom, Bathory, Dark Angel… thrash/black metal at its best!
 
 
The response from both media and public was simply amazing! NECRODEATH set the world on fire with some “devastating” live performances, including appearances at NO MERCY FESTIVAL and GODS OF METAL! After a few months of break and heavy reharsals, the band came out with new killer songs and an astonishing enthusiasm towards their music, celebrated with the home video ‘From Hate To Scorn’ (April 2001), a sort of tribute to the fans that supported the band for all these years. The long voyage to hell never stops and NECRODEATH started planning the new album… the 4th of their career! ‘Black As Pitch’ contains the most violent attitude the Italian black-thrashers ever displayed before. The recording-session took place again at the Underground studios in Sweden with the producer Pelle Saether. Critically acclaimed as the natural evolution of ‘Mater Of All Evil’, the 4th album 'Black As Pitch' confirmed once again the leadership in the Italian scene and it turned out to be the most acclaimed Necrodeath album in America and Asia. The band took also part at the Tattoo The Planet Festival in Milan, Italy, together with Slayer, Soulfly, Children Of Bodom and Moonspell among others. A videoclip for the song 'Process Of Violation' was also filmed and a new album started to be conceived…
‘Ton(e)s Of Hate’ arrived in September 2003. This time the band decided to spend more time in the studio and they choose one of the best in Italy, Outer Sound (Novembre, Stormlord, Rosae Crucis, DGM), with producer Giuseppe Orlando (also drummer in Novembre). Mastering took place at Mastering Room in Sweden with Goran Finnberg (Soilwork, In Flames). The result was a complex and experimental album, still keeping fully bleeding the extreme razorblade approach of the last two albums 'Mater Of All Evil' and 'Black As Pitch'. The album also featured 'The Flag', a new version of the song originally included in the debut masterpiece 'Into The Macabre' and titled 'The Flag Of The Inverted Cross'.
2006 will see Necrodeath releasing the 6th studio album of their now 20-years-long career, album that follows the highly acclaimed greatest-hits (‘Years Of Noise 1985-2005’) and starts a new era for the renewed band (Claudio recently left Necrodeath for personal reasons and was replaced by Labyrinth talented guitarist Pier Gonella). ‘100% Hell’, the highly-anticipated new album, will be released on the 17th April and is already described as the most diverse Necrodeath album to date, containing 10 furious tracks spanning from the fast thrashing assault of the mid-eighties to the groove-oriented sonic holocaust displayed with the latest efforts. The band is also proud to announce a very special guest-appearance coming from mighty Cronos (Venom), universally described as the Godfather of black metal. Necrodeath are back. Prepare yourself for the ultimate metal massacre!
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrodeath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.