Necroart was born in late summer 1999 from the ashes of black/thrash metal band Castle Kadath, by the will of Max (vocals), Davide (drums), Pier (guitar), Mattia (guitar) and Gabriele (bass) to create something in the vein of swedish death influenced by old school black metal.

After a couple of gigs, Davide Zampa took the place of Pier at guitar, and in spring 2000 Necroart recorded its first demo tape "Let the carnage begin", now absolutely sold out;
the 4 trx was acclaimed by people and press ("top demo" - Grind Zone) and the band collected a good series of concerts during all the year.

In summer 2001 Filippo Galbusera (guitar) and Davide Quaroni (keyboards) entered the band to replace Mattia; Necroart started writing new material, later included in the first, self-produced mini-cd entitled " Dead roses parade". The new song-writing tried to keep the typical aggressive approach of the band, adding the atmosphere of keyboards.
By the good response received from this release, Necroart had chance to play in great gigs for all 2001/02.

In 2003, after the drummer Davide left the band, Necroart found a great young drummer in Marco Binda, already active in various local bands, and started playing in new concerts all over Italy, as headliners and as support of great italian and european bands (gigs to remember as support to Entombed, Dark Funeral, Rotting Christ, Novembre, Handful of hate...).

In 2004, another line up change: at bass guitar entered Francesco "Fox" Volpini and with this line-up the band recorded a 4 trx promo-cd ("L'inverno dell'anima") and played as support to Arcturus.
The promo-cd was sent to many labels, and so Necroart started working with Officina Rock, a newborn label in Parma that enjoyed the sound of the band and decided to produce a full-length album, including the 4 promo-cd tracks and also 4 new compositions.
In summer 2005 the band re-entered the studio and in september the first full-length album "The opium visions" was officialy released.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necroart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.