NecropsY RooM is a Death-Thrash Metal band from Goiania - Goias - Brazil.

Initially named Necropsy, in August 1998, the band Necropsy Room was born. When the band moved from Quirinópolis, hometown, to the capital Goiânia, in 2000, its recognition began. 

After such recognition, the training set itself, with Wesley Amorim on the Vocal , Jander Rodrigues and Moisés Henquique on the electric guitars, Marcelo Garcia on the drums and Murilo Ramos on the Bass Guitar. This lineup remains for 10 years. Recognized by the talent and excellent integration between its components, the band Necropsy Room performs a Death Thrash Metal with a unique personality. Currently the band has a new drummer, Pedro Henrique.

With a philosophy totally focused on professional development, ethics and respect for each other, the band tries to innovate, leading to the stage a great deal of energy, coupled with an undeniable responsibility. 

The requirement with the work itself and the conditions to realize it made the band, without pretensions, a "mirror band" for many others who work in the same style, considered by many as a reference; all that things are immensely gratifying for the components. 

Currently, in its curriculum, the band have a demo-tape, titled 'Is That Just', recorded by the first members, two Demos recorded bay the current lineup, the first called "Vultures of Strength" (2002), and "Bloody Room" in 2004, and recently, in 2009, recorded the Official CD, self-titled, "Necropsy Room". 

Necropsy Room had in its history, the honor to play with big names in the worlds music and also the opportunity to meet other big names such as: Krisiun, Iron Maiden, Deicide, Dr. Sin, Cannibal Corpse, Sepultura, Sodom, Nuclear Assault, Destruction, Deep Purple, Michael Angelo (Nitro), Paul Di'Anno, Torture Squad, Korzus, Overdose, Hangar, Angra, Chakal, Ratos de Porão, Timmo Tolkki (Stratovarius, Revolution Renaissance), etc. 

With the support of the Label "Iscool Records", Necropsy Room evolves and seeks to gain more space in the brazilian scene and also in the word stage. In 2010 it began to organize the recording of a DVD, now with a new video clip and want to join a national tour, with a bridge to an international tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/NecropsY+RooM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.