Necrophilisma as old school Death Metal band was established in 2000. We had idea to fill up metal scene in Tuzla that, as it's well known, makes roots of „underground“ in this area. Band was established by Mirza Selamovic (Groba) - Vocal, who was supported by Mirza Osmanovic (Brko) - Drums and Drazen Mulaosmanovic (Drazo) - Guitars. The first Line up in 2000-2001 was: Mirza Selamovic (Groba) - Vocal Mirza Osmanovic (Brko) - Drums Drazen Mulaosmanovic (Drazo) - Guitars Amar Tahirovic - Bass Band was working very hard and recorded next albums: 2001.-„Hell's Recline“ 2002.-„Live In To Disgrace“ 2002.-„Unmask Death“ All material was recorded in „Necro Studio“ Tuzla. In 2002. because of some personal reasons, Amar Tahirovic left Necrophilisma and Harsen Kocan replaced him on Bass in the band. Necrophilisma had many concerts and participated on many festivals and other similiar events. Drazen Mulaosmanovic - Guitar and Harsen Kocan - Bass left Necrophilisma in 2003, when Nedzad Bibic (Nele) as well-known Guitar master of Toxicdeath on Lead Guitar and Pandur Vahid(Vahe) on Bass Guitar joined band. As results of this, there was a new Live album „METAL FORCE ATTACK“ 2004. recorded in Club „Palma“ Tuzla. Band was working very hard on new album „MADNESS SHALL RISE“ which, beacuse of technical problems hasn't been finished yet... Because of personal reasons, Mirza Osmanovic (Brko) left band in 2005, and the best warrior who could change him was Sead Hadzic (Sejo) tormentor from Toxicdeath. Nedzad Bibic (Nele) decided to left Necropilisma in 2006, because he had a lot of obligations in personal life and he couldn't go on with Necrophilisma. After Nele's leaving in 2006, band made great changes and all with the purpose to create a strong and unbreakable organization in the band. As a result of those changes there is a new-old line up with changed rules of it's members. Now Necrophilisma has three members, as following: Mirza Selamovic (Groba) - Vocal/Bass Pandur Vahid (Vahe) - Lead Guitars Sead Hadzic (Sejo) - Drums. In 2007 member of Necrophilisma was Senad Nurkanovic on Rhythm Guitar, after a few months in the band he decided to leave Necrophilisma. And now 2008, Necropilisma works very hard on new material and Live shows stronger than ever... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrophilisma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.