NECROPHAGOUS was formed in May of 1993 in Muncie, Indiana. The band originally started as a four-piece, with Jeremy Starkey on guitar/vocals, Mike Johns on bass/vocals, Scott Lindell on guitar and Scott Ruble on drums/vocals. In october of 93, NECROPHAGOUS went into Big Daddy's Studio in Indianapolis, IN to record their first demo, self-titled. In Dec. of 93, NECROPHAGOUS acquired Jason Bulmer to take over vocal duties, due to more complex writing and riffing. March of 94 saw the release of the self-titled demo, and Jason's first show with NECROPHAGOUS.In august of 94, after five months of writing new material with Jason in the band, NECROPHAGOUS packed up their gear and headed up to Garden City, MI to record their second release "Forever Lost" with Rob Tylak. After releasing "Forever Lost" upon the masses, it gained many good reviews and opened doors for the band. NECROPHAGOUS continued to play shows and write new material over the next couple years.In April of 97, NECROPHAGOUS decided to move to Florida and try their music in a different scene. Through a few connections, NECROPHAGOUS hooked up with Steve Mannochi to record the next release "Enslaved" in Port Orange. While in Florida, NECROPHAGOUS had established a decent following and was able to play some big shows while being there. NECROPHAGOUS was able to play with Deicide, Monstrosity, Dying Fetus, Acheron, and many others. In the last part of 98, due to monetary problems, NECROPHAGOUS decided to head back up north to Indiana.After being welcomed back by the hometown crowd, NECROPHAGOUS wrote more crushing music, leading to the recording of "Disgusted, which was released in 2002 by Skeptic Productions, based out of Indianapolis. "Disgusted" is pretty well available worldwide, and can be seen on www.google.com. In late 2002, Scott Ruble assumed main vocal duties along with drumming and played a few shows as a four-piece. This was the most stressful time among the NECROPHAGOUS members and decided to go into hiatus. NECROPHAGOUS took a total of 15 months off to gather their sanity and to take an extended, long-overdue break.In late 2004, NECROPHAGOUS decided to get back going again, and worked out their problems with Jason and NECROPHAGOUS is back to a five-piece grinding machine. In November of 2007, Mike Blair joined the band as the new bass player.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrophagous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.