With its 2015 debut demo, “Spirit of the Entrance unto Death,” Necromantic Worship firmly established itself as a worthy successor to the ancient Greek gods of black metal. Having first re-conjured the evil spirit of the great Necromantia and their brethren with this three-song offering, Necromantic Worship now returns a mere several months later with its second demo, “The Calling…,” which continues in the same arcane spirit as the first, while adding new elements which serve to yield an even greater result. Still enshrouded in the same occult atmosphere as the previous recording, Necromantic Worship’s newest hymns persist in being primarily driven by the locomotive effect of Ghûllzaraën’s pulsing bass lines. Unlike the debut recording, however, the bass guitar on the “The Calling…” is more perfectly bound and enhanced by the irreplaceable sound of live, organic percussion, as performed by Daemonomancer from the Canadian band, Goathammer. Additionally, the band saw fit to recruit the services of Zagan, best known as the guitarist of the legendary Countess, to further augment their archaic sound with a series of inspired, climactic guitar leads. Also unlike the first demo is the fact that the new material was written in a premeditated fashion, as opposed to being the spawn of impromptu rehearsal sessions. While the previous approach was effective in its own right, the greater amount of consideration that went into the songwriting on this release is evident in the structural complexities therein. These novelties aside, “The Calling…” is sure to be seen by admirers of the debut demo as a familiar entity, and one whose unsettling effect is in large part due to the forlorn vocals, which are performed as if they are being whispered into the listener’s ear by an otherworldly being, thus leading him to question whether the thoughts he is having are indeed his own. The possessed nature of the recording as a whole reaches its zenith at the fourth track, simply but ominously entitled “The Calling…,” which is perhaps best described as a ritual soundscape completely devoid of traditional musical elements in favor of hauntingly psychedelic atmospherics and the cackling vocal beckoning from a not-so-distant, soul-thirsty creature. Finally, and in addition to four compositions of original material, the band chose to pay homage to one of their primary muses in recording their own rendition of Necromantia’s “Faceless Gods,” a song which they have rehearsed since the band’s inception and one that perfectly suits their own creations. As with the first demo, Nuclear War Now! and New Era Productions conspire to bring “The Calling…” into the dark of night, where it is to be most appropriately worshipped by those who are willingly or involuntarily summoned. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necromantic+Worship">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.