Necrotic Disgorgement is  a brutal death metal band from USA.

They formed in 2003 by guitarists Ben Deskins and Tony Tipton. Both were previously founding members of OH’s REGURGITATION, who formed in 1995 & released a demo and critically acclaimed full length "tales of necrophilia" on Ablated Records in 1999.

Although material was already written intended for the 2nd Regurgitation full length... due to the numerous lineup changes associated with that band they decided to start fresh with a new band + name. The intention was to build on the established Regurgitation sound, and further solidify themselves as one of the sickest bands out of the OH scene. To fill the drummer void, they recruited the insane skills of Jason Trecazzi who, with his blazing speed + blasting ability would enable the band to push their technicality and musicianship to an even higher level. So with this lineup the band got to work both learning/revamping the songs intended for the regurgitation follow up (Clitoral ..omy, Razorblade Catheter, etc.) as well as writing some fresh new material. Not long after, longtime friend and ex- Clean Flesh/Erotic Incisions vocalist Joe Wolfe and ex-Dislimb/Nunslaughter bassist Rob Lesniak were added to the ranks. Sadly, after some time, and before the album was recorded, Joe + the band parted ways (amicably w/ no hard feelings) leaving the vocal spot vacant once again. Pressed for time to release the album, Ben decided to step up to the plate + laid down the vocals once again, as he had with Regurgitation previously....

So with this lineup of Tony, Ben, and Jason the guys pressed on, working to finish their debut full length "suffocated in shrinkwrap" for Comatose Records - who had taken notice of the band and offered them a deal at this point. Before the band headed to the studio however, Rob would not be able to be present at the recording session and Tony filled in on session bass. The album saw the light of day in early 2004 complete with sick cover art by none other than Jon-Zig. Shortly after the release of the album though, drummer Jason Trecazzi joined the Marines and was called up to serve in Iraq...

Unfortunately this meant that no live shows could be played, and therefore the band + album didnt get the level of promotion that it could have... So while the album got great recognition from those who heard it and in ’zines all over, the lack of live performances limited the band’s reach + appeal in the underground... The production + recording on "suffocated in shrinkwrap..." also was rushed, which definitely took away from the release as well. For that reason, after the first pressing sold out, the band re-mixed + re-mastered the original recording, and made this version available on later/current pressings... The sound is much better, but still limited by the poor quality of the original...

Jason will finally be returning from the military late JUNE/early JULY, and Necrotic will be returning to the scene with a vengeance! We have added Brian Baxter back to the lineup on Bass/Vokills, and will add a full-time brutal vocalist soon! We welcome Brian back to the band, after jamming together in REGURGITATION of course, before Necrotic! We are definitely anxious to get new material ready to release upon the masses sometime in early ’09 hopefully!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrotic+Disgorgement">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.