Necrophagist was founded in early 1992 in Karlsruhe, Germany to integrate the fury of grinding, fast death metal with technical music. In April 2008, Necrophagist announced that Romain Goulon would be joining the band as their new drummer, replacing Minnemann, who would still be working with Muhammed Suiçmez on a side project. The band is writing a new, yet untitled album. Muhammed Suiçmez stated that the band would be using seven-string guitars on the album. Muhammed Suiçmez himself will be recording with a new custom shop Ibanez Xiphos guitar consisting of 7 strings, as well as 27 frets.

Shortly after the band formed they entered the studio and recorded their first demo tape entitled 'Requiems of Festered Gore.' 'Requiems of Festered Gore' was never released to the masses as it was sent out solely for promotional reasons in an attempt to help the band secure gigs.

In 1995, Necrophagist re-entered the studio and recorded a self-titled, follow-up demo. The demo’s impact sent shock waves through the European underground death metal scene, which helped Necrophagist not only establish their gruesome name, but allowed the band to play numerous shows all over Europe. Soon Necrophagist was recognized as one of the leading bands in the growing underground progressive/technical death metal scene.

In 1999, NECROPHAGIST recorded their self-released, full-length debut 'Onset of Putrefaction.' Despite the limited number of copies that were made, 'Onset of Putrefaction' only solidified the growing reputation that NECROPHAGIST had started with their self-titled demo. Uniting influences from different styles, including classical music, 'Onset of Putrefaction' showcased NECROPHAGIST’s demanding dexterity, inhuman brutality and fury.

With 'Onset of Putrefaction' NECROPHAGIST reanimated the brutal death metal genre that many had left for dead. The overwhelming response to 'Onset of Putrefaction' helped NECROPHAGIST secure highly sought after support slots with such extreme music luminaries as CANNIBAL CORPSE, NAPALM DEATH and SINISTER. This attention further blossomed into NECROPHAGIST’s appearance at numerous festivals, including the Fuck The Commerce in Germany, the legendary Brutal Assault in the Czech Republic and the Maryland Deathfest in the United States.

In mid 2004, NECROPHAGIST had signed to Relapse Records and unleashed the album 'Epitaph'.

As of present day, NECROPHAGIST have talked about getting away from Relapse Records because of touring issues in the Unites States. A quote from frontman Muhammed Suicmez, "(They) told us not to tour the U.S. because they would not like us,".

In April of 2008 it was announced that Romain Goulon would join the band thus taking on the duties of drumming for the upcoming album. It was also announced that former live drummer Marco Minnemann and Muhammed Suicmez would be forming their own separate band. The name of this band, as well as its musical style remains to be seen.
Line-Up:

Muhammed Suiçmez - Vocals, Guitar
Sami Raatikainen - Guitar
Stephan Fimmers - Bass
Romain Goulon - Drums

Past members:
Guitar:
Jan-Paul Herm
Mario Petrovic
Björn Vollmer
Christian Münzner
Matthias Holzapfel

Bass:
Jochen Bittmann
Julien Laroche
Heiko Linzert

Drums:
Raphael Kempermann
Daniel Silva
Slavek Foltyn
Daniel Silva
Hannes Grossmann
Marco Minnemann <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrophagist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.