The band was created in May 2000 by singer Alex Necrotorture under the name of Suspiria. In January 2001, after various line-up modifications, the band recorded its first promo CD "Psychotic Necrophilus".

In autumn 2001, about eight months after the release of the first promo CD, the band decided to replace the drummer due to his lack of experience. They auditioned some drummers and, thanks to the contacts of the singer Alex Necrotorture, the band arrived at the rehearsal room with the ex-drummer of Terremoto. Leaving behind the first promo CD the band changed its name for a new project with the name of Necrotorture (from the nickname of the singer) that recorded(in about three months), a new demo CD with four songs. Among these, two songs from the old works were re-arranged in a different way and became more potent for the better ability of the new drummer. The band offers, in its works, brutal gore with splatter inspiration and presents texts full of themes about serial killers, science-fiction aliens, pornography based on sexual obsessions of maniacs, killers and killing-art men. After this CD demo called "Exploring Ways of Flesh", the band played with bands like Horrid, Bastard Saints, Necrophilism, Cadaveric Crematorium, Virulent Re-Shapes, with great success and receiving congratulations by those present. During the show, the band arranged horror sequences.

In September 2002 Necrotorture band have changed again the drummer with new entry Vito. After not even five months from his arrival, the drummer decided he was not right for this kind of music, and the bass player lost interest in the band because they weren't motivated anymore. The two remaining members (Alex "Necrotorture" vocals and Gianluca Buonsante guitar) soon reformed the group thanks to a fast search that has put at the drum the ex-drummer of Mortifier (an apulian black metal band now brought up) and drum session of the black metal band Buio Omega (project Italy/Australia where the drummer Vanny "Hate" has recorded the drum sessions) and at the bass Domenico Dr. Gore (guitarist by Necrophilism band) that has been working for a long time with the singer of the band for other parallel projects.

2004. The band, failed to obtain good stability due to the drummers distance and for this reason, had many difficulties in the organization of live performances.

May 2004. Necrotorture begins their activity with drummer Antonio Donadeo (Undertakers e Traitor). During this time the band began to work on new songs including some covers. Thanks to the new drummer, the band finds stability and begins to play live again with the first concert being with deathmetallers Vader.

During 2004/2005... The band continued to play gigs with bands like Beheaded, Hour of Penance, and Prejudice. They continued to work on new songs for their future first release. During this time, AlexNecrotorture, with bass player Domenico Dr. Gore (from Necrotorture) founded a side project called Splattered Cavities, and in January 2005 Alex become the singer of the Italian band Hour of Penance and recorded their second full album.

September 2005. Necrotorture recorded, at the famous 16th Cellar Studios (in Rome) by Stefano "Saul" Morabito, their first mini CD that contains five tracks plus a cover song from Napalm Death's "Scum". In October the band started touring the entire peninsula with the Brazilian Flesh Grinder for an Italian mini tour. 

January 2006. The band signed to American Underground Extreme, a subsidiary of Brutal Bands, for the release of their first MCD called "Blood Feast". In spite of the various offers from other labels, Necrotorture chose to sign with Underground Extreme for their excellent contract that offers the same world-wide promotional and distribution methods as Brutal Bands. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrotorture">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.