There are several bands named "Necromancer".

1. Necromancer were formed in 1989 by Rossen Grudev [guitars] and Nedelcho Harizanov [bass] in the city of Bourgas [BULGARIA] 
at the Black Sea coast. The first demo, "Creation Of Darkness", was recorded [after multiple line-up changes] with the following musicians: Rossen Grudev - guitars; Nedelcho Harizanov - bass; Svetoslav Dimitrov - vocals; Zdravko Zlatev - drums; Lina Petrova - keyboards. The style is death metal with the typical brutal vocals, high-speed guitars and melodic keyboard parts. The demo was released [on MC only] by No Rip Off Productions in 1994 and represents Necromancer’s first steps towards "the big scene".

The second demo, "Memories", was recorded in 1995, with Zdravko being replaced by Tihomir Liutzkanov, and Lina - by Irina Bontcheva. On 12.09.1995 Svetoslav, a.k.a. The Rooster, passed away in a tragic accident, so the album was dedicated to his memory and the vocal parts were taken by Rossen Grudev. The line-up changes naturally lead to a certain change in the style and sound of the band, namely improvement of the rhythm section and development of the keyboard melodies. The leading Bulgarian company 0.4.3. released "Memories", while Necromancer were gaining increasing recognition in the local underground scene.

"Memories" was accepted extremely well outside the country as well, getting notable air-play on Italian and English radio stations and favorable reviews in a number of major metal music magazines. The track "The Lowest Heights" forced Necromancer into the top "band of the year" position on the Bulgarian national radio metal charts. Even the mega- successful band IN FLAMES congratulated Necromancer for the good work done in the booklet to one of their albums.

The natural course of things lead to a contract with the Polish label Mystic Productions and the consequent release of Necromancer’s debut CD "Seven Ways to Die" [1999]. The album was a concept one, each of the seven songs being dedicated to one of the seven deadly sins. Solos on this release, as well as on "Memories", were recorded by guest musician Atanas Nedev [a.k.a. "The Helmet"].

In September 1999 Necromancer participated in the Mystic Fest in Krakow, Poland, together with SCEPTIC, PECCATUM, LIMBONIC ART, GOD DETHRONED, AMORPHIS, EMPEROR, etc. The band has also shared the stage on other occasions with artists such as ROTTING CHRIST and DARKSEED. All these live appearances helped Necromancer in gathering more and more experience and new sound concepts.

Unfortunately, "Seven Ways to Die" was never licensed for Bulgaria, which was a great disappointment to the hordes of fans in the native country of the musicians. The way things look at the moment, the next album will also be put out abroad, which doesn’t guarantee any Bulgarian release, but there’s nothing the band themselves can do about it, as their job is to do what they do best - and namely to play. Concerts and festival appearances, however, will compensate to some extent for the letdown of die-hard Bulgarian fans.

In the beginning of the year 2000 there was one more line- up change in the band, as bass player and founding member Nedelcho Harizanov was replaced by Tzvetan Kolev.

2. Necromancer is a Progressive Metal Guitar Virtuoso from Portugal.

3. Necromancer from Rostov-on-Don, Russia formed in 1992 and was one of the first death metal bands behind the Iron Curtain.

4. Necromancer was a thrash metal band from Hyvinkää, Finland.

5. Necromancer is a Black/Thrash Metal Band from Rostock, Germany founded in 2016

6. Necromancer is a lesser known Darksynth/Synthwave artist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necromancer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.