Patrick Wolsink, Remmert Vosbergen, Thomas Waldman and Ivo Grootjes founded necrology in 1995. All members were just learning to play their instruments. Around that time Remmert and Ivo, Remmert’s sister Jasmijn Vosbergen and Wouter Mooij played in a workshop band. Now they had tasted the excitement they wanted to continue playing in a band. Remmert heard by accident that his drumteacher had a free spot in his rehearsal space, and that was a great opportunity for Remmert not only to practise his drumming, but also to form a band and play some tunes. 
So they put together their first drumkit, first amps and some adolescent vocal cords and they started pummeling their instruments, although they did not have a bass player yet. They thought of a few different names (among them Hardness of Hearing…), until Thomas came up with the more fetching Necrology, and although this is a somewhat stereotypical Death Metal name, they decided to keep it. 

When they finally had found the right name, Remmert decided it was time to start working on their own songs, so he picked up a guitar (not knowing how to play it, he only plays drums and piano), and wrote the brilliantly simple Evil Spirit. We have until now never got bored of this song and still play it at performances. 

After a while the musical skills had improved and they started writing more songs with inspiring titles such as Tortured, Gathering of Evil and Obliteration. To get tighter as a band they decided to take part in another workshop (the “popschool”, led by Niek Grandiek, the guitarteacher of Patrick and Michiel), and because they needed a bassplayer to play live, Jasmijn filled this spot. But shortly after that Michiel joined, just too late to play with the popschool performances. After the popschool Jasmijn continued with her own pop/ska band “Kalkar”, and Michiel became the permanent bassplayer. 

In the beginning of the next year Niek Grandiek gave them the opportunity to record their song in the “muziekschool”. This extremely brutal demo containing seven songs was never released for various reasons, one of them being the poor sound quality. Nevertheless, the bandmembers learned al lot from this recording, and they played quite some shows throughout Noord-Holland after it. After two years Ivo and the band started growing more and more apart. He just could not keep up with the rapidly improving skills of the rest of the band. That’s the reason he had to leave the band after the summer of 98. Michiel then picked up the guitar and Necrology was again searching for a bassplayer. 

Shortly after that Thomas too had to leave the band, due to various reasons, the most important being the musical differences. Thomas and Ivo now both play in the metalcore band Man’s End. No hard feelings though, Thomas often comes to the shows, helps us them and sometimes even sings a song with them. 

While Necrology was still searching for that bassplayer, they decided it was time to record a new demo CD. So they made an appointment with Harrow Productions in Losser and recorded the "Cold Skin" demo.. Meanwhile the search continued and shortly before they entered the studio Emiel joined the band, a gifted, classically trained musician who had to learn to play our whole setlist within a month or so. Unfortunately, when Necrology started writing new material, he also could not keep up with the technical standard that was required. Therefore, almost six months after he had joined, he had to leave the band. 

During all of this, the CD became quite a success in the press. It received raving reviews, and never heard one negative word about it. Nevertheless, no record deal had been found with their music. So the next effort had to be faster, more technical, more brutal and more musically challenging. In the middle of the writing process of the new planned demo "Malignancy Defined" a new bassplayer was found, almost immediately after Emiel had left. Ivo Vrouwe entered and the band feld very confident that this one would stay. He had played with Remmert and Michiel before in the legendary underground outfit Unceasing Convulsions. He contributed a lot to the writing and performed with backing vocals. 

Just before Necrology entered the studio to record the new demo, they were asked by Dwell Records to record a cover for the AC/DC tribute. The band picked the song "You shook me all night long" and made their own feel into the song. In march 2000 Necrology recorded five new songs for the demo and this cover song. When Malignancy Defined was finished, they started sending some cd-r's out to hear about the people opinions. Necrology believed that their new demo showed that the band had made lots of progression in a short ammount of time, and felt more convident of scoring a deal with this demo. GWN Records responded and offered to release the first and second demo on one cd world wide. In december 2000, "Malignancy Defined was finally released". To be continued... 

The band split up in 2002.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrology">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.