There are multiple artists named Necro;

1) Ron Raphael Braunstein (born June 7, 1976), better known by his stage-name Necro, is an American rapper from Brooklyn. He is the owner of Psycho+Logical-Records founded November 1999. He is the younger brother of rapper Ill Bill.

Necro was born in Brooklyn, New York and grew up in the Glenwood Houses, where he lived for eight years from about 6 years old to age 14, when he moved to Canarsie. Born into a Jewish family, he is the son of Israeli expatriates, with ancestry from Israel and Romania. Necro's father was a Romanian-born Israeli soldier and his mother an Orthodox baal teshuva.

He began his musical career at 11, playing in a death metal band named Injustice. He made a transition from heavy metal to hip hop. In 1988, he started rapping after being influenced by his older brother, rapper Ill Bill. Necro derived his stage-name from the Slayer song "Necrophiliac". Before that he called himself "Mad Mooney", which was a character from a Clive Barker book. He made his first demo in about 1990 and won a demo battle contest on the Stretch Armstrong and Bobbito show on WKCR-FM. In about 1993 Necro started rapping full-time and made a demo called "Do The Charles Manson". In 1995 he proceeded to rap on the Wildman Steve and DJ Riz show WBAU 90.3FM.

Necro plays a hip-hop subgenre called horrorcore. He has played rap metal and has combined rap with death metal music. Necro refers to his music as "death rap" to describe his style of ultraviolent hip hop and to distinguish himself from other genre labels created by the media. His music combines death metal beats with explicit raps about violence, death, the occult, drugs and sex.

Necro is known for releasing conceptual songs. Songs have tackled topics like the Manson murders: "Creepy Crawl"  "Cockroaches", "Scalpel", "The 12 King Pimp Commandments", "Dead Body Disposal", "The Human Traffic King", "White Slavery" "I Need Drugs", "Food For Thought", "S.T.D.", picking up women ("86 Measures of Game"), cannibalism ("Human Consumption"), suicide ("You Did It"), bondage and sex games ("EdgePlay"), watersports and micturition ("Piss"), life as a pimp ("Out the Pocket"), a revenge tale ("Some Get Back (Revenge)"), and war narratives ("First Blood").

Necro is a devoted fan of the 1983 film Scarface. Necro sampled the main character from Scarface, Tony Montana, in "Cockroaches". Necro has also rapped, "I live scarface scenes" in "Gory Days", and rapped Montana's infamous quote, "you fuck with me you fucking with the best", whilst sampling the quote simultaneously in "asBESTos". Necro also took the title from "Push It to the Limit" which appeared in the film's soundtrack and used the title for his own song "Push it to the Limit". Al Pacino's work besides Scarface plays a recurrent theme throughout Necro's work. Necro's new collaboration with Kool G Rap is called The Godfathers as is the movie The Godfather that made a star of Al Pacino. In "asBESTos", Necro raps, "I'm completely rehabilitated, reinvigorated, reassimilated" which is taken directly from an Al Pacino quote in Carlito's Way.

2) Heavy Psychedelic Metal from Brazil: https://necronomicon.bandcamp.com/album/adiante <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necro">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.