There are more than one band that bares this name:

1) Necrocult from France - Black/Death Metal
2) Necrocult from Brazil - Primitive Minimalistic Black Metal
3) Necrocult  from Poland - Black Metal

1) Necrocult is a French Black/Death Metal band. 

NECROCULT is born in South of France in 1994 with Loran, David and Manu. First the band evolved in a thrash/death metal style, then quickly gave it’s first shows on the local scene. In 1997 Loran brought the second voice and black metal influences, offering dark, brutal and epic sound to the music. Ever evolving, ever playing live performances.

In 2003 first self-titled album "NECROCULT" was released by Snakebite productions, reflecting the band's spirit, such in music than in the production: without concessions. The album recieved good critics in France and worlwide.

Last decade, Necrocult plays numerous shows in France with ENSLAVED, TEMPLE OF BAAL, MERRIMACH, ASMODEE, RITUALIZATION, MALHKEBRE, SVART CROWN, MANZER, KILLERS, OTARGOS, THE SEVEN GATES...

In 2013 Necrocult entered studio to record his second opus "For Thine Is The Kingdom, And The Power, And The Glory" that will be released by the dark alliance of Satanath Records and IRA Militias. 6 tracks for more than 40 minutes an elaborate dark and brutal black death metal, witness of incessant confrontation between two voices. Necrocult also offers a reflection on the journey, the mistakes, of the soul and his accession, deserved or not to the Final Thruth.


2) Necrocult is a Black Metal/Grind/Noise band from Brazil. The band was founded in 1997. Influences: Beherit, Havohej, Darkthrone, Undinism, Assuck, Anal Cunt, Gut, Von, Xysma, Mastomah, etc. They never released CDs or LPs to keep in the deep underground. Demo(N)graphy:
Belial (Rough Mix)Demo1999  
Sadistic ArmageddonDemo1999  
Spiritual RapeDemo2000  
We are Possessed by All That is EvilDemo2000  
Black Totalitarian MetalDemo2000  
Demonikk XxxivaDemo2001  
Satanic MetalSplit-Cassette with Inner Helvete (Portugal)2001  
The Worst of...CompilationCDR/Cassette 2001  
Satanas Walks on CadaversSplit with Old Skull & HellSkype 2009  
Infernal Necrocult LegionsDemo2009  

3) Necrocult is a Black Metal band from Poland. The band was founded in 2003. Releases: 1 demo + 1 Split-demo. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrocult">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.