Necrolord is a old school style Satanic Death Metal band of over 17 years formed in Hudson, N.Y. around 1992 by guitarist, vocalist - Bud Blasphemous... This upstate New York four piece featuring: Bud Blasphemous, Dave Demonic, Christbeater and Sean Satanic - have put together a sound in total tribute to the old school style of death metal, along with using every element in the book to make this a Satan-fueled release. With a very direct, dirty muffled approach, there's elements of Possessed, Slayer and Celtic Frost mixed with a bit of Obituary and Suffocation. Blistering light-speed picking with plenty of Slayer-born guitar riffs backed by fierce guttural vocals that sound as if they were recorded in a cave miles under the Earth's surface... (METAL MANIACS REVIEW 2004)... NECROLORD BIO - Sometime in 1986, Bud Blasphemous formed a unholy metal band under the name of "Dark Fate", featuring Dave Demonic on bass, Christian Slayer on drums and Bud Blasphemous on guitar & vocals, Their music was inspired by sex, death, and satan, with influences from bands such as...Venom, Slayer, Celtic Frost, Bathory, Onslaught, Piledriver, Possessed, Hallows Eve and Black Sabbath just to name a few. Dark Fate recorded 2 demos between 1986 and 1987 but stayed together until 1991 when they were getting bored with their style and changed over to more of a death metal style since they were major fans of that type of music anyway, also changing their name that year to "Necrolord". In late 1992, the mighty Christbeater joined the band making it easier to play brutal fast death metal. In early 2002 Necrolord released their most Blasphemous recording to date entitled "Burn With The Beast". In late 2002 guitarist Sean Satanic joined the band to do some small shows and still remains in the band as of now. Sean Satanic is no stranger to the band, in 1996 Sean Satanic & Bud Blasphemous were in a band called Infinifixion featuring founding members Kyle J. Kazlaw & Sean Satanic on guitars with Blasphemous on vocals. Infinifixion recorded a 7 song demo in 1996 entitled "Eternal Crucifixion. Kyle Kazlaw went on to form a new band called "Steel Vengeance". Necrolord records at Unholyland Studios owned and operated by Bud Blasphemous engineering and performing most of Necrolord's music himself in the studio. Dark Fate reunited in 1999 to record a new cd and might re-record some of the old Dark Fate material in the near future. Necrolord have recorded seven cd's between 1992 and 2003. In 2006 they recorded 5 new songs but due to bad production problems the tracks were never released. Necrolord will be entering the studio this summer to record a new album entitled...... "A Place Of Sin" 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Necrolord">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.