Straight Outta Switzerland, NEFEW, New Education From Every       
      Word, stands for authentic rap music strongly sticking to         
      the fundamentals of hip hop.                                      
                                                                        
      In 1999 they released their first vinyl-EP called Lyrical         
      Quarrel, of which they sold over a thousand copies in             
      Switzerland only. After having contributed to different         
      international projects, theyve released their second EP in        
      2003 entitled Pieces of Forsaken Times, of which they sold        
      over 4000 copies in Switzerland, Germany, France and the US.      
      Both releases had been put out independently under their own      
      temporary label Out Of Frame Records, followed by other           
      international works on mixtapes and compilations. In 2005,        
      Polemikk and PA-Double decided to take their work to another      
      level by working on their first album, which they finished        
      within 10 months, currently holding 20 tracks. Nefew is           
      often compared to artists such as Little Brother, Talib           
      Kweli, Ken Starr and Pete Rock by many of their reviewers.        
      With their dynamic solo performances on stage and alongside       
      artists such as Dead Prez, Timbo King (Wu-Tang), the Digable      
      Planets, the Pharcyde and the Expansion Team , theyre able        
      to fascinate all of their spectators. Their music ranges          
      from Neo Soul to up-to-date hip hop with soulful elements         
      and a positive lyrical content. For their first album, Nefew      
      collaborated with US artists such as Boston MC Insight,           
      radio hosts B. McLean and P. Rainyn and Jazz singer Daniela       
      Sarda. Polemikk and PA-Double both see themselves as              
      representatives of authentic rap music and a strong hip hop       
      ethic, sticking to the real fundamentals of the culture.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nefew">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.