1. Nefesh is a musical reality which takes life through the meeting of five guys from the province of Ancona, Italy.

They start to work together in 2005 and in the end of 2006, they self-produce their first album, getting access to the roster of Necroagency, a greatly efficient promotion agency, gaining excellent critics' success both on a national level (among the most, we remind the 8.5 by the magazine Rock Hard and the numerous "top demo" reached in several webzine like heavymetal.it and artistsandband.com, where they stay in front-page for months) and on an international level, granting interviews to many webzines and magazines, and being involved in many radio-broadcastings, both national and international.

In 2010 they cut their second record, in Lucca, at the Zenith Studio, in cooperation with the productor Frank Andiver (ex drummer and Labyrinth productor), and they make their mastering in Finland at the Finnvox, with Mika Jussila (Children of Bodom, Nightwish, Him, Apocalyptica...).

Also in 2010, they go back to Necroagency and win the national competition Soundcheck, going and representing the region of Marche at the MEI of Faenza. In this period, they also make several live concerts in central Italy.

At present time, their new single "Every Time" is requested and broadcast in many Italian and European radios (Portugal, Holland..) but first of all, it has been put in the compilation "Kill city vol.33" by 272 Records of Los Angeles, a compilation which has come out and been distributed in several states of US.

On the occasion of the official coming out of the whole new album "Shades And Lights" on September 9th, 2011, Nefesh perform in London, in world preview, rising the interest of some newspapers, among which Il Resto Del Carlino, which for the second time in the same year dedicates them a whole page and an exclusive interview with the guitarist Luca Lampis.

Also on the occasion of the issue of their new album in London they are followed by Sky's tv cameras, shooting their concert, making interviews with the band and producing a shot on the band came out three times in September and October on Sky, and other national channels.

In September and October, also, right after the official issue of the album, they are called by several national radios, among which MetalWave, and the national magazine Metal Maniac dedicates them a page with their interview and a wonderful review in the section "Metallo Italiano" out in October in all the Italian news-stands!!

Current members:
Paolo Tittarelli - Vocals
Luca Lampis - Guitar
Matteo Venanzi - Bass
Stefano Carloni - Keyboards
Michele Baldi - Drums

http://www.nefesh.eu/

2. Nefesh, meaning soul or spirit in Hebrew, is a klezmer band from CT, USA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nefesh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.