Negativity is a one man band located in Drusenheim, France. It was created in July 2005 by Julien Jandera.

2005 - 2009 : THE BLACK METAL ERA

In August 2005, Negativity released it's first demo Inner Suffering, 4 tracks of cold and depressive black metal recorded to express Julien's negative feelings towards life and mankind.

In October 2005, Fléau joined the band but left soon after the release of Negativity's second release Lost in Despair, a demo cd made from re-recorded tracks from the first demo and some new songs.

In March/April 2006, the first full length Dawn Of Eternal Darkness was recorded, followed in may 2006 by a short demo Prophet Of Lies that was originally intended to be part of a split album with another french band.

A few months later, Negativity released a second full length Symphony Of Sorrow, which features a cover version of Darkthrone's "Black Victory Of Death", the song "Nocturnal Apparition" from the album is also featured on the compilation Black Storm Vol.1 released in January 2007.

In January 2007, Negativity released Self-Destruction Process, a concept album about the end of the world, which is probably the darkest and most pessimistic album recorded by the band.

Soon after this album, Fléau came back in the band, we recruited a session guitarist and made a few rehearsals with this line-up, you can download one of these these rehearsals HERE (only instrumental songs, there ain't no vocals). As you can hear it, it sounded LIKE SHIT! The band split-up and Negativity became a one-man band again.

A lot of albums and demos were recorded between 2007 & 2009, and Negativity slowly turned into a Doom Metal band.

2009 - 20XX : THE DOOM METAL ERA

Negativity released it's first 100% Doom Metal album The World Is Dying in September 2009. This album was recorded in two weeks and features songs inspired by Black Sabbath, Cathedral and Celtic Frost. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Negativity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.