There is more than 1 band called Negation:

1.  A Punk/Post Punk band from New Orleans - 
http://negationisaband.tumblr.com/

2. The history of the band begins somewhere around October 2004. Janek, a young drummer decided to start a band. It was clear that he wanted to play death metal because he was a great fan of this style. After a few weeks he found a guitar player Voytazz who brought Tomek "Proca" Procner the band's rhythm guitarist to the first rehearsal to the Janek's crib, in Ustron city. These three guys were the first members of the band. They started preparing some material, and looking for a bass player. After a few months they've found Tabak, who was also a guitar player, but he had everything what was needed to become tha band's bass player - he had equipment, time and he also was a death metal maniac. The band was finally ready for real practsing, playing, and drinking of course :). In the beginning of 2005 the band had a couple songs ready to show. They played some local concerts, and on one gig they were even recorded, but eventually the recording fade to black:). In the holidays of 2005 they recorded their first demo, which was a total piece of crap ( but,nevertheless , they were really proud :D ) In 2005 they played a few more concerts, and finished that year without any bigger events. 2006 started quite well for the band. They've started to play concerts quite regular in their closest areas. They've played gigs with some more popular local bands such as Uziel, Deneb, Demiurg, Nemesis or even NeVeR. They were still making new material but unfortunately they didn't have the oportunity to record anything. They've participated in some band competitions but they didn't win anything because usually they were the heaviest band of the competitions. It should be noted that only on one occasion their music was noticed by the jury. It was at "Zubrowisko 2006" in Pszczyna where the boys were playing with bands like HugeCCM or Mortus. Before the end of the year they played a few more gigs with with bands like Beleth or Adultery. That year had a very similar ending to the last one :). In the beginning of 2007 in "No Fear" studio in Rybnik the guys recorded two of their songs: “Your End”, and “Immortality”.The whole process of recording was supervised by Krzysztof "Leon" Lenard. These two songs are just the beginning of the longer recording session which will start somewhere around July. If everything goes right you will hear the new songs soon. After the recording session Tomek, the rhythm guitar player, decided to leave the band due to lack of time. After few more weeks Voyt also decided to leave the band. Band couldn't play any gigs but they decided to go to the studio and record a new official material. "Immortality?" was ready at the end of November. After few more weeks lineup was again completed. New band members came - Kmieto, the new rhythmic guitarist and Steiner, new bass guitarist. Tabak become a new lead guitarist in the band. For this time band is working on new material for first official album. 

That was the end of 2007. Now. In 2008 Steiner said goodbye to band due to personal problems. But he was quickly replaced with Piotr "Evil" Dawid (Themgoroth, ex.Gilotyna) Band is ready now to concerts . Also they making new material for their firs official full length debut CD. If everything goes well, the new album should be ready on the end of summer of 2009. Till then band wants to play as many gigs as it's possible 

The band no longer exists. You can download it's official first LP "Exiled From Eden" from here - www.soundcloud.com/negation-poland/sets - and it's for free. Enjoy <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Negation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.