In December 2006, GABI TOMA (ex : Tectonic, Conex 83, Arand , Sistem Nervos) starts his first project with “Artillery” , a hardcore/thrash metal band, with Laurentiu Iftene (drums), Vali „Velo” Ionescu (solo guitar) and George (bass guitar). 

After approximately 6 months „Velo” is replaced with Razvan „Sfar” SFARAIALA (solo guitar) and George with Andrei CORNEA (bass guitar)..

In 2007, the band changes its name into „TARANTULA”. 

The summer of 2008 brings more changes, GABI TOMA becomes the new drummer, and Bogdan TIU starts as solo guitar. Filip BRUNET (vocals) joins the band in autumn, same year. The new sound is Thrash/Death Metal.

Starting with the second half of 2008, TARANTULA pushes on and begins a series of live performances in well-known clubs : Live Metal Club (Bucharest), Hard Rock Caffe (Bucharest), Suburbia (Bucharest), Club A (Bucharest), Fire (Bucharest), Abyss Rock Bar (Galati) etc.. 

In 2009 TARANTULA starts collaborating with Stay Metal Forever! : Sorin Ion Turcu - Business Manager & Alberta Bita, Marketing Manager. This same year brings a lot of concerts and festivals for the band : Academia de Rock, LMC Rock Maraton, Katharsis Metal ShowDown (with Methedras –Thrash/Death –Italy), Stay Metal Forever sharing the stage with Eastern Front UK, Seregon UK and De Profundis UK), Transylvanian Pizza Tour (with Action Bass Tom Band –DE), Dacorum Biker Fest Cernica, Motor Xcountry Fest and many others. . 
The 1st of November greets the band’s new name „Negative Core” and at the same time a replacement: the departure of Gabi TOMA, caused by personal issues, and a short collaboration with Bogdan „Tom” GROMAN (ex DoDiez) with whom the band had a performance in Suburbia Club next to ALTAR and a live show at a national television TVR2, at „Muzica si Muzichie” show (played in February 2010).

March 2010 brings Gabi DIMA from „Tiarra” (ex : Graven, Colt 44, Blind Spirits and featured along Abigail and ThunderStorm) behind the drums and a live performance at the new TWICE club (Bucharest) for a charity fundraiser.

In May 2010, after some musical style related misunderstandings, the band suffers a major change : Razvan, Andrei and Bogdan are replaced with Tudor „Bulan” SCANTEIE (actual member of Tiarra and Shesdead) at guitars, Augustin „Adi” COMORASU (actual member of Tiarra) at bass guitar, and Victor BADILA (actual member of Akral Necrosis) as the second guitar.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Negative+Core+Project">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.