Negro Altar (means Black Altar in latin) started as a thrash/death metal band in the beginning of the 90's, influenced by old brazilian godz of SARCOFAGO, VULCANO, Chakal, SEXTRASH, Mayhem(Bra), MEGATHRASH and Morbid Visions, which were the true inventors of black metal before the norwegian black metal boom. Other influences would be VENOM, POSSESSED, CELTIC FROST (old) and BULLDOZER. 

First line-up: 
Impalador de Falsos (vokills)
Potro Selvaggio (hammerkrieg)
Rolo Compressor (chainsaw massacre)

After some months Estrupador Noturno joined the band as guitarrist while Rolo Compressor left the guitars to play bass. 

Some rehearsals were taped and very few copies of this recordings were distributed in the underground. The number of copies which were distributed and the number of rehearsals recorded are uncertain, but the first tape registry dates from 1992 annus diabolicus. 

Soon Negro Altar got in touch with the norwegian black metal scene, mostly Mayhem, and since then they adopted the contemporary black metal look with corpse paint and medieval weapons added to the old "leather & spikes" look. Although the visual changed a bit the music didn't change, as it was already old-school while bands like Darkthrone were still playing trendy death metal. 

It was still 1994, 3 years after Dead's suicide, when Impalador de Falsos' departure from this plane happened. Depressed with all the christian, white metallers and grunges (which were all around after Nirvana's suicide) in the scene, he couldn't continue to live and hanged himself in a dark southern forest. 

Even with the death of Impalador de Falsos, former vocalist of the band, Negro Altar kept active and recorded in the beginning of 1995 their first studio material, a demo called "Cristo Massacrado" containing 2 tracks, "Massacrando o Cristão com a Serra-Elétrica" and "Destruição da Hipocrisia Cristã".
Since the band didn't have a drumkit at the time, these songs were recorded with the pre-programed drum patterns of a Casio keyboard borrowed from Potro Selvaggio's little sister. 

Some months later they were able to record some new tracks with real drums and then the "Goat Ritual" demo was recorded containing three tracks, which are "Ave Negro Altar", "Negra Celebração 666" and "Hino de Adoração ao Bode". Maniaco Estrupador made the vokills for both releases. 

Soon after the recordings a new guitarrist was recruited because they wanted to play new gigs, and that's when Krucificador Bestial joined the horde. Estrupador Noturno and Rolo Compressor were both doing the vocals live. The band recorded new studio material in 1996, a demo called "Possuídos Pelo Fodido Negro Metal" and then we had a long period of silence. 

In 1999 members of Negro Altar got gathered once more and played some gigs and it is said that they recorded new songs, although not a single copy of this material was distributed, so nobody ever heard it. The band disappeared again in the darkness in 2000 and nothing was heard from them until 2005 annus diabolicus, when the underground label convinced Negro Altar members to allow'em to release a xeroxed tape version of their demo "Goat Ritual", which is actually the original "Goat Ritual" demo from 1995 together with the demo "Cristo Massacrado". 

Negro Altar has several self-released and extremely limited rehearsal demo tapes which were out between 1992 and 1996 a.d., plus some four or five studio demo tapes which are hard to find since they were originally distributed in very small amounts of copies with handwritten xeroxed cover.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Negro+Altar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.