Neko Case (born September 8, 1970, in Alexandria, Virginia) is an American singer and songwriter, best known for her solo career and her contributions as a member of the Canadian indie rock group The New Pornographers.

Case moved around often as a child, spending the largest part of her youth in Tacoma, Washington. She left her parents at age 15 and three years later she started playing drums for several bands around the Northwest's punk rock scene. In 1994, she moved to Vancouver, BC to enter art school, and simultaneously joined the punk group Maow, who released a record on the Mint label. She also played with roots rockers the Weasles, and eventually formed her own backing band, the Boyfriends, which initially featured alumni of the Softies, Zumpano, and Shadowy Men on a Shadowy Planet. 

Case released her solo debut, The Virginian, in 1997, delving wholeheartedly into traditional country via a mix of covers and originals. She went on to perform with Carolyn Mark in the old-timey side project the Corn Sisters, and recorded with the Vancouver indie supergroup the New Pornographers, which she continues to be a member of. In 1998, Case completed her studies and, with her student visa expired, returned to Washington and began work on her second solo album. The lovely, melancholy Furnace Room Lullaby was released on Bloodshot Records in 2000 and won high praise from most critics. 

Case subsequently relocated to Chicago, home of a thriving alt-country scene, and released the home-recorded Canadian Amp EP in 2001. Its moody, late-night ambiance carried over to 2002's Blacklisted, a darker yet more eclectic affair; it garnered Case her strongest reviews up to that point, making many year-end critics' polls, and landed her a tour slot opening for Nick Cave. Blacklisted was recorded at Wavelab Studio in Tuscon AZ,  where Case had moved to in 2002.

In 2004, Case signed with Anti Records in the United States, and that year she released a live album, The Tigers Have Spoken, recorded during several dates with Canadian surf-country band the Sadies. 

Fox Confessor Brings the Flood, hailed by critics as an instant classic and Case's most realized work yet, followed in 2006.  Calexico's Joey Burns and John Convertino contributed guitar, cello, bass, and drums to the album.

On March 3, 2009, Case released Middle Cyclone.  It was her first album to reach the top ten's on the Billboard charts in the US.

Middle Cyclone was followed by "The worse things get, the harder I fight, the harder I fight, the more I love you" which came out September 4th 2013.

Case now lives on her farm in Vermont. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neko+Case">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.