NekroDrako: A nihilistic approach to the modern era, a combination of the growth of technology with the raw and gritty past of extreme metal. A brutal noise catalysing with distorted electronics to create a wall of sound. A blend of misanthropy and bitter hope.
Bahraini born founding member John Thompson has overseen the evolution of extreme metal project NekroDrako since its inception in 2004. Based in Manchester, UK, the form of NekroDrako has changed with time, but its core has remained a nasty black pit of everything we love about extreme metal. Channelling the experimental essence of bands like Anaal Nathrakh, Mayhem, Neurosis and The Berzerker; NekroDrako blast into an area that impedes on the purity of metal and creates an altogether different beast. 
Performing music passionately for a dispassionate world, NekroDrako has played with bands such as Fleshgod Apocalypse, Eastern Front, Primitive Graven Image and Bloodshot Dawn. The last few years have seen them perform several shows for Terrorizer Magazine's 'Grindhouse' showcase and recently a slot at Metal Camp Festival 2012. Busy building a new album scheduled for release in 2013, this is just the beginning for this musical abyss. 
Watch the skies.

The bandʼs debut EP for Stutter Records, “Before the Swine,” is out now on iTunes, Amazon, and direct from the bandʼs website: www.nekrodrako.com

“The cavalier attitude to genres and pigeonholing is refreshing, as a big ‘fuck you’ to all those who insist on obsessively categorizing by genre, particularly in extreme metal circles” - amodelofcontrol, Sheffield

“The extreme metal scene needs NekroDrako... one of the finest underground bands today.” - Powerplay Magazine

“...sounds like some creepy little squeaky toy... Queers.” - Global Domination

“...these Brits throw everything onto one big nuclear pile and some nice, dark, rhythmically exciting creatures come crawling out...” - blackfuel.nl

“...the future of metal in Manchester is safe as long as bands like Nekro Drako maintain their musical integrity and continue to take the scene by storm.” - planetmosh  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/NekroDrako">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.