There are several artists known as Nem.

01. Nem is a well-known producer, who makes songs in the jazz or ballad genre, therefore he often makes use of violins and pianos. He's also well known to be good in tuning Vocaloids. Other than making Vocaloid songs, he also covers songs as an utaite.

02. http://www.nemsite.com

nem, under the EMI Music Turkey label , released their debut album "Guneste Yalniz" in 2006. Several tracks from the album have been included in compilations that have been distributed in over 25 countries. The recording of the album took place in Marsandiz Studios in Istanbul, Turkey. Hakan Kursun served as the Executive Producer, and the mastering of the 12 track album took place in Los Angeles's Capitol Studios, and was performed by Evren Göknar. nem reach into the human psychology and into untapped emotions with a style and sound that distinguished music critics agree should be admired and emulated for their soul rendering sound is a first among Turkish artist.

VIDEOS
nem's premier video "Yarim Kalan Hayaller Yasindayiz'" was produced by Gürcan Keltek.  "Nukleer Kis," was produced by the well-known photographer, Ismail Necmi Aydogan. "Kirilana Dek Bukuldum" was produced by Sedef Bayburtluoglu.

SPECIAL PERFORMANCES
nem has composed music to the poetry of several distinguished poets and musicians. They delivered Federico Garcia Lorca's well known 'Mourning Bells' in a performance entitled 'Lorca Divani' at the Ataturk Culture Center(A.K.M.) under the supervision of Mahir Gunsiray.
Other artists joined nem in a special night put together by I.K.S.V. that was contributed to the much admired writer, musician, and poet Leonard Cohen, entitled 'Cohen and I," where nem had the honor to compose music to one of Cohen's poems, 'My Good Side."

COMPLIATION ALBUMS 
The Greatest Songs Ever: Turkey
Two tracks from the debut album, 'Nukleer Kis' and 'Yarim Kalan Hayaller Yasindayiz' are included in a compilation that was put together by Petrol Records entitled, 'The Greatest Songs Ever: Turkey.' The purpose of the compilation is to display the culture and music of a country through the artists that Petrol Records feel express that country best. The compilation is distributed throughout the following countries: Holland, Denmark, Saudi Arabia, Croatia, Lithuania, Sweden, Switzerland, South Africa, Hong Kong, Italy, Portugal, Spain, New Zealand, Turkey, India, Slovenia, Austria, Russia, Serbia, Greece, England, Japan, Germany, Australia, and France.

From Constantinople to Istanbul: A Journey in the Heart of Europe
EMI Music France has introduced the compilation entitled 'From Constantinople to Istanbul: A Journey in the Heart of Europe.' nem's 'Guneste Yalniz' is included in this double disc "chill out compilation electro" that's described as being a trip "back to the future," with modern sounds and a journey to space in time. This album can be found online, and is available in Canada, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Serbia, and Austria.



PS: NEM is also the name of a now disbanded brazilian group, which first record Harmonicaótica was produced by Mutantes' guitarrist Sérgio Dias. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.