http://neoandertals.bandcamp.com/

Designed to pulverize the Human species on ultra-low soundsystems.
The Ancient Neanderthals are released to spread chaos and rituals of death!

NEOANDERTALS is a bass death metal band from Estonia. The band was founded in 2003 in Arula and Otepää with Rain Pohlak as the bassist/vocalist and Roland Seer as the drummer. In 2004 Toomas Keermann joined briefly as a guitarist, but he left shortly before any studio recordings could happen. From that moment on NEOANDERTALS abandoned the high guitar frequencies and concentrated only on playing bass driven ultra brutal death metal. The low-end madness & chaos also did suit the prehistoric primitive concept better.  

The first two track demo "Neander Valley" was released in 2005 and by then the band also started to play live shows. With the founding lineup NEOANDERTALS recorded "Neanderthals Were Master Butchers" on July 3rd 2006. Sandra Vungi replaced Roland on drums in September 2006, after the first album was already recorded. The debut studio album was released on the 17th of February 2007 through Heli Records is Estonia and some time later through Forensick Music to the rest of the world.
"Neanderthals Were Master Butchers" is a concept album concentrating on the darker side of the longdead Neanderthals. Real facts mixed with fiction create stories about Neanderthal defleshing burial rites, their butchering habits, decapitation of the last Neanderthals in Neander Valley and the rise of neo-Neanderthal zombies.
The band toured Europe in the end of 2007 in support of the album.

 Rain Pohlak and Sandra Vungi started the recording of the next album in October 2010 and they were done by January 2011.
Reivo Orav stepped in briefly as a second bassist in the end of 2010 but he was released from his commitments when he failed to show up for an important documentary filming the band in May 2011.

 The second studio album entitled "Ebu Gogo Gutting the Child" was released in 2011. This album explores the dark side of the little hominid hunter Homo floresiensis, who kidnapped human children to defile and eat them. 
NEOANDERTALS has grand touring plans for the years to come! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neoandertals">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.