There are two known bands recognized under this name:

1. Neon Knights are a two piece band, both of whom are brothers and are originally from New Zealand, but now live permanently in Melbourne, Australia.  

Chris, the founder of the band, composed all of the original demos in his appartment, before taking them to the stage.  After composing the sound tracks, he combines his synthesiser and microphone to bring a unique garage electro sound to the venues of Melbourne.  During live performances, his brother, Nik drums to give it that extra bit of backing.

To date, he's supported a wide up and coming national acts, as well as some international artists from USA and Europe.

2. This band, from Tuzla (Bosnia and Herzegovina), was born in 1994 during the war in former Yugoslavia. After a couple of personnel changes the band took the name Neon Knights, taken from the first track of the Black Sabbath album Heaven and Hell. The band members at the time were: 
Emir Hot (guitars), Mario Vilusic (bass), Nenad Kerosevic (drums), Elvedin Begovic (guitars), Tarik Imamovic (keyboards) and Edvard Bisof (vocals).

They soon started to write their own material. Their first concerts were well accepted and the originality of the band was soon recognized. In 1997 Neon Knights were offered a record deal in Italy. The band accepted the idea wholeheartedly and soon they were on the road in Italy, where they played a small tour of 10 concerts in 10 different cities. In 1998, the album Deserted Land was recorded and released. Numerous concerts all over Europe followed; the band had the opportunity to meet some of the world's leading names in heavy rock music, including Iron Maiden and Dream Theater. The album received positive reviews in metal/rock magazines. However, after a couple of tours, things took a turn for the worse and Emir Hot decided to leave the band. That was the end of this talented band's short but respectable career and they split up the same year.

Emir Hot performs as solo artist now and has recently released his first solo album "Sevdah Metal". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neon+Knights">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.