Neongod is a metal band based in Kristiansand, Norway, formed in 2000 by drummer Sven Rothe and guitarist Kjell Jacobsen. The idea we had was simple; create some real heavy shit based on the music we appreciate the most, incorporating groove, aggression, hard hitting riffs, progressiveness and more groove.

Finding the right guy's for the rest of the line-up was never a walk in the park, but things started falling in place in 2001 when Tom Aksel Hansen joined us on bass and Gøran Boman (Carpathian Forest) joined us on guitar in early 2002, both of them friends of ours from the local metal scene in Kristiansand.

We played a gig at the Southern Discomfort festival in Kristiansand in 2003 with Vibeke Stene (ex-Tristania) and Kjetil Nordhus (Green Carnation, ex-Trail of Tears) guest appearing on vocals, and after the gig we were introduced to Svein Reinton by Kjetil, resulting Svein joining us on vocals shortly after.

Now with a full line-up we finally recorded our first demo at Dub Studio in June 2005 with producer Endre "did you say steak" Kirkesola.

The demo received a lot of good feedback and reviews!

Around November 2005 Gøran left Neongod to concentrate more on his own band (Chain Collector). Fortunately for us Ivan Gujic had already played with us while temporarily stepping in for Gøran when he was on tour with Carpathian Forest, so we didn’t have to look far for a replacement.

We recorded our second demo “AnarCHAOS” late March 2006 at Space Valley Studio with producer Henning “full av spenning” Ramzet, but it was remixed and mastered at Dub Studio by Endre.

Now with our new demo and lots of material ready to shred we’re looking for a record deal so that we can fianally put an album together.

Lineup:
Sven Rothe - Battery
Kjell Jacobsen - Guitar
Svein Reinton - Lungs
Ivan Gujic - Guitar
Tom Aksel Hansen - Sub <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neongod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.