In the winter of 2015 longtime friends Kevin van Geffen (ex-Breaking the Monolith) and Rens van de Ven started a new project mainly focused on Scandinavian Melodic Death metal: Nephylim.
After they’ve joined forces with drummer Martijn Paauwe (ex-Mirdyn) and vocalist Lisa van Dijk (ex-Solemnus) the first full setting of the band was set. Together they’ve composed multiple songs of which 5 have ended on the first release of the band: EP “Torn” (released on 15-12-2015). The EP has been fully recorded, mixed and mastered by themselves under the flag of Martijn’s Asymmetry Audio.
In 2018, it was time for the first full length. A new journey, with a (partially) new crew:
Kevin, Martijn and Rens had chosen to reform the band with the attendance of Ralph Lentink (Neige, ex-Deamension) on Guitar, meanwhile Rens chose to pick up the Bass, and Cézary van der Veen (Sudaria) as lead vocalist for completing this long term wish.
Over the summer and autumn of 2018, 10 individual songs have been created which formed the framework of the message Nephylim wants to spread into the world.
However, in the summer of 2019, before Nephylim could conquer the hearts of the people the band lost their talented friend and well appreciated front man Cézary due to a tragic accident.
In the autumn of the same year the position of leadsinger had been filled by Tijn Bosters (Depths of Kronos, Basterd Bound), which once more completes the Nephylim crew.
And from this day on Nephylim strives to spread their message to everyone with a heart for metal.

Saturday 18th of January 2020, the day of the release of the debut album “Severance of Serenity”. Together with collaborations as Andy Gillian (Mors Principium Est), Jon Phipps (Amorphis, Kreator and more) and Brett Caldas-Lima (Tower Studios), “Severance of Serenity” has become a debut album on which we can be nothing more than proud! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nephylim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.