Nerlich was formed in autumn 2003 by Miikka Merikallio (bass/vocals), Jarno Nurmi (guitar, ex-Slugathor, now in Desecresy) and Lari Pyykkö (drums) and released their first demo already in the beginning of 2004. After completing the demo Lari left the band and was replaced by Teemu Mutka (ex-Deepred). Around the same time Miikka switched from bass to guitar and Pekka Johansson (now in Amoral) joined the band as new bass player. The second demo "Insane Creations - Inorganic Echoes" was recorded in the end of 2004 taking things one step further with this twin guitar line-up. This demo was also featured on "Embalmed Madness"split (with Gorod and Decoherence) released by Nihilistic Holocaust with over 3500 copies spread around the world. The next recording, "Promo 2005", was done already in June and again as a three-piece - Miikka, Teemu and new guitarist Otso Kirvelä. 
Soon after this the band started working on their debut album at Cursed studio and with long-time friend Davi Moreira replacing Otso on guitar. The debut album "Defabricated Process" was released in January 2007 via Old School Metal records. However, before the debut album was out, Conqeror of Thorns Records released "Substantial Alteration..." demo anthology. The last recording, "Innards EP", was done six months after finishing the debut album - this time as a duo with Miikka and new drummer Viktor Gullichsen (now in Brymir). The EP was released in 2008 and re-released on tape by Nihilistic Holocaust in 2009, while the band was already inactive due to various reasons. 
The idea about reforming Nerlich appeared in the end of 2011. Obviously this meant composing new music, which took much longer than planned. However, this made the new material stronger and the band finally entered studio at summer 2013 as a trio with current Demigod/Torture Killer drummer. The new material has more old school approach, though not straying too far from the bands earlier releases, and it's probably the most professional and focused recording so far.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nerlich">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.