San Francisco avant-metal alchemists Nero Order fuse elephantine rhythms with expansive, tragic melodies and moody, severe vocals - effectively concocting a sound that is simultaneously abrasive and consonant, dynamic and cacophonous; academic in scope and violent in delivery.

Though formed in early 2006, Nero Order has willfully chosen to stay silent and hidden, largely avoiding public appearances while focusing on crafting their Great Work: the upcoming full-length album The Tower. Consisting of four meticulously composed movements, The Tower is an exercise in duality, both aurally and aesthetically. Sonically dense, ambitiously constructed, and intensely executed, the songs that comprise The Tower are stylistically without par in the current rock landscape - though the gravity of mid-late period Neurosis, the frenetic energy of Junkyard-era Birthday Party, the minor melodic sense of Metallica’s Master of Puppets, the staggering volume and intensity of early Swans, the grandiosity of Pink Floyd’s Meddle, and the riff-obsession of Black Sabbath are all summoned therein.

Recorded live to tape and mixed in less than one full week with no digital manipulation of the signal, The Tower is an accurate representation of the band laid bare. In an age where the large majority of recording artists partake of the spoils of modern technology, we feel the above fact(s) are noteworthy, and that the approach underpinning this work ultimately serves as a testament to the quality of the material found within.

Champions of the DIY ethos, Nero Order has opted to self-fund and self-release The Tower in an effort to maintain complete creative control over their art. Thus, The Tower is being unleashed into the online realm via iTunes Plus (highest quality downloads, no DRM), Amazon, eMusic, and other online portals while audiophile-quality FLAC files will be distributed via the band’s website on a donation model where listeners can contribute to the band based upon their ability. Hand-packaged physical products (CD, vinyl) will also be available directly from the band via www.neroorder.com.

Ave atque vale!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nero+Order">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.