There are multiple artists with this name:
1) Nerthus is Folk/Black Metal band from Austria formed in 1999 by 3 members: Alex Hiebaum (instruments), Clemens Hiebaum (keyboard) and Daniel Geiger (vocals). On their second album called "Scattered To The Four Wainds" Mirko B. came to the horde. After recording third album "Black Medieval Art" Daniel quit from the band. 
Nerthus has 4 full-length albums: 
Escape from Suction - 2000
Scattered To The Four Wainds - 2002
Black Medieval Art - 2004
The Crowned's Reunion - 2007

2) There is also Folk/Black Metal band called Nerthus from Australia formed by sole member Gryff. The band was originally intended to be a bit of Drudkh/Burzum worship with subtle folk influences but has evolved into a much folksier entity sounding like a combination of classic Norwegian Black Metal and contemporary Ukrainian Black Metal.

At the moment a second guitarist and bassist are tentatively lined up for future recording and possible live duties, with Gryff also primarily handling guitars, so a drummer, vocalist and keyboardist are still needed, If anyone aged between 18-30 and preferably lives in the northern suburbs can fill these positions then please contact Gryff either via PM or email at gnomey.g@gmail.com.

The band is currently working on a split with Shadow Magus from NSW which will hopefully be released in the near future, so stay tuned!

3) Nerthus is ambient music project
until 2001 Nerthus only generated ambient music for himself (first steps since 1997) and for two or three his friends.
but with the opportunity to play live, which michael of "laborneun" offered to him, he thought it could be possible to play his music for some more people.
nerthus is very sound oriented ... that means: it's very important for him to generate and / or modify noises that sound interesting, new, never heard before, euphonic or maybe very cacophonous.
the idea behind nerthus is, if he has to name it, just to create an artificial context the listener can put his own perceptions and thoughts in. thats why his music is not very formalistic, to let enough space for own cognitive processes.
but that doesn't mean that there is no place for concrete rhythms or melodies in his music! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nerthus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.