There's a couple of bands named Nervous System:

1.  A Punk band from Ottawa, Canada
2.  A Post Punk band from Melbourne, Australia.
3. A Doom Metal band from New Haven, Connecticut
4. A Punk/Hardcore band from Finland.

Biographies are listed below:

1. Formed in Ottawa, Canada in early 2009, Nervous System draws on the spacier parts of proto- and post-punk.

Their first release, Burning White Light (BruisedTongue.com), was conceived as a single for two tracks: Rhythms 1 and Rhythms 2.  The cassette is rounded out by improvisations that were recorded and engineered by Ian Showalter.  With the help of Showalter, the band organized these improvisations and later added vocal tracks.

The band has plans for a full-length LP to be released in late '09.  

2. Nervous System's core members - Anthony (vocals, guitar), Emmanuel (bass), and two Jameses on synth and sax, respectively - were arts students attending the same Sydney college in the late '70s. A year or so after the band's formation, drummer David completed the line-up. Throughout 1980 and 1981, Nervous System played a total of 13 shows in Sydney and Newcastle, supporting the likes of the Laughing Clowns and the Go-Betweens, as well as the usual M-Squared suspects at that label's residency at Brownies (the Paddington Green Hotel). The band recorded the three songs comprising their single at the M-Squared studio (see recent entries on the Sheiks and Seems Twice), prior to playing a final show supporting Models at the Trade Union Club. The 45 - an EMI Custom pressing - was released posthumously in December 1981. After Nervous System disbanded, various members played in Idiom Flesh, 3 Musketeers and the Loop Orchestra. A 1985 Nervous System single (Stranded / Islanders, on Art & Graft Records) is the work of an entirely different Melbourne band.

3. Nervous System is a 4 piece Connecticut based Doom Metal band forming in 2012. Starting with an almost completely different lineup and going through a few member changes, they finally have released their full EP with a refined sound. Omniscient Doubt was released in early of May of 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nervous+System">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.