NETHERBIRD sprung into existence during November 2004 in Stockholm, Sweden as Nephente (vocals), Bizmark (guitars, keyboard) and Grim (guitars) found they were sharing a vision on how to write and record metal music without the limitations of a set line up or metal. The clear intent to create music without to much concern of genres or instrumentation has resulted in the band having a rather broad range of obvious influences spanning from black metal to to doom and heavy metal. The roots and deeper influences can always be found in the Scandinavian metal legacy.

The first song ever recorded, “Boulevard Black”, was originally released as a limited promotion single to select labels and media resulted in a lot of interest of the band. The next release was the “Blood Orchid EP” which also was the last to feature Grim in the recording line up. Both “Boulevard Black” and “Blood Orchid” were released through the Internet as free downloads in early 2007 and has served to amass a big gathering of listeners on MySpace and elsewhere. 

During the writing process of “Lighthouse Eternal (Laterna Magika) EP” NETHERBIRD signed with Pulverised Records to release the first full length album given the title “The Ghost Collector”. The band pushed on the planed release of the “Lighthouse EP” through Internet and shortly after that release went on to write and record three more tracks for the full length album. 

During the recoding of all releases NETHERBIRD has involved guests and session musicians contributing to the development of both the sound of the band. Some names that appear in the NETHERBIRD line up are: Adrian Erlandsson (drums)Adrian Erlandsson (At the Gates, the Haunted, Cradle of Filth), Nord (guitars/vocals), Skinny (Deathstars), Brice LeQlerc (Nightrage, Dissection), Janne Saarenpää (the Crown, Angel Blake), Mojjo (Engel, The Project Hate, Lord Belial, Runemagick, Relevant Few) and Kitty Saric (Decadence) among others.

NETHERBIRD now has a complete line up with Tobias Gustafsson (bass/vocals) joined the dark ranks.

Releases
Boulevard Black, limited promo single, 2005
Boulevard Black, free single, 2006
Blood Orchid, free EP, 2007
Lighthouse Eternal (Laterna Magika), free EP, 2007
The Ghost Collector, CD, Pulverised Records, 2008
Covered in Darkness, EP, free EP, 2009

For further information visit www.netherbird.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Netherbird">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.