Hailing from the most prominent scene of extreme metal in Turkey, Ankara, Nettlethrone has been carving its name to the local hall of fame since their humble beginnings in 2000. The band established by guitarists and long time friends Burak Tansel and Tankut Aydınlıyım with the idea of playing the music they like without being shackled to musical trends. The duo were heavily influenced by early Stockholm and Gothenburg death metal scenes and the obvious choice for their future sound was Swedish death metal. With the addition of Nazmi Can Dogan (Vocals) to the line-up, the band recorded a one song promo  titled as Promo 2003. This promo was used for press promotions and included in compilation records. In 2004, the band enlisted Çağlar Yürüt (Suicide, Ominious Grief) as their session drummer and entered to Midas’ın Kulaklığı Studios with producers Erkan Tatoğlu (Suicide) and Cüneyt Çağlayan (Ominious Grief) to record their first demo “Blueprint”. The demo was critically acclaimed by local and international press and obtained tremendous reviews. It was also a remarkable success in terms of sales, due to high demand the band had to make two different pressings and in the end it sold more than 500 copies in Turkey and several copies were distributed in international distros. 

After the recording period, Kaya Özgen Yalçın joined the band as full time drummer and with the formation of a stable line up the band started playing gigs. Their raging, intense live performances garnered them a quite loyal following especially in their hometown Ankara. So far, the band shared the stage with acts like Vader, Machinemade God, Sick Terror, Suicide, Cenotaph, Mezarkabul, Self Torture, Dreamtone, Raven Woods and many others. After completing the songwriting process for their debut full length, the band once again entered to Midas’ın Kulaklığı Studios. The debut album “Dissonant Progression” was recorded and engineered by Erkan Tatoğlu and Çağlar Yürüt and features two guest appearances by the icons of Turkish extreme metal scene, Erkan Tatoğlu (Suicide) and Mehmet Stevenson (Self Torture). The visual propaganda of the album is designed by Justin Bartlett (Gorgoroth, SUNN0))), Aura Noir, Cadaver, Intronaut, Trap Them).

The band issued a statement on August 21, 2008, announcing they are breaking up as a result of musical differencies. Members moved on to form Burial Invocation and Mental Implant. They played their farewell gig on September 13, 2008 at their hometown Ankara, with fellow death metallers Carnophage and Decaying Purity.

Nettlethrone's last line-up:
Mustafa Yıldız - Vocals
Burak Tansel - Guitars
Tankut Aydınlıyım - Guitars
Kaya Özgen Yalçın - Drums

For more information:
www.nettlethrone.com
MySpace Page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nettlethrone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.