There are three bands called Neurotica: (1) an Alternative Metal band from Romania, (2) a Hard Rock, Metal band from the United States, and (3) an Alternative Rock, Hard Rock band from Colombia.

(1) Critically acclaimed Neurotica (from Romania) was born in 1992 as an old school trash metal band. After their first release, they changed their style to alternative thrash with etno elements.

Line-up first album ‘Neurotica’:
Mihai Breazu (vocals, bass)
Horea Crişovan (guitar) (ex: Cardinal; ac: Bio Blazzaj Locatarii)
Cristian Giorgevici (guitar)
Florin Cvaşa (drums) (ac: Bio)

Line-up - second album ‘Bio’:
Mizzone (vocals, bass, sampling)
Gabriel Cherilă (guitar) (ex: Damnat; ac: Persona)
Horea Crişovan (guitar) (ex: Cardinal; ac: Bio, Blazzaj, Locatarii)
Cvaşa (drums, vocals) (ac: Bio)

Line-up - Collaborators - ‘Bio’:
Alex Perin (funk guitar, keyboards, percussion)
Mircea Ardeleanu (dulcimer)
Alin Stoianovici (accordion)
Vivien (vocals)
Lemmy (vocals)

Discography:
1994-LP-Neurotica (Vinil-Migas Real Compact & Richard Andress)
1994-LP-Neurotica (MC-Migas Real Compact & Richard Andress)
1998-LP-Bio (MC-Zone Records)

Video:
Country Of Nobody


(2) Neurótica was formed in 1995 by Shawn Bowen and Kelly Shaefer, the latter only a couple of years removed from his prior band, the mighty prog/deathsters Atheist. They caught their first break when none other than AC/DC’s Brian Johnson caught one of their shows and was inspired to help the band out, going so far as to produce their debut album. Several years later came another break, in the form of extensive Ozzfest appearances that heightened their popularity, eventually leading to their being signed by WWE’s new Smackdown Records label for their third, and last, album. Musically, Neurotica has nothing to offer old Atheist fans, as there is no sign of death metal here. Instead, the focus is on high-energy loud hard rock, with a slight grunge influence that might remind one of a more upbeat Alice In Chains (musically, not vocally). Shaefer has a fine, gruff, forceful vocal style that suits this music perfectly. Though the album garnered some good reviews, the band decided to not to continue, and broke up somewhere around late 2002. As late as 2004 Shaefer indicated an interest to revive the band, but as of this writing he is focused on the reunited Atheist.

Kelly Shaefer - vocals
Shawn Bowen - guitars
Chris Rollo - guitars
Migwell Przybyl - bass
Jason West - drums

Former Members
Louis Polito - guitars
G.J. Bosman - drums


(3) Neurotica starts in September, 2002 in Medellin, Colombia, with Mauricio Osorio (guitars, vocals) and Camilo Buitrago (guitars), with the aim to play in a public event taking place in March of the next year.

Bass player Sebastian Restrepo and Drumer Sebastian Lotero joined the band, and grunge and alternatvie movements from the prior decade are taken in account as reference and incluences. 
The live session, and self produced “Lithio” is recorded that same year, (lithio was the band’s name at the time) to be relased as a demo tape. 

In 2003 the bands records “Que te trague la tierra”, an album consisting of nine songs with a heavy punk-grunge influence. The songs “Te Odio” and “Sed de poder” belong to this relase. 

Early in the year 2004, the drumer retires, and the band enters a brief hiatus in wich the remaining memebers dedicate themselves to another musical projects and enrich their musical skills.

Now in 2005, having noticed a step forward after the break, and considering their new found skills and tastes, they decide to turn the direccion of the band, allowing themselves more freedom and experimenting in the creation process.

Jorge Paniagua joins the band on drums, and gives the band certain havyness the band lacked of. Now as reference and influence, they decide to take Hard Rock and Alternative Rock. This lineup of the band remains to the date.

In 2006, after a well taken period of arrangment and writting, they record the “Under The Sun” EP, this being the album that most compiles the sound and soul faithfull to that of the band.
IN september of the same year, Neurótica participates in an event called “altavoz” as the only alternative rock band.

March 2007, three years after its formation, sees the band re-mastering “Que te trague la tierra”, trying to preserve the original sound.
the band also starts its own studio “Site Carter Studio” to record its own productions, and that of peers and folks.

Members:
Mauricio Osorio (vocals, guitars.)
Juan Camilo Buitrago (guitars, vocals)
Sebastián Restrepo (bass)
Jorge Paniagua (drums)

Former Member:
Sebastián Lotero (drums)
Juan Carlos Villegas (bass) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neurotica">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.