There are 2 bands that use this name.  The following is the biography for Neurotoxin of Chicago, IL...

Formed largely by guitarist Bryan Lanting sometime in late 1989-90, "Neuro Toxin" recorded their first demo "World Wide Hatred" with the lineup of Lanting, Ambrosini, Edwards, Mudrich and Domelle. Soon afterwards, Lanting was joined by Perzo ( replacing Mudrich ) and Gee, with Ambrosini moving to bass guitar. A demo entitled "End Of Design" followed and showed the band moving into a direction that showed less of the punk/hardcore influence of the last lineup's sound and into a more guitar-oriented, "dual lead" direction. Exit Perzo ( currently of Chicago's Salt Of The Earth ), enter Roberts ( currently with Novembers Doom )......also around this time, drummer Edwards was replaced with Nunez ( also currently of Novembers Doom ), and soon after THAT "Neuro Toxin" became "Neurotoxin", and a 4-piece band, with Roberts not only handling lead vocals but taking over the guitar slot of the exiting Lanting. The "Nothing In Focus" demo is prepared.... and the band becomes a 5 piece once again, adding a THIRD guitar in the form of Dominiak ( now of Chicago's 40 Piece Choir and Cal City Skies ). Another lineup change, and longtime member Ambrosini exits for other musical avenues ( Snap Judgment, Hot Stove Jimmy, Cougars ) and is replaed by Vasquez ( currently of Chicago's Ideamen and soulvasq ). This lineup continues to perform and record until Gee's departure in early 1996, replaced by Garcia's keyboards. Neurotoxin continued to compose and perform into the summer of 1996 before going on extended hiatus. There are a handful of tunes that still have not seen any recorded medium at this time, but that may possibly change - as well as the name of the project. There are distant rumblings, Ancient Ones awakening, and lightning may strike the same place twice.... keep your eyes peeled, your ears open, and prepare to duck and cover. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neurotoxin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.