New Album "Decimator" Out Now!!!!

Neverborn is a band hard to define, even harder to categorise. Some make comparisons to Fear Factory due to the kick-driven rhythms and Meshuggah due to the unusual timing structures. Others suggest influences such as Dimmu Borgir, Carcass, Soilwork, Slayer, Alice in Chains, Pantera, Symphony X, …. too many to list. Actually, they are all correct. Neverborn defies any category because it draws inspiration from hundreds of bands and resembles none. In January 2006 Neverborn launched their first CD, the 11 track album "Madness, my Friend." It was a low budget affair and intended for local release only, but found it's way all over the country, including being given a prime place on several local and international compilations. 

Determined to take their music and production to the next level, Neverborn embarked on their next musical odyssey. Recorded at Depth Studios with the notorious Geoff, the new CD is as mould-breaking and fresh as the last CD, but with more aggressive songwriting, a different feel and a sharp modern sound mix. Titled "1000 Miles of Hell", it is a fiery spiteful album full of hate and malice, brutal and beautiful all at once, melodic and aggressive in equal parts and a huge step forward for Neverborn. There is no filler material in this CD, each song is meticulously crafted and recrafted until it glows with arrogance and spits its hate unrelenting . From the explosive machine gun riffs of "Black veiled" to the frantic pace of "wonder if I'm dead", from the dark melodies of "Final Breath" to the violent grooves of "Divide and Conquer", this is an 11 track album that demands your full attention.. On July 6th, 2007 Neverborn launched "1000 Miles of Hell" at Heat Nightclub with friends The Alchemont, Dyscord, Angelsai and Left Ablaze. It was a massive affair in which Neverborn unleashed "1000 Miles of Hell" with their trademark balls to the wall piss drinking fucking metal show, with as much Beer, Girls and Metal as you can handle. 

Now, the year is 2010 and Neverborn have been hard at work in the studio once again crafting a new masterpiece, "Decimator". With increased variety, musicianship, production and emotion Neverborn has created a fresh new look on what we call metal, impossible to define yet strangely familiar. Neverborn is: Big Mac- Vocals Jez- Keys, Vocals Matty BJ- Guitars, Vocals Juicebag- Bass Mike Vulin- Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neverborn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.