NeverDead was founded by Charlie along with Dennis, Jessi, Tommy, Kaktus and Lisa back in July of 2000. The group began to play some shows and recorded ten songs that they had intended on releasing. However the group was displeased with the recording and ended up using the recordings for demo only. The title track, "Firstborne of the Dead", accomplished airplay on two stations in the DFW area and landed the band several shows with signed acts and a growing fan base.

A couple of years later Dennis was forced to leave the band to handle some personal issues as well as the keyboardist, Lisa. Lisa was replaced with NeverDead's best known keyboardist, Vasa. Later a guitarist by the name of Chris joined. The group continued to play radio sponsored shows and shows with signed acts. They also began to branch out of the Dallas/Fort Worth area and play regionally. At that time the group decided to record another demo, this time at a different studio. Two of the three songs on the demo were successful in landing more airplay for NeverDead; "The Maiden in White"(appeared on the R&R mediaface playlist report) and "Frost" (written by Vasa).

In 2003 Dennis was able to rejoin NeverDead. Early 2004 the group again returned to the studio and recorded a single "Black Sheep". The song recieved minimal airplay. Shortly after the recording was made, the local clear channel rock station was dissolved. After the recording, Tommy opted to leave NeverDead. The search for a new drummer was ended when Burt, formerly of Daimonion & long time friend of the band, joined. During this time, Vasa decided to leave the band in order to persue a vocal career with another group. NeverDead once again took a short break.

In late 2004 a new vocalist, Micheal, and keyboardist, Matt, were found. The new style that Micheal and Matt brought prompted the group to once again return to the studio and record. The group recorded three songs and played just six shows before things began to change. Sygate/Kyle > all. At that time, Charlie realized that NeverDead was far from what he had originally intended. He talked with the members and dissolved the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/NeverDead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.