Combining melody and brutality, harmony and chaos, hope and despair, NEVERBORNE are rapidly bringing their own brand of adrenaline-soaked metal to the forefront of the underground scene. They effortlessly blend elements of Swedish melodeath outfits such as Nightrage and In Flames with the sounds of American giants like Unearth and Killswitch Engage, resulting in "powerful" music "that would sound at home coming straight out of Gothenburg" (Zero Tolerance magazine, July 09).

NEVERBORNE consists of Warren McManus on vocals, Stuart Manicom and Jacques Fourie on guitars, Sharne Manicom on bass and Jimmy Anderson on drums. The London-based quintet all hail from Johannesburg (SA) and formed in the winter of 2007.

They entered the studio later that year, recording the 5 track EP "In Absence of Fear" at Thin Ice Studios in Surrey with drummer Dave Andrews (ex De Profundis). The EP was engineered and mixed by Karl Groom (Dragonforce, Hammerfall) and showcased the band's natural ability to combine harmony and groove melodies with intense riffs, breakdowns and a combination of death and clean vocals.

"In Absence of Fear" was warmly received by the media, resulting in outstanding reviews from Zero Tolerance magazine (July 09 issue, 5/6 "exceptional"), UK Metal Underground (8/10 "excellent") and Ball Buster Music ("epic...a huge sound"), as well as a host of radio stations - including weekly airplay on the Barney Simon show, South Africa's longest-running and most prolific rock DJ. The band has gigged solidly on the back of its release, playing a number of packed-out headline shows at venues in and around London.

Encouraged by the buzz they've created in their native South Africa, NEVERBORNE are seeking to build upon their success in the UK. They are currently working on material for a new album, which should be ready for recording in early 2010. The record will once again be engineered and mixed by Karl Groom, whilst the mastering will be done by Goran Finnberg (Dark Tranquility, Opeth, In Flames).

Displaying qualities that will appeal to every fan of metal, NEVERBORNE are set to become a household name in the genre, consistently delivering "a whipping of slick, polished melodic death metal that will leave fans of the genre hungry for more" (Uk Metal Underground).

- Mikko (Angst) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Neverborne">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.