Biography (2007-now)

Foundation of the band, playing the first gig

The band "Next Damage" was originally founded in December of 2007. Allthough some of the original members had been jamming several times in the past, a long term based project wasn't going to happen until the founding members met under the "Next Damage" banner.

By the end of the year 2007, Anthony "Ente" Ulbrich was told about the opportunity to play a local gig in Staufenberg, Germany in mid-january of 2008. Yet without an existing band and only one month to go, at first it seemed like he had to denie the offer. Surprisingly, soon after calling some of the musicians he had jammed with in the past, the original line-up of "Next Damage" (only the drummer position underwent a switch since then) featuring Anthony Ulbrich, Sebastian Lich, Florian Schonfeld and Florian Kupfer appeared on the map and the gig was confirmed.

At first, the four agreed on a set of seven coversongs, since writing a full set of original material in a timeperiod this short didn't seem to be possible. Quite a few rehearsals later the band successfully played their first concert only one month after it's foundation on January 19th, 2008.


Unexpected change in the line-up

Shortly thereafter, there was an unexpected problem to be solved: Drummer Florian Kupfer soon was about to move to the city of Mainz, Germany to begin his studies at the city's university. Since he wouldn't be able to invest enough time into the band from then on, the remaining members needed to find replacement for the soon to be vacant spot behind the drums.

Fortunately, Nico Haida seemed to be interessted in joining the band. After some rehearsals in the weeks to follow and two concerts featuring both drummers in March and April of 2008, it was obvious "Next Damage" had found a more than worthy replacement in Nico.


Festival-touring, songwriting and first demo-recordings

In the following months, the next step for the band was to extend of their set, combined with a huge growth of their audiences during the spring and summer, especially at the "Rock in den Mai"-festival on April 30th, 2008. 

Also, the band successfully approached first ideas for original material. On August 9th, 2008 "The Other Way" was played live for the first time at the "Grimmich Folk Festival" featuring a total of five bands. The following weekend, "Time Runs Out" was presented to the audience of the first ever "Watzenborn Metal Weekend" and the band's third original song, "Hope Remains" was premiered in an early version on September 6th, 2008 at the "Raven Rock Open Air". All three songs have been part of the set since then.

In addition to that, the material was recorded to be finally able to use the internet properly and to supply some original stuff to the "Next Damage" fanbase. Sadly, the quality didn't turn out to be as good as expected, so the band is aiming for new recoring sessions featuring more songs and an improvement in sound qualitiy to satisfy their own demands.


Relocation and a look into the future

One problem was still remaining: Since the band's rehearsal place did take the band quite a while to get to, even by car, it was decided to relocate to be more flexible especially in terms of songwirting. Thanks to the new reheasal place being accessible much easier and a resulting boost in the creative process, one could expect that "Next Damage" will kick a lot of ass in 2009 by writing much more original material, recording their songs professionally and playing lots of shows in the near future. When it comes to aspring rock and metal acts, you better have "Next Damage" on your list! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Next+Damage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.