THE BLOODY REIGN OF THE N.D.S. Nicaraguan Death Squad was conceptualized in 1993 after guitarist Mickel Wojtyszyn and vocalist Brian Fisher (While both still in high school) watched a particularly violent snuff film at a friends house on hallucinogenic drugs. The two formed a basic idea of what they wanted, but nothing much happened. The years passed but the concept stayed alive. In 1999 Fisher joined Throat Culture, (Which eventually became Throcult) as a keyboardist/sampler/vocalist. In 2001 the idea was resurrected. Fisher met Tony Engel from the local Death Metal band, Autopsy Commission, and quickly asked him if he was interested in joining the twisted group on drums, he agreed and the band started practicing almost immediately. For the next year the band wrote and practiced songs while looking for a bassist. In 2002 the band played it’s first gig with guest bass player, Christbutcher from the Blackened Death Metal band, Excommunion. The gig was opening up for Impaled Northern Moon Forest, a side project featuring members of Anal Cunt. Amidst all the mayhem N.D.S. was very well received, which had the band scrambling for a permanent bassist. In 2003 and after another temporary line-up change they found Andy Pfeiffer, local music scene veteran and bassist for the Stoner Rock band, Black Lamb. It was very apparent that they had found their permanent replacement. A couple of months later talk of adding another vocalist came up. They decided upon Nick Romo, vocalist for the local Death Metal band, Crippling Hip Deformity, (In which Wojtyzyn also played for a short time).Nick and Tony also had history together in a 1992 Death Metal band known as Pugilist. Romo slipped in nicely and brought a more focused lyric writing style into the fold. In 2003, Fisher left Throcult and Pfeiffer left Black Lamb to focus on N.D.S. and Stoner Rock/Doom band Turambar, while Wojtyszyn joined Lying Bitch And The Restraining Orders. 2006 saw the band releasing a 7 Inch Split vinyl with local grind masters Aberrant. Later that year (6/6/06 to be exact) saw the release of their first full length recording from Flatline Studios, (Cephalic Carnage, Throcult, The Mandrake & Excommunion) with an adjoining Cd release show with the all mighty Deicide on the same day. In late 06’ longtime bass player Andy Pfeiffer left to persue other musical avenues. To fill the void the band enlisted Kris Piper, a transplant from Rochester, New York. With shows opening for Obituary, Cephalic Carnage,Deeds of Flesh,Decrepit Birth and other national acts 06’, wrapped up with a bang. In the summer of 07’ due to unforeseen circumstances Kris had to leave the project. To fill the new void left by Piper the band made the decision to keep it in the family. After the last couple of shows with Kris, vocalist Brian Fisher was enlisted to take up duties on Bass. October 27th 2007 marked the debut of the new line-up. Currently the band is finishing up writing and will begin recording the next full length album that should be out in 2008.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nicaraguan+Death+Squad">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.