“The main aim is to up my game at every possible turn without compromise.” – Nicky Romero
“The word wunderkind was pretty much invented for the likes of 24-year-old producer Nicky Romero.” – DJMag 
Strike up a conversation about the current state of EDM and it won’t be long before Nicky Romero gets an emphatic mention. The breakthrough star with the bulletproof work ethic is credited as a driving force behind the fantastic health the scene currently enjoys. In every aspect of his life – as DJ, producer and label head – he is a tireless advocate for his art. Couple this with his distinctive signature sound and compelling output, and it is no surprise that he exploded into the DJ Mag Top 100 chart at number 17 in 2012, the highest new entry that year, and rose up to number 7 in 2013.

Nicky Romero, real name Nick Rotteveel, was born January 6th 1989 in the small city of Amerongen, Holland. A keen interest in the drums and an early career spinning house and r&b quickly evolved into an unbridled passion for music production. Early releases, picked up by boutique outfit Once Records, caught the attention of some of the more established labels: Spinnin’, Fly Eye, Toolroom and Flamingo Recordings.

As he worked on honing his sound – a seductive blend of progressive house tinged with electro and acid – he sent a bootleg of David Guetta smash “When Love Takes Over” out into the world. The track’s online success piqued the interest of Guetta himself and in that moment Romero found his mentor and champion. They have since collaborated on multiple projects including  “Metropolis” and “Wild One Two,” and in the summer of 2012 Nicky Romero accepted a residency at David Guetta’s infamous FMIF club night at Pacha/Ushuaia Ibiza.

Today, Nicky Romero is paying it forward with his Protocol brand that is quickly establishing itself as a leading dance music platform - a go-to outlet for forward-thinking dance music. Championing up and coming artists, like Don Diablo, John Dahlback, Vicetone, Kryder, Michael Calfan and Merk & Kremont, with his record label, club night and radio show, Romero extends his influence to help develop the next generation of artists, while also supporting more established acts such as Calvin Harris, R3hab, Nervo, Krewella and Bassjackers, amongst others. With the label’s releases consistently flowing in the Beatport top 10, it is clear that its impact is being heard around the world. Furthermore, Protocol Radio, a weekly show syndicated to more than 60 radio stations on FM, receives over 40 million listeners every week and it continues to grow at a rapid rate. 

Recent studio output includes “S.O.T.U.,” a single released on Steve Angello’s label Size Records, the worldwide hit, “Legacy” with Krewella, his solo single, “Symphonica,” his UK #1 “I Could Be The One” with Avicii, and remixes for Zedd, Calvin Harris, and more. Additionally, Romero has produced Rihanna’s track, “Right Now,” together with David Guetta, as well as two tracks for Britney Spears. Whether it’s his own original song, a collaboration, or an inventive remix, he consistently receives massive support from a veritable who’s who of dance music aristocracy.

Romero is a force to be reckoned with not only as a producer but also as a DJ. Behind the decks his tenacity and ability to work a room was rewarded as he rounded out an intense international touring schedule including his Nothing Toulouse North American headline tour, his residency at The Light Las Vegas, Coachella, Sensation White, and mainstage appearances at Ultra Music Festival, Electric Daisy Carnival Las Vegas, Tomorrowland, and countless others. One of his stand-out performances of 2013 was at Tomorrowworld where he was the first DJ to play equipped with Google Glass. On top of his own gigs, he produced Protocol Recordings label nights in Miami and Amsterdam that were both a smashing success.

Building upon his accolades, such as his MTV EMA nomination for Best Dutch Act, and prosperity in 2013, Nicky Romero continues to make his indelible mark on the music industry that can be felt in the hearts of his devoted fans. Pushing relentlessly forward with the wind at his back and a new professional studio, he will begin the next era of his career with a debut album coming in 2014. With these plans and much more to come, the Nicky Romero brand is expected to grow and mature, becoming an increasingly influential and venerated force in the international music arena.

Nicky Romero online:

Nicky Romero Website: www.nickyromero.com
Nicky Romero Twitter: www.twitter.com/nickyromero
Nicky Romero Facebook: www.facebook.com/djnickyromero
Nicky Romero Soundcloud: www.soundcloud.com/nickyromero
Protocol Recordings: http://www.protocolrecordings.com
Protocol Recordings Twitter: http://twitter.com/protocolrec
Protocol Recordings Facebook: http://facebook.com/protocolrecordings

Protocol Radio Facebook: http://facebook.com/protocolradio
Protocol Radio Twitter: http://twitter.com/protocolradio
Protocol Radio Site: http://www.protocol-radio.com

Protocol Radio iTunes: http://tinyurl.com/Protocol-Radio-Itunes
Protcol Radio Mixcloud: http://www.mixcloud.com/protocolradio/
Protocol Radio Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/protocolradioplaylist
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nicky+Romero">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.