"Truly excellent stuff with a vicious guitar sound!!"***** Album of the month. Guitar Techniques.

“… Brilliant is the only word to describe it. It’s a long time since I’ve heard anything like this on any album and I guess it’ll be a long time before anything better comes along. Eddie Van who? _ The Mayfair Mall Zine.

"..Deep Purple or Cream? .. Much better than Darkness… "THE AMERICAN MAGAZINE" -MARCH 2009! Album of the month*****

‘Fundamental Darkness’ unfolds into an impressive lesson of classic rock that sparks amazingly with a heavier, more modern nod to get the blood pumping" Room13


“Nico’s Alchemy casts enchantment into this fantastic rock album. Fundamental Darkness, the perfect storm!” MotorBar

"Nico Tamburella is ready to retake the world - can you handle the rediscovery?! Battle Helm.
Battle Helm website

"It´s Enough" is played by heavy metal legend Bruce Dickinson during his Friday Rock Show on BBC Radio 6!!

“Nico’s Alchemy casts enchantment 
  over a mix of inspiration from the 
  Seventies and beyond, metamorphosed 
  into the fantastic rock album 
  Fundamental Darkness that is so 
  this century!” maggie Wood - Motorbar.com

Biography notes:

SOMETIMES SETTING OUT ON THE ROAD to establish a musical career takes time. Nico Tamburella started playing guitar at the age of ten and was actually performing live in his first band, Stardust, by the age of 14 — replicating solos and songs from the likes of Jimi Hendrix, Ritchie Blackmore and Van Halen while interspersing that with his own compositions on stage, in radio studios and on television shows in his native Italy. 

Nico then formed his own band, Nico's Fleet, which was signed in the late 90's by the Videostar/BMGAriola label and which released two albums, Born For Your Ears and Burned Down To The Wire. 

Both albums went down a storm in Continental Europe, while Guitar World USA's Mike Varney proclaimed him a Hometown Hero, enthusing: "Nico was inspired by Eddie Van Halen to delve deeply into two-handed playing… with a strong vibrato, a vocabulary of guitar pyrotechnics and song writing skills, he is someone to keep an eye on". 

2007 - 2009 -  NICO'S ALCHEMY:

Reviewed in all leading rock/metal press, both printed and electronic, Nico's Alchemy is also receiving an incredible amount of radio broadcast alongside outstanding reviews in major music publications.
Nico's Alchemy clocked over 200 live shows playing in all the major UK venues, receiving massive radio play including Bruce Dickinson's "Friday Rock Show" on BBC Radio 6, Total Rock Radio, Planet Rock and hundreds of internet radio stations all over the world.

Nico's Alchemy is without a doubt the hottest and most original Heavy Rock outfit that is coming out of the UK today.

Nico's Alchemy unmistakable guitar sound, song writing skills and mesmerizing live shows have been branded by the media as "outstanding".

Nico's album "Fundamental Darkness" has been described as "Awesome" and awarded "Best Album of the Month" by Guitar Techniques Magazine, The American Magazine, Devolution Magazine and countless Metal Web Zines around the world.

Nico's Alchemy album "Fundamental Darkness" is rated above major label artists such as: Carlos Santana, Gary Moore and Queen.

THANK YOU TO ALL OUR FANS AROUND THE WORLD FOR YOUR CONTINUED LOVE AND SUPPORT.
Nico's Alchemy

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nico%27s+Alchemy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.