Nientara was a five-piece melodic metalcore band based out of Litchfield, Connecticut, USA. The band debuted in Connecticut in 2000. The original members were Kris Foell, Brian Marquis, Brian Wilcox, Nate Adajian, and Benjamin Saperstein. That year they released their first demo and regularly started playing shows up and down the east coast.

In 2001 their EP "The Summer's End" was released by Tribunal Records, which had garnered attention for being the label to put out early Atreyu and Scarlet releases. The album did very well in Connecticut and received positive reviews online. However it was not the success Nientara had hoped for and shortly after they broke up. During this time Nate Adajian moved to North Carolina and played bass in Bloodjinn.

After their 6 month hiatus, Nate returned to Connecticut and decided to reform Nientara with other founding member Kris Foell. They recruited Josh Jablonski and Jason Leardi to handle the guitar duties. They then released a split of 1980s cover songs with fellow Connecticut metalcore band A Thousand Falling Skies which was released on Protocol Records. It should also be noted that this e.p. was recorded shortly before the addition of Mike Schupp, so George Richter handled the drumming duties.

After the split was released they recruited Mike Schupp for drum duties. Shortly after that, they were signed to Life Sentence Records. They then released their final e.p., simply dubbed "Consequence". It received more great reviews online and Nientara spent much of the following summer touring the United States.

However the success was short lived as the band dissolved in August 2003.

Nientara played its last show 2 years later at the 3rd Annual Youth and Noise Fest on Dec 24th of 2005. The final Nientara performance was preceded by the debut of The Cauled, which features Kris on guitar. Other members of Nientara, Nate, Josh, Jason, and George, who had joined Nientara right before their break-up, have banded together to start The Moor, a band that was heavily influenced by black metal, death metal and Greek mythology.

They re-formed to play a final reunion show in 2008. 

http://www.myspace.com/nientara

http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=90844 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nientara">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.