Nightbringer is the name of more than one artist.

1. An occult black metal band formed in 1999 by Nox Corvus and Alcameth in Colorado  (and joined by their third member, Ophis, a year later), 

In 2000/2001, Nightbringer partook in a Horde of Darkenwood compilation CD with two songs and then recorded another two songs in 2002, “The Void” and “Mors Philosophorum”. These later two tracks were eventually used for the Nightbringer / Temple of Not “Rex Ex Ordine Throni” Split CD released on FMP in 2005, with the addition of two new songs recorded between 2003 and 2004 entitled, “The Dark and the Silence” and Nightbringer's  “Vir Sapiens Dominabitur Astris”. Nightbringer's music on the Nightbringer / Temple of Not “Rex Ex Ordine Throni” Split CD has been described as "dark, scathing occult black metal of a higher caliber." Temple of Not is a project of Nightbringer's members and appears on the release with two lengthier tracks of amorphic black ambient. The Nightbringer / Temple of Not “Rex Ex Ordine Throni” split album was also released on gatefold double LP vinyl by Forever Plagued Records, U.S.A.

Nightbringer recorded their debut full-length "Death and the Black Work" late 2008. Nightbringer describe “Death and the Black Work” as a “major undertaking” and a “more complete vision of what we began with ‘Rex ex Ordine Throni'; descent into the corrosive waters of Lethe, falling into the two-fold death.”

The second full-length album titled "Apocalypse Sun" was released May 2010 featuring ten tracks which are comparatively shorter than on previous works.

2. Nightbringer is also a hardcore punk band from Ann Arbor, MI.
(http://www.myspace.com/keepupthefight)
Featuring ex-members of Ruination, Earthmover, and Life Set Struggle. Nightbringer seamlessly blend 70's metal bands such as Black Sabbath, Motörhead, Detroit Garage rock such as the MC5 with newer hardcore bands such as Cursed, Burning Love and The Holy Mountain. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nightbringer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.