1) -  The band is based in Kungsbacka, south of Gothenburg, Sweden. It was formerly known as Northern Shadow, but the name was changed to Nightshade in January 1996.

After some serious line-up changes (in fact, the only remaining member is vocalist Daniel Kvist), the first official demo, ‘The Benighted’, was recorded in ART Studio June 1997. A couple of bassplayers later the preparation of the second demo resulted in recruiting a keyboard player. Later on in October 1998 the ‘Devil’ demo was recorded in Studio Fredman. The following year at the ‘Bohusröjjet’ gig/contest, the winning prize of five days in Necromorbus Studio was collected, and in July the same year the third demo ‘Astoreth’ was recorded.

In the year 2000 a three album deal was signed with Scarlet Records. The full length debut ‘Wielding The Scythe’ was then recorded in Studio Underground during October/November the same year and was released in November 2001.

In March, 2002, guitarist Daniel Hjelm decided to leave the band after a good six years of service, and was replaced by Nicklas Magnusson.

The band split up, and two of members are now playing in symphonic power metal Dragonland.

2) -  Nightshade is a French/American deathcore/melodic/electronic metal band founded by guitarist Bastien Deleule. The band consisted of all French members when they started and made one album titled The Beginning of Eradication. In 2010, Bastien came across Wayne Hudspath on YouTube, where he posted many metal vocal covers, and recruited him to the band.They recorded their newest album Lost In Motion in the renown Studio Fredman in Sweden, where bands such as In Flames, Dimmu Borgir, and Bring Me the Horizon have also recorded. In 2011, they signed with Bullet Tooth records and gained three new members, with only one remaining French member, Bastien. The rest are from Lorain and Toledo, Ohio.

3) -  Nightshade is band formed by ex- Q5 members (Jonathan Scott K., Rick Pierce and Evan Sheeley)  after Floyd Rose quit. There are three album releases thus far; Dead Of Night (1991), Men of Iron (2001) and Stand and Be True (2008). Their song, Dead Of Night is also featured on the compilation album Metal Beat Messiahs also featuring Zodiac Mindwarp and the Love Reaction, Thunderhead and Hades.

4) -  Nightshade from Kansas City, Missouri, formed in 1992. Released a self-titled demo in 1996.

5) -  Nightshade from Chicago, Illinois, formed in 2007. Released an album, Autumnal Equinox in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/NightShade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.