At least four artists use this name.

1. Psychobilly Trio From Barcelona, Formed In 2005.

2. Drum & Bass group with various influences.

3. Oldschool hardcore techno artist.

4. American hip hop group.

5. Greek thrash metal band

1. Nightbreed are a Psychobilly  band from  Barcelona, Formed in August of 2005.

The line-up started as: 
Franc - Guitar & Vocals.
Frank -  Up-Right Bass & Vocals.
Willy - Drums and chorus. 

Nowadays Franc and Will play in a Rock 'n' Oi! band called Ultimo Asalto.

Frank is a Rock & Roll musician, with experience in Punk-Rock, Country & Western, Blues & Hard Rock.
On September 13th they debuted in Barcelona supporting Demented Are Go a few days after recording their demo.

In the summer of 2006, Nightbreed released their first album "Streets Pirates" through the record label True Force, based in Madrid.

Nightbreed have played with bands such as Mad Sin, The Caravans, Speedbuggy U.S.A, The Meteors, Frantic Flintstones and also in the 2006 Calella Psychobilly Meeting.

In April 2007 Frank left Nightbreed leaving the band in need of an Up-Right Bass Player.

5. Nightbreed formed in December of 2010 by George Panoudis - Drums (ex-Dead City,ex-Released Anger,ex-Skogen), Sofia Kataki - Guitars & Alexandros Gousios - Bass (ex-Skogen).In early of 2011 Dinos Zacharis - Vocals (Released Anger,ex-Skullcrusher) joined the band and at May of 2011 George Kyriazis - Guitar (ex-Chainsaw) joined the band.
So the first line up was Dinos Zacharis - Vocals, George Panoudis - Drums, Alexandros Gousios - Bass, Sofia Kataki - Guitars and George Kyriazis - Guitars.
With this line up the band gave their first live performance in Kyttaro Club at 10/2/2012.Shortly after that Sofia left the band and in her place came Stelios Makris - Guitar (Convixion, Winter Eternal, ex-Regulus ).
At the end of 2012 the band released it's first demo "From Yuggoth".

After some gigs at the summer of 2013 Dinos Zacharis left the band and his place behind the mic was covered by Nir Beer (Also in Noise Disorder,Speedrush)

With this line up the band released it's first album called "Nightbreed" by Witches Brew in March 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nightbreed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.