NightPorter are a new gothic rock band from Newcastle. "I'l Dottore, the founder of "The Laboratory Obscure” is a total enigma. Using Alchemy and Frequency Analysis combined with arcane and occult practices, he is known to have been successful with experimentation in time travel. At least one of his current associates are suspected to be displaced in time, Dr Ordinaire from a time now no more. Another associate Raven, a strange mysterious creature, has had many past encounters with I'l Dottore, they are currently hidden deep within the darkness of the laboratory, hard at work on the new "NightPorter" project. Raven, Very little proven fact is known about Raven. He is rumoured to be of quite a considerable age and is also known to posses some strange supernatural abilities. He has been known to regularly associate with I'l Dottore, the founder of "The Laboratory Obscure", together they are currently collaborating with Dr Ordinaire on The Laboratory Obscure's "NightPorter" experiments, the results of which are available here now! Dr Ordinaire, A mystery within a mystery shrouded in rumour and myth, Dr Ordinaire is a renegade scientist and master occultist. He has long shared his arcane knowledge with Il Dottore as they strove to perfect their electronic alchemy.Their experiments blend science and the supernatural, manipulating electricity, frequency and age old practices to devastating effect. A natural born sinner, he has a taste for Absinthe and the dark side for inspiration. Many say he has walked the halls of history and is from a time long gone but can see times to be."
2: Nightporter is also the moniker of Dutch singer / songwriter / guitarist  Mark Ritsema who operated as frontman of several alternative bands, like Spasmodique (in the eighties) and Cobraz (nineties). In recent years Mark Ritsema is active in Raskolnikov and as a solo artist, also under the moniker of Nightporter. (Furthermore he is trying to make a name as a writer of short stories.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/NightPorter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.