There are two bands with this name.

1) The women of NighTraiN were brought together as a concept band for an original stage play production called “Hot Grits.” In a process that was projected to take nine months, the women were to learn their assigned instruments, write songs and begin performing in the Seattle underground music scene in preparation for the play. The Band and their music were very well received. Although, very diverse in experience, age and backgrounds, the original women developed a profound friendship and connection in the music and decided to reunite after the stage play ended to form NighTraiN (NtN).

On the heels of the release of their first full length CD, DERAILED, NighTraiN has been noted as one of the hottest musical acts to come out of the Seattle underground (Three Imaginary Girls, The Stranger, The Seattle Weekly,), creating a new sound they deem Locomotive Punk. NighTraiN is comprised of Selena "No Pick" Paquiet, Nicole "Christ Child" Peoples, Taryn "Hot Legs" Dorsey and Rachael F. They have been compared to proto-punk acts such as the Dictators and early Cheap Trick, but with a riot girrrl touch. 

NtN has toured prominent clubs in major cities up and down the West Coast and the Pacific Northwest, including Seattle, WA; Boise, ID; Portland, OR; Los Angeles, CA and Las Vegas, NV to name a few. They recently opened for legendary heavyweights, Fishbone, and have shared the bill with amazing, nationally known acts such as Brent Amaker and the Rodeo, Witchburn, Head Like a Kite, Dyme Def, and Seattle bands like The Redwood Plan, The Young Evils, and Tacocat. NtN has participated in Ladyfest Bellingham 2009/2010; Noise for the Needy 2010; Northwest Folklife Festivals 2011 and 2012, and the Georgetown Music Festival 2010 and 2012. NtN produces a music festival in Seattle called “Hoodstock,” which celebrated its 5th anniversary in 2012.

For more info & music, 
https://www.facebook.com/NighTraiNSeattle?fref=pb
http://www.myspace.com/seattlesux.

2) Nightrain is an unknown band from somewhere, that may, or may not be performing & releasing music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nightrain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.