Spawned in late 2002 comes a 4-piece band from Bowie, Maryland known as Nightmare Prophecy. Offering a unique blend of sheer aggression, tasteful melody, and sporadic time signatures, Nightmare Prophecy delivers a massive wall of relentless guitars, intricate groove-fueled drum patterns, matched by pounding bass lines and vocals straight from the gut. Singer- Chris Keller, Guitarists- Mike Price and Brian Mitchell, and Drummer- Colton Boettinger, Pride themselves on delivering explosive live performances. As a result of playing many shows around the Maryland, D.C., and Virginia area, and gathering up an ever-growing base of loyal fans, it was evident that it was time to produce a quality recording.

After spending only five days at Oblivion Studios in Upper Marlboro, Maryland, the CD "Connivance" was born. Offering eight musical tracks with an opening nothing short of eerie for a well thought-out nine-track first release. Tracks 2, 3, and 4 (At the Stroke of Midnight, No Way Out, Execration) expose you to your first taste of the heavy side of this outfit, with dark melodies seemingly hidden. Track 5 (A Quiet Laughter) shows a more melodic side while still maintaining the integrity of the previous three tracks, as Mike and Brian blend harmonies between aggressive chugging riffs. Track 6 (Creepshow) is definitly the climax of this release; not only showcasing their sense of humor with the opening sample, but accurately capturing all the strong points of the album. Stepping out with experimental dueling guitar work, simplified drums and bass purely focused on groove and vocals almost on a level of spoken word at times. Tracks 7 and 8 (Moonlight Massacre, Groom Lake) Hammers out even more intricate drumming, spanning a slew of time signatures and tempos. The last track, appropriately titled End, Stands alone. It is an instrumental that introduces a clean guitar performance and hints at the multi-demensional attitude of this band.

Along with the new year...A new chapter is opened with this 4 track demo entitled the 'Godspeed Demo', Recorded in early 2006 at Oblivion Studios in Upper Marlboro, MD with engineer/producer Mike Bosier once again. Show casing new drummer Colton Boettinger and a refreshed, stronger, over all band moral this demo gives insight too what this band has only begun to produce. Set out to dominate in this once again cookie cutter metal scene. Trading the upbeat, drop tuned, harmonized melodys for haunting horror movie esk guitar lines painting a picture of pure agression.

The future looks promising for Nightmare Prophecy as they continue to expand their musical palette. Sharing an undeniable friendship and musicianship, Brian, Chris, Colton, and Mike are currently composing new material for a second release. The band consistently gives their fans the opportunity to witness what they have to offer, face-to-face.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nightmare+Prophecy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.