The ‘Nightmare Enemy’ -story began back in 2008, when two guitarists, long-time friends, and bandmates from the disbanded ‘Gallstone’– Janne Laakso (ex-Mysore) & Juho Pietinen - decided to start a band of their own. They teamed up with Janne Ikonen & Markus Finnholm (bass & drums respectively) and added the legendary Joe North on lead vocals to form the band ‘Nightmare Enemy’. 

Markus’ stint behind the drumkit was brief, and in September -09 ‘NE recorded its debut demo ‘The Destroyer’ in studio Vähäheikkilä, Turku, as a four piece. The drums on this thrashy 3-song outburst were mainly performed by vocalist North. A little later in the fall -09 the ideal percussive solution, namely drummer Kalle Tuominen (ex-Citadel), was discovered. With this “mark 1 lineup” ‘NE’ played it’s first-ever gig @ Klubi, Turku, on Oct 28th.

The year 2010 saw the band take part in the Turku Bandstand competition and pile up a total of five live performances. Perhaps the most memorable of the shows took place as a support act of the power metal greats ‘Stratovarius’ @ Osmantupa, Eura, July 24th. 

During the fall 2010 ‘NE’ spent quality time at Musamuusa Studios, Turku, recording the band’s sophomore demo. A special release gig was rocked Nov 11th @ Klubi, Turku. Stylistically the 5-song EP ‘Renata’ took ‘NE’ a few steps towards more traditional “Iron Maiden’ish” melodic Heavy Metal approach. However, soon after these promising events certain personal relations issues led to the point where the band had to part ways with the vocalist J.N. 

During the following three year span ‘NE’ tried out quite a few candidates for the lead vocal duties. The band attended the Turku Bandstand 2012 competition and played a couple of shows with Erik Kraemer (EK & Suonkulkijat) at the helm. Still, the long term solution was yet to be found.

In December 2013 Kalle invited Petteri Urmas – his former bandmate from the late power metal outfit ‘Citadel’ – for an audition behind the mic. One evening of rehearsals led to another, and soon enough Petteri had settled in as the 5th Enemy, thus completing the “mark 2” quintet. Some new melodic touch was injected into the band’s sound with the subtle addition of keyboards. During the year 2014 ‘NE’ mainly focused on writing and arranging new material. 

As the year approached its ending, the decision was made to kick off the A.D. 2015 with a blast. A studio session for the upcoming January/February was booked to record a bold new 5-song EP, details TBA. The man in charge of engineering and mixing shall be Joona Lukala. 

The moment is upon us to prove that the third time indeed is the charm!! The mission for this upcoming EP is to craft a record that truly showcases every drop of the band’s creativity and talent, and one that makes some serious noise among the metal following… 
…and yet shall be remembered as nothing but the takeoff!!

Hope for the best and fear for the Enemies! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nightmare+Enemy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.