There are multiple artists with this name.
Nightfire is a progressive/melodic/technical death metal band from Newark, Delaware, formed in August 2008.  Current lineup consists of Dan Reidinger (guitar), James Dorton (vocals), Jesse Beahler (drums), Ryan Cole (bass) and Andy Thomas (guitar).   

Nightfire was formed in Newark, Delaware, August of 2008 by Dan Reidinger, Wyeth Schiffelbein and James Dorton. By spring of 2009, Jesse Beahler and Ryan Cole joined and the band was complete.

After playing several shows with various international acts and parting ways with guitarist Wyeth Schiffelbein, the band embarked on their first tour in Europe in September of 2009, with Jungle Rot, Ion (Norway) and Dread (Italy).

In 2010, the band temporarily parted ways with Ryan Cole and brought in Dave Spencer to play bass, as well as Colin Smith to play guitar - both of which contributed greatly to the production, writing and release of the band's first full-length record "Penumbra," which was released on the Solstice, December 22nd, 2011.

Nightfire underwent further lineup changes in 2011-early 2012, as Dave was offered a new position in Texas and Colin moved to Germany. Never yielding to such challenges, Ryan Cole returned to fill the role of bass guitarist and Andy Thomas accepted the position of guitarist.

In January 2012, Nightfire premiered a music video for "Paths of the Formless" through Richolow Films, which was met with immensely positive feedback.

The band focuses on creating music from their own perspective that is technical, melodic, and brimming with ferocity, with a classical yet uniquely sophisticated framework. The lyrical content consists of everything the band is passionate about and varies from the literal to the abstract.

Nightfire is writing now, and will continue to book shows throughout the year. They will cross the Canadian border with Sapremia in 2012! Check us out at the Grind Your Mind 4 Fest in Québec!

Their full-length debut "Penumbra" was released on December 22nd, 2011 and is available for purchase on Amazon, iTunes and more! 

http://www.nightfiremetal.com

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nightfire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.