Nihlotep forever exists to oppose the self limiting and oppressive belief systems of religion and the convention of civilization, and to explore the internal and external void.

Founded in January of 2007, the band began working on their first demo in Fall of 2007 and the first public version was released in April of 2008. Soon after, beginning in June 2008, Nihlotep began performing live often to communicate their thoughts, feelings, and beliefs to audiences in various geographical areas in or near the San Francisco Bay Area. This band wishes to spread their message to many beings, thus, Nihlotep has performed with a variety of different types of metal bands some of which are listed at the bottom.

In January 2009, Nihlotep began recording their debut full length album, titled Surrogate Panoptic Quantal Regality. The album included re-recordings of all the songs on their demo, an intro and two new songs. In June 2009, despite losing a guitar player a week before their departure, they embarked on a west coast tour. Alongside the band Vesterian, Nihlotep performed a total of 14 dates that included stops in Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Sacramento, Oregon, Washington, and Humboldt County. The band members are looking forward to touring and recording more in the future. Nihlotep is currently writing new material.

In their existence Nihlotep has performed with such signed bands as Sothis, Abysmal Dawn, Killgasm, Mysticism Black, Insanity, Embryonic Devourment and Dismal Lapse.

Notable unsigned bands the band has performed with include Mefitis, Vesterian, Slaughterbox, Witchaven, Gravespawn, Sacrament ov Impurity, Irony, Nafregah, Azathoth, Ruinnes ov Abbadon, Condemned to live, Fell Voices, Nazfiratu, Cyanic, Kha'nos, Maleficus, Dimension of Gore, Vaginal Discharge, Intesttinal Tract, Nocturnal Mourning, Holocaust.

Nihlotep at MySpace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nihlotep">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.