There are six bands that go by the name Nimbus.

1) Finnish progressive rock band from the early seventies. Their only album named Obus was published in 1974 and is nowadays really rare collectors item.

2)  A band from Hamilton, New Zealand.

3) Basque Rock band with female singer. One member later formed Keike

4) A group of producers from London making deep tech/house releasing on labels such as Bitboutique, Iron Box and Nightlight Music.
---
The addiction to NIMBUS is amassing to epidemic proportions, approaching equivalency to the dangerous grips of nicotine, alcohol, and the opiate family. The total amount of NIMBUS a person can handle varies according to size and weight, though overdoses have never been reported.

This overwhelming substance, or "band" as users like to call them has come too far to be stopped. The facts suggest NIMBUS has been on the black market for a few years now. It is usually taken in rock form, although more mellow-easier-to-handle acoustic forms are sometimes available. 

ACTIVE INGREDIENTS:
 
Timothy Deschaine- The most potent of the intoxicating ingredients. Tim will pump you up, drop you down, and raise the hair protruding from your epidermis with his prominent vocals. His guitar work sets a layer of ambiance for the rest of the band to feed from.
Adam Howe- Similar to LSD and other hallucinogens, with his lead guitar harmonies and melodies Adam creates in ones ear what can only be described as a "swirling 3 dimensional sound" This is what eventually leaves people stunned or "spun out" and in need of more NIMBUS
Robert Petricca- Rob's driving solid drumming will leave you feeling invincible. Tests are still being conducted on the complexity of his rhythmic creativity-effects not fully understood.
David Howe- Closely related to the Adam Howe family, David is definitely the euphoric aspect of the band. The low rumbling oscillations, along with his subtle melodic and harmonic interpretation leave one's body throbbing in a pleasureful sensation. 
NIMBUS is no longer the premonition in some clairvoyant's misunderstood mind. NIMBUS is here, in our homes, on our streets, and in our desire. Enjoy NIMBUS with a strong will, and an open heart (and a high tolerance). 

5) Swedish progressive rock band, formed 1992. Members are Hasse Bruniusson, Håkan Almkvist, Lars Björn, Kirk Chilton and Stefan Carlsson. Small presentation page from the record company - http://www.tap-records.com/Nimbus.htm.

6) Croatian ambiental alternative pop band with female vocal. Nimbus was formed in 2002. Members are: Maja Lovrić aka Kosa - vocal, Mirko Golubić - bass, Duško Ilijević - guitar, Juraj Liška - drums, Adam Luka Turjak - keyboards - semples - http://www.myspace.com/nimbusbend  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nimbus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.