There's three acts called NIMROD:

1) from CHILE
2) from JAPAN
3) from DKNY
4) from LEBANON, a Progressive Metal band

(-> For the Hungarian band NIMRÓD (with accent on the letter "o") see:
http://www.last.fm/music/Nimr%C3%B3d)

SEE INFO FOR NIMROD FROM CHILE:

NIMROD first line up it..s from 1985 were they performed at the 1st Death Metal Holocaust together with bands like Massacre and Pentagram.

Chris Ira (Guitars),Andres"Chancho Cabrio"(vocals), Yerko Tolic (bass) and Eduardo"Picoroco"on (drums) played at that show.

In 1986 Chris recruited Marcelo Naves(later in DORSO) on drums,Rodrigo Urzua on bass,Alain Santard on vocals and Juan Fco.Cueto(later Pentagram,Criminal)on guitar which would be the classic line-up for the 80..s.
They performed in almost every major stage at that time having a large group of fans The style was some kind of Slayerish thrash metal with some very original arrangements. 

In 1988 Nimrod went to studio to record his Demo Tape "TIME OF CHANGES" which turn out to be very well evaluated in various magazines all over the world Europe, England and in Japan were the demo tape was chosen as the no. 1 demo of the year.

In 1989 NIMROD received an award by Radio Tiempo and his program "Solamente Rock" as the band revelation of the year.

In 1990 they received a record deal with the american label WILD RAGS records to do an album but due to differents reasons the band didn..t record it and after a few months Chris decided to put to sleep Nimrod for a while.

In 2004 Nimrod begin to emerge again and put together a CD with Time of Changes demo remastered plus a good number of bonusses with unreleased studio tracks plus reahersal stuff and live appearences.

For this record we brought Eric THE BEAST Morales from Puerto Rico,USA to sing, the recording and mixing was done at SADE STUDIOS in Santiago and the mastering was done by Staffan Osterling at STIGMATA STUDIOS in SWEDEN .

Now NIMROD is back and we..have our new record "RETURN TO BABYLON" Ready for SALE !!



SEE INFO FOR NIMROD FROM JAPAN:
Nimrod  was Tim Olive, Sam Lohman, Zen Asher. the album GRANDSOM OF HAM marked the transition towards noise. The duo (and Japanese friends) serves collages, featuring members of BOREDOMS and NEGATIVLAND (Mongkok), jams, free-jazz,  musique concrete, psychedelic freak-outs and brutal rudimentary noise beats. 

After the band's breakup, Tim Olive and Jeff Bell recorded Beauty Pear (Trakshun Industries).

Roughage is Zev Asher's post-Nimrod noise project. Yen For Noise (Scratch, 1995) had been completed in 1992.
Nimrod Releases

Nimrod - "Grandson of Ham" CD - Scratch number 6 NIMROD was :
Tim Olive - bass, Zev Asher - vocals and toys, Sam Lohman - drums

Music by Tim Olive

Lyrics and tapes by Zev Asher; except tapes on 4 and 10,

recorded by Sam Lohman,edited by Tetsuya Kotani

Produced by NIMROD and Tetsuya Kotani

Recording engineer - Tetsuya Kotani

Recorded at Omega Sound, Osaka, Japan on Oct.21,22and Nov.4,1990

Mixed at Tokyo CD Centre by Tetsuya Kotani and Mayo Takise

Nimrod - "The Mighty Hunter - Lab 36B" CD Scratch number 16

NIMROD was : The Mighty Hunter

Ohno Masahiko - guitar (1)

Yamamoto Kosei - Shakuhachi (3)

Jeff Bell - sampler (2,5)

Tim Olive - bass Samuel Lohman - drums Zev Asher - vocals, toys

Lab 36B

Tim Olive - bass Samuel Lohman - drums Zev Asher - vocals, toys

Nimrod - "Self Titled" CD

Scratch number 22

NIMROD was :

Zev Asher - Digital/Tape Processing, Text, Voice.

Tim Olive - Bass, Electronics.

Featuring:

Ohno Masahiko - guitar (3,7)

Uchihashi Kazuhisa - guitar (2,8,10)

Yamamoto Kosei - winds (4,6,9)

Yamamoto Seiichi - guitar (1,5,11)

M.V.P. - Text (11)

Recorded in Osaka and Vancouver, Winter 1995/96

Beauty Pear "Self Titled"

Beauty Pear CD released on Trakshun Industries

Tim Olive - Bass and Radio

Jeff Bell - Keyboards and Machines

Roughage "Yen for Noise"

All sounds created, appropriated and arranged by Zev Asher

unless otheraise noted.

Recorded on the island of Hoshu, Japan 1991-1992

Mixed by Zev Asher and Akifumi Nakajima at Studio Mecca, Kyoto, Spring 1992

Produced by Zev Asher with Akifumi Nakajima


Nimrod are on Scratch Records in Vancouver B.C. Canada.


SEE INFO FOR NIMROD FROM DKNY:

Nimrod, also known as Luis. these tracks are a collection of songs i made through the past several years. they aren't the best sounding songs but i think it's fine for what i had to work with. several songs were recorded with a laptop using adobe audition software. the beats are not produced by me, all are 'borrowed'. but as for actual content.., that's me, nimrod.

'how i like it' was a hit! inspiration can strike from anything, whether it be 'net hook-ups (believe, j.a.n.(just another night), doomed relationships (do you, platypus (i hate you), a lil ultra-violence (cholerik f.s., nobody come around), or the streets (meltdown, str8 outta dk). my blink-182 jacked instrumental track stands alone (life's so boring).

SEE INFO FOR NIMROD FROM LEBANON
Nimrod, also known as Osiris, is an Egyptian Lord of the Underworld and Judge of the Dead. Formed in 2018, a Progressive Djent Metal band From Lebanon, Beirut that is heavily inspired by old Egyptian Gods.
The sound ranges from heavy Djent riffs embraced by Oriental elements and harsh vocals, to soothing, storytelling music that takes the listener back to the age of the old ancient gods <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nimrod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.