Nina Nesbitt (born 11 July, 1994) is a Scottish singer-songwriter and guitarist from Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.

She is best known for her biggest hit single "Stay Out", which peaked at number twenty one on the UK Singles Chart in April 2013, becoming her first UK Top 40 single. She has released a number of EP's, her second EP, titled The Apple Tree, was released in April 2012 and peaked at number six on the iTunes download charts after receiving airplay on BBC Radio 1, and also peaked at the top of the iTunes singer/songwriter chart.[5] the first in 2012 which included the song "The Apple Tree". Whilst, her debut single "Boy", from the EP of the same name was released in 2012 and peaked at number one hundred and thirty nine in the UK Singles Chart. In 2013, she came to mainstream attention, with her single "Stay Out". The "Way Of The World EP" and single was released on 23 July 2013, as a follow-up to her first charting single "Stay Out", it joined BBC Radio 1's 'A' playlist. In August 2013, she recorded a version of Fleetwood Mac's "Don't Stop" for a new John Lewis advertising campaign, subsequently it charted at number 61 on 1 September in the UK Singles Chart. She featured on BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge singing a cover of British singer John Newman's single "Love Me Again". Her latest single "Selfies" was released on 9 February 2014 and will feature on her debut album, Peroxide, will be released on 17 February 2014 in the United Kingdom. the lead single from the album "Selfies", will be released on 10th February 2014. All albums were released by Universal Music Group.

Nesbitt was born on 11 July 1994 in Edinburgh; she attended the small village school in Bellsquarry, Livingston and attended Balerno Community High School. Her father is Scottish and her mother is Swedish. She started her music career by writing and recording songs in her bedroom and uploading the videos to her YouTube channel. She plays the guitar, piano and flute. As a child, she competed in local and regional gymnastic competitions with her primary school. Before meeting Ed Sheeran, Nina Nesbitt had chocolate brown hair and was also a teenage model. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nina+Nesbitt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.