Having, in recent years, played clubs and festivals all over the world, writing soundtracks or collaborating with fellow musicians, the French vocalist, who now lives in Berlin, has finally got around to completing her debut solo album, which she has been working on whenever she found a free moment.

Brazil, China, Poland, Finland, Belgium, Germany, Holland, Spain, Italy – Ninca Leece has certainly gone the distance to bring her very own interpretation of contemporary electronic pop music to the people. And it goes something like this: musically socialized through early New Order and My Bloody Valentine, Ninca conjures up immortal melodies out of experimental electronic dance, aided by her box of tricks (her "laboratory", as she calls it). She flirts dreamily with (minimal) house, clicks & cuts and synth pop, mixing the whole thing up with a sprinkling of noise, analogue instruments and field recordings. She modestly describes her first album as "a collection of my experiments in sound and emotions – lots of funny little things, broken hearted sounds and melodies. It's about glitchiness, quirkiness, sexiness." Just listen to her version of The Cure's "Lovesong"!

Ninca Leece spent her youth in Rennes, France before, on coming of age, moving to Holland. Amsterdam and Rotterdam, to be precise, where she studied music production and singing. Since then, she has toured the globe as musician, composer, singer and producer, resolutely defending her musical independence, which is so important to her. She writes her own material, plays, records, arranges and produces her songs herself. That's her up on stage on her own as well – performing with breathtaking elegance. Her shows are often accompanied by striking visuals, created for her by video artists. Ninca usually sings in English, returning to her native tongue on occasion, or even mixing the two from time to time.

A new ep on thesongsays will be released on April 15th of this year.

Besides, 2010 will see the birth of the new 'sonic satin' project with bruno pronsato, 'Public lover'.

''Bureau B present the debut offering from Franco-German electro-chanteuse Ninca Leece, whose There Is No One Else When I Lay Down And Dream is an impressively complete package, all performed, produced and penned by Leece herself, with the exception of the album's only cover: 'Lovesong', by The Cure. It's a testament to the prominence of Leece's own personal style that it merges into her corpus of work so smoothly. Opening cut 'Touriste' is an ideal port of entry into Leece's world, pointing to references like Ellen Allien's Berlinette album, or perhaps the most beat-oriented Barbara Morgenstern recordings. By the time former single 'On Top Of The World' rolls around the production toughens up into a midtempo 4/4 format, with a Miss Kittin-like, half-spoken delivery. From here on the playlist fluctuates between various degrees of clubby appeal and poppiness, striking a great balance on a track like 'The Uncut Version', a terrific slice of glitchy future disco.'' Boomkat﻿
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ninca+Leece">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.