Ninjaman alias Don Gorgon (born Desmond John Ballentine on January 20, 1966, in Annotto Bay, Jamaica) is a popular dancehall deejay, known for his controversial and pro-gun lyrics and his stuttering and melodramatic style.

After moving from his birthplace Annotto Bay to Kingston at the age of 11, he launched his deejay career with the Black Culture Sound System at age 12 as "Double Ugly". In 1980, he joined Killamanjaro, there got the chance to learn from established deejays Super Cat and Early B, and released his debut single as "Uglyman". Yet another name change made him the now well known Ninjaman.[2] In 1987, Ninjaman recorded - and produced himself - his first hit single "Protection", a duet with Courtney Melody. The following years brought many prolific collaborations with producers like King Jammy, Witty, Xterminator, Philip "Fatis" Burrell, Redman, Ini Kamoze, Bobby Digital, Augustus "Gussie" Clarke, and Steely & Clevie and Henry "Junjo" Lawes. It has been said that Ninjaman comes up with all of his lyrics on the spot in the recording studio, in a freestyle manner.

His hits over the years 1989-1992, like "Murder Dem", "Permit to Bury" and "Above the Law" reinforced Ninjamans image of a violent rude boy. One of his most infamous rivalries (besides the ongoing quarrels with Flourgon and Super Cat) was the one with Shabba Ranks, leading to a number of clashes.

In 1993, criticism of Ninjamans violent and pro-gun lyrics arose, leading to a decline in performing gigs and chances to record.

By 1997, Ninjaman had changed his name once again, now performing gospel reggae songs as "Brother Desmond". He sought help to fight his Crack cocaine addiction in born again Christianity. It was not a complete changeover though, earning him criticism from parts of the Jamaican Christian community.

In the late 1990s, he was accused (but later acquitted), among other things, of having raped a woman at knifepoint in his home and having murdered a taxi driver. He was sentenced to one year in jail in late 1999, after being convicted of unlawfully possessing a firearm and ammunition.

In July 2001, Ninjaman was assaulted with a machete, suffering several wounds, some to the head.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ninjaman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.