Alex Koenig is an experimental / electronic producer and drummer out of Louisville.  Despite a background playing in numerous metal bands in the late 90’s, he began pursuing a solo electronic project in 2002 incorporating a multitude of styles, often with a heavy influence of psychedelia.  

Landed two remixes on renowned Brooklyn hardcore band Candiria’s “Toying With The Insanities, Vol. 3” 12” in 2010.  Engineered and co-produced Louisville hip-hop act Bird Zoo’s “Body 10” full-length in 2012.  Released two critically acclaimed records through AMDISCS: Futures Reserve Label, the first being “Nu.wav Hallucinations” in April 2013, which made numerous Best-Of-2013 lists (including Tiny Mix Tapes & Flavorwire) and was also played on the Rodarte, Sportmax, Céline, Ferragamo, and Lacoste runways for Fashion Week in Milan, New York, and Paris.

Released acclaimed ambient-gaze record “Dream Sequins®” (★★★★1/2 on Tiny Mix Tapes) in 2014, which at one point was the 2nd highest-rated vaporwave album on RYM, under Chuck Person's "Eccojams", and is noted as "taking the genre into uncharted and stratospheric territory" (Ash Beks, The Essential). The title track garnered some attention after appearing in Bronze 56K Hardware’s ***TRUST*** DVD, as well as a long stint being played in Chipotle restaurants nationwide.  Additionally, “Dream Sequins®” provided the soundtrack to Alex Czetwertynski’s original light installation “Blurware” at the 2016 Day For Night festival in Houston.  The album has been regarded as a “cult classic” (Adrian Mark Lore, The Observer) and even made a fan out of Disney actor and titular voice of “Steven Universe”, Zach Callison.  

Contributed a remix of "Radio Breakdown" for psychedelic giants The Amorphous Androgynous (aka The Future Sound Of London) on their Record Store Day exclusive 2x12” “The Cartel”, alongside DJ Food, Youth (of Killing Joke), and Noel Gallagher on bass and guitar.  Organized the massive 22nd transmission of the Terminal Radio program on FutureMusic FM, recruiting the likes of FSOL, DJ Food, Youth, Mixmaster Morris, and Ishq to contribute exclusive mixes and material. 

Released a 4+ hour psychedelic DJ mix of retro video game music "Welcome To Warp Zone!" in 2014, which was met with much acclaim in both the music and gaming communities, and garnered high praise from The Needle Drop and FACT Magazine.  Said Consequence Of Sound, “Never has an audio artifact come so close to mimicking the feel of a video game adventure, right down to snippets of the advertisements that hooked us in the first place back in the 80’s.”  As of November of 2017, “Welcome To Warp Zone!” is ranked #8 in RYM’s ‘Top DJ Mixes Of All-Time’.  

Remixed Cal Chuchesta’s “Cocoa” single for the bonus track on “The New CALassic” mixtape, which reached #1 on Audiomack in August of 2015, and shared collaborative space with Joji (Filthy Frank) and the late 3Pac.  Collaborated with Viper The Rapper (of “Y’all Cowards Don’t Even Smoke Crack infamy) on an original production, resulting in the “Death 2 Snitches” EP.  Released a much-anticipated split LP “ロストエデンへのパス (The Path To Lost Eden)” (4.5/5 on Resident Advisor) with t e l e p a t h テレパシー能力者 on Dream Catalogue in 2015, spawning a fan-remix of the opening track by Zomby (XL Recordings).  Andrew Ryce of RA wrote “When the two producers, both from the US, came together for a 2015 split full-length on Dream Catalogue, it was a high water mark for both genre and label, and arguably the peak of the original vaporwave sound before it splintered off into other subgenres.”

2017 saw the release of “Pharma”, Nmesh’s Orange Milk Records debut, and mammoth “proper” follow-up to 2014’s “Dream Sequins”.  The double-album received remix treatment from a slew of notable artists, including Odd Nosdam of cLOUDDEAD, Traxman (Teklife / Planet Mu), and Humanoid (Brian Dougans of The Future Sound Of London), as well as Orange Milk staples such as 食品まつり a.k.a foodman.  The release was a critical success, receiving a 8/10 from Exclaim!, a 4/5 from Resident Advisor, ★★★★1/2 from Tiny Mix Tapes, and a “decent 7” in a video review from The Needle Drop.  Gorilla vs. Bear ranked the album #58 on their ‘Albums Of 2017’ list.  PopMatters put it at number 10 in their list of ‘Best Avant-Garde and Experimental Music of 2017’.  Anthony Fantano wrote “Pharma is Nmesh’s most hard-hitting and ambitious project to date’, while FACT Magazine critic called it the best record in Nmesh’s discography.”  Resident Advisor praised Pharma as “an album so vast and confusing that, whenever you lose your bearings, you’ll usually find something new to enjoy each time.”  In May of 2018, Warp Records legends Red Snapper used “LD-99” for their entrance music during performances at the Glav Club in Moscow, as well as the Erarta Museum in St. Petersburg.  

Curated the monolithic 100+ track charity compilation “Memories Overlooked: A Tribute To The Caretaker”, a collaborative effort of over 90 artists, paying tribute to Leyland Kirby’s long-running ambient project exploring memory loss, nostalgia and dementia via distorted pre-war ballroom music.  FACT Magazine wrote “…The carefully-sequenced collection moves seamlessly and sounds as if it’s crumbling apart in real time.  It’s an impressive and emotional trip, and a true testament to how influential Kirby’s music has become in this sphere over the last decade.”  All digital proceeds go to ALZ.org, and the compilation has raised over $1200 for Alzheimer’s care and research to date.

Nmesh has been featured in mixes from the likes of Gorilla vs. Bear, Dummy Mag, FACT, and Tiny Mix Tapes.  Airplay on Rinse FM, BBC Radio 6, NTS Radio, and KEXP in Seattle.  Alumni of the FSOL forum’s ‘Terminal’ series, and once a member of SAINT PEPSI (Skylar Spence)’s now defunct New Generation collective.   Releases chopped & screwed D E T H W A V E as ZONΞ ΞATΞR, communist vaporwave as 영원한 아들 (Eternal Son), socialist hardvapour as Krokodil Hunter, bit-crushed alternative rock and plunderphonics as Metal Ballerina, and minimal glitch as Hyperlink on the side. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nmesh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.