There are more than one group called No Choice:
1) A punk rock band from Wales, UK.
2) A hardcore band from Tacoma, Washington, USA.
3) A straight edge punk band from Serbia. The band name is actually No Choice!.

1) NO CHOICE are a phenomenal punk rock band from Wales, UK, originally formed in 1981 and existing on and off for over 20 years! “Dry River Fishing” is NO CHOICE’s first true album. The band mixes staunch political lyrics with infectious songs that beg you to sing along, all the time directly sincere and without the slightest contrivance. NO CHOICE are the real deal!!

Reviews:

AMP MAGAZINE: ...They are awesome. They mix driving punk a la NAKED RAYGUN, and DILLINGER FOUR, with some of the melody, and political sensibilities of old Brit anarcho bands like the MOB and SUBHUMANS. ...Fucking amazing! — RK.

MAXIMUMROCKNROLL: Melodic, political, and just played with passion. This is like a cross between ZOUNDS and SNUFF, two bands that I truly love and admire. It is finding things like this that give me faith in the so called “scene”. Fucking brilliant I say. — Floyd.

KERRANG (Rating: KKKK out of 5K): NO CHOICE have successfully shifted with the times and still sound contemporary, vital and extremely hacked off with the world. NO CHOICE never forget that a punk band is supposed to have something to say. While musically, they fuse the politically charged brit-punk sound of THE RUTS and the NEWTOWN NEUROTICS with the melodic suss of US acts NAKED RAYGUN and BAD RELIGION, every song questions authority, has a message, or tells a story. “Don’t be afraid of politics, we have no choice but to question,” state the band. Wise words, indeed. — JAMES SHERRY.

TERRORIZER (Rating: 8/10): ...From the soaring bass-line of the uplifting opener, to the melancholic vocal harmonies and insistent bouncy riff of closer, this disc snares you with its passion and sincerity. Can you imagine a cross between UK anarcho punkers THE MOB and classic-era DAG NASTY? — Ian Glasper

METAL HAMMER: NO CHOICE are positively steeped in refreshingly potent, old school punk rock values. And consequently, the creation of vacuous, flavour-of-the-month, cartoon popcore is simply not an option for a quartet that initially earned their seditious spurs playing miners’ strike benefit shows under the grinding heel of Thatcher's jackboot. The admirable NO CHOICE political conscience may hark back to an earlier, less innocent era for punk, but musically speaking they’re no quaint period piece. They’ve contemporized the Babylon Burning RUTS blueprint for today's mosh constituency whilst retaining a raw, feral and righteous rage that’s both tangible and infectious. Moreover, “Dry River Fishing” is no mere one-dimensional, high-octane dirge, NO CHOICE have thankfully recognized that you don’t have to be perpetually unintelligible to prove your authenticity. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/No+Choice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.