There are several bands called No Direction.

1)  No Direction is an energy driven, four-piece rock band from Milwaukee, WI. The band is influenced by classic rock, jazz, much of the mid-west indie scene and of course, lots of metal. Since 1996 the band has evolved and the current No Direction is a mix of many different styles and influences. Their set includes newer, heavier and more energetic metal songs mixed with a lighter more progressive rock tone. They will continue to rock as long as physically possible.  They have 2 CD's released "...In The Minutes Before You Sleep" and "Rhythms Like Tides" (2002 Boxman Records)  

2)  Hailing from Helsinki, Finland, No Direction blend a mix of classic 50s Rock'n' Roll, melodic Punk rock and Power pop and serve you energetic sound track to shake your ass to. And just wait til you see these guys live cos they know how to deliver kick ass rock show. Are you ready to hit the pit?

No Direction were formed in Helsinki back in 1998 and they moved to London, England 1999. After the release of their acclaimed debut single Skip Tomorrow, they set about making a name for themselves on this side of Europe. The band toured heavily around the U.K., which established a loyal fan base. Unfortunately drummer Sasu had to move back to Finland. The rest of the boys decided to put No Direction on ice for the time being and concentrate on other pleasures in life... Pete joined the legendary Punk band The Vibrators and Hannu toured with The Datsuns. 2005, London had the pleasure of seeing a fully charged No Direction back in live action as the band got on stage for a one-off gig to salute a fallen comrade. This gig woke up a sleeping beast and now No Direction are back. Let us warn you, this beast is hungry. Pete and Hannu are now teamed up with new drummer Stidi (The Wildhearts) and guitarist Ade (Tokyo Dragons).

3) No Direction is an all-girl punk band from Indianapolis, Indiana. They released their debut album "She's The Man" in March 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/No+Direction">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.