There are two known bands with the name No Gravity;

1. A progressive power metal band from Italy:

No Gravity is a new progressive power metal outfit and the brainchild of renowned guitarist Simone Fiorletta. Their debut release ‘Worlds In Collision’ features some of the most illustrious vocalists in the power/prog metal field and sees release on Lion Music on 18th March 2011.

Conceived in early 2010 from the ashes of Italian progressive metallers Moonlight Comedy, Simone Fiorletta’s intention was to enclose in a single album the best singers of the Power/Prog world with each track tailored for each vocalists individual style; and what a selection of vocalists No Gravity have enrolled!

With Andy Kuntz (Vanden Plas), Michele Luppi (Killing Touch, ex Vision Divine), Fabio Lione (Rhapsody Of Fire, Vision Divine), Mark Basile (DGM), Roberto Tiranti (Labyrinth) and Emiliano Germani (Moonlight Comedy) providing the vocal angle this release makes a serious statement of intent from this new band.
The No Gravity line-up is completed by an equally skilled band. In addition to Simone Fiorletta’s virtuoso guitar work we have second guitarist Davide Perruzza, keyboardist Andrea De Paoli, bassist Andrea Casali and drummer Marco Aiello who all form a formidable unit with instrumental prowess and the delivery to rival the genre’s big names.

2. A slovak band from Bratislava, Slovakia:

It was formed in 1996. The music style of the band pass crossover (rock, rap, funky) or nu metal. Their music is rock with heavy guitars riffs, melodic voice, rap, samples and electronic features.

Current members are: Michal Skrak (vocals), Radoslav Balajka (guitar), Róbert Zahradník (bass) and new member Mario Marcinek (drums & bongs).

In 1997, No Gravity released first album High. Song "Sorry" sangs with czech group Chaozz. Vocalist was Daniel, korean americans.
Their second album Inverzia consist of songs as Stanem sa or Tretie Oko. Videoclip of Stanem sa song was the most expensive clip in Slovakia. Most of songs have slovak lyrics. Song The Look is special version of famous song from Roxette.
No Gravity released third studio album The Beast Of on December 12th 2007. Producer of album was David Koller, ex-frontman his own group Lucie. Album consist of 11 english songs and one slovak song. Song When will I be famous is cover version from Bros. First singel is sixth song from album Haunting Me. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/No+Gravity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.