These three guys from Sant Feliu de Guíxols, Costa Brava, have one sane obsession: not submitting to anyone's authority. And that includes recording albums when they want to and not when they should to follow any regularity, and playing when no one expects them to play or leaving us without their gigs when we expected them. Unpredictable and free, they were born 10 years ago and have delighted us with three albums only: "Seeds of enthusiasm" (1997), the unspeakable "][" (2002) and this unwritable "41º46.5'N 3º1.9'E" (2005). Uncomfortable for conformity.

 In the gaps between, Santi Garcia's agenda as a producer gives infinite resources to his already brilliant skills as guitar player and singer. And the combination of them with the astonishingly powerful base by hyper active Maxim's bass and hysterical drumming by Roger gives as a result something like an angry bulldozer fed up with highly melodic fuel. Santi's experience as a producer with first-line bands such as Standstill, Tokyo Sex Destruction, The Unfinished Sympathy, Madee, Delorean, etc., and his learning period at Engine Studios in Chicago, USA has given to him a reputation which is now as high as the huge respect that hardcore-punk audience has for No More Lies after years of tough playing around Europe, crashed vans and hard floor sleeping. 

Their close relationship to international bands such as Favez or One Man and His Droid (bands which Santi produces) give them even more prestige in our scene. And that's totally reasonable, because though being that irregularly active, we know that every time they put hands to work, result doesn't fail: a true blaster. Songs that will make you wake up from your nice sleeps and make you run until the beaches of Sant Feliu, and dive and yell to fishes that our best punk rock band is back in town. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/No+More+Lies">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.