The best not-so-kept secret in Los Angeles is NoCanDo. With 6 years of active duty in his local scene under his belt that compliments the five years of battle domination, it's no wonder that he has earned respect from peers, veterans, and up-and-comers alike.

NoCanDo's track record consist of released collaborations with artist such as; Subtitle/Gold Standard Laboratories, Thavius Beck/Mush Records, Aceyalone, Murs/Living Legends/Def Jux, Lucky I Am/Living Legends, Busdriver, Abstract Rude, 2mex/visionaries, LMNO/visionaries, Pumpkinhead and many others.

He has held his own performing on bills with such big names as MF Doom, Supernatural, Cee Lo Green, Cypress hill, Snoop Dogg, Souls Of Mischief, Typical Cats, The Chicharones, Grand Buffet, The Visionaries, Living Legends, Aceyalone, Nancy Sinatra, Rock Band the "Fucking Champs", and hes also one of the few performers to open up for the electronic band Autechre.

One thing NoCanDo wants you to know about his music is that "it is witty and unpredictable. My lyrics are very rhythmic, pattern consciuos, full of emotional content and social commentary but I try to avoid being preachy. My style is considerably atypical from what you would expect when you talk to me."

Countless thursday nights in Lemeirt Park in the Crenshaw District in South Central L.A. has made him Project Blowed's new school posterboy. Numerous battle wins (and losses) has made him Customer Service's not afraid to get dirty guy. While wearing those badges this Angelino has traveled to British Colombia, Colombia, Boston, New York, France, England, Germany, Holland, Belgium, and countless other locations giving music fans a taste of L.A's main exports -- blue collars, brown skies, bright lights, and bullshit.

With all that said be on the look out for this new artist. Nocando is sure to impress you, and leave town with kudos and approval from music fans. Thanks and your welcome. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nocando">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.