There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Nocturne was an experiental ambient group from Houston, Texas, United States, formed by Jim Wilson (guitar, percussion, handmade instruments, samples, also member of Cruor, Esoterica Landscapes 7, Voice of Eye, Asianova), Bonnie McNairn (voice, flute, also member of Esoterica Landscapes 7, Voice of Eye, Asianova) and Ure Thrall (samples, synth, string machine, voice, also member of Cruor, Terminus, Asianova).

2) Nocturne is an electronic music producer from Broken Arrow, OKlshoms USA. He has been a part of the band Symphonia with Arkane and dj.l33t, and is now putting out his debut studio album "The Doctor" through Download Audio. He has had previous works in his solo career, the Apocalyptic Chaos EP.
"The Doctor" showcases Nocturne's love of the hit TV series Doctor Who and his various types of musical writing styles. The album ranges from house, symphonies, techno, trance, and ambient. Three of the songs include his bandmates Arkane and Rayure~ from Symphonia, and it really brings out their self-described "hardstyle symphony" sound.

 
3) Nocturne is a nu metal / industrial metal band from Dallas, Texas, United States. Their album "Guide to Extinction" has received rave reviews. InMusicWeTrust.com calls Nocturne's vocalist Lacey Conner "powerfully provacative".
Nocturne has toured the U.S. with the likes of Mushroomhead, Dope, Pigface, King Diamond and Bile, and has shared the stage with bands like Ministry, the Genitorturers, Bozo Porno Circus and OHGR.
The band went on indefinite hiatus in 2006. Lacey moved to Los Angeles working on a solo project and was later selected to appear in the VH1 show "Rock of Love". Chris still resides in Dallas and plays in a few different projects including Bozo Porno Circus and Razorblade Dolls. Rotny lives in San Francisco and plays guitar in the industrial metal band Psyclon Nine

4) Nocturne is a noise / industrial project from Centre France. Nocturne is a musical representation of Art Shock visual work, which is completely based on historical facts related to the II World War. Representing on a crude way this reality in sounds images.

5) Nocturne was a black metal band from Strasbourg, France, formed in 2002.

6)  Nocturne  is a five-piece electro-gothic outfit based out of Portland, Oregon, United States. "Of Beauty and Decay", is their debut release that actually consists of mostly older material by this eighteen month old project. Perhaps the best thing about this EP is the lack of gothic stereotypes that usually befalls most new gothic bands. Jeff, the lead vocalist, doesn't feel it necessary to sign every track with an abnormally deep voice. Instead he uses his rather dynamic vocal range to reflect the variety of moods present on the record. Musically, the EP is a perfect blend of electronics, guitars, and drums. The instruments are never forced to compete with each other for dominance in the track, and instead compliment each other throughout the EP. This suggests that the band has had a great deal of previous musical experience due to the strength of the final mix of each track. Regardless, this EP is a very strong first effort from a band together for such a short time prior to it's release. Other gothic acts should really look to bands like Nocturne as examples of how to properly compose music without sounding derivative and boring, because Nocturne obviously has that skill down perfectly.

Nocturne has had the pleasure of touring with and or playing along side bands like:

SwitchBlade Symphony, Spahn Ranch, Sunshine Blind, The Electric Hellfire Club, Big Electric Cat, Christian Death, NON, Crash Worship, Black Atmosphere, The Prophetess, Test Dept., Noxious Emotion, Sheep on Drugs, The Razor Skyline, Engines Of Agression, The Impotent Sea Snakes, Trance to the Sun, Faith and Disease, Kevorkian Death Cycle, Lycia, Bethany Curve, Voltaire, Collide, The Cruxshadows, Bella Morte and many more. 

Members:
Jeff Morton  - vocals
Tad (Tadashi Hanawa) - guitars
Ashe Ruppe - bass (Of Delphine Coma, Disekt, Submarine Fleet, Trance To The Sun, Written In Ashes, The Elysium Facade
Mark Blewett - drums, additional keys
Megan Fritter (Of Backandtotheleft, Noxious Emotion, Written In Ashes) - keyboards

7) Nocturne is an Austrian black metal band from Klagenfurt, formed in 2006 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nocturne">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.