Uppsala, Sweden, 2009: Tobias, David, and Gustaf form a brand new band called Séance. The band moved incredibly fast – they formed in September, recorded a two song demo after adding guitarist Per Wikström to the lineup in October, and by November had changed their name to Noctum. Within those three months, the band signed an LP deal with High-Roller Records, and a CD deal with Stormspell Records.

Noctum’s debut album, The Séance, was released in September 2010 via High-Roller and in December by Stormspell. The band finally embarked on their first European tour in July of 2011, and followed that up with a new EP, The Fiddler. 

By August of 2011, Noctum created enough buzz in the underground to gain the attention of Metal Blade Records, which led to a new worldwide record deal. It was also during this time that Per Wikström left the band and Daniel Johansson took his place. 

With a new record deal in place with a global label, Noctum spent the majority of 2012 refining their sound and writing new songs. Their search for original and interesting material led them to a heavier and darker sound. The progression came very naturally for the band and differs from the typical 70′s vibe. The new material successfully evokes a heaviness and emotion one might not expect from a “retro” sounding band.


Noctum toured Europe again in 2012, and then welcomed the addition of drummer Fredrik Jansson after Gustaf’s departure. Jansson, who spent time in Witchcraft, Count Raven, and Abramis Brama, was added to the lineup in time to record Final Sacrifice in April 2013. 

In 2014 Daniel Johansson decided to leave the band and was shortly after replaced by Christoffer Löfgren from Swedish metal act BLADE. Noctum toured Europe in the fall and kept writing material for their next album. 

By May of 2015, Noctum recorded a new single for a 7" and digital release called "Until then...Until the end" and in support of their upcoming release they will tour Europe once again. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Noctum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.