Born of the snowy plains of Manitoba, Nocturnal Divinity is a female fronted prodigy bringing a gentle light to the darker side of alternative metal. With gentle sweeping guitars, thundering drums, an eclectic bass, underpinning synths, and captivating voice, they are sure to break the shadow upon the simplest of hearts. Between all five members, each song has its own unique styling including all different genre influences such as blues, jazz and classic rock, to a more diverse progressive tone with a European metal feel.

In early November of 2005, a dream was made and thus was the birth of Nocturnal Divinity. Originally a sextet, the group quickly tested the waters and soon evolved into the majestic quintet you see today. Once the New Year had begun and arrangements were finalized, Nocturnal set into the writing process. A few months later, the first and only member change to date took place, welcoming a new drummer to the experiment. As the rhythms were flowing and a beat slowly came from the heart of the group, it was then they emerged from the shadows and gave Canada their first glimpse of Nocturnal Divinity. Over the year, more performances came about, more hypnotizing music was written and more fans were slowly drawn to the spell of their song.

At the end of 2006, Nocturnal Divinity decided to let the rest of the world in on the little secret that Manitoba was keeping, making the first recordings of what would soon become one of the most highly anticipated moments of their musical career. It was that summer that Nocturnal released their very first self-titled demo. Eventually, more shows were coming their way, including performances with touring artists and even a short tour of their own during the summer. From Winnipeg to Halifax, Nocturnal made their mark and they knew that it wouldn’t be the last time they saw their new friends out east.

In October 2007, after a long and busy summer full of tours and several performances, Nocturnal Divinity took a much needed hiatus from the stage and hit the song writing books. It wasn’t until March 2008 that the group resurfaced and set out on the road again for their first few shows in months. The crowds were drawn in and hypnotised once again, and Nocturnal remembered why they thrived for the stage. In April, they finally entered the studio to begin recording the long awaited debut album which was given the title Somehow in Sorrow. The album will be released in late July 2008.

(Taken from Nocturnal Divinity's Myspace)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nocturnal+Divinity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.