Noctem is an  Extreme metal band from Valencia (Spain), characterized for executing a mix of musical styles such as Death Metal, Melodic Black metal and Thrash metal influences.

It is also characterized for a striking warlike esthetic, unmarked from the classic Black Metal scene, for their lyrics content, based on the cult to former civilizations and their lifestyle: war, destruction, death and old deities belief. The band offers in their live shows a visual and violent spectacle, to represent in a faithfully way the content of their lyrics.

Noctem consolidates as an extreme metal band in April 2001. 

In 2002 the band records their first work “Unholy blood” which was commercialized for 2 years. After several formation changes the band continues their way making national level concerts and composing new tracks, totally immersed in the search of a more personal music style. 

The band releases during two years their live cd “live 2004” auto produced and recorded in their natal city. 

In 2007/2008, after the departure of two of their most ancient members a restructure takes place in the band to later on, release the record of the mcd “God Among Slaves”. With the release of this work and the big success among the online press and metal heads, the band, with its new components, fulfills different  tours through the country accompanied in the Spanish stages by foreign bands… 

In 2008 the band signs with the label Noisehead Records (Austria) and carries out an european  tour “Noctem European Tour 08” where the band destroys the European stages of Spain, Portugal, France, Andorra, UK, Belgium and Italy. 

In January of 2009 the band records at Vienna their debut album “Divinity” which counts with the collaborations of Christos Antoniou (Septic flesh and Chaos star) and of Leal (ex-Forever Slave). The album was released in April by the musical seal Noisehead Records in Europe and in May with Relapse Records in the USA. For the present time, the band has recorded two videos exracted from the album "Divinity",  standing out the violent and censored "Across Heracles towards", directed by Miguel Angel Font Bisier.

The band performs different presentations of the album “Divinity” in festivals and tours, like the ones at Spain or Portugal in 2009, sharing stage in some concerts with first level bands like Malevolent Creation (USA), Vomitory (Sweden) and Napalm Death, in their spanish dates.

In 2010, Noctem goes out on tour with very high level bands like Incantation and Hate in a european tour in January, stopping by Great Britain, France, Spain, Belgium, Italy, Germany, Netherlands and Chez Republic.

In february of the same year the band records their third video extracted from their album "Divinity", that will be released in the summer of 2010.

Acquiring major recognition in both national and international level. In May, of the same year, Noctem gets involved in another european tour with the Norwegian Black metal band Ragnarok, this time sharing stages in countries like: Austria, Germany, Poland, Netherlands and Belgium.

In november of 2010 the band joins Gorgoroth on tour, this time through Eastern Europe and other countries; also sharing stages with bands like Finntroll and Carach Angren.

Nowadays Noctem is finishing the process of creation of their next album, foreseen for 2011, while they continue devastating the international stages. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Noctem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.