Node of Scherzo/ノード・オブ・スケルツォ was a theatrical rock show act from Japan composed of Kamijo (ex-LAREINE, Versailles), Juka (ex-Moi dix Mois), and Kaya (ex-Schwarz Stein, ex-another cell). Jasmine You (Versailles, HIZAKI grace project, ex-雀羅) and HIZAKI (Versailles, HIZAKI grace project) were also prominent members of the show. 

The act played only three shows. The three main players (the vocalists) represented different themes. Kamijo was light, Juka was darkness and Kaya was beauty. 

At these shows, skits (or small plays) were performed with members of the supporting bands playing minor roles. The other members of Versailles were prominent. Guest appearances by artists such as ASAGI and KANZAKI were made during the events. 

Throughout the shows, each member performed their respective works (Kaya and Juka solo, and Kamijo with Versailles). Often, the vocalists performed each other's songs as well. The songs performed related to the skits performed and were as much a part of the show as the skits.

The first show, held at Shibuya O-WEST on March 14th 2007, was about a love triangle involving the three main characters (KAMIJO, Juka, and Kaya). The second concert (May 4th, 2007) had a similar plot: KAMIJO and Juka, representing repectively light and darkness, led two armies (composed of several guests) which fought each other for the love of Kaya.
The last concert (October 31st, 2007) was a vampire-themed Halloween special. Juka played the role of a pure hero fooled by the fiendish queen of the vampires (Kaya) and 'her' husband (KAMIJO). For this event KANZAKI and all the members of Versailles joined the main cast.
Node of Scherzo also performed one song as a secret guest at some of the concerts of the national tour 日本耽美革命 (Nihon Tanbi Kakumei) and at the Christmas Eve event of Sherow Artist Society.

Bands involved included: 

Versailles
HIZAKI grace project 
-The- UnForGiveness
UnsraW
摩天楼オペラ (Matenrou Opera)
MASQUERADE
Ｓｕｇａｒ

The first and only release from Node of Scherzo was a self-titled one track single that was released on October 31, 2007. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Node+of+Scherzo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.