Hello person, welcome to this place… A place that captures and compresses everything you need to know about Noisia in the smallest possible amount of space and time: Since breaking through in 2003 Nik Roos, Martijn van Sonderen and Thijs de Vlieger have consistently questioned and pushed musical and technical boundaries. Their diverse range of accomplishments are just as likely to be found within gaming, movies and theatre as they are on the dancefloor. Through their popular Noisia Radio show, Noisia Invites events and labels – Vision, Division – they unswervingly champion and amplify new talent… Ensuring their unique presence and influence isn’t just felt across the broadest possible electronic music landscape, but also encourages the next generation to approach the craft with a similar sense of detail, fun and ambition as their own.

Operating out of their ambitious high tech studio complex in Groningen, Noisia creations range from stark experimental soundscapes to precision-engineered club sledgehammers. They can be found across myriad singles, two critically acclaimed artist albums (Split The Atom and Outer Edges), their brutalist hip-hop fusion exploration I Am Legion with Foreign Beggars, and scores such as cult game Devil May Cry and contemporary ballet Sleeping Beauty Dreams. They’ve remixed acts from Pendulum to The Prodigy, their collaborations range from Amon Tobin to KRS-One, and both their DJ sets and their immersive unique Outer Edges A/V performance concept are equally diverse and daring.

Fundamentally, they never sit still. Like their music, performances and ventures in other worlds, Noisia are paradoxically both fine-tuning and broadening their operations, approach and vision. In the years that have followed their successful Outer Edges album, the trio have ploughed through the last part of the decade with a strong sense of immediacy, releasing tracks on a near-monthly basis that are often so fresh they’re just weeks out the studio. Meanwhile their labels have exulted new-gen talent such as Tsuruda, Former, Samba, Signal, Chee and HØST, pitching them alongside more established kindred spirits such as The Upbeats, Mefjus, Posij and many more.

Still questioning musical and technical boundaries, still finding unique ways to articulate themselves in a noisy and devilishly perplexing industry; Noisia remain at the very forefront of electronic music, studio craft and sound design culture. For exclusive and upfront examples of their endeavours and unique glances into their future ahead of anyone else, become a Patron. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Noisia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.