There are multiple artists with the name "Nola".
1 - Latvian Singer Karina Khvoinitskaya, known professionally as Nola is a Latvian singer from Moscow, Russia.


2 - Croatian band from Pula famous for their hit song 'Dio tebe'.
3 - Russian indie / piano-rock band from Moscow.
4 - Alternative country band from Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
5 - Folk band from Tashkent, Uzbekistan
6 - NoLA is an "extreme doomy hardcore" band from Tokyo, Japan. https://nolajapan.bandcamp.com/

2) Nola is band from Pula famous for their hit song 'Dio tebe'.

2)Nola are a Russian band from Moscow. Nola's music has been described as "post-punk", "space-rock", "piano-rock" though the band members are hesitant to use any of these terms and prefer to avoid all kinds of stylistic definitions. 
The band is composed of Anastasia M (lead vocals,piano), Vick V (lead guitar), Jenya P (guitar), Fedor S (bass guitar) and Dasha Z (drums, percussion).
The band formed in 1999 and released their first album, Nothing really exists, in 2001. 
The next release, EP Meanwhile  followed in 2003.
Since then the band has undergone numerous changes and, due to the reasons that are beyond our understanding, has kept out of sight till 2006. In August 2006 the band played the first gig after a 3-year break.
Nola are currently recording their next album which will include all the new songs of the band and, according to the band members' words, will be very different from the previous records. The band is looking for an independent label to release their new creation.
Nola regalarly perform on stage in Moscow and neighbouring towns but are also willing to tour abroad.  

3) Nola from Raleigh, North Carolina, were an alternative country band. The band's self-titled debut, and only, album was recorded between March and October 2006. Justin Vernon from DeYarmond Edison and Bon Iver played banjo and piano on some of the tracks.  
The band played their last show in April 2007. Their album is available for free through Virb.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nola">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.