This band started as death metal combo, back then under the name NOMEN MORTIS, in spring 1992, and was founded by Ivo (bass), Martin (vocals) and Rolo (drums). In winter 92/93 N.M. joins the guitarrists Marian and Dano. Since these beginnings band played only its own songs with lyrics in English. The first six tracks were recorded in May 1993 as band's first rehearsal demo "Unofficial '93". Tape has never been spread officially because of not so great soundquality. Now it's only rare stuff or recollection on band's beginnings. In September '93 the band started to play live actions. But in October the same year Ivo has returned to Zlín (CZ), his birthplace. The new bassplayer Mato (now in Obliterate) played with band since 12/1993. In 1/ 1994 band recorded it's second rehearsal demo "Around The House It Is Good", with 4 tracks, only for needs of the band. Marian left NOMEN MORTIS in April 1994 and the band carried on with only one guitar. All existing material was annulled and during a few months totally new songs were created. The new stuff was recorded in August 1994 as band's first official demo "Twilight Of Humanity" (intro, 6 tracks and outro, from 8track studio). Musically it was faster, more or less technical and brutal death metal, with influences from heavy metal to grind core. Demo was positively received by listeners, magazines, labels atc. in Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia, Yugoslavia, Poland, Spain, Italy, Scandinavia, North and South America...About 1300 copies were sold or sent as promo through the years, and the demo is sold out now, except of a little reedition on Slava 'zine/productions in Thailand in spring 2000. Some compositions from "T.O.H" were released on various domestic or foreign tape compilations.
After the release of demo the band took part in some festivals, but in January 1995 Dano suddenly left the band because instead of doing a civil service he went to the army for one year. N.M. carried on with very talented guitarrist Igor, but during the preparations of new material he fell into serious health problems and the band temporarily stopped its activities. Early 1996 N.M.started to play again in demo line-up, but after some shows and some new songs Dano, then also Rolo and Mato decided to leave the band, mainly because of different views on band's music. In autumn 1996 Martin stayed alone, but unbroken and with still belief in extreme music. Existing name NOMEN MORTIS he turned into NOMENMORTIS immediately and started to search for new members for the band, able to create really brutal and extreme death metal with it's own identity. The new line-up was founded between November 1996 and May 1997. Martin (vocals), Mato H.(guitar), Sano (guitar, in studio also the bass) and Robo (drums, playing also in CONTEMPT) started to work on the new songs, and played some very successful shows with the set, including not only their own compositions, but also the covers of Kataklysm, Death, At The Gates and Dark Funeral. Their new material could be described as Hyperblasting Death Metal, or vert fast, brutal, but also melodic and atmospheric compositions. The band brought well constructed songs, matured guitar solos and brutal vocals, from lowest gurgling to screaming insanity. Lyrics were dark, cruel, sad, sometimes cynical or misanthropic, very often inspired also by reality. NOMENMORTIS is band not orientated to politics or religion. Lyrics are just individual thoughts and feelings of the vocalist. Between 1. - 6. April 1999 the band recorded the material for its debut album - 10 songs (2 instrumental ones) plus intro and outro, with professional sound. The name of album is "How I Learn To Bleed...For The Things I Wish To Forget". Worldwide reactions on the promos were very positive both from press and from those labels who wrote back to the band. But there was a problem to get a serious contract for the release. Mato left the band after the shows in July 1999, and was replaced by Peter in August. In winter/spring 2000 RAZORBACK Records from USA and Burning Abyss ' zine from Poland put the band's song on their CD compilations. In May 2000 Erik started to play bass in NOMENMORTIS, and in June the band signed the contract with japanese label JACKHAMMER MUSIC for the CD release of "How I Learn..." CD was released in late August 2000. In the same time the band parted its ways with Sano, who decided to join Dementor. He was replaced by Mato O. some months ago. The new material was recorded in May 2001. This CD contained 10 songs (7 new, 2 of them are instrumental, next 2 ones are re-recorded from the 1st album, and the last track is a KATAKLYSM cover) on 33:09 min. This new stuff was way more brutal, straightforward, dark and extreme, with raw and heavy sounds. Although this material may seem "too extreme" for some listeners of metal music, the reactions so far are very positive, there are already some next compilations released, new songs are played by radios in several countries etc.
In the last months of 2001 Downfall Records from Sweden signed the band for MCD release (5 songs, under the title "Misanthrone"), and the whole stuff recorded in 6/2001was released as 10 track CD (the title is "The Day You'll Lose Your Head) on Mexican label Dreamfog Musick. The band during its existence played a couple of very successfull shows, including prestigeous extreme metal festivals in Slovakia and Czech republic. In January 2002 there was the next line-up change. NOMENMORTIS is a quartett now - Martin, vocals, Adam , guitars and backing vocals, Funes bass (both from goregrind band Cruent Stercuraro) and Mato K., drums. The band plays live again, with the material from the next full-length CD, which was recorded in March 2003. The new album, entitled "Exterminating The Bastard Forces" contains 10 songs + intro & outro. It's supposed to be released on Downfall Records again. Be prepared for very brutal death metal, combining the band's previous style with more grind/gore (not lyrically) influences. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nomenmortis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.