Always ripping up the uncharted territories of extreme sound, Nominal Abuse were never too afraid to be labeled as far from an ordinary band. Formed in Novi Sad at the beginning of 1999s as No Abuse, trying to create an unusually powerful sound based on an old grindcore formula. This stirred up the predominantly punk-rocky scene, and the word was out. Fusing and mixing the elements of blasting grind/death, modern hardcore power and crust atmospheres was good enough to bridge the gap from punk to metal in a unique way. The group's first material "Jebeni Napredak" ("Fucking Progress") also proved influential for future Serbian grindcore scene. One year later, a more hardcore powered EP was introduced as a split with a vicious Croatian band Senata Fox. However, after the original drummer Dusan left in 2004. not much was heard from the group for several years afterwards, since it was put into an indefinite hiatus. The outfit reactivated in 2006. with Predrag on drums, presenting what is to become their much more progressive sound on Novi Sad Hardcore compilation, a sound tribute to their hometown' underground scene. Having played various clubs and festivals around Serbia, most notably famous Exit Festival in '08, and toured with Cripple Bastards, their vulgar yet effective powerful live act is captivating. During all these years, the group established a name for themselves, but international recognition always seemed to fall short of their grasp. Finally an invite to play the legendary Obscene Extreme festival 2011 in Czech, and their performance, this time with Zoltan on drums changed all that. Now putting finishing touches to a first full-length, with the most creative line-up they've had, Nominal Abuse are in an unstoppable offence. Be sure to check these guys out because, well, it's worth it.

http://www.nominalabuse.com/
http://nominalabuse.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nominal+Abuse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.