There are several artists who use the name Non/NoN/NON:

1) Boyd Rice, an American noise musician.
2) Norio Hanzawa, a video game music composer.
3) Japanese singer-songwriter from Hokkaido.
4) improvisation project featuring Ray Evanoff, et al.
5) Italian post-punk band.
6) Rena Nōnen, a Japanese singer and actress.
7) Swedish multi-instrumentalist also called Stigmata.

1) Originally a duo with Robert Turman, NON is the moniker for solo noise musician Boyd Rice. The first release under the name NON was the 1977 album Mode of Infection/Knife Ladder. Most of NON's music has been released on the Mute Records label. Later albums have often been explicitly conceptual.

2) Non is the recording name of Norio Hanzawa (半沢 紀雄), a composer of video game music. His first soundtrack was 1994's Dynamite Headdy. Non is one of the original members of Treasure Co. Ltd. and is responsible for the soundtrack to their debut game, Gunstar Heroes. Since then he has either contributed to or has been involved with the soundtrack for every published Treasure game.

3) Non is a Japanese singer-songwriter from Hokkaido. Her debut album release was 1998's Honest (素直). Her representative songs are "Hoshi no Senro" (星の線路), "Akushu" (握手) and "Aoi-mori no Message" (青い森のメッセージ). In 2001, she released her last album Treatment.

4) non was a one-time improvisation project featuring Ray Evanoff, Kieran Daly, Sam Sfirri, Ron Wiltrout, and Jason Brogan. It yielded one record, by virtue of the fact (2008), released digitally on insides music.

5) NoN is an alternative rock/post-punk band from Florence, Italy. They released the album Sancta Sanctorum in 2016.

6) のん (NON) is the stage name of Rena Nōnen (born 1993), a Japanese singer, actress, and model. Her first album, Super Heroes, was released in 2018.

7) Non is an alternate name of Swedish multi-instrumentalist Stigmata. He is a former member of Lifelover, Woundism, IXXI and Hypothermia (live). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Non">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.