Non-Divine recently released the concept album "Asylum 45", a fictional concept album about a psychiatric hospital. In each song a patient tells their story. All patients are very different from each other and will enter your mind with all their mixed-up emotions. Let the music affect your brain and you will meet them all. When you feel the grooves and discover the strong harmonies and melodies, there’s no way back. You will be surrounded by madness of a special kind.

Some song titles are New Die-Hard Vampire, Visions and Sleep. The first homemade demo-CD “My Obsession” opened a lot of doors for Non-Divine. The new material is even stronger, more melodic and catchier.

Non-Divine took part of the Metal Grand Slam Tour 2001, presented by Aardschok magazine, Holland’s biggest metal magazine. For seven weeks the twenty-five shows toured The Netherlands and Belgium and called in at venues like 013-Tilburg, Paradiso-Amsterdam, Flanagans-Brussels, Podium-Hardenberg and many more.

Apart from that they were support acts for huge bands like Dio, Murderdolls (with Slipknot members)  and Anthrax. They can often be found on stages throughout the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. Non-Divine receives lots of enthusiasm from the crowd and have built a large, ever-growing fan-base throughout the years.

In the year 2003 Non-Divine supported Anthrax and Murderdolls, had many gigs, a Dutch mini tour, won the “best band of Arnhem” prize and played on festivals like Appelpop and Huntenpop.

In the year 2004 they recorded their debut concept album “Asylum 45” in the famous Hansen studios in Denmark. The studio of Invocator main man Jacob Hansen who also recorded for bands like Raunchy, Mercenary and Communic. From that time on Non-Divine was searching for a record deal. They won the Aardschok’s Metal Bash competition 2005.

Currently they finally have a record deal with Rusty Cage Records, so we can expect to hear from them soon enough.

The original lineup consisted of Ivor van Beek (guitars, vocals), Martin van Beek (guitara, backing vocals), Paul Groeneveld (bass) and Ruben Viets (drums). Ruben was replaced midway through 2007 by Vincento Amatngali. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Non-Divine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.