Hunting down the elusive Nordic Giants is about as easy as tracking down the truth of the legend in the Blair Witch Project. Hidden behind feathered masks, demonic looking costumes and effortlessly changing between many instruments, nobody is fully aware of their true identity and their ritualistic pre show preparations of body painting and donning feathered masks and animal skins is nothing short of shamanistic. 

The mysterious duo perform live soundtracks to a backdrop of award winning short films which do not shy away from dealing with poignant and dark subject matters. Dreamy ambient swells, epic builds and huge moments of power overwhelm their captivated audiences who describe the experience as something akin to a religious experience.

The Brighton based post-rock duo smashed onto the music scene little over a year ago. Influenced by the likes of Massive Attack and Cinematic Orchestra, the band have already shared the stage with Lamb, Ratatat, Mogwai and headlined The World Premiere of ‘The Blot Symphony’, an inspirational visual art piece created by Ralph Steadman.

‘If you have been itching to discover something entirely new and refreshing, look no further than this Brighton based duo who are set to take the indie world by storm. Writing and performing entirely between the two of them, these young talents have created some of the most beautiful and heart-wrenching songs in years.’ (Plaid Magazine Canada)

“Giants in a time of dwarves…. I felt that I might as well pack up now, put down my brushes, with the knowledge that one is working in a lesser medium.” (Chris Bucklow Internationally re-knowned artist)

“Exciting, passionate and well-crafted, the Nordic Giants’ show is a tour de force.”
(William Goodchild BBC Film Composer)

“Go and see them, but be warned, you’ll never be the same again” (Dominic Weston – Director)

“Seeing Nordic Giants play was one of those rare moments of pure, joyous relief, where you see there are elements of life that can be just perfect. What’s more, that those creating the new, near faultless music could soon very well be about to make it big..” (LM Fosse Way Magazine)

“Truly inspirational, a must see for all music lovers and film buffs” – (Bram Ttwheam – Aardman Animations)

“Nordic Giants are truly a phenomenon. See them and you’ll be forced to create a whole new genre in the musical categories of your head.” (Shorts International)

“Until now, Britain has been missing a really great emerging post-rock band. Perhaps Nordic Giants are the answer?” (This Music Wins)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nordic+Giants">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.