Norot (Robert W. Cook), is an American born artist, occultist, architectural draughtsman and musician who is currently residing in Ireland. A artistic and visual approach to occult exploration has become some of the defining elements within the artists work entwining numerous mythic themes and undercurrents that often invoke the archetypes present within magical thought and initiation. he seat of Inspiration for Norot's art lies shrouded within the veils of chaotic gnosis and Luciferian symbolism and draws influence from the art and writings of William Blake, Gustave Doré, Albrecht Dürer, H.R. Giger, Aleister Crowley and Austin Osman Spare. His most recent work to date has been cover art for Wolfpack 44's forthcoming album "The Scourge" which will be released through Deadlight Entertainment as well as cover art for the latest album from the legendary occult rock band Coven. He is also within mid production on several projects for Nephilim Press at this time as well as producing many personal and commissioned art projects. Often the concepts do reflect dark, mythic and occult themes dealing with enlightenment, death, rebirth, Initiation. These themes are evident but hidden within is an even deeper and obscure language, from the black ever rolling abyss to the the gates of Elizium these are ever present regions within consciousness and a metaphorical reflection of the microcosm of the cosmos that is the human soul. Primarily drawing ideas from mythology and studies of various disciplines of the occult, These would consist of both the left and right hand paths to self knowledge as well as thelemic, shamanistic, gnostic and kabbalistic elements and archetypes. Seeking to explore the Luciferian archetypes that dwell within temples of the subconscious, to enhance and at times redefine their role and how they relate to us and our relationship with the higher self. Norot is available for commissions although there may be a short waiting list due to the volume of work at this time. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Norot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.