Northgate is the name used since 1992 by Trevor, vocalist of Camerata Mediolanense, to sign his solo projects. The concept is not having a "one man band", but a group, whose components change according to the style options and the music ideas. Northgate's artistic path swings between electronic-noises and typically Industrial terms.
After some demo tapes, during 1995 Northgate releases the LP "Liturgie pour la fin de la Patrie", printed in a very limited edition of 108 copies, now chased relentlessly by collectors and available today in CD including some bonus tracks which refer to the same period. "Liturgie…" represents a fundamental step, underlined by rarefied and penetrating atmospheres… but always under the banner of self-production. 
Psychodrama (1998) is a tribute to the most extreme "power-electronics": a change of language and instrumentation, made in order to stop being considered an "apocalyptic band" at all costs... 
Quite different is the structure of the most recent CD "The Blue builders", perhaps the most ripe result at research and experimental level. Preceded by the single "In every Dreamhome a Heartache" (not included in the CD), "The Blue builders" collects the atmospheres of the metropolis and the noise of the construction, in the most physical sense (as underlined by the perturbing cover). Sounds are generated by conventional instruments, and by machines, moving from the "soft" electronics of "Monique Electronique" towards the Eighties passages of "Fidia", down to the devasting title track. 
The new album ‘Terrarivum IV’ , preceded by the single ‘Forever Charming’ (as usual not included in the album), presents big differences from the previous releases, and a step towards the future of Northgate’s sound. The arrival of DAN, the guitarist now involved, brings the band towards a darker psychedelia. 
The new line-up also include YLO , who used to play in Cold and author of various Japan noise projects, and ‘IL BUE’, whose main band are Larsen. 
This new incarnation recently released ‘Oldkoala’ EP, which bears sounds considered as the new expression of the group sounds.






Hyper & Driven, GRINDIN' 'N' GROOVIN'. Northgate was founded in 1998 by Ruud Nijholt (vocals) and Lucas Groenwold (guitars). After all kinds of different line-ups, they eventually found their ideal bandmembers in Tjerk de Boer (drums), Herman Kleinsmit (bass) and Wouter Meijer (guitars). In June 2001 they recorded their first and self-named mini-cd. Soon after these recordings Lucas left the band. Northgate played with one guitarist for a while, until February 2002 when Carel Hartsuiker joined the battle. In the beginning of the year 2003 Ruud left the band who was replaced by Peter Kamphuis. A few months later Wouter left the band and another few months later Tjerk also left. Northgate spend half a year looking for a new drummer and she was found in Teffie Schneider who started playing with the band in April 2004.

Finally converged to the 4-strong army and the BRUTAL ENERGETIC TRASHCORE sound of today, Northgate released their Promo 2005 containing three onew songs and were taking their place in battle again on stage. For the time being Northgate decided to continue with only one guitar player until Martin Uildriks (Xi-Void) decided to add his smooth trashy licks to the group in June 2006. Because of increasing disagreements about the headed direction of the band the last original member Herman left the band in october 2006 for Feike Laffeber (ex - Nekschot & Final Ground) to take his place place only a few weeks later: welcome & cheers brother!!

Through the years and many line-up changes their sound has by now converged to a modern cross-over of brutal, energetic metalcore combined with the not abandoned old-school death/trash elements of former days.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Northgate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.