The purpose of Northern Terror is to spread the power of free will and individuality that can be found and obtained through the power of Satan. It is Northern Terror’s intent to create powerful and moving music with artistic integrity and vision to convey their message. Northern Terror stands for the Individual, the Free Thinker and for those who have the integrity to stand against conformity and posses the power to be all that they can be. Northern Terror stands against the bigotry of organised religion, its monotheistic and fanatical views. Oppression, Fascism and the corrupt governments that stake claim to their countries. People who disgrace themselves by not helping themselves. Northern Terror was founded in the middle of 2006 by Garr. Created as a means to express his musical and artistic notions beyond the realms of his involvement and membership of the British metal band Talamasca. 2007 saw the self release of the first Northern Terror album Blacker than Black. With this album Garr explored the possibilities and events that could exist when Pagan Mythology and its ancestral history is exposed to the free will of Satan and the Individuality that Satanism promotes. The Album was well received by the Black Metal community and gained respect and fans throughout Europe, Norway, Russia and the U.S. In 2008 Northern Terror released a 4 track E.P entitled La Rivi’re Sombre. This E.P was written and recorded in Burgundy France. La Sombre as it is now known amongst fans was a combination of the musical roots and elements of Black Metal meeting the dark beauty of such emotions found within doom and the ambiance of despair. The E.P delved into the realms of lust and deceit concluding in the ecstasy of Revenge. This combined with the visual artwork that was released with the E.P and for the first time including the lyrics in the E.P’s sleeve. La Sombre Rivi’re again showed the Diversity and Quality of Garr’s writing and vision. The La Sombre E.P was again self released but this time limited to 400 copies and was distributed amongst fans on a first come first served basis. It is now unavailable. 2010 now sees a new chapter for Northern Terror.The band is now in the process of writing and recording the second full studio release.

Current Line up:
Garr - Vocals, Guitar, Drums, Programming and Keys
John - Bass
Sam - Lead Guitar




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Northern+Terror">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.