This page represents several different artists/bands using the name North/NORTH:

1. An American sludge metal band from Arizona, founded in 2005.
2. A Polish black metal band from Toruń, founded in 1992.
3. An American industrial rock band from Chicago, founded in 1993.
4. An American post-punk band from Philadelphia, founded sometime in the 90s.
5. An Australian band.
6. An Alternative band from New Delhi, India

1. NORTH is the moniker of the Arizona-based atmospheric sludge metal quintet.
Formed by drummer Zachary Hansen, bassist Evan Leek, and guitarist Ty Engle as an instrumental trio in 2005, NORTH added guitarist Matthew Mutterperl and self released their EP "Siberia" in the Summer of 2006, followed by extensive touring. In 2007 the group released their follow up EP "Ruins," noted for exploring a darker sound previously hinted at on "Siberia". After adding keyboardist Peter Ridgeway and vocalist Kyle Hardy, the critically acclaimed "What You Were" was released in July 2008 by Toledo, Ohio-based Cavity Records, followed by two years of various tours throughout the U.S. Not shortly thereafter, Ty Engle left the band, and writing for the next full length began in January 2010. Pete left amicably in 2011, and guitarist Kyle Szostek was welcomed later that year. Their fourth album, The Great Silence, was themed around the question of extraterrestrial life and saw an August 2012 release with six weeks of tour support covering much of the US. 2013 saw the departure of vocalist Kyle Hardy as well as guitarist Kyle Szostek, leaving the band as a three-piece with Evan Leek assuming both vocals and bass. Their 4-song EP Metanoia is the first form of output from the newly-minted trio and features a focused, stripped-down attack, amplified with soaring vocals and loud, jarring riffs. The band self-released Metanoia on March 11, 2014, returning to a more active tour schedule than they have in years previous. 

More information and tour dates can be found at http://www.northband.us 


2. North is a Polish band, founded in 1992 in Toruń by Sirkis and Thorn. In february 1993 drummer Nithramous comes to the band and in may they recorded rehearsal demo called ”Entering the Dark Kingdom”. In november 1993 when they recorded second demo "As My Kingdom Rises", guitarist Vermighor joined to the band. In december 1993, line-up was crystallizes and bass player Sabesthor joined to the band. In early years they played Raw Black Metal, but from 2002 they play Pagan War Black/Death Metal. North also released Kat's cover "Noce Szatana" on „Czarne Zastępy: W Hołdzie KAT” in october 1996.

Current line-up:
Sirkis - Guitar, Vocals (Grom (Pol), My Infinite Kingdom, Fight (Pol), Selossed)
Marcin - Guitar (Algebra)
Sabesthor - Bass ([[artist]Grom (Pol), My Infinite Kingdom, Selossed)
Hellrider aka Lola - Drums (Croque-Mort (Pol), Algebra)

Past members:
Thorn - Guitar, Vocals (Neasit)
Zemial - Guitar (Venedae, The Lord, Midnight (Pol), Angrenost (Pol), Demiurg Błyskawicy)
Vermighor - Guitar
Aothar - Guitar (Grom (Pol), Selossed)
Sławoj Orzeł Trivialis  - session Guitars (Nów, Majestat, Stara Pieśń, Stanica, Grom (Pol), Fornostem, Orłów Kraina, Kurhany, Zarzewie)
Nithramous - Drums (Neasit)

Discography:
Demos, rehearsals & promos:
1993 Entering The Dark Kingdom
1993 As My Kingdom Rises
1993 Rehearsal June 1993
1994 Promo 94
Studio albums:
1995 Thorns On The Black Rose
1998 From The Dark Past
2002 Korona (The Crown)
2006 Na Polach Bitew (In The Battlefields)
2011 Czekając Na Sztorm (Waiting For The Storm)
Best of..:
2000 Wojna Trwa (The War Rages On)
Splits:
1996 Jesienne Szepty (Autumnal Whispers) (with Sacrilegium (Pol))
1998 Sovereigns Of Northernlands
2000 Jesienne Szepty/Przedświt... (Autumnal Whispers/Daybreak...) (with Sacrilegium (Pol) and Neasit)
2005 Lechia, Slawia, Aria (with Gromowładny)
2007 Eastern Hammer (with Graveland, Nokturnal Mortum and Темнозорь (Temnozor))

http://www.north.art.pl/
http://www.myspace.com/northpl

3. NORTH is a four-piece Industrial Metal band from Chicago that was formed in 1993 by producer/engineer, drummer, and keyboardist Brian Eaton. North uses technology to the hilt, giving the band its industrial strength rock sound, but there’s more hiding below the surface. North’s vocalist Don Grillo manipulates his voice in unearthly ways, scowling and screaming, drifting into harmonies then laying his soul bare. Bassist Nick Sanzeri knocks the listener flat with intricate bass lines coming up from the depths. Classically trained, Sanzeri is the perfect compliment to Eaton’s rhythmic base. Jon Studtmann has the duty of filling in the high parts with searing guitar work. Equal parts of metal and rock mixed with a style all his own, Studtmann uses his guitar as an emotional Richter scale, reversing the feel of a tune with the changing of a note. Eaton’s samples provide an overall gothic feel to the band’s debut disc, Genocidal World.

4. A band by the name of North also existed for a short time in 1998 and recorded one 7" EP for the MindWalk Recording label.   Featuring former members from Elements of Need,  I Am Heaven,  Goodbye, Blue Monday, and  Lollycolumn.

5. NORTH are also four local musicians from Melbourne, Australia - Alf, Beau, Joel and Thanh - doing their own thing in the music business.

6. NORTH was formed in early 2012 by singer and songwriter Jordan Johnson, drummer Akshay Deokuliar and electric guitarist Shobith John, and were joined shortly after by Sean and Zoe Tuckey contributing to the band bass, piano and vocals.
Their first album is Pieces of Mind, released on 27th February 2015.

More information and tour dates can be found at:
* https://www.northbandinsoundcloud.com/northbandin
* https://www.facebook.com/northbandin 
* https://twitter.com/northbandin <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/North">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.