Bostich + Fussible are two members of the North-Mexican ensemble Nortec Collective who perform live together now that the 4 piece group is on hiatus. Bringing a fusion of traditional Norteño and electronic music.

Nortec Collective emerged from the burgeoning Tijuana electronic scene, performing a style of music that they invented called Nortec - a fusion of Norteño (“from the North”) and Techno, documenting the collision between the style and culture of electronica music, characterized by hard dance beats, and samples from traditional forms of Mexican music. With two albums (Tijuana Sessions Vol. 1 and Tijuana Sessions Vol. 3) under their belts, the Nortec sound has been embraced by an international audience and has become an entire movement encompassing music, film and graphic design.
Ever-evolving, the Nortec Collective presents Bostich + Fussible “Tijuana Sound Machine”, featuring brand new tracks from Fussible (Pepe Mogt) and Bostich (Ramon Amezcua). Fans are already familiar with the stylings of Bostich and Fussible as the masterminds behind tracks like “Tengo La Voz”, “Tijuana Bass”, and “Tijuana Makes Me Happy” off the double Grammy-nominated 2005 album, ‘Tijuana Sessions, Vol. 3’ (Nacional Records) and can expect more of this unique blend of accordions, tubas, trumpets, norteño percussion, vocoders, drum machines and synthesizers. The first single off the new album will be the title track, “Tijuana Sound Machine”.

“With “Tijuana Sessions, Vol. 3”, we focused on fusing vocoders, synthesizers and drum machines with the Norteño flavor,” explains Pepe Mogt (Fussible). “This time around, we really relied more on the acoustic sound. We tried to achieve a better balance between the acoustics and the electronics. While some tracks on “Tijuana Sound Machine” aren’t even a month old yet, others have been around for a couple of years. We actually wrote many of these songs while on the road promoting ‘Tijuana Sessions.’”

Nortec Collective toured the world, from Latin America, the United States, Europe, Japan and Australia. An extensive U.S. and European tour featuring Bostich and Fussible is planned to coincide with the new release. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Nortec+Collective+Presents+Bostich+%252B+Fussible">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.