Northern Lights can refer to at least six different groups:

(1) Post-Hardcore band from Denver, CO. Side project of Mikey Sawyer and Josh Kikta of Miss Fortune.

(2) American hip-hop group from Bridgeport, CT.

(3) Canadian supergroup who were gathered by the music talent manager Bruce Allen in 1985 to record the single "Tears Are Not Enough".

(4) A folk and baroque group "Northern Lights", released two CDs: "Northern Lights" and "Vanishing Borders" (founded by Harris Moore and Steve Coulter).

(5) An American progressive bluegrass band founded in 1975 by Taylor Armerding, Dan Marcus, Marty Sachs, and Bob Emery.

(6) The alias of drum & bass duo Steppa & Kitcha.

(7) A British folk group, and side-project of the more well-known celtic folk-rock band Eden's Bridge.

(8) A power metal band from Turkey (Istanbul)

(9) Another name used by Hardcore duo Brisk & Ham. Particularly known for Love of My Life.

(10) A Dutch melodic hardcore band founded in 2015 in Weert. 

== (1) Northern Lights (Canadian supergroup) == 

Like Band Aid (who recorded "Do They Know It's Christmas?" in 1984) and USA for Africa (who recorded "We Are the World" a few weeks later in 1985), proceeds from the song were donated to famine relief in Ethiopia. The Live Aid concert followed on July 13, 1985.

Vocalists who had solo appearances on the track included Gordon Lightfoot, Burton Cummings, Anne Murray, Joni Mitchell, Dan Hill, Neil Young, Bryan Adams, Corey Hart, Bruce Cockburn, Geddy Lee and Mike Reno.

Vocalists who appeared in duos or trios with other vocalists: Liberty Silver, Carroll Baker, Ronnie Hawkins, Murray McLauchlan, Véronique Béliveau, Robert Charlebois, Claude Dubois, Don Gerrard, Salome Bey, Mark Holmes, Lorraine Segato, Lisa Dalbello, Alfie Zappacosta, Paul Hyde and Carole Pope.

Liona Boyd, Tom Cochrane, Tommy Hunter, Kim Mitchell, Oscar Peterson, Paul Shaffer, Jane Siberry, Martha Johnson and Sylvia Tyson participated as instrumentalists or as backing vocalists in the song's chorus.

== (2) Northern Lights (Folk and baroque group) ===
Harris Moore, hammered dulcimer and Steve Coulter, Celtic harp, are Northern Lights - offering a vibrant potpourri of baroque and contemporary music from J.S. Bach's Sleepers Awake to Andreas Vollenweider's Pyramid/In The Wood/In The Bright Light. Joined by members of the ensemble Orison, they blend the sound of cello, oboe, flute, guitar and more into their flowing arrangements and unique style. Lots of O'Carolyn (Ramble to Cashel*, Squire Wood's Lamentation, Carolan's Draught and Carolyn's Receipt) is interspersed with traditional Breton and Scottish airs.
Here's a companion album to Northern Lights, one of Gourd's first and most perennially popular titles. Harris Moore and Steve Coulter's hammered dulcimer/harp arrangements draw freely from an enticing array of traditions and influences: the rich Celtic heritage of O'Carolan and the ancient bards, the Baroque delights of J.S. Bach and Henry Purcell, and the glory of American folk and gospel music - along with beguiling new original compositions. Featuring Scarborough Fair, Midnight on the Water, Two Sisters, Day of Grace, Eleanor Plunkett, Sheep Under the Snow, Hewlett, Princess Royal, and more; with guest artists Shelley and Barry Phillips, William Coulter and others.

== (10) Northern Lights (Dutch Melodic Hardcore band) ==
Hailing from the small town Weert, The Netherlands, melodic hardcore band Northern Lights deliver a blend of catchy riffs, heavy hitting breakdowns, and hardcore's emotional tension.
The band was formed in the summer of 2015. In February 2020, Northern Lights released their EP, Consolidate, which symbolizes the band's perseverance and profound friendship.

Martijn Peters (Drums)
Len Corstjens (Guitar)
Wayne Naus (Guitar)
Rens Knapen (Bass)
Alex Cavkuloski (Vocals) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Northern+Lights">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.