There is more than one artist named Nosferatu:

1) an English Gothic rock band
2) a German krautrock band
3) a heavy metal band from Brazil
4) a death metal band from Sweden
5) an alias to Hardcore Techno producer Erwin van Kan.
6) a hardcore band from the US

1) Nosferatu is an English Gothic rock band formed in March 1988 by Damien DeVille, Vlad Janicek, and Sapphire Aurora. They are one of the most successful second wave Gothic rock groups in the world. Their albums, singles, and DVD have sold over 100,000 copies world-wide. They have also sold hundreds of thousands of songs on various compilation albums since their first commercial release in the early 1990s.

Nosferatu have the credibility and good fortune of being one of the few UK-based Gothic rock bands to receive chart success both in the UK and Germany. Their back catalog of independent releases, to date, stands at 8 singles, 11 albums, 1 DVD and songs featured on 48 compilation albums. Nosferatu have a repertoire of over 100 songs and have performed over 300 concerts in 14 countries: Austria, Belgium, England, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Republic Of Ireland, Scotland, Spain, and Wales.

The current lineup of the band is Louis DeWray (Voice), Damien DeVille (guitar), Belle Star (drums) & Stefan Diablo (bass).

Damien DeVille is the only member to have been in the band all through its 23 year history. He has written a book on NOSFERATU titled "Vampyres Cry - The History Of A Gothic Rock Band", which is due to be published in late 2011.

2) Nosferatu, formed in 1968, was a German krautrock band. They released a self-titled album in 1970 and disbanded the year after. 

3) Nosferatu is a heavy metal band from Campinas, Brazil. They've been active since 1999 and have one full-length released. Their most recent record is a split with Norwegian cult thrashers Deathhammer.

4) There was also a death metal band from Sweden called Nosferatu. They released only two demos in 1990., called "REH 90.03.06" and "Decadence Remains".

5) A project name which Patrick van Kerckhoven came up with for an early release on Ruffneck Records together with Fred Henderson.  Nosferatu is also an alias to a Hardcore Techno producer. The alias was later used as a project name by Van Kerckhoven and Erwin van Kan. The latter is now the solo user of the moniker. Because Van Kan has produced the bulk of the Nosferatu material.

6) A hardcore band from Austin, Texas. They have an EP on Lumpy Records, and an album on La Vida Es Un Mus/Media Disease, as well as a bunch of tapes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nosferatu">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.