Last.fm users listen to two different bands with the name Nostoc, one from Indonesia, and one from Belgium.

 1. Nostoc started from jam session between three friends in Junior High School, they are Dhika, Prima, and Josie that played punk rock music at the time around 2002. The three of them often played in small-scale school gigs that sound still really considered to be bad. Together with passing of time they began to recruit their junior in school, Rino as a bass player because they wanted to play music that more difficult from before but still in the line of punk rock.

The increase in the personnel motivated them to go more advanced, and finally they could perform in the Century Hotel in the Senayan area at the time of the New Year 2003 to 2004. After their success performing there, they want to be more advanced to the end they tried something that just new that is playing hardcore music.

Music hardcore possibly unfamiliar on their ears at the time, but because of the hope to play music hardcore, finally the four of them tried to play the songs from one of the hardcore band called Hopesfall. Just because songs from Hopesfall needed shouting vocals or were also mentioned as screaming, Dhika learned to scream in order to be able to sing these songs perfectly. Because of the limitations of the ability, finally they put Bima as the second guitarist, and thus born a band named Nostoc, which is name was taken from the biology book at the time Prima was preparing for the following biology test.

With their belief on hardcore music, finally Nostoc tried to carry out auditions in various places, but bitterly they failed in these auditions. The failure was no matter for them as they continued and never gave up.

Finally at the end of 2004, the luck was on their side. They succeeded in the audition for Goodfest, that is an annual gig that was held by the indie musical community especially in hardcore music, named Goodguyz.

After performing in Goodfest, their name has begun to be heard from mouth to mouth, and finally they had many offers to perform in various gigs. with passing of time, finally the band has been heard everywhere especially in Jakarta.

Finally they succeeded in creating their first song, Demise Of Humanity. After Demise Of Humanity was created, they were still continuing to work and create several other songs that be entitled, The White Embrace, Schizophrenia, and many more.

In broad outline Nostoc music is hardcore with very aggressive and touched melodies as they increased some elements from indie pop and alternative like singing vocals on several parts. screaming/shouting vocals and beat that is fast made Nostoc still continue to stand in the Hardcore line and they played Hardcore music the way they play it.

Song List:

Demise of humanity
The White Embrace
Schizophrenia
1965: identity
Behavior On Ages
...more songs soon to come

CONTACTS

if you like our songs and want us to play in your show, you can contact:

*Dika - 081513028614
*Tante Sandra - 085695858686, 0817868808
*Tessa - 087884600245, 08568993388
*email us at: nostocband@yahoo.com

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Nostoc was a band formed in 1994 by brothers Bart Reekmans and Stan Reekmans, who spent their youth in Alken, Belgium. In 1997, Nostoc was the winner of the Limbomania rock contest (watch video). It had a varying line-up for several years.  In 2002, the year Nostoc recorded Too Big For His Boots, the Reekmans brothers were accompanied by Carlo Nardozza, Tom van Acker and Pol Meunier. The brass, especially the trumpet, give the ballads a latin sound, the piano a jazzy one, while the percussionist assures a gipsy rhythm. Critics compared Nostoc to Nick Cave, Tom Waits and Calexico.

Nostoc supported artists like Los Lobos, Manu Chao and Soulwax and the band attended several festivals in Belgium and the Netherlands, among which Pukkelpop in 2005. In the same year the Reekmans brothers were part of the music section in Orfee, a theater production based on the Orpheus myth by Theater Froe Froe, in Antwerp (which was put on again in 2007). For a short time, a second album was announced on www.nostoc.be, but the site got down. Some of their accompanying musicians found a way in the Belgian and Dutch jazz scenes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nostoc">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.