"This is an album that has been built on themes of personal discovery, an album that has been inspired by Dream Theater, Pain of Salvation, Spock’s Beard, Pink Floyd and Genesis, an album that should be heard and an album which for me is absolutely stunning." 
- John O'Boyle, DPRP: CD & DVD Reviews (Jul 06, 2011) 

"What we have here is rather healthy mix of energetic full-bodied proper prog rock. . . Big fat chunks of meaty prog that does everything you want it to . . ." 
- The Organ, The Organ (Jul 18, 2011) 

"From top to bottom, this collection of songs is an amazing sampling of everything that is great about prog rock, and it is prog rock, even if Craig has a voice for metal that I would kill for. " 
- Jay R. White, Music for a Mid-Life Geek (May 31, 2011) 

Inspired by the likes of Dream Theater, Genesis, Spock’s Beard, and Pink Floyd, Not Otherwise Specified (NOS) delivers their own style of progressive rock with a modern aggressive punch.  

NOS released its debut album Judgment on May 30th 2011.  This album combines themes of observation and personal discovery with a heavy guitar riffs, melodic vocals, and emotional guitar and keyboard solos.  While initially meant to be a rock album, the songs kept coming out prog. He decided to stop trying to fight this pull and allowed himself to be pulled into the progressive rock sound.
Not Otherwise Specified began in December of 2008 when founding (and currently only) member Craig Kerley decided to return to his music roots. After a 15 year hiatus, Craig decided it was time to stop neglecting his love of writing and performing progressive rock and began work on NOS's debut album.

Craig is currently in the studio working on his second full length album, "Happy Accidents", which is expected to be released in mid to late 2012 (just before the end of the world).  
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Not+Otherwise+Specified">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.