Purveyors of what they call "weird punk," Nots are a Memphis, Tennessee combo who lay out fast, simple, aggressive tunes fortified with jagged guitar runs, atonal electronics, and disorienting layers of reverb. Beginning as a lo-fi two-piece in 2011, the band soon gained the endorsement of Memphis blues-punk label Goner Records, and expanded to a powerful noise-making quartet with their first album in 2014. Their approach became more concise with 2019's 3, which was both Nots' third album and their first as a trio, though the music was no less aggressive or muscular as a result.
Nots were formed in 2011 by guitarist Natalie Hoffmann and drummer Charlotte Watson; Hoffmann initially served double duty with Nots and Ex-Cult before making Nots her main musical commitment, while Watson was a veteran of the Manatees. Hoffmann and Watson originally played out as a two-piece, but soon expanded to a trio with the addition of bassist Madison Farmer, whose résumé included stints with Chain & the Gang and Toxie. Nots released their debut 7" single, "Dust Red," on Memphis' celebrated garage-centric indie label Goner Records in October 2013. A bit more than a year later, Nots dropped their first full-length album, We Are Nots; by this time, the band had grown into a quartet, with Alexandra Eastburn on keyboards. In 2016, Nots delivered their second full-length album, Cosmetic; the LP introduced a new Nots lineup, with new bassist Meredith Lones replacing Madison Farmer.

2017 saw a steady stream of releases from Nots, including four singles (one recorded live at Third Man Records) and a limited-edition LP, Live at Third Man Records. That year they also launched their first tour of Australia, and in 2018, the band played the Burger Boogaloo Festival in Oakland, California. After the departure of Alexandra Eastburn, Nots moved forward as a trio, and 2019's 3 found the band sounding leaner but no less powerful.

Biography by Mark Deming <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.