Nova Art has been formed by composer and vocalist Andrey 'Nova' to perform modern intellectual heavy music inspired by art-rock, heavy and progressive metal, with elements of alternative and nu-metal.

Nova Art started out in 2000 in Moscow, Russia, when the first song "Freedom of a Closed Space" has been recorded. This song appears on "CORONACH II-Tunes of Dusk" compilation, released in 2002 by Coronach Records.

In February 2003 Nova Art played at InProg'2003 - annual progressive music fest in Moscow.

For the first time after total line-up change in 2003-2004, Nova Art participated in festival dedicated to 25th anniversary of Moscow Rock College in June 2004. The line-up was:
Andrey Nova - vocals, keyboards
Kostya Ganulich - bass
Oleg Izotov - guitars
Dmitriy Selipanov - drums, keyboards

In August 2004 the band finished recording a self-produced promo-record titled "The Art of Nova", consisted only of few tracks. This record gained a very good feedback from reviews in magazines and ordinary listeners.

On the 14th of November, 2004, Nova Art's song "Freedom of a Closed Space" (re-recorded in 2004) appeared in "Planet Prog" radio show, broadcasted in Milwaukee, WI, USA and over the internet.

In the beginning of 2005 the band decided to release "The Art of Nova" officially as the album. Some tracks were added, some remixed, and the whole album was finally mastered at "Apocrif" studio. Unfortunatelly, Oleg Izotov and Dmitriy Selipanov left the band due to pressing engagements in another projects and studies. Stas Kulikov (drums, ex-Nordream) joined. Then, few guitar and keyboard players has been changed.

On the 7th of October, 2005, Nova Art's debut album "The Art of Nova" was released by Valiant Music Productions. To support the release of debut album, Nova Art has organized a mini-tour in October 2005. The band has played several gigs in Russian cities of Moscow, Ryazan' and Odintsovo along with Forgive-Me-Not, Ens Cogitans, Everlost and others.

In 2006 the band was invited to play at annual ProgPower festival in the Netherlands, and successfully performed there on the 1st of October, 2006. The performance got good reviews. Nova Art became the first Russian band at ProgPower.

In 2007 the band worked hard on new album, and from January till April 2008 recorded and mixed it at KohleKeller Studio (Germany), DeadSoul Temple studio (Austria), Nova Art studios (Russia), Asta la Vista Records studio (Russia). After quite long label search, only in 2009 contract for album release was signed with My Kingdom Music (Italy) and SOYUZ Music (Russia).

"Follow Yourself" album was released on March 14, 2009 in Russia and CIS by SOYUZ Music. World-wide release is scheduled for May 4, 2009 by My Kingdom Music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nova+Art">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.