Noveller is the solo project of Brooklyn-based sound artist and filmmaker Sarah Lipstate. She has performed in Rhys Chatham’s Guitar Army, and as a member of Glenn Branca’s 100 guitar ensemble. In March 2008, Lipstate joined Brooklyn art-rock outfit Parts & Labor as their guitarist. She contributed to the band's critically-acclaimed release Receivers and completed several U.S. and European tours before leaving the band in July 2009.

Last year, Lipstate performed as part of the Underground at the Abrons performance series at the Abrons Arts Center on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. In December, she played at the Un Son Par Là, Music of Today festival in Nîmes, France. She recently performed in the revival of Rhys Chatham and Karole Armitage's "Drastic-Classicism" as part of the Think Punk! program at The Kitchen in NYC. Following that performance, she joined Rhys Chatham and his cast of guitar-allstars at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for a performance of his minimalist punk classic "Guitar Trio". Along with 199 other guitar players, Lipstate performed in Chatham's "A Crimson Grail" for 200 guitars which debuted at Lincoln Center's Damrosch Park in August 2009.

In April, No Fun Productions released her debut LP Paint on the Shadows. Following the release, Lipstate performed at No Fun Fest at the Music Hall of Williamsburg in Brooklyn. In September, the label released her full-length CD follow-up titled Red Rainbows and Lipstate performed at No Fun Fest Sweden in Stockholm.

Noveller recently accompanied St. Vincent from 2013-2014 in over two dozen dates of St. Vincent's Digital Witness tour.

Her short films screened at the SXSW film festival in both 2006 and 2007, and earned Lipstate the "Diamond in the Rough Cut" award for exceptional emerging filmmaker at Cinematexas 2006. Her short, Memory Scars, screened at the Reel Venus Film Festival at Anthology Film Archives in NYC in October 2008. She debuted a new short film, Interior Variations, at the New Museum in NYC as part of No Fun: Infinite Sound and Image in May.

She has previously performed as a member of Cold Cave, Parts & Labor, One Umbrella and Sands.

Lipstate received a BS in Radio-Television-Film at the University of Texas at Austin in December 2006, and currently resides in the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn, NY, USA. 

www.sarahlipstate.com
www.myspace.com/noveller <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Noveller">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.