1). NOWHERE CLEVELAND, OHIO

"Let's face it, spite is the greatest of all muses. Support and encouragement are nice, but when confidence is forged in the fires of it being said you can't do something, is there really a better creative force? This appears to be the case with most bands from Cleveland, whether it was Pere Ubu in the 70's, Death of Samantha in the 80's, or Prisonshake in the 90's, for whatever reason(s), bands from this Midwest city always seem to play with a chip on their shoulder. It feels and sounds like it's damn near a necessity. With Nowhere's Matthew Rolin, his inspiration like so many before him also seems steeped in spite. Playing every instrument, singing and recording every note, he's taken giant steps while locked away with each new project of his to where any irony of this latest effort 'Invisible World', certainly, is not lost in the mix. Dialed in and deftly adding to the sum of his influences; further building the psych-rock Tower of Babel atop such solid foundations of Syd Barrett and the Paisley Underground's Rain Parade, to even that of some of its newest constructs with Dungen and Tame Impala, Nowhere's third full length album, from beginning to end, strives to be one of the best listens of the year. Just bubbly enough for pop, just driven enough for rock, and just tweaked out enough for psych, about the only problem with this album is that each listen through conjures up dreams of a happy haze kaleidoscope of hot summer days." - Michael James Pultz (Loop Music)




2) NoWhere is an Alternative rock band from Virginia Beach,VA
  In Fall of 2004 released 1st EP All TAPPED OUT- The Demo.  Contained the First version of  Cough Up Blood , which was later re-released on there 2006 Full CD Debut - Counting On Nothing.

3) NO'WHERE Japanese rock band formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2000. Correct tag to NO'WHERE.

Nowhere (now called Hathors) is a alternative rock band from Winterthur Zurich, Switzerland.

In Spring 2008, they released their first EP titled "Messages from the Universe", containing 5 tracks ("Hype It", "Segaboy", "Mobile Terror Love Delusion", "Don in Therapy" and "Stoneration")


4) Nowhere is a Finnish solo project, with material ranging from Ambient & Electronica to Industrial Metal.

5) Also, a fast and energetic finnish punk rock band Nowhere from early 90's shouldn't be forgotten. They recorded two 7"ep's, one mini-cd and four compilation tracks between 1991 and 1993.

6)Features current and ex members of Weekend Nachos & Dead City

7) From the ashes of the Memphis Shoegaze group 'American Gods' rises Chicago's Nowhere. Features current and ex members of Weekend Nachos, Dead City, American Gods, Half-Acre Gunroom, and Harm's Way. Full Length debut is forthcoming in November 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nowhere">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.