There are multiple artists with this name: 1) A Hungarian techno folk band. 2) A French industrial band.  3) A Romanian death metal band. 4) An American rapper. 5) A Lithuanian pop band. 6) A Dutch death metal band. 7) An Irish rapper. 8) A French hardcore techno musician. 9) A Silesian new school hardcore mosh band from Czech republic. 10) A Black metal act from Chile.

1) NOX is a techno folk band from Hungary. The band mixes Hungarian folk music with pop and techno styles, and performances involve folk dancing featuring the front man, ]Tamás Nagy. Szilvia Péter Szabó performs vocals. The band was put on the European radar at Eurovision 2005 in Kiev with their hit "Forogj, világ!" Their songs are generally in Hungarian, but there are some versions in English (for example, "Tüztánc" - "Fire song").

2) Nox was a tribal industrial / post-punk band from Metz, France. The group was founded in 1980 by Gerome Nox, later joined by Cécile Babiole and Arno. Their heavy tribal percussion, hypnotic guitars and war chants linked them between industrial music and noise rock.
Arno left in 1984 and Laurent Perrier joined the group in 1986. In 1989 Laurent Pernice joined Nox and they started to perform as a quarter. In 1990, after the release of the album "Killin' Drive Power", Cécile Babiole and Laurent Pernice left the group. The duo Gerome Nox and Laurent Perrier recorded new material, but Nox disbanded definitely in 1994.

3) Nox  is a death metal band from Constanta, Romania. They are formed by Valentin ''Carcalac'' (vocals, also in Cadavrul), Iulian (Guitars), Dragos "Bassu'' (bass) and Eugen (drums, also in Cadavrul) in 2005. They released "Bleeding To Death" EP in 2007.

4) Nox is a rapper from Philadelphia, USA. Rapper Nox, born René Pichardo, lived in Puerto Rico until 1990, when he came to Philadelphia speaking little English. The rapper did not become bilingual until around 1992. He’s been working with Storch since meeting the producer in 1999. He is currently working on a new album ready for early 2009.

5) Nox is a pop band from Lithuania. Their most famous songs are ‘Laivas’, ‘Elegantiškai sninga’, ‘Vakaras’.

6) Nox is a death metal band from the The Hague, Netherlands. They formed out of the ashes of legendary death metal band Centurian. Members were also at one point involved in various Dutch bands such as Prostitute Disfigurement, Hammerhawk, Severe Torture and Abhorrence.

7) NOX is a rapper from Ireland.

8) NOX is a French hardcore techno artist. 

9) NOX is a Silesian new school hardcore mosh band from Czech Republic.

10) Nox is a rapper from New Jersey and member of the "Degenerates" hip-hop collective. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nox">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.