Nuclearhammer has endeavored to refine and perfect its aural strategy. A succession of demos and EP's served as a preface to the bestial emanations featured on its 2009 debut album “Obliteration Ritual” released on Morbid Moon Records via CD/LP and later for the first time on cassette by Von Frost Records. Though it is a superb release in its own right, the debut album and the myriad EPs that followed such as "Frozen Misery" appear, in retrospect, as stepping-stones to the band’s full realization of its own potential, which it has attained on its 2014 release “Serpentine Hermetic Lucifer” released on Nuclear War Now Productions on LP/CD and what most would claim is the bands most potent manifestation to date. The album opens with a sprawling nine-minute track of atmospheric bestiality - the persistent and repetitive nature of which immediately casts a disorienting, hypnotic shroud upon the listener before culminating in a swirling and surreal display of the variegated hues of cataclysmic Luciferian splendor. Filling the interstitial spaces between the band’s hypnotic and opaque deathscapes are otherworldly electronic drone interludes punctuated by convulsive outbursts of Black Death/Grind violence or War Metal if you will. such that the entire album dilates and contracts with cosmic grandeur. The resulting sound evinces an extreme sense of intentionality and control.

Nuclearhammer has had several line-up changes over the years but never losing focus of it's goal in materializing some of the most oppressive, hypnotic and trance-inducing black/death metal forever channeling the primordial void of chaos. It's two main members AX and DH have been the driving force behind the band since 2007. 

The band has played countless shows and festivals over the years starting from 2007 all across Canada and the US such as Cathedral of the Black Goat and Invoking Black Death Fest and for the first time in 2016 playing its first European show at the Nuclear War Now Festival in Berlin, Germany. They have shared the stage numerous times with the likes of Sortilegia, Rites of thy Degringolade, Inquisition, Deiphago, Black Witchery, Nyogthaeblisz, Hellvetron, Demonic Christ, Ptahil, Adversarial, Antediluvian, Satanik Goat Ritual, Crucifier, Bestial Raids, Nexul, Morbosidad, Holocausto, Incantation, Mortuary Drape, Sabbat, Metalucifer, Vomitor, Demoncy, Witchcraft, Demonomancy, Doombringer, Antichrist, Varathron, Zemial, Death Yell, Nunslaughter, Into Oblivion, Genocide Beast, Hellfire Deathcult and Nigrummagia to name a few. The band is currently working on new material for a 3-way split LP with fellow heavy weights Nyogthaeblisz and Tetragrammacide, also a new full-length album entitled "Xaos Void" is in the works. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nuclearhammer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.