The german Thrash Metal band Nuclear Warfare, founded at the end of the year 2001, is inspired by the 80′s metal scene especially bands like Kreator, Sodom, Destruction and Slayer. During their four years of experience, Nuclear Warfare found their own typical sound of Thrash Metal. Since the beginning, they are enthusiastic about their songwriting and their lyrics are the bands thoughts and opinions in an aggressive, critical way. Today, Nuclear Warfare are: Fritz ‘Bass+Vokills’ Listl ‘Guitar’ Christian ‘Guitar’ and Miriam ‘Drums’. They pursue their dream of playing non-commercial music and performing Live on a regular basis. After heaps of concerts within Germany they also had the chance to play in Belgium, Holland, Italy and Poland. One of the Bands Highlights was the show together with the old stars ‘Tankard’ at the End of 2003. Nuclear Warfare released their first full length Album War Is Unleashed in September 2004 which received excellent reviews from the press as well as from the Thrash Metal Fans. A year after, they released their first 7′ vinyl single Dosenpfand muss weg!, a song with german lyrics in the tradition of old Tankard songs. In 2006 the band released their second full lenght CD “We Come In Peace”. It contains 11 Tracks of neckbreaking Thrash Metal. Listen to the Song “Thrash Metal Tank” on this site or watch the Live Video to “Under The Banner Of Lies” on Youtube. The latest two releases are the EP “Royal Fortune” which was recorded cos of the 5th anniversary of Nuclear Warfare and the best off CD “Killing Combat” for the Mini-Tour in Russia in End of 2008 + 2009. The new material which we was working on the last time is now recorded. THE RESEASE DAY FOR THE UPCOMMING ALBUM -GOD OF AGGRESSION- IS 26th NOV 2011 - The release Party will take place at Klostergartenlaube Lauffen am Neckar at DEC 18th 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nuclear+Warfare">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.