Nuisance from Minneapolis/St. Paul is a mix of Metal/ crushing Grooves/spitfire vocals/DJ skills.They have performed with many National acts around the Midwest and are a consistant draw at home. They signed with Mach 2.8 Entertainment management, featuring CEO SID Wilson of Slipknot, and also recently released a self produced full length album"Kill the Silence" also have two supporting videos for the singles "Priapism" and "The Message" in rotaion on youtube, all content is made by the members of the band from the audio to the visual. nuisancecrew.com

Members:
 
Vince : Vocals
Tony: Guitar
Shaggs: Bass
Rick: Drums
Switch: Turntables & Samples



Nuisance was a punk band from the late 80s and early 90s. They released two albums on Lookout Records in 91 and 93. They were one of the earlier bands to take punk roots and soak them in folksy country music - which is a big trend these days.

“It’s like being on top of the mountain, and you can reach out and touch the sun. Dusty trucks buzz on the county road down from you. And it’s like the most poignant moment that could ever be. Tell me with your lazy rock’n’roll just what it means, whisper in my ear. Produced by Kevin Army, the CD version features tracks which also appeared on Very Small Records, and Kirbdog Records. Part one in the two LP, too short history of one of our favorite bands.” Confusion Hill review taken from lookout records dot com.

“A broken dream filtered through the darkest Humboldt redwood forests and splayed out across a million miles of burning highway that sings you to sleep with intoxicating riffs and nicotine mumblings. These grooves cut the deepest. Engineered by Andy Ernst, Sunny Side Down reflects the sonic influence of Nirvana and Jawbreaker, and the literary and lyrical influence of Henry Miller. So good, Pat got their named tattooed on his leg.” Sunny Side Down review taken from the same website.

Nuisance was:
- Kyle Henner: Bass
- Andrew Asp Vocals
- Jesse Wickman: Drums

EDIT: Just an FYI, the photos shown here and the video below DO NOT depict the band described in this BIO.  The punk band Nuisance was never, ever associated with metal, nu-metal, rap-metal, or anything of the sort.  They are far better than that. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nuisance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.