Finally assigned a name in 2004, Null Dynamo is the brainchild of Pan Ziege (more often just PZ) and existed previously as a solo project.

As of September 2007, following the release of debut album "Hadean Eon", master batterer Clayton "TC" Gore (of Harkonin/Eulogy fame) will effectively double the population of the seething void and provide drums for all future Null Dynamo material (of which there is plenty).

Null Dynamo blends various flavors of Black, Thrash, Death, and Heavy Metal into a vitriolic stew of violent musical mood swings. ND attempts to attain an atmosphere of clarity and force by avoiding the traps of rampant downtuning and unrestrained tempos to create a sonic environment that is best described as 'deathened black metal'.

Thematically, ND covers subjects ranging from the microcosmic to the macrocosmic, from the human brain-stem to the last gasp of a dying universe. ND is staunchly anti-religion, anti-political, and anti-collectivist. Alternating between awe at raw human potential and scornful disgust at its waste, this revolving-door misanthropy provides endless impetus for creative expression.

6 billion heartbeats are enough to give anyone a headache. The Null Dynamo is the ultimate aspirin, not just for humanity, but for existence at large.

"The Null Dynamo", as a concept, is an imaginary machine created to undo the universe. Powered by a supermassive black hole, it endlessly devours matter and energy, ultimately consuming all that exists (or ever would have existed).

Nothing is something, Zero is a number, Black is the unity of all wavelengths. and Destroying the world is just as noble an enterprise as saving it. But as far as the Null Dynamo is concerned, everything must go.

Pax Nihil,
PZ - Sept. 2007

"Obliterate the line between destruction and creation.
A Voice in the Void,
Where form melts and
shape crumbles, we'll swim,
swirling like eels on the currents." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Null+Dynamo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.