1. Swedish stoner group. http://www.last.fm/music/NumbahTen

2. Numbah Ten was a finnish hard rock/heavy metal/grunge group during 1993 - 1997, from the town of Vaasa, Finland. Band members were Patrik Norrgård (vocals), Benny Fors (guitar), Jocke Kulju (guitar), Björn Backman (bass) & Jesse Nissinen (drums). This also was the only line-up throughout the group's existence.

Benny Fors and Patrik Norrgård were previously known from other local hard rock outfits. Their previous outfit--Hollis Brown--only existed for three years and released two singles before disbanding in 1991. Before they disbanded they made quite a few local headlines, even collaborating with finnish rock scene mainstay Dave Lindholm. Norrgård and Jocke Kulju had also previously played together, in hard rock outfit Felix.

Their first release by Numbah Ten was an eponymous CD EP published by local record label Black Cat Records. This EP contained the song named "Emily" which became a minor hit, both locally and nationally. Due to this the band got quite a lot of publicity. They performed on national TV and participated in a television program discussing the problems inherent in--and about--unsuccessful finnish music abroad.

In 1996 Numbah Ten released their one and only album; "Undone". The album was mixed by swedish metal/grunge wizard Roberto Laghi. Perhaps surprisingly "Emily" could be found as a hidden track on the album. The band essentially ceased to exist in 1997, but was finally silently buried in 1998. Their last web presence was in 1999-2000, when the band's website was finally taken down. Today the band has no internet extension at all.

After the bands demise at least Jocke Kulju has continued doing music. Among other things he has worked together with the singer of the band Klamydia, Vesku Jokinen. The latest project Kulju's been involved in was Place 2 Go. Jesse Nissinen and Björn Backman have also continued making music with their slapstick outfit 1G3B. The other members have abandoned the music business. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Numbah+Ten">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.