This explosive trio of female R&B singers came straight from the west coast(California, correct me if I'm wrong) in 1994 blowing up the scene with "Down for Whateva." This was a song that was off the "It's a Low Down Dirty Shame" soundtrack. This movie starred Keenan Ivory Wayans and Jada Pinkett(at the the time it wasn't Smith yet). With crazed and sexually poised lyrics, these girls were not scared to put themselves at the same level as Males were as "Dogs." But these weren't no ordinary dogs, they were "female dogs." (straight from the lyrics in froggy style). They didn't seem to mind to show off their sexuality in the early-mid 90's. Even Notorious B.I.G. makes a reference to this movie in "One More Chance." "Low Down dirty even, like his brother Keenan." These girls were way ahead of their time. The nice thing about them is that they were not sloppy about things. Often mentioning and making references to condoms, they kept things on the safe side while having fun with 2 of their best songs, "Down for Whateva, 1994." Then later in 1995 right before releasing their first album, came out "Froggy Style." In this hit, they keep it real, they stay on track, and let people know that their not afraid to unleash the dog out of them." The album did not succeed that well. I don't believe it hit platinum, but may have hit gold. They didn't sell as predicted. It's sad to see such talented females fall off. Bad management? Perhaps. Bad timing? Jun/Jul 1995. I don't think so. It made for a fun summer album. Plus it included the year's before smash hit "Down for Whateva." 
                                                                                                                        -Janusz Surowka
                                                                                                      januszsurowka@yahoo.com
                                                                                                       Hartford, CT.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nuttin%27+Nyce">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.