Transleted by http://www.translate.ru/ from http://www.lastfm.ru/music/nycticorax/+wiki .
 «Философский метал, с размышлениями о смысле существования. Подобный стихии, уничтожающей человечество как чума.»
«Philosophical metal with reflections about ideas and the meaning of life. A sense of life which looks like a storm that destroys humanity as the Black Death.»   

Group Nycticorax has appeared on April, 17th, 2003, in the city of Riga (Latvia). Style of music - Black Мetal (raw Black Metal), but the leader and group Lodbrok founder names style of group as The Black Death Мetal (the explanatory - look in heading).
The fragment from group interview metal-portal the given mustdie.ru  in 2007:

 "B: Tell about your group NYCTICORAX yet very known here in Russia? 

Lodbrok: All has begun in 1997. After participation in several "basement" projects, I have wanted to create the group, and after long failures with search of structure to me, at last, it was possible to find adherents, and in 2000 there was group "NIGHTWING". Has passed as early as two years, but all material which has accumulated in this time in my head, it was possible to realise. And I began to reflect on the second project so has appeared “one man band”: «NYCTICORAX» and the first дэмо in English. It was very weak record, but it differed that I did in «NIGHTWING». Then my basic group began to vary, structure changes, star fever of some participants, creative pauses during which time I have fully completed structure "NYCTICORAX" began to appear. (And at once has decided to go on more difficult way of development, i.e. Not clear name, a crude sound, the Russian-speaking lyrics upon which sense it is desirable to ponder.)" 

Initial structure of group:
Lodbrok - a vocal, a guitar
Ashath - a bass   
Midgard - shock
The group began переодически to act in the Baltic States. In the end of 2003 the demo “Nosferatu” (a release exit - winter of 2004) has been written down and a bit later, in 2004 the group lets out the debut album:Umbra Mortis  the Album had a quite good response in Europe, was написанно some tens review in different threw-vebzinah worldwide. 15\08\2004 the group has acted on a warming up at the Polish groups Neolith and Devilyn, in Riga.
In the beginning of 2005 because of the conflict with Lodbrok'ом from group has been thrown out Ashath. Replacement have found quickly, old acquaintance Lodbrok'а on performances for group Nightwing - Voltz became the new bass guitarist. In June, in group was the second guitarist - Morok is taken.
Group alternating cast:
Lodbrok - a vocal, a guitar
Morok - a guitar
Voltz - a bass
Midgard - shock  
In August the group has acted on a warming up at Finns "Turisas" then has gone to studio. In the end of November, 2005 the second album has been written down: Black raven... Dark night. In June, 2006 the contract on правоиздание an album with a label from Russia has been signed: Musica production. The album had a quite good response to Russia, a popular magazine Dark City has stated an estimation 3\5. 
In April, 2007 has been published by a label "Ancient Beliefs" ремастерингованная and the processed version of an album “Umbra Mortis”, under the name “Umbra Mortis MMVII".
In the beginning of summer the group starts record of the third album: "Anima Tenebrarum", but soon as a part of group there were changes. In July Morok has written down guitar parties for a new album and has left group. In August has left group Midgard. On September, 23rd the group has finished work on record of the third album. In October the group has found the new drummer - Mjolnir.   
The third structure of group:
 Lodbrok - a vocal, a guitar
 Voltz - a bass
 Mjolnir - shock  
The group has continued concert activity. In 2008 group выступaла on one scene with: "Negura Bunget", "Cradle of Filth", "Sinister", "Tyr", etc. In the beginning of 2009 Lodbrok has received a serious trauma of a hand, the group was приглашенна to act at known pagan-festival in Baltic  Kilkim Žaibu . To play instead of Lodbrok'a the guitarist of group  Urskumug - Krauklis has been invited. After festival the group has suspended concert activity. In the end of September, 2009 the label "Ancient Beliefs" had been published the reduced version of an album "Black raven... Dark night", left under the name "Black raven, Dark night MMIX".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nycticorax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.