Nymphea Aurora was a Dutch doom/death metal outfit that originally started as a symphonic darkwave act in 2000. The first demo, My Dark Domain (2002), is reminiscent of this period. The synthesizers are the main instrument on this demo, and it only features guitars in one song. My Dark Domain was released under the band name of Phantasmagoria and was mainly a solo project by André de Heus. 

After this first demo, the music quickly grew to a more Doom/Death Metal style, and André decided to search for musicians to form a band. In 2003 they came together to practice for the first time and started to write new songs. The current band name was adopted as the band members felt it was a better representation of their new sound, and in 2004 they performed live for the first time. They also recorded a rehearsal promo at the end of 2004, simply called Promo 2005. This promo is not for sale and was only used for promotion. 

At the beginning of 2005, Nymphea Aurora entered the studio to record the first demo in their new form. After some changes in the line-up, "Misery…" was finally released in early 2006. Although the production (most notably the drum sound) was criticized by some reviewers, most of the reviews were rather positive. With a new drummer (Andreas) and keyboard player (Thomas), Nymphea Aurora grew musically and started performing live again. At the end of 2006, guitar player Patrick left the band and was replaced by Joyce. Since then, the line-up has remained stable and new songs were written. 

Nymphea Aurora has played a lot of gigs since the release of Misery… and this put them on bills with bands such as Ataraxie, Reverend Bizarre, Rotting Christ, Skyclad, Malevolent Creation, Trail of Tears, Esoteric, The Prophecy, Draconian, Officium Triste, Saturnus, The Gates of Slumber and Mourning Beloveth. 

In summer 2008, things became a bit quiet around Nymphea Aurora, as Joyce became pregnant and the band stopped to perform live. The band did not stop making music however, and in the meantime entered The Imagineering Suite to record a new promo, "Never Comes Silence". This promo was released for free at the beginning of 2010 and would be that band's last - they disbanded in the summer of 2010.

Line up:
André de Heus – Guitars & Vocals
GertJan Ten Brinke – Vocals
Thomas Mathijssen - Synths
Mario van Elst – Bass Guitar
Joyce de Heus-Loeffen – Guitar
Andreas Jongeneel – Drums 


(source: http://www.nymphea-aurora.com/ ) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Nymphea+Aurora">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.