O.S.S.Y was formed in 1984 in Liperi, Finland.
Band is called as Tiger Shark outside of Finland instead of name O.S.S.Y . The 8th studioalbum A.D. 2010 was released in the 19th of May 2010. Previous was Muurit kaatuu in 2009. O.S.S.Y works again with Propaganda Records like in the beginning. 

More than 15 years after they were named the"Best New Group" in the influential Finnish music publications, Tiger Shark's following and influence continue unabated. Founding members Tero Eronen was voted among the top 10 guitarist of Finland. The story of Tiger Shark began in July of 1984, when Tero Eronen and Tero Kemiläinen met Timo Surakka.

The new trio called themselves the O.S.S.Y, after the OZZY OSBOURNE's Bark at the Moon Lp. Soon afterward, the trio changed their name to Tiger Shark (using it outside Finland avoid to mix them OZZY) and started write songs in english too. They didn't have much luck initially, and were on the verge of disbanding when they were booked into the Giants of the Rock Festival in Hämeenlinna, opening for former Rainbow vocalist Ronnie James Dio. The Gig was successful although band got only 25 min playing time.

In 1988 guitarist/ songwriter Jake Voutilainen invited Tero to his house in Salt Lake City and offered to help Tero write and record new songs in USA. Result of the four weeks studio session was 6 songs demo "Shark bite". Tero went back to Finland and band started recordings of the first english album instead of finnish what they have used in earlier recordings. Tero send demos to guitar magazines and soon got some response from manager companies. Manager Dan Lynch invited Eronen to L.A october 1989, and offered to help the band to get the recording deal in USA.

Tero Eronen travelled first to Atlanta to see Heavy Metal DJ Nazilla Nahid who had her own radioshow. After two weeks in Atlanta Tero went to L.A. for six months. Without getting recording deal Tero had to get back to Finland.

The group was subject to a variety of influences. Eronen listened to bands from Eric Clapton to the Deep Purple. "Richie Blacmore, Michael Schenker, Eddie van Halen etc. had a profound impact on me as a solo player", Eronen said.

Tero Kemiläinen had also played with a hardrock band, and was influenced by British players such as Glen Hughes. The drummer , Timo Surakka was into more progressive groups and was "hugely impacted" by Led Zeppelin. Kari Lauronen (kbrd) was influenced by The Journey, Foreigner and Boston. From that disparate combination of elements came the distinctive sound of Tiger Shark. The band's following multiplied when they released their second single, "H.E.L.S.I.N.K.I.", in 1986. It contained the song "Helsinki and Se kuuluu elämään", arguably bands masterpiece. 
They had the recording-deal with the worldwidely famous punk-label Propaganda Records. That first single was followed by album Tanssityttö Barbara in 1987.In 1989 the band produced "Tiger Shark I" their first album in english. The Tiger Sharks album sounded very different from its predecessors.

After the Tiger Shark tour, Kari Lauronen and Tero Kemiläinen decided to call it quits. Kari and Tero was replaced by Marko Karhu and Seppo Vihonen and later Marko Hjelt on kbrd. That line-up lasted for three years. Then, Seppo Vihonen and Markku Rouhiainen retired from the music industry. They were replaced on drums by Ari Jeskanen & Tero Sotikov and on guitar Rane Riikonen for the recording of the band's final album, 1996's "Lohikäärmeen aika". It is a collection of bands recordings between 1986-96. Only one song is in english "Gimme your key" .

(from ex- O.S.S.Y homepage http://www.nordicmodels.net/ossy/ (not up anymore) )
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/O.S.S.Y">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.