There are multiple bands/musicians called Obeah. 
1. is a Death Metal band from Nijmegen, the Netherlands. 
2. is a Dubstep producer from Danmark. 

1. Obeah (Nijmegen, the Netherlands)
Obeah is an old school death metal band from Nijmegen, the Netherlands. They have been blasting since the beginning of 2006 and consist of seasoned performers from the local metal scene. Taking the Grooving Mid-Tempo feel of old school bands and combining it with the best bits of the more extreme metal genre. Obeah's songs are marked by a wall of growling guitars, grooving drums, and a skull crushing bass. Obeah is a band that steamrolls everything in their path! Obeah released a 3 song demo in 2009, which received praising reviews from around the Globe. Most reviewers agreed upon one thing in particular: Obeah is a band with a bright future!
_____

Obeah was born when blood brothers Tjeerd and Bjorn Alwicher decided to start a band, where they could put in their love for the heaviest genres of metal. Tjeerd and Bjorn recruited drummer Richard Laumen and Vocalist Harry Maat to build the early incarnation of Obeah. After half a year, they were proud to add Martijn as their new bass player.

Late in 2006, Obeah parted ways with Richard and Harry. They were replaced by Armand on drums and a replacement vocalist to complete the current line up! At the end of 2006, with their new line up, things were moving fast. After just half a year of rehearsing, Obeah hit the stage for the first time supporting Dutch death metal legends Thanatos and blew the venue away with their pumping and grooving death metal. Since that first gig in 2007, Obeah has shared the stage with many (inter)national fellow metal bands such as Benighted, Inhume, Excrementory Grindfuckers, Izegrim and many more!

With the release of a 3 song demo CD, reviews were coming in from around the Globe. MetalBite said: "The guitars seem to be trying to turn your brain into jell-o while the crushing power of the bass lines are taking care of the rest of the body. this is truly what I would call Death Metal." Zware Metalen (NL) said: "Don’t expect annoying fancy moves, but just an aimed kick on open goal." Lords of metal (NL) said: "No pounding grind works, just nice oldschool pumping, with paces you like to bang your head to." Masterful Magazine (PL) said: " These three track display a good sense of dynamics, darkness and hateful riffs." Brutalism said: "This is death metal!" and "A very promising demo with all being well, a great future ahead of ‘em!"

Current line-up:
Tjeerd Alwicher - Lead Guitar & Backing Vocals
Bjorn Alwicher - Rhythm Guitar
Martijn Ophoff - Bass & Backing Vocals
Armand Knibbeler - Drums

+++++++

2. Obeah aka DJ 2000F (Danmark)
Obeah is probably the most important danish dubstep producer and the most important person on the scene.
Since the mid-nineties, he has played an important role on the electronic scene in Copenhagen, and with OHOI! he has thrown unforgettable parties since 2002 with UK Garage, Drum'n'bass and dubstep. 
He is also a part of the Below-crew which has just started arranging dubstep-parties in "Kødbyen".
Last, but not least, he is one of the founders of the Kraken recordcompany which releases dubstep worldwide.

To begin pointing out where and when Obeah has had his tracks out would be too ambitious, but we can just mention, that Mary Anne Hobbs played one of his tracks on BBC recently, just as N-Type recently opened his radioshow with an Obeah-track.

Obeah contributed to the first DDD-mixtape with two tracks: "Copenhagen Massive" and a remix of F.U.K.T's "GO!"
Also on the second DDD-mixtape, Obeah has contributed with two tracks: His Natasja-remix and his The Floor Is Made Of Lava-remix. 

Obeah sometimes also produces under the alias Grand Danois
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obeah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.