Biography 2005

By the cold hole of the godesses dry vagina,OBEISANCE was born in April of1992.
After a couple of line-up changes and our first demo '93 "The Cold Waste",founding god Martin (throat) joined forces with Shuvaka (chainsaws) and recorded the
"Black Baptism of October" demo at the beginning of 1994. At the end of '94 theband was joined by Blackness the Dark One(warhead onslaught), and the Evil Onit (death axe), and the band wentinto a Mexico City studio to record their debut, "Hellbent on Slaughter",
withproduction duties being handled by Daniel Corchado (of Cenotaph/The Chasm fame).This recording was released as a split with Equitant (solo project of Absu guitarist) on Hellfire records. By Febuary of the unholy year of nineteen hundred and ninety six six six, the band started the recording of their first full length, "Infierno Eterno", in The Chasm's Metal Command Studios, again in the
unholy Tenochtitlan: Mexico City. This recording also featured Daniel Corchado at the production reigns. Obeisance came, saw, recorded, mixed (i.e. drunk on Sol beer and Charanda moonshine), and conquered in less than 24 hours. The band then took an unscheduled hiatus due to Martin's commitment to the Texas State
Penal System. The spirit of the band is infinitely diabolic and this setback did not break the unholy will of the band. In 2 days in late December '01 and early January '02 these metal warriors recorded "Lucifer Master"; once again with Daniel Corchado at the production helm in the newly formed Lux Inframundis Studio in Chicago, Ill. This release introduces Kalvator (chainsaws and bass butchery) into the Obeisance horde . Touring support for this release ensued for the next few years. Metal maniacs were slaughtered in Milwaukee, Chicago, and a tour of Mexico as well. In addition, numerous supporting
gigs were played in Juarez, Mexico and Hell Paso. Due to members relocating, Martin was in search of a new lineup. In the spring of '02 metal brother Evil Onit was brought back into the Obeisance fold to play chainsaws. In the fall of 2004, Martin recruited Megiddo the Blood Glutton on war kegs. At this point, Martin also took over the bass duties. Between gigs, new songs were written and in February 2005, the band entered Marching Plague Studios in Hell Paso and recorded demo tracks for the upcoming "Unholy, Unwholesomeand Evil". October '05 brought another line up change, due to personal differences Megiddo Blood Glutton is no longer performing drum duties. But by months end on October 31st D. Krazy was recruited for battery onslaught. Obeisance is "violent, unholy, occult, speed metal"!! We are NOT black metal! Nowadays, keyboards, symphonic sound, female vocals, and sometimes depressive atmospheres have found a common place in black metal. Fuck that and fuck most bands with keyboards and fuck you if you're a fan of that faggot crap style of music! To imagine Obeisance's sound, think of the primitive gods: Sodom, Bathory and Hellhammer - but faster! Our riffs always have the Obeisance guarantee of primitiveness. Where as poser bands calling themselves "retro thrash" cant write a primitive riff to save their
poser lives, Obeisance can't write a technical riff to save our lives.

obeisance666@hotmail.com

Sources: http://www.sempiternalproductions.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obeisance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.