There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Oberon was an early 1970s progressive / psychedelic / folk rock band Oxfordshire, UK. They recorded a rare privately pressed album titled "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in 1971. Only 150 copies were pressed making it one of the most obscure folk albums of the era. Acorn was a very small local label who also issued the first album by The Yetties. After a reissue in 2005 their album became quite popular between folk rock fans.

2) Oberon is a Norwegian project started in 1994 in Hafrsfjord, Norway by Bard Titlestad. During the years he released melancholic and atmospheric music influenced by gothic rock, darkwave and neofolk.
Oberon was founded in 1994 as an outlet for the creative vision of Norwegian artist/songwriter Bard Oberon. September that year saw the release of the demo "Through Time and Space", which received glowing reviews from the international underground scene. The demo led to a deal with the Argentina-based label, Regress Records. A self-titled CD was released in 1996. As with his previous release, “Oberon” was met with a very positive response from fans and underground media alike. Organ Magazine (UK) called the album “Progressive dark otherworldness - orchestral, romantic, extremely powerful, painful, dark, lost and recommended”. Soon it reached the ears of Prophecy Productions who offered to reissue it for the European market.
In 1998 Bard released his second CD, Mysteries (named after a novel by one of Norway's most iconic poets, Knut Hamsun), an eclectic and elusive melting together of different influences and styles.
Mysteries was followed by the 7" single Big Brother (2000) and the experimental ambient record, Anthem, in 2001. In many ways Big Brother marked the end of the Oberon era as Bard began to explore other themes and styles, as could be heard on the single’s B-side "The Ecstasy of Youth and Death". On winter solstice that year, Bard began recording his next album, which would be released in 2002 under the new name of Future Whirl. In the years following his Big Brother record, Bard began taking a deep interest in mystical traditions of the East which strongly impacted his song writing. Songs like "Never be the same again", "Dune song" and "The Frozen Isle" dealt with themes of impermanence, the futility of war and the misleading of man into another cycle of self-destruction at the onset of the new Millennium, yet with a renewed sense of hope for the individual who dares to follow his or her own heart in search of the truth.
This was the beginning of a decade where Bard's dedication to his personal journey of discovery, travel, study and practice took the front seat to his musical output. Throughout the decade, however, Bard kept writing new material, as well as occasionally participating as guest musician on other artists' works, such as Albireon's "Mr. Nightbird hates Blueberries".
On Christmas day 2011, Bard began pre production for a new album which he had given the name Dream Awakening ("Who can penetrate the heart with songs of wisdom, who can liberate the soul, with the light of truth. Boundless is the one"). Some months before he had been contacted by Prophecy Productions asking if he would consider resurrecting Oberon. "It was time to come full circle. The new material wasn't simply a continuation of the last record, but a coming together of the entire musical palette I had been working with since the beginning. It goes low and high, but most of all, it's powerful, flowing and moving."
In March 2012 a new partnership was formalized between old companions, and work has now begun on a string of reissues as well as a new albums under the Oberon moniker.

https://www.facebook.com/ageofthemoon
http://oberon-no.bandcamp.com/

3) Oberon is a power/thrash/traditional metal band from St. John's, NL, Canada. They first formed in 1996 and have released a number of demos and EP's. Their music can be heard on their MySpace page at http://www.myspace.com/oberonnl

4) Oberon, aka David Brennan, is part of a 'three man clic' known as 'gunmetalskies'. Formed in 1998, Gun metal skies are known for their trance/trip hop combinations, working with such well known artists as DJ Sasha, Paul Oakenfold and occasionally Thievery Corporation. Heavily influenced by legendary and well known trip hop artists Massive Attack. Website: http://oberonuk.deviantart.com

5) Oberon is a Czech metal band, active between 2002-2005.

6) Oberon is a Georgian metal band, active between 2004-2005.

7) Oberon is a Norwegian act (producer Trammell Starks with Felicia Sorensen on vocals), which makes atmospheric darkwave influenced songs full of sorrow,  with the use of electronic and acoustic instruments, inspired by the Shakespeare's poetry.

8) Oberon is a Greek psytrance producer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Oberon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.