Obscurant is a Finnish band that performs death metal in its more atmospheric and melodic vein. The band came into existence in late 2000 as a solo-project of Luukkainen but after songs really started coming, Obscurant slowly grew into a fulltime band with a full line-up. The line-up was completed with Luukkainen on vocals and lead guitar, Kaakkolahti on guitar, Simonen on keyboards, Honkonen on bass and Järvinen on drums.

Obscurant played live two times in the autumn of the year 2001. Due to the amazing response from the audience, the band decided to contact Woodcut Records to see if they had interest towards this kind of metal act. They did. Obscurant signed the contract that Woodcut offered them and the things got going on full speed.

The recording sessions of Obscurant's debut full-length album took place at Sundi-Coop Studio in the break of March and April 2002. Obscurant spent two weeks recording and mixing the ten actual tracks and a couple of bonus songs. The result was the album that bears the name "Lifeform: Dead".

In late 2003 Honkonen announced that he would quit playing in Obscurant due to various reasons. Besides searching for a new bass-player, Luukkainen kept on composing material for the second full-length album. As things seemed to be going quite smoothly, Obscurant booked some studio time for August 2004 from Sam's Workshop. When the actual recording sessions were at hand, the line-up still lacked a bass-player. Luukkainen decided to take care of the bass himself so that the band could enter the studio as scheduled. After two and a half weeks the second offering titled "First Degree Suicide" was born. The album consists of nine tracks of depressive and atmospheric death metal which will surely leave no-one cold. Or it might do just that.

In Winter 2005 Viljanen joined the band as the official bass-rapist, and Obscurant did gigs around Finland following the release of "First Degree Suicide" -album. In summer 2006, Järvinen & Kaakkolahti announced that they would quit playing in Obscurant. Couple of months later Rautio joined the band to take care of the rhythm guitar.

Then in Spring 2007, a new drummer Pakkanen was found, and his powerful rhythmic beat left band members astounded. Now all the pieces are in their right place and Obscurant is stronger than ever.

http://www.obscurant.info
http://www.myspace.com/obscurantband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obscurant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.