1. Lithuanian grunge band (2006-present)

"We work in the dark - we do what we can - we give what we have. Our doubt is our passion, and our passion is our task. The rest is the madness of art." - Henry James

Genre: SynthGrunge / Alternative Rock 
Members: Aleksas - voc/guitar / Tomas - lead guitar / Martynas - bass guitar ..... 

--------------------------------------------------

2. Japanese shoegaze band (April 2007 - April 2010)

On March 5, 2010, obscure announced in their blog that they are disbanding. They played their last live on April 16, 2010, in which they distributed a limited CD-R.

vocal, guitar - nobara
guitar, mac - zizi makia (ex-Fatima [as 4ge])
bass, mac - cake (ex-Fatima [as Lay])

Discography:
1st single: the fall of finale (2/4/09)
2nd single: nervous decay (10/21/09)

"Cake and Zizi Makia announced that they disband and start to seek own way.
After a year, Cake and Zizi Makia got back together under Cake's vision to start a new band.They have started to compose music and had auditions for a vocalist.
They eventually chose Nobara, an Art college student, as their vocalist from over 100 candidates auditioned.With an addition of Nobara's Fab and attractive voice."
(from obscure's Myspace page)

3.Thrash/Doom Metal from Arvika, Sweden 

--------------------------------------------------

4. Old School Death Metal band from Spain. (1989-Present)

OBSCURE was one of the very first Death Metal bands formed in Spain, at around the years 88/89. The band’s core draws from the germ of a previous band, in wich Enri Sanchis (Drums) Boris Ortiz (Guitar) and Rafa Cortés (Guitar) decide to take a different path and start composing new songs. Vicent Riera will join later as a vocalist, to this first line-up.
At that time they take the name OBSCURE and a few months afterwards they record their first demo, “Disgusting Reality” at the end of ’89. This first edition was made of two songs recorded in a studio and three live tracks. In the studio recording process, they ask Anselmo Roca (singer and guitar in AGGRESSOR) for cooperating in the OBSCURE’S live shows for playing the bass, but since AGGRESSOR split up, Anselmo stays as a permanent bass player.
 A number of worrying events (Boris left the band temporarily replaced by Lenon, the band’s moving to differents rehearsal rooms and labour circumstances of some members…) take OBSCURE to the final break up.
Vicent Riera decides to quit OBSCURE and starts with his own band NADIR, along with Anselmo Roca on the bass. This happened by the year ’95 and supposed the dissolution of the band.
After 10 years, back in the 2005, David García (Drums) Anselmo Roca (Bass) and Vicent Riera (Singer) take the decision to count on Rafa Cortés in order to bring OBSCURE back. José Ochando joins the band on the guitar and the band starts a very difficult stage. Four different drummers in less than three years (David, Enri, Edgar y Sergio), three rehearsal room changes, José had a serious car accident that put him away for a long time…the adverse circumstances didn’t allow the band to make progress.
Xtreem Music gives to OBSCURE the opportunity to release an album with the unpublished tracks plus a compilation of their three demos, but is not possible to carry out this project due to discrepancies between some members. These members were quitting the band between the years 2009 to 2012 and play in other bands.
In 2016 Rafa Cortés together with Enri Sanchis and Anselmo Roca pick the Xtreem Music’s offering back to collect and release all the OBSCURE’S demos on CD.
Eventually, OBSCURE releases “Back to Skull” in 2016 August, wich collects their three demos: “Non Existendi Cultus” (’92), “Curse the Course” (’90) and “Disgusting Reality” (’89) coming with the best possible sound (unmastered, but enhanced) as well as all demo covers, lyrics and many photos & flyers. Nowadays, the recording of the unpublished songs is still in process.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obscure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.