1) Death Metal band from Serbia
2) Rock band from Nevada
3) Death Metal band from Estonia

Biography for the rock band:

In May of 2004, an idea was born. It was an idea fated to renew the senses of people. It was an idea of something new, something fresh, something more than just music. It was the idea that through their art, they could connect to people without ever meeting them face to face. "You learn at an early age to either exercise your imagination, or go insane. There isn't a third option unless you create your own." - Bizz. Finding the middle ground between imagination gone wild, and raw emotion in its purest form, Obscured began to write songs with ethereal melodies, piercing punk rock, and fiery passion. Their live show will leave you in awe.  Not because of lights, cameras, and flashy productions, but because there is fire and passion in the air.  There are bands you go to see, there are bands you go to enjoy, and there are bands that you go to experience. In two short years, they have sold nearly 2,000 copies of their first 5 track E.P., embarked on several tours, and shared stage with such acts as Lacuna Coil, The Dreaming, Godhead, Greyscale, Hemlock, Falling Closer, and many more. They have a deep love and respect for their fans, and anyone who will take a minute to listen to them or their music. This love of their fans has inspired them to nickname their fans, The Circle. Obscured would like to leave this message to The Circle. "Between the four of us, we've been through a lot.  But we aren't here to  accuse life of being unfair.  We are here to let those of you out there who are experiencing death, anger, happiness, despair, envy, love, jealousy, or any of life's trials know, that you are not alone.  We are here simply to make one statement... - "Do not lose hope, look to those who understand for support, and come out stronger than when you went in." - "All are welcome and all are friends." - Obscured. That being said...welcome to The Circle. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obscured">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.