From the haunted shores of Massachusetts, Obsidian Tongue was founded in January 2009 by Brendan James Hayter as a solo project. It transformed into a 2-piece band with the addition of Greg Murphy in November 2009. After 2 demos and about 2 dozen live shows in New England, they self-released their debut album “Volume I: Subradiant Architecture” in May 2012. The album is 50 minutes of cold, organic, melodic Black Metal recorded and mixed entirely analog at Mystic Valley Studio in Medford, Massachusetts. The vintage tape machines perfectly capture the passion of the band’s live performances, and the album has received high praises internationally for its exceptional balance of the melodic and raw aspects of black metal. Just as epic as it is cold, and just as atmospheric as it is oppressive, fans and critics across the world agreed that Volume I is a very promising debut album from this young band.

A year has passed and these 2 men are ready to offer their next collection of Introspective Black Metal Dirges to the metal underground.

In May 2013, Obsidian Tongue returned to Mystic Valley Studios to record their second installment named “A Nest of Ravens in the Throat of Time”. 6 songs averaging 9 minutes in length, the album is a psychedelic and introspective journey through the collective unconscious of Man and the Dark Half of the emotional spectrum; A sonic depiction of the spiritual affirmation and personal evolution attainable only through sorrow, anger and disillusionment. 

“We took a slower and less aggressive, spacey kind of approach with the new album. We wanted to conjure a hypnotic atmosphere that perpetuates through the record, yet we wanted to cover a lot of ground within that atmosphere, conceptually and emotionally. We infused a lot of very personal ideas and feelings into these songs, almost too much to list. It’s almost unnecessary to list…all I can really tell people is, A Nest of Ravens in the Throat of Time is our lifeblood, our mission statement, and really the only thing we give a fuck about right now.”
 -Brendan James Hayter, May 2013 

A noteworthy contribution to this musical odyssey has been made by John Haughm of the legendary dark metal outfit Agalloch, taking lead vocal duties for the album's title track.

Obsidian Tongue has signed with Hypnotic Dirge Records from Canada for the release of “A Nest of Ravens in the Throat of Time”, making it a dual release with the band’s own imprint Dissociation Records.
The album is slated for release in late July of 2013. This will be just in time for their tour with fellow New England Black Metal horde Autolatry, with whom they will be traversing across North America for the entire month of August.  

http://www.hypnoticdirgerecords.com/obsidiantongue.php
https://www.facebook.com/obsidiantongueband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obsidian+Tongue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.