Obsidian Kingdom is a music project formed in 2005 in Barcelona. The band plays hard-to-classify and intense music with plenty of contrasts, and its main features are the use of multiple sound resources in order to portray a wide range of emotions, a deep interest for aesthetics and the mise-en-scène, and the sombre and cryptic quality of their lyrical topics. The band's sound has been characterized as drawing equally on progressive rock, post-metal, black metal, alternative rock and electronica.

The band’s debut, "Mantiis – An agony in fourteen bites" was self-released and sold out by the band in 2012, and later re-released by the French label Season of Mist in 2014. It is a conceptual album featuring a single song divided into fourteen tracks, noted for the coherent exploration of a wide range of styles and genres. With a progressive character and a post-modern approach, its influences can be traced from the melancholy of Akira Yamaoka to the heaviness of Cult of Luna, including the experimental style of Ulver or Pink Floyd sound’s heritage.

One year after the release of their debut, Obsidian Kingdom put out a remix album: "Torn & Burnt - the Mantiis Remixes" (2013). Featuring astounding reworks of seven tracks from "Mantiis", signed by artists as renowned as Oktopus (Dälek), Subheim, Poordream, Necro+Deathmort, Jr Morgue, Drumcorps, Larvae and Mothboy. 

The band's sophomore, "A Year With No Summer" (2016), introduces a whole new approach in sound and vision, calling upon the aura of american alternative rock from the late nineties and merging it with the vibe of the early progressive rock scene from the UK, while presenting a sound that is closer to post-metal and bass electronica. It was produced in London by Jaime Gomez Arellano (Ghost, Primordial) and it features the collaborations of Kristoffer Rygg (Ulver) and Attila Csihar (Sunn O))), Mayhem).

Obsidian Kingdom is currently presenting "A Year With No Summer" live. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obsidian+Kingdom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.