Black metal band from Austria (Vienna).
Discography:
- 2006 - Wildes Blut (demo)
- 2007 - Todnachten
- 2008 - Wolfsherz (limited to 30 copies)
- 2011 - Der letzte weiße Hirsch

Biography:

Obskene Sonare is a Black Metal band from Austria. Only initial member is Akanoth, which carries the exclusive responsibility over the music of Obskene Sonare. The only exception forms its musical fellow combatant a Kroenen at the drums.

The name Akanoth leads itself from the Germanic akan, which feel in for instance with pain or pain is brought borne in connection and translated with these words, and which name attaching - oth off. The name can become on an equal footing from there also with the meaning „the hurt-rising up "and/or „martyrs ". Not least by the mark of the handbooks of the 200 „Wildes Blut "- copies with its own blood symbol-light Akanoth the meaning of its name.
The establishment of Obskene Sonare is indicated as summer 2006. However for a long time numerous musical approaches Akanoths with other musicians took place before the establishment of volume. The level of these Combos handed however due to musical gift lacking as well as discrepancies concerning ideology and goals never beyond a noise chapel and finally dissolved it, still before one a publication behind itself brought - or a note had taken up. Thus Akanoth collected cellar chapel with several Black Metal of volume experience, mostly as a guest musician at the drums or singing, once also briefly at the bass in a Death Metal „noise chapel". Since it over the years already ideas gathered, however in no volumes use for it, completed he was found these, practiced at the guitar and started a new attempt - once more, raw, primitive Black Metal, however this mark on itself alone, freely posed after its musical model Burzum, by which it at that time - beside one by Black Metal of affected arson attack on a chapel in its closer environment, from which he had read in the newspaper - this music and the life attitude for itself, accompanying with it, to discover could. Stylistic affected it Nargaroth's „Herbstleyd "and Wiccan Rede's (late Negura Bunget) demo „From Transilvanian Forests "effectively. These influences are also unite song passages of the "Wildes Blut" demo and the Todnachten- EP to hear.
Still in the autumn 2006 the first photographs in Vienna, which were published later than Wildes Blut demo, took place. Akanoth without strange assistance brought all instruments in. During the photographs it gave a name to the project: Obskene Sonare - from latin into German "disastrous sounds" translates. The name should the music style, symbol light by this dead language, appropriate describes (whereby „C was replaced "into obscene by a "K" around the English discussion to escape). In the logo be emblazoned over the words [Obskene Sonare] a sickle moon, which stands as symbol for dark nights and for cold weather, mystic and darkness. At the 1.November, Samhain, were locked the photographs to game blood. Wildes Blut ("Wild blood" in E.) was the first publication of the freshly created Viennese label division north wolf and on 200 Tapes was limited at that time also at the same time. The occulting celebration of this daily accordingly, marked Akanoth the handbooks of the 200 Tapes with its own blood. Into approximately each tenth copy with one for the imposed ritual used razor-blade as addition provided. Finally Division Nordwolf still published the demo shortly before end of the year 2006, however the production of the Tapes were quitted because of the bad quality (you could often hear overacting errors) and only 25 were accepted on the part of the label. The remaining 175 pieces with a more professional manufacturer were produced. These possess February 2007 contrary to the lack copies a transparent Tapecover and were sold out in a few month. During the work to Wildes Blut he wrote paralell on some music pieces, which did not fit into the concept the demo - these pieces should later together-find on the "Todnachten" MCD.
In the night 20 of April 2007 the music pieces for the new work were finally recorded. The new compositions represented a substantial increase to the songs on Wildes Blut, because they didn't come from ideas, which were going around for many years in Akanoth's head and to the majority unlisted buzzed, out developed. With the new songs the style of Obskene Sonare changed clearly. Akanoth faced play-technical and temporal problems and decided therefore, a new musician (n. Kroenen) to consult for the drums. On Todnachten you could hear mainly two different singing characters. One of it, which had come out on "Wildes Blut" still as Burzum similar screaming, had now more similarity to the Swedish Silencer. Ideologically and the name accordingly, they decided to bring the EP in at the night. The word Todnachten is a derivation from the old German for „nights of death "and/or a sarcastic modification of „Christmas ", in which according to Christian faith the welfare was born. The EP was published on CD by Thule record and limited to 1000 pieces. Beside the three music pieces (exclusive introduction) they are also dedicated to three suicide friends inside from Akanoths circle of acquaintances, who took their life's all together in nights. Originally the EP should appear on Division Nordwolf, in co-operation with Thule Records, but when the EP already was with finished Artwork in production, Division Nordwolf suddenly had no more interest to give the publication financial escort what arranged that Obskene Sonare changed to Thule Records. For this reason the logo of Division Nordwolf is on the back of the CD. A new publication of Todnachten on Vinyl, with bonus material and revised Artwork is planned for Winter 2008.
On 20 April 2008 Obskene Sonare published an CD-r single for its Absurd Cover Wolfsherz. Already in the late autumn 2007 the originally version was recorded for the Sampler „An Underground Tribute to Absurd ". This should appear on the Austrian label Racheschwur Records. However a further mark label-technical problems arose, since Racheschwur Records was compelling due to unprofessional behaviour of the business to step out and the publication of the Samplers with the locking of the label no more topic was.
Thus has been decided at short notice to the publication of a special piece of collecting tank: For short time the single was offered on the Thule- and on the OS- homepage as Pro- CD-r in the printed on Cardsleeve, with Lyrik note, certificate and wood rune, on which a crow bone was bound, limited on 30 pieces. The single was not buyable you could only get it in exchange against something personal with same value was passed on.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Obskene+Sonare">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.