There are two active band using this name, one from Poland, and one from Bulgaria.

(POL)
Black metal.

Discography:
Towards Eternal ChaosFull-length2016 
In Nomine Rex InferniFull-length2018

See metal-archives for more.

(BG)

Occultum Bio

 The idea of Occultum is spawned in the deep void between the stars and born in the cold and heartless winter of 2011 within a deeply disturbed collective of minds summoning the absolute, a group of individuals wearing dark clothes and entertaining darker thoughts. Shapeless as a phantasm, the shadow of what is to come, lurks, seeking manifestation into the material world until it finds the suitable hosts. The initial congregation that channels the dark energy is formed in the month of March of 2012, in Sofia, Bulgaria, consisting of 

• Diabolus – vocal terror, tortured screams
• Kveldulf – guitars, unholy chants and grunts
• Shurale – drums
• Sirlon – guitars and chants
• Boyan Avramov – bass

 Out of primeval chaos and alien sentience and under direction from beyond, arise the first rituals that comprise the early material of the band. Dark baptism of the stillborn hymns occurs during live ceremony in Sofia in September of 2012, as support for the Serbian band Bane. More live depravity follows suit swiftly – in support of well established acts on the local underground scene such as The Revenge Project, Dimholt, Mass Grave, Serpentine Creation, Act of Grotesque, Invidia, etc. After a few line-up changes and a few session bass players handling bass duties, the bass player seat remains empty. The ritual occultists vow to move forwards. The next act of aural suicide that is laid before the bearers of discord in the Grand design is the creation of a record. As the band prepares to enter studio to tape its first demo, a schism amongst the ranks of the monastic cenobites leaves the occult musical order in disarray – exit Shurale and Sirlon, due to musical and philosophical differences. With remaining adepts Diabolus and Kveldulf, the band goes on hiatus. Lying dormant, dead but dreaming the dark force that holds Diabolus and Kveldulf firmly in its grasp grows stronger. They decide to continue their black art and record a demo in offering to the lords of night. Awoken from its slumber by the unearthly whispers of its instruments on the physical plain, the dark occult sentience arises once more, sweeping like a tidal wave across the minds of the human puppets it employs. Kveldulf takes on the songwriting and interpretation of the inner void into music, while Diabolus crafts the lyrical content of the incantations. With the revival of the band, its sound undergoes subtle changes – leaning towards a more aggressive execution, somewhat reminiscent of the death metal stylistic – and the textures shift to bleaker and darker tones. The band records its first full length record with the enlisted help of Dimitar Vasilev and Nikolay Berberov – Bebo. Mixing and mastering is fully handled at Sub Zero studio, by Bebo. The first musical offering by Occultum sees the dark of night on 08.06.2015 under the name “The Book Ov Nameless Rituals” and contains 5 tracks inspired by the emptiness of vacant lots, and a cover in homage to Mayhem. With the recent additions of Jaffar on bass and Varthrag on drums, the summoning circle is now complete and the cult is alive – now more than ever.

The actual line up is:

Diabolus - vocal crimes and lyrical curses
Kveld Ulf - guitar massacre and clean vox Devil worship
Varthrag - ritual drum marches 
Jaffar - bass terrorism  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Occultum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.