(For the German experimental metal band, see The Ocean.)

There is more than one artist under this name:

1. Ocean is a contemporary funeral doom/sludge quartet hailing from Portland, Maine. They recently released their second album, Pantheon of the Lesser, on Important Records.

2. Ocean is a singer, producer and songwriter whose eclectic pop music spans from entrancing Trance to danceable funk/rap/hiphop. Her debut album, Mermaid Music, released by Ocean Rhythm Records. Her second album, and exotic trance exploration in dance music, is due for release in May, 2012.

3. Oceán is a Czech synthpop band, very popular in the late 80s and early 90s.

4. océan was a French jazz project from the 90s that released the album Au pied, la mer ! in 1998.

5. Ocean was a folk-rock formation in Switzerland around Henri Huber. The band was founded in the early 70s in Bern and performed until the late 80s, releasing several albums.

6. Ocean is a Polish rock band from the city of Wroclaw that became quite popular after releasing their third album, Niecierpliwy dostaje mniej, in early 2006.

7. Ocean was a rock band formed in 1970 in London, Ontario, Canada. Best known for their huge gospel themed hit "Put your hand in the hand" they actually almost turned the song down fearing they might be labelled a gospel band. Ironically that was just what happened. They released two albums, Put Your Hand in the Hand and Give Tomorrow's Children One More Chance.

8. Océan was a French hard rock/prog/heavy metal band from the 70s and 80s.

9. ocean is a Japanese singer and songwriter who collaborated with AKIRA YAMAOKA on several songs from his solo album iFUTURELIST.

10. OCEAN is the alias of Dan Ocean, who produces witch house/drag. He also produces under the name BL/\CK C3ILING.

11. Ocean is Kalle Mansikkaniemi, a musician and video game music remixer from the OverClocked ReMix community. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ocean">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.