2007 
In the begining, Berstuk (Erick Holter) formed October Flame as a solo project but later was joined by Justin Yglesias on bass. However Justin didnt stick around for long enough to appear on any recordings. Soon Svarog (Austin Spitler) joined the band on Acoustic Guitar/FX. Once the band was complete, they wasted no time when it came to writing songs. Before they knew it, 4 songs were recorded over a period of 2 weeks, and turned into what is now the "Remember the Fallen" demo. This demo showcased the band in its infant stages. Throughout the whole demo, you get 20 minutes of guitar and keyboard based ambient/acoustic music. It was released in early November of 2007.

Influences in this era included Borknagar, Dornenreich, and Ulver's acoustic albums as well as being inspired by Dream Theater and Pink Floyd.

2008 

After the release of "Remember the Fallen", October Flame wasnt really sure what was gonna happen next. Some new songs were being composed that were somewhat in the same direction as the previous release, but they never saw the light of day. 

soon the discussion began to change the direction of the band. Berstuk had wanted to do a black metal band, but wasnt sure about yet about having October Flame go in that direction, but rather maybe start a seperate project. But soon it was decided to take October Flame in a more Black Metal direction.

In early March 2008, the band began to write for its very first Full-Length album. A pre-production version of the albums title track was recorded, but never released. After that  it was full force on recording for the next several months until it came to a close in the middle of the summer, and then released. This new direction saw the band playing raw black metal with the use of a drum machine and even corpsepaint was used for the band briefly. 

2009 

2009 wasnt a very productive year for October Flame. Not alot really went down. Originally, the band had plans to begin recording a 2nd Full-Length in April, but that never came to pass. Members were getting busy with other bands and projects. Recording equiptment on the frits as well as Berstuk's diminished interest in the band. The two had been going down different musical directions for awhile at this point. A 2nd full-length had been anticipated for a long time, but never came to pass. 

2010 

Most of 2010 for October Flame was more of the same that had been going on in 2009. No recording. No ideas. No action. Nothing. Until August when founding member, Berstuk was offered a scholarship to go to Sterling University in Kansas. He officially left the band after that after being a big important part of the band since its inception.

This left Svarog as the only original member of the band. Having been heavily inspired by ambient black metal and atmospheric depressive black metal, shortly after the release of "Embrace the Nightsky" the music began to reflect that. There were 3 songs that Svarog had been sitting on for over 2 years. These songs were originally supposed to appear on the 2nd Full-Length, but ended up being saved for an upcoming split with Morgh from PA. Svarog was to play all instruments and continue October Flame as a one-man project. However, soon after in early September, 2010, Svarog was joined by drummer Mourning Soul, Bassist Jason Scarborough, and guitarist Jinrith. The songs that were for the split got re-written with the new members. The addition of new members and newer influences changed the music drastically into a more Doom-laden depressive Black Metal. The results remain to be seen as the world awaits the new split release from October Flame, said to be released sometime in midwinter. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/October+Flame">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.