Odd Crew are groove/southern metal band, formed by long-time friends Vassil Raykov (Vocals), Vassil Parvanovski  (Guitar), Martin Stoyanov (Bass) and Boyan ”Bonzy” Georgiev (Drums) in Sofia, Bulgaria. The band was formed in 1998, when all of the members were 12 years old, except for Bonzy, who was only 8. Following a longtime musical career, the four of them recorded 3 albums under the name of  "Kaskadiori" , with each album marking a definitive change in style from the blues-orientated hard rock of the first to the more heavy/sludge metal sound, explored in the most recent recordings.This continous change came to its culmination with their fourth album - the self-produced "We Are What We Are". Thus, a change of the band's name was required - all of the songs were now written in English and so the name was changed to "ODD CREW". Their music is influenced by rock and metal legends like Pantera, Black Sabbath, Down and Crowbar.The band has a deep respect for their fans (who are maybe the only thing which they rely on, besides on each other) and the music they play is exactly for the fans, and not for commercial purposes. Not looking for success on the "big scene", the band stays true and in support of the  Bulgarian underground. This only shows their dedication to making qualified heavy music. Among many of the highlights in their fourth album are: the song " We All Die" (dedicated to one of the best Bulgarian drummers - Petar Slavov /1941-2008/ ), the power-ballad "I Ain't Losing Myself" and the fast-paced energizers "Monkey Pride" & "Piller Confusion". The promotion of the album is released not only in the capital but is also supported by a tour, set to satisfy all the fans from the rest of Bulgaria. In the summer of 2010 the band entered the studio for the records of their second album as Odd Crew - "A Bottle Of Friends". The album is a lot faster and heavier than anything else made to this moment by the band. The first single "We Won't Betray Ourselves" enjoyed very good receptions among the fans and topped the Bulgarian chart Z-Rock Top 40. On 22nd and 24th of October 2010 was the two shows for presenting the new album. Both of them was sold-out and was in one of the biggest rock clubs in Sofia. Till the end of the year the band will have a country-wide tour in support of the new record. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Odd+Crew">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.