Currently there are few bands/artists share the name Odd:
1) Norwegian singer/songwriter, born on Feb 5 1972;
2) Filipino post-rock band from Dumaguete http://wellthisisodd.bandcamp.com/.


1) Norwegian singer/songwriter
From the Official Odd Website:
"My name is Odd.

I was born on february 5th 1972 in a place called Årdal in Norway.  I was always going to do music.  Age four I stole the show at my cousin's christening by walking up and down the isles singing at the top of my lungs until all eyes were on me.  Or so I'm told...

Started writing songs in my early teens and soon realized this was how I was going to express myself.  It all came together in music.  After years of writing and playing in various bands I was "discovered" by EMI in Norway while taking part in a talent-show on TV.  I was signed to them for a number of years during which I got to travel a bit, and write songs with several wonderful songwriters.  My favourite being Graham Gouldman, I have to say.  Just because music seemed to just flow through him, and all he had to do to make great music was just tune in.  Astounding talent and a great guy to boot.

"Mind your head", my debut album, got good reviews and was nominated for the Norwegian "Grammy" awards. The first single from the album did well in Norway, and a later track was made into exit-music for an award-winning movie that year.  But most importantly I got lots of feedback from people for whom the songs had meant something.

The album didn't sell enough to warrant a second album at EMI, but by chance I was fortunate enough to make contact with a smaller label in 2004.  C+C Records(N) declared an interest in me and my music, as opposed to my sales figures.  They allowed me the space and security to make "Not all birds fly with ease", my latest release.  The album I just had to make.  Made with no regards to anyone but me.  With the aid of some wonderful people who happen to be great musicians as well.

I am married to the best girl in the world! We have two beautiful daughters named Embla and Aurora. My girl is called Frid.

I am Odd."

2) Filipino post-rock band from Dumaguete
From the band’s BandCamp page:
"Odd is a Filipino post-rock band with melodic, experimental, and minimalist elements. 

Since its inception in 2013, the band has been known for their ethereal, unpredictable sound, and explosive live performances. Each of the members come from different backgrounds in musical influence, contributing to the sound that is now branded as Odd." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Odd">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.