There are two artists named Odious:

Odious is a Melodic Black Metal band from Alexandria, Egypt. Odious was founded in 1998 in Alexandria, Egypt. After Bassem Fakhri (Vocals and Synths) and Rami Magdi (Drums), put their way to create a new metal feeling with oriental instruments. Shortly, Ramzi Mayas (Bass) and Mohamed Hassan (All Guitars) were added to this line-up. But the bassist left the band for some personal reasons. Then Alfi Hayati has joined this line up. Recently in 2005, Mohamed Lameen has finalized this line-up as a rhythm guitarist. Every member has got his ideas which are gathered to create the feeling that can bound the 5 members into one soul.

The band started as an oriental doom metal band, but eventually changed their style to oriental black metal. Odious has signed a deal with the greek record label Sleaszy Rider Records on June 20, 2005. Their debut full length album entitled 'Mirror of Vibrations' was released on the 23rd of April, 2007 by Sleaszy Rider Records and distributed by EMI Music Greece.

Current Lineup:
Bassem Fakhri: All Vocals, Synths & Oriental Sounds
Mohamed Hassan: Lead Guitar & Oud
Mohamed Lameen: Rhythm Guitar
Alfi Hayati: Bass
Rami Magdi: Drums & Oriental Percussions

Official website: http://www.odious-band.com/

The other Odious is a rapper hailing from the south bay in California. Rapper Odious aka stone face odious is a gritty rhymer with the strength of a giant that Goliath could not match.  His topics range from unsuccessful job careers, coke addictions, real life rape incidents, walking with god, and indulging into the heart of hip-hop; LOVE. Often thought as a dark rapper, upon further listen it is evident that odious has faith in humanity.  Odious thrives past the evil and corruption to devolve the positive and worthiness of life.  Odious throws uppercut realities of life and spits the truth in the booth.

Influenced include "every one that i have ever spoken too, every one that spoke back, every one i have ever i had , every one i lost, every thing i love , every thing i hate, every thing i have seen ,every thing i have heard,every thing i hurt , every thing that hurt me and all that good shit...."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Odious">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.