There are few bands who share this name:

1. Odyssea, hard rock band formed in 1972 in Czech Republic.


2. Odyssea is a power metal band from Italy (Genoa, Ligury), formed in 1999. Odyssea project is born before 2000 when the guitarist Pier Gonella began to write songs and search for musicians in order to form a metal band called "Odissey". At the beginning, Pier Gonella wanted to create a speed metal album taking advantage of his guitar influences like Joe Satriani, Yngwie Malmsteen and others. During the auditions some collaborations started immediately. Pier recorded the guitars of the Steve Vawamas album "Athlantis", and later the guitars and the bass of the Wild Steel (Shadows of Steel singer) solo album. Then, Pier met Roberto Tiranti, Labyrinth singer. He liked the songs and Pier's guitar style, but because of too much musical engagements the collaboration is suspended. A little after Pier Gonella met Carlo Faraci, already famous singer in the Italian musical scene. Although Carlo always had dedicated itself to different kind of music from metal , the understanding with Pier is immediate. In short time they arranged the vocal parts of the entire album. They made a demo with the intention to contact some record companies, but subsequently they decide to produce the entire master. Then the drummer Chris Parisi entered the band. He collaborated with Pier Gonella in several musical situations. Between the end of the 2000 and the beginning of the 2001 the recording session took start. Steve Vawamas recorded the bass in two pieces and Wild Steel was guest singer in the song "Angel Cries". On May 2003 Pier Gonella entered Labyrinth and the mixing was suspended because of the engagements with Labyrinth band. Pier took up the collaboration with Roberto Tiranti, that recorded the vocals of the song "Fly", and between Labyrinth Italian tour and Japanese tour Pier Gonella and Carlo Faraci mixed the album. Subsequently the bass player Oscar Morchio entered the band. Pier contacted some record companies, until he singed with Scarlet Records. 

Odyssea's only abum is "Tears In Floods", released in 2004. The band split - up.


3. Odyssea is progressive young rock / metal band from Slovakia founded in 2002.

Line - up:

Bass, Lead Vocals - Michael Bukviš
Guitar, Vocals - Marek Matyas
Drums - Branislav Bužek
Lyrics - Tina Jaroščiaková. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Odyssea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.