Of Brutality and Grace spawned sometime around 2005 and 2006 back in the day when Fouad and Lucas started talking music around campus. It eventually led up to them sharing Guitar Pro files and fixing bugs in each other’s creations. It was pretty obvious that they had something going on when their combined efforts seemed to make so much more sense. Lucas got in contact with Josh, then drummer of “Decoy Death Trap”, and asked if he would be interested in forming a little project. Josh agreed, but nothing more than the exchange of Guitar Pro files was going on with the band.

The mania soon died out and it seemed like the “band” was going nowhere for a while. Time went by, and old bands seemed to slowly die. Lucas’ band “Deviant” split up, and Josh’s band “Decoy Death Trap” followed suit. A couple of months went by until Lucas and Fouad suddenly decided to write more material and start the whole Guitar Pro exchange all over. They began to realize how their different composing styles seemed to blend so well. They decided to name their brainchild “Of Brutality and Grace”. Lucas’ thrash history just seemed to bring out the angrier and heavier side of the music, while Fouad’s melodic influences seemed to lighten it up and sort of balance it out, so it just felt natural to call themselves that.

The band had everything they would need, a killer vocalist/front man, an amazing composer and one of the scene’s more popular drummer’s and a whole arsenal of mind-blowing ideas. The only thing stopping this steam-roller from running was the fact that they lacked a bassist. They tried a couple of bassists and even a keyboardist at some point, but none of them seemed to really blend in or tap into what they had going…But then came Ali, who seemed to blend in absolutely perfectly.

Soon after the band went into the studio with local producer Milton Kyvernitis to record 3 tracks to show the scene what they are capable of. The response they got was quite surprising for a new band. The music they play is so different from most bands from the scene, it just seemed to catch people’s attention. With their music all sorted out, and the fans craving for more, the band decided to look for shows.

If you do stumble across a show that includes Of Brutality and Grace on the bill, try to not shrug it off, but DO TRY make it down to watch some chaos get unleashed. Its something you wouldn’t want to miss. 

(taken from their myspace)
http://www.myspace.com/ofbrutalityandgrace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Of+Brutality+and+Grace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.