Of Doomed Morale is two-piece Canadian Drone/ Doom Metal recording project from Regina, Saskatchewan. All Of Doomed Morale releases are self-recorded and self-produced.  Of Doomed Morale formed in 2010 based on the principle of making the world a worse place, and on the idea of creating a misery laden soundtrack to this overbearingly uncomfortable, cloying, and hopelessly crushing experience called life.

Members:
Jacob WK - Guitars, vocals (lead and rhythm guitars,bass, production, mixing, mastering, engineering)
Mark Jarocki - Drums, vocals (lead and rhythm guitars,bass, production, mixing, mastering, engineering)

Press:
"So what happens when you have two 19-year-olds isolated on the prairies of Canada who want to destroy the world, one monolithic riff at a time? You get Of Doomed Morale, who have conjured one of the most devastating collections of songs this year – Ritual On Black Mountain. This is the kind of filthy, disgusting riffage that will make you want to drop out of society and live off the grid! This band suffocates the listener under layers of tortured sonic magic and they will leave you wanting another bong load as you descend deeper into the universe called Of Doomed Morale…I listened to this for days straight after finding this band, because they fucking RULE that HARD!"
-CVLTNATION
"The whole album (Arcas & Callisto) drips with a raw fuzz that punishes your ears from start to finish.  The record drags you into the broom closet and physically assaults you, violating your every orifice and penetrating your every pore." 
"...Raw, buzzsaw, bellowing vocals spread across the tracks like a pandemic outbreak, eating everything in their path whilst being fed all the time by the relentless and repetitive fury of the guitar, bass and drum barrage that rages across the whole opus." 
-Eminent Silence, http://eminentsilence.blogspot.ca/2014/06/life-is-not-comfortable-of-doomed.html

“Arcas & Callisto”, the debut full-length from this Canadian duo, is hitting on all cylinders. Filled with eight tracks that will punish your eardrums into a coma-like state, Of Doomed Morale have put aside the average, run-of-the-mill doom/drone record and said “fuck this, we are doing all of this our own way”. Pretty risky if you ask me but with a record that clocks in at nearly fifty-two minutes in length, it’s a ride that you will never forget."
"...It’s pretty simple, do yourself a favor and do whatever it takes to get your hands on this record. Buy it, download it, steal it, kill whomever you must but this record needs to be apart of your collection. I stand strong against that and so will you once you hear what these guys are capable of."
-DOOMMANTIA, http://www.doommantia.com/2014/06/of-doomed-morale-arcas-callisto.html

"...The whole music is shrouded in a overwhelming fuzz that makes the listen quite a painful experience. The intent is obviously to convey a kind of psychotropic vibe, an aura of gloomy decay; the voice is a drone-drenched bellow, as drone-drenched as the rest of the instrumentation... If you like to torture yourself, go blindly." 
-doom-metal.com, http://doom-metal.com/bands.php?band=1946

Official Bandcamp page:
http://ofdoomedmorale.bandcamp.com

Releases:
November 2014 - Ritual On Black Mountain (Full-Length)
April 2nd, 2014 - Arcas & Callisto (Full-length)
January 30th, 2014 - Numbers 31:33, Graves

A new record titled "Ritual On Black Mountain" was released through the band's Bandcamp page on November 4th, 2014 for a name your price download.
Previous releases are currently available as 'name your price' at http://ofdoomedmorale.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Of+Doomed+Morale">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.