As for the brief history of the band; in the fall of 2003 a random and unexpected conversation between friends resulted in a brief and even more unexpected phone conversation between complete strangers. A series of experimental practice sessions quickly lead to the formation of a three member ensemble; Ryan (lead vocals), Jon (guitars), Rob (drums). Almost unconsciously the three began the process of writing what would eventually become the December 2004 Wounded Records release “The Dead Will Rise”. After entering a local battle of the bands in March 2004 Ryan’s younger brother Nate was added to play bass and the current OTS roster was complete. After a year of touring to promote and support the release of “The Dead Will Rise”, a new record deal with Harvest Earth Records was inked. The release of an EP entitled “At War” is nearing completion and will most certainly represent another significant evolution for OTS.

While Of The Son continues to dedicate themselves to exploring new musical boundaries, developing the unique subtleties and nuances of their sound, the true foundation of the band is not a unique bass and drum pattern, powerful guitar chord, or brutal scream, but a steadfast commitment to following in the footsteps of Jesus Christ. This is a choice with an exponential effect. Flowing out of their dedication to Jesus Christ, OTS will continue to offer all those that are willing to listen an opportunity to experience an innovative approach to praise and worship music and a clear message of hope and love in the midst of a world that is overwhelmed with trite spiritual clichйs and empty religious metaphors.

Ultimately, the words of an ancient Jewish sage provide the ground on which Of The Son will continue to build their music and their lives; “But my life is worth nothing unless I use it for doing the work assigned me by the Lord Jesus, the work of telling others the good news of God’s wonderful kindness <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Of+The+Son">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.