There are 4 artists with the name "OFF":

1) OFF was an Eurodisco-project founded in 1986 by Sven Väth, and also Michael Münzing and Luca Anzilotti (who both became very famous as SNAP!). In the same year they produced the debut single "Bad News". That year the second single "Electrica Salsa" was released. This song was very successful in the charts in Germany, Austria, France and Italy. Suddenly, Sven Väth was a pop star. Electrica Salsa was immediately marketed internationally  and released on different labels.

Also in 1986 the project "16 Bit" 16 BIT was started by Michael Münzing and Luca Anzilotti. The songs "Where are you?" and "Changing Minds", with the voice of Sven Väth were succesful in the charts.  In 1987 the singles Step By Step, Harry ... Aber Jetzt and Timeoperator were released, but none of these reached the success of Electrica Salsa.  In November 1987 the first OFF album appears: "Organisation For Fun". In England this album is quite successful, but goes unnoticed in Germany. In the end of 1988 the next OFF-Single "La Casa Latina" is released, an attempt to bring the populair Acid-bandwagon to Germany - it is also the last production involving Sven Väth, Michael Münzing and Luca Anzilotti.  In 1989 the success of the Acid-sound fades quicky and more ambient House-sounds are popular. Sven Väth ends the cooperation with Michael Münzing and Luca Anzilotti. Together with Matthias Hoffmann he produces the second and last OFF-Album "Ask Yourself". From this album, only the track "Move Your Body" has some success. Halfway 1990, Sven Väth ends the story of OFF.                                                 

2) OFF! was formed in Los Angeles, California in late 2009 by Circle Jerks/Black Flag singer Keith Morris, Burning Brides frontman Dimitri Coats, Redd Kross bassist Steven Shane McDonald, and Rocket From The Crypt/Hot Snakes drummer Mario Rubalcaba. The idea to form the band came after Coats had worked as producer on a Circle Jerks album which fell apart. During that time, Morris and Coats had written several songs together which they used to start OFF!. The group made its live debut at the 2010 South By Southwest Music Festival in Austin, Texas. OFF!'s first Los Angeles show featured an original art installation by Raymond Pettibon at a downtown warehouse spacerigin

3) Off is an Iranian metal band from Tehran. They have an original style focusing on heavy metal with lyrics in their native tongue, along with interludes with spoken/folk style passages. The band have released album "Fake [Off]" and have begun to receive international fame, in particular for being a band in such a deep underground scene.

4) Brazilian power pop punk band founded in 2007 making it's way trough independent-music scene in Brazil. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Off">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.