The whole activity has begun on the mid of the year 2002, when André Luiz started a side-project with some of his local friends (Angela Jornada and Carlos Eduardo). On that time, the things didn’t happen like they wanted and that intent was not far beyond of some rehearsals. Some months later they had line-up changes: Chrystian Mass has joined the band and the things started to go on. Huge fans of the legend AUTOPSY (certainly the main OFFAL’s influence ever, also for the other members Daniel de Azevedo and Carlos Eduardo), the project was originally named “Orgy In Excrements”, an homage to the band and to the great Autopsy’s – "Acts Of The Unspeakable" album. Unfortunately as the time was passing by, the things didn’t happen how they wanted and the band broke-up after it's first gig. Some months later André Luiz, Chrystian Mass e Daniel de Azevedo decided to re-start the band’s activities but on a brand new way. So, at the end of the year 2003, OFFAL officially raise-up!

After the whole band reformulation, hey started to rehearse and (de)compose new songs, so on July 2004 they recorded its first stuff. With all things happening on a cool way, they did the 1st OFFAL’s gig on October 2004 beside some great Brazilian names such as Flesh Grinder and Osculum Obscenum. For this special occasion, Tersis Zonato was invited to play bass, but for some personal troubles he couldn’t play on that gig, so João Ongaro did. After this gig Daniel de Azevedo left the band, so the actual OFFAL’s line up is: André Luiz – Vocals, Chrystian Mass – Drums, João Ongaro – Bass and Tersis Zonato – Guitar / Vocals. The stuff recorded before was kept some time "hidden" and without any divulgation, just some few copies were made for some local friends. So, on January 2006, the material was sent to a new Brazilian label, and they immediately decided to release the 1st OFFAL’s official CD. In July of the same year, the OFFAL’s debut full-length CD was officially released: "OFFAL" (The Hole Productions / Brazil – 2006). Nowadays the band keep hardly working to finish the new songs for the upcoming 2nd full-length album and keep rehearsing to play some gigs at the nearly States of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul on the next months. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Offal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.