There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Offering is a jazz-influenced musical project of Christian Vander, post-Magma, meant as a tribute to the late John Coltrane.

Offering came to the world as one of Christian Vander’s post Magma projects.  Functioning throughout the later half of the 80s up till the early 90s Offering ventures into territory where only Magma’s ‘Merci’ dared to tread. While the 70s Magma revolved around a more classical interpretation, Offering shows Vander’s fascination with Coltrane’s acoustic inspired Jazz blossom into full realization. Offering is cited by many as Christian Vander's most praised post-Magma project.

Offering takes a step aside from Magma’s tight formulas, introducing compositions of a much looser, improvisational design. Vander’s drumming expertises sadly take to the bench, while focusing more specifically on vocal experimentations alongside his wife Stella. We hear an evolution of the soul-scat vocals utilized throughout Magma’s 1984 album ‘Merci’. Offering went on to record 3 albums, which hold many draw backs for most listeners. Much of the time the musical insights become quite unfocused and produces a patchy final product
Their latest recording ‘A Fiieh’ is their most concise document, bringing in a full line-up including the likes of Isabelle Feullebois, Philippe Dardelle and Emmanuel Borghi. The usual suspects are augmented by four other percussionist, four vocalists and one Keyboardist. The style becomes dark, minimalist and even a little more symphonic, while the epic ‘Purificatem’ reverts back into the familiar vibe of the two prior albums.

Hailed as one of Vander’s most accomplished post-Magma projects, this will appeal mostly to Christian Vander fans, but could still facilitate your average listener’s enjoyment.


2) Offering is a 4-man Christian rock band from Belmond, Iowa. Though currently semi-disbanded (said because Garrett Abel, lead vocalist, stated that they were each going down the path God has chosen for them), they do still occasionally perform shows in the midwest, in areas such as Iowa, Kansas, and Missouri. 
MySpace page

3) Offering was a death metal band from Switzerland. They released one EP in 1994 entitled "The Ultimate Offering".
Metal Arcvhives <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Offering">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.