There is more than one artist sharing the name Ogre;

1) Ogre was a Doom Metal band from Portland, Maine formed in 1999.

Ogre formed in 1999 when Ross Markonish and Will Broadbent grew tired of their current prog/drone/trance band, Hello Monster, and decided to start a 70s hard rock and heavy metal influenced project. They placed an ad in the local paper for a bassist/vocalist and were contacted by Ed Cunningham. In 2000 they released a six song demo, which led to their debut appearance on Water Dragon Records' Greatest Hits Vol. 1 (the same compilation which saw the debut of Swedish rockers Grand Magus). In 2003 Wurmhole Records released Ogre's debut album, Dawn of the Proto-Man. The band then signed to Japan's Leaf Hound Records for 2006's Seven Hells. Their third album, also on Leaf Hound, was released in 2008. It is entitled Plague of the Planet and consists of one long, multi-part, epic song. It was later rereleased by Shadow Kingdom Records, based out of Pennsylvania.

Ogre has announced that their 10th Anniversary show, set in their hometown of Portland, Maine for September 2009, will be a farewell for the band. However, some live shows may follow in Europe later in 2009 or early 2010. After their break-up, Will and Ross formed Dementia Five with whom they recorded an album, Revolt in the Fifth Dimension, which remained unreleased until April 2015. They reunited for one show in 2012, playing their first gig since the split-up at Geno's Rock Club in Portland, Maine together with Iron Man and Revelation on September 1st.

Ogre has cited their biggest influences to be Black Sabbath, Pentagram, Deep Purple, Saint Vitus, Cirith Ungol, Rush, Sir Lord Baltimore, AC/DC, Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, Motörhead, Buffalo, Toad, and Van Halen.

2) Robin Ogden (OGRE / OGRE Sound) is a composer for games and visual media, self confessed tape loop splicer, spring reverb tickler, and harbinger of imagined soundtracks for films that don't exist.

His work is grounded in a lifelong love affair with sound, whether produced from wonky analog synthesizers of yester-decades, contact microphones or strange and wonderful handmade instruments.

His music can be found in the award winning indie games Actual Sunlight, This Is The Police I & II, and Hacknet: Labyrinths, HBO's Vice Principals, Fangoria’s Hollydoom, Josan Gonzalez’ The Future Is Now series, and he was an audio consultant for the BBC’s first VR experience, Easter Rising: Voice Of A Rebel. 

Robin was named Electronic Sound Magazine’s One To Watch 2019 for his work with Dallas Campbell on their conceptual narrative album All Hallows’ II.

Robin is featured in, and scored, the forthcoming documentary The Rise Of The Synths, and is currently releasing music with Grammy winning soundtrack label Lakeshore Records.

3) Ogre (JPN) is a japanese thrash/death metal band

Discography:
Fuck It All (1999)
Lacerate the Betrayer (2003)
Total Laceration (2009) 

4) Ogre (IRE) is a brutal death metal band from  Dublin, Ireland, that was  formed in 1989.  They have had 3 releases,
Sanatas - 1991
Haitus - 1992
Dark Filth - 1994

5) Nivek Ogre, the frontman of Skinny Puppy.  He appeared on a few compilations as "Ogre" before releasing his Ohgr project. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ogre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.