"Teppichklopfer" or "Pracker" is the Austrian term for a beater to clean carpets with, made from willow or rattan. The base material is wrought into a loopy kind of meshwork, loosely resembling a tennis racket or, in its smaller version, a cloverleaf. More modern beaters are also made from plastic. For the purpose of cleaning a rug with these beaters, the carpet is brought out of the house into the open, where it is hung over a carpet beating frame and hit vigorously with the beater. Through this procedure, dust and other dirt is loosened and removed. (translated from: http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teppichklopfer)

In the science-fiction novel "star of the unborn" by Franz Werfel, which was finished 1945 (!), one can find, on page 256, a rather prophetic appearing description of a, seen from the future, past style of dancing: ".... supported by stubborn carpet beating, a compressed music..." A closer look at the text passage provides the willing reader with a rather astonishing discovery: Werfel is talking about techno or house music ! How he could foresee this style of dancing and music more than 50 years ago will maybe remain an enigma forever, in any case Ogris Debris have taken the carpet beating to heart.

And they celebrate it together with their audience at every occasion with zest and zeal. On AND off stage! After all, even pioneer Karlheinz Stockhausen already knew that for a dedicated electronic musician, at least one evening of dancing per week is absolutely mandatory. So even if Ogris Debris are prone to putting a dancing spell on their audience, they are not into no hocus-pocus but rather paint the town bright red, going the whole hog! With a lot of care, of course. Pressed on vinyl their leaning towards experimentation with styles and innovation is handled emphatically, but on stage you can feel their contagious party attitude, excessive dancing and singing prone to happen! And in order not to be to bland, there is always room for new flavors. Hence the motto: never to fall too far down the pigeonhole, coo-coo-cachoo. Also lyric-wise, urban fauna and flora (Miezekatze), the psyche of party people (G-Thong) or the body itself are most highly welcome as thematical playgrounds: Work that body! Remixers like Dave Aju (Circus Company), youANDme (Ornaments), Dorian Concept and Brothers' Vibe appreciate this and join in to tell their part of the story. 

A steady growing catalogue of releases on labels like Compost Black Label, Rotary Cocktail and Estrela provides the means to bring the tracks of "the Oh, the Dee" (as the two great pretenders, who can sometimes be real teasers, like to put it) into the crates and mixes of many a dj, and maybe not only Pokerflat chief Steve Bug knows: "There is probably no one as crazy as Ogris Debris..."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ogris+Debris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.