Old Head could refer to one of two bands:

1) Three old cabbage heads doin what they do in philadelphia, pa

twinkly noodle bois 
https://www.facebook.com/OldHeadMusic

book 'em and listen/download 4 free at ( •̀ω•́ )σ
oldheadmusic.bandcamp.com 

2)

Old Head is a Maximum Rock and Metal band formed in United States of America (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ) in 2008.

 www.facebook.com/oldheadshreds

Band members are;

Mega-Dan Tumolo - Vocals
Ryan "GG" Moll - Guitar
Dan O'Hare - Bass
Richard Hoak - Drums

Here's a little story taken from their myspace about how Old Head and how they came together...

"RYAN MOLL. A prolific shredder, Ryan is the most exciting guitarist on the east coast of the USA. He frequently sweats so much onto his guitar that it creates an electronic effect that can only be felt from the front row. When people are amazed at how fast and long he solos he casually remarks "You think I'm playing fast, You should hear how fast I sound in my "own" head !!!" MEGADAN TUMOLO. The singer of Old Head met the other members of the band a few years back when they were still in other bands (they still are) and thought to himself these are the dudes that I've been looking for to start the super group that is Old Head !!! Yeah some may say Dan is a little vain and has lofty dreams about changing the world through music,but when asked he retorts "Music has changed me fer the better, why not the werld !!!" RICHARD HOAK. The oldest/fastest drummer in the world with pierced nipples is such a ferocious drummer that it's hard for the rest of the band to keep pace. When MegaDan asks Rich to slow it down a little,and that he envisioned longer darker songs, Rich is usually heard to say "If you want 4 minute songs, you gotta write 'em a couple minutes longer cause "I DON'T KNOW HOW TO PLAY ANY SLOWER" On his off time Rich likes to collect cool lookin old junk that has no use !!! DAN O'HARE. The newest and youngest member of the band is totally emersed into the world of sound. He first was a guitar player and recording engineer (and yes he still is). When recordind Old Head MegaDan was so impressed by his intentiveness to making old Head sound it's best that he immediately asked Dan to make old Head a 2 Dan band and please play bass.And so he did !!!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Old+Head">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.