Biography

Oliver is a singer/songwriter that has worked in Germany, Norway and Japan resulting in a moderate release in Japan 1996 and another one in Norway in 2001. Early 2008 an album in Denmark and September 2008 an international solo Album will be released starting in Denmark featuring Tommy Aldridge (known from Ozzy Osbourne/Whitesnake) and bassist Marco Mendoza (known from Whitesnake/ThinLizzy).

He started singing in bands in 1983 (actually with Peter Maffay's guitarist Peter Keller) and has been part of the action ever since. He's a "front man" that's been playing rock/blues/funk and progressive metal from small clubs to big festivals. ....

His voice was trained for 7 years by a Hungarian opera singer in Germany while he was engaged as a hard-rock vocalist doing competitions, recordings and touring through-out Germany and Europe. ....

He then found more interest in the Norwegian rock scene and their quality of musicians inspired him very much. It resulted in an excellent peace of work which was released in Japan: Diabolos In Musika - "Natural Needs" Get a sample of the music via following link: www.ronnyheimdal.com. After Japan not resulting in the big break through, the band members started to go in different musical directions. ....

Shortly after becoming a father he thought of actually enjoying music on a little more relaxed state and started in a blues band: (www.nobodysbusiness.no) who tour extensively every year. This also resulted in the album: "Blue Shoe" of which he's proud. It might be a bit musically different than his first release but it was still an enjoyable project that lasted until early 2007. ....

Living in Denmark since 2000 and stopping with Nobody's Business (Norway) early 2007, he wanted to try to get together with people that know their instruments, love creating music, enjoy performing and who work with an aim. He's more than happy to have met Ripe (www.myspace.com/weareriperocks) and is happy to part of a good old 80's style metal band ala Iron Maiden, DIO. The first album was recorded early 2008 and is now waiting to be released. But it's already available here: ripe@mwp.dk....

January 2008 Oliver joined the Danish X-Factor TV show and was profiled a lot during the audition rounds and the finals. Oliver joined the show to make contacts to the Danish music business. Coming from outside of Denmark he thought this is a fast way to build contacts. He was rejected just before the X-factor live shows for reasons the audience still has no answers on. The X-factor production manager didn't just accept this and got Oliver back into the show at the TV finals where he joined to sing Queen's: The show must go on! This resulted in so much storm on youtube and media that Oiver was  contacted shortly afterward by super producer/songwriter Søren Andersen that is part owner of the well known Medley Studios in Copenhagen.....

 Summer 2008 Søren Andersen and Oliver are recording Oliver Weers first solo Album. Oliver has signed a record deal with Target Records for this album. And this will with no doubt be the most advance production in his career and to make sure about it he has hired in drummer legend Tommy Alrdrige who amongst many others has played for  Ozzy Osbourne and Whitesnake and bassist Marco Mendoza who has also played with Whitesnake and many other big bands like Thin Lizzy, Blue Murder. .... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Oliver+Weers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.