Olivia Belli was born in Mantua, Italy. 

Belli is considered one of the most promising Italian pianists of the moment.

Born in Mantua but raised in Trieste, Olivia studied classical piano at the conservatory and soon developed an affinity with 20th and 21st century composers such as Glass, Ligeti, Reich and Stockhausen and Ludovico Einaudi.

Since childhood she has been surrounded by music and this passion has always accompanied her throughout her life.

In the early 2000s she founded together with her husband, Enrico Belli, also a musician, the festival “Perpianosolo Meeting“, in which they worked in collaboration with other artists, such as dancers, actors, photographers, writers and painters, reflecting their love for the arts.

Although she has always composed and performed music Olivia Belli had never considered sharing her compositions publicly, until recently: in 2016 she started sharing her work with the album “My Piano Dolce Vita” in which she re-proposed famous songs in a totally personal key, and was wonderfully impressed by the response of the audience, as more and more listeners connected with her deeply personal musical poems.

In 2018, her debut album featuring her compositions, “Where Night Never Comes”, was released after a very successful Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign. The album was well received by audiences and critics, was well received in the Modern Classical Charts, reaching 1 position in “Best Modern Classical Album 2018 by SoloPiano.com (USA)” and included in ReverbNation’s Classical Top Chart.
Further developing her artistry as a composer, Olivia released her second album “River Path” in February 2020 through 1631 Recordings and Decca Records. The album quickly gained support from media and streaming services, leading to over 30 million listens in just a few months.

In April 2020, Olivia and her husband and musical collaborator recorded and released the environmentally inspired album “Mater” as a tribute to the 50th anniversary of Earth Day.

Nature has always been the main source of inspiration for the musician, she says that sunrise is her favorite time to compose, because of the sense of calm and positivity of the morning light. It is precisely this feeling of optimism and deep reflection that her melodic and harmonious compositions convey, those that make up her new album “Sol Novo“.

The title “Sol Novo” means “new sun” or “new day”, and refers to the territory that surrounds her home: the hills, villages and mountains on one side, and the coast, the beach and the sea on the other.

Her upcoming tour will take her to play in various cities across Europe, including Milan, Madrid, Barcelona, Berlin, and London. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Olivia+Belli">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.