Olivier Giacomotto's production and DJing career began in 1999 through work in recording studios where he learned how to use samplers, mixing desks, effects, computers and music software. From the Blues Cafe Studio in Paris to Townhouse Studios in London, Olivier worked with Robert Suhas, Magnus Fiennes, Guy Pratt, Yohad Nevo, Pete Lewis, John Themis, Bond, Lyrics, and various other famous bands, producers, studio musicians and sound engineers from the mainstream music industry.

Back in his hometown of Bordeaux,France Olivier began programming breakbeat, drum and bass, triphop, hiphop and lounge through projects like Shagshag, Dubweisers or Uprock Massive. In 2002 with Shagshag, he won a remix contest organised by NEWS and got his first vinyl release: Plastyc Buddha - Rhodes Royce (Shagshag Remix).

During 2004 and 2005, Olivier produced more than 20 EPs. All these releases have been massively played and charted by scores of djs such as Misstress Barbara, Carl Cox, Chris Liebing, Umek, Marco Bailey, Christian Varela, Dave Angel, Felipe, Tonio, Green Velvet and many more...

2006 has been the starting point of Olivier's international career: He began by hitting Brazil and came back with major feedback and support from one of the best south american scenes. Olivier is also constantly on the move across europe, playing in famous clubs and events like Privilege in Ibiza, Rex Club in Paris, Heineken City Hall in Amsterdam, La Bush in Belgium, Fabrik in Madrid, Turnmills in London, Hrad in Slovakia, Dom Im Berg in Austria, Fusion in Germany...

Olivier provided exclusive bootlegs for djs including Felix da Housecat, 2 Many Djs, and Tiga. His first electro release came on Dietrich Schonemann's imprint, Tora Tora Tora. TTT-14, entitled Jamon y Queso EP, and coproduced with Damon Jee, immediatly got big support from worldwide dj's such as John Acquaviva, Sven Vath, Steve Bug, Tony Rios, and many more...

Summer 2006 started with another smash, this time on John Acquaviva's imprint; Definitive Recordings. The 3 tracker, called Walking on The Moog was co-produced with Damon Jee and created such a big buzz on the scene that it even opened the doors to the top10 of beatport's electro house chart and the mainroom of Privilege, Ibiza.

Year 2007 started with his work on Volta from Robot Needs Oil. Massively played around the world, this remix reached the second place of Beatport Top100 Chart. He's one of the key artist of Definitive Recordings, working closely with John Acquaviva on various projects, releases, and remixes. His release called Gail in the O was number one on the top sales charts. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Olivier+Giacomotto">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.