1. Olvido comes to life during early 2006 in Girona (Catalonia, Spain) with the proposal of taking to itself varied styles and influences of rock and metal, from the more comercial side of both genres to those classified as underground, reflected thus the preferred styles of all of its varied members. The lyrical part of the repetoire of the band takes inasmuch from varied sources; deepest sentimentality, mysticism, vision, metaphore, mystery, joining, introspection, prophecy and darker landscapes still. https://www.facebook.com/grupolvido
Olvido might be classified succinctly as a bombastic and dark band... at least by those who can glimpse the flashes of humor (black and even acid) that lurk in their lyrics, compositions and actions. Taking the ups and downs in their path with a dose of self-mockery, the group describes itself as "the metal band with the worst luck in the world”. 

In 2007 their self named demo is recorded. It includes 7 original songs from the band, is destined for a self promotional use and receives favorable reviews from both critics and fans alike. The track "Más Allá del Gusano Vencedor” (a homage to Edgar Allen Poe, containing fragments from his poem "Conqueror Worm") appears in the collection of tracks “Vitruvio III” released by Risestar Promotions, past of the international label Risestar International, a limited edition destined to the promotion of promising bands of the genre among diferent labels, promoters, distributers and international mass media.

After several lineup changes and a highly acclaimed series of concerts in 2009, Olvido joined Music Lan Recording Studios of Figueres (Grammy winners) to record their first official LP, "Neurosis De Destino". Completing such high recording quality, the album postproduction was done at "Studio Fredman" in Gothenburg, Sweden (Dark Tranquillity, Dimmu Borgir, In Flames, Arch Enemy, Spiritual Beggars...), by Fredrik Nördstrom and Henke Udd.
“Neurosis de Destino” was released on March 2, 2010, co-edited by the spanish lavel DFX Records and the multinational EMI Records, and distributed by SONY. Garnering good reviews in the specialized media , that showed how difficult it was to agree on the band style. Olvido is described as unique and original band in the national metal scene.

Olvido toured the roads of Spain to present several live concerts in Girona, Barcelona, Madrid, Sevilla, Cádiz... leaving behind a track of great performances... until the snake appeared again in Paradise.
DFX Records disappeared and "Neurosis De Destino" was left too early without promotion and record company support. This "coitus interruptus" led the band to stop the tours, but allowed them to get back to the studio to produce their second LP, "Luto".

"Luto" is a conceptual album that focuses on the five stages of grief (Denial, Anger, Bargaining, Depression and Acceptance) theorized by psychiatrist Kübler-Ross. This second album is much more aggressive, technically accomplished, and manicured than its predecessor. The lyrics intend to approach the loss of everything that was once important and vital to one's self (love, dreams, ideals, passion, dignity, the life of a loved one, and one's own life). The album was again recorded at Music Lan Recording Studios, during June, October and November 2012, and was produced by Hiili Hiilesmaa (HIM, Apocalyptica, Amorphis, Moonspell...) at the Yellow House Studio in Hämeenlinna (Finland). 
“Luto” was released in october 2013, garnering always better reviews in the specialized media, some define Olvido as "Avantgarde Metal", but “Luto”, more than ever, showed how difficult is to be agree, on the genre or style of the band. 
With the support of the record lavel "Art Gates Records" and "Stigia", the band stars a tour by Spain to presents the show called "LUTOUR" (2014), and also play with the Swedish band Grand Magus by their spanish tour.

Under the pretext of celebrating the fifth anniversary of Neurosis De Destino, the band offers in their concerts a review of all their discography, while composing the third studio album, called "CUPIDO MORS".

"CUPIDO MORS" is a double LP Digipack released in Spain 14 October, and distributed worldwide 25 October 2016, with Art Gates Records. Recorded in Music Lan Studio and Estudis Lullaby, from February to April (2016). 
The side one, is pure Olvido's characteristic metal stile , mixing dark atmospheres, with twisted and warped vocal melodies, and Gothic, with black metal passages too. This time with more direct and powerful sound than ever, thanks to mixing and mastering from Cube Studio, and the reputed producer Alberto Seara (Sôber, Hamlet, Mago De Oz, SKUNK D.F.…) . 
The other side of "CUPIDO MORS" is a new experiment of Olvido, produced by Joan Berenguer. This compositions are Electro-Acoustic, ambient and minimalist, closely related to dark folk , ethereal wave, or world music.
Olvido is now on tour across Spain, and soon will announce some European tour dates.

 “The most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known suffering, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths. These persons have an appreciation, a sensitivity, and an understanding of life that fills them with compassion, gentleness, and a deep loving concern. Beautiful people do not just happen.”

Elisabeth Kübler-Ross

http://olvido-oficial.bandcamp.com/merch 
 www.reverbnation.com/olvido
 https://www.facebook.com/grupolvido
 www.twitter.com/olvido_oficial
 https://open.spotify.com/artist/78OgiEJyDtT2Kf4aEN2z3i
www.myspace.com/0lvid0

Booking: http://www.stigia.es/
Record Label: http://www.artgatesrecords.com/ 

OTHER BANDS CALLED OLVIDO:

1. OLVIDO - Pop punk band from Mexico City, Mexico.

https://olvido1988.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Olvido">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.