Omar Kadir; "Lets go get 'em now, we'll ask questions later." This straight minded, 24 year old is much more than what he may seem. He and his business partner/music producer, megaMIKE, are the industry’s ultimate package of entertainment. Both are able to plan in the background in order to explode their talents in the foreground. Not only will Omar create, record, and mix his music, but also plan and choreograph all of his performances. The stage is where he finds his home to excite the mainstream crowd with an underground flavor of urban dance and heart-pounding music. 

A self-taught dancer of 10 years, specializing in popping and locking, Omar has opened and performed with the likes of Souls of Mischief, KRS-One, Andre Nikatina, and showcased at Los Angeles’ Kodak Theatre. Touring nationwide competitions of the underground B-Boy scene as a member of “Flex Flav”, he made his way into the top 50 dancers in Los Angeles of Fox’s “So You Think You Can Dance” Season 2. 

Currently, he is pursuing the expansion and growth of his music career as an R&B inspired Hip Hop artist. With the release of his latest single, “I Need Her” featuring Jinny from D.B.S., accompanied by the single’s music video, Omar continues to push forward getting recognition on local Bay Area blogs such as Claycord.com. His music can be heard on various internet radio stations including: UnheardRadio.com, DLXRadio.com, and has reached the number seven placement of the Urban Clear Channel Radio Station's Top 20 Unsigned Artists. His reach to his audience is growing at an alarming rate, gaining interest from Bay Area promoters, few independent record labels, and has allured the interest of Def Jam distribution. To close out 2009, Omar and megaMIKE are in the midst of planning and scheduling a statewide college/university tour for 2010 and are preparing for the release of his first mixtape entitled "Proof".
Mixtape Art

Omar is continuing to build his wealth of knowledge and carry a strong entrepreneurial spirit throughout the entertainment industry. Branching into all aspects where his talents deem to be of need, it's an undeniable fact that Omar's contributions to the industry will leave an everlasting imprint to the future of the entertainment field.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omar+Kadir">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.