Omega Crom is a Vancouver based metal band that has been part of the underground metal scene for many years. This Canadian act brings to the stage their own genre of “Ripping Metal”, a progressive blend of power metal with elements of aggressive death, shred and thrash.

Omega Crom’s debut album “Blood, Steel and Fire” is produced in collaboration with Juno award winning engineer Rob Shallcross who has worked on albums with (Strapping Young Lad, Zimmers Hole, GWAR, Darkest Hour, Fattooth) and features guitar driven songs blended with diverse vocal styling from high falsetto wails, mid-range power to hardcore screams. Omega Crom seamlessly combine punchy rhythms, contrasting patches of melodic clean guitar, ripping solos, flowing harmonies, intense bass guitar attacks alongside relentless double kick thrash beats punctuated with inventive rolls and blast beats.

At an Omega Crom show you can expect to see over the top showmanship from shot gunning beers, excessive head banging and intense bass and guitar solos. Members include the likes of lead singer / shred master Johnny K, fierce shredder Wayne Holden, insane bassist Ian “Rapid Mutilation” Wilcke and Dan “The Rock” La Pierre who keeps it crushing on drums. These boys are all literally foaming at the mouth with hunger to rip and tear.

These Vancouver denizens of metal have received rave reviews for their live performances. They have shared the stage with such acts as Three Inches Of Blood, Zimmers Hole, Infernal Majesty, Into Eternity, Kataklysm, Stratovarius, Into Eternity, Divinity, Hibria, Fattooth.

“The origin of Omega Crom’s name springs from Robert E. Howard’s Conan the Barbarian,” says front man Johnny Ketlo who is admittedly a long time fan of Robert E. Howard novels and Marvel Comics.

“Crom is the Cimmerian God of Steel and Slayer of Giants. Omega means the Final and Eternal, the end. (The Final and Eternal Slayer of Giants) Omega Crom is the Ultimate Extremity of Crom and a Signal to termination,” states Johnny Ketlo.

Asking front man Johnny Ketlo to describe the musical experience of Omega Crom he says “It’s like Judas Priest on Steroids!!!” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omega+Crom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.