There are multiple artists using this name:

1. OMEN is an American Heavy Metal band that was formed in Los Angeles in 1983 by guitarist Kenny Powell, as he left the band Savage Grace.
Omen is best-known for melodic yet aggressive power metal/fantasy metal along the lines of King Diamond, Queensrÿche, Savatage, Manowar, and Helloween; Omen is forceful and hard-driving, but they're always been musical and melodic. The band was formed in Los Angeles in 1983 by lead guitarist Kenny Powell, who had been a member of an L.A.-based band called Savage Grace. Powell's early influences included Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, UFO, Ronnie James Dio, Black Sabbath, and Rainbow (among others), and Omen's Metal Blade and Enigma recordings of the '80s reflected the guitarist's appreciation of those headbangers.
Omen has had its share of lineup changes over the years; in addition to Powell, the band's early members included lead singer J.D. Kimball (R.I.P.), bassist Jody Henry, and drummer Steve Wittig. In 1984, Omen signed with the L.A.-based Metal Blade and recorded their debut album, Battle Cry, which was followed by Warning of Danger in 1985, The Curse in 1986, Nightmares in 1987, and Escape to Nowhere in 1988. Throughout the '80s, glam metal, pop-metal and hair bands were huge on the L.A./Hollywood rock scene -- the Sunset Strip was inundated with bands that hoped to be the next Quiet Riot, Poison, or L.A. Guns. But when other L.A. bands were heavily into the glam scene, Omen was a power metal band first and foremost.
Omen are now back again with a new line-up and new material.

2. An American rapper from Chicago.  Chicago-born emcee, Omen (born Damon Coleman) goes his own route, delivering incredible songs shaped by rhymes, melodies and composition inspired, by some of his favorite artist growing up such as Nas, Stevie Wonder, Michael Jackson and Common. However, his most significant influences come from his own real life situations and emotions as well as his  vivid imagination.

3. Omen is a Power Metal/Thrash Metal/Speed Metal band from Hungary. It was formed after the break of Pokolgép by László Nagyfi (guitar) and József Kalapács (vocals) in 1990. They were joined by Ossian's drummer Zoltán Nagyfi (drums), András Ács (bass) and Bikini's guitarist Zsolt Daczi. Soon after, Daczi had to leave Omen because of his duties with Bikini, so Tamás Szekeres (one of the most renowned guitarists in Hungary) joined the band. This lineup released 3 albums, but in 1993 Szekeres left, to be replaced by László Nagyfi's former apprentice Lajos Sárközi.

The band almost split up in 2000 when Kalapács and Sárközi left to form Kalapács. Omen was on hiatus until 2003, when Daczi re-joined the band (to be fired from Bikini in less than a year). The vocalist became Zoltán Pintér, mostly known as Oki, renowned for his participation in a reality show earlier on. In the meantime, Ács also left to engage in other activities than music; he was replaced by former Ossian and Fahrenheit bass player Gábor Vörös.

Soon Oki was fired for his inability to learn the lyrics of the songs (and thus ruining live shows); Tibor Gubás joined the band in 2004, re-recording a song for the 2004 best of album. After the promising beginnings with Gubás, Daczi had a severe traffic accident, which once again knocked the band to hiatus for a year. The first concert of this lineup was in October 2005; the new album was released in February 2006. In the summer of 2006, Daczi was diagnosed with cancer. During the fall of 2006, a re-recorded version of the 2003 album Tiszta szívvel was released under the title Agymosás, with Gubás on vocals instead of Oki. From early 2007 on, Miklós Cziffra played instead of Daczi in the concerts as the latter was not strong enough to go on stage.

Daczi died in August 2007. He was 38 years old.

During the spring of 2009, former Akela, current After Rain guitarist Zsolt "Szupermen" Szijártó joined, but Gubás was fired because of similar reasons to the firing of Oki. In the fall of 2009, the vocalist of hard rock band P. Box, Árpád Koroknai, was added to the lineup.

4. Omen is a Polish Heavy Metal band that released one single and split up. 

5. Omen is a dubstep artist from England whose tracks appear on various dubstep compilations including Tectonic Plates. 

6. Omen is a Black Metal band from Malaysia.
They released a few demos in 2009.

7. Omen is Alexey Budylev (Алексей Будылёв)
Trance/Progressive DJ & producer from Moscow, Russia. Born: June 2nd 1980. Also known as Alexey Omen

8. OMEN are a boyband from Georgia, USA. 
They have release two full length LPs, Hyperyeet and Yada. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.