There are two bands named Omnium Gatherum. 
1) Melodic death metal band from Finland. 
2) Grindcore band from Australia. 
1) Omnium Gatherum is a six-piece melodic death metal band from Kotka, Finland. Founded in the autumn of 1996. Although the band mainly follows the path of melodic death metal genre, the music created by the band, especially the later albums, has strong influences from the progressive death metal sub-genre.

After releasing four demos, they released a full-length debut album Spirits And August Light by Rage Of Achilles records in April 2003 that caught the attention of the underground metal community.
They signed to Nuclear Blast in 2004 and released their second album Years In Waste in November 2004 in Europe and March 2005 in the USA. This album was re-mastered in 2008 as 24-bit golden disc with 6 bonus tracks.

In Spring 2006 the long-time singer Antti Filppu was replaced by Jukka Pelkonen aka J.

As critical reception was lukewarm to their second album, Nuclear Blast dropped them and they signed to Candlelight records. Now with a new vocalist, they released their third album Stuck Here On Snakes Way April 2007 after a UK tour. After the release, the band continued to do tours with well known metal bands such as Dark Tranquillity, Caliban and Entombed, and earned the No. 31 position in the Finnish National Album chart.

They recorded their fourth album The Redshift at Sound Supreme and SouthEastSounds Studios during the spring of 2008 and it was mixed and mastered at Unisound Studio. This release received generally positive reviews and the band was able to do long European tours with Nile & Grave in 2008, Swallow The Sun & Insomnium in 2009 and hit No. 24 on the Finnish National Album chart. In the summer of 2008 bassist Eerik Purdon announced that he will leave Omnium Gatherum, and Toni Mäki joined Omnium Gatherum in 2009 as their new bassist.

In August 2010, the band signed to Lifeforce Records for their next release, and also that their longtime rhythm guitarist Harri Pikka has left the band. Their official statement read "We're really sorry to announce also that Harri Pikka has silently decided to flee the OG crew after 13 years of solid service. We don't know his exact reasons for this but maybe someday mr. Mystery Man tells us… :) At the moment we've decided to finish the new album as a 5-piece unit, but we have the best possible live guitar unit called Joonas Koto (Malpractice / Ex-To/Die/For / Ex-Hateframe) filling the second guitar live duties at the moment and it rocks!"  

The fifth full-length studio album New World Shadows was recorded during the period August 2010 - October 2010 and was released in Germany, Austria and Switzerland on February 4, 2011, Finland, Sweden and Hungary on February 9th, the rest of Europe on February 7th and North America on March 1st. Lead Guitarist Markus Vanhala handled all guitar parts for the recording and mixing and mastering was once again be handled by Unisound. New World Shadows was well received by critics and it earned the No. 5 position on the Finnish National Album chart and the No. 1 position on the Finnish Rumba Indie chart. It was hailed for the mixture of harmonizing melodies along with typical death/heavy metal guitars and drumming. The vocal styles vary from deep death growls to clean vocals. The sound of the album is epic and progressive. To promote the album, Omnium Gatherum toured Europe with Rotting Christ in April/May 2011. On June 17, 2011 it was announced that live-guitarist Joonas "Jope" Koto has joined Omnium Gatherum as their new full-time second guitarist. 

Beyond, the sixth full-length studio album was released by Lifeforce records in late February, 2013. Beyond was produced by Teemu Aalto and Sami Koivisto, recorded at Teemu Aalto Music Productions studio and the band agan returned to Unisound studio for mixing and mastering. The album's artwork was created by Olli Lappalainen. Guitarist Markus Vanhala  wrote on the band's official website that "The album follows the good known path of “New World Shadows” and “The Redshift” but adds a lot of new flavours and spices to the good ol' melting pot to lift the band to a new heights." Markus also stated that Beyond is their most melodic and versatile album so far but still holds the brutal side in terms of Jukka Pelkonen's vocals. The theme of the album is about the culmination point of one's existence. On February 6, 2013, the official music video for "The Unknowing" was released.

2) An Australian grindcore band formed in Adelaide, Australia in 1997. They've released two demos, Demo '98, Promo '99, a full length album Rectifying Human Rejection released by Life Fluid Productions, 2001. Followed by a split with Total Fucking Destruction released by Gloon in 2002 and a single Keys of Opportunities also in 2002. In 2005 they changed their name to Omnium. As Omnium they've released one demo simply titled Promo in 2006 and a self-released full length Omnium in 2007. They are active. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omnium+Gatherum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.