Omnia Malis Est is a one man band studio project created from the mind of Uruk-Hai (founder and owner), in Lucania (Italy) december 2006. 

Ideas and arrangements were conceived between 2004 and 2006 when “La Rivolta Delle Stelle” came out, 
self produced demo of raw black metal with some electronic inserts.

Later in 2007, was published “Fides”, first EP edited from "Il Male Prod." web label in the hands of Porz (Malnàtt).

Omnia Malis Est stops for 6 years where Uruk-Hai focuses on various projects and bands:
guitarist for NEFERTUM with the highly acclaimed album “Revered Lames”, with whom shared the stage with the best metal band outside.
Guitarist for MODUS DELICTI, grind brutal death metal band from Milano with members from Septycal Gorge, Vomit The Soul ecc. 
Guitaris for INFERNAL ANGELS composing the song "Melody Of Pain", and as singer in STEFANO ZANI'S PROJECT thrash death metal band from Brescia with the E.P. “hanging from the chains of oblivion with members from Thetra, Endless Pain, Illogicist, Cadaveric Crematorium and in the end, a new one man studio project born with the name A TREE (rock depressive black metal) out with the album “Fn-2+Fn-1=Fn”.

After achieving lot of experience and skills, in Febrauary 2014 the project OMNIA MALIS EST come back with the intent to perform melodic black metal in the best way. With these ideas in mind, the debut album “VITELIU” comes out signed with Hidden Marly Prod, Japanese extreme metal label, distribuited by Code 7 (Europe) and Zero Dimensional Rec. (Japan)

What is “VITELIU”?
The OMNIA MALIS EST’ s VITELIÚ is War.
An historical reconstruction of the Samnium’s tribes in the south of Italy, lands that gave birth to brave fighters and fearless soldiers. 
A reflection on the will of annihilation sets from Rome to his greatest and most feared enemies: Samnites.
An album that redeems centuries of struggles against Rome's expansion attempts.
Power and melody, impetuosity and epicism, great pathos and war-furious attacks, permeate OMNIA MALIS EST debut album.
Warlike Black Metal to redeem our history. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omnia+Malis+Est">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.