Omni is an American post-punk band from Atlanta. The band is a duo consisting of Philip Frobos on vocals and bass and Frankie Broyles on guitar, drums, and keyboard. Broyles was previously a member of Deerhunter.Their sound is influenced by post-punk bands like Television, Talking Heads, and Wire, with "mathematical" rhythms and "wiry guitar chords, nervy basslines, and jolting beats."
The band's first album, Deluxe, was released in 2016 on Trouble in Mind Records to positive reviews. Their second album, Multi-task, followed in 2017 and received positive reviews as well, including a 7.6 rating from Pitchfork.
In 2019, Omni signed to Sub Pop, and released their third album, Networker, later that year. This album was also appreciated by critics. In his review, Chris Ingalls at PopMatters wrote that the band had "managed to pull off the difficult trick of dragging an older, established subgenre into the current musical climate skillfully and effectively." Drew Schwartz from Vice called them "the best post-punk band in America".
There are other artists with the same name:

2. Omni is a 3-piece progressive rock band, formed in the late 1990s in Seattle, WA, USA.  In 2002 they released their first full-length album "Paint By Numbers". The line-up of the band changed considerably sometime after 2002, with vocalist Hans Twite and guitarist Pat Allen leaving the band and being replaced by David Green on guitar and vocals. Omni released their second full-length album, "Ghosts" in the spring of 2008. Their official site can be found at (www.omni-music.com).

3. Omni the West L.A based hip hop artist released Funkdafied Freddy in 2001 (B9000/Grooveattack), when he was 19, and celebrated his 21st birthday on the road in promotion of his sophomore release, 2003'sBurgundy Brown (BLX), which was followed up swiftly with 2005's Ballyhoo (Ariel/KSD). Spring 2007 saw the release of Batterie on San Francisco-based hip-hop indie label NatAural High Records.

Omni has been on the road performing in France, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, Japan, Korea, Peru, and almost every major city in the U.S., on bills alongside artists like the Wu-Tang Clan, Tha Alkaholiks, Hieroglyphics, Mos Def, and John Legend.

4. Omni was a 80's disco band.

5. Omni is a DJ and electronic music producer from Montreal, Canada. He has released around twenty tracks and remixes on labels such as Baroque Records, Absolut Freak Records, Cliché Musique, Elektrofone Records, 4Play Trax, Unfused Recordings as well as Tasty Bytes Records, the label that he co-created along with Alice & The Serial Numbers. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omni">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.