There are currently 2 artists under this name. 1) Underground Hip-hop artist from Miami  2)Symphonic Black Metal Band from North Carolina. 

1) Rising to become one of Miami's most talented and recognized artists is not easy- Omniscient has done just that. Omniscient has earned the respect of his peers, and a reputation as someone who steadily accomplishes his goals. It is the ability to maintain his individualism in an industry full of carbon copies that makes Omniscient stand out. After receiving positive responses at local open-mics, cypher's and shows, Hip-Hop began to take on a new form for Omniscient. No longer just a hobby or a pastime, but a potential future. Om decided to focus exclusively on his music and becoming a better artist. 

In 2004 Omniscient started working his crew Flow Official's E.P. Thatz how we build & Awareness the mixtape & succesfully got a project licensed by a german distibution company (Europe) for an overseas release. The album brought some brief international touring & great collaborations for some more European accolades & nominations- Omniscient returned home with a vision of the future, ready to get back to work and advance his now promising career. 

Om's life changed drastically in 2005 when he was diagnosed with some cancerous tumors, everything became secondary to his health wich took a stab at what he had worked so hard to accomplish up until then. 12 to 14 months later he returns to the scene noticing time waits for no one & he now had to start building his name & career all over again, from scratch. Still wanting to work he surprisingly continued to record music while on chemotherapy allowing him to release Vocal Revolution the mixtape late 2006. 

Omniscient really began to develop his identity as an artist & in 2008 After connecting with Locos por Juana, Om, for the first time really started showcasing himself in industry respected venues & festivals on a more regular basis to the extreme of being Nominated for an American Grammy for his collaboration with the band on La Verdad lp released by Universal/Machete which was nominated for Best Latin/Alternative album of the year & earned him a trip to the Grammy's in L.A., which for many, put him on the map as a legitimate rising star in Miami's Music scene. 

Omniscient has opened up for legendary artists such as Earth Wind & Fire, Gangstarr, Ludacris, Smiff & Wesson, Tego Calderon, Killah Priest, Cultura Profetica, The Roots, Immortal Technique & many more. Performances in Europe, USA, Latin America. Records released in those continents plus the country of Japan. 

For discography go to http://www.discogs.com & write Omniscient. Omniscient has shown he can write, rhyme, and perform with the best of them, he makes undeniable music. With a style unlike any other & control over English & Spanish, he continues to make heads turn in an array of diverse genres like Alternative, Latin/Alternative, Tropical/Latin, Hip-Hop & R&B. Omniscient can easily be one of the most traveled independent MC's in the city. He always makes sure to let his talent and ability shine through. Omniscient has evolved into a world class artist. With all the skill and vision, there is only one direction for this young MC to go & thats up in the ranks.


2) Omniscient, hailing from Wilmington, North Carolina, is a six piece assault of symphonic brutality. Uniting elements of black metal, death metal, shred, thrash, and classical styles into a performance not witnessed before. The intricate structures of the music coupled with the intensely profound lyrics builds Omniscient's dark, yet melodic and powerful sound.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omniscient">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.