There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Omniverse is a one-man, many-machines band based in Seattle. The man behind the machines is Todd Wallar, but Omniverse better describes the omnivorous, omnidirectional scope of sonic influence in his music. Disparate sonic threads are woven into Omniverse’s downtempo grooves with a down-home texture, lending a rich, full flavor to his latest release, Dandelion. 

While mostly instrumental, the music of Omniverse covers a broad spectrum of sonic goodness: trip-hop beats, 60s influenced lounge music, drum and bass, post-rock mood music, and downtempo grooves.

Influences include the soundtrack music of Ennio Morricone, Lalo Schifrin, and Bernard Herrmann; the high velocity electronic mixes of: Amon Tobin, DJ Spooky, Oval, µ-Ziq, and Squarepusher; and the modern indie rock pioneers of Mogwai, Tortoise, Jim O'Rourke, Stereolab, Cornelius.

The music of Omniverse has appeared on several compilation projects as well as in independent short films and the feature film, The Matrix Revisited. Six Omniverse tracks have been included in the new Ultimate Matrix Collection DVD box set.

Discography:
Dandelion (2003)
Cryptozoology EP (2012)
Cryptozoology Magalodon Set (2013)

2) 1990s House duo of Ricky Montanari and Claudio "Moz-Art" Rispoli based in Ravenna, Italy.

Singles:
Never Get Enough (1990)
Venere (1991)

3) An Acoustic band based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Derek Krystek and Benjamin Greenwood drove out to Newark, Ohio to record some songs with Jonathan Hape at National Audio Preservation Society. The songs were written by Derek, and enhanced by Jon and Ben.

Discography:
Omniverse (2016)

Lyrically, the album is a deep space exploration of the self. Musically it is unique in it's approach to songwriting. You will not find many choruses, yet you will come across familiar passages through existing themes, ultimately rendering you helpless in a hollow vacuum of nostalgia.

4) Omniverse gestated in a puddle of fermenting Kombucha in Temple, New Hampshire the year of 2007.

Feral McElreavy - vocals
Graeme McElreavy - percussion
Andrew Koutroubas - strings
Keith Hebert - bass, guitar

We chose the name “Omniverse” hoping to imply our open minded approach to music as a group. Our influences are primarily based from genres rather than artists. Whatever we are feeling like, is reflected in our song writing. Ranging from techno, to traditional, Omniverse hopes to achieve it all. With four intelligent musicians skilled at their trade, Omniverse has much in the way of instrumentation at its disposal (Guitar-electric & acoustic, Bass, Cello-electric & acoustic, Drum kit, Djembe.)

Discography:
Absolution (2013)

5) Metal band based in Ukraine.

Den - drums, keyboards
Ondrej - vocals
Peter - guitars

Discography:
More to Explore EP (2014)
Repel Lament Destroy I: Repel (2015)
Repel Lament Destroy II: Lament (2016)
Repel Lament Destroy III​:​ Destroy (2018)

6) A Math-rock band based in Alabama, US.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Omniverse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.