Once I Tried Inflicted a brutal assault on the UKs underground music scene for 3 years. Bringing their metallic, yet strangely melodic sound to the stage, supporting bands such as Aconite Thrill, Days in December, Hondo Maclean, Hopesfall, Minus, Murder One and Nora. 
They formed originally in October of 2002 with Craig Skinner, Tom Garner and Toyan St Hillaire, and after rehearsing with a few different vocalists, eventually Richard Speakman and Phil Wall joined in early 2003, bringing fresh inspiration to the mixture of what at the time was much more upbeat and generic post hardcore. The new vocalists brought fresh ideas, zane, and unpredictability to the sound, yet it still maintained. 

Sadly in early 2004, Phil decided to part ways with the band but after he left the line-up, the band began to turn onto an even darker road. Richs patented grind core vocal style began to shape the bands sound even more, and the music became much more intense. The band started to develop and was becoming much more creative with their writing, as the members let their musically tastes stretch across the entire spectrum, helping them bring post modern elements into their writing sessions. 

They recorded their EP at the end of December 2004. One track in Wales, at Mighty Atom Studios, with the legendary Joe Gibb of Mighty Atom Records, and also at Shelter Studios in London with Sikth guitarist Dan Weller 

The title of the EP Our Film Like Ending was lifted from the lyrics to the final track entitled Scarecrows - Like a roll of film cut into pieces - I look back at the scattered pieces and always remember - Our film like ending which never really began. 

These lyrics are extremely relevant to the band now, because this EP really is a film like ending for the band. This EP is the bands debut release, and also the end for the band. 

After recording the EP in December 2004, the band had a new lease of life, and were exited about the prospects which they thought were to come, however after a few more months they began to drift apart from one another and during the summer months of July, with plans to travel to London in order to sign a contract for the release of the EP through Independent Label, Index Records USA, they decided to call it a day. 

But the EP will see light, instead of lying around on a replicated Memorex disk, with no intentions but to gather dust and scratches for the next however many years. 

Although they might never function as a band again, the EP will defy that fact, and the band will live on under a cult four track status. Our label believes in the potential of Once I Tried, they will fulfil their objectives with this EP, and given the right promotion. They will be heard, and heard again. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Once+I+Tried">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.