Formed as a re-incarnation of the notorious thrash metal outfit "Vengeance Rising", L.A's Once Dead boasts a refreshing dose of old school thrash metal, combined with a triple guitar assault and a lineup of seasoned musical veterans. All of the members have impressive musical resumes, with high profile acts under their belts such as Deliverance, Fasedown, Hirax, Sircle of Silence, The Blamed and The Crucified. The band was formed when Vengeance Rising members Larry Farkas and Doug Thieme along with bass player Roger Dale and drummer Glen Mancaruso did a gig at the "Summer Madness" event in August of 2004 at Chain Reaction in Anaheim, California. Appearing as guest vocalist would be none other than Scott Waters of Ultimatum. Under the threat of legal action from the absent Roger Martinez, the band quickly changed their name to "Once Dead". A DVD of this show would be recorded, and would have sustained interest, which would lead the band to a spot on the Cornerstone festival in 2005. During this time, various personnel changes were to occur, with ex-Vengeance Rising and Hirax member Glenn Rogers joining the group in January 2006, and Scott Waters leaving the front man position, to be replaced by Devin Shaeffer of Fasedown. The lineup was to be completed by ex Hirax member Angelo Espino, and Jim Chaffin on drums. In March 2007, Once Dead would be signed by Pennsylvania based Open Grave Records. In May of 2007 Larry Farkas would be announced as no longer a member of the band.

After the recording of "Visions of Hell" was completed it would be announced that Glenn Rogers was leaving Once Dead to rejoin Hirax. Along with this announcement it would also be told that Larry Farkas had rejoined Once Dead and would be adding guitar tracks to the already recorded, "Visions of Hell".

The recording of "Visions of Hell" has been completed. Open Grave Records is set to release the album in September of 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Once+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.