OnCue, real name Geoff Sarubbi, was born on April 3rd, 1989 in Connecticut. He is a rapper based out Brooklyn, New York.
He has one older brother who is five years older than him. He had a tough childhood growing up with a father who was addicted to crack and a mother who was diagnosed breast cancer. A lot of his struggles are reflected in the lyrics of his music. OnCue graduated from Newington High School and attended Central Connecticut State University and Brooklyn College before dropping out to pursue music full time.

OnCue started rapping at the age of 11 and recording music when he was 13-years-old at local studios in the Hartford area. Throughout his teenage years, OnCue focused on honing his craft and developing his sound. In 2010, OnCue moved to Brooklyn to take his rap career more seriously.
To help earn some money to get by, OnCue would create album covers for producers and other rappers. Two prominent Brooklyn he did work for were MICK and Terry Urban. One day he came up to them and showed them his bars. Impressed, they worked with OnCue, hosting several of his mixtapes including "Cueyfornication" and "Cuey Sings the Blues".
In addition, OnCue started working with producer C.J. Luzi, who he would collaborate with throughout his career. Adam Ross would direct several of his music videos to much acclaim by critics and fans.
In early 2012 after his "Leftovers" and "Can't Wait" mixtapes dropped, OnCue linked up with Just Blaze through AThe Bald God. For the next two years, they would work together and create one mixtape, "Leftovers 2", and his first album, "Angry Young Man".

Common themes in his music are about love and hardships. His family and difficult situation growing up have been a huge inspiration to his lyrics and often get very personal. He raps about the struggles he went through and overcoming them. OnCue constantly mentions his past relationships and how they affected his life. Also, many times in his music, he makes references to his dick. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ONCUE">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.