There are six bands named One Way:
1. An American disco funk band from Detroit, Michigan. Years active 1976–1988.
2. A Korean pop/hip hop group (see 원웨이)
3. A Slovakian rock band
4. A Bulgarian rap label
5. An American Christian rock band
6. A Polish hard-core band
7. An Indonesian Christian group band

1. One Way was an R&B/funk band that was popular in the late 1970s and throughout most of the 1980s. One Way was formed in 1979 in Detroit, Michigan and were originally known as Al Hudson & the Soul Partners. Al Hudson, Alicia Meyers, guitarists Dave Roberson and Cortez Harris, bassist Kevin McCord, drummer Gregory Green and keyboardist Jonathan Meadows were the original members. They first recorded as One Way featuring Al Hudson before becoming One Way.

The trio consists of Leader/vocals Chance (Michael Kim),vocals Peter (Peter Hyun) and rapper YoungSky (Choo Joon Young). They made their debut on March 6th, 2010 on MBC’s Music Core with their promotional single, Magic. Since their recent debut, they have appeared in many radio shows such as MBC Starry Night, TBS K-popular hosted by As One, TBS Music Planet hosted by J, and ARIRANG Evening Groove.

One Way is considered to be an up rising R&B group that is garnering not only attention in South Korea but also gaining International attention for composing their own music and their unique "one way sound". They posted up various covers on their official Youtube Channel such as Ne-Yo's Sexy Love and made their official debut on Youtube with their selfwritten track U-Drag, which is also featured on their first episode called One Way Street.

Peter and Young Sky first met in middle school in Sydney, Australia but later on, Young Sky moved to California where he met Chance in high school. All three members are fluent in English and Korean.

2. One Way is a contemporary South Korean R&B/Hip Hop group managed by YJ Media, also known as YJ Entertainment.

The trio consists of Leader/vocals Chance (Michael Kim),vocals Peter (Peter Hyun) and rapper YoungSky (Choo Joon Young). They made their debut on March 6th, 2010 on MBC’s Music Core with their promotional single, Magic. Since their recent debut, they have appeared in many radio shows such as MBC Starry Night, TBS K-popular hosted by As One, TBS Music Planet hosted by J, and ARIRANG Evening Groove.

One Way is considered to be an up rising R&B group that is garnering not only attention in South Korea but also gaining International attention for composing their own music and their unique "one way sound". They posted up various covers on their official Youtube Channel such as Ne-Yo's Sexy Love and made their official debut on Youtube with their selfwritten track U-Drag, which is also featured on their first episode called One Way Street.

Peter and Young Sky first met in middle school in Sydney, Australia but later on, Young Sky moved to California where he met Chance in high school. All three members are fluent in English and Korean.

3. One Way rock-pop from Bratislava - Slovakia

4. One Way founded in Bulgaria is a Rap/Hip-Hop Label.
http://www.myspace.com/owproduction

5. One Way is a Modern Christian Rock band. One Way began almost six years ago with a passion and desire for music and for writting music that expressed a Love for something greater. We have travelled most of the United States and have crossed the border into Canada. They have released 1 CD and 2 EPs. They play at small clubs/venues and churchs as well as festivals.

6. One Way hard-core band from Zywiec - Poland.
http://www.myspace.com/onewaypl

7. One Way is an Indonesian Christian group.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/One+Way">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.