There are two bands called 'One Bullet Left'. The first one is a thrash/death metal band with slight black and groove influences hailing from Balkbrug, The Netherlands.
They exist since january 2006 and have become well known in their home country during the end of 2006 and the first few months of 2007 playing many gigs throughout the whole country. Their biggest achievement so far is a spot at the Wâldrock Festival in Burgum on the 7th of July, 2007.
The band is famous for being the youngest extreme metal band from The Netherlands with a current average age of 14 years.
Despite their young age, critics give them credit for being able to play very well. Though their current songs may lack originality, many agree that they have a lot of potential.

Release:

Promo-Disc 2006

Line-up:

Yorick Woltjer (drums)
Rik Overmars (bass/vocals)
Dennis Woltjer (vocals/guitar)
Thijs Brinkhuis (guitar)


The other band called 'One Bullet Left' is a german band that exists since february 2005 and has been formed out of former members of 'Halflife', 'One egg in the backpack', 'Manstractor' and 'Dexter's Dream'. After four month, the initial four songs were ready and it was decided to visit a studio to record the first demo-CD immediatly. With the assistance of Carsten Rehmann, in June 2005 the piece of silver got produced by CKB Recordings on their own initiative.

In September 2005 came their first gig to a full BOLLEKE in Duisburg. Since then, stages were to be shared with top national and even international act, such as HATESPHERE,VOLBEAT, DRY KILL LOGIC, NARZISS,PRO PAIN, END OF DAYS, DEADSOIL, RAUNCHY, FEAR MY THOUGHTS, SIX REASONS TO KILL,ON THE LAST DAY, MACHINEMADE GOD, SCARS OF TOMORROW,ETC.

By the end of May 2006 Hatesphere front man Jacob Bredahl was brought to the guns in order to fortify themselves in the latter’s Smart’n’Hard studios in denmark. Invisible Fleshwounds, a four-track EP, finally first saw the light of day on OCTOBER 27th. Previews by various fanzines so far have been more than positive, which lets the band look into a promising future... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/One+Bullet+Left">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.