A hugely popular unsigned modern rock band from Jackson/Memphis, TN and Orlando, FL. 

With passionate music, intense vocals and songs that parallel the day-to-day issues that we all face, One Less Reason touches people in a way that fosters a fierce loyalty and connection between band and fan that is rare in music today. OLR is Cris Brown (vocals), Ryan Giles (guitar), Brad Butler (guitar), Terry Brown (bass), and Jeff Moore (drums), but it is also much bigger than any of the individual members. OLR is truly a family. The band is as devoted to their fans as their fans are to the band. With over 100,000 Myspace friends, OLR has become an internet phenomenon that process that it is possible to draw a fan from virtually every demographic. With a recent string of radio successes and sold out shows throughout the southeast and Midwest, One Less Reason is writing a story that is increasingly impossible to ignore.

One Less Reason continues to dominate the charts at alternative addition with their latest single “Seasons” which held the number one spot for a month and remained on the chart for 15 weeks. More recently, “Seasons” stirred a buzz on a national level at commercial rock radio stations around the country. Although radio spins often elude the unsigned, this act has managed to grab rotation on 102.3 in Jackson, TN. Z95 in Poplar Bluff, MO. Z98.5 Tupelo, MS and Nashville’s favorite 102.9 The Buzz to get started…

With their explosive live performance, they have captured the attention of the media and have become crowd favorites at showcases and music festivals such as FMF and Memphis in May 2010. Their consistent draw has earned them the honor of opening for acts like Shinedown, Godsmack, Hinder, Taking Back Sunday, Aaron Lewis, OneRepublic, Theory of A Deadman, and 10 Years.

In addition to heavy touring, One Less Reason’s recognition landed a licensing agreement with National Retail Powerhouse, “Buckle,” a single, “A Day to Be Alone,” featured in the file “Hero Wanted” with Cuba Gooding Jr and Ray Liotta.

Criss Brown now has a side project called "Jassepy Moses and The Vagytarians"  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/One+Less+Reason">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.