Formed in the 1996 Onedice were just a group of like minded friends that wanted to vent some aggression through our mutual love of extreme music. In a small cramped basement in Bristol (UK) Onedice was born! 

Originally a five piece they started writing a mix of hardcore, melodic, rap metal that managed to turn a few heads during early shows in their home town of Bristol. After a while they lost one of their guitar players, Darren Barratt and decided to stay as a four piece and that's when the later day Onedice started to take shape. 

They started gaining recognition within Bristol, soon the rest of the country started to catch on. Unfortunately they lost our original bass player to family commitments and that's when they found the man that was going to make the band really start to move forward as a unit,bass player Ian white. Now as a four piece with Dan Horton in charge of writing most of the riffs, Onedices direction changed dramatically. They dropped the rap element and adopted and more brutal, aggressive approach to music. 

It wasn't long before the good shows started coming their way. In the early days they played support to bands such as Napalm Death, Clutch, Psycore, Kill II This and many more local gigs. Their first tour was opening for an Italian band called Linear 77 and Lostprophets it was a real experience to be on the road doing what they loved for a longer period of time

As time moved on they had the pleasure of playing with Napalm Death again but this time on a full UK tour. All the while we are gaining positive press from most of the major metal publications, Kerrang, MetalHhammer, Rocksound etc... The touring continued with bands like American Head Charge and Sikth. 

They released their first EP, Laugh Cry Lose into the scene and got a very good response from fans and press. The next step was an album and they delivered in the form of a 9 track 21min onslaught entitled Life. The album received critical acclaim for the press, scoring 4/5 in Metal Hammer and 9/10 in Kerrang. 

They kept gigging the album for a while, playing support to Sepultura at the London Astoria with Hatebreed in the latters first ever UK show. They also supported Drowning Pool first ever UK show and a string of headline shows around the country. They had the time of our lives being part of Onedice and its sad that it had to end. 

Due to some internal matters they lost our drummer Damien Radford and tried to find a new sticks man. It didn't take long to realise that Damien as the backbone of Onedice was irreplaceable and decided to call it a day. 

Dave P. Malpass (vocals)
Dan Horton (guitar)
Ian White (bass)
Damien Radford (drums)

Laugh Cry Lose
Infernal - April 16, 2001 

Life
Infernal - December 10, 2001 

{onedice '06} <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Onedice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.