- HEAVYSTONERBLUESGROOVEROCKSLUDGEMETAL -

In a world full of musicians, home studios, bands and their respective originality, ONEGODLESS decides to bring nothing new. Since everything already has been done, and everything else won't be worth making, these brave young men decide to do something entirely different: acknowledge their total lack of cutting edge, thriving in genuine unoriginality. Without copying other bands, they proudly walk this beaten path of metal. This band makes a mixture of Metal, Rock and Blues like many bands you've heard of before, going from Pantera and Black Sabbath to Down and Black Label Society. 

To make sure there's no misunderstanding about the style of music, ONEGODLESS created their own musical genre: HEAVYSTONERBLUESGROOVEROCKSLUDGEMETAL. ONEGODLESS' heavily riff oriented music trades speed and technical prowess for groove and feel, boldly going where many bands have gone before. It is a grooving metal machine that does not stop until you're beating your head to the sound of the riffs. Metal to make you move and groove, yet staying hard and heavy.

Band mastermind Robin Zielhorst (session bass player, ex-Cynic, ex-Blue Man Group, Exivious, Our Oceans and solo artist), founded the band in 2013, and after some initial lineup changes found like-minded forces in Pieter Verpaalen (ex-Textures), Yordi Lopez (Red Eyes, 3D Monster) and Yuma van Eekelen (Exivious, ex-Pestilence). After the release of their 2014 EP "The Beaten Path", ONEGODLESS hit the studio in 2016 to record their debut album "MOURNER". Mixed by Tymon Kruidenier, this album will rock your socks off, combining the genre's typical riffs and feel with a modern yet natural sound. This album is released on June 9th 2017.

ONEGODLESS: 
Robin Zielhorst - bass  
Pieter Verpaalen - vocals  
Yordi Lopez - guitar
Yuma van Eekelen - drums

"Metal, stoner, blues and heavy-groovy rock are blended together into a ferocious-sounding mix that often reminds of bands like Down and Pantera, their swinging bluesmetal brutally pounds its way from the stereo to your ears. It is simply impossible to sit still while listening to this record." 
78/100 -Lords of Metal

"The characteristically riff-oriented rock sounds like a technical version of Pantera or a straight-forward Mastodon. Great riffs to bang your head to." 
78/100 -Metalfan

"The Dutch sons of Pantera produced a wonderfully sludgy heavystonerbluesgrooverocksludgemetal record!" 
95/100 -Rock Tribune

"Perfect for fans of seriously grooving metal bands like Lamb Of God, Pantera and Exhorder." - Aardschok <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Onegodless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.