Onheil is a Melodic Black Metal band with strong Melodic Death Metal influences from The Netherlands. On March 2007 “The New Onheil” arises. Formed by the fusion between “The Old Onheil”, a well known band in the Benelux underground with 1 MCD, and Martyr, a Melodic Black Metal band, having released 2 albums on American recordlabels.This new line-up has 3 guitarists and 2 lead vocalist giving them more possibillities to expand their own unique Blackened Metal sound.

The return started with some great live-shows, including opening for Norwegian Black Metal cult-band Mayhem and a show with Polish Death Metal Legends Vader. In the end of october of that same year Onheil released a new song, “As Hope Dies”, available on mp3 and as a self-made videoclip. This videoclip got a lot of attention on the internet making the song a small underground “hit”.

In february/march 2008 a promoCD was recorded and send to a small list of suitable recordlabels. Several labels showed their interest after receiving the promoCD and in the end Cyclone Empire from Germany was chosen to work with for their next album.

In July Onheil played at the the highly acclaimed open air festival Stonehenge with internationally known bands such as Entombed, Belphegor, Sadist and Burden Of Grief. Later that year Onheil started working on their album “Razor”.

“Razor” as finished march 2009 and released the 15nd of may. The album will be officially presented to the world the 7th of June in Baroeg, Rotterdam(NL), when playing a show with Rotting Christ from Greece. After that they will prepare themselves to do a lot of shows or maybe tour in the fall. 

History:
From the ashes of some other musical projects Onheil was originally founded in the autumn of 1999. A few successful demos lead them to the recording of their first official release, 'The Threat'. This very well received mini-cd was released in 2003 by the now deceased War Cry Productions. Unfortunately, due to not being able to find a suitable drummer for recordings, until 2006 Onheil has only been able to do live shows since then with several session drummers.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Onheil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.