There are 2 bands called Only Human. 

1) Only Human is a hard working, forward thinking, dedicated touring metal band that has been on a quest to make honest and sincere music that trancends the individuals making it. With the word spreading fast like wildfire ONLY HUMAN is quickly making some great friends with a few unique sponsors including; Glaceau Vitamin & Smart Water, The Vital Energy Center.com, EMG Pickups, Graphtech Guitar Labs, and recently joining forces with Sage Francis to help spread the word about the revolutionary web-collective KNOWMORE.org. ONLY HUMAN has shared the stage with such acts as Will Haven (Revelation Records), Cryptopsy, Cattle Decapitation, Watch Them Die (Century Media), ASESINO (Hawino Records), Apiary (Iron Clad/Metal Blade) Six Feet Under as well as many others. ONLY HUMAN has just finished and self released an epic 5 song E.P. titled "Tyranny Of Ignorance" which was recorded, mixed and co-produced by Steve Carter (HIMSA, Three Inches of Blood, Hell Promise, & Cradle of Filth). With great success on their last couple of West Coast tours ONLY HUMAN is back in the studio with a brand new line-up writing a ton of new material for the next upcoming release.

2)
Founded in a garage by two brothers and their friends in 1995. Originally a three piece playing shows around the South Bay with Deviates & 1208. The band took a hiatus while a few members went on vacation. Daniel kept the band going while his brother Simon became the drummer for Western Waste.

Then in 2006 Only Human reformed and refined their sound incorporating some of their old songs into the new lineup. Jeff joined Western Waste Band mate Simon, along with original guitarist Daniel and vocalist Matty to create "Critical Mass". While not feeling complete with one guitar, Only Human asked fellow Felony Records Artist Danny of False Alliance to record on the album and play shows for a bit......  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/only+human">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.