Onsetcold ; BIOGRAPHY, LOCATION, HISTORY & CONCEPT (In that order)

Band Members:
Shaq vocalist/composer
Craig Gamble Guitar/Bass
Daniel Baron von Naden Drums
Sarah Bloodworth Keys/vocals

Subgenres: black/death/grind

Onsetcold is a Symphonic Blackened Death/Grind metal band from Cheshire, England. Founded by Shaq in 2003 with the intentions of creating the soundtrack to the end of the world, their latest songs seem to be nearing the band's destination and concept.
Toured with Hecate Enthroned in 2006, featured on both Terrorizer and Zero Tolerance magazine CD's.
Signed to WORMHOLEDEATH/Aural to release their debut album "Onsetcold" worldwide in 2008, After taking a year off the metal scene Onsetcold came back with the most extreme epic chaotic metal that would push them even futher into the underground scene.


LOCATION:

Cheshire – England, UK.

Onsetcold are -

Shaq: Vocals/Composer
http://www.facebook.com/ShaqOnsetcold

Craig Gamble: Guitar/Bass
http://www.facebook.com/craigonsetcold

Daniel Naden: Drums
http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=854035452

Sarah Bloodworth: Keyboards/vocals
http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=1395635864

 


HISTORY

Onsetcold formed in Spring 2004 when Shaq and Mike set out to form a project that would create an epic overall sound that would have absolutely no boundaries with influences from all types of music. 

Immediately guitarist Silz was introduced and Ineal became involved after leaving his current band-mates in 'Numb,' due to musical differences. The 4 piece spent the Summer of 2004 practicing, recording and performing gigs with the self release of their first demo EP. 

There was a problem though, the music just was not heavy enough, and so in 2005 the band stepped up their music by recording more faster, intense music and incorporated live keyboards by introducing new member Farley. Then the band self released their second demo titled 'Pig' which was well received by fans in the UK on the April 2005 tour, and was categorised as death/spazzcore by one review.

During the summer of 2005 Onsetcold progressed to the next stage through writing the track 'State Of Fear.' It was a solid metal tune that came naturally and became the interest of the third demo. It served the band well and captured interest from the metal world and was put on Terrorizer's unsigned fear candy and later in Zero Tolerance's October issue. 

The natural progression was to continue to write new material and gig throughout the Winter of 2005 gaining interest from fans and media, which is exactly what happened. The band improved their profile by gigging at better venues with signed bands and received label interest. 

After recording the 6 track mini album in February 2006 (which was to be distributed on a UK label in June,) the band were not happy with the overall sound of the production and knew that something was just not right, therefore the material was never released and the tracks have all been thrown out – to start from scratch.

Soon after the band took a hit when guitarist Silz left in April 2006 for his own personal reasons. But this made way for new guitarist Ben to unleash his formidable sound on guitar. The band then began writing a new tune that is arguably the best yet, 'Masterdom!'

It has captured interest from the moment it was up on the website and myspace page which included UK black metallers Hecate Enthroned. 

As a result Onsetcold were special guests on the August tour which was a great experience for the band and has gained them a reputation for delivering an energetic, powerful and immense live show. 

The start of 2007 was well received and Onsetcold were firing on all cylinders, writing a whole new set-list and finally capturing that sound that they were waiting for. During this time, Carlo Berlotti from UK Division Records approached the band after hearing 'Masterdom.' Within a month Onsetcold signed a deal for the recording and distribution of the debut album. The recording materialised in August 2007 when the band headed for the studio in Bologna, Italy to record and mix the debut album in three weeks with the team that Carlo had organised. The self titled album is due for worldwide release in Feb 2008.(TO BE UPDATED)


MEANING

Onset – Beginning, start of, commencement, launch, inception, creation.

Cold – Bitter, bleak, perish, raw, subdued, fear. 

As the dictionary extracts shown above define the two separate words onset & cold, our intended meaning of Onsetcold is the inception of total breakdown, fear and anxiety. 

Simply put, it is the beginning of the end, it is past all of the fire, anger and rage to when there is nothing left to burn on earth and the natural progression is for all lifeforms to shut down as the deadly cold sets in. 

Emptiness, defenceless, nothing, the end.   


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Onsetcold">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.