1) Ooze is the downtempo and chillout project of Sebastian Mullaert, half of one of the major acts in electronic dancefloor music in the last decade, Minilogue, and also half of the leading progressive trance act Son Kite. 

Besides the above mentioned projects, he also releases under his own name and was part of many other electronic music projects including IMPS, Dab Screen, Filur, Kooler, Trimatic & Qlap, releasing in many leading labels, among them: Cocoon Records, Mule Electronic, Iboga Records, Digital Structures, Chillosophy, Traum Schallplatten, Baroque Records, Crosstown Rebels, Wagon Repair, Sprout Music, Enemy Records, Flying Rhino, Spirit Zone & Drangofly.

2) From the left-over amino acids of BILE come OOZE. X-BILE electronic drummer Omen sequencing, sampling, and sacrificing the techno-industrial-artcore conglomerate known as OOZE. Omen wrote, played and performed on BILE releases Suckpump and Teknowhore (Energy Records), and the band contributed a song for the Mortal Kombat soundtrack. After touring with Marilyn Manson, Type O Negative and GWAR, Omen felt the need to be more experimental in the Rave, Hip-Hop, SFX categories. 
OOZE was originally blueprinted back in '92 as Nuclear Rainbow, a post apocalyptic performance art piece conceived during the pre-BILE days. Joined by X-BILE member Phantom on guitar, and the beautiful vocal vixen Sabrina View, they hit the scene like a Mack truck. With the destruction of the Twin Towers, we are realizing a nuclear attack may be conceivable. OOZE fittingly attacks the stage with their electro assault as if the apocalypse is here and they are the radioactive hot outer plume of the Mushroom cloud. Songs such as My Side, Riot on the Runway and Jim's Radioactive Beat Box offer messages of both deconstruction and reconstruction. OOZE uses many New York styles of Breakbeat to spice up their industrial genre, skipping over the standard grind march that so many bands have beat to death. 

OOZE had two EP's under their filthy belt, Spawned from the Tip Of Satan's Dick and Astroglide and toured the U.S. with SLICK IDIOT, featuring Guenter Schulz and En Esch from KMFDM in 2002. 

After shlepping around New York City and the east coast for what seemed like an eternity, Omen packed up the junk truck in the summer of 2003 and headed out West to infiltrate and infatuate the Golden State of CA with its unhinged techno terror. A west coast tour-ching is being blueprinted for the upcoming months. As always, OOZE continues to demonstrate beyond a shadow of a doubt that there is no ending that does not revert to a beginning: 

Ground Zero, start over...See you in the hereafter! 

2006: OOZE completed working on a techno-traumatizing, riot-inducing full length debut where no sanity or soul is to be spared entitled Ethnic Panic Attacks, a Limited Edition 10 panel Digi-Pack that features a custom cross construction, special artwork design and printing and a collectible tarot card sticker to commemorate the late Sabrina View. 

OOZE were featured on public access music buzz shows and have won several "Rockies" with the Rock City Awards for Outstanding Industrial Electro band and other member categories in Hollywood CA both in 2005 and 2006. They also released a track on Lost Anarchy compilation Vol 1. 

2007: In August, OOZE appeared at Burning Man at the Thunderdome "Dome Stage" in the Nevada desert in the same month, with a few selective appearances in the West coast U.S. thereafter. The new OOZE website was re-launched in October. They also released two more songs via Lost Anarchy compilations 2 & 3. 

2008: OOZE are currently in the studio writing their new followup release to EPA, touring the West coast U.S., receiving publishing placements in TV and movies, and press in Wonka Vision Magazine and Lost Anarchy Magazine. Our guitarist, Mortuary, also toured in the U.S. and Europe with London After Midnight, and played on stage at The Key Club in Hollywood with The GenitorturersVideo shoots for COOTIE POOL video scheduled. 

2009: OOZE will release new music video COOTIE POOL on Havoc TV, MySpace, and YouTube. Plans to release new album, and tour the U.S. and Europe in the works. 

Taken from - www.myspace.com/oozebyomen


3) Ooze is a hardcore punk band from the Chicago-area, superior to those with whom they share the name. They are mysterious freaqs who recently transmuted into the next sexdimension and discovered da sacred slimemold rocklitides and exploded into pure energy.

4) Ooze is a sludge/doom band from Trieste, Italy. They released a self titled album in 2014.

5) Ooze is an underground doom metal band from Vasylkiv, Ukraine. Their releases (as of June 2021): Shivers EP (2020), Cableway EP (2019) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/OoZe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.