Facebook
Bandcamp
Formed In: November 2009
Hometown Location: New York, NY
Genre: Progressive Death Metal/Experimental/Symphonic/Jazz

Band Lineup:
Stephen Kain > Lead Vocals & Keyboards
Craig 'Blitz krieg' Storer > Lead Guitar & Vocals
Chris 'Chrizzle' Cedeno > Rhythm Guitar
Bill Angelini > Drums

Mundo Rock Webzine - Chile
"Among all the possibilities now can offer the death metal at its most technical and still worked that variant that incorporates progressive elements which is certainly more today continue to contribute to this stream something to keep calling the attention between more radical followers of metal. Meanwhile, Open Denile is a band that manages to settle back in 2008 in New York, so before long get as editing an interesting EP was "Desecration in Numbers" in 2010. The vision they had with Open Denile was almost lying on its base so that it remained to start throwing lines to go ahead and get to what would be their debut album, in which all tastes reflected as the metal complex and high technical quality. They are today among the four musicians who have the lead vocalist and keyboardist Stephen Kain, lead guitarist Craig 'Blitz Krieg' Storer (also vocals), in charge of rhythmic Chris 'Chrizzle' Cedeno, plus drummer Bill Angelini. 

Within this band I imagine it must be more clear about the movie that today there are many alternatives to try to sound original, especially in a genre like metal where almost everything and everywhere seems to have been done and touched otherwise. For the same reason, to compose this work I imagine that Stephen Kain have put all of himself,   and his brief experience as musicians (in fact the latter could be considered the most experienced after passing through the progressive band Forever's Edge with whom reached to edit an interesting work in 2010 and then get out and start working with Open Denile) to try to compose an album but innovative at least 100% yes 100% honest alternative to many other bands that keep popping up every so often. Clearly what is ascribed to them this power from time to time appear triumphant and where the odd name of great value (to give listings if this page have been circulating for several of them), so it only remains to start commenting the many kindnesses that contains this board. 

The vocal work of Stephen Kain at least immediately leaves the right feeling of being immersed in the most brutal level that is possible to develop this a guttural at high level, not waste time (except in specific time as in "Perish" ) in as many games achieve clean-brutal vocals, something that goes unchecking the style of other bands. The music of these Open Denile also meets all expectations of its kind, having all that constant range and tessitura elements, musical breaks, surprising outbursts of blastbeats, and most enveloping melodies that are gaining in excitement and as the minutes pass epicismo . After an intro very flying space and electronic sections starts with a furious riff, very concentrated and heavy as is "Vivid Degradation" transforming the opener in a remarkable performance when these variables instrumental guitar moments reminiscent of bands like Opeth or Death but adding all that atmospheric air is achieved thanks to the contribution of the keyboards. "Pathogen Eradication" aportilla immediately with some blast beats really emaciated by Angellini even when Cedeno riffs Storer and begin to descend into the underworld more progressive speed also is leaving the spotlight to those more focused and bombastic riffs that come nothing wrong.     

There are many elements with which this young American band goes argued his musical ideas, and for example in instrumental cut as "An Absolute Memory" everything sounds great position in his seat, but you never would imagine that this is a band of Progressive death, and you might even pass as a song written by Steve Vai. Curious no? But surely that's why after we have a "Blessed" to recover with that figure almost symphonic death metal and ambient at times where clean vocals also appear Kain at least in the chorus, but on an issue predominantly riffs brutal essentially leaving for closing piece is ultra crazy as "Immortalized in Denile" reminds us that technical death metal ultra Sylosys or people like Veil of Maya when these outbursts choose technical and synchronized savagery. A bandaza who have made ​​great shape to be an independent work. Insurance for their next album this will not remain the same. Details and info in https://www.facebook.com/OpenDenile1 and in http://www.myspace.com/opendenile."




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Open+Denile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.