There are two music projects named Opera

1. The Polish new wave band. It was founded in 1986 by the musicians of well-known polish group Republika and the vocalist Robert Gawliński (currently leader of popular polish band Wilki). They recorded only one album, then the band was dissolved.

2. French band created in 2005. Although Opera's music is often referred to as electro, their form of electronic music really owes more to the early synthesizer sounds of the 1970s and 1980's such as Italian horror movies composer Claudio Simonetti, Disco mentors Bobby O & Patrick Cowley and French composers Francis Lai, Michel Colombier & Michel Legrand. Other influences are psychedelic synth disco glam rock pioneers such as Goblin and Tangerine Dream. From their musical tastes and references, they created their own modern synth disco rock universe tainted with decadent and visual performances. The sensitive musicians use many of their studio instruments (like Korg synthesizers MS20, Polysix Roland SH09 and Vocoder) live on stage to make people dance with a very stylish pop electro music . Electrosexual produces a strong rythm adding analogic basslines while Abberline puts a touch of lyrical harmony with classical lines of strings & synths. Making their great debut last year at the amazing Londons Computer Blue Hanky Panky & Whatever parties (supported by Blitz Kids Princess Julia and Punx Soundcheck DJ sets), and excentrics Berlins Blood Fest & Plastique underground parties hosted by New York, electro lovergirl Dahlia, Opera presented a brand new set this year at Madame Jojos Electrogogo (supported by Mark SExpress Moore & Lene Lovich), La Scene Bastille in Paris with DJ Wild (Get Physical) and at the legendar Bus Palladium for a wild party with The dead sexy Inc. Opera started composing brand new material, collaborating with Hong Kong Counterfeit on 2 brand new tracks for a forthcoming EP .
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Opera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.