August, 28th 2006 OPHIURA is born, formerly known as O.D.U (which was formed in 2002). Gianluca and Alex created O.D.U, a five-piece band fronted by a femal voice and inspired mainly by Queen and Evanescence, with the intention to compose original songs sung in Italian. Due to various line-up changes (particularly after Gaia’s departure) the band went through various artistic mutations suggested by the musical tastes of the remaining members. During this period there is the significant arrival of Tommaso in the band, as guitar player. In Winter 2005/2006, after another line-up change, Anna (vocals) and Francesco (bass) join the band. The peculiarities of the new elements allow the band to change towards a more “gothic metal” edge, inspired by artists as Nightwish, After Forever, Within Temptation. Founding member and drummer Gianluca’s departure marked a new chapter in the band’s history so, after the arrival of new drummer Simone, O.D.U need to start anew and they eventually decide to change the name. August, 28th 2006: O.D.U officially become OPHIURA. The band starts playing again their old original compositions, still using italian lyrics, but with slightly altered arrangements. The band faces difficult times, and in February 2007, just one week before entering the studio to record their EP “Ancestral Whispers”, Francesco quits the band for personal reasons and Anna is sent away due to irrimediable contrasts. Three days before recording sessions, Matteo (bass) and Igor (keybords) join OPHIURA, while Alex takes the vocal lead, in addiction to playing guitar. The five guys head for Lucca and record their EP in Frank Andiver’s Zenith Studios, featuring a metal rearrangement of the old compositions and English lyrics. Summer of 2007 witnesses the return of the band onstage: thanks to the Net and to the very good studio recordings, their name starts getting known amongst emerging bands, collecting many positive reviews, also due to their various live performances where the boys impress the audience with visual make-ups and their musical abilities. A special mention goes to their victory of the “Suoni dallo Spazio Giovani” contest in Copparo, allowing the band to partecipate to the contest “ Bande Rumorose” in Copparo without further selections and their appearance to the finals of the “Music Art 2007” contest in Cento. The “Ancestral Whispers” EP gets reviewed by many national and international web-zines. From November 2007 the band will be managed by Alkemist Fanatix Europe, hoping in a working relationship that will bring the achievement of all the band’s goals and dreams.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ophiura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.