There are few artists to go under the name of Opiate

1. The most well know being Thomas Knak who lives and works in Copenhagen, Denmark.
He produces and remixes as Opiate on labels such as Sprawl Imprint, April Records, Sony, One little Indian, Vertical Form, City-Centre Offices, Raster-Noton, Earth Tones and Morr Music. Thomas is also part of Future 3 (3 albums and 2 EPs on April Records) and System (1 album on Scape).
Opiate has collaborated with Alva Noto on the OPTO files albums (autumn 2001 and late summer 2003) and with Björk on Cocoon and Undo (both taken from her Vespertine album of 2001). Records solo as Opiate, Gloria Hirsch and Thomas Knak.
Thomas has also produced commercial music for various tv and radio programmes, and for companies such as Nike, Innovation and Dornbracht. He has also been invited to write and produce for various plays and dance pieces and wrote and produced the music for the Danish feature film "Reconstruction", which won two prizes at Cannes Film Festival 2003.

2. Opiate is a technical metal (mix of djent, math metal and some other progressive elements) quintet band from Copenhagen, Denmark.  They released first EP "Refflection" on  2011. At the end 2012 - beginning 2013 they release 2 new songs.
Band Members:
Anders Høst - Vocals; Martin Hastrup - Guitar; Jacob Andersen-Usaj - Guitar; Thomas Lausen - Bass; Erik Olsson - Drums.
More info: The Copenhagen quintet Opiate was formed in 2010 and consists of vocalist Anders Høst, drummer Erik R. Olsson, bassist Thomas Lausen and guitarists Jacob Andersen-Usaj and Martin Hastrup. The band delivers a technical and progressive take on the metal genre combining powerful grooves, soaring melodies and expansive atmospheres. Their critically acclaimed EP ”Reflection” from 2011 started of their journey, and the following developments have shown an undeniable potential that speaks of a promising future. The guys deliver original, powerful music with an energetic live show, which should be experienced right in front of the stage.

3. A british band from Carlisle who (as far as I know) released a demo titled What Went Wrong on the Visible Noises Sampler named Subverse and in 2002 released their debut full length entitled Distinctive Smile.

4. A noise group from Toronto, Ontario. Free track available on bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Opiate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.