There are multiple artists named Opium: 
1) Italian ambient project by Matteo Zini. 
2) Indonesian brutal death metal band. 
3) Russian-Israeli synthpop band. 
4) Dutch rapper. 
5) Finnish rock band. 
6) Belgium female pop band. 
7) English female vocalist and songwriter. 
8) German trance / house project. 
9) British techno / trance band. 
10) British trip-hop project. 
11) Welsh rock band. 
12) Finnish side project of Pyhimys, OP Beats and Juulia.
13) French dark electro group.

Detailed biographies:

1) Opium is an Italian ambient project created by Matteo Zini (born in Bollate, Lombardy, Italy on 22 February 1979). He currently lives in Varese, after living for many years in Novate Milanese. His love for electronic music began when he was 15. His first experiments were created with the soundcards of his first personal home computer.
With the Opium nickname Teo began his adventure in electronic music. His sound moves between different influences: ambient external recordings, beats - ethnic or pure electronics, synthesizers, stretched waves, arcane voices.  All these components are elaborated through audio softwares 'till reaching simple and complex stratifications of drones, pads, textures and sound extensions. He founded the project Sola Translatio with Alio Die.

2) Opium is a brutal death metal from Bandung, Indonesia. The band was formed in early 2007 with the line-up Fajar (vocals), Tony (guitar), Arief (drums), Yorghi (bass). Opium launched promo song with the title "Bingkai Mayat Membusuk", "Propaganda Religion", etc. The latest line-up is Fajar (vocals) Tony (guitar) Chandra (bass) and Arief (drums). This line-up continue to survive until now. Official Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/opiumgrind

3) Opium is a synthpop band. Opium's history begins in 1987, when Mirostlav Tkatchenko, along with Iliya Ivanov formed a synth duo in Vladivostok, Russia called Cold Relations. At that time they knew about another synth duo which existed, "Depesha", whose members were - Evgeny Maximov (Max) and Yura Eliseev (Vas). They united in 1990 under the guidance of Leonid Burlakov (Leo) - who then became the producer of the new project Opium. 
Mirostlav, Iliya and Max released an album called "Art", which was synthpop music sung in Russian. Stage performances followed and a few self-titled singles were released. 
In 1993 Mirostlav moved to Israel where he met Liav Shemesh who had the same musical preferences and started cooparating with him on new songs for the band, this time-in English... In order for the vocals to be recorded, Iliya flew from his home town on Russia to the warm city Natanya in Israel, and in the summer of 2001, 11 demos were recorded in "Fire Studios".

4) Opium is a rapper from the Netherlands, released the EP "O's Blok".

5) Opium is a Finnish rock band formed around early 1980s in Espoo, Finland, which fused Finnish melancholy with catchy rock melodies. Opium's hit number one is Syylliset, which soon in 1981 became very popular from PROPAGANDA EP. It is very well asked for item among the record-collectors. From album the guitarist Pasi Bastard Huopalainen is from earlier Pelle Miljoona & N.U.S. and later Rudi & Jussi Kettu. It was as well the debut by Jussi Kettu as a bass player on album.

11) Opium are a rock band from South Wales, UK, who released an EP titled "The Last Days of Disco". They since changed their to Covergirl.

13) Opium is a French dark electro/electro-industrial group that has been active since 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Opium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.