OPPOSITE EARTH were a progressive metal band well ahead of their time, as even a few publications that reviewed the album upon its initial release dubbed it "Cyber Metal".



OE blended elements from Dream Theater, Rush, Metallica, Sabbath and Tool (unusual for the time) to create a gloomy, spacy, crunchy, and, complex style of metal all their own.  If you jump ahead a few years ("Headspace" was issued in September of 1997 in the US through Progressive Arts Music & InsideOut Music in Europe) and you hear bands such as Dream Theater, Fates Warning, Threshold and others now blending doomy grooves a phrygian styled riffs/melodies into their music, elements that much of the prog-metal community could not stomach at the time.



Below is the original bio from when promos of this album first went out in 1997:



How does one separate themselves from the sameness of today's hard music scene?  The answer is quite clear.  Combine the accessible complexities of Rush and Dream Theater with the solid riff - oriented groove of Metallica.  Then add the lethargic doominess of Sabbath and the heavy psychadelia of Soundgarden and Tool.  What you come up with is the aggressive / progressive sounds of OPPOSITE EARTH.



OPPOSITE EARTH is an aggressive, yet melodic hard music act hailing from the Tampa Bay area of Florida. The five members of OPPOSITE EARTH (Steven Vincent - Vocals / Gary Schemnitzer - Guitars / Mike Stanfield - Bass / Joe Lopez - Drums / Rick Risberg - Keyboards) have successfully integrated mystical eastern melodies, powerful guitars and masterful keyboards with intellectually oriented lyrics.  Combined this creates a plethora of powerful, textured and structurally complex songs, while never losing their metallic bite.



Prior to the bands signing with the Progressive Arts Music label, OPPOSITE EARTH released two heavily circulated and highly praised E.P.'s.,  "OMED" and "VISUALS".  Extremely positive reviews of these releases appeared in many top publications worldwide, including METAL MANIACS (U.S.), HEAVY ODER WAS!?, ROCK HARD and METAL HAMMER (Germany) and BURRN! (Japan).  In addition to the great press, "VISUALS" was named "Demo of the Year" by Heavy Oder Was!?, "Demo of the Month" by Metal Hammer and "Best New Release" at the Tampa Bay Music Awards, where OPPOSITE EARTH capped off the festivities by delivering one of their trademark blistering live performances.



With the release of their debut album HEADSPACE, OPPOSITE EARTH has ascended to the next level of musical evolution by combining a sense of Phrygian Modality and Middle Eastern melodies with chopping power grooves and great melodic sense.  HEADSPACE shows the bands evolution toward a more focused, groove oriented approach, while maintaing the Heavy / Progressive elements of their earlier releases.



HEADSPACE was recorded at the legendary Morrisound Recording Studio in Tampa, Florida and marks the third time that OPPOSITE EARTH has collaborated with renown producer Tom Morris, who has worked with many diverse acts ranging from Crimson Glory, Iced Earth and Kreator to Warrant and Seven Mary Three.



From the opening doom - tinged track "Always Now" to the epic closer "Cycles", OPPOSITE EARTH slowly drags you into their world.  The world of Aggressive / Progressive; THE NEW ALTERNATIVE. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Opposite+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.