There are several bands/artists with the name Optic:

1) Optic is a Melbourne based musically adventurous band which explores a range of rock and metal sounds with female lead vocals, and members hailing from diverse musical background in classical training, musical theatre and more, the band has been fine tuning its dark and vibrant sound for over 5 years.

Initially using the name Lucid Falls, the band played the local Melbourne scene during 2004 and 2005, before withdrawing in 2006 to undergo some creative changes. Working with producer Lee Cheney, the band created the album Stimulus : Response. 

Optic's music runs a wide emotional gamut whilst retaining a readily identifiable sound. They have been likened to A Perfect Circle, The Butterfly Effect, and Cog. Progressive and post-rock influences seep through the unconventional structures and riffs. The sound is always intriguing, powerful, and accessible.

Pia Interlandi (vocals)
James Dalmau (guitar)
Michael Glen (bass)
Peter Agrotis (percussion)

2) Optic was an acidjazz / funkjazz former artist of the now defunct "Theralite" free music publishing label.

3) Optic was a recording project of NYC electronic musician Wai Cheng, who also operated Isolate Records.

4) Optic is a Long Island, New York based Progressive Metal band. As one of the few progressive bands on Long Island, Optic strives to maintain a level of musical integrity, both for ourselves, and for our audience. The band originated between Ryan and Scott in college, two freshmen eager to break free of the limitations of the Long Island music scene. What happened was an explosion of creativity. Through channels of friends, Steve, at first skeptical, became fully immersed in the band in 2008. The trio became close friends and came to write 2 hours worth of material together before the following year. In the summer of 2009 Mike joined the band on bass. After a long search for a vocalist, Kenny, a long time friend of Optic, joined the band in the summer of 2011, completing the lineup. 

With 2 albums almost completely written, and a third on the way, Optic will make its mark. We pride ourselves on not compromising for anyone's expectations, and write music from our deepest, and often darkest emotions. Our music is honest expression, whether it contains hope, depression, relief, or excitement; prepare yourself for an emotional journey unprecedented by our contemporaries.

https://www.facebook.com/Opticbandus

5) Optic is an electronic act from Sweden, formed by Marc von Melen and Pontus Wiking in the beginning of 2007. Initially, the band was considered more of a temporary no-name project with no other intentions than occasionally meet up, have a few beers and write a song or two. However, only a year later they felt more inspired than ever and decided to start working more focused and goal-oriented. Now, with a much clearer idea regarding sound, feel and….name.

Spring 2009 Optic released their debut album “Sunset Noir” on their own independent record label “United Machine Records”, followed by the single “Inside”. In 2011 they started working on new material for the forthcoming EP “Killing the Brave”, to be released in March, 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Optic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.