Oracle is the name of several artists including a well-respected progressive/power metal band formed in the 1980's and Indonesian well-respected thrash metal band..

1.) '''Oracle''' was notable as a collaborative musical venture between Minimal Compact's Malka Spigel & Samy Birnbach and Wire's Colin Newman. The project spanned the years 1988-1993 and mostly took place in  Brussels. Ony one album '''Tree''' was released retrospectively (in 1994) on Colin & Malka's Swim ~ label. The majority of the work remains unreleased.

There was another Florida band called Oracle who managed to release one album in the early nineties, solidly rooted in 80's American power metal in mold of Liege Lord or early Queensryche. Hardly a popular style of music at the time, particularly in the US (hence the release on a European label), As Darkness Reigns is a fine album for the genre.
Brothers Kent and Brent Smedley have recently resurrected Oracle and are playing again, now under the name Odyssey. Brent also plays for a band called Tempest Reign.

2.) ORACLE (Indonesia Thrash metal band) was formed in 1999 as experimental process in music, by combining the current trend at that time such as industrial metal with other metal musical styles such as progressive and thrash. This in turned produced a unique sound that would become ORACLE sound. Founding members Mahendra a.k.a Vamp Shiver (Drums, Loops, SFX) and Jimmy a.k.a Zeitgeist (Guitar, SFX).

"Warna dan Dimensi" (Color and Dimension) the title of the first album. This album contains a mixture of Insdustrial metal and Thrash metal. ORACLE invited some talented musicians to help Emil a.k.a Demonic Darkstar on vocal, Wiwin on Bass, Andre on Keyboard and Nao on vocal. Due to difficulty of commiting the band, we were separated by time and situation.

In 2004, ORACLE was reunited and pursues in pure metal. The line up was Demonic Darkstar on vocal, Vamp Shiver on drum, Zeitgeist on guitar, Wisnu a.k.a Damien 666 on guitar. Marcell a.k.a Demon Horn from GETAH helped ORACLE to fill in the bass player position. After awhile, ORACLE found Bayu a.k.a Azrael to jumped aboard as a permanent bass player.

In 2006, Demonic Darkstar left the band and replaced by Troy a.k.a Balthazar on vocal. With Balthazar, ORACLE found their identity in their music. ORACLE focus on Thrash Metal genre after a long transformation of identity searching. We just release the new EP called "Judging The Sleepers" which contains Thrash Metal.

Currently, ORACLE has just released their new Thrash Metal album called "No Truth, No Justice"

Line-up:
Troy - vocals
Wisnu - guitars
Jimmy - guitars
Bayu - bass
Mahendra - drums

http://www.metal-archives.com/release.php?id=282392
http://www.oraclemyth.com/
http://www.myspace.com/oraclemyth

3.) Oracle was a band originally formed in Cincinatti, OH by high school friends.  After graduating from high school, the original members, Rich Lodge (lead vocals and original drummer), Kyle Lichey (rhythm guitar), and Brandon Etter (bass), went onto different colleges, but essentially relocating to Columbus, OH to attend The Ohio State University.  While at OSU, they revamped their sound as well as their lineup and added Chuck Darling (lead guitar) and Kevin Brosch (drums).

The 3 original members released a demo album entitled "The Orange Couch" before moving to Columbus.  In 2002, after adding the last 2 members, they released a 12 song EP entitled "Naked" with a few rewritten songs from "The Orange Couch."

Even after a couple of personel changes, the band continued to play shows and promote themselves.  But with time becoming limited to practice and play, the band split up in 2005.  Each has gone on to pursue different careers after receiving degrees from The Ohio State University.

4.) Another Floridian, now Alabaman, Scott Boss, named his one-man-project Oracle. His particular style of driving guitars and searching voice has garnered some attention from the local scenes in both states.

5) Biography:

Oracle were formed by Mike (Pony) Hewtson and Alex Petrosing from Milan, Italy in October 1998. 
Mike was originally the keyboard player for Galahad back in the late 1980's, and following this several other very abstract progressive rock bands.
Alex had moved from Milan to England in 1996 after growing up busking in the streets of Milan, playing blues.

Recording sessions began in October of 1998, Mike and Alex having a big respect for Hawkwind, as the first Oracle recordings testify.
Mike's influences are obviously: Genesis, Yes, E.L.P, Ozric Tentacles, Hawkwind and with some thrash metal injected into 'the mix' in the form of Obituary!
Alex was influenced by: heavy rock, blues and Hawkwind.

The first album-Segreto del Cosmos was released during 1999. A close friend of Alex, John Tarella, also Italian joined Oracle on guitar/vocals.
A second album 'Horizons' was recorded during Autumn/Winter 1999.

Horizons was finally released in late 2000-2001 and Vicky (Tori) C on flute joined the band, with Mike (Smoke) Eyears on rhythm guitar.
Recording sessions for the album 'Tides of Eternity' ran from April 2000 to summer 2001, the album finally being released in summer 2002.

On the 8th September 2001 Oracle first performed 'live' at a 'garden gig' in Somerford, Christchurch.
A selection of Oracle/Hawkwind songs were played in the one and a half hr set.

Into 2002 Pony decided to cover a lot more Hawkwind material and the band played another four local gigs in Bournmouth.
Many 'live' Oracle sessions were recorded in their studio (Toadstool).

In April 2002 a new guitarist Martin (Golly) Clayton (formerly of 'The Moonies') joined.
Alex had left to follow his dream of playing blues rock.

2003-Oracle recorded a Hawkwind cover album named 'SpaceHawks'.
Then more live appearances in Poole and Bournmouth and another Oracle studio album-'Globemaster', including a 26 minute epic-'Wings of the Dawn'.

2004-In this year Pony decided to spend a lot more time on composition, so no live Oracle gigs this year.
The album 'As Above So Below' was recorded and the music had really progressed with the new Oracle songs.
Included was a new version of 'Into the Deep' which was the first track off the 'Segreto' album penned by Hewetson/Petrosino.

2005-Another 'strong' and 'heavier' than before album 'Time of the Seeker' was released, including the Hawkwind classic 'The Psychedelic Warlords'.
One live performance was captured at 'The Gander on the Green' in Bournmouth on November 5th.

(Note from the webmaster:-the gig was as explosive as 'fawks' night and hopefully I'll be able to include a video clip here.)

2006-In January Oracle played another local venue-the green room, ('The Portman') playing a selection of songs from most of the albums. A live double album has been recorded in 2005/6 and will be released later in the year.

Mike (Pony) 17/07/06

6) Oracle is a project of Portland, Oregon musicians: actress Orianna Herrman (vocals and writing), her brother Michael Herrman (guitar) and Keith Schreiner (beat box).

7) The best Oracle is now on this jawn. Nataraja Da Nada is the name of their hit factory. 2 long sides of scuzzed out biker excellence.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Oracle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.