Order of the Ebon Hand was formed in Greece in August, 1994 by Merkaal (Nocternity) on vocals / bass and Lorthar on guitars. Their mission was to create orthodox black metal. Lethe (Septic Flesh, Thou Art Lord, Horrified and Necromantia) joined shortly after, handling drums and keyboards. The order was now complete.

The band's first recorded song, The Skull, appeared on the Greek metal compilation Warzone 4, issued by Metal Invader magazine in 1996. Soon after, Metal Hammer magazine included the song, Stormlords, on Hammer Holocaust 3 that same year. Due to this exposure, the band is offered a recording contract by the Greek record label, Hypervosa Records. 1997 saw the release of the all Greek Bathory tribute album Hellas Salutes the Vikings through Metal Invader magazine. Order of the Ebon Hand's cover of A Fine Day to Die was included on this tribute.

Their debut on Hypervosa Records, The Mystic Path to the Netherworld, was released in December 1997. That year, the band was named "Most promising Greek band" by the readers of Metal Invader magazine.

The end of 1998 saw the completion of a new album entitled Avatar Trinity but it was soon shelved due to the folding of Hypervosa Records as well as personal differences and disputes within the band. Obligatory Greek military service led to the temporary hiatus of the band until 2001.

The reformation in 2001 saw the band focusing deeper on the blackened veins of occult mysticism. The musical direction of hyper speed black metal with Norwegian, death and darkwave influences soon sets them apart from the mostly uninspired, unoriginal and oversaturated black metal scene. Each forthcoming record is planned to have a concept inspired by the arcane symbolism behind each of the Tarot cards! Lorthar soon departs and is replaced by Asmodey who is chosen for his technique, versatility, speed, recording skills and general musicianship. During the recording process, Chris of Chaostar/Septic Flesh and Sotiris of Septic Flesh participate as session musicians. Classical pieces and guitar leads are added by these session musicians thus giving the band an even sharper edge.

In the meantime, Black Lotus Records asks the band to contribute to the Celtic Frost tribute album, Circle of the Tyrants alongside such respected bands as Akercocke, Melechesh, Marduk and Dimmu Borgir. Their cover of Rex Irae includes Natalie Rasoulis (Septic Flesh). Asmoday switches from his nickname to his ritual name, Phlaigon.

After several label offers, the band sign with French extreme label, Season of Mist, and the band's newest work, XV: The Devil, is released in January 2005. This black metal piece is named after the 15th Tarot card, an icon that connects ideological extremes with physical prowess that can devour a person if wholly given to them, rather than tame them. The music herein can be considered orthodox black metal but it also journeys through various unexplored fields, with occult - yet cinematographic atmospheres.

Order of the Ebon Hand already presented their new work successfully when opening for Therion @ Rodon, Greece's largest and most classic indoors venue. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Order+Of+The+Ebon+Hand">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.