Origam is a power / thrash metal band formed in 2005 in Ankara, Turkey. 

In March 2006, band bass guitarist Ali stated that he could not spare sufficient time for the band because of his academic career and decided to leave the band. He was replaced by Anil as the bass guitarist. With this line-up, the band showed up in a charity concert along with bands such as Soul Sacrifice, Catafalque on April 2, 2006 in Eskisehir Hayal Café del Mar. They took the stage with essential metal bands of the Turkish Republic in Pentagram Icon night, organized to honor Pentagram on June 2, 2006 in Istanbul Studio Live.

In September 2006, the band recorded and released their first composition “End of the Game” in Mars Studios. Receiving quite positive criticism, the band succeeded to be among the 5 bands selected in composition contest organized by world famous microphone brand Shure. The band had to part its way with drummer Kemal and guitarist Tayfun due to musical disputes after the concert given in Sakl--kent within Ankarock 2006 organization. Later, Fahri as guitarist and Mert as the drummer joined the band.

With this line-up, the band started to play regularly on Tuesdays in Yolcu Rock Bar, in January 2007. The program lasted for nearly 3 months and meanwhile the band performed concerts in Istanbul Dorock Bar, Konya Geçit Rock Bar and Ankara Baskent University. The band, succeeding to be at regional finals again with their song “End of the Game” in Sony Ericsson Unistar contest organized in May, later had to part its way with drummer Mert and bass guitarist Anil. Drummer Hakan from bands Unadorned and Phronesis joined the band.

Starting to record their demo in June, the band has been the guest to the program Backstage in Radio METU on July 19. 3 days after the program, on July 22, they released their 4 song demo End of the Game, after their first song.

Currently working on new songs, the band aims to release a pretentious and high quality album. 

Band Members:

Murat Zumrut - Vocals
Serkan Eles - Guitar
Fahri Gok - Guitar
Durmus Kızak - Bass
Mustafa Hatip - Drums


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Origam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.