The idea of the band has formed in the mind of David Piotrowicz and Jean-Michel Parmentier in 2006. They had the intention to create a various Metal project provided with rich orchestrations, and highly influenced by classical music, essentially baroque and romantic, but also by theme musics. Then, after having agreed with the name “Orion's Night” and after having done some musicians' researches, they gathered a line-up consisted of Laurent Rasir in the vocals, of Alekseï Makarov in the first guitar and of Gilles Hermans in the second guitar, besides David in synths and Jean-Michel on the drums. The theme of the group turns mainly around the dreams, the imagination, as well as around the mythology and the spirituality (two themes related to the first ones), what fits perfectly to the envisaged musical direction!

After some concerts with this line-up, diverse internal problems appeared, and the original duo met alone in July, 2008. Nevertheless, new musicians were recruited in September of the same year, in spite of the fact that the requirements, both at the level of the technical skills and the human affinities, were rather high. The musicians in question are Alex Stap in the guitar and Olivier Putz in the vocals. But always neither second guitarist nor bass player in sight! For that purpose, it will have needed to wait in April, 2009 to find Lionel Delmay in the second guitar, and in July of the same year to meet finally whole with Innok Gritskevitch in the bass, that is one year after the dissolution of the first line-up.
Every musician results from a rather different musical world which, while remaining mainly Metal, brew styles going of the Hard Rock of the 70s to the most unchained Grindcore, by way of Heavy, Black, Death, Post-Rock, Doom, etc. And naturally, the classical music, which has a dominant place in the compositions. Privileging the quality to the quantity, groups them take its time to elaborate the most accomplished possible songs, both at the level of the concepts and the harmony as well as the structure.

Orion's Night really wishes to touch a maximum of persons in the widest possible panel of generations. To continue to develop their sound, to enrich more their influences and to climb one by one levels in the musical universe of Metal, these are the ambitions which shares every member of the group in Orion's Night.

“In The Beginning”, the first MCD has been out on February 6th, 2010; it contains 5 tracks (an intro and 4 songs). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orion%27s+Night">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.