Orion's Reign was formed in 2001, consisting then of Themis (guitar), Harris (guitar), Kostas (bass) and Noel (drums). Prior to this line up, other musicians were auditioned by or even joined with founding members Themis and Harris, but there was no real band back then, and therefore it's an era not worth mentioning. The four jammed together and came up with some tunes marking the first and primitive, classic heavy metal era of the band.

Somewhere in 2003 Harris left the band and Michael joined in, adding the much needed lead guitar elements. Kyriakos (keyboards) became a Reign member at about the same period and the band gradually shifted from classic heavy metal to a more epic/power sound.
The first demo, "Steel Horizons", was released in 2003, containing two instrumental songs. Needless to say, the band was having a pretty hard time recruiting a vocalist, as none of the auditioned fulfilled the requirements. Despite the difficulties, the song Steel Horizons made it to the 2004 Greek metal compilation "Greece Attacks, The Next Assault" and received good reviews. On the same year (2004) another demo was released. "The Guiding Light" featured the songs from "Steel Horizons" and a country influenced ballad (a guest vocalist helped us with that one). The band continued rehearsing, waiting for the right person to finally show up at the auditions.

At last, after numerous disappointments, Yiannis (vocals) was auditioned somewhere in 2005 and immediately got the job. The band was now able to finally work some vocals in already written material and compose some more, as well. The first song with the new vocalist was "Amidst the Battle", released on the internet in December 2005. It had a great impact and even got airplay in Germany (to our great astonishment!) The band was slowly making its name familiar to metal fans. The uploading of just a couple of songs on the net was enough to get people talking and soon brought the band to no1 of the December 2006 Greek metal band websites poll, conducted monthly by "Rock Underground" webzine.

During the recording sessions, the group also did a cover of "The First Noel", a medieval Xmas song, to be included upon request in a nationwide released compilation; cutting more than 40.000 copies and radio station uses it as its music theme. Finally, after extensive work in the studio, Orion's Reign released their first EP, "Beyond Eternity", in March 2007, consisting of 5 songs and the already mentioned cover. 
The band is currently pursuing a record deal and planning live appearances. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orion%27s+Reign">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.