There are several music acts named Orlando:
1. A singer-songwriter from the Netherlands.
2. A Eurodance group from Italy
3. A romo band from the United Kingdom, 1996-1997
4. A rock band from Spain
5. A singer from Uganda
6. A comedy troupe
7. An Experimental/Progressive Rock band from Canton, Michigan.
8. An electronic indie band from the United Kingdom, 2015-

1. Orlando is a Dutch group formed around singer-songwriter Tessa Douwstra, known from Wooden Saints. In 2013 they released their debut album 'The Early Warning Company', which includes her earlier released EP 'Put Me On The Light Box'.

2. Orlando was an Eurodance project from Italy. It was produced by the S.A.I.F.A.M group owned by Mauro Farina. Bruno Rosellini and Danilo Ballo were the producers.
Orlando released several singles such as "Rock My Heart", "Wasting Water", "She's Alone", "I'm Dreaming" or "Let Me Go".
In 2000 appeared the album titled "Number 1".

3. Orlando was a Romo band founded by Dickon Edwards and Tim Chipping. After 3 singles "Just for a Second", The Magic EP and "Nature's Hated", Orlando finally delivered their full-length debut, "Passive Soul", in September 1997, released by Blanco y Negro. Edwards subsequently went on to form the band Fosca.

4. Orlando is a band from Madrid. Band members are Ana Béjar, Alfonso Pozo and Alfonso Pachés. They have so far released three records: Farewell EP, Grand Silence and Songs Before Sunrise. The latter is their first album for label Astro Discos, released in 2005. Their music can be described as a mix between folk, pop and jazz.

5. Orlando is also a Ugandan musician-singer, highly popular in his country. One of his most famous songs is 'Piga Makofi'.

6. Orlando is a comedy act off youtube that has then been turned into a song. The comedy act entitled Gap Yah, which has been remixed and features The Banter.

7. Orlando is an Experimental/Progressive Rock band hailing from Canton, Michigan. http://www.facebook.com/OrlandoBando

8. Orlando is the London-based avant-garde electronic pop project of Cathy Lucas (formerly of Fanfarlo and My Sad Captains, currently of  Vanishing Twin and Innerspace Orchestra). It is similar in style to acts like Stereolab, Broadcast and cinematic funk/jazz composers like Alan Hawkshaw. Two cassettes have been released on Lucas' own label, RAM Tapes. 
http://ramtapes.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orlando">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.