ORMUS was formed by the end of 2003, under the working title ''Tales''. Forming a band was an idea of Zoran (Zormus) Todorovic and Svjetlana (Sion) Vucetic, and, in the band's beginning, Zoran Mladen-Zena, joined the team. Back then, musical arrangments were done by Zormus, lyrics and vocals arrangements were done by Sion , and Zena was the vocalist for the band. Still discovering and brushing their unique style, they were searching for people, equipment and space to turn the ideas into the music. In the beginning od 2005., the first lineup of ''Ormus'' is gathered. Sion decides to change the band name from ''Tales'' to ''ORMUS'', and in January 2005, the band starts to rehersal. At the end of February 2005., the first and complete lineup of the band started rehersaling. This lineup consisted of:

Svjetlana (Sion) Vucetic – lyrics, vocal
Zoran (Zena) Mladjen – vocal
Sladan (Nemo) Avlijas – lead guitar, musical arrangements
Zoran (Zormus) Todorovic – rhythm guitar, musical arrangements, lyrics
Sasa (Sasha) Draskovic – bass
Arnel (Iced flame) Lutvic – drums

First lineup consisted of people with different music taste, so the first phase of the band was covering popular songs of bands like Metallica, Iced Earth, Arch Enemy, 6FU, Pantera, Sepultura, which was leaving Ormus little time for writing their own songs, but it helped the bandmembers to brush up their playing skills and to play more perfectly together, as a band.

Ormus had its first gig on Bosnian Metal Fest in May 2005, where the crowd accepted them very well, and they left an impression of the band that will grow bigger and bigger. More gigs came along the way, and Zormus and Sion worked together on material destined to be on their first demo release. In autumn 2005. Sion takes the place of a lead vocalist and Zena leaves the band, because he started showing lack of interest. He was replaced by Alisa Ceric as a back vocalist, but she was in the band for a very short time. After Alisa's leaving, Sion takes full-time job as lead vocalist, and the band continues their work as 5 piece.

Beginning of November 2005. brought the world Ormus first demo release, which was self-produced. It contained 5 songs. Different critics and reviews were made based on this release, but generally, most of them were positive, and being like that, they were inspiration for more serious work. Till the end of 2005, and in the first part of Anno 2006, band continues to play in numerous gigs, and their tracklist is changing. Cover songs are easily replaced by new band songs, which are taking primary place in their repertoaire.

Iced Flame left the band in March 2006, and band tried to find a new drummer which will be able to play Ormus original songs. After few unsuccessful attempts of recruiting drummer that is able to play Ormus songs, band recruited temporary drummer, Stefan Koljenovic, who's also drumming in bands Silent Kingdom and Kursk. With his help, Ormus composed few more original songs and finally defined their unique sound. July of 2006 also brought another change in lineup, Sasha left Ormus, and he was replaced by Milenko (Joe) Jokic. Ormus current lineup is consisting of:

Sion – vocalist, lyrics
Nemo – lead guitar, arrangements
Zormus – compositor, rhythm guitar, arrangements
Milenko (Joe) Jokic – bass
Srdjan Duletic – drums

It is not easy to define the style of music Ormus is playing, but the closest definition is that Ormus plays melodic death/thrash metal with female growl/scream vocals. Actually, the best way is for you to download some Ormus songs and judge for yourself. In the summer 2007, Ormus start with distribution of their first full-lenght release "God's Grief".

The second studio album called "Transmission" is now out. Recording and mixing of the album was done in the studio "Black Bride", which is owned by the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ormus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.