Ornimental

Ornimental is a band with a mission, a mission to put the groove, originality, and excitement back into metal, where it belongs. The name itself, Ornimental, comes from
the Latin prefix Orni (to celebrate or decorate) and the root word mental (of intelligence or insanity), and true to form, Ornimental delivers an intelligent, possessed sound that celebrates the origins and foundations of hard rock and metal alike. 

Harkening back to heavy metal legends like Metallica, Megadeth and Pantera, famously lead by deceased guitar legend Dimebag Darrell, Ornimental doesn't rest on writing and simply producing crunchy, appetizing, complex guitar licks. Oh, they produce hair raising metal at its most fundamental level, rest assured, but the song writing and arrangement has a classical, even groove edge, reminding the listener of a perfect marriage of Eddie Van Halen, Zeppelin and Beethoven. 

As if that marriage weren't appealing enough, a deeper blues undercurrent exists in the band's original music, paying homage to Eric Clapton, the skilled David Gilmore of Pink Floyd, and many other legends, yet Ornimental's music has a modern influence which is subtly inherited from avant garde nu-metal bands like Disturbed and Trivium.

Ornimental was founded by lead guitarist Danny Perry and drummer Julio Garcia. Danny has been writing unique, intoxicating original music for over half a decade. Danny Perry’s admiration for Beethoven lead him to absorbed the classical structures of the masters together with his powerful voice, only trumped by his dedication and skilled guitar playing. Danny has been offered music scholarships by renowned music schools. He was born an engaging front man though, and has found a niche harmonizing with talented rhythm guitarist and back vocals Ariel. Julio writes the percussion parts that create the powerful emotion you feel. Toping it off with bassist Joel who brings a skill that resonates in his playing. Together have successfully brought the band to life in the past few years. 

Since rounding out the band, Ornimental's popularity has skyrocketed, as the band has performed in the more chic, popular venues throughout Florida, even being called on to play at Rocktoberfest this last October 2011. They’ve had interviews with the likes of Nicki Hilton, Lil' Wayne, guitar legend Yngwie Malmsteen, Kid Rock, and more, and have even received air play on Metal Messiah Radio, but they don't intend to stop there. Ornimental's goal is to take over the metal universe, playing in large venues, opening for the big boys like Metallica and Van Halen.

Now, though, they begin their long journey to the top, starting with a video called “Encage” off of their new EP, unveiling the new work along with an interview and video debut on Miami Music Television, an internationally syndicated music show that is distributed to 27 million viewers. The video itself was created by Award winning 
Producer Jeffrey Moore of Axtravagaza Films, and can soon be viewed on Youtube in December, 2011. The phenomenal EP can be purchased at Ornimental.com, CDbaby, itunes,Rhapsody,Spotify and Pandora.

Armed with an excellent management team lead by Mary Nelson, Ornimental is destined to become the largest modern age Metal band in the world as they refine and create some of the most intense metal you will find anywhere. Ornimental's music and their live performance can only be summed up in one way, Loud and Proud, and that's the way they'll make their indelible mark on the world of Heavy Metal.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ornimental">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.