Founded in 2005. in Subotica, hard n' heavy band Oroz concepts its music on Hard Rock basis of the early '90 and riff sections played in the style of '80.
The Band represents a continuance of partnership between Nikole Vlahovi] (Rhytam guitar), Boris Dobrokes (Solo guitar/backing vocal) and Aleksandar Sabo (Bass) who played together periodicaly from 2002. to 2004. forming many bands mainly oriented on cover gigs without expressive need for their own material and clear goals.
Many Heavy, Thrash and Hard Rock bands from the '80 and the '90 left their mark on those bands and you can still feel their influence in the music of Oroz.
In the beginning of autumn 2005. Silvan Vesni] (Drums) joins the band and soon after him Miroslav Baki] (Lead vocal) who occasionally cooperated in previous bands. In the next couple of months the band plays under name "No Class" and gets a positive reaction from local fans, but in the winter of 2005. the band changes its name to "Oroz" and starts working on their first songs mainly directed toward local public. Under this name, band plays a couple of successful gigs including ther own material. 
 
In the middle of 2006, the band records their first songs. There are four tracks on the demo (Ludilo, Rana, Stranac, Oroz) as-well-as some multimedia content. Demo gets positive critics from fans and media critics.

After the recording of the demo, and at the endo of 2006, Oroz After the recording, in the fall of 2006; playes at the heart of the Subotica city, showing to the local public that they are ready for even bigger things. At the beginning of 2007, the band plays couple of gigs for Belgrade's radio 202, motor meetings, regional gigs, and during that period introduces three new songs (Prljava igra, Ti Mozes Sve, Dama) not found on the demo CD.

 In the summer of 2007; the band, more experienced than before, enters the studio to record their eight songs. During the recording, there has been a change in the bands lineup. Because he failed to meet the expectations of the band, and after a long period of bad cooperation, Oroz decides to continue without Miroslav Bakic. Boris takes the position of lead vocal, while backing vocal are now performed by Nikola and Silvan. Four of them continue on the recording despite of this change.

Recording of the album «Prljava Igra» has been finished by the end of October 2007. Beside songs "Ludilo", "Rana", "Stranac" and "Oroz", previously heard on the demo, the band recorded three new songs called ”Dama”, ”Ti mozes sve” and ”Prljava Igra”, and one never before performed song called “Hodam putem koji nestaje”. After finishing the recording, band has intensive rehearsals preparing for the next season and in the beginning of 2008. the search for a major record label begins.

In the meantime, band does a couple of gigs for radio 202, and for the first time ever performs in Belgrade. Shortly after that, Oroz enters in Kula's gitarijada, where after the second day, Oroz qualified for the finale and despite huge competition claimed the prestigious third place.

Somewhere in the middle of march 2008 the band gets an offer from a major record company «One Records» for the their first album «Prljava Igra». After short negotiations in Subotica and Belgrade, the band decides to accept the offer. Official signing of the contract takes place in Belgrade on 16Th April 2008. The album is expected to hit the stores nationwide in the late April 2008. After the release of the album, comes the promotion... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/oroz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.