Orpheum; named after the old theatrical vaudevillian circuit, formed from the ashes of different bands in 2010. Based in London, UK.

Fronted by the mesmerising Erin Johnson, melodic guitar of Finlay Thomson and the thunderous drums of Andy Thomson, they have combined gothic, progressive and symphonic metal to create their dramatic music. Some influences include Within Temptation, Gothminister and Dream Theater.

On 24th June 2016 the band's debut album "Darkness and Decay" was released through the Official Orpheum Store, iTunes, Google Play, Amazon Music and Spotify, having tour and festival dates booked for 2016/2017 for around the UK to promote the album.

"If heavy metal isn't only about playing fast and loud, some genres show the melodic, technical and obscure side of what heavy rock can bring to us.. With songs full of feeling and combined with heavy riffs. 9/10"
- Roadie Crew Heavy Metal and Classic Rock Magazine - September 2016

This marked the band's second release, when after renaming the band to Orpheum in 2010, they worked on and released their first EP "Treason" in March 2012 and went on to play in and around London during that year. During this time they were booked to support bands such as November-7 and Edguy while interviewed by websites such as terrorizer.com. 

Due to singer Erin having to undergo an operation at the beginning of 2013 and a member parting ways with the band, they headed back to the studio to work on their debut album, until former Silent Cry member Phillipe Dutra joined the Orpheum family in 2014. 

At the break of 2015, the band's debut album was announced, along with the title track being released online. The year saw the band back performing live again since 2012 and for the first time at venues across the UK, including the Northern Symphony Festival, Bladefest and Darker Days Festival 2017. The Darker Days Festival marked the last time keyboard player Mars Martin would perform with the band, leaving after 8 years together. The band went on to perform at The Quinphonic Festival 5 2017 and the Darker Days Festival 2018 with a guest bassist and without bass player Phillipe Dutra; who the band announced would not be returning. Orpheum are set to perform a few limited dates during 2018, while working on their next release.

https://www.orpheum.co <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orpheum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.