This biography belongs to two different artists. One is the german rapper Orpheo and the other one is a progressive and psychedelic rockband. 

1.Orpheo (Rapper)

Orpheo is a german rapper based in berlin.  Orpheo is a lyrical virtuous rapper who renders original themes in a unique way. In his music, a virtuoso play with words and stylistic devices meets superbly produced beats. Growing up surrounded by wind and sea in rainy Kiel, he began writing rap songs at the age of 11. An aborted modeling career in Korea and a million rhymes later, he enriches German hip hop with the magic of his expressive and lyrical songs.

2. Orpheo (Band)
The story of Orpheo started when Alban Tromp and David Marquart Scholtz decided to start a musical experiment, which came forth from their love for progressive and psychedelic hardrock. Whilst still searching for a distinctive style and sound, Wendelin Visser was asked to join the band as their vocalist. They met Anne-Krijn Piersma during a jamsession and he turned out to be a welcome addition to the band. Not long after that, David met keyboardplayer Rutger Vlek, who completed Orpheo.

It is in August 2002 when Orpheo did her first live gig and all the band members enjoyed it very much. Orpheo entered the ‘Rode Oortjes’ (“Red Ears”) contest and gaining a wildcard, they proceeded to the finals and came out as the winners. They continued to compete in a bigger contest, ‘De Grote Prijs van Groningen’ (The Big Prize of Groningen), in which they ended up in second place (May 2003).

In the summer of 2003, Orpheo recorded her first mini-cd named ‘Songs of past days to come’. From that time on, they performed live in Dutch venues such as Simplon, De Oosterpoort and Hedon with bands like Nemesea, Antares, Splinter, Trisomy and Prey, while witnessing a constantly growing fan base.

Spurred on by this support, Orpheo decided it was time to record her first full length album. The result is the album ‘Echoes’, which is now available in many Dutch record stores and is sold worldwide (Germany, Japan, USA, Canada, Sweden).

Unfortunately, just before new years eve of 2004, Alban announced that he didn’t want to be part of Orpheo anymore and after an amicable agreement Alban and Orpheo parted ways. From January ’05 on, Gerard Wolters (ex-Quintessence, ex-Thirty7) was an official member of the Orpheo camp.

After having played in Orpheo for almost a year, Gerard felt he could no longer combine his religious beliefs with participating in the band and in December 2005, he decided to leave. The remaining members were determined and found Gerards replacement in Ruud Meijer, who will play the bass guitar from January 2006 on.

Orpheo’s music is best described as progressive symphonic hard rock. Their influences vary from the old legends such as The Beatles, Pink Floyd, Queen and Yes, to the contemporary heroes like Dream Theater, Muse, The Flower Kings, Pain of Salvation and Ayreon. Words that are often used to describe their music are for example: bombastic, obstinate, dreamy and inventive. Orpheo is trying to add new flavours to the prog-rock scene and will continue to surprise and impress their listeners in the years to come. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orpheo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.