There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Orthodox is a trio from Seville, Spain playing experimental doom metal, inspired by religious folklore and even jazz.

“We started with a concept”, could be read in the album cover of the seminal band Earth. The Spanish trio Orthodox could say the same. Their music, their performance, their artwork, everything is made in order to develop their own concept.

The band started in the winter of 2004/05 and the next April they recorded the two themes of Gran Poder, an amazing debut that is just the first stone of the sonic monolith they're going to build step by step. In this first recording, their musical influences Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd, Melvins and Sleep get mixed with their peculiar perception of the South-Spanish religious folklore. The result is a liturgical music with obsessive repetitions, minimalism, feedback, distortion and endless drones creating a primitive feeling that leads to trance and remains as a perfect soundtrack for every dark point of Christianity: oppression, sin, suffering, guilt and pain.

Orthodox members come from different bands of the Spanish underground (Tierra, Degüello, The Forge) but is Orthodox the band where they feel free to express themselves and let their personalities sing with a same voice.

Now they are working in new songs with new instrumentation (stand up bass, piano...) and showing influences from John Coltrane, Ornette Coleman, Morricone, Ligeti and religious music so they can express their spiritually in the heaviest way possible.

Official Myspace

2) Orthodox is a straight edge metalcore band from Nashville, TN.

They have released a 4 track EP that can be downloaded on their bandcamp for free

Facebook

3) Orthodox is a deaththrash band from Italy. They formed in 1991 and released a couple of demos before splitting up in 1996. They reformed again in 2005.

Official Website

4) Orthodox is a melodic death metal band from Russia. They formed in 2007 and released their debut album "Из праха к мир" in the same year.

Official Myspace

5) Orthodox was a doom metal band from Ukraine.

6) Orthodox is a melodic death metal band from Ukraine. They formed in 2006 and have released their debut album "Forever Not Yet" in 2011.

Band Info
Official Myspace

7) Orthodox is a Liquid D&B producer.
His work here http://soundcloud.com/substance-dnb

8) Orthodox was a deaththrash band from Czech Republic. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orthodox">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.