There are three bands called Orwell.

1. Orwell, made up of Jérôme Didelot, Thierry Bellia and Alexandre Longo, is a chamber pop group from France. After issuing recordings in Japan and France, Hidden Agenda released their debut full-length Following Days, which features contributions from Médéric Gontier of fellow French band Tahiti 80 and multi-instrumentalist Fugu. Le Génie Humain, their fifth album, released by Twin Fizz in 2007, features the contributions Gontier, as well as Alexander von Mehren, JP Nataf, Ruth Minnikin (Heavy Blinkers), Miss Aprilia Sari (White Shoes and the Couples Company) and Julien Lonchamp (Jack and the'), among others.

2. Orwell is metal band from La Crosse, Wisconsin.  Formed in 2004, they released "The Undying", a 7-song EP, through Zero Budget Records in 2007.  Earlier that year, they lent 2 new songs to a Zero Budget split with Label mates Buried Face Down and now-defunct And Hope to Die.

In the summer of 2007, Orwell hopped in the van with a new vocalist, and a new 2 song sampler CD and toured the mid/central US. Shortly after the tour, the band went through a major lineup change, along with a stylistic shift, eschewing their breakdown-laden sound in favor of more melody and speed.

In 2009, the band released their first full-length album, titled "Endeavors", again on Zero Budget Records.  They are currently readying the release of their newest effort, titled "AVOHFASIH".

3. Orwell was a band from Chicago/Champaign, Illinois active between 1995 and 1996. Only 3 songs were ever officially released, though 9 were recorded. The 3 released tracks appeared on the 'Direction', 'Emo Schmeemo' and 'Ground Rule Double' compilations. Members of the band have also played in Braid, Friction, Haymarket Riot, Hubcap,  Gila Bend, The Sky Corvair, Hey Mercedes and City on Film. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orwell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.