ORWELLIAN a metal band hailing from the rust belt of Youngstown Ohio.

Deriving the name from George Orwell "Orwellian" is an adjective describing the situation, idea, or societal condition that George Orwell identified as being destructive to the welfare of a free and open society. It connotes an attitude and a brutal policy of draconian control by propaganda, surveillance, misinformation, denial of truth, and manipulation of the past.

Orwellian began with drummer James Shaw, who initially convinced guitarist Seth Kensinger to return to the music scene to see what they could create. A few sessions later guitarist Truman Carter joined what would eventually become Orwellian. vocalist Ian Pethtel was designated to handling vocal duties with bassist Mark Moats initiated to bring the low end. Soon after the band agreed on using the name Orwellian, Truman was forced to leave due to personal reasons and guitarist Rickie Palmer stepped in and immediately meshed.

Orwellian debuted in the spring of 2014 sonically assaulting everyone that witnessed. Orwellian continued to tour regionally through the rest of 2014 well into the following year, opening for the likes of After The Burial, All That Remains, Crowbar, Revocation, Havok, Fit For An Autopsy, Armed For Apocalypse, Allegaeon, The Agonist, Product Of Hate, Hed Pe, Powerman 5000, United By Hate, Sykosis, Vindicator, and Sunflower Dead. During this time Orwellian entered the studio to whip up some magic in their debut Ep "Visions of the Future".

Orwellian "Visions of the Future" was released independently digitally worldwide May 1st 2015 and is available on iTunes, Google Play Store, Amazon, Xbox Music,CD Baby and Bandcamp.

For old school fans physical copies can be purchased through the bands merchandise store orwellian.bigcartel.com, CD Baby, at shows and select record stores around the country.

Orwellian "Vision of the Future" is also available for streaming on Apple Music, iHeart Radio, Spotify, and Last.fm .

Orwellian is scheduled to open for Soulfly, Soilwork, Decapitated and Shattered Sun, October 13th at The Agora in Cleveland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Orwellian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.