Oshiego has been perfecting Death Metal since 2004. The current line-up of Oshiego consists of Umar (vocals), Zul (guitars and bass) and Krzysztof Klingbein (session drums). Oshiego takes heavy musical influences from notable bands such as Kreator, Melechesh and Grave, as well as incorporating Middle Eastern touches into their songs. Lyrically-driven by subjects involving injustice, war, Islamic mysticism and the inevitable struggles of life.
Oshiego is determined to Thrash and Destroy!

Oshiego released an MCD titled Unending Carnage in 2009. Favourable reviews were garnered by this release from reviewers of Sea of Tranquility, Metal Team UK and Castle of Vampiria (Spanish). This release consisted of two new songs (also recorded by Leonard Soosay at Snakeweed studios) and the four songs from the “Now Suffer” demo, all mastered by Michael Kalember (Absence Of The Sacred).

In late 2009, work commenced on Oshiego’s debut full-length album, ‘Woe to the Conquered’. Again, it was recorded by Nathanial Chew and Leonard Soosay at Snakeweed studios. The completed work was sent to Hertz Studios in Poland to be mastered, who morphed the already brutal recording into a relentless assault, poised to strike at the hearts of the unbelievers.

Oshiego went on a hiatus from live shows from May 2009, but returned with a vengeance to bring the crushing tones of their music to the masses from the live stage yet again in 2010, with a gig which was aptly named, Now Suffer. The resounding response to the gig is reflected in a gig review, which described the closing act as follows: “The set for the night finally ended with local pharaohs Oshiego bringing down the house with the wall of death poised to portray their adulation.” Clearly Oshiego’s capacity to entertain an audience live has not been undermined by the months of silence.

Oshiego released ‘Woe to the Conquered’ in 2011 independently. It was during this era that Oshiego shared the stage with notable bands such as Marduk and Misery Index in Indonesia

In 2013, Oshiego released their sophomore album, The Great Architect of Nothing’, under the label, Horror Pain Gore Death Productions (HPGD). Eight soul shattering original tracks of groovy, neck-breaking riffs, bonecrushing subsonic bass and primal, warlike exteme percussion plus a cover of Vomitory’s ‘The Voyage’. This is where Oshiego truly found their sound.

Oshiego released their third album in 2015, ‘Crossing the Bridge of Siraat’. Considered to be their masterpiece Oshiego were more devastating than ever before. Merciless riffs, Middle-Eastern stylings, groove and melody combine with an uncompromising old school approach resulting in total sonic torment!

In 2019 Oshiego release their 4th album, ‘The Book of Wonders’ with multi-talented musician, Jared Moran, who has many projects under his belt (Uzumaki, Ange De La Mort, Boiled Tongue, Filrth Eater, etc).

On 14th January 2022, Oshiego released its 5th full length album ‘Jaljalut‘,12 crushing tracks of Oshiego’s own brand of Death Metal. Middle Eastern stylings packed with intense groove, brutality, melodies and defiance. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Oshiego">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.