.1995 Ossian start playing in a small session room based in their home town Putignano (Ba), in the boring, far – away South of Italy.

.1997 After two years of hard sessions the band produces two promotional - tapes of heavy/thrash kind: "Surreal Masterpeace"(Jan97) and "Mythomania"(Jul97) that meet good success in the underground metal scene and receive optimal reviews on the national and international press. Always in the same year Ossian perform two consecutive times to PEPSI SZIGET (International rock festival in Budapest) with artists like: Slash, Iggy Pop, Faith No More, Therapy? Prodigy, Sonic Youth, Foo Fighters, meeting great success among the numerous international crowd.

.1999 In April a third promo - tape sees the light and the sound evolves toward the original melting pot performed today by the band. After a positive welcome by the metal press and some changes in line – up the band self-releases a master giving life to its debut - CD: "Ecforia (Mental Hallucination Device)”.

.2001 Out in September 2000, the full-length meets positive welcomes by labels, press and insiders receiving excellent reviews (Check press section). The band works to the promotion of this full-length CD through a strong live activity in Italy obtaining good success.

.2004 After the production of the new promotional CD “:M:O:L:E:C:U:L:E:S: Promo(tion) a. D. **03/**04”, only addressed to labels and insiders, the band finally signs a prestigious deal with the Italian label "XTREME-RISING RECORDS", a "RISINGWORKS RECORDS" subsidiary (Anger, Atman, Labyrinth, Wonderland, Kink), for the production of a new album “THE SLOW FADE OF LOVING THINGS” scheduled in September 2005 e distributed in Italy by “SELF”.

.2005 Finally the new Album is ready to be released. Osian join forces with Alkemist Fanatix Europe for the promotion of the new album. The band also enters the roster of the agency for a booking collaboration and for the planning of tours to promote the new issue on stage. Soon new gigs will announced...stay tuned!. The band has also obtained a sponsorship agreement with “Frozen” and “Mofu” Clothing(Prestigious street - wear brand from Italy, “Level 27 Clothing” and “Full – On Clothing” (New brands based in U.S.).

.2006 Finally out the new Osian album: "The slow fade of loving things" for X-Treme Rising/RisingWorks Rec. The new issue available in all italian store from 13 JANUARY 2006 is distributed on all italian territory by SELF.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Osian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.