Osiris Rising was an independent alternative metal band from South Florida U.S. whose rise in popularity occurred after the death of their lead guitar player, Joseph Robert Arthur (1982 to 2006). Their music was largely non-genre specific, as their style changed from song to song. Most of their music incorporated brooding melodies, ambient interludes, progressive arrangements and dark tormented lyrics. While some songs included hints of rock and even punk.
 
The band was created in 2002 by the late Joseph Robert (Leviathan) Arthur, drummer Brian (VoR) Vorisek, and Peruvian born vocalist Michael Ibarra. All three were musicians on the Fort Lauderdale underground music scene. Bass player Paul (Papa Middy) Arthur joined the band in 2003.
 
Reviewers have tagged their sound as somewhere between metal and grunge. The guitar player and drummer both named a wide range musical influences including; Type O Negative, Tool, Opeth, Alice In Chains, & Led Zeppelin. Combined with Michael Ibarra's raw, high-flying voice & melancholy crooning, the unusual blend of influences gained attention from listeners of many styles of music.

Osiris Rising turned down an opportunity with Drive Thru Records in 2004 to pursue an indie CD release. Their notorious live shows and unique sound earned them a prominent spot in the Florida rock club circuit. Their debut album Diluting The Gene Pool, released in 2005, has received international acclaim, receiving airplay on college radio, internet radio, POD casts, and most notably on Radio Belgrade in Serbia and Radio Free Iraq.

Joseph Robert Arthur died in a car accident just weeks after the band had begun pursuing a record deal with Atlantic Records early in 2006, leaving the band without its creative force and primary songwriter.

The remaining band members laid Osiris Rising to rest as a tribute to their departed guitar player.

Official site: www.osirisrising.tk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Osiris+Rising">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.