The history of Oskord band begins on the ruins of quite successful Ukrainian band Holy Blood. Within this band, participants Oskord worked together for about five years, during which managed to record four albums, as well as give many concerts in Ukraine and abroad (Belarus, Switzerland, Moldova, Finland, Poland, The Czech Republic).

After the situation which affected the subsequent course of events, all participants except Fedor (vocals/guitar) had to leave the band. Since no one was going to give up with the music, guitarist Sergey Nagorny, bass guitarist Alex Andrushchenko and drummer Dmitry Titorenko decided to find the other musicians and continue to work under the new name. The band immediately joined Andrey Yakovenko, which can be seen on the last concerts Holy Blood as a session musician playing the flute and bouzouki.

Date of birth of the band can be considered on August 11, 2008, when all the participants gathered at the first rehearsal.

In spring 2009 the band began recording their debut album.

In September 2009, search for a vocalist to succeed, and the band joins a new member Grigory Nazarov, previously familiar to work with the Coram Deo band.

10 July 2010 the band played its first concert at the festival Total Armageddon.

October 18, 2010 completed work on their debut album "The Weapon of Hope".

«Oskord» is Old Slavic edged weapons in the form of a large ax with a long handle. And we chose this name for the band not accidental.
The Bible says a lot about the spiritual weapons: «Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil» (Ephesians 6:11). The Bible also says that the sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. This is the meaning we put into our name. Our weapon is The Word of God, and «we wrestle not against flesh and blood» (Ephesians 6:12)
«If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.» (Ecclesiastes 10:10)
We want our spiritual ax was always sharp and ready for battle! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Oskord">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.