For the past few years, Ashley Thomas has steadily been building up his artillery of forward thinking, and hard hitting club music under his moniker, Otik.

After releasing on the likes of Polydor, Dusky’s 17 Steps, Infinite Machine, and DEXT Recordings, he debuted a 4-track effort, ‘Top Ten’ EP on Keysound Recordings in late 2018.

In 2019 Otik kicked off the year with the compilation track ‘Memoria’ and the ‘Stoned Ghost’ EP on Berlin’s Nous imprint, continuing to explore the emotive and dreamy side of UK Techno. This was soon followed by the vocal club track ‘Actress’ on Midland’s Intergraded, and later the experimental ‘Dioxide’ EP via his staple label DEXT Recordings, including a remix from Hessle Audio’s Bruce. October of 2019 brought the EP ‘Blasphemy’ released by Boogie Box Records, accompanied by a killer remix from Timedance’s Metrist.

2020 has been a fast paced year for Otik so far and has seen him return to Intergraded for a 4 track solo EP 'Wetlands', which was met with wide critical acclaim and support from across the board. In March he released the single 'NDE' on Hodge & Franklin De Costa's 'Mother's Finest' imprint which was then followed by another 4 track effort for Mr. Mitch's Gobstopper Records in April. With a bunch of releases still to come this year, he doesn't seem to be slowing down just yet.

Otik’s Techno, Worldly, and Breaks influenced DJ mixes are a guaranteed dance floor filler every time, and he has been praised by the likes of Earmilk & DJ Mag for his “inventive and infectious club sets and radio shows.” With previous mixes on NTS, Rinse FM, Worldwide FM and BBC Radio 1 & 1xtra, he currently delivers a quarterly radio show on Rinse France (with past guests including Cosmin TRG, Andrea, Throwing Snow), attempting to blend the sounds of UK Techno, Weightless, and other experimental & underground music from across the globe. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Otik">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.