Otoboke Beaver (おとぼけビ～バ～) is a punk rock band from Kyoto, Japan. The band is named after a love hotel in Osaka near the high school of one of the band members. Musically, the band play a very fast-paced and aggressive style of punk rock, with frequent changes in rhythm and tempo, accompanied by gang vocals. Their songs feature love and relationships as regular themes, often based on singer Accorinrin's own experiences

The band formed in 2009 while the members were involved in a music club at their university. The original members were Accorinrin (guitar, vocals), Yoyoyoshie (guitar), Pop (drums), and Nishikawachi (bass). In June 2011, Otoboke Beaver released a demo CD featuring three songs, including an early version of "Chuchu Song," a live favorite that would be later re-recorded and distributed to supporters who helped fund the band's first trip to the United States. A mini-album followed in December of the same year. The cover art for both releases were designed by Yukari Matsuoka, and feature a distinctive cartoon of a nude woman with a rabbit's head.

In 2012 the group released their first live album through Egypt Records. In 2013 they released a limited-edition single through Jet Set Records, featuring the newly recorded "Otobokebeaver Daijikenbo" and two live tracks. In March of the same year, the band released the mini-album, Love Me Sign. Bassist Nishikawachi left the band in 2013 and was replaced by Hiro-Chan, a fan who asked to join via e-mail.

Otoboke Beaver participated in Record Store Day 2015, releasing the single "Akimahenka" on vinyl. In 2016, the band signed with UK-based label Damnably. The Okoshiyasu!! Otoboke Beaver compilation album was released, featuring the majority of the songs found on the group's first two mini-albums, with the addition of "Akimahenka." The band recorded a live session for John Kennedy on XFM and toured the UK with Shonen Knife and Leggy. The EP Bakuro Book followed shortly thereafter, with another EP titled Love is Short! appearing the following year for Record Store Day 2017. Love Is Short! reached the UK singles chart.

The band began touring internationally in 2016, including dates at the 100 Club in London and SXSW in the United States in 2017. Their trip to SXSW was helped by fan-funding via Campfire and Kickstarter in order to help cover travel expenses. In 2018, the band traveled over 24,000 miles in one week to play two slots at the Coachella Festival and a three-date headlining tour in the UK with label-mates Say Sue Me and Leggy. Other notable tour-mates have included The Cribs, Miyavi, Guitar Wolf, and Wussy.

The album Okoshiyasu!! Otoboke Beaver was re-released on vinyl for Record Store Day in 2018. Also that year, drummer Pop announced her departure from the band. Pop was replaced Kahokiss, who also attended the same university music society as the band's founding members almost a decade before. In March 2019, Otoboke Beaver performed at SXSW in Austin, Texas. The album Itekoma Hits, a compilation featuring several new songs, was released by Damnably in April 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Otoboke+beaver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.