www.myspace.com/ourlastenemy
www.facebook.com/ourlastenemy

Our Last Enemy are:

Oliver - Vocals
Matt - Bass
Jeff - Drums
Craig - Keys/Samples
Bizz - Guitar

From the ashes rises an enemy…

Our Last Enemy are the dark horses of Australia’s heavy music scene – if you haven’t heard the name yet, remember it – you’ll be hearing a lot of it very soon.

Our Last Enemy are quickly becoming a force to be reckoned with within the Australian heavy music scene thanks to their unique blend of industrial metal and intense live stage show. The band’s debut EP sold out of pressing 3 times, and a legion of passionate fans soon followed, with a heavy touring schedule and coveted international supports of Static X, Dope, Hanzel und Gretyl, Fozzy and Soil.

The band has been extremely busy since their inception, moving to LA for 3 months to live and record their latest offering with renowned industrial metal producer, Fear Factory’s Christian Olde Wolbers. They have inked a record deal with Australia’s No.1 heavy label Riot! Entertainment, acquired a new booking agent in Big Tree Artists, and are the only Australian artist to sign with Australia’s No.1 metal publicist Kelli Wright Public Relations.

The debut record ‘FALLEN EMPIRES’ is out NOW via Riot! Entertainment/Warner Music in Australia and from www.ourlastenemy.com and iTunes worldwide. Recorded in LA by Christian Olde Wolbers (Fear Factory, God Forbid, Threat Signal) it is one of this year’s most anticipated local metal releases. The hard work paid off with a No.1 debut on the iTunes metal charts within 48 hours of digital release. With stores across the country selling out of the first pressing and a stack of killer reviews the album has received a fantastic response.

With new members, guitarist Bizz from cult Florida band Genitortures (feat. David Vincent of Morbid Angel) and The Undead (ex Misfits) and keyboardist Craig (Grimthor), the band embarked on their most ambitious tour to date to celebrate the launch of their debut full length ‘Fallen Empires’ throughout Australia, New Zealand, and with Japan planned but postponed after the earthquake.

A brutal live reputation for theatrically unpredictable shows has created a strong live following and unparalleled local buzz - Our Last Enemy are known for crazed audience interactions and an intensity that results in band member injuries and crowd frenzies.

Ultimately it’s the killer tracks, infusing industrial rhythms with lashings of dark metalcore rock and chunky metal riffs, that keeps the punters headbanging and coming back for more.
Recently signing with industry big hitters Big Tree Artists booking agency the band is gearing up for a 2011 summer tour in support of the forthcoming EP, with Euro/US tour plans for 2012.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Our+Last+Enemy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.