There are multiple artists named Ouroboros: 1) A black metal band from Canada. 2) A brutal death metal band from France. 3) An esoteric dark ambient act from Italy. 4) A death metal band from Australia. 5) A doom metal band from Pittsburgh, PA, United States. 6) A visual kei band from Japan (see ＯＵＲＯＢＯＲＯＳ) 7) A five-piece band from St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. Raw, energetic sound of horns and percussion.

Detailed biographies:

1) Ouroboros Is a black metal band from Edmonton, Canada. They released a handful of demos, an EP and a split before releasing their full length album Spear of Destiny in 2010. In 2013 a posthumous compilation called Invoking the Past was released. 

3) The music project Ouroboros, founded by Marco Grosso in Arezzo, Italy at the beginning of 2004, wants to develop in music the alchemical journey of the philosopher’s stone bringing back the listeners to a foggy and arcane Middle Age. The stylistic coordinates go to an esoteric dark ambient sound with the addition of subliminal sounds (alpha and theta waves), with disturbing, dark and wrapped Latin litanies which often come really hypnotic mantras. Marco Grosso (born 8 May 1970) is a journalist and writer, on esoteric studios of magic and traditional knowledge, and collaborates with some magazines in index notebook and articles. He has written the book "I segreti della Luna Nera" ("Black Moon’s Secrets"), a sample copy about Lilith, also known as the Black Moon, for Arktos Ed. (Italy), and he took part in conferences and discussions about esoteric arguments. Ha has been a theater actor, specially in dramatic and comedy style. Bandcamp page: http://ouroboros.bandcamp.com

4) Ouroboros is a technical death / thrash metal band based in Sydney, Australia, previously known as Dred. The band members are all masters of their craft and work extremely hard to perfect their sound. The band’s efforts have been recognised by industry-leaders via awards for ‘best unsigned band’, ‘best bass player’ and ‘best drummer’ at the Australian Heavy Metal Awards and via generous funding from the Australia Council for the Arts.
On the live circuit, Ouroboros has developed a reputation for putting on extremely tight and memorable shows. The band has shared the stage with some of the most respected names in metal including Morbid Angel, Cannibal Corpse, Psycroptic, Necrophagist, Dying Fetus, Aborted, The Amenta, Sadistik Exekution, Sybreed and The Faceless. Ouroboros continue to perform to ever-expanding audiences via headlining gigs around Australia. The band's debut album Glorification of a Myth was released in June 2011 and has received universal praise from both fans and critics. The album was completely self-funded and showcased the band’s unbridled talent and commitment to producing world-class music. This release was followed up in 2012 with a music video for “Sanctuary”, one of the most popular songs from the album. The video was produced in collaboration with director Paul Shedlowich who used guerrilla filmmaking techniques to capture exceptional Australian locations and acting talent. In March 2012 The Australia Council for the Arts awarded Ouroboros with a substantial funding package to help assist in the production of the band’s next full-length album. The band members are currently working hard to ensure that this release exceeds expectations and are currently on-track for a 2013 release. Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/Ouroborosmusic


7) Ouroboros is a five-piece band from St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, currently thrilling audiences with the unexpectedly raw, energetic sound of horns and percussion. Combining tight instrumental harmonies with vocals and drums, Ouroboros is a versatile musical force that draws from a smorgasbord of melodies and grooves from around the world: the heavy beats of West Africa, folk traditions of Eastern Europe and a healthy dose of jazz and funk. This is music that makes you move!
​
The band’s self-titled debut album, released in May 2015, garnered several accolades including Instrumental Recording of the Year at the 2015 MusicNL Awards, two local People's Choice Awards, a spot on the shortlist for the 2015 Borealis Music Prize, as well as a nomination for Jazz Recording of the Year at ECMW 2016. Their showcase at ECMW 2016 received rave reviews, after which the band was given two festival offers.
​
The band is currently getting ready to record their second studio album, which they plan to release in the Summer of this year. They are also looking forward to showcasing at ECMW 2017 in April and performing their first out-of-Canada shows in the UK in July.
​
At home in bars, school workshops and at festivals, notable performances include the St. John's International Sound Symposium with special guest saxophonist Jessica Lurie, the Wreckhouse International Jazz and Blues Festival, the Guelph Jazz Festival, Lawnya Vawnya, C2 [Commerce + Creativity] Conference Montreal, Upstairs Jazz (Montreal), the St. John's International Women's Film Festival and two runs of Wonderbolt Circus' original production Bolt Out of the Blue. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ouroboros">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.