There's 3 artists with this name.  
1. Out of Darkness is the music ministry of Adam Ubowski and Lori Ubowski.

"For God, who said, 'Let light shine out of darkness,' made his light shine in our hearts to give us the light of knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ."

(2 Corinthians 4:6)

Out of Darkness released their first self-titled CD of original music, Out of Darkness, produced by Jeff Thomas, in December of 2010.  Their music is currently receiving radio play, and one of their songs is featured on  Rocking Romans 2011: Best of New Catholic Music compilation CD.

Adam & Lori Ubowski, the founders of Out of Darkness, met as music students at Quincy University in Quincy, Illinois.  After earning their Bachelors Degrees in Music Business, they were married and moved to Niceville, Florida where they currently reside and serve as Directors of Music Ministry at neighboring churches.

While both Adam & Lori are deeply ingrained in their full-time parish ministries, their involvement with music has significantly expanded over the years. Adam & Lori formed a music ministry called Out of Darkness through which they lead music for retreats, youth conferences, Eucharistic Adoration, and for concert-style worship events across the Diocese of Pensacola-Tallahassee and throughout the country. They are joined by band members Jim Blanchet (drums) and Andrew Ensley (bass guitar, vocals).  Their ministry is becoming more recognized and has evolved to include spreading the message of Christ through talks, skits, and conference planning.  Out of Darkness ministers to a wide range of audiences in all walks of life, including youth, adults, young adults, children and young families.

More information can be found at their official website, outofdarknessmusic.com. 

2. A thrash metal band from Rockland County, New York.

3.  A psychedelic rock band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Out+of+Darkness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.