An Amplifier is a Terrible Thing to Waste (or taste, depending on how many teeth you lose when you dive head first into that cabinet out of sheer adrenaline.)

That having been said, Michael Nine and Joe Lacaze were sickly sitting idly in the sweltering heat recovering after another illicit substance fueled, bridge burning, finger breaking, strep throat inducing Eyehategod, coast to coast ultimate fighting championship, when Jimmy Bower, announces he's got tours and recording planned with Corrosion Of Conformity, Down and  Superjoint Ritual and Brian P. has a Soilent Green tour on the agenda leaving our heroes and new recruit Gary Mader (whos first tour with EyeHateGod took him to the far east, Japan!) to pardon the expression, "sit on their goddamn fuckin' thumbs." Well that sure wasn't going to happen so the process was set in motion, numerous combos were tried and tested, including one with the future Scripts guitarist Chad RPM which luckily, didn't work out, as now New Orleans has had now two new poisionous treats to suck on. Pushing on; Joe, Mike and Gary set out to write the patented heavy Southern Hardcore they were known for, but with a faster, more ferocious Punk Rock influence than EHG. Odd circumstances, but with Jim finding less and less time for EHG, it seemed like a perfect way to start fresh in an innovative way.

Unexpectedly and unfortunately, Soilent Green got not in one, but two devastating auto accidents, forcing Brian to come home and wait till they could tour and practice together. So what better for him to do? Join the rest in writing this powerhouse crust inspired outfit. The crime theme came naturally due to the reality of the nature of the band's history. Most of the band is on probation, so staying out of trouble was and is a priority.The last additon was ex-EHG ("Take as Needed For Pain") bassist Marc Shultz who completed the vicious circle. Marc left to pursue other criminal behaviors before long, and we grabbed Justin G. (later on of the Faeries, Red Beard and Big Baby.) Continuing on and grinding out of a slew of local NOLA shows in 2003 and '04, our story continued and was followed by much wasted idle time and a little thing called Katrina, 00% were in a tough position having members scattered everywhere and a dozen or so songs written and seemingly no hope in sight for getting back on our feet. Cut to mid-2008. After honing down to a four piece (for the time being) we have finally recorded those reclusive 'lost' tunes for our first full length on Seasons of Mist records, entitled "Dragging Down the Enforcer", due out this Fall. Now of course, alot of asswipes are going to say the sound is pure EHG; well, they would be wrong but, it's inevitable: look who's in the band. We plan to move in the direction of more and more fast and mid-paced destruction, and eventually limit the slow open E's to a bare minimum. That's the origin of Outlaw Order 00%. Thus far. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Outlaw+Order">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.