There are more artists that have the name Outsiders.

1. "Outsiders" are a Bristol based Post-punk band formed by Alexis Jochman, Gareth Hughes, Ben Cavanagh, Andrew Rickard and George Paton in 2011. Inspired by bands such as Echo and The Bunnymen, Foals and My Bloody Valentine, Outsiders have carved out their own niche as Dream Punk, due to the ability to shift from punk aggression to dream like ambient qualities. Having recently released their debut single "The Hypnotist" for free download, the band are building up a dedicated fanbase. 

2. The Outsiders were an American rock and roll group from Cleveland, Ohio, that was founded and led by guitarist Tom King. The band is best known for its Top 5 hit "Time Won't Let Me" in early 1966, which peaked at #5 in the US, but the band had three other hit singles in 1966 and released a total of four albums in the mid-1960s.
Allmusic described the act's style: "Part of the secret behind the Outsiders' musical success lay in the group's embellishments [with horns and strings], which slotted in perfectly with their basic three- or four-piece instrumental sound. . . . [H]owever bold and ambitious they got, one never lost the sense of a hard, solid band sound at the core. With Geraci's magnificent singing out front, it was impossible for anyone with an ear for soul not to love how this group sounded, on their album tracks as well as their singles."[1]

3. Outsiders are Czech alternative rock band from Ostrava. They were founded in 2002 and released four albums now - Outsiders (2002), Cats Are the Best (No Dogs Allowed!) (2003), Eden (2005) and Out of Sight (2007). Their musical style has developed from pure electronic dance music to today's rock.

4. The Outsiders are a rap group from Den Bosch, The Netherlands. They have been rapping for several years now. There have been several formations in this group, but the lead musician is Master J.
They are planning to found their own musiclabel for all kinds of music, not only rap. Also a mixtape is planned for this year (2009).

5. Outsiders are a punk rock band from Wellington, New Zealand. They released an Untitled EP in 2008 and their first full-length, "The Words Will Write Themselves" in 2010. The band describes their sound as "loud, aggressive singalong music played by party animals". Their sound is similar to that of Elway, The Dopamines, Nothington and Hot Water Music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Outsiders">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.