1) Outsider 아웃사이더 (born Shin Ok-cheol, March 21, 1983) is a South Korean rapper. He is known for his speed-rapping and is reputed to be able to rap at 17 syllables per second. Outsider considers fellow Korean rapper MC Sniper as his mentor, and he is currently signed to MC Sniper’s label, Sniper Sound.

Outsider first debuted as an underground rapper and received some success. His first break came to him when he was shown on a TV show hosted by the famous Yoo Jae Seok where he showed his incredibly fast rapping skills, which impressed everyone. He then was scouted by the Korean hip-hop legend, MC Sniper, who signed Outsider to his label “Sniper Sound”.

He has released two studio albums, Soliloquist and Maestro. Outsider promoted his first album, Soliloquist, with a single titled “Like a Man” where he demonstrated his amazing ability and the album did fairly well.

His second album, Maestro, was a huge success, topping charts and the title track “Loner” held the #1 spot on M.Net and Melon music charts for more than 5 weeks, making Outsider one of the first rappers to ever reach #1 on a Korean music chart. Outsider has also performed on MBC, SBS, KBS, MNET, and had appeared on MBC’s Star King as a special guest for a contestant. After the promotion for “Loner” ended, he started to promote another track from the same album titled “My Youth Confession”, with the help of Joy and Vasco. This track gained relative success.

Outsider has also worked with underground and overground rappers such as MC Sniper, L.E.O, Illnit, DJ r2, Bae Chi Gi, K.Will, Dok2 and more. Also, he also did a special performance with the rising ballad singer, K.Will, where K.Will showed his incredible rapping skill by rapping alongside Outsider with out a problem.

Outsider also has done a special stage where he rapped his own remake version of BIG BANG’s “Lies”.

He is titled the fastest rapper in Korea, since he is able to rap 17 syllables in a second, which is a feat that has not been achieved by a Korean rapper. 15 syllables was the old record in Guinness Record Books - but because those books are in English and Outsider raps in Korean he’s only the unofficial champion. 

2) Czech punk rock Band Founded in 2005 in Valmez.
Bop - guitar, vocals
Dave - bass
Tabky - drums


3) Georgian punk rock group… robie kukhianidze is the father of Georgian punk…formed in Kutaisi in 1989…
Vocal, Lead-guitar: Robert "Robi" Kukhianidze
Bass-guitar: Saba "Basa" Kuprashvili
Drums: Giga "Bajoo" Mzhavia 

4) Lithuanian death metal band, formed in Pakruojis/Radviliškis in 1990. After 7 years in existence, they released MC "Step to Nothing" in 1997. The band disbanded later. Last known line-up:
Deivis - guitar
Ciakas - guitar
Darius - bass, vocals
Tomas - drums

5) Heavy hardcore band from Sydney, Australia.
Scotty - Drums
Nate - Vox @naytron_01
Josh - Guitars @Yrgodsnt4me
Remmert - Bass

http://www.facebook.com/outsiderhardcore?sk=app_178091127385
http://www.myspace.com/outsiderhc
http://outsidersydney.bigcartel.com

DOWNLOAD the Demo CD:
http://www.mediafire.com/?gjbs72lg5f9a2m5 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Outsider">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.