There are two different artists that are called 'Outworld'.
1. Outworld is a progressive metal band that was formed in 1997 by  Rusty Cooley.
Musically they can be described as progressive, groove and melodic metal. With influences ranging from neoclassical and progressive metal heroes such as  Yngwie Malmsteen,  Symphony X and  Dream Theater, to modern day hard edged bands such as Pantera and  Meshuggah. 

Outworld is one of the few bands in the metal genre, that is not afraid to groove and try out new things, hence forming a stand alone image. Outworld not only take their music seriously, but also spend as much time on lyrics and subject matter to grab the interest of many. Outworld was originally an idea of guitarist Rusty Cooleys. Soon afterwards he asked keyboardist Bobby Williamson and drummer Darren Davis (later replaced by Matt Smith) to join the band - and began composing their own material. Vocalist Kelly Sundown Carpenter used to sing in a band with Rusty back in the mid-nineties, and when he and Rusty met up again, energy started pulsating. 

In January 2003, Rusty released his self titled debut instrumental CD through Lion Music. The CD got really great reviews, as it showcases Rusty as one of the few of today's young guitarists capable of combining shredding technicality with a flow of melodies. The members from Outworld took part in the albums two bonus tracks, which had vocals on them. 2003 also saw Outworld being temporarily enforced by ex-Cea Serin bassist Shane DuBose, who helped the band recorded the demo, which led to Outworld signing a management deal with Danish based Intromental. In the spring of 2004 Outworld concluded their search for the ultimate line-up, as they integrated bassist Shawn Kascak (ex-Cauldron Born). Outworld is everything a real heavy metal band should be - musically perfect, and with an attitude seldom seen in this business, they are now ready to take on the world - and the outer world - with their own brand of metal. 

By the fall 2004 Scandinavian cinematic metal band Beyond Twilight fell totally in love with Kelly's voice, and asked him to be joining the band for their second album "Section X. Kelly gladly accepted and flew to Denmark to record with the band. However, this by no means implies that Kelly is leaving Outworld, since Outworld is and will always be his main-band. Finally, in December 2004 Outworld signed a worldwide record deal with Replica Records. The debut album "Outworld" was recorded throughout most of 2005 and the release date is set for October 23rd, 2006. Carpenter then left the band in 2006. He claimed that the band was not promoting their album well, and was angry that there was no tour planned to promote the album. He was replaced by Carlos Zema. Zema left the band in 2008.

2. Outworld is a trance project that had two hits in the beginning of the noughties: 'The end' and 'Unknown lifeform'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Outworld">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.