Currently 2 different artists/bands are sharing this name:

1. A symphonic metal band
2. A Ukrainian psytrance duo

1. The symphonic metal band:
Overdream was founded by members of the former hard rock band, Ivanhoe. Common work was preceeded by a long period of experimental composing, which resulted in the development of the typical Overdream sound. Attila Tanács (keyboard, guitar) has managed to develope a fresh and unique style by bravely mixing the characteristics of classical, electro and rock music. The band made its debut  in  2002, at the Mako International Youth Filmfestival. With their English songs, special sound, and the spectacular video show accompanying the gigs, Overdream has proved to be successful in creating a special atmosphere on stage. Their first album, "Navigator" has just been released in the summer of 2006. After working in the studio, the band is ready to hit the road and bring their music to everyone …

Overdream is:

Kylie Hardin /Laneth/ - vocals
Attila Tanács - guitars
Lajos Látrányi - drums
Szabolcs Varga /Szasza/ - bass

Anikó Vágó - lyrics
Zsolt Gulyás - symphonic parts, cello

2. The psytrance duo

Ukraine based rising name 'Overdream' are Makus and Dana Do. The band has been evolved in activities related to the music industry since the late 90's.
Makus, who is influenced not only by psychedelic trance but by ambient music, psy dub and jazz, functions as a sound engineer in a production studio in Kiev, specializes in TV and radio advertising and is considered to be a dominator in the local broadcast media. Aside Overdream he runs his solo project as Makus, with previous releases on Deja Vu Records, Sostoyanie Records and Cytopia Records.

Back in 1999, Makus started working as a DJ and parties organizer in Odessa, being a member of two promo groups - 'Alien DJs' (that has been specializing in underground electronic dance music) and ' S.O.A.P. Sound System' (specializing in psychedelic music and culture). Also he was working as a RJ on two radio projects - 'Pulse' and 'Ohm...' on Radio Fil 102.2 FM. April 2007 Makus Joined web based label NoCode Music as A&R.

Dana Do is the second half of Overdream. She joined the band September 2006. Being a professional writer, journalist and editor, she was always into electronic music, and especially psychedelic trance.

Back in 2002-2004 Dana lived active life in Odessa, Ukraine, being DJ (the only one psytrance girl dj on the local scene that time) and producer of psychedelic trance parties and events. In 2004 she was invited to move to Moscow, Russian Federation, and start working at the label, production studio and publishing house 'Emergency Exit'. There Dana took active part in promoting chill out projects like "Mungusid - Influence of Moonlight", "Tea ceremonies music", "Opium Ceremonies music", "Safety Magic-Safety Magic" as producer and some audio-visual media projects like "Dirty Eva's Diary", "Presnya Dialogues" etc as producer and lyrics writer. After moving to Kyiv (Ukraine) in summer 2006, Dana joined Overdream as composer, dj and producer, adding her magic flavor to the Overdream music and performance style.
The outcome of this collaboration is a super dancey night psychedelic production.

April 2006 Overdream has got a contract with Avatar Records.
In December 2008 their debuut album Wonderwise is released <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Overdream">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.