Artist Bio Modal_close_icon

Arising from Munich (Germany) OVER YOUR THRESHOLD was set up by Lukas Spielberger and Leonhard P. in 2006. In the year of 2007 drummer Julian Matejka joined the two guitarists and the band got its name and another essential basic-member. Since 2009 the musicians are accompanied by the talented bassist Christian Siegmund.

OVER YOUR THRESHOLD started playing live in 2007. After numerous gigs with renowned Death Metal bands like Obscura, Deadborn and Hokum, the band made a name for itself in the local metal-scene. OVER YOUR THRESHOLD is known for tight playing and an expressive performance at live-shows.

The first recod ‘PROGRESS IN DISBELIEF’ (EP) was self-released in 2008. Over the years the band’s concep of Death Metal gained ground and its actual sound is enriched with a great diversity of musical elements. Influenced by different Death Metal bands (reaching from the 80’s up to now) OVER YOUR THRESHOLD’s music combines progressive Death Metal with a bit of Thrash and some fusion components.

In 2011 OVER YOUR THRESHOLD entered the Woodshed Studio (Landshut, Germany) to record their first full-length album, entitled ‘FACTICITY’. The sound of FACTICITY is not only more blasting but also more technical, interspersed with energetic Death Metal riffing as well as melodic acoustic guitars. It’s enriched by brute blastbeats, some Thrash Metal, jazzy harmonics and also a smooth fretless bass. Furthermore the band recruited the guest musicians Steffen Kummerer (Obscura, Thulcandra) and Jonas ‘JoeC’ Fischer (Hokum, Ex-Obscura) to jazz up their debut album with their appearances. ‘FACTICITY’ was mixed and mastered by V. Santura (Triptykon, Dark Fortress).

In the beginning of 2012 the longtime member Leonhard P. left the band. He was replaced by Kilian Lau as new guitarist and Ludwig Walter as new vocalist. In the same year, after completing the new line-up, OVER YOUR THRESHOLD signed to Metal Blade Records to release their debut Album ‘FACTICITY’.

‘FACTICITY’ will be released August 24th/27th via Metal Blade Records!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Over+Your+Threshold">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.