There are numerous artists named Overlook...
1) An up and coming Drum & Bass producer named Jason Luxton:
With releases on Renegade Hardware, Samurai, 31 records, Horizons and architecture big things are going to come from this lad!
One third of Arma,Based in Bournemouth and head honcho of Mirrors Audio...

2) In 2005, brothers Billy and Timmy Roach formed the Philadelphia based alternative rock band Overlook. The band combines textured ambient guitars and synths with a driving rhythm section, providing         the ultimate backdrop for singer Billy Roach’s dynamic  vocal approach.  Producing lush soundscapes ranging from ambient to aggressive, their sound has been likened to accomplished acts such as Muse,Jeff Buckley, Radiohead, Arcade Fire and Coldplay.  Moody, intelligent songwriting is what sets Overlook apart from today’s influx of pre-fabricated pop acts dominating the airwaves.         Self recorded and self produced, their debut album “Smoke and Mirrors” is an ambitious 33-minute ride through diverse and introspective themes that resonate with a passion for song craftsmanship and a disdain for the commercialism of modern day society.  “Our main objective with this album was to offer an honest, fully realized body of work that evolves emotionally from one song to another” says singer Billy Roach.  Writing songs with modern day relevance and appeal, Overlook explores themes of confusion, lack of perspective, self-doubt, hope, and the need to be reminded of life’s beauty during these troubled times.        In the span of their existence, Overlook has been featured in local and national compilations, film soundtracks, music conferences and festivals.   The single off their first EP, "Don't Follow Me", was featured on 93.3 WMMR's Local Shots Volume 1, while the band most recently performed "The Life You Know" LIVE on Radio 104.5 FM. As of late, the band’s first single “Achey Arms” has been getting multiple plays on Philadelphia’s top alt/rock radio station, 104.5      <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Overlook">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.