Overtures are a melodic heavy metal band born in Gorizia in June 2003. The line-up is composed by Michele Guaitoli (voice), Marco Falanga (guitar), Daniele Piccolo (guitar), Luka Klanjscek (bass), and Andrea Cum (drums), who replaced Marko Klanjscek, former member, in August 2007. Overtures' first concert was in September 2003.

During the summer of 2006 Overtures started to record their first full-length album “Beyond The Waterfall”, which contains eight original songs: "Beyond the waterfall", "Toy", "Faded Dream", "Town of Desolation", "Silent Observer", "The Self-Pitier", "A Time of my Life", "Hideout"; for a total length of about 40 minutes. In May 2007 Overtures signed a contract with the Italian label "Videoradio" (www.videoradio.org).

In July 2008, one year after the Italian release of the album "Beyond The Waterfall", Overtures got in touch with "Rock It Up records" (www.rockitup.org) and signed a contract with the German label for the worldwide distribution of the CD. As a consequence of the deal with "Rock It Up Records", Overtures started a set of promotional shows both in Italy and Europe, playing in different Italian cities and in Holland, Austria, Switzerland, Hungary, Slovenia and other European countries. Songs taken from the album "Beyond The Waterfall" have been inserted in different European and Italian compilations and broadcast in many radio programs in Italy, U.S.A., Germany, England, Portugal and Brazil.

On November 13th 2009 the German label "Remedy Records" (www.remedyrecords.de) published "ReUnation - A Tribute To Running Wild", an official tribute album to the legendary German band. The album was released because of the dissolution of Running Wild and featured, among the others, also by Overtures with their version of "Pirate Song".

In October 2010 Overtures announced their passage to "Sleaszy Rider Records" (www.sleaszyrider.com), with whom they signed a new deal that links the two parts until 2013. The Greek label scheduled the release date of "Rebirth", second full-length of the band and first album with the new line-up on March 7th 2011. "Rebirth", mastered by "Mika Jussila" (Children of Bodom, Nightwish, HIM, Lordi, Edguy & altri) at "Finnvox Studios" in Helsinki, and with the artwork drew by "Michael Shindler" (Motorhead, Grave Digger, Mystic Circle, Creamtory & altri), contains the songs "Here we fall", "Fly Angel", "You can't spit on me", "Delirium", "Farewell", "Not too late", "The Prophecy", "My name is Fear", "Easy", "Daemons" and the bonus track "Not too late" in its acoustic version. As special guests on the album there are also "Rafahell" from "Elvenking" and "Akos Komodi" from "Halor". Before the release of the album Overtures also shot their first videoclip for the song "Fly, Angel".

After the release of "Rebirth" the management of the band is put in charge of agency "Extreme Agency" (www.extremeagency.org) in Italy and of the Brazilian agency "Insano Booking & Management" (www.insanobooking.com.br) worldwide. It also begins a minor deal with "Vivo Management"  (www.vivomanagement.it).

Concerning the live activity, besides to promotional concerts for the album "Beyond The Waterfall" and several shows at local festivals, in 2008 Overtures also featured as opening act in some dates of Elvenking's "The Scythe tour" and, during their career, they shared the stage with the already mentioned "Elvenking" and with "Primal Fear", "Blaze Bayley", "Pino Scotto", "White Skull", "Skanners", "Vision Divine", "Extrema", "Sinestesia", "Lincoln Quartet ft. Clive Bunker" (first Jethro Tull's drummer), "Delirium", "New Trolls", "Children of the Damned ft. Paul Di Anno" (Iron Maiden's first singer), "Domine", "Tystnaden", "Beer Bong", "Eldritch", "Mr.Pig", "Raintime", "Phatosray" and many others.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Overtures">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.