In early 2005 a project known as Key Steel was put together by the introducing of Ben Christ to a group of musically talented individuals. Key Steel was a project metal cover band consisting of Greg Zollman on rhythm guitar, Julian Minor on lead, Dustin Anderson on bass, Robert Broaddus on drums, and Ben Christ on vocals. Key steel performed one time before Ben Christ could no longer dedicate enough time to the band, soon after Dustin Anderson put his bass to rest and pursued another ambition, however the remaining musicians were eager to get something going again. Slightly prior to 2006 Exempt was born consisting of Greg Zollman on rhythm guitar, Julian Minor on lead, Robert Broaddus on drums, Brantly Nall on bass, and Ryan Preston on vocals. Exempt went on to writing originals and performing them live, Ben Christ was more than exited to attend these shows. Approaching the year 2007 Exempt suffered an unfortunate event that would change the definitive lineup indefinitely. Lead axe man, Julian Minor had no choice but to resign his position because of a family occurrence that forced him out of state over 500 miles, not long after this tragedy in its self, another bass player was off the roster, Brantly Nall decided he wasn’t fit for the duty of a metal bass player and continued to dedicate the rest of his time to another less heavy band. More hungry than ever to rise from their ashes, Ryan Preston decides to cut time in half, already being a skilled guitar player of 13 years, Ryan decides it would better to play and sing rather than find a new lead guitarist. That was one problem solved, still in need of a bass player drummer Robert Broaddus takes it upon himself to produce just that. He introduced the band to Jack Morley in early 07. Only a shadow of exempt still standing, the new lineup of thrash metal/power groove warriors had begun to ponder an new name for the quartet of metal madness, they went through various names performing as disruptor and other names across the map, that didn’t seem to fit just right. Ultimately the band would choose one name to stick, one name that would forever fit the bands epic sound as well as their "disire to rule the world" style antics, OVERTHRONE was born into this world, ready to evolve into a fierce metal machine, the guys would go on to create an epic sound not like any other in their performing parameters, spreading the name Overthrone like the plague, even as far away as Europe people would be shouting the name. In early 2008 a good friend who had always shown great interest in the band came forth to be the bands epic mascot. Ben Christ would rejoin arms with the band as the mighty "Overkeeper" , he gets the crowds pumped up and ready to rock, he helps out vocally and musically, he is quoted to “destroy anything against the throne” . Just as things were looking great for overthrone something happened in late 08 and early 09 that some say they saw coming. Robert Broaddus’ performing had been reduced to that of an amateur. His boozing was getting the best of him and the spark and desire to play in Overthrone had faded away, before they got to tell him to shape up or get out he politely resigned his position. An original warrior for Key Steel, Exempt, and the new found glory of Overthrone could no longer fight for metal. This would leave the guys distraught and trying to figure out how to move on. The Overkeeper how ever would be a success at coming through with an experienced metal skin basher. In mid 2009 Ben Christ had been thinking of who would be a fitting replacement for the former drummer, an idea in his head was a young man he knew from another local metal band. His name is Luis Lopez, and he just so happened to already know a few Overthrone tunes on drums. Luis was an excellent addition to Overthrone and has worked out more than great since his arrival. With vigorous practicing he has become better than everyone including himself had ever dreamed. 2010 brings us an even more epic addition to the band, Ryan Preston took it upon himself to find the missing link of Overthrone and a strong link he found. Bryan Slaughter joins overthrone on their quest to take over the Louisville metal scene, as well the rest of the world, bringing his fierce fingers into play joining as the bands quote "slayer of keys", an avid keyboardist Mr, Slaughter is honored to be a part of the Overthrone band of brothers. ALL HAIL TO THE THRONE!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Overthrone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.