There is more than one artist by this name.

1. Overight were a punk rock band from Québec, Canada that formed when four friends from Lévis decided to start off as Foodstuffs. Fourteen songs were recorded in less than eight months after the formation of the band. “Why Not?”, their first demo, was released in April 1995. Following the release of this first demo, the band got signed on Help Ray-Chords, a small punk label from Montréal. More than 500 copies of “Why Not?” were sold. In the meantime, Foodstuffs was touring a lot in Québec until the end of 1997. Those three years allowed Foodstuffs to record extra songs for some compilations such as “The Upper East Punk Stories”, on which we can find many other Québec punk rock bands. Some internal problems compelled the band to make some changes. First of all, the name of the band changed to Oversight. Except for one song, they gave up all Foodstuffs’ musical material with the aim of taking a different musical direction and improving their way of working. This new start gave Oversight enough motivation to compose new songs and play far more.


2. It's a familiar story... Three schoolmates form a band to have a laugh and get pissed. After three years of practising, they've so far managed to release a cd (with another one on the way), play gigs all over the northwest and above all else have a bloody good time playing songs they love to whoever will listen..

3. A 90';s Emotive Hardcore band from Syracuse, New York. They released a demo in 1991 and a 7" "After This Day" in1992 on Conquer the World Records. Members went on to Autumn Leaf Dance.

4. A half beat non-sex hardcore band from Strakonice (Czech Republic). 

5. An Italian streetpunk\oi band that made a split with the Prowlers(Canadian oi!).

6. Formerly Joe Bastard Oversight hails from Kent (UK), starting out as a DJ playing drum and bass at house parties and club nights in Canterbury, he now has residencies with several clubs/ promoters in Kent. 

His productions style crosses several genres, but the common theme being that his tunes are often described as being very “visual” and emotive. Often taking inspiration from glitchy and unusual sounds, he creates an audio soundscapes and tries to take the listener on a journey or evoke moods and emotions. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Oversight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.