Take a little rock ’n roll, a sniff o’ punk and a big spoon of hard rock, mix it all together and you get Overgrown! Ambitious, hardworking, up for everything and most of all not renewing are the best ways to define this band’s character. Their tunes have often been described as raw, heavy and addictive, but also balanced and unpredictable. ‘Kick ass riffs!’ mentioned Rockshit.nl, ‘Definitely check them live!’ added MusicfromNL and ‘Seems like they’re very good musicians’ complimented Poprock.nl. In the past three years OG wrote 3 releases by themselves; Overgrown Demo (2005) Endless Roads EP (2006) and their latest single Chill before serving (2007) It all started with 4 lads, a small attic and the passion for music. Since their establishment in 2004 Marty (Vocals/Bass) Jerry (Guitar) Jack (Drums) and Lex (Guitar) are working their asses off to reach their goals; Play as many gigs as they can and deliver a fine piece of rock music to the world. ‘Time is on my side’ were famous words sung by Jagger in the mid sixties. That sentence certainly applies to Overgrown now, because in a period of three years they managed to play over 40 shows and have just warmed up! Supporting great bands such as The Apers and Zebrahead in a sold out Tivoli were highlights. OG shared stages with Peter Pan Speedrock, Van Katoen, Intwine and Within Temptation. Venues as Mezz, Bibelot, Speakers, Tivoli, Waterfront and 013 have experienced the sweet tunes of Overgrown. And if that’s not enough, OG went to England and Wales in August 2007 for their self-organised UK Tour! Together with their North-Irish buddies of Ignition they've played shows in Coventry, Newport, Wakefield, Doncaster and London! The audience was very pleased and enthusiastic. From all these gigs and commentary they’ve learned a lot and have built a strong foundation for all that has to come, and of course we’re all sure that that’s going to be great! On this very moment Marty, Jerry, Jack and Lex are most likely gigging or writing for Overgrown’s first Full-length album and hopefully to release the piece of art somewhere in 2008. So stay tuned, we love ya.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Overgrown">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.