There is more than one artist with this name

1. Overload is a french melodic death metal band.
One must at least once in a lifetime face human sickness... so does Overload

The style and music of Overload arose since the very beginning, in 2006 : a powerful, agressive and melodic music with death metal-like vocals (violent, screamed, howled), supplemented with melodic clean background vocals, all packed up in a psycho and opressive design and touching apon a gloomy atmosphere.

This is how Overload's first album "Heartbreak System" emerged in the summer of 2006.

The feeback from press and listeners was apparent : Overload has his own style... which led it on the road for about 70 gigs in 3 years in France and abroad.

The heart of the first fullenght stopped beating... preparing for the new arrival.

2009 was the time to record Overload's second album, dealing with scyzophrenia and mental illness, mixed and masterised by K.Pandele in the Damage Room Studio located in Miami, FL.

Violent and melodic as hell, "The Imagery Process" is now achieved, bringing Overload crew to an european tour to make any venue the better place to be.


2. Overload is a rock/fusion band originating from Lahore, Pakistan, formed in 2004. The band are directed by founder and drummer Farhad Humayun. Since their inception, the group has released two albums, one self-titled, released in 2006 and Pichal Pairee (literally 'feet attached backwards' in Urdu), released on 14 August 2009. The first album was a No. 1 hit, while the second album, even though released exclusively online for free, still topped the charts locally.

Three songs from their debut album 'Overload' were released as singles: "Cursed", "Dhamaal" and "Storm". Two singles were also released from their second album 'Pichal Pairee'; "Pichal Pairee" and "Mela Kariye". The original line-up consisted of Farhad Humayun, Sheraz Siddiq, Hassan Mohyeddin, Pappu Sain & Jhoora Sain.[1] Pappu Sain, regarded as the greatest Dhol player in the world, left the band due to ill health. Pappue Saeein was suffering from acute diabetes, and claustrophobia, which limited air travel. He was replaced by Nasir Sain. Hassan Mohyeddin exited from the band and pursued an education in Tabla and music roduction.

3. Overload (超载) is a Thrash Metal/Alternative/Pop-Rock band from Beijing, China. They were formed in 1991. Their debut album, released in 1996, is considered a milestone in Chinese Thrash Metal.

4. UK Oi!/Punk band with some compilation appearances and a CD titled Godkiller released on Mother Fucking Sounds in 2011.

5. Mike Connelly's (ex Wolf Eyes, Hair Police, Yellow Gas Flames) Power Electronics project. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Overload">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.