There are three artists that use this name:

1. An emotive house DJ based in Chicago, IL.
2. An Oi band started in 1992
3. A moniker for Bobby "Raw" Anderson (from Jack's Mannequin)

 1.  Oxblood is a 21-year old Chicago-bred DJ who has released music on Cascine, Gold River Ent., and Brooklyn Fire. His video for his debut single, "How Long Is Forever", has received over 100,000 plays on YouTube. He has worked with artists such as Korallreven, Mikey Dollaz and Aten Rays, and has been remixed by Sinden and the Svens.

2. Oxblood began playing in New York City in 1992. They are known to be one of the most violent Oi bands around.

The band started out in 1992. There was not much of an oi scene in nyc at the time. Some bands came and went until four die hards members, tired of no shows, no bands, but so much oi in their blood to start a band for themselves, and embark onto a journey that still continues today. A band that would go down and still is in the history of oi as the most infamous, angry, violent band around. In the beginning, the line-up consisted of Harry drums, Paul bass, Mac guitar, frank vocals. Harry left the band to pursue his tattooing career in 1994. Frank left right after that to pursue his Psychobilly band(TR6).So Mac jumped on vocals.Kev joined the band on drums in Febuary of '96.After Frank's departure of the band in '94,he returned to his duties as the original vocalist in March of '08. The current line up consist of Frank on vocals, Paul on bass, Kevin on guitar/drums and Alex (Carnage Krew,Fed Up,Offensive Weapon)on drums/guitar.This is the last and final line up from here on out... In spite of their reputation, rumors and setbacks that they have encountered throughout the years, Oxblood is still alive and kicking. The gods of of oi are looking upon them and guiding them through thick & thin to the path of victory. Hated & proud themes on our lyrics are a reflection of our everyday skinhead life in New York City. We sing about things we go through, like violence, being locked up, the New York Police Department, working by chance not by choice etc. Unlike other bands we don't just sing about it, we actually live it. We do many covers in our sets by bands like Criminal Class - soldier, Combat 84 - violence, Brutal Combat - skinhead, Sham 69, 4skins, & other early oi French bands. Rose Tattoo-remedy etc


Current lineup:
vocals - Mac
bass - Paul
guitar - Dave
drums - Kevin

Previous lineup:
vocals - Frank
bass - Paul
guitar - Mac
drums - Harry

3. Oxblood or Bob Oxblood is a band formed by Bobby "Raw" Anderson, formerly of Jack's Mannequin. 

After Andrew McMahon retired the Jack's Mannequin moniker and began touring under his own name, he encouraged Bobby Raw to pursue a solo career and helped him produce oxblood EP released May 12, 2013.

His music can be heard on his site: www.boboxblood.com.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Oxblood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.