There are several bands/acts know by this name:
1) Ozone- Hardcore band from Fort Worth, Texas
2) Ozone -  70s Motown funk band
3) Ozone - Swedish DJ/producer Jepzer Söderlund
4) O-zone - Romanian dance group and also O-zone is pseudonym of Patrick de Meyer
5) Ozone - American 70's/80's funk band
6) Ozone -  Brazilian Hard'n'Heavy all-girl rock group
7) Ozone - Pseudonym of psytrance producer Andrew Ostroff from Melbourne, Australia

Ozone is a hardcore band from Fort Worth, Texas that has two releases out, the first a self-titled released in 2020, and the second "Ozone 2" released in 2021

"Ozone" was a funk band signed to Motown. The band was formed in 1977 and backed up soul diva Teena Marie while releasing albums of mediocre success. They were disbanded after their last album Glasses, which was released in 1983. 

The next musician behind Ozone (without -) is Jepzer Söderlund, better known as Airbase, a Swedish Trance DJ/Producer. In '96 Jezper made a remix under the name Ozone for the track "Do You Remember" by Bong. Later in 2002, Jezper produced the single "Ionize". This was released under Misja Helsloot's label First Second Records which contains a remix by Misja himself, and another by Jezper (this time as The Scarab). After "Ionize" came "Rock" (a remix to the theme of the 1996 movie "The Rock" starring Sean Connery), this time with remixes from Inzite, Oracle, Three Drives and Alex M.O.R.P.H.. The next Ozone release wasn't until 2006 when we got "Q", featuring a remix from Andy Bagguley, who previously remixed "Rock" in the Oracle project.

O-zone, with a hyphen; there are several people who used this name. The first one was Patrick de Meyer. Back in 1993 he released a track under the name o-zone called break free.
But most people remember O-zone as the group from Romania with the single Dragostea Din Tei. Actually Dragostei Din tei was released in 2001 under the Scandinavian label bonner amigo music group. It got re-released in 2004 and it became a famous song. The follow up was Despre Tine, which became also a popular song. Next to this they released their album DiscO-zone, back in 2004. 
The group consists of: Arsenie, Radu and Dan. Arsenie (bass/vocals), Dan (vocals/guitar) and Radu (drums/vocals).

There was also an American funk band in the late 70's/early 80's (formed in 1977) named Ozone (without -).

Ozone was as well name of all-girl hard rock band influenced by hair/heavy metal and glam rock hailing from Sao Paulo, Brazil. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ozone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.