1) P Money is a highly favoured MC within the Grime scene. He began his career within the crew Fatal Assassins along with MC's such as Little Dee, Blacks and others from the Blue Borough area of South London. During these times P Money was known for his fast, skippy flow which created plenty of hype when attending pirate radio shows. He attended many classic studio sets such as those from the Hazzardous Sessions series and also Fuck Radio volume 5. He gained a lot of positive attention with the massive single "What Did He Say", which has since been released on Vinyl and digital download, as well as the title being used as a slogan for a line of T shirts. He is currently a member of the crew OGs and was involved with the collective's first release, OG Season.

His first release was a Free Download project titled Coins 2 Notes which dropped at the start of 2008. It is well liked due to his fast skippy flow being used on many tracks, something which he changed for his future releases. It features producers such as Rude Kid, Joker and many more, as well as many MC features.

Since then P Money's work rate has been very high with the release of two further projects in September 2008. One was a further Free Download called A Little Back Then With Now featuring MC's such as Little Dee, Desperado and Tempman. Producers such as Skepta, Dot Rotten and Wiley are included and it is mixed by DJ Pester.

As well as this he also dropped his debut shop release entitled P Money Is Power on the 29th of September. This mix cd included MC's such as Blacks, Ice Kid and Little Dee. The producers involved included Dot Rotten, Crayzee Bandit and Mr Slash. This mixcd included well-received tracks such as Sounds and Gimmicks and the remix for What Did He Say, for which a video was shot. There is also a video for the tune London Boy from this CD.

On the 7th September 2009 P Money released his second mixcd titled Money Over Everyone. It has been very well received by fans, hailed as release of the year by many. There are many big name features such as Wiley, Frisco and fellow OG's members Blacks & Little Dee on vocals, and the producers include Silencer, Rude Kid, Scratcha, Maniac & many more. P Money once again delivered many original ideas for tunes on this CD such as the clever yet still hype 1UP and Fruits & Veg, as well as Hot Ones, which features Blacks and Little Dee spitting each others bars.

P Money is known for going to radio on a much more consistant basis than many MC's in the grime scene. He can often be heard on DJ JJ Rinse FM show on early Monday mornings at 1-3am. If you are looking for some P Money sets, make sure you check out his two Logan Sama sets from 2009 Here and Here as well as the many appearances with DJ JJ Here in the folder titled "DJ JJ (rinse FM)".

Releases

    * Coins 2 Notes
    * A Little Back Then With Now
    * P Money Is Power
    * Money Over Everyone

2) P-Money is New Zealand’s most renowned Producer/DJ. His incredible talents in the studio and behind the decks have made him not only a household name in NZ but an artist to watch internationally.

P-Money earnt his stripes via the DJ Battle/ Turntablist scene in the early 2000′s (3rd place at the Technics DMC World Championships in 2001) then moved on to producing mega-hits for New Zealand rap stars (Scribe “Not Many”, “Stand Up”, “Stop The Music” & Deceptikonz “Stop, Drop n Roll”), collaborating with international heavyweights (Akon “Keep On Calling” , Skillz, Sauce Money, Roc Raida, Bobby Creek and Joell Ortiz) and releasing his own platinum and double platinum albums (‘Big Things’ and ‘Magic City’).

With a solid track record behind him P-Money still never fails to surprise and surpass expectations as evidenced by the recent release of his runaway NZ #1 hit single “Everything” (ft. Vince Harder). Which scored heavy rotation on UK radio waves and underground club play around the world. It’s an instant dancefloor classic with a heavy 90′s House influence and a killer hook.

P-Money’s DJ sets are known to include a good serving of Hip-Hop and Dance music and its the combination of these influences that shape his latest productions.

P-Money released his third and most recent album entitled “Everything” on May 3rd 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/P+Money">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.