Hometown: Los Angeles
http://www.facebook.com/pdpmusic
http://www.pdpmusic.com
Genre : Progressive Metal/Thrash/Groove Metal

Members :
Greg Harrison - Guitar/Vocals
Dane Markanson - Guitar
Ro Batres - Drums
Aldo Rodriguez - Bass

Formed within the halls of Hollywood’s prestigious Musician’s Institute, PDP ascended to the top of L.A.’s metal charts in less than a year. Today, the progressive power-groove quintet is acquiring a national fan-base at an astonishing rate on the web where the band has established an enviable presence. PDP’s success lies in the band’s commitment to unadorned groove based metal, mixed with new school creativity, making them one of the tightest progressive metal bands around. PDP’s performances are stripped of the makeup, props and theatrics that posers and less talented performers rely upon. The result is akin to comparing a kitchen faucet to a fire-hose and explains why PDP has such a devoted following at its live shows.

The band’s debut full length album, Mass Delusion, released August 2nd, 2011 under Heavyocity Records, was a highly anticipated follow up to 3 exclusive Mayhem Festival EP’s. Always hungry, never satisﬁed, and with an uncompromised work ethic, PDP is always busy and moving forward to get any and all new material out to the fans. During the recording of their full length album they managed to shoot and release 2 music videos, write an instructional book & DVD under the Hal Leonard Corporation, write columns for Guitar World & Premier Guitar Magazine, and play the 2011 NAMM Show. During this time they also maintained plenty of radio play throughout the greater Los Angeles area including stations such as: Liquid Metal Sirius XM, KXSC.org/1560am, KXLU.com/88.9fm, WPMD.org, Pandora, powerhousemix.net, radiobuzzd.com, and many more.

In the summer of 2011 PDP guitarists Greg Harrison & Dane Markanson (instructors at Musicians Institute) were featured at the Revolver Magazine/Musicians Institute tent for the fourth consecutive year at The RockStar Mayhem Festival performing Shred Clinics and promoting the new album. They performed alongside acts such as: Megadeth, Unearth, Suicide Silence, All Shall Perish, Dethklok, and many others. Always fan oriented, PDP plans on spending their time outside of the studio touring around the world to bring their music to the masses.

PDP is currently co headlining a full U.S. west coast tour and has recently performed at the Sunset Strip Music Festival alongside Motley Crue and Bush. While on the road they will be recording their second album. PDP will continue to push the bar to new levels by utilizing custom 9 and 10 string guitars. The bands influence of classical composers like Paganini & Bach as well as progressive metal artists like Meshuggah & Despised Icon make these instruments a necessity. The bands founder Greg Harrison says "…If I'm not putting' out exactly whats in this filthy brain, then there's no point in me even doin' what I'm doin'…if it's not sincere, then it's not honest." And thats exactly what PDP is...honest brutality!


-"GIT graduate and now instructor Greg Harrison, hits all the right notes-and then some...Harrison can walk his talk!" - MM (Guitar Edge Magazine)

-"These dudes never cease to amaze. Especially when it comes down to the heaviness, they offer remarkable riffing and solos!" - Chris Aiken (Strung Out)

-"PDP is pure brutality!" - Pepe Clarke Magaña (Ankla, Kyng)

-"Holy Goddamn! 'Mass Delusion' is absolutely brilliant!" - Trev (Hard Rock Radio)

-"Shred Clinic Virtuosi." - Revolver Magazine





 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/P.D.P.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.