There are currently four artists using this name:
1) American alternative hip-hop musician.
2) Finnish trance artist.
3) Australian speedcore band
4) Belgian Hardcore/Punk Band

1) P.O.S (born Stefon Alexander) is an alternative hip-hop musician from Minnesota. He is a also a member of the alternative rap collective Doomtree. His rapping style is heavily influenced by punk bands such as Kid Dynamite, Black Flag and Fugazi. 

Alexander began playing punk rock in middle school. He started rapping in his mid-teens, and has combined his love of the genres to create himself a category. In 2004, the midwest hip hop label Rhymesayers Entertainment re-released his debut, Ipecac Neat and his sophomore release, Audition, in 2006.  2009 brings us Never Better, the newest album from P.O.S, out on Rhymesayers Entertainment.

P.O.S is an original artist, combining heartfelt and meaningful lyrics with powerful melodies on various instruments. P.O.S is also a member of Doomtree and Building Better Bombs and Cadillac Blindside.

P.O.S can stand for a various amount of acronyms. Pissed Off Stef, Promise of Stress, Promise of Skill, Piece of Shit, and Product of Society are all common names he cites. He states that the name holds a new meaning with every day.

2) P.O.S. is also the name used by Paavo Olavi Siljamäki, member of Above & Beyond in his solo releases.

Paavo spends most of his waking hours with a computer in front of him, either surfing the net or, more usually, making music. One Autumn night last year he was awake and doodling, remembering the summer parties he'd enjoyed in the UK and, at home in Finland. Struck by a fit of inspiration he put on his headphones, plugged them into his G4 Powerbook and worked through the night on a track which ended up as his first debut single. "Remember (Summer Sun)" was released on an EP with "Amnesiac". Both proved popular in clubland, but it is "Remember (Summer Sun) that has achieved anthem status, containing as it does "one of the most gorgeous chord changes ever" according to Tony.

The second P.O.S single "Gravity" caused a similar storm, if not bigger and ended up on Tiesto's acclaimed ISOS compilation amongst others.

Paavo is also a member of Above & Beyond, OceanLab, Aalto, Dirt Devils, Free State and Tranquility Base etc.

(From www.anjunabeats.com - all rights reserved)

3) P.O.S is also the name used by Passenger of Shit (australian speedcore). He rarely uses this alias.

4) Belgian Hardcore/Punk Band <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/P.O.S.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.