pacificUV is frequently categorized as utilizing elements of Dream-pop, Post-Rock, Shoegaze, and Space Rock. The band was formed in Athens, Georgia, United States in 1998. Founding members include Howard Hudson, Clay Jordan, and Lucas Jensen. Their first full-length record (titled Longplay 1 when originally pressed on CD, but later renamed with an eponymous title) was released on WARM Recordings in 2002, and was produced by Andy LeMaster (member of Now It's Overhead).

After a national tour, and nearly universal acclaim for their debut record (including praise from Rolling Stone Magazine, who called the album a "masterpiece"), the initial formation of the band dissolved. Jordan relocated to Portland and enlisted the help of Kevin Davis (of Glowworm), Jesse Robert W. (also of Glowworm), Mike Erwin (formerly of 7 Years in Space) and Matt Kline. Shortly after the Portland lineup was solidified, WARM released a 4-song EP featuring three unreleased tracks and an Eluvium  remix of L.A.P.D. vs N.Y.P.D.

In February of 2008, the band released their second full-length LP, titled Longplay 2 (2008). The record features vocals by Carolyn Berk (of Lovers ) and the artwork of Chris A'lurede. Longplay 2 (2008) received praise from SPIN, NPR, and Pitchfork, and the album opener, "Alarmist", was featured prominently in the "Californication" season three finale. 

Soon after relocating to Athens, Georgia, Clay Jordan announced that pacificUV's third full-length, titled "Weekends", Weekends would be released on January 31, 2012. "Weekends" Weekends featured guest appearances by such Athens luminaries as Elephant 6 cellist Heather McIntosh, B.P. Helium (of Montreal) and John Fernandez (Olivia Tremor Control), and found the band embracing a more melodic, electronic direction while maintaining the opulent, ethereal production aesthetic for which they are known.

"After the Dream You Are Awake", pacificUV's fourth full-length, was announced with SPIN's premiere of the album's first single, "24 Frames" in early March. "After the Dream You Are Awake" will be released on May 14, 2013 on the Athens, Georgia label imprint Mazarine Records.       <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pacific+UV">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.