Pain for Pleasure is the alter-ego band of Canadian punk rock band Sum 41. As Pain for Pleasure, they play classic heavy metal music. Officially, the band was disbanded as with Dave Baksh's (aka Pleasure) departure; Pleasure is said nowhere to be seen, and Pain is dead. Sum 41 still performs songs by "Pain for Pleasure" live, although without their Heavy metal fashion. came up with the idea for their other image, including the name. The band liked the name and chose it for their alter-ego, which was created to play the music preferences of Dave Baksh and Jocz. The name is a possible reference to the Judas Priest song 'Pain And Pleasure', and the song "Pain for Pleasure" sounds similar to the Iron Maiden song "Killers".

"Pain for Pleasure" has appeared in several videos by Sum 41, including "Fat Lip" from the album All Killer No Filler, "We're All to Blame" from the album Chuck, and the bonus DVD from the album Does This Look Infected?, where they performed live on stage in their heavy metal fashion, as well as appearing in a musical documentary about their history. The DVD was entitled "Cross Your T's and Gouge your Eyes" They also performed on Sum 41's MTV Jammed appearance, performing the songs "Holy Diver" (Dio cover), The Trooper (Iron Maiden cover) and "Pain for Pleasure".

Band Members
Pain (Steve Jocz) - Lead Vocals
Sniper (Cone McCaslin) - Bass
Gunner (Deryck Whibley) - Drums
Pleasure (Dave Baksh) - Guitar

The band broke up in 2006. The originally hailed from Ajax, Ontario, Canada and where created around 2000.

Following Dave Baksh's departure from Sum 41, the future for Pain for Pleasure is unclear. Cone has made it official that Pleasure has left Pain for Pleasure as well. The future for the band seems bleak, having lost one of its key members; the Ajax band, however, may return for a home show in the future called "Return From Hell". In the thanks section on Sum 41's new album, Underclass Hero, one of the bands thanked is "Pain 4 Pleasure." However, the band played live at the Q101 Block Party in June 2007.

Currently, Pain for Pleasure can be only seen performing live, yet after Dave Baksh's departure, Sum 41 has never performed with Pain for Pleasure's Heavy metal fashion on, although they perform the song "Pain for Pleasure" every single live show.

Sum 41's Touring guitarist, Tom Thacker, performs on Guitar while the band plays the song live. Sometimes the band brings special guests to play guitar, e.g. Ian D'Sa from Billy Talent.

The DVD documentary says that in 2003, Pain died of Alchohol Poisoning. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pain+for+Pleasure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.