Come on, everybody knows "OK I RELOADED!" proclaims Pain in da Ass, the famous voice of Jay-Z's albums, is proud to be part of hip-hop history! PainindaAss started from the bottom up, handing out flyers. It wasn't until a chance meeting with Roc-A-Fella Records, Damon Dash, that Pain truly found his niche. "I started off as an intern and in tern I turned into something else.", Pain was known to tick people off at the start of the label. Luckily for him, the tactic seemed to work as Pain was given the chance to do the intro on Jay-Z's classic album "Reasonable Doubt". "I just did it. I didn't think anything of it, I mean come on who really gives a f*** about skits on a album." But Pain was wrong as Jay-Z would open up his shows with the now famous line "OK I RELOADED!" After the success of Reasonable Doubt, other artists soon came calling becoming a major commodity in the Music Industry. Pain has worked with the likes of Ice Cube, Queen Latifah, Fabolous, Jay-Z, and all the Roc-A-Fella artists. Known as the best sounding Tony Montana, he was asked to participate in the Scarface 20th anniversary DVD, where he can be seen on "Making of a Hip-Hop Classic," a documentary that chronicles the effect of the movie on the hip-hop genre. However, Pain's talents don't end at Tony Montana impersonations. He is also an actor, and can be seen in "Streets is Watching", "State Property" and he recently wrapped "Gotta Get Mine". Pain re-connected with Jay-Z on the "Volume 2: Hard Knock Life". Pain's voice can be heard as he utters the famous words "F***YOU PAY ME!,"instantly becoming part of the hip-hop vocabulary and can be seen on various apparel. After 15 years of experience in the Industry, there are many more exciting projects to come. With a budding acting career and appearing on multi-platinum albums, I guess he wasn't lying when he said, " Here comes the PAIN!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pain+In+Da+Ass">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.