PAIN LINK is a unique blend of classic metal, thrash metal, and metalcore. They mix several different styles together to form a sound that appeals to a wide variety of metal fans. Pain Link honors the groundwork laid by the metal forefathers while embracing the future of heavy music with open arms.

Pain Link's major influences include bands from various times and subgenres. Old school influences include Iron Maiden, Judas Priest, Testament, Slayer, and Pantera to name just a few. Modern influences include bands such as Lamb of God, Shadow's Fall, God Forbid, Chimaira, and many more.

In the spring of 2003, Pain Link released their self-titled debut effort in the form of a seven-song demo. The band wrote, recorded, and produced the album in its entirety. Since its release, the band has distributed over 2500 copies both locally and abroad. The release has received airplay on several conventional radio stations, and countless internet stations, where it has been well received.

There has not been a single member change in Pain Link since its formation - a testament to the band's strong bond and work ethic. The insatiable drive of this band has led them through 200+ shows in the past 3 years including many opening slots for national acts such as Metal Church, Macabre, Three Inches of Blood, Psyopus, Into the Moat, Animosity, Summer's End, and Vampire Moose. During this time they have focused on a regional following, scheduling shows in Cincinnati and in the surrounding areas of the Midwest. In 2004 Pain Link won the "Bogart's Rumble", which is the largest talent contest in the city of Cincinnati encompassing bands from all genres. In December 2005, Pain Link was nominated for two Cincinnati Entertainment Awards in the following categories: Best Hard Rock/Metal Act & Best Live Act. Although ambitious, the band is also compassionate and socially aware. Consequently, they have participated in several fund raising benefit shows for various local and global causes.

Pain Link released their first full-length album The Burden of Sin in January 2005. With this latest effort, the band has reached a new level of musical maturity with their stylistic approach to the merging of classic thrash and metalcore. Pain Link feels a bond with the fans due to the subject matter of the band's lyrics, and that bond has been taken to greater heights. Drawing off of personal struggles, societal issues, and the attitudes of the metal subculture, Pain Link addresses issues that younger & older fans alike can relate to. In December 2005, The Burden of Sin was named one of the "Top Local Releases of 2005" in Cincinnati music newspaper City Beat. The Burden of Sin is currently available at TowerRecords.com, BestBuy.com, CDBaby.com, Akomprod.com, PeaceorDieRecords.com, PainLink.net, and over 30 of the top digital download sites such as iTunes, Rhapsody, Sony Connect, MSN Music, etc.

Currently, Pain Link is booking shows within a 400-mile radius of Cincinnati. Dates in New York, Indianapolis, Dayton, Lima, and Louisville are already confirmed for the spring & summer and more are being added to the schedule at a steady pace. In between appearances, the band is working on material for their upcoming video enhanced E.P. In a very short time Pain Link has become one of Cincinnati's best and most professional metal acts. Now they wish to set their scope on the Midwest as a whole while shopping their new material to labels that embrace heavy music.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pain+Link">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.