Metal Mike leads his own solo endeavor Metal Mike's PAINMUSEUM whose debut album Metal For Life enjoyed much attention and critical acclaim from the Metal community. Metal For Life has seen a worldwide 2005 release through Demolition Records via Universal Music Distribution/ UMVD. Metal For Life is mixed by Roy Z. (Judas Priest, Bruce Dickinson, Helloween, Halford) and the musician line-up features Metal Mike's Halford stage mate Bobby Jarzombek, (Halford, Iced Earth, Sebastian Bach), Steve DiGiorgio (Testament, Sadus, Death) and vocal power demon Tim Clayborne. Rave reviews met the release across the globe with a prominent German publication HEAVY Oder Was? concluding PainmuseuM to be a band that finally delivered an album in the tradition of Pantera's Vulgar Display Of Power and Machine Head's Burn My Eyes. Any questions? A scholarship graduate of Berklee College of Music, Metal Mike has released 3 critically acclaimed solo instrumental albums Grind Textural Abstraction (1996), Territory: Guitar Kill!! (2000) and The Spilling (2001).

During Rob Halford's return to Judas Priest, Mike joined Bay Area Thrash legends TESTAMENT for a 2004 tour where the band hit major festivals all over Europe and Scandinavia sharing bills with Alice Cooper, Scorpions, Motorhead and Judas Priest. Mike concluded then an already stellar line-up of Chuck Billy, Eric Peterson, Steve DiGiorgio and former Slayer, current Exodus drummer Paul Bostaph.

In 2005 Metal Mike has joined forces with SEBASTIAN BACH, the voice of multi-platinum SKID ROW. After successful European festival tours sharing bills with Motley Crue, Dio and Accept, Sebastian Bach armed with Metal Mike tapped producer Roy Z. (Judas Priest, Halford, Bruce Dickinson) and entered California's famed Sound City Studios to record Sebastian's new studio release tentatively titled Angel Down. Angel Down is due out this year.

A lot earlier than some might have expected, Heavy Metal world received surprising news that Metal Mike once again has reunited with the Metal God for a new HALFORD studio album. In addition to the album, Metal Mike appeared in the new 2006 HALFORD video Forgotten Generation from the Metal God Essentials Volume 1 release via Halford's own Metal God Entertainment. Metal God Entertainment has also brought us reissues of the now classic HALFORD albums as well as Silent Screams EP, Forgotten Generation single and the up-coming live Halford DVD: Halford - Live In Rio.

Mid 2006, Metal Mike's PAINMUSEUM delivered us another stellar release You Have The Right To Remain Violent, an enhanced EP released exclusively via Mike's own imprint C.M.M. Entertainment. Remaining of 2006 saw Metal Mike as busy as ever. Immediately following PAINMUSEUM's headlining East Coast Violence 2006 tour, Mike has joined SEBASTIAN BACH on the Japanese festival tour along Kiss, Alice In Chains, Steve Vai and the arena ridden sold-out Guns N' Roses North American, Canadian and European treck where AXL ROSE himself has invited the SEBASTIAN BACH band as the support. Reaching close to a million people and stopping at the sold-out venues of London's Wembley Arena and New York City's Madison Square Garden, the tour was among the highest grossing and attended of 2006.

In 2007, Metal Mike has introduced Ridiculous Riffs For The Terrifying Guitarist and Monster Coordination – Guitar Boot Camp guitar instruction books. Quickly embraced by heavy metal minded guitarists across the world the publications are comprehensive teaching guides for dedicated rockers at all levels.

While there are many hopefuls, Metal Mike holds his fist firmly on the guitar throne of the new millennium.

Check out PAINMUSEUM's Speak The Name video below. Found on the You Have The Right To Remain Violent release, the video was filmed and edited by Evil Eye Productions and directed by Todd Gukelberger.

Todd is the former drummer of 80's underground thrash legends
Prime Evil, as well as a previous member of the mighty NY Implode, and unsung heroes Dissolve. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PainmuseuM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.