Pair-A-Dyce started on hip-hop message boards in the early 2000s after seeing his older brother participate in internet rap groups and form a crew. After a year in college, Dyce dropped out and moved to Texas, where he started to take music more seriously after watching the Houston network of artists gain attention from major labels. It wasn’t until 2009, after an uneventful stint in a struggling studio, that he was able to gain an internship with Houston super producer Mr. Lee (Jay-Z, Do or Die, Scarface, Slim Thug, Paul Wall, Z-Ro, UGK, etc.). While working under Mr. Lee as an intern, Pair-A-Dyce learned how professional work was done by taking part in the recording process of Slim Thug’s Tha Thug Show album, receiving recording engineering credits for his work. Afterward, he also enrolled in Mr. Lee’s XMG School of Music and Business Mixing and Mastering classes to understand better how to create cleaner sounds in his work.

Since releasing his first official album, Heavy Crown, in 2016, Pair-A-Dyce has reconnected with some of the familiar names from rap forums he once frequented to build a community, White Collar Rhymes. Dyce stays busy helping to implement the group’s technical needs and working as an intern at Audiomack, producing beats, mixing, and mastering songs for White Collar Rhymes. His goal with the community is to make it a hub where hobbyists can feel like they are relevant in the music business and also a place for fans to discover artists who are not prominently featured on other platforms.

Pair-A-Dyce’s musical style focuses on story-telling songs about interpersonal relationships, struggles with the music business, and witty harmonies on instrumentals. His musical influences include Chamillionaire, Royce da 5’9”, Tupac, Michael Jackson, and other various acts.

Age
37
Hometown
Jacksonville, FL
Music
 https://songwhip.com/pair-a-dyce 
Socials
 https://app.mediakits.com/pair-a-dyce  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pair-A-Dyce">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.