There are multiple artists using this name.

1. PALADIN were formed in 1970 by drummer Keith Webb and keyboard player Pete Soley. Having toured with the Rolling Stones as backing musicians, they decided the time was right to unleash their own creativity. Ex “WORLD OF OZ” bassist Peter Beckett, GLASS MENAGERIE/GRISBY DYKE keyboard player Lou Stonebridge, and GRISBY DYKE guitarist Derek Floey were brought in to complete the line up. 

Initially, the band’s influences were jazz, Latin, soul, blues, afro-Cuban, the dual keyboards creating a unique sound. They list their early fans as including Jon Anderson (Yes). After building a credible live reputation, the band signed for Gerry Bron’s Bronze label, and recorded their first album “live” in the studio. The album includes early examples of World and Rap (!), but failed to make much of an impression, and consequently is now rare and collectable in vinyl format.

The follow up album “Charge!” was released a year later. It had an excellent Roger Dean sleeve, and represented a major improvement on the rather lacklustre debut album. “Charge!” explored interesting progressive rock areas, combining folk influences (“Watching The World Pass By”) with rock and roll (“Well We Might”), and psychedelic rock (“Mix Your Mind With The Moonbeams”). The diverse style of the album make it difficult to pinpoint influences, but there’s a bit of Genesis, BJH, Uriah Heep and possibly Jethro Tull. 

The band only released the two albums, before their lack of success led to frustration, and they disbanded in 1972. Lou Stonebridge found success with MCGUINNESS FLINT, while Pete Soley formed SNAFU with Mickey Moody. Peter Beckett joined the band PLAYER as vocalist, and Keith Webb found work as drummer with various outfits.

2. PALADIN, a garage punk band from Saugus Massachusetts played around the Boston Rock scene in the early 1980's.
Formed by the merging of two bands THE GROUP (AKA Group Grope) and THE MINSTREL BAND (AKA The Meunstral Band).  Paladin consisted of Chuck Indorato (The Group, later of Sunset Blvd, Berklee), Frank D'Urso (The Sex Maniacs, The Group, later of Sunset Blvd, The Premonition, Roman The Edge, The House Band, Green Street Open Jam Band, The Chandler Travis Philharmonic, The Neovoxer Ensemble, John Stone's Inn Blues Jam Band, The D'Urso's, The Patans, The Svenson's), Dan D'Urso (The Group, later of Shoemaker, Ruby Lips, Rhinotitus Orchestra), Rick Otte (The Minstral Band, later of The Misfits), Tim MacCauley (The Minstral Band) and Gary Miles (007, Joshua Hayes).
Paladin attempted a one gig reunion a few years ago, and just recently set forth in the studio for their 30th year reunion in 2012.

3. PALADIN were formed in 2013 and  play a sub-genre of power metal that focuses on choral arrangements, neoclassical influence and excessive use of organs. Inspired heavily by Armoured Saint, Iced Earth, Nightwish and Powerwolf, the female fronted duo are known for performing in armour. 

4. Fast, melodic, and technical, Atlanta’s Paladin is on a mission to bring some European flavor to the city’s metal scene and beyond. The foursome blends soaring vocals, harsh rasps, catchy melodies, and fiery guitar work reminiscent of the 80s to create their own brand of thrashy power metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paladin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.