Palace In Thunderland was formed by Andy Beresky (guitar/vocals), Monte Newman (guitar/vocals), and Adam Abrams (bass/keyboards) as a new musical entity after the three had worked together in the Western Massachusetts indie rock band Skyball.  Andy and Monte began working on the initial material around 1998, focusing on a heavier and more psychedelic sound.  Newman left for school in Florida, and the two were left with only a rough demo tape of two songs, "Sonic Throne" and "Into The Maelstrom."   Between 1998-2000, Beresky continued writing and brought in Abrams to help flesh out new arrangements.  When Newman returned to Western Massachusetts in 2000, all three resumed rehearsals and writing, and eventually John Belcastro was added on drums.  The initial material was heavily influenced by older acts such as Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd, and Hawkwind, and also brought in more modern influences from the growing stoner rock movement of the time, such as Monster Magnet, Kyuss, and Queens of the Stone Age.  The defining feature of the music, however, remained the melodic guitar work that Beresky and Newman had cultivated from the influence of 90's alternative rock bands like Smashing Pumpkins, Soundgarden, and Fugazi.

The new incarnation was named Palace In Thunderland after a famous satirical line written by the poet Dylan Thomas.  An early four song demo recorded by the band featured the songs "Sonic Throne", "Into The Maelstrom", "Last Trip To The Sun", and an old Skyball song, "Seep."

The first release, Into The Maelstrom, came out in 2001 after a chaotic studio session at Slaughterhouse Recording Studio in Amherst.  Seven songs were recorded and mixed in three days, and the result is a mostly live, analog documentation of the band's development at that time.  The band performed live both locally and regionally.

Eventually Belcastro left the band due to personal conflict, and the remaining members went on a hiatus.  Beresky had already begun writing for a second release, a concept album which would feature more technical playing and progressive songwriting.  Matt Schraut was briefly added on drums, and played one festival at which most of Beresky's gear was stolen.  Once again the band went on a hiatus, and eventually Schraut was replaced by Dennis Moulton.

Live performances resumed, until Moulton also left the band.  Matt Netto was brought in on drums, and the band began work on a double album, The Apostles Of Silence.  The album was engineered by Justin Pizzoferratu, and recorded at Mad Oak Studios, Wooly Mammoth Studios, and Bank Row Studio.  It centered around a musical motif developed in three separate instrumental passages, and lyrically explored concepts of choice versus fate and hope versus despair.  Deeply existential, Beresky culled key quotes from the writings of philosopher Soren Kierkegaard for use as song titles and lyrics.

Ultimately, the double album was too ambitious for the band.  With limited time and resources, the album was never finished, mastered, or officially released.  Frustrated with both the album and his own tumultuous personal life, Beresky left the band, and shortly after founding the psychedelic doom band Black Pyramid.  Netto and Abrams formed the heavy psychedelic trio Blue Aside, and Newman eventually founded the space rockers HydroElectric.

Beresky left Black Pyramid in 2011, disillusioned with the shallow state of the underground scenes, and confronting growing feelings that Black Pyramid was not an ideal vehicle for the free and spontaneous expression of either diverse musical ideas or genuine lyrical concepts.   Finding that he was ultimately the direct cause of his own problems and frustrations, Beresky put music aside and began a period of deep self contemplation.  Facing his own demons head on, Newman eventually asked him to come and jam so that the two could have some healthy means of self expression, and just to see what happened.

Free from the constraints of any preconceived ideas of what their music should actually be about, the two enjoyed an unparalleled period of creativity.  Adam Abrams and Matt Netto joined in these jam sessions, and Palace In Thunderland was reborn.  With more practical experience and musical maturity, the band's unique personality quickly began to shine through.   Rather than focusing on developing specific concepts, or conformity to any specific genre whatsoever, ideas simply arose and were developed organically, as a group.  Quickly nearly an entire album's worth of material was written.  The obvious progression was to resume recording and playing live shows.

Palace In Thunderland completed and released the three song EP "Stars, Dreams, Seas" in 2012. They are currently working on a follow-up album, "In The Afterglow Of Unity", which will be released in 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Palace+In+Thunderland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.