Palace Winter are Copenhagen-based Australian Carl Coleman and Dane Caspar Hesselager. The duo’s sophomore album Nowadays is released on May 4, 2018 via Tambourhinoceros. Built around floating keys, rhythm guitar and an insisting beat, Nowadays is a bright and moody album that further develops the group’s unique sound.

Arriving in adulthood is a bitter-sweet experience. Abandoned childhood fascinations make way for tough life lessons. But also the hope and potential that comes with taking charge – of both your life and others’.These are the central themes in Nowadays, the second full-length album from Palace Winter.

Having played in bands separately for years, a mutual respect for each other’s styles encouraged them to start writing together. Carl coming from a song-writing background. Caspar, a producer and classically trained pianist. Both, however, appreciate a strong melody, which is evident throughout the atmospheric dark-pop they create.

Their debut single was released in 2015, followed by the EP Medication and in the summer of 2016, their debut album, “Waiting for the World to Turn” had arrived. All released via Copenhagen-based label Tambourhinoceros.

The support that followed was widespread. Number 1 on Hype Machine and overwhelming reviews from heavy hitters like The Guardian, NME and Line of Best Fit. Radio support came from Guy Garvey, Lauren Laverne and Tom Ravenscroft at BBC 6 Music, KCRW, KEXP, Norway’s P3 and Denmark’s P6.

The band have successfully brought their cinematic psych-pop to the stage. With an increasing number of sold out live shows under their belts, fans have not been left disappointed by their hypnotic and mind-blowing live sets.

Having already supported Noel Gallagher and played Guy Garvey’s Meltdown, Roskilde, Green Man, Sziget in Budapest, Latitude and Secret Garden Party, amongst many others, Palace Winter are well placed to blow the roof off 2018. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Palace+Winter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.