"They say the god of the wind lives / in a house made of straw." - Paleo, from "Hello & Behold" off A View Of The Sky

For the last 5 years, living in a car, booking his own shows, producing all his own music, Paleo has become something of a mantlepiece in the American house show circuit. His tour history is a database for kindred spirits: over 700 shows across the US, about 150 a year since 2005. Daytrotter's Sean Moeller playfully crowned him their "Poet Laureate" in 2007. And while his self-released first record, "Misery, Missouri" (2005) earned him high marks from a number of online sources, Paleo garnered most of his notoriety through his 2006 songwriting mecca, "The Song Diary." In a single year, he wrote and recorded 365 songs consecutively. Paste called it "a streetfight of freakish prolificacy." His other credits include soundtrack work alongside for the feature film In Search Of A Midnight Kiss (2007), winner of the John Cassavetes Award at the 2009 Independent Spirit Awards, and producing These United States' psychotropic debut record, "A Picture of The Three Of Us At The Gate To The Garden Of Eden" (2008), on which he played the majority of the instruments. In the interviews that followed the Diary, the first thing people wanted to know was what next? He told Tape Op in 2009, "I have always wanted to make a great record. "A View Of The Sky," his third attempt, is the first vivid scrawls of a remarkable mind after a remarkable year. It is also Paleo's first collaboration with Partisan Records out of Brooklyn, NY, coat-of-arms to Deertick, JBM, Mountainman, and more.

Paleo has been critically acclaimed for his innovative musical arrangements, his strange vocal style (reminiscent of Devendra Banhart), and his masterful skills as a lyricist. 

2. Primitive, stone-age sludge. Heavier and fuzzier than a mammoth stuck in the tar, more ominous than the tundra...let this relentless prescence descend upon you.... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paleo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.