7 artists hail the name Panama:

1. An Indie Dance band from the North Shore of Sydney, Australia. Fronted by Perth-born songwriter and classically-trained pianist, Jarrah McCleary.  Facebook about quote: "Hopeful house enthusiasts and purveyors of nostalgic electronic sounds"


2. Underground Hip-Hop artist with recent EP titled, "The Weigh In."

3. Panama are a blues rock band from Perth, WA.
They have been described as prehistoric bozo rock and live up to that title by playing songs influenced by none then bands like The Raconteurs and Led Zeppelin.

4. A french hard-rock band influenced by Led Zeppelin and AC/DC. They released three albums between 1998 and 2000.

5. A punk band from Versailles, France active 1980-1984

6. indie rock band from Prague, Czech Republic.

7. Panama is a Paris-based indie rock band. The group originally came together in Philadelphia, out of the still-smoldering ashes of local favorites Caterpillar, Moped, and Meringue. A Philly super-band of sorts, they appeared on NPR discussing their lyrics and opinions on the city of brotherly love, and how it's changed in the past ten years. In an unusual twist of events, the band relocated to Paris, France and began playing regularly in Europe in 2005. Critics often describe the music as an intersection of New Zealand kiwi-pop and Feelies/Unrest inspired indie. Three records have been recorded thus far. The first, self-titled, features a line-up of Gram (Meringue), Mike (Caterpillar), Kara (the Jane Anchor) and Mark Zepp. The second, an EP, was released in Philadelphia just before the band moved overseas. The line-up on the EP is Gram, John (Caterpillar) and Brenda (also of Caterpillar fame). More recently, the band recorded songs for a forthcoming record - due out soon! The band currently features a '3/4 French' lineup of Fred, Antoine, Joel and Gram. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Panama">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.