Pandea; surviving musicians from far flung “East Germany” have formed a group and produced a concept album that will stir the hearts and set the pulses racing of fans of bands like “Queensryche” or “Savatage” or simply any fans of melodic metal. So let’s go back in time to Berlin, end of 2005: Dan Uhden former guitarist and singer for Merlin, Mind Odyssey and Dark Voices is working in his studio on the new material for his current band Metropolys, as the demand once again resounds for new works from the metal musicians of the former DDR. Old colleagues are once again in contact, and as Dan works on his new material he comes nearer and nearer to the realisation that all the new songs hold a blueprint that could be explored so much further, above all by expanding the use of different singers and characters, and this project was born. Not just because of the contacts Dan made when he worked on big Metal events in the legendary East Berlin Langhans Street, did he manage to convince some of the most important singers of DDR metal bands to collaborate with him. The basic premise: to merge the most different styles of Metal into a single independent conglomerate mixed with the joy and playfulness of the many potential musicians who have been contributing to the project since August 2006. In the end more than 16 musicians contributed to the 12 tracks of the Pandea Album “Soylent Green”, and there were many more who couldn’t be fitted in. Amongst those who did contribute were: Norbert Schmidt (Formel 1), Norbert Klemp Bode (Biest), Jacky Lee Man (Pharoa), Mario de Mole ( Merlin, Mind Odyssey) and Buzz Dee (Knorkator). The CD which has been produced proves that non of these professionals has lost an ounce of enthusiasm for or fun in making music, a quality that Pandea will prove not just on CD but also through live events we plan.
Heavy/Progressive Metal Opera about the Sci-Fi classic of 1973 in vein of Ayreon, Dream Theater, Gamma Ray.

„Soylent Green“, the classic end time-movie of 1973, is the scenario in which mastermind Dan Uhden (MIND ODYSSEY, MERLIN) together with Mario Le Mole (MIND ODYSSEY, MERLIN) put the debut of PANDEA. Like in the albums of AYREON many HardRock/Metalheroes of the old GDR-Scene supports the concept-album. Beside of Mario Le Mole, Norbert Schmidt (FORMEL1), Jacky Lee Man (PHARAO) and Norbert „Klempo“ Bode (BIEST) are lending the characters their voice. Instrumental guest performances are done f.i. by the well known guitarist Victor Smolski (MIND ODYSSEY, RAGE).

The Heavy Metal Opera is consisting of 12 acts and celebrates epic and melodic Heavy Metal with changing moods and powerful hymnic refrains. Through skilful varying from euphoric to dark moments a majestic and vivid atmosphere is build up, which don’t stand one second behind of those from other bands like AYREON, SAVATAGE and GAMMA RAY. Beside of the concept it contains some ear-catchers for the willing ears of Melodic
Metal fans.

Through Pure Steel Records the album is now released on 26th February and it’s a powerful statement of the old guard of Eastern Germany. Live-performance is also planned. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pandea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.