There are several artists with the name 'PANIC': A) from Boston, USA; B) from Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil; C) from  Amsterdam , Netherlands;  D) from Seatlle, USA; E) from Nottingham, UK ; F) from Korea; G) from The Netherlands.
 
A) A Boston Hardcore band who formed in 2000 featuring members of bands such as the Trouble, In My Eyes, American Nightmare, and the Explosion.  They released two EPs for Bridge 9 Records.  They had a period of inactivity for a couple of years, until resurfacing in early 2006 to play a few shows on the east coast.  They soon embarked on a European tour promoting their new EP, "Circles," released on Reflection Records in spring of 2006.  Both Bridge 9 EPs are collected on the "Strength in Solitude" discography.

B) A Brazilian Thrash/Death metal band
The band was first called Tormentor, then Massacre and finally - just prior to the recording of "Rotten Church" - changed their name to Panic. yet by the same year the band split, the remaining members tried to keep going but the band changed to a different sound (prog) and name (Laurifer).
They reformed the next year (1988) and released another two albums.

Split up again in 1998. Reformed in 2009 with a new lineup.


C) PANIC, a Dutch punk band from Amsterdam 
This PANIC  was formed in 1977 as a follow up of the short lived band "Big Peter and the Terrible Garage".  
Members were: Peter Penthouse (lead vocals), Mike DeCourt (guitar, vocals), Pete Passion (bass, vocals) and Rheinhart Roffel (drums). 
In 1978 PANIC’s own LP  13  (Universe LS-7) was released on red vinyl.
And was later in 1978 released for a second time (on Ariola 26388 XOT), but now on black vinyl.
Also in februari 1978  PANIC took part in a compilation LP Keihard&Swingend!, live in Paradiso",
a production by "Oor" (a leading Dutch music magazin)  with their song "Dead Or Alive".  All songs were recorded live in PARADISO, Amsterdam and released by  EMI-Bovema (5C 028-25884X) 
Other Dutch bands on "Keihard and Swingend!"  were Sammy America Gasphetti, Subway, WhiZZ Guy, Suzannes, Captain Coke, The Nits, Sylph, Turf, Cilinders and The Lizards.

And in july 1978 PANIC also played in CBGB’s Club as well in CBGB’s Theatre in New York. 
"Special engagement from Amsterdam" as is said in the "The Village VOICE" (july 3, 1978).
The latter performance was live broadcasted from coast to coast on WPIX FM 102 radio, including an interview after the show.

Without the knowledge of PANIC, Wobbe van Zije (owner of the independant label Universe Productions) released somewhat later a fake live LP in Limited Edition, with songs of Nick Lowe, Tim Robbinson, Elvis Costello, Jonathan Richman, Patti Smith, Patrick Bernard and B. Nelson performed by “The Outtakes” and songs of Herman Brood and of The Speedtwins and a song of PANIC. 
That song: “It’s My Pain”, was the only song that realy was recorded during a live performance.

Due to personal differences PANIC stopped in 1979. 
Rheinhard Roffel stopped playing.
Pete Passion went to play with “The Tröckener Kecks” for a short period.
Peter Penthouse and Mike DeCourt tried to go on with other musicians - working on a new songs with dutch texts, but in 1980 Mike DeCourt also left PANIC. 
Peter Penthouse played for a short period with several other musicians in a follow up band “PANIC SPECIAL” and released a double LP “Wat kan het leven toch mooi zijn…” (Oidipus, PLP 12345) in 1981.

In 1996 a compilation CD was released: “I’m Sure We’re Gonna Make It. Dutch PunkRock ‘77-‘82” (Epitaph, LC 2567), on which PANIC was represented by their song “Requiem for Martin Heidegger”.

Mike DeCourt took up playing in 2004 in a studioproject  Duh O.V.E.R.GANG 
In 2008 the CD  Hot Flushes from Duh O.V.E.R.GANG (Duh 20071129) was released.

see also:
- www.myspace.com/panic19761979
- www.myspace.com/panicmissed
- http://www.popinstituut.nl/biografie/panic.2038.html
- http://www.fonos.nl/?domain=fonos2/store&request=detail&type=view&spd=fonos2%2Fstore&spr=browse&spt=view&index_type=names&index_name=p-pm&item=20&catalogue_key=441135
- www.myspace.com/duhovergang



D) A thrash act from Seattle.


E) A Nottingham, UK based pop-punk band who formed in 1994 releasing 3 full-lengths and 4 EPs. They broke up on the 19th July 2004.


F) a korean band :

Lee Jeok
Real name : Lee Dong-joon
Physique : 176cm, 64kg
Blood type : B
Hobbies : Writing short stories, drama, graffiti, drawing cartoons
Talents : Computer programming
Motto : Hit the rock with an egg.
Favorite food : Korean style food

Kim Jin-pyo
Physique : 181cm, 75kg
Nickname : Alien, JP
Blood type : A
Religion : Christianity
Hobby : Driving
Talents : Playing saxophone, basketball, skiing
Favorite food : Anything except for seafood
Favorite color : Light sky blue
Habit : Biting fingernails

Discography:
On the base of rock music, Panic has been called “a power” whose musical world encompasses modern rock, alternative, techno sound and even black music. Lee Jeok was a student at the Department of Social Studies at Seoul National University and Kim Jin-pyo was a senior at Sangmoon High School when the duo was first created. As the name of the duo implies, Panic wanted to sing in their unique color and voice about the society which seemed to be on the verge of a nervous breakdown. While Lee Jeok made some demo tapes and sent them to several record companies, he was acquainted to Choi Sung-won, a former member of the band “Deulgookhwa.” Through that encounter, Panic could release their debut album. With “Not Anyone,” the title song of their debut album, Panic couldn’t gain great popularity, but as the songs “Snail” and “Left-handed” gained good response among computer communication users, Panic began to see themselves in the middle of focus. Unlike most pop songs that sing about beautiful love stories, Panic’s songs were different in that they use words and melodies that penetrate deeply inside the hearts of listeners. In 1996, Panic released their second album that clearly displayed their unique color. The music in the second album was filled with melancholy, blunt expressions and experiments. In particular, the lyrics of the song “Insect” had been an object for controversy due to the blunt expressions that criticize teachers. Since the release of their second album, the two members of the duo began to perform on their own. Lee Jeok started emceeing for a radio show on MBC and Kim Jin-pyo released his first rap album gaining good response. Lee Jeok also joined with Kim Dong-ryul to form a project band called “Carnival.” In 1998, Lee Jeok and Kim Jin-pyo got together again to release Panic’s 3rd album. The duo announced a temporary breakup in October of 1998, and each member continued their careers in the pop music scene as song-writers, singer and rapper. In 2005, Panic got together after 7 years of hiatus and released their 4th album.

Their Discography :
Nobody (Panic 1st album, 1995) : Snail, Left-handed, Nobody
Bottom (Panic 2nd album, 1996) : UFO, About the Three Sons of the Clown, Bug
Exception (1st solo album, 1998) : I Love You and Think About You, Rock Paper Scissors, Anyone Who
Sea Within (Panic 3rd album, 1998) : The Sea in My Old Drawer, Clockwork Dolphin, Picture Puzzle
Panic 04 (Panic 4th album, 2005) : Crack, Typhoon, As the Snow Melts, Spiral Steps, Paper Butterfly, Rosinante


G) A Dutch HNW project. The project's debut cassette 'The Grudge' was released in 2010 through Plague Records; further J-horror themed releases will follow. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Panic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.