There are more than one artist named Panther:
1. Black/Thrash Metal Band from Madison, WI 
2. Indie group
3. Rock band from 70's
4. Fictional group from Macross 7 series
5. Slovak Heavy Metal band from 80's - 90's last century
6. Canadian rapper

1. PANTHER is a nasty metal band formed in 2011 in Madison, WI. 
Releases to date:
Speed Bitch Motor Fuck (demo cassette, 2012)
Ride The Ice (demo cassette, 2013) 
http://panther.bandcamp.com/

2. Panther is Charles Byron Salas Humara and Joe Faustin Kelly (Philip Glass Ensemble, Steve Reich ensemble) and occasionally Sara Welker on violin. With the release of their new record 14 kt God (Kill Rock Stars), they have  blended hardcore, psych, dance and bop to create a new genre in what people have been describing as “caustic pop”. Panther has toured constantly and has built a reputation for often playing hectic and confusing live shows.

3. A largely politico-Kraut underground rock band from Ahrensburg, formed in 1972, Panther were a hybrid of styles in the Ton Steine Scherben, Tobogan or Lokomotive Kreuzberg type vein, with satirical cabaret and rock 'n' roll edges too - but (despite the fact that it says "Volksrock-Bande" on the front cover) there's no folk at all!

4. Thrash metal band from the animated series of Macross 7.

5. Panther is a Heavy Metal band from Slovakia. The band was founded at the turn of the 70th and 80th years the last century. The band recorded several demo recordings of their own songs and performed at the Czech/Slovak Radio and Czech/Slovak Television. 
The band was founded by four very young boys who, with minor changes and bigger breaks will work with good music until he retired :) 
The band is sometimes meet for occasional concerts. Where the band members reminisce about their Hard&Heavy idols and old Great time of Hard Rock & Heavy Metal.

6. Panther is a rapper from Montreal, known for collaborating with dubstep and house producers from the record label Kannibalen Records
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Panther">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.