PANZER DIVISION was formed and began as an experimental noise project in 1998. PzDiv has tinkered with many different genres spanning from minimal techno to loud aggressive powernoise to EBM. PANZER DIVISION was first heard on mp3.com during 1998 - late 2000 before it was taken over by a huge corporate buyout. PANZER DIVISION released it's first online release entitled "WARSAW PACT". Since it was not officially pressed, only pressed by online ordering..there are less than 50 known copies in existance.

During the year 2000, the first real PzDiv album entitled "Projected Kill Ratio" was formally released. PKR embodied Paul's early work culled from DEFRAG103 ( his alternatemusic project during the year 1998 ) and some new tracks under PzDiv. During the year 2001, two more albums were released entitled "Sturmgeschutz" and "Death Chamber". Both of these albums were what PzDiv was trying to achieve musically, diving into the powernoise realm grasping powerful rhythms and disturbing samples from the World War 2 Era. Sturmgeschutz and Death Chamber saw alot of interest in listeners as well as some small labels. A small indie canadian label called Dark Black Musik wanted to release a PzDiv album, and in the year 2002 "From Normandy and Beyond" was pressed and released with PzDiv's first dancefloor hit "Omaha Beach Landing". Omaha Beach Landing was also included on Systemic Audio's first sampler, a local philadelphia distribution based label. O.B.L was getting heavy distribution in the industrial DJ circuit, and was a major hit in Philadelphia clubs. The success of the new album prompted PzDiv to finally start performing live, and in 2002, Joe Scott (215Noise/Systemic Audio) booked PzDiv @ the Dahlak Cave opening for Klangstabil.

During 2003, PzDiv performed numerous times throughout Philadelphia, was asked to perform with NYC's own Terrorfakt and also was flown to Los Angeles to perform at California's prestigious industrial night "Das Bunker" ( L.A ).

In 2004, PzDiv performed as a skeleton soldier @ MERC Meltdown in Pennsylvania, donning his sinister foam latex skull mask.

2005 was a productive year for PzDiv. From Normandy and Beyond was re-released on KomBlok Records, and bought a new interest of fans and listeners as PzDiv recieved distribution on Metropolis Records . PzDiv booked it's first tour in early 2005. PzDiv booked and headlined the 2005 Crush Amerika Tour with Adam X and Cenotype. A tour CD was produced entitled "Crush America Tour 2005" and featured 3 songs from each artist, around 300 were pressed and all were sold during the tour and it is out of print. PzDiv released the next dancefloor hit "I am Sinistar" on myspace.com and many other internet hosting sites...it became an instant internet hit accumulating over 50,000 plays over the internet sites it was hosted on to this date.

In 2006 PzDiv experienced a hard drive failure in which much of the new material was lost and needed to then be recreated, PzDiv re-recorded the new album "I am Sinistar" subject to release in the fall of 2006. Axis Chemicals contacted PzDiv during the summer of 2006 about producing the 2006 AURAL ASSAULT TOUR with PANZER DIVISION and FORCE IS MACHINE. PzDiv incorporated the aid of Casey, for support on stage during the tour.

PzDiv is currently in the middle phases of recording the double disc release "Second Assault" which will compromise PzDiv's entire musical history as well as produce a brand new album. This release is subject to release in 2007. Whether or not this will be the final musical piece released by PzDiv is left to be said.... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Panzer+Division">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.