Papooz is a French indie pop band based in Paris, France, composed of Ulysse Cottin and Armand Penicaut, who write and sing in English. They have released two albums and one EP since 2014. Papooz's breakout single, "Ann Wants to Dance", was released in the summer 2015, and the music video, directed and filmed by Soko in Greece, received millions of views. Their first album Green Juice (2016), recorded at the Cap Ferret and mixed by Ash Workman (Metronomy, François & The Atlas Mountains, Baxter Dury). They have compared their sound to Phoenix. "Rarely has self-reflection sounded so groovy," writes Evan Crandell in his review of a Night Sketches album preview for Earmilk.

The band's second album, Night Sketches, was considered darker and more electric. It was made in collaboration with and produced by Adrien Durand, head of Bon Voyage Organisation (BVO). "Unlike our first album, which contained miscellaneous songs written years ago and without any knowledge of either production or arrangements, we 'mentalized' this new album. We wanted to bridge the gap between the seventies and the eighties, by bringing in even more groove." The album has elements of vintage pop (Steely Dan) and synth-pop. Durand stated that the band's "strength lies in the songwriting".

The album was also contributed to by musicians of the young French music scene, including drummer Wendy Killman, bass player Maxime Daoud (Forever Pavot, Ojard), and saxophonist Julien Cavard (Amadou & Mariam). The album was mixed by Italian Andrea Suriani (Cosmo, Calcutta, Giorgio Poi) and is a mix of classical and modern pop. It includes the first single "You and I", the ballade "About Felix", inspired by the loss of a friend, a saxophone-driven song titled "Let the Morning Come Again", a soft rock tune ("Danger to Myself"), as well as a ska song ("Undecided").

Papooz have a talent for sway pop and irrefutable groove like very few of their compatriots, aside from Phoenix and Tahiti 80 we cannot think of anyone else. Tropical pop here, wild bossa nova there, all of it deeply anchored in the American style of the Seventies, Ulysse and Armand are perfectly matched. Falsely dabbler and completely inspired, the duo fights the ambient gloom with their songs. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Papooz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.