There are multiple artists/bands going by the name Parallax:

1. Parallax is a drum and bass DJ from Sacramento, USA. He is one of the hosts and founders of Crucial X Radio on the internet radio station bassdrive.com.

Crucial X Radio was founded in 2007 as a collaborative project between Sacramento Drum & Bass DJ's, Spacefunk and Parallax. What was started as very small production on a shoutcast server for mainly friends and local junglists, has evolved into a program that now reaches a global audience. 

Moving forward from the days of broadcasting through Shoutcast, in 2008, Crucial X was picked up by notable Drum & Bass station, dnbradio.com. The show gathered much support and was able to reach a far greater audience than ever before. 

In the Winter of 2009, Crucial X made its biggest move to renowned Drum & Bass radio station, BassDrive.com. The show has been broadcasting here since and during spring 2012, aquired third host, Sacramento veteran DJ 59crime.

Since the beginning, Crucial X has continued to represent quality Drum & Bass from across the spectrum. Get locked in every Saturday for a program dedicated to bring you some of the finest this music has to offer.

2. A Melbourne based ambient project exploring issues around technology, the environment, organic and inorganic nature, parallel universes, transcendence, and the Other. 

3. Parallax is Ukrainian female-fronted oriental progressive metal band, formed in 2012. At time it released it's debut EP titled Sputnik.

4. In 2001, South Carolina artist Brian Grainger began dabbling in psychedelic and ambient music, and by 2002 he became interested in writing computer-produced (but still organic) songs. Doing simple recordings with a four-track, guitar, organ and a drum machine, he adopted the Parallax moniker and slowly progressed into a unique and expressive aesthetic for himself. By May of 2004, Brian had completed 6 albums under the Parallax name before retiring it and releasing music as Milieu and Coppice Halifax, as well as under his own name.

5. Parallax is artist Mike Buchanan, who released some deep atmospheric drum and bass tunes for Urban Flavour Records.

6. Hip hop Parallax
Members:Chance York (emcee)
Tyler Jensen (bass, vocals)
Marcus Skallman (drums)
Eric Burton (machine)
Genre: Hip Hop, Other
Hometown:Minneapolis, MN

7. Parallax is French prog-rock artist David Colon, who among other projects has recreated the soundtrack of much-loved 80s sci-fi cartoon Ulysses 31.
www.parallax.fr

8. Parallax is a Hardcore/Metal from Provo Utah. They released one album on Counter Intelligence Records in 2006 titled "Mediums & Messages"

9. Parallax is a Progressive/Thrash Metal band From Colombia. They have released a full album titled Quasar in 2012, and an EP titled Phasing Out in 2016. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Parallax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.