1) Paramnesia is a French atmospheric black metal band founded in 2005.
http://paramnesiaxpa.bandcamp.com

2) Formed in a womb in 1989, Jack's musical journey is one beginning with irony. As a very small child, he enjoyed banging away on a piano, enthralled by the interaction it offered; because of how hard he hit the keys, however, his uncle always remarked to Jack's mother, unbeknownst to him, that he would never be a musician because of how hard he handle the instrument. This turned out to be false. Jack took piano for a short year, but decided to quit because he felt the pace was too slow and he was not relating to the instrument. The next year, he took guitar, and his life changed. He started jamming with his best friend Kyle, and shortly, Destroyed Out of Convenience was formed. While this was happening, Jack also began experimenting at home with low quality recording equipment and a Roland XP-30 keyboard to explore a softer, more ambient side to music. After Destroyed Out of Convenience disbanded, this became his only permanent musical project. Now, years later, Jack has started collecting instruments, learning how to play them, and continues experimenting with music with his ever-growing arsenal of equipment and ideas. 

What is Paramnesia?

par·am·ne·sia
n.

1. A distortion of memory in which fantasy and objective experience are confused; the inability to distinguish between reality and dreams
2. A collection of compositions by Jack Keys; an aural picture of what he is, wants to be, has been, and may become.

What influences Paramnesia?

The wind, autumn, starry nights and electricity; light and dark, and the contrast between them; the gentle lull of calm ocean waters; the heart and assorted internal organs; semi-colons. 

What does Paramnesia sound like?

A bedroom full of blurred dreams, lost emotion, and sleep deprivation; a tattered and torn book scrawled upon with truth and fancy under a dim light and a conduit of a mind.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paramnesia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.