There are multiple artists recording under the name Paradise.
(1)Latin artist whose music covers multiple genres.
(2)A UK-based dance music group.
(3)Brazilian rock band from Bento Gonçalves.
(4)Nedelle Torrisi from Los Angeles.
(5) Two man Indie Hip Hop group
(6) Metal/hard rock group from Montreal, QC

(1)Very rarely do you come across an artist who crosses a multitude of styles with as much class, conviction and bravado as Paradise. 
She writes, produces and sings her own songs. Performing in English, Spanish and five other languages, a true threat to every genre of music that she effortlessly crosses.
 Whether it’s R&B, Hip-Hop, Latin or Dance, she is a savior of sorts breathing life back into a stale and stagnant industry. Armed with talent, a microphone and just the right amount of sexy Latina fire and a desire to conquer the world. Flooding the underground and rising into the mainstream is the plan. An impressive performance list is as follows; check off Vegas, Montreal, England, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Korea and Japan. Then you have the club scene L.A., NYC, Miami, Boston and The UK Mayfair District, already have her booming through their clubs' sound system.
     Hear her sing a ballad with warmth and sincerity while leaving it dripping with sensuality. But don’t be fooled, she’s just as capable to get heads bouncing in the roughest and toughest spots spitting rhymes with the best of them. Ask for a little Dancehall, Reggaeton or Salsa consider it done; it all seems like second nature! Paradise is truly an artist who owns the ”something for everyone” title. She has shared the stage with everyone from Marc Anthony to Fat Joe.
    Hard, soft, beauty and toughness all rolled into one. Now go listen, love, dance, move and live! This is Paradise.

Paradise N. Efecto 
"Yo soy La que tengo mas flow" 
Management & Public Relation: Zaida Morales 
Mobile: 787.466.1884 
Email: zaidahit@gmail.com 
Liason: Lilliam Diaz Mobile: 787.529-4700 
Email: lilliamdiaz007@yahoo.com 
www.cdbaby.com/cd/paradisenefecto 
www.myspace.com/paradisenefecto 
www.facebook.com/paradisenefecto 
www.twitter.com/paradisenefecto

(6) Canadian metal band. Possibly defunct. Members: Frank Kelly, Jet Phil, Xavier Caféine and drummer Michel "Away" Langevin of Voivod. Albums: Rock Anthropologists On The Kon-Tiki Voyage (2002); Hotel (2005) and (possibly) III (2007?). 
More info at http://www.unsigned.com/paradise <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paradise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.