Medan Metal Comunity will have some power to show the world that Medan have a great talent. Pargochy will bring their signature and highly literate Death Metal to the shore. Finally, their Mini- Album released. It's "Shackles of Revenge". They recorded 4 songs in 2012 and now it's done with 4 songs in it. The songs are continuously trained and perfected in the studio like a militant training. These two bands frontman, irink and sayif worked hard to create a musical arrangement pargochy for more sound simple but it seemed solid, which aim to deliver any messages seem more obvious song. Although sometimes these two pargochy frontman clashed with each other in creating and integrating pargochy song arrangement, will keep them managed to create pargochy arrangement in accordance with what they want.
And bored tirelessly for several years finally materialized into a mini- album which was released on January 2, 2014. The mini- album titled Shackles of Revenge is taken from one of the songs from the mini- album. After that, the history speaks. It did not take long for the debut album to get attention from many people in Indonesia, especially in Medan. Ranging from all metal bands, music critics, musicians to social activists. Pargochy previously predicated as an unknown metal band, after their mini- album released, the predicate turns into a metal band to reckon with in the field. With all consideration, Pargochy covered song from one of the old band Trio Ambisi. Letting more the Batak atmosphere, said Iring. "This Lisoi song is very attached for Metal lovers because it tells about the young people who sit together in one place and drink Tuak" Iring deeply understand the condition of the metal friends with this Lisoi rendition. The result, when Pargochy live in show, with spontaneous other friends shouting to sing. If Lisoi interpret "Tuak" so clearly, ‘Shackles of Revenge’ discusses about the revenge that already buried many years. Emotion is poured directly into the lyrics ‘Shackels of Revenge’, is so rude. The song 'Shackles of Revenge' has a typical Pargochy guitar’s riffs. With the very aggressive drums wrapped and the lyrics very clearly talks about revenge. Especially, about our guitarist vengeance in old memories." said Dennis, the vocalist of Pargochy. The next song on the mini album is, "Dignity". Syaif’s favorite song that filled in this Pargochy Bass too, emphatically tells about someone who is not let his Dignity trampling. "I really like this 'Dignity' song because I am the backing vocals." he said. "What is clear here that everyone has fought for the dignity of each person while keeping to avoid treading on people." The last song on this mini- album is ‘Tempest Wrath’. The Tone and tempo is little complicated, just make Dede overwhelmed when brought this song. "First it is hard to track when played. Like a miss in tempo. But due to frequent practice, now so easy" replied Dede who played as a drummer in Pargochy. Overall this Pargochy mini- album brings a new wind in the Medan metal community. And four members Pargochy also said they was satisfied and liked the results. "I like all the record results Thank you very much for Zoel Aprhodite that makes these songs finished. Plus the results paid off with the time wasted when the recording process yesterday." Pargochy know for sure they will be taken into consideration in the metal music . No heroics, they strongly believe that Pargochy be known throughout the world . But success does not make them stay in place even makes them to always move with a bold move to do new things. And one proof through this mini- album, a lot of people including metal musicians and musical groups outside Medan which gives them an appreciation like artistic , and perceive speech that Parogchy Metal band from Medan who have international quality . 

Pargochy +62 83197311616 pin BB: 75C9CCF2 Medan, North Sumatera
Email : pargochy@gmail.com
https://web.facebook.com/Pargochy
https://twitter.com/PARGOCHY
https://www.reverbnation.com/pargochy12
https://soundcloud.com/pargochy <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pargochy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.