There are a number of artists/bands under the name of Pariah.

1. Pseudonym of London, UK based dubstep/future garage producer Arthur Cayzer who has, until the release of his debutalbum in 2018 on Houndstooth, released 3 ep's on the legendary Belgian dance label R&S Records. Each one showed subtle evolution and further established Pariah on the international scene. Like label mate James Blake, he has garnered praise from influential sources such as Pitchfork and Resident Advisor and is considered one of the central producers in a new wave of British dance music being labelled by some as post-dubstep. 
Since then, Arthur has continued to DJ round the world and play live with Blawan as Karenn. Musically, though, he’s been adrift. With countless unfinished projects cluttering his hard drive, he felt he’d pressured himself into making the music people expected, rather than music that was an honest reflection of himself. It was only by taking a step back to analyse the music that has always resonated with him—and where, how, when and in what context it did—that gave him a renewed confidence in his work. The artist’s first release—'Here From Where We Are'—in six years marks a natural progression in his sound. 

2. Pariah was a British  Heavy  / Thrash Metal  band, one of the side ways of Satan (UK) who changed their name into Blind Fury and later to Pariah in 1987.
Pariah released 2 albums (The Kindred - 1988 and Blaze of Obscurity - 1989) before splitting up in the early 90's. 
After the departure of the band, Steve Ramsey (guitar) and Greame English (bass) played in Skyclad. 
Pariah reunited in 1997 and released another album (Unity) a year later.

3. A defunct Austin, Texas-based hard rock/heavy metal band consisting of vocalist David Derrick, guitarists Jared Tuten and Kyle Ellison, bassist Sims Ellison and drummer Shandon Sahm. The band released their debut CD, "To Mock a Killingbird," on Geffen Records in 1993. The band's sound was that of 1980s-influenced hard rock with an alternative lean to it. The band broke up when Sims Ellison committed suicide a couple of years after the band's debut CD was released.

4. British experimental folk-punk band with members Thomas Dowse and John Casey (http://www.myspace.com/pariahcabal) who have since changed their name to The Sans Pareil and added new members.

5. An alternative band from Uelzen, Germany formed in 2006 after the split of the band String Killers. The lineup consists of Arne Meyer, Florian Tepper, Rune Bahlo and Moritz Schreiber. Their official homepage is www.pariahmusic.de.

6. Drum'n'Bass producers publishing on Looking Good Records and Strictly Digital Drum & Bass Recordings etc. Pariah is Phil Jones, Marc Plested, Rob Clinton & Sean Martin. Pariah were spawned from the dark years of the mid 90's. The Pariah studio was set up in 1997, after much saving and hard work. They spent the next 12 months getting to know their equipment, enabling them to carve their own sound. The next thing Pariah did was to expand further and start sending out their music. Later on they found themselves working with 'LTJ Bukem'. Pariah were offered a major deal with 'Good Looking' but after much deliberation, decided to turn it down. The reason for this was that the boys thought that they could not justify the offer of such a deal due to the amount of work involved. The Pariah boys still all work full time which does not really leave a lot of time for them to be Dj'ing all over the world and also working on their music at the same time. They also wanted to be able explore different avenues within such a varied genre of music.

7. Early 80s SoCal hardcore, issued by Posh Boy Records. Pariah appeared on the Rodney On The Roq #3 compilation album on Posh Boy in 1982 and on Not So Quiet on the Western Front on Alternative Tentacles in 1983.

8. Pariah is a Screamo band from Cleveland, OH, features members of Masakari (Halo of Flies). http://www.myspace.com/pariahoh

9. Dundee-based heavy metal band consisting of John Brandon on vocals and guitar, Steve Laing on guitar, Lee Cook on bass and Ryan Shepherd on drums. Currently signed to CrimsonOrange Records with a number of original tracks available on the Internet and a full album coming to retail and digital stores in April 2011. http://www.myspace.com/pariahuk http://www.facebook.com/pariahuk

10. Self-described 'unholy hardcore' - metallic hardcore heavily influenced by bands like Integrity, Cursed and Ringworm - from Seoul, South Korea. Formed in 2011, first demo released in 2012.

11. Wanganui, New Zealand groove/death metal band. Formed early 2007, released Humanageddon EP in 2008 and Mass LP in 2013. https://www.facebook.com/PariahbandNZ

12. Post-hardcore/screamo band from Bartlett/Carol Stream, IL. http://pariahil.bandcamp.com

13. Crustgrind from Seattle, Washington, United States

Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pariah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.