There is more than one artist with this name:
1) Paris, a hip-hop artist from San Francisco
2) Paris, now known as Paris Shadows, a hip-hop artist from Redding, CA.
3) Paris, an alternative rock band from Lowell, Massachusetts - PVRIS
4) Paris, a band from Sweden
5) Paris, the original name of poison
6) Paris, a band from the U.K.
7) Paris, a US 70s rock band
8) Paris, a singer/songwriter from Norway
9) Paris, a sleazerock band from Australia
10) Paris, a band from... Paris with Nicolas Ker (RIP)


1) Paris (real name Oscar Jackson, Jr.; born October 29, 1967 in California) is a hip hop artist from San Francisco known for his militantly confrontational rapping, and especially the controversial track "Bush Killa." After earning a degree in economics from University of California-Davis, Paris founded Scarface Records but released his first single with Tommy Boy Records. "The Devil Made Me Do It" was his critically acclaimed debut 1990 LP; the title track was banned by MTV.

Paris' 1992 follow-up, "Sleeping With the Enemy", was not released due to the anti-George H. W. Bush track "Bush Killa" and the album's insert, featuring the artist waiting behind a tree, holding an assault rifle, as the president is waving to the crowd. Unable to find a distributor, Paris released it on Scarface Records and the album was a critical success though sales were slim (but successful by independent standards, at about 400,000 units). "Guerrilla Funk" (1994, 1994 in music) sold roughly 300,000 units, but his follow-up, "Unleashed" drew cries of selling out with its G funk sound, though the message still was one of unity and struggle against racial discrimination.

In 2003 he resurfaced with a new label, Guerrilla Funk Recordings. His most recent album is "Sonic Jihad" and continues his record of controversial album covers: it depicts a plane flying into the White House, and speaks on many topics, including the War on Terror, the war in Iraq, police brutality, black-on-black violence and conditions in inner-city communities. Included on the album are KAM, Dead Prez , and Public Enemy.

Most recently, Paris completed a project with Public Enemy, "Rebirth of a Nation" , a title taken from the 1915 film, Birth of a Nation, a racist portrayal of African Americans after the Civil War, glorifying the Ku Klux Klan. Although Chuck D is the primary vocal performer, Paris penned the bulk of the album which also features MC Ren, Immortal Technique, and the Conscious Daughters. This album is seen as a project separate from the discography of both Paris and Public Enemy.

3) Paris (born Paris Vasquez on February 17, 1994 in Redding, CA), named after the 1993 Cure album, released his debut album in 2018 and toured with Post Malone and 21 Savage the same year. He has been described as a "grittier Post Malone". Paris has changed his stage name to Paris Shadows.

3) Paris is...
Lynn Gunnulfsen - Guitar/vocals
Alex Babinski - Guitar
Brian MacDonald - Bass
Brad Griffin - Drums

Hailing from Lowell, Massachusetts, the four musicians that form the entity entitled Paris certainly have a fascinating story to share. Upon meeting in 2009 while partaking in a previous musical affair, vocalist and guitarist Lynn Gunnulfsen and drummer Brad Griffin soon met eye to eye on one thing: something didn’t feel quite right. Towards the end of their run together with their previous band, they met guitarist Alex Babinski. “When we met him and he and I were writing together it was just instant chemistry,” says Gunnulfsen. Soon after the band clicked with Babinski, they gracefully entered the studio to create the being in which rock n’ roll fans everywhere would soon begin to know as Paris.

6) Paris In 1975, Bob Welch and Jimmy Robinson (recording engineer) formed the short-lived hard rock power trio Paris with ex Jethro Tull bassist Glenn Cornick and ex drummer Thom Mooney. Paris released two albums; Paris (produced by Jimmy Robinson (recording engineer)), and after Hunt Sales replaced Mooney, Big Towne 2061, produced by Bob Hughes. Sales' brother Tony subsequently replaced Cornick before the group split. The first album to this day is still selling as it been released 4 times; the second album not so well.
In a 1979 interview with People Magazine, Welch said that the two Paris albums were "ill-conceived." Because of the misfire of Paris, his finances had deteriorated until he had only $8,000 left. Mick Fleetwood and members of Fleetwood Mac would soon help him reinvigorate his career as a solo act.

Paris (with Nicolas Ker) 
"Quinze ans … quinze ans qu’elle couve, cette maudite tempête … dans la tête de Nicolas Ker, enfant terrible et torturé qui écume les bas-fonds parisiens en quête de reconnaissance artistique. Le son escarpé et farouche de Paris se gorge de cette anxiété accumulée, une frustration renouvelée encore et toujours, celle de l’artiste convaincu à tort de ses imperfections, courant fiévreux sans fin après l’absolu sans jamais l’atteindre.

Rejoint dans son odyssée par Maxime Delpierre, Arnaud Roulin, et Michael Theis, enrichi des expériences Poni Hoax et Aladdin, ce digne héritier des romantiques noirs concrétise enfin son fracas intérieur. There is a storm est saturé de tension contenue sous la surface lisse des premiers morceaux conçus comme une entrée en matière calme traîtreusement. Le troisième morceau « My baby drove away » accélère la cadence alors que l’amour vient de s’enfuir

Ouf enfin la crise éclate, c’est qu’on se sent bien mieux en état de siège, dans l’urgence de la décomposition ! A partir de là l’album s’emballe comme un cheval au galop se précipitant vers le ravin dans la tourmente des éléments déchaînés. Lautréamont et Chateaubriand n’ont qu’à se bien tenir ! Le palpitant en bandoulière à la limite de la rupture, le quatuor Paris se métamorphose en chasse infernale, une chevauchée fantastique digne des chevaliers de l’Apocalypse.

« Up from a distance » et ses accents brisés d’Opéra de quat’sous, le caractère electro-funèbre de « The Cross-over », « The march of the wooden soldiers » très Rebotini dans ses envolées, … le Lp s’achève en apothéose sur les aveuglants « Serve me Lord » et « Wearing the mask », transes cathartiques propres à saisir les derviches tourneurs du monde entier. Le tout se lit comme une dramatisation complète de l’écriture musicale, une partition incendiaire dark au possible, qui se dévore comme un mets empoisonné, dans la chaleur du tonnerre."
Et plus si affinités
www.facebook.com/parissubways <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.