Being from the far north of Germany, Parity Boot combine thrash metal with industrial and hardcore. Current members are Mathias Riediger (voc, git, synth), Dominik Wegmann (drums), Jörg Hannebohm (bass, voc) und Eike Braselmann (git, voc).
Background:
Back in the 90s Mathias and Dominik have already been laying foundations for PB. Being more crossover at that time, they had produced a demo and a live-album by 2000, which where sold at shows and over the net. 
Since 2000 the music has been getting harder with more industrial influences and they started to concentrate more on playing live.
Another self-produced demo („electronic circuits“) was realeased in 2002. In the meantime, Mathias started studying composition and producing in the Netherlands, while Dominik took up audiology. Adverse conditions notwithstanding, PB still managed to play gigs and work on new songs. Jörg took care of management and press and PB played support gigs for Mob Rules,  Stormwarrior and many more. 
Their self-titled EP, released in 2004, got positive reviews throughout web and print media. And it eventually made them finalists in Wacken Metal Battle in 2005. They, out of 400 bands, won the contest for Lower Saxony and could compete against the finalists of all other provinces in the notorious Wacken Hall of Metal. During this period of success Mathias started working as a producer and sound engineer as well. 
In 2006 after another EP they started working on a new album. This time, they made a point of constant professional production instead of recording in rehearsal rooms. Also, Eike became the band's second guitarist, and being a student at the Hamburg Technical School of Arts he takes care of the band's visuals. Due to a lot of moving and working as a freelance composer/producer, Mathias' work on the album had been delayed until 2008. Eike graduated with animating the first PB video of „Into nothing“ as his final project. 
Right now, with album and video ready, PB are looking for a label.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Parity+Boot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.