There is more than one artist with this name:


1) Parker is some fuckin emo shit in Rockford, IL.  Members of Warren Franklin, Joie De Vivre, and Your City/State.  On Count Your Lucky Stars or something dumb.  Cool as hell. We takin' over. 

2) If Knighthoods were given out for contributions to crowd rocking, Parker would be curtseying in front of the Queen come New Year. As it is, plaudits range from Massive Attack to DJ Yoda. Royalty indeed! 
First starting his rise smashing chumps via DJ battles, Bristol's Parker soon turned his hand to production gaining "lofty comparisons to the marvelous RJD2". The luscious beats and driving Funk of his 'To Eternity' LP garnered rave reviews and wide critical acclaim. Lead single 'Sugar Coated' was MTV-playlisted, while 'Western Soul', featuring San Francisco legend, Rasco, devastated dance floors. Proving he was no flash in the pan, Parker followed the album with a series of club-rocking bangers, finding homes at such heavy hitting labels as Bombstrikes, Goodgroove, and Jalapeno. 
Not one to rest on his laurels Parker began to dabble in bass-heavy frequencies with "deliciously pleasing results". His Dubstep refix of James Brown's 'It's a Man's World' reached number 1 in the Hype Machine Chart, while 'Where's My Monkey?' made him a household name....well, households that flip to the bass and dig King Kong-sized booties. Parker's Crack House remix of Max Sedgley and Glitch Hop collabo with Finley Quay further showed his versatility and confirmed him as a hit with national taste-makers BBC Radio 1, 1Xtra, Kiss, 6Music and XFM. 
A hectic DJ schedule has seen Parker's incredible deck talents rock such festivals as Glastonbury, Shambhala (Canada), Big Chill, and Bestival, as well as various club hot spots across the globe including FabricLive. These burgeoning crowds have been treated to Parker's superior selector skills which fuse a multitude of genres designed to make you shake a tailfeather. 
Always one for "combining a cheeky sense of humour with a keen ear for a record-defining sample", who knows what styles he'll be running, or inventing next, (Funkstep, anyone?). Parker is, and always will be, your friendly neighborhood beatsmith. Now, where's my knighthood?

FOR DJ BOOKINGS CONTACT: 
UK & Worldwide: 
contact: abel@fingerlickin.co.uk

Germany, Austria and Switzerland: 
contact: frank@bureau45.com

3).parker is a performance artist/noise musician from Malibu, CA. His music is similar to that of Jeff Theissen but with the passion of Tennessee Williams.

4) parker is fronted and creatively built around songs co-written by singer/songwriter Tom McNeil and songwriter/singer/producer Thomas Ryder Payne. The new CD "BOMBSHELL" by parker examines the point in our lives where we reach moments of personal crisis and how close we come to destruction in our everyday existence. **parker's song "Love Myself" from their new release, "BOMBSHELL" was recently featured on the Global Television sitcom "The Jane Show". 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Parker">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.