There are 4 artists using this Name:

1. Christian deathcore band from Louisville, KY.
2. A Pop group from Singapore.
3. A Christian bluegrass/British northern isles/a cappella group currently living in Oklahoma (2009).
4. A Christian group из USA,Arizona. 

1. We are Parousia. Parousia is a greek word that simply means "presence." It is most often found, however, in the Bible to describe the glorious return of our king Jesus Christ. Our mission and message as a band is simple but great. We believe that everyone is loved beyond measure in the eyes of the living God. We believe that God the father of all is present in everyone and that we are called to his love and to do his will on earth. We as Christians, as people, have a responsibility to love one another and to work to make a better world for the coming of our Lord Jesus. We understand if Christianity isn't your thing, so if you have questions, we would love to help answer them. We would love to get to know all of you who listen to our music. We are seven fun-loving guys who know what the love of God feels like and we want to help the world in some way, know what it feels like too. We hope to see you at a show, dancing and having a great time. We look forward to talking to you soon.

Love, Parousia [Brandon, Mike, Andrew, Zach, Justin, Chad and Mac]
http://www.myspace.com/parousiamn

2.Comprising Lloyd Chia on vocals, Jeff Lam on guitar and background vocals, Caleb Khor on the turntables and keyboards, plus Sunny Lai on the bass, the now-defunct Parousia released two official albums in its 12-year lifetime of rocking the local Singapore rock scene: its self-titled debut Parousia (2001) and subsequent EP, Exchange (2005).
http://web.archive.org/web/20100417041133/http://www.parousianet.com/flash2.html

3. A group of sisters comprised of Rachel Broaddus (lead and harmony, guitar), Sarah Broaddus (lead and harmony, banjo, whistle), Hannah Broaddus (lead and harmony, fiddle/violin), and Rebecca Broaddus (lead and harmony, bass, piano). With their brother, Stephen Broaddus, as roadie and recording engineer, and their mother, Kelly Broaddus, at the marketing helm, they play at churches and festivals, and willingly humor their friends when begged to sing complex melodies on the spot.

4. Arizona was the birthplace of God Unlimited, probably the best college-based group of the “Jesus Music” era (although this group did the same kind of ministry).  God Unlimited was an Episcopal group; this Arizona gathering was Roman Catholic, connected with the Spiritual Life Institute and Fr. William McNamara.
This is a very pleasant album, but somehow one gets the impression that it’s reaching for some things it just can’t grasp.  It’s tries in spots to be progressive, but ends up being as much MOR as anything else.  It also edges into some very “New Age” types of music and lyrics, but mercifully (with the lyrics at least) doesn’t make that either.  (A lot of that can be explained by Fr. McNamara’s own spirituality, which you can read about here). In the reaching part it resembles A City Set Upon a Hill Cannot be Hid, but that album (which really puts Our Lord’s parousia front and centre) has a stronger orchestration and is more creative than this production.
https://www.vulcanhammer.org/2015/02/27/parousia-sedona/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Parousia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.