Pas Chic Chic was formed in 2005 and the group includes former members of godspeed you black emperor, set fire to flames, fly pan am and cursed.

In 2006, the band released a two-song limited edition vinyl seven inch single after only a handful of shows. Over the following twelve months they generated much interest and were asked to participate in some of the city's biggest festivals including: Osheaga, Les Francofolies, FME and Suoni Per Il Popolo. Their debut full-length album Au Contraire was released in Canada on the 50th anniversary of the BBC founding the Radiophonic Workshop that had been created for the purpose of experimenting with new ways of using electronics to create new forms of music.  The album has caught the attention of fans and critics alike, was praised by the legendary Julian Cope (see his review of Au Contraire here: http://www.headheritage.co.uk/addressdrudion/109/2008/) 

The music is a form of fractured francophone pop that brings to mind rhythms, melodies and approaches associated with shoegaze, psychedelia and tropicalia and it is the individuals that compose Pas Chic Chic that best define the originality, energy and identity of the band.

All of the band members have come very different yet illustrious musical backgrounds that have morphed into the sound that makes Pas Chic Chic.

Singer/guitarist Roger Tellier-Craig was a member of the legendary godspeed! you black emperor, as well as a founding member of Fly Pan Am and Set Fire To Flames. Other projects also include the group Et Sans and his DJ moniker sundown sundown.

Guitarist  Radwan Moumneh played in the celebrated hardcore band Cursed and along with two former members of godspeed / current A Silver Mt. Zion, he runs and engineers at the studio Hotel 2 Tango. Other projects include the one man band Jerusalem In My Heart.

Drummer Eric Fillion, a former history teacher, has played in well-known punk acts Cobra Noir, The Black Hand, and IRE.

Bassist Eric Gingras was also a member of Fly Pan Am, Ghislain Poirer, and continues to play with Cian Ethrie and pursues a solo project as well.

Marie–Douce sings and plays Farfisa, Maxi-Korg, Mellotron and along with Roger, started the ‘noa identificado’ DJ nights at Montreal’s own Casa Del Popolo.

Their 2010 single known as "12"" received positive commentary from Julian Cope.  The releases by Pas Chic Chic were from 2008 to 2010, and they have been inactive since. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pas+Chic+Chic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.