The band was created in Sofia, in the summer of 1992 by Stefan (drums, ex-Taran) and Deny (guitar). They started playing and soon Ivan (bass) joined them. He also took the vocals. In the beginning of 1993 they record a 4 song demo, which were influenced by the first official Napalm Death release. In the mean time a band called Atentator begin playing in their rehearsal room and eventually they became friends. After Atentator's break-up the vocalist (Hristo) and one of the guitarists (Krassy) joined Past Redemption and they began working hard on the debut album "Decomposed". The album was recorded in two weeks in the Sofia studio "City" and the style was described as grind/death metal. The band began to gain speed and concerts followed. The album publishers were Riva Sound and they released the product in late 1993. The album was number one in sales, according to the national music charts. At their presentation as the top selling band at the TV show "Hit minus one" the band recorded a song, which the organizers refused to broadcast due to the extremity of sound and style. The band started working on their second album while playing at gigs all over Bulgaria with various bands, such as Nihilist, Nice Side of Pathology and many others, which were quite successful. In the summer of 1994 they enter studio "Graffitti" to record their second album "Useless Amputations", produced by Bobby Bonchev. The crew however has been changed - the vocalist Itzo entered the military and has been replaced by Georgy, who recorded 9 new songs and 2 remixes of the song "Passion". In August 1994 the album was released and the band went on yet another tour around Bulgaria. After a minor incident however Krassy injured his arm and this put an end to his guitar playing for a long time. 10 years later Stefan decided it was time to reunite the band, met with Krassy and they started playing again. But finding new musicians was not easy and after some unsuccessful trials Mitko (bass) and Dani (vocals) joined the band. After playing some gigs they decided a second guitarist was needed, and luckily Ivan (guitar) joined. In the spring of 2005 the band entered Tonto's (Ahat) studio and in 3 months they recorded and mixed their third album "Forever Burning Scorn". The distribution of the release was talked by Counter Attack Productions and on 21.12.2005 it was at all the music stores in Bulgaria. The album “Forever Burning Scorn” can be fount in various shops and distributors in Europe U.S.A., South America, Russia and Japan. In the mean time the band is working on new material, which they intent to record in the autumn of 2006 and the style is meant to be more and more brutal death/grind metal.

Discography:
"Decomposed" - EP - 1993
"Useless Amputation" - EP - 1994
"Forever Burning Scorn" CD - 2005  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PAST+REDEMPTION">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.