Pathology Stench is death metal band from Slovakia, Banská Bystrica. 
They have released four full-lenght albums Gluttony (1997), Accion Mutante (2000), Nezpyred (2003) and Meatall (2008)

http://www.pathologystench.sk/

History:

1992
It all began in summer of 1992, after Marek „Kučo“ (bass) left the band SATYR and together with Baro (voc.) has formed a nameless band. Till autumn they made a pact with three another beer-companions Vlado, Edo (guitars) and Erik (drums) and started to compose first songs.

1993
After a very busy winter, the band got first offers to play shows, therefore it has to have some kind of name. A very hard day and night passed and the nameless band has become PATHOLOGY STENCH. The first show was very successful. It took place in band’s hometown and after that the offers for gigs were more frequent. Now, the main goal is to record a demo. In autumn 1993, just before the recording, guitarist Vlado is leaving the band. Edo’s brother Lubo (member of a group called PARANOYA) is asked to help in the studio. In November 1993 the band is releasing the self-produced demo tape called “Practical Brutality”, which contains 10 songs covering 31 minutes. It comes together with the color booklet and revolutionary sound.

1994
The year 1994 was very hectic. The band established contacts with few labels from the home scene (OBSCENE Prod, IMMORTAL SOULS Prod) that helped with the promotion and distribution of “Practical Brutality” tape. The band started to play shows across the Slovakia and Czech Republic, which was a great help to get into the minds of many fans across the Europe.

1995
During this period the band accepts offers to participate on many compilation CD’s from the whole world. Until that day, they sold more than 1.000 copies of “Practical Brutality”. The search for a bigger record label has begun. After recording a song “No Interest” for a “BEST DEATH METAL SK” compilation CD, an offer from a German label GULLI REC. came. The band sent their material, but the label never answered back.

1996
This year is very important for the band. After few problems and both sides agreement drummer Erik is replaced with only 16 years old Vlado from underground band UNCONCERN. Guitarist Lubo also became a full-time member of PATHOLOGY STENCH, because his former band split-up. The group sings a deal with IMMORTAL SOUL Productions and goes on tour through Czech Republic. Just few weeks before recording the new CD, guitarist Edo decided to quit and to get married and live in Czech Republic. All the studio works are postponed.

1997
The band’s line-up gets stable. Baro-vocals, Marek-bass, Lubo-guitars and Vlado-drums. With this line-up the band recorded its debut CD “Gluttony”. CD is finished in April and the band goes on tour with VADER. Official release date of “Gluttony” is in the summer 1997 and the band finally gets its fixed position on the world scene.

1998
The year 1998 is full of playing and touring. The band promotes its CD and working on a new material.

1999
The band finishes co-operation with IMMORTAL SOULS, reduces touring and concentrates on the new songs. During this year the band sings a new deal with SHINDY Productions.

2000
After finishing touches on a new material, the band records the “Accion Mutante” CD in May. Mixing and mastering is taking a little bit more time, because of the band’s will to have a perfect sound quality. That’s why the CD is released only in September and after three months of promotion there is a great response from countries all over the world. Position on the world scene is getting stronger.

2001-2002
The band is doing a lot of shows through all Europe and gains more fans and respect on the scene.

2003
After tour PS are recording their third CD called NEZPYRED. Recording works were done without bass player Kuco, who has left the band. He was replaced by Roman Calpas after finishing the recording. "Christening" of the album was during the show together with NAPALM DEATH on 4th of December 2003. The godfathers of the CD were Robo Oravec and Mitch Harris.

2004-2005
Pathology Stench continues to play gigs in Slovakia and near countries.

2006
The band keeps playing live and working on the new material in the same time. The line-up is expanding as Slimák (ex-M.S.R.) joins the band in the second half of the year at the post of the second vocalist. This move boosts the experimentation especially the vocal part.

2007
The new album will be called "MEATALL" and should be released in autumn this year.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pathology+Stench">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.