There are several bands throughout the world called Pathogen:

1) Pathogen is a death metal band from the Philippines, formed in 2001. They released three demo tapes, before recording their first full length album, "Blasphemous Communion", in 2007. Pathogen play an old school, early 90s style of death metal with clear influences from Pungent Stench, Death and Autopsy amongst others. 

2) Pathogen are a five-piece death metal band hailing from Perth, Western Australia, who ceased recording in June 2008 but reformed in November 2009.

From the Official Pathogen Website:

Intricate and epic melodies combined with powerful groove sections and laden with rich acoustic passages, Pathogen has developed a unique style previously explored by few.

Founded in 1995, Pathogen is a band that has become well renowned for providing an awesome live experience for their audiences. For the last seven years, Pathogen have been gigging consistently, playing some 80 shows, supporting international acts such as Opeth (Sweden) Fear Factory (USA), Mayhem (Norway) Entombed (Sweden), Shadows Fall (USA), Impaled Nazarene (Finland) and As I Lay Dying (USA).

Pathogen released their first recording, a demo entitled 'Tyranny of Hatred', in 1996. A second demo, entitled 'Nightfall', was released in1998. This demo received favourable reviews in many well known international publications, such as Nordic Vision, Terrorizer and S.O.D., which helped them establish a strong underground following.

In 2000, Pathogen recorded the 8-minute epic, 'Shallow'. This single was well received by the fans and enjoyed regular airplay on many local and national radio stations, including Triple J and 2RRR Sydney. 'Shallow' also featured on the 'Metal From the Bottom of the Earth' Perth metal compilation and 2RRR's 'Underearthed' Australian Metal Compilation.

Pathogen has just finished recording their first ful-length album 'Bloodline'. This release contains 13 songs, showcasing Pathogen's finest material and musical progression over the last seven years.

'Bloodline' will be instores nationally around may/june 2005, available through MGM Distribution.

3) Pathogen is a UK Hardcore producer 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pathogen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.