Born in Germany and currently living in Amsterdam, Patrice Bäumel is a dj/producer who has been an active member of the electronic dance music scene for many years. He is an artist who devotes all of his energy to the dancefloor, with his dynamic sets as well as his trademark climaxing productions. His music is full of emotion, dynamic and contrasts of cold, warm, soft and hard: “If you can feel it, it’s good music!”

Patrice loves to break musical rules, easily crossing genres, melting opposing elements into something fresh and homogenous. To call him eclectic would not do his style any justice, because everything feels as one whole, not like a patchwork of different genres. He calls his sound “Mutant Pop”, a mutated pulp of modern popular dance music. That is where his widely succesful debut single, released 2005 on Trapez Records, got its title from. 

Raised on a mixture of 80’s synth pop like Yello, Depeche Mode or Cabaret Voltaire and all kinds of other weird stuff ranging from Frank Zappa to John Coltrane (his dad being a music journalist helped in the matter), Patrice got into electronic dance music in the early 90’s. Illegal warehouse parties were held all over Germany, and your normal discotheque had to make way for a completely different order of untamed energy. Djing was the logical step and soon he had a residency secured at the BASE, one of East Germany’s hottest clubs at the time. Playing alongside guys like Richie Hawtin, Laurent Garnier or Claude Young he quickly learned the ropes of quality djing – mixing, track selection, crowd control.

Today, Patrice has hundreds of gigs under his sleeve, having performed worldwide – from the famous Panorama Bar in Berlin to the amazing Lov.e club in Sao Paulo. Currently he is holds a monthly residency in Amsterdams premier Club, “11”, running his sucessful “360” nights together with musical partner Nuno dos Santos.

The production thing really started taking flight after Patrice was chosen Dutch winner of the Red Bull Music Academy 2002. Being flown out to Brazil for two weeks and getting into the studio with legendary artists like Adrian Sherwood or Gilberto Gil was a unforgettable learning experience that made him want to explore his production talent more. Now, in 2007, his latest Trapez single “Just Electricity” is receiving massive reactions from all around the globe. New school electronic dance music has a new household name. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Patrice+B%C3%A4umel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.