There is 5 artists/bands named with name Patria:

1).Patria is a Black Metal Band from Brazil (Carlos Barbosa, Rio Grande Do Sul)  formed in 2008. 

Current line-up
- Triumphsword - vocals (Land of Fog, Thorns of Evil, Warmachine (Bra), Thrymheim, Lone Wolves Winter)
- Mantus - drums, guitars, bass (Mysteriis (Bra), Black Winter Night, Ancientblood/Vinterthron, Darkest Hate/Darkest Hate Warfront, Demonolatry, Thrymheim, Necromancer (Bra), Lux Ferre, Konsfearacy, Aurora Austraelis, Absinthe Bloody, Valeforshaitan, Nocturnal Worshipper)

Former/past member(s)
- Kehrwald - guitars (Vento Negro, Ares Wrath, Aurora Austraelis)
- Käffer - bass (Darkest Hate Warfront, Mysteriis (Bra), Impacto Profano, Songe d'Enfer, Anschluss, Genetic Deformation, Necromancer (Bra), Enterro)
 
Discography
Hills of Mist (Demo, 2008)
Hymns of Victory and Death (Full-length, 2009)
Sovereign Misanthropy (Full-length, 2010)
Gloria Nox Aeterna (EP, 2010)
Death's Empire Conqueror (Single, 2011)
Liturgia Haeresis (Full-length, 2011)

2).Patria is Singer R&B
There is a new star on the rise, poised and ready to take her place in the spotlight. Allow us to introduce you to PATRIA - talented, gorgeous, and endlessly optimistic. PATRIA simply has all the tools to be a star. There is her strong and soulful voice that can move from a low, sexy growl to a soaring falsetto with graceful ease. There is her songwriting prowess which enables her to pen intimate, moving ballads and dance-floor-friendly grooves with equal expertise. Then there is her exquisite and intoxicating beauty, which makes photography and video both potent ingredients in her formula. Last, but definitely not least, is her attitude. PATRIA is totally passionate about and committed to her music. Pressed to define her style, she offers "pop with an R&B groove and feel and a trace of HipHop. Call it POP-HOP". 

3.) Patria is a croatian tamburitza band from Zupanja.

Patria, a tamburitza orchestra that arose in Zupanja, July 1993, in times of the strongest town shelling and a siege that had lasted for 1263 days. Up then, in almost impossible and inhuman conditions, the players, only 16-yearolds, had found through their music and love towards tamburitza their way of resistance towards the misfortune and hardship that was threatening their country. In spite of everything, still proud, they named themselves "Patria".

The music created and performed by "Patria" cannot be easily placed into one category. In the first place, it is either the Croatian folk music possessing the wealth of the Slavonian plain, or it is their own authorship music, again imbued with rich music tradition, as well as with cultural and regional differences. When performing, as much as "Patria" also gladly plays the works of the old classical masters like Mozart, Bach, Brahms, Verdi, they also play the music of the neighbouring Pannonian nations, like the Hungarian czardas, the Rumanian horas or Gypsy ballads and dances.

Thanks to their previous work and numerous performances throughout Croatia and other parts of the world, the orchestra has earned its place at the top of tamburitza orchestrating list in Croatia. They have released 10 albums, and have achieved great success at all the festivals they played at. From the very first beginning, with minor changes, members of "Patria" are: Darko Kujundžić, Mato and Petar Juzbašić, Damir Bačić, Marko Mandić and Tihomir Damjanović.  

4) Patria is an Oi! band from Czech Republic.

5) Patria is an Oi! band from Spain.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Patria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.