Paul Thomas: a biography

The last five years has seen the UK house music scene storm the world like never before, with a vanguard of talented new DJs and producers who have welded the traditional sound with techno, progressive, trance and electro influences in explosive fashion. Their time is now, and Paul Thomas is amongst this new wave’s brightest stars.

Paul’s big break was landing a residency at Birmingham’s Godkitchen and their globally-syndicated GlobalGathering festivals half a decade back; a dream foundation for any aspiring DJ to build their career on. From here on his destiny as a DJ was inevitable, with global tours and critically-acclaimed compilations for the brand and for Toolroom Records’ burgenoning Leaders Of The New School imprint all soon in the bag. 

While many successful jocks may have been content to rest on their laurels and perhaps release the occasional track, Thomas has been both prolific and hugely consistent over the past few years, establishing himself as a serious production force who blends those aforementioned styles to epic effect. His focus is squarely on the big room and on bringing his different influences together within one track, perfectly representing the different genres that are at the core of the brand that helped to bring him to prominence. 

“I put a lot of the success down to the productions. It took me quite a while to find my sound, and I would say I've only done so in the past year or so. Since then, with the success of tracks like 'Tomorrow' & 'Ultraviolet', more and more doors have opened. Now I'm remixing the likes of Gareth Emery, Sander van Doorn and Paul Oakenfold - artists I would never have been involved with if it wasn't for the tracks I've been making.”

This is made all the more clear when you take a look at the impressive and varied list of labels he’s had track signed to: Steve Angello’s SIZE Records, Positiva, Data, Toolroom Records, Doorn Records, Sander Kleinenberg’s Little Mountain Recordings, Ultra, Baroque Records, Gareth Emery’s Garuda, Hotfingers, Spinnin’ Records, 303lovers...the list goes on and on. His golden remix touch has been requested for releases by legends like Basement Jaxx, Chicane, Underworld, Josh Wink, D Ramirez & Mark Knight, Sebastien Leger & Deadmau5, and he’s collaborated with Knight, Funkagenda, Jerome Isma-Ae and Manuel De La Mare amongst others. 

He’s firmly established himself as a leading name in the wider sphere of house music across the globe thanks to all this, and the small matter of 9 separate Beatport genre Top 10 successes. His Ultraviolet track in Toolroom hit the No.1 spot in the Progressive Chart (as did other singles Tomorrow and Sunrise), and No. 5 on the overall sales chart, while remixes and collaborations with Sander Van Doorn, Funkagenda, Gareth Emery, Weekend Heroes & Ticon, Serge Devant, Jerome Isma-Ae, Kim Fai and Manuel De La Mare are all upcoming. 

“I guess I have gone back to my melodic roots over the past 12 months, making tracks with melodies and big chords, while keeping the beats and bass quite techy and rolling. It seems to have worked well, as I have a lot of cross-genre support, from Van Dyk, Sander van Doorn and Gareth Emery, to Mark Knight, Funkagenda and Steve Angello. But generally I'm just making tracks that I love and that fit into my sets.” 

With continual touring across the world with GlobalGathering and a relentless studio diary to attend to, his name continues to rise up the ranks of the international dance music scene. His wide-appealing sound and die-hard work ethic will ensure that his name is one you’ll be hearing even more of over the next few years.
Description
International DJ & Producer from the UK with releases on Toolroom, SIZE, Spinnin, Doorn, Funk Farm and many more.
Artists we also like
Funkagenda, Mark Knight, Kim Fai, Sonny Wharton <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paul+Thomas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.