Paul C. Buff , Inventor, engineer, artist, composer, arranger and multi-instrumentalist, Buff was a key player in an early turning point not only in Frank Zappa's career, but surf music in general, and the nature of the recording industry itself.

Paul Conrad Buff grew up in Cucamonga. Joining the Marine Corps, after graduating, he trained in aviation electronics. He returned to civilian life and took a job making parts for guided missiles at General Dynamics. After a few months at the "Bomb factory", as Frank Zappa would refer to it, he was bored with his job so he borrowed $1000 and, knowing nothing about the music business, set up the Pal recording studio in Cucamonga. Recording studios were usually controlled by the big record companies at that time so he could offer a cheaper alternative for would-be bands to record. His lack of knowledge and finance meant that the studio produced a different sound from the major studios which became known as the "Pal Sound". He worked with groups such as the Surfaris ("Wipe Out"), The Chantays ("Pipeline"), and many others.

In 1960, Ronnie Williams introduced Frank Zappa to Buff. Paul, Frank, Ronnie, Ray Collins and Dave Aerni recorded a bunch of 7" singles at Pal recording studio between late '60 and 1963. Buff claims to be the "Godfather of Snorks" and other such early Zappa noises..., although, according to Ray Collins, this title should go to Dick Barber.

In 1963, Buff got the opportunity to work with Art Laboe at Original Sound in Hollywood where he engineered the Run Home Slow soundtrack recording. By mid 1964 FZ had moved into the Pal Studio and in August FZ purchased the studio from Buff for $1000, his Fender Jazzmaster guitar and a set of drums. FZ recalled (in TRFZB): "In other words, I agreed to take over his lease and the rest of his debt." Frank Zappa renamed the studio as Studio Z.

Buff continued to work at Original Sound recording groups such as The Strawberry Alarm Clock and Sugarloaf. He set up Allison Research Inc. to produce and market the studio equipment he had designed. Allison Research flourished and Buff moved to Nashville. Here he became interested in developing photographic lighting equipment and set up the White Lightning company. Over the years this has become a leading supplier of professional photo lighting equipment.

 
Paul Buff can be heard on fuzz bass on The Lost Episodes, and had a hand in recording the first two tracks of the Mystery Disc. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paul+Buff">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.