The name "Paulzeder" is just an imaginary name and it has been inspired by a character from a thriller-esotheric movie shot in the early ‘80’s. 
If you are asking yourself "Why this name?" We simply reply "We like it, there are no more explanations."

Paulzeder’s project comes to life at the very beginning of the year 2005 when Jkross, AleXXX and Sabba decided to keep on creating music, after the previous project they already joined together playing in the doom-ambient band named Agatha-Nera.
the common will was the achievement of a new attitude on creating music not characterised by any kind of “common” style.
very soon “impact” and “power” became the right sum of their aim. 

After few months spended on giving life to the first songs, the band recorded the EP “Kumpartextrme” ( not available anymore ) thanks also to Paolo G. who took care of the bass line during the whole 2005. 

Both the research of a personal style and the hard work in studio led the band towards heavier inspirations enriched by a sound and rythms very close to the industrial metal .
the lyrics are in english, the music is straight and strong. Moreover the use of “electronic rumors” enhances the entire work especially during the final arranging of the songs.

At the end of the year 2005 and during the whole 2006, the band improved the live performances with Sirio as bass player ( until the early 2008 )
In January 2007 the band recorded and released the second ep “Death is Real” ( not available anymore.. just for now...) which have made come out a very positive feedback thanks to the reviewers and to the audience.

The year 2008 has been the most important for the band ( up to now..) because there have been taken very important decisions about both the artistic conception and the management of the whole project..
after some proposals from several labels not approved by the band, Jkross, AleXXX and Sabba turned the original idea of their project into a different conception. 
the only way to follow, thanks to the lack of real offers, became the self production.

Then the band starts to record the first full lenght “Sister Death”, a concept album about the meaning of death considered by different points of view, ideological, religious and ( not ) material. 

During september 2008 the line up of the band raise up to its definitive balance with the entrance of "S.V.E.R.S.O" ( bass player ) and "C.I.T.T.E" ( twin guitar player ).

Thus the live performances of the band can finally propose to the audience the same emotions you can feel listening to the cd: a strong impact and an undisputed skill.
 

 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paulzeder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.