There are two Bands named Paura:

(1) Hardcore. The extreme. The limit. The wall after which does not have expression that denotes higher intensity. The end point. Paura: the fear taken to the last consequences. The terror that we have of ourselves. Our end point.

Our end point starts in 1995. Hardcore reviews some concepts of the old school. It loses the shame to admit that the adolescent acnes of metal'80 had left marks in the skin. Meanwhile, it has been struggled with an existencial dilemma. A scene takes to the courts of Moral Justice the behavior of all. We appear as an attempt of balance. A positive an unusual one. Music scratches the cement soil with the nails. The awaken attitude doubts: after all, have these guys the entrance pass? Policy HC takes the risk to die with a point of interrogation in the forehead.

The four original members played in institutions of the HC of that time: No-Violence, Kangaroos in Tilt and Garage Fuzz. They had been joined in the new project to spill what the profile of their origin bands did not allow. In the end of 1996, they released the first CD (Family Trust Records / 2nd press: Conspiracy Chain Records) with only seven songs. The seven first ones. As almost all the members kept in their other bands, they played just a few gigs. To attend a presentation of Paura becomes something expected by the ones who likes hardcore. Next they felt the necessity of one second guitar and this started to be the definitive drawing. To play in Paura is a mission for five people.

In 1998, they release Reflex of Difference (Conspiracy Chain Records). The second CD brings six unreleased songs and three live recordings from the Goiânia Noise Festival (1997).

In 2002, The Myth is Dead (One Voice Records) announces activity. Three new songs and two covered versions. Paving the survival.

In 2005, Paura releases YOUKILLUSWEOVERCOME (One Voice Records), a 12 songs CD that broke a gap of 3 years without recording. The band got back on the road in January to spread the virus of this brand new album . This tour became the longest in Paura lifetime, included the first time out the brazillian ground, playing Chile and Argentina.

In nine years, a pencil written script goes on, with the right to everything what a registered history on this form has of good and bad. They are firm however modest traces. Subject simplicity to the rubber. Broken tips. Grey on white. Chips wooden that make bleed. Further on the end point.

(2) A quintet playing freely improvised music.

Line-up:
Alipio C. Neto-soprano & tenor saxophones
Dennis González-trumpet
Ernesto Rodrigues-viola
Guilherme Rodrigues-cello, radio
Mark Sanders-drums

Their album "The Construction Of Fear" was released in 2008 on the "Creative Sources"-Label
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Paura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.