Several artists/groups:

1) Merrill Nisker (born 1966 in Toronto), better known as Peaches, is an electroclash artist whose songs are mainly focused on sexuality

2) A swedish kids band formed by Tåve and Isabelle in 2000. Their music is sing-a-long disco/pop tunes. The band is now on hiatus.

3) An all-female group from New Zealand, active in the late 1990s, containing several members from the group When The Cat's Been Spayed.

4) Peaches Lavon known from Peaches & Bobo

5) Instrumentalist Nick Brojous of Wilmington, Delaware.

6) Female rapper from Memphis, Tennessee. 

Merrill Nisker (born 1966 in Toronto), better known as Peaches, is an electroclash artist whose songs are mainly focused on sexuality. She lives and works in Berlin, Germany. She plays almost all the instruments for her songs, programs her own electronic beats, and produces her records.

Peaches' music is preoccupied with gender identity. Her lyrics and live shows self-consciously blur the distinction between male and female: she appears on the cover of her second album Fatherfucker with a full beard; when asked if she had chosen the title for shock value, she commented:

"Why do we call our mothers motherfuckers? Why do we stub our toe and say "Aww motherfucker!"? What is motherfucker? ...We use it in our everyday language and it's such an insanely intense word. I'm not one to shy away from these obscene terms that we actually have in our mainstream. Motherfucker is a very mainstream word. But if we're going to use motherfucker, why don't we use fatherfucker? I'm just trying to be even."

She refutes accusations of 'penis envy', preferring the term 'hermaphrodite envy', since "there is so much male and female in us all". Nevertheless, she does not shy away from identifying herself as a sexual being, although she rejects the sanitised portrayal of women in popular music.

Although she does not hold a teaching degree, she taught at private schools before her career in music.

Fancypants Hoodlum released in 1995 was released under her birth name Merrill Nisker

Members of her band are known as The Herms - JD Samson, Radio Sloan, Samantha Maloney.

Her songs have been featured in movies such as Mean Girls, My Little Eye, Lost in Translation, Waiting, and Jackass: Number Two. Her music has also been featured on Showtime's The L Word television series. Peaches performed guest vocals on P!nk's album Try This, on the song "Oh My God". Her lyrics are discussed as part of the Queer Studies course curriculum at the University Of Toronto, and she has been invited to lecture at the Contemporary Music Academy in Berlin. Her most notorious song, "Fuck The Pain Away", is also the name of an Electro night in Brighton.







 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Peaches">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.