There are multiple artists named Peach:

1. Peach (also known as Peach PRC) is Shaylee Curnow, a singer-songwriter from Australia. Peach released her debut single 'Blondes' in 2019, a song that went viral on TikTok. In 2020, Peach released her second single 'Colourblind'. 

2. Peach is a rock band from St. Louis, MO. 
Peach began Far From The Tree as three touring musicians stranded on Interstate 37, surrounded by the sounds of speeding cars and acoustic guitar. They passed the hours documenting their desolation on digital tape, writing and debuting the song “T-Minus” for an audience of no one. And as the night crept in, the assurances of smiles and applause faded into memory. The group, left entirely to their own devices, made a decision. Starting then, they would forget the music they had come to know, and instead, they would set out to create an album with the same tension they found on the road that day. http://peachlikethefruit.com/ 

3. Peach (also known as Peach gb) were an alternative metal band from the UK.
The band originally recorded between 1991 and 1994. They played alternative metal with influences from stoner rock, psychedelic rock, and progressive rock. The original line-up consisted of Simon Oakes, Rob Havis, Ben Durling and Justin Chancellor. Peach supported the band Tool on the European leg of their tours throughout 1993-1994 after the release of 'Undertow', and then released an album, 'Giving Birth to a Stone', themselves. After touring to promote their debut album, Peach recorded a second one, 'Volume II'. It was never released due to a failure to secure a major record deal. In 1995 Oakes quit to form Geyser, but Peach attempted to continue with replacement singer Rod Sterling. However, they suffered more misfortune when Rob Havis left for fellow Tool support act Submarine (later to become JetBoy DC). The name Peach was then dropped in favour of Sterling. Despite also losing Justin Chancellor to Tool in 1996, Sterling signed a deal with Mantra Records and released an album ('Monster Lingo') and four singles.

4.peach is an electro twin-MC band from Osaka, Japan. 
peach are Tomo (Vo), Assan (Vo,Voc,Theremin), Nomi(Guitar), Ippei(Bass), and Tachee(PA).
They have played with Boom Boom Satellites ,Nirgilis and other many various artists in Japan. They have released one album, two singles, and one split album with HONDALADY since 2000.

5. Peach is an Italian dance project releasing only one single, 'Anywhere', in 2000. 

6. Peach is an MC from Sydney, Australia. They released 'Beef & Tripe Mixtape' in 2009. 

7. Peach is an alternative band from Seattle, Washington, USA. They released two albums in the early to mid-90's.

8. Peach (born Patricia Elaine Reasoner; June 1, 1951) is an American blues and jazz artist- a singer, songwriter, guitarist, and producer. 

9. Peach is a Bristol-based rock band. Peach are Ellie - Vox, JP - Guitar, Tim - Baritone, Andy - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Peach">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.