1)  PEARL is a punk band from Baltimore, Maryland. 
https://pearl-music.bandcamp.com/album/thread
  
2) Matt James Lent p/k/a Pearl is a drag artist, dj and dance music producer. His debut album Pleasure was released in 2015 on Sidecar Records. He was the runner-up on Season 7 of the television show RuPaul's Drag Race, created by World of Wonder and LOGO TV. 

Born in Florida, he began drag in Chicago and currently lives in New York. 

His single "Love Slave" was released on June 1st, 2015 and features Italian-singer Jaylee Maruk. Its accompanying video was directed by Michael Serrato.

3) Pearl (aka Pear Miatti) is a French R&b/dancehall/pop singer native to French Guyana.
She's best known for her smash hit J'ai des choses à te dire and her collaboration with the carribean dancehall artist Admiral T 

4) Pearl is a eurodance act fronted by Janet Henry. It was produced by Ullrich Brenner, and Amir Saraf. They released the singles "Summer Holiday" (1995) and "Kissing Like A Virgin" (1996).

5) Pearl is an American rock singer based in Los Angeles, California. She is also the daughter of the famous American performer, Meat Loaf Pearl has recently finished recording her debut album which features many famous musicians, including Scott Ian of Anthrax.

6) Pearl is a duo based in Wellington, New Zealand.  Their debut album No Ordinary Day was released in 2006, and they have supported artists such as Eric Clapton and Elton John in their New Zealand concerts.  Their music has been described as evocative pop.

7) Pearl is Belgian dance group produced by Peter Luts. Members : Charlotte (vocals),Marijke and Kim (dancers). Their debut single was released in September 2010,and it's called ‘‘Speechless’’. 

8) Pearl is the duo of sisters Debbie (vocals) and Leslie Pearl (keyboards and vocals). They recorded one album for London Records in 1977. Leslie subsequently found some success as a songwriter and solo artist

9) Pearl is JMSN's alternate alias; an outlet through which new concepts are explored, both sonic and emotional. Pearl is an ongoing project with the goal of creating music free of restraint, inhibition, or stricture of any kind. Pearl is free-roaming. In August of 2016, JMSN Christian revealed that he is the elusive artist Pearl, shortly after dropping Pearl's new album, Closer. In a handwritten letter posted to his social media, he wrote, “I started Pearl to have another creative outlet besides JMSN. White Room Records is about freedom. Be what you want to be.”
Christian Berishaj, better known by his stage name JMSN (pronounced Jameson), is an American singer-songwriter, record producer, as well as a multi-instrumentalist, music engineer, and mixer, from Eastpointe, Michigan. JMSN's debut album, Priscilla, was released in 2012; he wrote and produced the album by himself, and directed the music videos accompanying its release.

10) Pearl was a Japanese rock band fronted by Naomi Tamura (田村直美).

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pearl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.