There is more than one artist with this name: 

(1) Pedestrian is a UK based electronic DJ and producer. A notorious sound wanderer, sonic sculptor and dancefloor master, Pedestrian’s intricate, crystallised production and an instinct for DJ sets that can captivate any club has seen him ranked in K Magazine’s ‘10 Bass Music Artists To Watch Out For In 2012’. And with very good reason. 
With universally strong releases on Push & Run, 2nd Drop, Brownswood and Metalheadz, Pedestrian (also known as Jack Sibley) flows over genre constraints with sounds that submerse the home listener and entrance the heads on any dancefloor with penetrating basslines, crystallised synths, organic audio sampling and crackling melodic harmonies. 
His first 12” ‘Hei Poa’ on Push & Run garnered massive critical acclaim, lauded for its high production value and a dancefloor impact only enhanced by an ethereal, hypnotic quality. Support has been coming in strong from luminaries such as Gilles Peterson, Bonobo, Commix, Ifan Dafydd, and Huw Stephens, and his remixes for Gang Colours, Emeli Sandé’ and a massive Lauryn Hill bootleg with close associates Maribou State have been creating considerable hype. 
In 2013, Pedestrian’s dreamy tune “Hoyle Road” claims the historic second release slot on the legendary James Zabiela’s Born Electric imprint.

(2) Pedestrian (AKA the Pedestrian) is the pseudonym of rapper James Brandon Best. Possibly the least well known of anticon's co-founders, his first release, the 12" "The Toss & Turn", wasn't issued until 2004, though he had made several appearances on compilations and was part of one-off groups Stuffed Animals & Object Beings. Pedestrian's full-length debut, Unindian Songs, Vol. 1, came out in 2005. Asides from guest spots on records by other anticon accomplices such as Telephone Jim Jesus and Themselves, he has not released anything since.

(3) Pedestrian is a rock band from Los Angeles consisting of: Joel Shearer (vocals, guitars) Zac Rae (keyboards, guitars)  Blair Sinta (drums) and Joe Karnes (bass). Members have contributed as session and touring musicians to the music of: Alanis Morissette, Damien Rice, Our Lady Peace, Annie Lennox, John Cale, Fiona Apple, Gnarls Barkley, Dido, Jane’s Addiction, Carly Simon, and Lindsey Buckingham. They have 4 independently released CDs: the Electric and Acoustic EPs (2003)  Ghostly Life (2006) and their newest album Sidegeist (2008) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pedestrian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.