Pegataur is a power duo that plays heavy rock influenced by metal, doom, and punk.  Add to this a theoretical foundation that draws from the world's great esoteric traditions and suddenly a new vision of the universe emerges which Pegataur calls simply: Musick. 
 
Pegataur was formed in 2007 by Aaron Levin (drums) and Eric Murray (guitar) in Oakland, CA.  They had previously honed their horned hands in bands such as Stay Gold Pony Boy and legendary cockrockers Boyjazz (Frenetic Records).  After an impromptu voyage which resulted in the song "Divine Young Horse" (track 9 on Eternal Flight) it became clear that much more was at stake.  Aaron & Eric proceeded to harness the elementals through their chosen musickal weapons to great effect.  

The results are the 11 tracks found on their debut album Eternal Flight, which is available on For Once Records (release date: November 4, 2008).  

Though the jams were indeed righteous, Pegataur embarked on a deeper journey to understand their spontaneous creations.  Thus began the development of "The Pegataur Working", a custom designed software package created by Eric that analyzes the musical structure of each song in an effort to correlate it with the wisdom of the many esoteric doctrines in which Pegataur is initiated.  The initial fruits of this research are the song titles as well as the corresponding sigils depicted on the cover of Eternal Flight.  Pegataur vows to continue their researches in an effort to better understand their music and the universe from which it sprang.
 
Today Pegataur is working on new material while blowing away audiences with their live show.  Their intense performances involve a battery of guitar amps, each with a unique effects chain, as well as the famous "golden cannon" drum set which leaves audiences wondering how the hell 2 people can make so much noise.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pegataur">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.