Peggy Sue is a name of at least three artists:

1) Russian bedroom pop singer-songwriter, also known as rinona wyder. In March 2018, he released album named 6ame 6ad 6tory on  his bandcamp.

2) An indie folk band, from Brighton, England (formerly known as Peggy Sue & the Pirates and Peggy Sue & the Pictures when they merged with Left With Pictures for The Body Parts EP in 2008). They have toured with a number of well-known artists in the UK, inc: Kate Nash, The Maccabees & Mumford & Sons.

In June 2008, the band announced that the were shortening their name from 'Peggy Sue & the Pirates' to just 'Peggy Sue'. They have also released music under the names: Peggy Sue and the Pictures (Left with Pictures collaboration) & Peggy Sue & Les Triplettes.

On 10 April 2009, they signed to US-based Yep Roc Records & through which "Body Parts EP" was a complimentary release. Later that year, 9 December, they signed with Wichita Recordings & the label announced the release of the band's début album, Fossils and Other Phantoms, for April 2010.

Sites: Wikipedia and Discogs

3) A country music singer-songwriter (aka Peggy Sue Webb, born 24 Mar 1947, in Butcher Holler, KY, USA), who had brief success, in the late 60s. She is a sister of, two popular country performers, Loretta Lynn & Crystal Gayle.

She moved to Indiana  at the age of 12 due to her father's illness. She then began performing with her sisters in Indiana, and then became a featured act in Lynn's early shows. Sue helped write a few of Lynn's compositions, including "Don't Come Home A' Drinkin' (With Lovin' on Your Mind)." In 1969, she signed with Decca Records and released her debut single, "I'm Dynamite," which went into the Country Top 30. That year, she released an album of the same name, and the second single from that album titled, "I'm Gettin' Tired of Babyin' You" also reached the Top 30. After Sue had a hit with her most successful single, "All-American Husband," she left Decca Records after releasing two albums. She recorded two albums in the 70s for two small labels.

After 1970, she didn't appear on the Billboard country charts until 1980, where she had a string of minor hits off of her second husband, Sonny Wright's, label Doorknob. After 1983, her success declined and she began performing as a background singer and designing stage costumes for her sister, Crystal Gayle. She continues to perform today, occasionally with her two sisters. She had a daughter named Doyletta, but she was murdered by her daughter's then-husband. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Peggy+Sue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.