History of PEJAH began in 1997, founded by FERRY BARNEZ (vocals), Dinno ALEXIA (DRUMS), ANTOC ROTTEN Ratt (GUITARS) with the band name PEJAH in Surabaya. Name PEJAH contains philosophy / meaning 'Black Soul Awareness "which later in lagu2nya lifting tema2horror, death and life in the world and the hereafter and tema2 song could bring a dark metal souls. PEJAH color presenting the musical" Harmony Black Metal. "In 1998 , PEJAH issued her first album entitled "KESENGSARAAN KUBUR" which contains 8 songs which:
1. Ajaran Sesat
2. Ajal
3. Syair Kubur
4. Pejah
5. Lorong Kesengsaraan 
6. Pendosa
7. Lahirnya Ratu Kegelapan
8. Penebus Dosa

This album did not sell according to our predictions resulting live recordings were not good, but in fact this album is received and in demand by music fans blackmetal. This is the group sell the album until approximately 5000 pcs tape which is actually in the world of indie label includes the number of success. Besides showing the eksistensiannya PEJAH frequently invited to a live performance on the show surabaya underground events in and outside the city of Surabaya. Over time, in 2003 PEJAH again issued a second album titled " PENYIKSAAN JIWA". This album contains 6 tracks are:
1. Tabir Kegelapan
2. Hamparan Senja
3. Sosok Tuhan
4. Penyiksaan Jiwa
5. Hingga Akhir Zaman
6. Raja Neraka

This album is quite different from the first album, in terms of song material, the recording quality is better than ever. The album is also practically the same success with the first album that can be accepted by society blackmetal lovers. PEJAH with this album never participated in se asia black metal compilation released by the label from singapore and PEJAH've also offered to live performance in Singapore.

Personnel PEJAH now is;
- Ferry Barnez: Vocals
- Rotten Antoc Ratt: Guitars
- Harry Ghost Shreeder: Guitars
- Bulut Genderuwo: Bass
- Dinno Alexia: Drums
- Rommy Thunder: Keyboards
- Nindya Angeline: Backing Vocals (For Additional Player) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pejah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.