There are a few artists who use the name Penny, and this includes:

1.Penny is a new AV project from Asher Levitas (Old Apparatus and Saa) and writer/ artist Michael Crowe (Mysterious Letters) .

The debut Penny EP was released in March 2014. It sees Levitas plait and whip spectral R&B, mutant Techno, sombre Acid House and Technicolor industrial while still pulling elements from his previous releases as part of Old Apparatus and Saa.

Crowe provides the capslocked costumes for Levitas’ audio to try on and admire itself. Clotting colour stunts and abstract gymnasiums are all flushed and panting puppied into your computer. 


2. A female m.c. representing Plague Language and Fake Four Inc. .  

A poet and rapper with an affinity for the human condition, Penny released her first album,  The Clockforth Movement (Plague Language), in 2002 — recorded between the ages of 19 and 21. A youthful examination of religion, gender, and domestic life, Penny’s follow-up CD-R, Miscellanea, released in 2004, demonstrated a more grounded style, along with remixes of previous tracks. Always inventive with language, rhyme, and narrative, the marriage of singing and rap, and the multi-layering of vocals, Penny continued to create music over the next few years —occasionally making appearances on compilations and other artists’ albums (including on “Not Sure,” a song on Ceschi's  They Hate Francisco False album, released in 2006). Written and recorded in her early 20s, Twenties Hungry: The Unbound Anthems of Yesteryear, captures and confronts a period of Penny’s life that knew major shifts in aspirations and expectations, the changing and breaking of relationships, love, heartache, and death. She also began experimenting with making beats and produced three of the album’s tracks. While this music has spent many years tucked into the darkest corners of some since-forgotten closet, while they’re sometimes rough in delivery and raw in content — these songs were meant to be heard, to find their own better-lit corner in the realm of hip hop music.

3. The English stage name for the artist 戴佩妮

4. A Korean artiste whose songs include "A fan in love"

5. An artiste who sings for the game O2Jam. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Penny">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.