Brett-Michael Renard Jones, also known as Penthos, is an American musician, singer, rapper, and songwriter of many aspects. Although he is best known for his founding of and musical role in the Melodic Deathcore band Unto Acheron, he is also known for delving into other various projects, including his rap project, Penthos.

Brett was born on November 27, 1990 in the small town of Tyler, TX. At the age of 4, his parents moved to Dallas, TX where he received a wide acceptance of other cultures. Ever since that age, he had a very strong connection to creative arts. He grew up singing in choirs and picked up painting, but it wasn't until the age of 15 that he would decide to start what would become his musical career. 

At 18, Brett's mother died, which created a rift in his music, which was abated for some time. However, in 2009, he formed his melodic deathcore band Unto Acheron, which he is still a part of to this day. The band is heavily influenced by Greek mythology, as this topic has been one of Brett's main obsessions since childhood. Since then, he has created and become founder of Decimator Magazine, Spartan Recordings, Athenian Design and is working on many other projects.

In mid-2011, Brett decided to stick his hands into a project unfamiliar to him, his rap alias Penthos. As this alias, he is working on releasing a free EP for his rap songs.

"It's not something I'm used to doing. If you would've told me 3 years ago that I would be working on a rap project right now, I would've laughed. But it's not your bitches-and-hoes stereotypical bullshit. All my material is meaningful."

And this is apparent with his alias. Penthos, in Greek mythology, is the god of grief, which is what much of Brett's lyrical content is about. Sadness, grief, hope, love, and everything in between are just some of the emotions covered by Penthos, woven in almost a poetic style.

"Penthos is my way of getting out everything I have ever felt, words I couldn't say, and things I couldn't do in the right moment. It's a movement, because I want to move something in anyone who listens to my shit."

Although just at the beginning of this project, there are some great things in store for Brett as Penthos.

"Eos, in Greek mythology, is the goddess of the dawn. Right now I'm in an Eos era, but I'm hoping one day to have my Hemera [The day]." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Penthos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.