Numerous artists have performed under the moniker "People":


1) An avant-rock duo, consisting of Mary Halvorson of Trevor Dunn's Trio Convulsant on guitar and lead vocals, and Kevin Shea of Storm and Stress on drums and backing vocals. The music is a dissonant mix of free-jazz-esque drumming and stacatto and complex arrangements. The lyrics cover rather unusual topics, some of theme being complex opaque. The band also utilizes ridiculously long song titles.

2) A Japanese Psychedelic Rock band formed in 1971, who recorded a Buddhist concept album. Guitar god Kimio Mizutani plays guitar on the album.

3){Note: This band is actually called "People!" (with the exclamation mark) and not "People" (without the exclamation point) References to this group should be moved to the entry for "People!"}. A late-'60s California band, People hit the Top 20 in 1968 with a cover version of a  song by The Zombies, "I Love You." Aside from that single, their brand of psychedelic- and soul-influenced heavy rock found minimal commercial success. Group member Larry Norman eventually became a noted figure in contemporary Christian music.

4) A Norwegian pop duo, consisting of Tore Holm (lead vocal amd harmonica) and Torstein Bieler (vocal and synth). They only released one album "Talk to Me" Bahamas records A/S (BHLP 1208)in 1985.

5) An Israeli experimental grindcore/metal band that released a self titled album on Relapse Records in 1994. Members went on to many other solo/side projects including Infectzia. Lineup was:
Eyal Megged - Keyboards
Omer Haziz - Bass
Eran Rotzak - Guitars
Idan Kupferberg - Vocals
Ran Jurgenson - Drums

6) A Japanese noise punk band that plays the Gai/Swankys type of catchy noise. Has a demo on CD-R from 2007 and a 7" released on Damaging Noise Records in December 2008/January 2009.

7) A Canadian garage rock/lo-fi duo which consisted of Robert DiNinno (vocals, guitar) and Chris Dewalt (drums).  One album, Morlockville, was recorded in August 2009.

8) "Bedroom recording" side project of OK Go bassist Timothy Nordwind <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/People">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.