PERCIVAL SCHUTTENBACH, formed in Lubin, Poland in 1999, is a musical group which includes several projects. Projects vary mostly in instruments and repertoire.

Projects:
Percival Schuttenbach:
Founded in 1999 in Poland, play folk-metal music – a mix of Slavic culture and strong, heavy sounds. The main members of the band are charismatic two leaders: the cellist and singer Katarzyna Bromirska and the guitarist Mikołaj Rybacki, who – together with the rest of the band – create amazing, energetic shows. Percival is known mostly as a co-composers of the “Witcher 3: Wild Hunt” soundtrack, which was awarded multiple times and is considered one of the best game soundtracks ever made. The group gave their shows all over the Europe, had many their own tours in Poland and abroad and also supported such stars as Marylin Manson, Paradise Lost or Arkona and Korpiklaani.

PERCIVAL:
This project was founded as a result of fascination with history and culture of ancient Slavs. Percival is known as the co-author of the “Witcher 3: Wild Hunt” game soundtrack – awarded, world-wide famous music. The band is also the co-composer of “Równonoc” album, which was the mix of Slavic sounds with hip-hop and which became a Diamond Record. Percival released five official albums, including “Slava” albums triptych, but their music can be found on various records, like audiobooks: “Vikingaasaga” and “Borek and the god of Slavs”. The band gave shows all accross the Europe, but not only – they also visited such distant places like Canada. Percival’s music can be heard in many documentaries related to history and old times of Slavs and Vikings. The band is known worldwide as promotours and lovers of Slavic culture and history.

PERCIVAL WILD HUNT LIVE:
It’s the amazing musical show performed by Percival group – co-authors of the “Witcher 3: Wild Hunt” game soundtrack, multiple award winners (i.a. MocArt 2015 together with Marcin Przybyłowicz and Mikołaj Stroiński), who performed all over the Europe and world. During the Wild Hunt Live show the group presents music that is perfectly known to any Witcher game fan – songs that became a part of the soundtrack, mostly in their original, initial versions.
The video projection was created specifically for the show from game fragments and video materials that hasn’t been published before. Beautiful lights, stunning dance plus aerial acrobatics, wonderful costumes and scenography altogether create magical atmosphere. Wild Hunt Live got lots of positive reviews – both from journalists and from the audience. It’s a treat not only for fans of computer games, but for all those who love beautiful music, amazing voices, interesting instruments, folk and fantasy world.

Percival Schuttenbach is created by:
Mikolaj Rybacki (electric guitar, saz, mandoline, plugged string instruments, vocal)
Katarzyna Bromirska (electric cello, Byzantine lyre, accordion, flutes, vocal)



http://www.percival.pl
http://www.percivalwhl.com
https://www.youtube.com/user/percivalschuttenbach
INSTAGRAM:
@percivalwhl
@katarzyna_cello
@mikolaj_rybacki <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Percival+Schuttenbach">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.