In mid 2006, with the end of the heavy metal band Travil (Itapetininga / SP), the members and friends Thariel Manteiga(bass) and Glauco Barros (guitar), certain of the will to continue playing together and still have the goal of a great band, invite Andre Xavier, drummer for the death metal band Vulture (Itapetininga / SP), then take up to an uncompromising sound, playing covers of old songs and band Travil.

With the assurance of great rapport, expertise and common goals, are invited to join the band Danilo Moraes (vocals) and Rick Leite (guitar), from the hard rock band Scarekrow (Itapetininga, São Paulo, Brazil), and in April 2007 comes the PERC3PTION.

PERC3PTION, which means perception, makes an analogy to the ability to create something new and unique, amounting to different tastes and influences of its members, resulting in different perceptions people who listen to their music and read their letters.

With Danilo Moraes (vocals), Rick Leite (guitar), Thariel Manteiga (bass), Glauco Barros (guitar) and Andre Xavier (drums), the band PERC3PTION composed his first song, The Third Eye, whose theme is virtual reality and the domination of machines over men.

During 2007 and 2008 the band wrote several songs that blend melody and weight, feeling and technique, always with elaborate letters on dark themes and controversial, performing at various shows and festivals in Sao Paulo State, showing his work and always trying to do it the best possible way

Also in 2008, following the departure of Daniel Moraes (vocals), the PERC3PTION began recording the debut EP "Insights", recorded at Studio HP by Aldo Disep and mixed and mastered at Caverna Digital Studio by Rafael Rosa.

"Insights", which contains four previously unreleased tracks and a bonus featuring Leandro Caçoilo (Eterna), was released in June 2009 and has been released by the specialized media in Brazil and abroad, together with the various promotional shows for the EP.

In March 2010, Thariel Manteiga (vocals / bass) announces his departure and the band due to personal problems, some of the need to assemble a new team, this time with a frontman, a long selection begins in search of new members.

Pedro Sant `Anna, was chosen to complete the string trio in June 2010. Three months later Luiz Poleto takes the vocals and completes the formation of the new PERC3PTION. In April 2011, citing musical differences, Pedro Sant `Anna withdrew from the band, leaving the post to Rodolfo Liberato, who has since competently performing his role as bassist of PERC3PTION band.

The quintet's debut show in Itapetininga occurred in the month of May, where they performed several original songs that will be part of the new album, which pre-production is underway.

In 2011 the band's main objective is the recording of their debut, combining the experience of the EP "Insights" to new compositions the band and the strength of the new training. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Perc3ption">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.