There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) Perfect Crime was a Norwegian rock band from Trondheim (1987-90's)
2) Perfect Crime was a Norwegian rock band from Sandnes (2006/2007-2008?)
3) Perfect Crime was a Russian heavy metal/hard rock band. 
4) Perfect Crime was a band from Northern Ireland. 
5) Perfect Crime was an American classic rock band. 

1) Blonde On Blonde later renamed Perfect Crime was a Norwegian rock band  from Trondheim who existed from 1987 to the early 90s. Blonde On Blonde had the following members: Bente Småvik (vocals,  former Four Jets), Chris Candy (named Kristin Renanger - now Sjöberg, vocals), Jimmy Iversen (guitar, Road), Roger Gilton (keyboards, ex Chris Candy ), Steinar Eikum (bass, ex TNT) and last but certainly not least, drummer Willy Bendiksen with a past in bands like Fall, Road and St. Helena. Chris Candy had her own band before, with the same name as her.
The band was thus not without experience. The music was pretty heavy, but more in a Bon Jovi direction than what Road had been. They toured Norway and got plenty of attention when it was a name dispute and trial against the Stavanger duo Blonde On Blonde.
Blonde On Blonde released their first and only LP on a Dutch company.  The Album sold very well in Norway. So began lows, partly as a result of personnel changes. Roger Gilton left, as did Chris Candy, who married and moved to Sweden. With one blonde out of the band, disappeared much of the point of the band name, so they became Perfect Crime.
Perfect Crime won a contract with EMI, which brought the band to record an album in England. Producer was Bernie Marsden, former member of Whitesnake. According to one of the band members EMI used hundreds of thousands of dollars on them, but when the album was finished, they spent nothing on marketing. The band paid for ads in VG even without visible sales results.
The band started to disintegrate. Musicians came and went. Sid Ringsby (eg Road and Tindrum) joined on bass in the early 90´s, fredrikstad guitarist Jon Pettersen took over from Jimmy Iversen on guitar. The band disbanded in March 1993. Bente Bente Småvik started Bente Smaaviks Little Band, Willy Bendiksen concentrated on Bad Habitz with Jimmy Iversen and Ronni Le Tekrø and later Wild Willy's Gang. Sid Ringsby has subsequently been in Diezel, Wild Willy's Gang and TNT.

2) Perfect Crime was a Norwegian rock band inspired by Guns N’ Roses, Led Zeppelin, Aerosmith, The Rolling Stones and AC/DC. They formed in 2006 or 2007, and split in 2008(?), with Troy McConaughy on vocals.

3) Perfect Crime was a Russian heavy metal/hard rock band. 

4) Perfect Crime was a band from Northern Ireland. 

5) Perfect Crime was an American classic rock band.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Perfect+Crime">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.