From the beginning of 2008 the line-up of perfect chaos changed as the bass player Antti Holappa retired from the band. Antti wanted to concentrate on his other projects and the shift took place in complete mutual understanding as it was more or less part of the bands natural progress. The friendship and co-operation with him will be preserved and ye be warned... you haven't heard the last note from him yet!
 
The place behind the bass was shortly replaced by Olli-Pekka Karvonen who was first introduced Jan 19th on gig at Seinäjoki. His style of playing fitted perfectly to that of chaos's and will certainly bring it's own sharpness and tone to the sound of Perfect Chaos. Olli has previously influnced in bands such as Embraze and Maple Cross.

 Perfect Chaos’s “genre” is hard to describe because there is no actual term for this kind of music. They call it near-death metal because it has elements from classic death metal but there are also modern influences involved. Terho is the main song composer and a guitar virtuoso who can play riffs that seem almost impossible to keep up with. Drummer Panu is really the backbone of the band. He keeps the chaos together perfectly with his precise and highly skilful drumming.

Sweden is very well known for “this kind of music” so to get a some kind of picture what it’s about, here’s a few pointers: The Haunted, Meshuggah, At the Gates… Perfect Chaos is not just one of those bands, oh no. PC’s music comes from the northern Finland which brings it’s own violent and extremely hostile sound.

Perfect Chaos was alive and kicking already in 2001. There was only one problem…Who the hell could lead this kind a group of twisted fucks? There were no vocalists around who could complete Perfect Chaos’s sound and bring it all together as a loaded shotgun pointing at you…ready to shred you in to pieces. One night this group saw the answer. Grinister was on a tour at local club and PC’s members liked what they saw and heard. They contacted the vocalist of Grinister soon after the gig and sent him an unsung demo to work with. Grinister’s Aki loved it and went to studio to throw in some of his stuff. Before the demo got back to PC’s fellas, the manager of the studio wanted to make an album for Perfect Chaos after he heard it.

What can you do besides get together and give the world the hell they asked for…

Line-up until 2008

Aki Häkkinen - Vocals 
Terho Tikkanen - Guitar 
Janne Karjalainen - Guitar
Antti Holappa - Bass
Panu Heikkinen - Drums  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Perfect+Chaos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.