Perpetual Doom formed in October of 1992 with Scott Estes on vocals, Ken Robert on Guitar and vocals, Sean Thompson on Bass, Bill Brault filling in on Guitar, and Steve Gonsalves on Drums. 

Due to artistic differences Sean was asked to leave the band after the first show. Perpetual Doom then decided to have Bill permanently take on the position of Bass player. For the next six months, exhumed guitarist, Matt Bachand (now Shadows Fall) filled in on guitar. Perpetual Doom played three shows with this line up while looking for a permanent guitarist.

In March of '93 vocalist Scott Estes left the band to join the Navy. Again Perpetual Doom called on Matt Bachand to fill in, this time on vocals. 

This lineup stayed the same until August of 1993 when Phil left to join the marines. Perpetual Doom remained inactive for nine months in Phil's abscense. 

In June of 1994 upon Phil's return. Perpetual Doom resumed writing with increased intensity. 

In October of '94 Perpetual Doom played their first show in over a year, with very good response. With Ken and Phil covering vocals and a definitive direction in their music, Perpetual Doom decided it was time to record. 

In mid-February of 1995, Perpetual Doom entered the studio with Jim Fogarty of Zing Studio's in Westfield, Massachusetts who is also later responsible for recording bands such as Killswitch Engage and Split Shift. Sorrows End was the title of the pending demo. Financial and production problems pushed the release further and further back. Finally on August 3rd of '95 Sorrows End was released to an overwhelming response. 

Perpetual Doom is currently not together. Band members Bill Brault and Ken Robert moved on to form the band Split Shift. Phil Labonte moved on to form All That Remains and for a while fronted the band Shadows Fall. Steve Gonsalves has a TV show on the Sci-Fi channel called Ghost Hunters. And Matt Bachand is currently in Shadows Fall. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Perpetual+Doom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.