Perpetual Dreams is a melodic/traditional heavy metal band, created at the year of 1995, in south Brazil.

With influences on Iron Maiden, Deep Purple, Yngwie Malmsteen, Dio and other bands, Perpetual Dreams began to compose their first songs in a style that mixes the traditional and melodic metal, with characteristics of neo-classic and hard rock.

Already with some songs composed, Perpetual Dreams was selected between over 200 bands from south Brazil to participate with two songs of a compilation of south brazilian called “Rock na Rua”, in 1997.

Giving sequence to the work, in 1998 Perpetual Dreams launch his first demo-CD, called “The Dark Way Project”, with six songs. This demo had obtained a great repercussion in the specialized national and international media, having besides, through this demo, been invited to participate of an international compilation of the American label Delinquent Records. This compilation was called “Alchemy : Metal into Gold”.

After the release of “The Dark Way Project” and a modification in our line-up, changing the keyboardist and singer, the band start to work in the pre-production of their first official album. In the meantime, the band had made a serie of shows in south Brazil. With the pre-production of the first official album, Perpetual Dreams launched, in 2001, a second demo-CD, called “Forever”, receiving excellent reviews of national and international specialized media and fans.

In the earlier 2002, Perpetual Dreams start the record sessions of his first album, named “Eyes of Infinite”. During the whole 2002, Perpetual Dreams, split their time in the studio, working on the CD and on shows, playing together with Blaze Bayley and Shaman.

The debut álbum “Eyes of Infinite” was recorded at Clinica Studio, in Curitiba (south Brazil), where already recorded other brazilian bands, like Dragonheart and Steel Warrior, with production of Murillo da Ros and Perpetual Dreams. Erickson Cruz, who already had his good work show with bands like Shadow Mask, made the cover artwork.

Since september 2003, Perpetual Dreams is in the Eyes of Infinite Tour, having shows programed in Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay.

The band has just released Arena. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Perpetual+Dreams">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.