Persistense, a contraction of the words 'to persist' and 'intense' was founded in the year 2000 in Den Bosch, the Netherlands. With a distinct style called “Swingthrash” and a self-titled six-track EP that received great response all over, vocalist Stefan van Vugt and his band mates played a lot of shows. Yet, due to continuous line-up struggles Persistense fell apart at the end of 2005.

Determined to not let go, now sole member Stefan began to search new blood for new beginning until he finally assembled a group of musicians with the same passion for metal that he possesses. Persistense was ready to be taken to a next level. The band’s musical direction changed from “Swingthrash” to a more powerful, dynamic, groovy and diverse kind of metal, influenced by a wide variety of styles.  

The mind set in which Persistence composes, is to put the song above all the rest.  A song needs to be recognizable, needs to have a decent structure and last but not least, needs to have meaningful lyrics. With this in mind the band set their sight to the recording of a three-track promo, which was released in 2008. Again the reviews were great, and all of this enabled the band to climb onto stages all over the Netherlands and beyond once more, wrecking them in the meantime.

In the past years Stefan managed to arrange more than 50 gigs for his band. Persistense went on a small tour along with Dimension 7 in their “Infinite Madness” era  and shared stages with the likes of Devious, Dead by Dawn, Xystus, Demia, Pleurisy, The Dying and Mythlorian. In 2009, the icing on the cake was to open for Testament at the famous Dynamo Club in Eindhoven, Netherlands shortly before moving into the Excess Studios in Rotterdam, Netherlands in order to record their full-length debut album “In Blood And Heart” for their newly found label Deity Down Records. 

“In Blood And Heart” will take the band to yet another level. At this point, the future is looking bright for Persistense!!!


Discography:

“Persistense”2004 EP (Self-released).
“Promo”                2008 (Self-released).
“In Blood And Heart”Sep 14th 2009 (Deity Down Records)

 
Persistense is
Stefan van Vugt - vocals
Ralf van der Horst – guitars
Jacques Maas - guitars
Mark de Haas - bass
Bram Trommelen - drums

http://www.persistense.nl <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Persistense">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.