Persian Risk was a Cardiff, Wales-based heavy metal band formed in 1979, originally consisting of guitarists Phil Campbell and Dave Bell, vocalist Jon Deverill, bassist Nick Hughes, and drummer Razz. 

In late 1980, Deverill was headhunted by the Tygers Of Pan Tang and replaced by Carl Sentance, a former band mate of Hughes and Razz in Leading Star. New vocalist in place, Persian Risk issued the now highly collectible 'Calling For You' b/w 'Chase the Dragon' 7" in 1981 before sacking Dave Bell's replacement, Alex Lohfink, and soldiering on as a four-piece. The band made further headway by contributing the aforementioned 'Calling For You' to the "Heavy Metal Heroes Vol.2" compilation (Heavy Metal Records, 1982) and a new cut, '50.000 Stallions', to the "60 Minutes Plus" cassette compilation (Neat Records, 1982), also issued on vinyl as "All Hell Let Loose" by Neat in conjunction with Italy's Base Records label in 1983. Adding to their tally, the band followed it up with the 'Ridin' High' b/w 'Hurt You' 7" single through Neat, which earned Risk their strongest reviews yet.

It would turn out to be the final recording with drummer Razz who was sacked in late 1983. He was briefly superseded by Dixie Lee (ex-Lone Star, Wild Horses) before a more permanent replacement was a found in Steve Hopgood (ex-Chinatown, Shy). The band also added a new second guitarist, Graham Bath (ex-Sphinx). Persian Risk were dealt a significant blow when founding member Phil Campbell successfully auditioned for Motörhead, who would tap his old band for the support slot on their 1984 UK tour. Campbell's successor was Phil Vokins (ex-Tyrant, Wrathchild). Risk also signed a new record deal with London-based Zebra Records and issued the 'Too Different' 12" EP in 1984 which saw the band temper their raw approach in favor of a somewhat more polished sound.

That same year, Persian Risk made their one and only national UK TV appearance when the band performed 3 songs - 'Women In Rock', 'Rise Up', and 'Too Different' - on Channel 4's ECT program. All three songs would later feature on their "Rise Up" LP which finally saw the light of day in 1986 on Metal Masters. By that time, the band had already disintegrated, the result of mounting frustration after years of hard work and failing to get that illusive big break. 

Nick Hughes exited to join Idol Rich and is now entrenched in Trance music under the pseudonym Toad. Drummer Steve Hopgood and guitarist Graham Bath both spent time in Paul Di'Anno's Battlezone and Paul Di'Anno's Killers (more recent Hopgood credits include NWOBHM veterans Tank).  Guitarist Phil Vokins reunited with former Wrathchild band mates Marc Angel and Eddie Starr in 2006, now going under the name Psychowrath. Vocalist Carl Sentance's post-Risk resume includes recording and touring activities with Tokyo Blade, Tredegar, the Geezer Butler Band, Paul Chapman's Ghost, Krokus, the Power Project (feat. members of Dio and Black Sabbath), and Deep Purple's Don Airey.  Sentance issued his first solo album, "Mind Doctor", in 2008.  

Original vocalist Jon Deverill now works as a successful actor using the stage name Jon de Ville. He most recently appeared in a national tour of 'Blood Brothers' in 2007 and 'The Sound of Music' in London in 2008. Co-founder/guitarist, Phil Campbell, has been a continuous member of Motörhead for the last 25 years and has recorded a total of 13 studio albums with the band. In 2005, Campbell won a prestigious Grammy Award with Motörhead in the 'Best Metal Performance' category for their cover of Metallica's 'Whiplash.'

Classic line-up:
Carl Sentance - vocals
Phil Campbell - guitars 
Nick Hughes - bass
Razz - drums 

Persian Risk MySpace: 
http://www.myspace.com/persianriskuk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Persian+Risk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.