There are several bands operating under the name Pest.  Four black metal bands (1,2,3,4), one post-rock band (5) one punk rock band (6) One jazz/hip hop/electronic band (7). and one breaks/dubstep house collective spelled P.E.S.T (8)

1) Pest is a raw black metal band is from Sweden, which was formed in 1997 by Necro and Equimanthorn. Pest have released three full-length albums (Desecration, In Total Contempt, Rest In Morbid Darkness, and The Crowning Horror),  four EPs, and three demos. Their lyrical themes usually involve death, hate and misanthropy. 

2) The second black metal band called Pest is inactive nowadays. It's from Finland and has released Hail The Black Metal Wolves Of Belial. Its ex-member is Werwolf from Satanic Warmaster and Horna.

3) The third black metal band called Pest is from Germany. They released the album "Ara" through Full Moon Productions. The album was recorded in 1999 in their rehearsal room. It featured 3 bonus tracks, Warriors of Darkness (special recording), Am Ende des Weges (special recording) and At Dawn.

4) There is another band called Pest from Germany. Its name was firstly Nordlys, then Pest, later Die Pest, now Schwarze Wut. They released the EP Wikinger/Feuer der Nacht, and the split Nordlys \'til Pest.

5) Pest is a new  post rock  band from Turkey.
http://www.myspace.com/pesttheband

6) There is also a Japanese punk rock band called Pest.

7) Pest is a band from the UK, playing electronic music with tinges of jazz, funk and hip hop.
Current members are  Matt Chandler (guitar), Benjamin Mallott  (DJ / keys), Thomas Marriott (trombone) and Wayne Urquhart (cello), with all members contributing to the programming and production of the band's music. Until 2006 the group also included MC/DJ/producer Adrian Josey (aka Pasta / Saffrolla). 
Chandler and Marriott grew up together in Matlock, Derbyshire, UK. Chandler studied music in Liverpool, and Marriott in London. It was there that Marriott met the others and the band began, emerging from the Spynaworkshop collective.  After self-releasing a number of white label singles they were signed to Ninja Tune, and have released two albums so far: Necessary Measures and All Out Fall Out. After a hiatus from 2006 to 2008, they are currently in the process of recording a new album and recently put two new tracks on their myspace. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.