Petar Dundov is a Croatian producer and DJ, born in 1973 in Zagreb. From an early age he was fascinated with synthesized sound and the concept of developing new ways of composing. In 1989 he bought his first synthesizer and started making music influenced by Kraftwerk, Jean M. Jarre and Depeche Mode.

In 1993 he composed an anthem for the first Croatian rave party “Under City Rave,” which was soon after released as his first 12” single on Formaldehyde Records from Berlin. Berlin inspired him to move forward with his music and performance as a live act, showing his skills for the first time in the famous Berlin club, E-Werk. To connect even more closely to musical happenings in the electronic music scene he started DJing. He has also appeared under the aliases Soulslider and Pajazzo on the German label Adam&Eve, and the Loaded UK label.

With his brother Simon he started a project called Brother’s Yard in 1996, with an idea to break down Techno to its elemental parts and build it up again in a new experimental way. This was followed by a couple of powerful releases on the Absense and PV labels. Uncompromised, metallic, lo-fi, yet soulful techno is maybe the closest way to describe it.

In 1998 he worked with Pascal F.E.O.S. on the single “Sidechained,” and remixes of tracks from his album, “From the Essence of minimalistic sound.” He also joined with Jorg Henze in a couple of releases on the Federation of Drums and Delirium Red labels. For his softer output, named “TikaTaka” on the Phono Elements label, he produced a unique combination of Tech-House, Dub and Acid. Nevertheless, Petar appeared on Cristian Smith’s Tronic label releasing the "Evolver" 12” single, which has been recognized as one of the ultimate dancefloor smashers by the end of Millenium.

In 2001 Petar presented his ambient works to Jeff Mills, which was followed by the release on Mills' label Tomorrow. “Sculptures 1-3” is a timeless concept with a more philosophical approach to music.

In 2002 Petar joined Belgian label Music Man, releasing two EPs and actual ”Kaskades EP,” voted the vital Techno release of the month April 2003 in Muzik magazine. His recent remix works include artists like Marco Bailey, Damon Wild, Pascal F.E.O.S. and Toni Rios. His music can be found on many compilations such as Cocoon C, PVLAB.com, Kozzmozz etc.

Until the present time Petar has released over 30 maxi singles, 3 albums of electronic dance music, traveled around the world performing in various clubs and festivals, these to name but a few: U-60311 (Frankfurt), Womb (Tokyo), Sensor (Zurich), Mazzo (Amsterdam), I Love Techno Outdoor 2003 (Belgium), Wire03 (Tokyo), Exit Festival (Serbia), MTV Valkana Beach Festival (Croatia), etc.

In his home city he has been organizing Perfection parties since 2000, with guest DJ’s from all around the world, keeping the electronic dance music scene alive and connected globally.

Clubs and events: E-Werk (Berlin), Womb (Tokyo), U-60311 (Frankfurt), Sensor (Zurich), Mazzo (Amsterdam), Stammheim (Kassel), M1 (Stuttgart), Butan (Wuppertal), Airport (Wutzburg), Das Boot (Cologne), Tor3 (Dusseldorf), Ambasada Gavioli (Izola), Perfection @The Best (Zagreb), I Love Techno Outdoor 2003 (Belgium), Exit Festival 2003 (Serbia), MTV Valkana Beach Festival 2002, 2003 (Croatia), Wire03 (Tokyo), etc.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Petar+Dundov">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.