Peter Evans is an American trumpet player based in New York, who specializes in improvisation and avant-garde music. Peter Evans has been a member of the New York City musical community since 2003, when he moved to the city after graduating from The Oberlin Conservatory of Music. Peter currently works in a wide variety of areas, including solo performance, chamber orchestras, performance art, free improvised settings, electro-acoustic music and composition.
      Peter Evans has been a member of the New York musical community since 2003, when he moved to the city after graduating Oberlin Conservatory with a degree in classical trumpet. Peter currently works in a wide variety of areas, including solo performance, chamber orchestras, performance art, free improvised settings, electro-acoustic music and composition. As a performer, Evans has been working to broaden the expressive range of his chosen instrument and enjoys playing with steady configurations of players and composers. Current bands include the Peter Evans Quartet, Moppa Elliott's terrorist bebop band Mostly Other People Do the Killing, the hyperactive improvisation duo Sparks (with Tom Blancarte), duo with trumpeter Nate Wooley, as well as a sustained interest in solo performance.   
      Other collaborators include: Mary Halvorson, Dave Taylor, Steve Beresford, Okkyung Lee, Keiji Haino, Jim Black, Evan Parker, Tyshawn Sorey, Zach Hill, Peter Brotzmann, Mark Gould, Weasel Walter, Tobias Delius, Joel Ryan, and Luka Ivanovic. In New York, Peter also performs contemporary notated music and is a member of the International Contemporary Ensemble (ICE). He has continued to perform on piccolo trumpet in Baroque settings, performing Brandenburg Concerto No. 2 at the Bargemusic series, and in Bach’s Mass in B Minor at St Peter’s Church. 
       Recent travels have brought Peter to venues and festivals in the U.S., Canada, Europe, the UK, and Southeast Asia. These include appearances at the Moers Festival, the Ulrichsberg Kaleidophon Festival, Bordeaux Jazz Festival, Jazz a Mulhouse, and the Free Music Festival in Antwerp. Recordings the self-titled first album of the Peter Evans Quartet (on firehouse12), the self-titled "Sparks" on Creative Sources, "This is Our Moosic" the third album by MOPDTK, on HotCup Records. New recordings include a 2-disc set of solo trumpet pieces, "Nature/Culture" on psi (April of 2009), and sideman appearences on TYFT's  "Smell the Difference" (Skirl) and Evan' Parker's "The Moment's Energy" (ECM)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Peter+Evans">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.