Pete Heller

Dance music afficiando Pete Heller is a 'one stop shop of kicking dance beats and modern soul music', and undoubtedly remains to be one of dance music¹s most influential producers and in demand DJs!


the break
1989, and Pete had the opportunity to became resident warm-up DJ to Danny Rampling at his legendary London house club, The Shoom Club. It was also at the Shoom Club where Pete met Terry Farley and together with Andy Weatherall, collaborated in his first co-production. The track, 'Raise' by Bocca Juniors, was released on the newly formed Boys Own Records label.Heller and Farley continued to work together remixing and producing for the likes of The Farm and Primal Scream. When the deal with London Records ended, both were instrumental in the formation of the independent Junior Boys Own label and continued to produce their own material under pseudonyms such as Fire Island, Roach Motel and Heller and Farley Project.

the music
Pete's impact on the world of dance music has been staggering. As part of 'Heller and Farley' , he has worked both as a remixer and producer, collaborating with artists as diverse as Kylie Minogue, Michael Jackson, Robert Owens, Janet Jackson, U2, Happy Mondays, Lisa Stansfield, aswell as producing the club classic 'Ultra Flava'.

As a individual he has achieved chart success with 'Big Love', and produced club dynamite with tracks such as 'Sputnik' and 'Big Room Drama'. His sought after studio wizardry has provided the opportunity to remix the likes of Faithless, Fatboy Slim, Daft Punk, Chemical Brothers, Moby, Jamiroquai, to name but a few from the glittering list.

the mixes
Pete's most recent and well received mix 'Dirty Grooves' was released on NRK Nightlife series.

little known fact
Any questions on quantum theory, Pete's your man! He has a degree in Physics from Manchester University.

the label
Pete has recently established his 'Phela Recordings' label. The labels has the unmistakeable Heller stamp to it with the recent relesase of Stylus Trouble¹s 'Stellar¹ finding flavour with the scenes biggest djs. With an arsenal of new tracks and Phela remixes the label is set to go from strength to strength in 2005.

Sites: SoundCloud. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pete+Heller">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.