Pete Miser’s new full-length album, Camouflage Is Relative reminds us why we used to love hip-hop, and shows us that we can again. Bicoastal and biracial this Portland, Oregon native has established a reputation for clever, intelligent songwriting, and speaker-cracking production in New York City’s underground hip-hop community. 

Half-Chinese and half-White, Pete identified with the counter culture qualities of hip-hop in the late eighties. His early immersion in Portland’s b-boy scene prompted him to develop skills not only as an m.c., but also as a producer, dj and graffiti writer, and inspired the creation of Ho-Made Media, his record label and design company. 

In 1992 Pete Miser’s audience grew when he assembled 5 Fingers Of Funk, his nine piece live band. As manager and front man of the Fingers, Pete toured the entire U.S. sharing stages with the likes of Maceo Parker, The Roots and Run D.M.C. During this period, 5 Fingers Of Funk released two albums on Ho-Made Media and sold out live venues throughout the region. 

After six years with the Fingers, Pete moved to New York City to explore hip-hop in its birthplace. In 1999 Arista artist, Dido recruited him as the dj in her live band. With Dido, Pete toured the world, appeared on numerous television shows and began work on Radio Free Brooklyn, his critically acclaimed 2002 solo album. 

Ho-Made Media entered into a joint venture with independent music marketing company, Coup de Grace for Pete Miser’s forthcoming album, Camouflage Is Relative. On this album, Pete’s imagination goes into overdrive with songs ranging from the hilariously philosophical Scent Of A Robot about a cubicle-dwelling everyman who discovers he’s actually a programmed robot, to the explosive emo-anthem So Sensitive that details his failings as a stereotypical hip-hop Casanova. Fourteen songs deep, Camouflage Is Relative is a guided tour through New York’s urban underground marked by off-kilter sample driven beats and rugged turntablism.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pete+Miser">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.