There used to be several Peters but since the reunification of Peter Piek in 2006 from the remaining partial personalities, the german artist (painter, songwriter, author and multi-instrument player) born in Karl-Marx-City (former East Germany) tries to meld Painting and Music to a new identity. He was studying Fine Art and Painting at the prestigious Leipzig Art Acadamy, when founded the artist group Malfront, wrote 3 books about his vision of painting. His quintessence: Painting just starts primarily with painting! He plays shows in wide parts of Europe and has been on tour in the United States twice, playing South by South West Festival in Austin as well as Pygmalien Musicfestival in Illinois. He played shows with Art Brut, Moneybrother, Robocop Kraus, Saalschutz and was supporting John Watts at Paradiso in Amsterdam. Noisedeluxe Records released Peter's self produced record "I Paint It On A Wall" 2010 in Germany, which was vowed in German music press. Peter Piek's paintings has been seen in exhibitions in Germany and Eastern Europe. The Leipziger book publishing house just released his 1st and 2nd Art-Fiction book.
Peter Piek is the consummate artist. His work remains bold and distinct across a broad range of media. He's interested in what he calls "the moment of creating". His lyrics owe a touching melancholy, without abdicating great euphoria. In many songs he copes personal experiences, posivite experiences and defeats. His music shows great songwriter potential. Peter Piek is rock, is guitar, is indie. Following the motion of 60s art -from Velvet Underground, Bob Dylan or painters like Ernst Wilhelm Nay or de Kooning - his work states in music and painting also something sketchy, an unclouded & fresh move that unites rock, beat & art in an inspiring way. 
Critics get rather complicated when they talk about Peter Piek as painter, using words like 'Being', the 'Physically compound consistency of the canvas' and 'the rhythmic breathing' which is 'synthesised' 'into an interwoven interaction'. One stereotype is not enough. If you try describe Peter Piek's music, you might classify it as Independent Rock, although it would hardly fit as this is not quite correct. The term Pop would not come close to his ambition for art, as his Songs are too ecclectic and complex. Peter Piek's voice is unusual. He sings in a high pitch, but not in head voice. It sounds similiar to Neil Young and Sigur Ros. The shows are always intensive. Eveyone who ever saw Peter Piek live knows the endorphin soaring flights which undilated an evening with Peter Piek brings. The beat of the drums animate head, feets and hands. The funky bass lines create a pleasant oscillate feel in the stomach region. The virtuostic guitar riffs make a proffesional air guitar player out of every normal listener and the voice bewitches the senses. A mixture from Pop, Rock and Funk with catchy melodies and a dash of critical melancholie. 
German Art Scientist Ina Gille describes it like that: "Colour patterns and structures that are music statements which express the love of life. "Damn great paintings" as he points out. You see a garden designed by drawings and paintings with rhythmic and melodious patterns. As if someone were dancing across the screens. A new perspective and get an impression of what opposes each form of power: the free expression of life."  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Peter+Piek">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.