Peter Kernel is a Switzerland and Canada art punk band including Aris Bassetti (guitar, voice, graphic designer) and Barbara Lehnhoff (bass, voice, filmmaker). Inspired by a love story PK are engagingly intimate and in a primitive and sexy manner play pop rock music.

The band initially got together in 2005 to write the soundtrack for the experimental musical Like A Giant In A Towel (Locarno International Film Festival 2006), directed by bass player Barbara.

In 2008 PK releases their first album How To Perform A Funeral followed by The Ticket Ep on 10’’ vinyl in 2009, both for their own label On the Camper Records.

Suddenly PK are invited by Spencer Krug from the canadian band Wolf Parade (Sub Pop) to open for their European tour in September 2010. They soon share stages in venues such as the Hmv Forum (London), Thekla (Bristol), Point Ephèmere (Paris)…

Throughout 2009/2010, to blow off steam PK explore the theme of improvisation and in February 2011 in collaboration with a number of friend artists, they release the audiovisual experiment Il Pomeriggio Non Si Sa Mai Bene Cosa Fare (12’’ vinyl + the video Man & Nature, On the Camper Records).

During the 2010 Christmas holidays PK record twelve new songs for their second album. June 1st they released the single Anthem Of Hearts (on 7” vinyl) for the french label Africantape. The second record White Death & Black Heart was released on October 3rd 2011 (Africantape).

–

Throughout the years Peter Kernel shared stages with inspiring bands such as Mogwai, Trans Am, Cat Power, Enon, Blonde Redhead, Shannon Wright, Wolf Parade, Why?, Twin Shadow, Wild Beasts, Trentemøller, The Notwist, Sunset Rubdown, Gregor Samsa and many more…and performed at clubs and festivals such as Hmv Forum (London), Thekla (Bristol), Glee (Birmingham) 59 :1 (Munich) Point Ephèmere (Paris), Soundlabs Festival (Abruzzo), Paleo Festival (Nyon), Bad Bonn Kilbi (Düdingen), Cully Jazz Festival (Cully) and many more… Mondonico, Switzerland
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Peter+Kernel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.