Peter André is a UK-born, Australian-raised pop singer of Greek-Cypriot descent who had numerous hits in the mid to late 90s.  He later achieved a great deal of notoriety through reality-TV appearances and his highly publicized marriage with model Katie Price. However, after the couple split in 2009, he re-emerged with a successful album, "Revelation," which reached No. 3 in the UK charts and earned him some credibility.   

André was discovered on Australia's Talent Show "New Faces" in 1990 after performing numerous Bobby Brown hits. 

In 1992, André's singles "Drive Me Crazy" and "Gimme Little Sign" were released. In 1993, a self-titled album charted well in Australia and the hit singles "Funky Junky," "Let's Get It On,"  "Do You Wanna Dance"  and "To the Top" all hit the Australian Top 50 charts. In 1993, "Gimme a Little Sign" picked up an ARIA Award as the highest selling single of the year.

André is perhaps best known for his second UK hit, "Mysterious Girl" which reached No. 2 in 1996, and hit No. 1 when re-released in 2004 following an appearance on "I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here!" He previously had topped the UK charts with "Flava" and "I Feel You," both in 1996. 

His success dried up somewhat when André attempted to make the transformation between teen-pop heartthrob and mature R&B singer with mixed results.

In 1998 he released a UK Top 10 version of "Kiss The Girl" from Disney's "The Little Mermaid" before being dropped from his record label and disappearing from the public eye. This was until his "I'm A Celebrity" appearance in 2004, which led to his third No. 1 and spawned the No. 3 UK  hit "Insania." He reportedly wrote the song while filming the reality show, which featured Price. The public witnessed the relationship grow between the two, which turned them into tabloid staples.  

André and Price were married and had a son, Junior, in 2005, and a daughter, Princess Tiaamii, in 2007. The couple released an album of duets, "A Whole New World," which reached No. 20 on the British charts in 2006. 

News broke on 11 May 2009 that André and Price had separated after three and a half years of marriage.  André  said on the British TV show "This Morning" that there is little chance the couple will reconcile.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Peter+Andre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.