Petra Haden (born New York City, October 11, 1971) is an American violinist and singer. She is or has been a member of several bands, including that dog., Tito & Tarantula, The Rentals and The Decemberists; has contributed to recordings by Beck, Mike Watt, Luscious Jackson, Jimmy Eat World, Foo Fighters, Green Day, Weezer, Victoria Williams and Yuka Honda. She is the daughter of the jazz bassist Charlie Haden; the triplet sister of bassist Rachel Haden (her bandmate in that dog.) and cellist Tanya Haden (married to singer and actor Jack Black) with whom she has performed as The Haden Triplets; and the sister of bassist-singer Josh Haden, formerly leader of the group Spain.
In 1999 she released her first album, Imaginaryland, consisting mostly of a capella covers. In 2000, Petra was struck by a car while crossing a street in Los Angeles; the resulting injuries forced her out of performance for several months. In 2005 she released the home-recorded album Petra Haden Sings: The Who Sell Out (Bar/None), a complete a cappella rendition of The Who Sell Out. The project was suggested to Haden by longtime friend Mike Watt, who also gave her the eight-channel multi-track cassette recorder she used to make it. Funded in part by a Durfee grant and wanting to perform the work live, Haden created a new arrangement of The Who Sell Out for a ten woman a capella choir called Petra Haden & The Sellouts. The premier live performance of the full work occurred in July 2005 at the Ford Amphitheatre as a part of the "sound." concert series.
She has also released a self-titled collaboration with jazz guitarist Bill Frisell, and a collaboration with accordionist Miss Murgatroid (otherwise known as photographer Alicia J. Rose) entitled Bella Neurox.
She contributed to the recording of ØØ Void by drone metal band Sunn O))) and played on the debut and follow up album of Sunn o))) guitarist Greg Anderson's other doom metal band Goatsnake.
Of lately an acapella rendition of Let Your Love Shine is used in Prius commercials. The mp3 is available as a free download from the Toyota website. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Petra+Haden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.