1)Phantasmagoria was a Japanese visual kei band formed in November 2004 in Osaka by Kisaki, the Executive of Under Code Production which lasted until 2010.

2) Croatian Post punk/goth band. "Phantasmagoria chose a way through music with an idea of creating something different in the post punk sunset of Zagreb at the end of eighties. Inspiration for the name was found at the same titled The Damned album, but it also reminds about apparent fiction of universal truth." 

3) Phantasmagoria is a male/female experimental-electronic-indie-pop duo from Detroit, Michigan formed in 2010 by Christopher Jarvis and Lianna Vanicelli.

4)Phantasmagoria is a Dark Psytrance producer.
~~~

1)
Phantasmagoria was formed in November 2004 and their first single "Material Pain" was released in "Shoxx magazine" on December 21 of the same year.[1] The following day the group released its first Maxi-single, "Moonlight Revival".
Phantasmagoria was featured on the cover of a well-known visual kei magazine, "Cure", one month after their formation, becoming one of the fastest-rising indies bands to appear on the cover of a magazine.[2]
Rame (bassist of Vidoll) teasingly began referring to the band as "Mago" (Mago means "grandchildren" and was taken from Phantas-mago-ria). The name "Mago" is now used by fans as well.[citation needed]
Phantasmagoria played their first concerts in the United States on October 21 and 22nd, 2005 at Oni-con in Houston, Texas. On March 26th, the band played their first Japanese one-man.
On February 23rd, 2007, guitarist Iori and drummer Matoi left the band. The reason given for Iori's departure was that he did not feel comfortable being in a major band; Matoi stated in Japanese interviews that he left due to a foot injury, but in English interviews, KISAKI stated that he also did not feel comfortable being in a major band. On April 5th, KISAKI announced that he was retiring and Iori and Matoi had returned to the band, but the band would be "sealing." He followed up on the announcement on a live radio show on April 8th, where the band's first and last fan trip was revealed, as well as the final event tour and final oneman tour. KISAKI officially retired from the active visual kei scene on August 31, 2007 but continued to run his label and produce music.
On May 3rd 2008 Phantasmagoria performed live at Hide Memorial Summit.

Riku was / is (?) in a band called ｃｈａｒｉｏｔｓ. His new band features members of Pashya, the Pumpkin Head, and Jaguar, and has released several singles, 3 mini-albums, and a collections album. In February, all of the members left this band except for Riku. As of right now, the status of this project is unknown but Riku was chosen to be the vocalist of Kisaki's new band.

Jun had his solo project, called ａｔｔｉｃ, in which he sings and writes music. He now works with Iori in a new project, Spiv States.

Matoi is in a band called Jill Christ and their first single, "Chrism...Code46358," was released on April 18, 2008. This project hasn't released any material since then.


Phantasmagoria is releasing an album of rerecorded songs over the summer of 2008 and a photobook of their costumes. Also, a new single was revealed that would be sold at live performances, with a new song called "Vanish....".

They resumed activities (again) for only a limited of time by the end of December2009. In 2010, they released 2 singles, "Diamond Dust" and "Seeds of Brain" before officially disbanding the project. Kisaki announced at their last live that he started a new project, 凛 -the end of corruption world- which has Riku as their vocalist.

2) 
Phantasmagoria is a male/female experimental-electronic-indie-pop duo from Detroit, Michigan. Formed in 2010 by Christopher Jarvis and Lianna Vanicelli after the fallout of their previous band (The Flower That Ate New York) they quickly developed a strong local following. After their first digital release "Spirit EP" came out in January 2011 it garnered mostly positive reviews and gained the attention of Detroit-based record label Five Three Dial Tone Records, who are set to put out their first physical release in the form of a 7" single in early 2011. They embark on their first tour in March 2011 which will take place up and down the east coast alongside local indie rock band The Kodaks. 

Christopher Jarvis has been a part of bands in the past experimenting with the genres of post-hardcore/punk/indie/pop/rock as a guitar player, keyboardist, and vocalist. Most notably was the indie-pop The Flower That Ate New York (active 2005-2010). He also operates under the producer/dj pseudonym "Eugene Jarvy" for his electronic music (techno/dubstep/house) as part of the Detroit electronic music collective called DETROIT PRODUCE, with which Phantasmagoria is also associated.

Lianna Vanicelli was noticed by the band The Flower That Ate New York in 2007 for her vocal talents which won her national recognition in competition. She played guitar as well as vocals for that band until they went defunct in 2010 and from which Phantasmagoria was born. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Phantasmagoria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.