In the past four years Philthy Rich has really made a name for his self in the underground bay area music scene. Philthy Rich is one of the hardest working unsigned artist and has a great buzz going for his self. Philthy Rich has performed at numerous venues inside and outside of the bay area. Philthy Rich has also been on tour numerous times and in front of crowds ranging from 1000 to 30,000. Philthy Rich has done countless shows and has worked with many upcoming and well known artist in the bay area like Keak Da Sneak, San Quinn, Too $hort, E-40, The Delinquents, The Team, Mob Figaz, Dem Hood Starz, Bully's Wit Fully's, Yukmouth, Mistah F.A.B. and many more. Philthy Rich was giving his name as a youngster growing up on the blocks of Seminary in East Oakland by Dame Fame who is the ALLNDADOE RECORDS COO/VP and head of FMG . In 2007 Philthy Rich gathered up some local talent such as J Stalin, Beeda Weeda, Shady Nate, Eddi Projex, Mistah F.A.B, Lil Al Tha Gamer and Ray Ryda for a five city tour called TOWN BIZNESS BG's but was cut short due to drug charges for sales of cocaine. Now released from serving a jail sentence of one year in the county jail for drug sales he is ready to make his mark in the rap game. After being released in 2008 Philthy Rich has really made a name for his self in a very short term. In 2008 Philthy Rich released two independent mix tapes titled Streets On Lock and PhilthyFresh which also co stars Stevie Joe and a pre album with Dj Fresh titled My Block: Welcome To Sem City. Philthy Rich feels 2009 is his year and he will finally release his first official album titled Funk Or Die under Town Thizzness/Live Wire Records/SMC and the long awaited street album titled Nieghborhood Supastar under Live Wire Records/Hunid Racks/City Hall. Philthy Rich has been on endless t.v. shows, soundtracks, dvds, magazines, news papers, and plenty underground mix tapes and albums. Philthy Rich is still very new to all the spot lights but is to be a sure success. Philthy Rich feels that his hustle game will take him to the top and his street cred and swagger separates him from the rest and cant be compared. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Philthy+Rich">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.