Two artists have used this name:

1. A side project of Phil Western, a Skinny Puppy associate who is also a member of Download and Kone, among others.


2. PHILTH is a Florida Keys / Miami based four piece band. It was the chance meeting of a singer, Little John, and guitarist Scott Migone, that would make something more than just music was made. This meeting of the two would bring the dirt back to rock music! 

The Players are: 

Scott Migone- He has always been the behind the scenes driving force in the areas of studio recording and the song-writing discipline but his modesty and experience allow for others to be creative too. 

Dirty Myke- His influences ranging from Alice in Chains to the mighty power-house band Tesla, allows for a very diverse sense of sound. Dedication to the art, and stage presence, command his bass guitar to leaving nothing short of what Philth as a whole demands. Thick, meaty and best of all dirty! 

Little John- Voices, voices, with guitars and more voices. The two are truly great as individuals but together, Little john and Scott have written some kewl tunes together. A classic combination would be the only way to describe the working relationship of these two artists. "I understand the importance of simplicity and learned it from my own heroes like Kurt Cobain and Scott Weiland". 

Jamie Vila- This drummer, percussionist with a complimenting voice to back up Little Johns vocals is the body and heartbeat of the band. Jamie could tell by the vibe of the music being written, that a simple rock and roll style drum formula would be the only way to keep this music timeless as not to be able to label the music as "grunge", or "heavy metal". He says, this is rock and roll, so lets keep it simple and driven"! 

Who is Philth and what do they want? In their own words,we are the neighborhood band thats going to be looking back at you from the cover of a Rolling Stone magazine. 

contact : Little John phone .. 305-479-4603 email : madrockjohn@hotmail.com Philth Headquarters  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Philth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.