Phrygian Gates was founded in 2005 by guitarist and music producer Samuel Axelsson. At first, the band was seen by its members only as a side project of actual groups.

Between 2005 and 2006, Samuel A. starts working on new music material that he rehersed with its band in Örebro (Sweden). But for various problems inside the group, this material never reached music studio. Then Samuel A. decides to get to work with his brother Juan A. Jiménez, who is living in Spain; Samuel A. asks him to record the drums. Both of them already have played in bands for various years, but it was in the metal band “Of Dream and Drama”, that they’ve started to play together. Starting from there they always try to play together when possible.

Samuel A. lives currently in Örebro (Sweden), with his wife and son, where he works as a music-guitar teacher and photographer. He moved from Spain in 1999, where he majored in Music Science & History at Salamanca’s University. He has also studied photography and audio engineering among other things. His deep interest in music and photography has led him to study the musical-visual relationship, as two separated art forms that can coexist as an unique union for creating original forms of art. Samuel is a very versatile guitarist. He likes to work with clear ideas, while leaving plenty of space for creativity and improvisation of the band members. The distance which separates him from his natal Spain and his brother, was never an obstacle for this band.

Juan A. lives in Mérida (Spain). He works as a music & drum teacher. In 2005, he majored in Music Science & History at Salamanca’s University too. Beside, he has also studied drum and percussion with some of the best national and international drummers. Juan A. is a talented drummer and he writes articles about drumming technique as a freelance journalist for different music magazines and participates in several other music projects.

The main idea for the band, was make music that they could identify themselves with, mixing different styles that they have been influenced all along their musical careers. This ranges from instrumental to metal and progressive rock.

The digital edition of the first CD - “Black Lines” - of Phrygian Gates, will be out on October 24th, 2008, and will be released in stores worldwide. The hard copy edition of the audio CD will be released on December 16th. The album was recorded at the Rockgymnasiet studios in Örebro (Sweden), and it’s self-produced. Samuel A. is in charge of the production and mastering process. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Phrygian+Gates">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.