“Phyrexia are a huge shock. Mixing elements of Emperor, Death, Iced Earth and Rhapsody of Fire shouldn’t work, but instead, this strange mingling of styles (symphonic blackened power death, anyone?) is tremendously entertaining. They manage to unsettle – as black metal should – whilst remaining fun (essential to power metal) and making you feel like someone is punching you in the gut in the best traditions of death metal.” -Tom Dare, Thrashhits.com

Phyrexia are London’s premier self described Epic Extreme Metal band - a 6 piece sporting duel guitars, guttural vocals and a majestic keyboard sound.

Performing gigs since 2008, Phyrexia have shared the stage with many a prestigious band, including the likes of Bal Sagoth, Malefice, Xerath, Damnation Angels, Viatrophy, Abgott, Satur- nian and Primitive Graven Image, to name a few.

Eagerly looking beyond the immediate future, the band are planning how best to bring their unique blend of epic ex- treme metal to a wider audience and promote their new album through touring.

From their conception, support for the band has been over- whelming. Performances and records alike have received rave reviews, leading to radio airplay, live performances, interviews and advertisements.

“Offering death metal with interesting black metal leads, a symphonic keyboard sound and a youthful stage presence, the band are promising and worth keeping an eye on as they develop.”
-Elena Francis, SoundShock

Death on Red Wings, the highly anticipated and long overdue debut album from London’s self- proclaimed ‘Epic Extreme Metal’ band Phyrexia, is fi- nally here. Featuring ten original tracks, the album is scheduled for a late Summer of 2012 release. Previous EP releases have been met with critical acclaim:

“Can I just start by saying “Fucking Hell!!!” because that’s the initial reaction to ‘1914’. The power that comes through the speakers is brain melting...The vocals are aggressive and stunning and the drumming absolutley slays! Superb guitar work in different styles from shred to near acoustic, the timing changes in the music and the subtle tones of dark piano just add layer upon layer of depth.” - Stu Tovell, Stu’s Reviews

Phyrexia use: Ibanez and Fender Guitars, Yamaha Keyboards, Marshall and Roland Amps, Pearl Drums.

“The vision looks bright – the vision looks Phyrexia. I am looking forward to hearing more from this band... Phyrexia have pin pointed the epic qualities of black metal and stamped their mark on it and then some. It works! It’s catchy! It embeds extreme with sincere melodies and I have to say I am really enjoying listening.” - Pagan Tordengrav, Infernal Rock Radio <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Phyrexia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.