Pianos Become the Teeth are an American post-hardcore band from Baltimore, Maryland. They perform a style of music inspired by post-rock and early screamo acts. The group reissued their debut album Old Pride in 2010 through Topshelf Records.

Pianos Become The Teeth formed in late 2006 in Baltimore, Maryland. Their first release, the Saltwater EP, was released in 2008 through Doomed by Dawn Records. In early 2009 Pianos Become The Teeth released a split EP with Ezra Joyce. Their contributed track, "Creatures of Habit," was a darker song similar to the material that was recorded for their follow-up first full-length.

Pianos Become The Teeth released their debut album, Old Pride in 2009 through Blackjaw Records. They subsequently signed to Topshelf Recordings in October 2009, and reissued their debut album in January 2010 through digital media outlets and on CD. The Topshelf version of Old Pride saw a much wider release that was met with much acclaim. Andrew Kelham of Rock Sound gave the album a nine out of ten, and wrote that "With a why-just-write-a-song-when-you-can-write-an-epic attitude, the eight songs on their second record are distinguished, articulate and immersive as their juddering post-hardcore clashes with moments of Explosions in the Sky rivalling tenderness and Mogwai-esque grandeur." Writing for Alternative Press, Brian Shultz gave the album four out of five stars and said that the group has, "quietly refined their craft over the last few years into an incredibly cathartic and sporadically chilling mode. Their screamo peers--past or present--should be more than envious." Old Pride was released on vinyl in June 2010 as a joint release through Topshelf Records and Mayfly Records. In support of the album, Pianos Become The Teeth toured the US with Touché Amoré and Lemuria.

In October 2010, Pianos Become The Teeth released a split EP with The Saddest Landscape through Just Say No! Records.

In January 2011, the Pianos Become The Teeth had begun writing a new album, and described the new songs as being "darker and heavier" than previous material, and that they would not become "Old Pride part 2," alluding to new musical direction. Recording began on August 1, 2011 at Developing Nations Studio with producer Kevin Bernsten. Topshelf Records released the LP The Lack Long After on November 1, 2011, with a supporting tour with Touché Amoré and Seahaven following shortly after.

Pianos Become the Teeth signed with Epitaph Records in 2014 and will release its third studio album, Keep You, on October 28 of that year. The Will Yip-produced album is noted for its stylistic departure from earlier releases, featuring less a aggressive sound and no screamed vocals from Kyle Durfey. The band promoted the album with an online stream of "Repine" in August 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pianos+Become+the+Teeth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.