There are two bands called Pidgeon. 
1) Pidgeon is 5 piece band from San Francisco.
They have released two albums on the label Absolutely Kosher Records.
"From Gutter W/ Love" July 27, 2004
"Might As Well Go Eat Worms" September 23, 2008
Pidgeon is:
Val Iwamasa- guitar, voice
Micah Foley - guitar, voice, screaming
Alexi Alexaieff - bass, screaming
Troy Enrile - drums
Nick Garrett - guitar, screaming 

2) There is very little info available on Pidgeon. The listed personnel includes 3 musicians/vocalists and one poet. All songs were written by Jobriath Salisbury & poet Richard T. Marshall . A blonde lass named Cheri Gage is credited with lead vocals & autoharp. Bill Strong Smith plays drums & percussion. The legendary Jobriath is credited with keyboards, guitar & lead vocals. (This LP is probably the controversial solo artist's recording debut.) The self-titled Pidgeon album has a lot of musical variety including wild Psych guitar & harpsichord on "Milk & Honey" and "Irene". Vocal harmonies abound. Some tracks are more folky/moody /introspective, while others rock. Jobriath's vocals are very distinctive throughout.

jobriath.org:
In mid-1968, Jobriath, now age 22, quit the L.A. cast of HAIR to form the band Pidgeon. With lyricist Richard T. Marshall, he had just composed a batch of songs. Stan Farber, a noted session singer in the area, found them & agreed to produce. He got them signed to Decca and set up the band members (which included singer Cheri Gage and teenage drummer Bill Strong Smith) in a house for six months to rehearse. By December they were in studio, and finished in about a month. The LP was to be titled Pidgeon: First Flight From the Forest, but was retitled by Decca.
Days after finishing the first, the band set to work on a second LP. On January 21, they recorded "Tasting of the Caramel", "Pine Trees," and "Life at the First National." The following April 22, they recorded "Rubber Bricks" and "Prison Walls" These two songs were released on a 45".

Album credits:
Bill Strong Smith - Drums, Percussion, Vocal
Cheri Gage - Autoharp, Lead Vocal
Jobriath Salisbury - Keyboards, Guitar, Lead Vocal
Richard T. Marshall - Poetry
Published by Far-Fitz Music - BMI
Produced by Stan Farber for Farber for Farber-Fitzpatrick Productions
Recorded at American Recording, Studio City, Calif.
Engineers: Bill Cooper, Richard Polodor
All songs by Jobriath Salisbury, Richard T. Marshall
Photography by: Gene Brownell
Group Photography by: John LeProvost and Bill Gordon
Decca Records, A Division of MCA Inc., New York, N.Y., U.S.A.

Tracks:

01. Of The Time When I Was Young
02. Milk And Honey
03. When She Arrives
04. Dark Bird
05. Irene
06. The Wind Blows Cold
07. Penny's Magic Bell
08. The Main Line
09. Springtime Girl
10. The Dancer
11. House On A Hill Among Trees
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pidgeon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.