There are more than one artists named Pierce:
1. Electronic/house/techno artist from Germany
2. Christian rock band
3. An electronic producer from Canada
4. American power metal band

1.

1993 - the year to start his passion for electronic music. It has been 13 years of experience and permanent development from his roots like Relief, Cajual, Dancemania, or even Axis Records since then. Nowadays PIERCE is already an old stager in the music biz with the age of 30.

Besides his residency at cologne's most favourite club for high quality techno ELEKTROKUECHE, where he regularly spins the records with acts such as MARTINEZ, JUSSI-PEKKA, HEIKO MSO and many more, he's booked regularly through famous house clubs like Exhibition Bochum, The Garden Munich & Bang! Club Bremen or internationally at places like Dachkantine Zurich, Volksgarten Vienna or Batofar Paris.

Due to his weekly radioshow MEDICSTATION every saturday night at primetime 20-22h CET, which he started with his fellow WOLLION, a growing number of fans from germany, switzerland or the uk hail for the weekend warmup with regular guest djs like Jonathan Ulysses, Tocadisco, Moguai, Sharam Jey or Linus Loves, just to name a few.

Because of his open mind in music, PIERCE is equally booked at house AND techno events throughout europe, keeping the underground touch while beeing able to please a demanding crowd as well. Though, you can never be sure wether its minimal, electro, techno or house acapellas that he uses to push the crowd even further.

In 2005 he released ACID.CONDENSER - the first mix compilation on MOLECULAR FUNK GUERILLA, the official comingup label of FORCE INC. MUSIC WORKS where already artists like TONKA or IAN POOLEY once started their career. Containing tracks by artists like Thomas Schumacher, Rob Acid or Air Liquide, he once more stated his soft spot for the good old Roland Machine.

2006 was the year for reminescence of lost qualities. After a 10 years break and his last EP on POLIMORF Records in 1997, now it felt like the time to hit the international decks again. It's quite an impact he creates with about 15 releases and remixes in his first year of releasing again in 2007 with EPs for BluFin Records, Yellow Tail, BeatModul Records or Marc Romboy's new imprint eTools, as well as remixes for artists like John Acquaviva, Lützenkirchen, Andreas Henneberg, Turntablehoshis, Lissat & Voltaxx, Superlounge and many more. Yet artists like Jussi-Pekka, Robert Babicz, Joachim Spieth or Karri O. delivered remixes for him. With every single day in his studio, the list increases ... so be assured - there's more to come!

2.

Led by Doug Pierce, Pierce is a Christian rock/powerpop band whose lyrics focus on worship themes.

3.

Pierce is also the alias of Dominic Fabrig, a producer from Canada who is responsible for tracks such as, "Willing To Wait", "Miss Your Tape", "Something To Finish", and the classic house remix of Empire of the Sun's "Walking On A Dream". He is 23 years old.

http://www.pierceband.com/
http://www.myspace.com/dougpierce1
http://www.dougpierce.tv/
http://www.blastmymusic.com/pierce
http://www.myspace.com/ilikepierce <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pierce">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.