There are two known bands and a Hungarian singer under the name Pierrot.

1.A japanese rock / visual kei band formed in 1994 in Nagano, Japan. Pierrot enjoyed a successful indie career before debuting as a major band with Toshiba EMI in 1998. In 2000, Pierrot left Toshiba EMI and signed up with their current label, Universal Music Japan. Pierrot initially had a different line up in their indie days with KOHTA (Bass), キリト(Kirito) (Guitar), Luka (Drums), 潤 (Jun) (Guitar) and Hidelow (Vocals). However, shortly after recording 気狂いピエロ (Kikurui Piero), the band's first indie album, Luka left and TAKEO (ex-Superstar) replaced him on drums. A couple of months afterwards, an ultimatum from band leader キリト, who had a different vision of the band than Hidelow, delivered along the lines of "Either Hidelow goes or I do" saw the departure of Hidelow. アイジ (Aiji) (ex-ＫＡＬＥＮ) was also recruited around that time and キリト took over Hidelow's position as vocalist.

Pierrot was considered visual kei in their early days, though they had since became much more mainstream in look and sound. Pierrot is well known for キリト's thought provoking lyrics as well as twisted sound. Some of their songs have had tie-ins with commercials or animes - the most popular tie-ins being ハルカ… (Haruka...), which was used as the ED theme for the anime Kamikaze Kaito Jeanne and 薔薇色の世界 (Barairo no Sekai), which was used as the second OP theme for the anime GetBackers. Some of the band dabbled in solo work with キリト releasing his first solo single in June 2005, and TAKEO in a music unit called G-Brain, contributed a remix to the GHOST IN THE SHELL STAND ALONE COMPLEX -Prototype Sound Package CD soundtrack.

Pierrot officially disbanded in April of 2006 with a message from キリト stating that he felt it was his fault that the band could not continue, and that he had not been a strong enough leader. Their last single was HELLO, which was released after the band's break up on June 21st, 2006.

After the break up, キリト has continued to release music as a solo artist and has also formed a new band, Angelo, with KOHTA and TAKEO. アイジ and 潤 are pursuing their own projects as well. アイジ being in a band called LM.C (Lovely Mocochang) with ex-雅-miyavi- support guitarist Maya on vocals, and 潤 in a new band with Koji (ex-La'cryma Christi) and a vocalist 翔太 (Shouta) named ALvino.


2. A disbanded German rock band, which was mostly active in the 80s, and later regrouped as Hammerschmitt.

3. Pierrot - his real name: Marosi Z. Tamás - is a Hungarian singer, musician and business man. He was born on 3. September 1969. He founded his first band at the age of 17. He put on his special Pierrot-appearance and chose this stage-name then. From 1994 he is a producer as well and founded his own recording company "Private Moon Production".   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pierrot">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.