In November of 2004 ex Newage Burnouts’ members Adam Block (bass) and Tim Westergaard (drums) got together with Whoregasm’s guitar powerhouse Nick Major (guitar) with the aim of creating a rocking new band fusing together elements of metal, grind, crust punk and fat rock riffs.

By December music for ‘Video Shits’ and ‘Fallen Soldiers’ was written and the band began looking for a second guitarist to fatten up and consolidate the sound.

Multi-talented ex Breeding Retards drummer Dan Hart was the man for the job and was promptly on the mission for the twin axe battling with Nick.

A dynamic front man was all that was needed so in January of 2005 Ben ‘Grub’ McMorrine brought his diverse range of vocal techniques and mad-cap sense of humour to the line-up.

A bit of a funny story behind the name. A good mate of ours was offered a job at a piggery mating the pigs. Apparently the male pig has a corkscrew appendage similar to their tails which needs to be straightened in order to speed up the mating process.

This man is known as a ‘Pigsteerer’. Whether true or not we found this concept hilarious.

Intensive sessions went down in the rehearsal studio over the proceeding months and by April Pigsteerer had hit the live scene in Adelaide cranking out a string of successful shows at top city venues and playing along side local big name bands such as Los Diablos and also Melbourne grind metal masters Bloodduster.

The song writing and recording process had continued to crank throughout this time and by November of 2005 the first 6 track Pigsteerer e.p. c.d. was mixed, mastered, pressed and ready for distribution.

It’s release marked the culmination of a full on year of rocking for Pigsteerer and was dubbed “Adelaide’s finest straddling the line between grind core and pure frenzy’’ by E.C. Productions Distribution label.

Pigsteerer has continued to play regularly throughout 2006 and are looking forward to thrashing their asses off in 2007 with new material to record and add to the live sets, playing as many different venues in as many different places as possible and most importantly rocking out and having fun with the punters.


Cheers for taking the time to check out the Pigsteerer bio.
Rock on and Bang you’re fukin head.
Pigsteerer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pigsteerer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.