Piotr Wiese is an acclaimed Polish composer, pianist and producer, who focuses on modern-classical,  instrumental piano music, his main influences being Joep Beving, Otto Totland and Daigo Hanada. 

He started playing the piano at the tender age of 8, and composed his first piano miniatures as a teenager. Ever fascinated with classical music, Piotr started a long journey of studying the higher language of music, through his beloved keyboarded instrument at the Institute Of Music and the Academy Of Music in Poland. Later on, he moved to Berlin and began to work on his debut album 'Questioning Infinity' – a set of short piano concertos released independently in 2014. His ever growing passion for music soon led him to the UK, where he obtained a Master's Degree in Composition (2017) from the University of Bristol, and soon after his repatriation in Poland the following year, Piotr, released his first-ever full length solo piano album  'Continuum' independently, with which he managed to accumulate more than 2 million streams on Spotify. Always looking for new projects to indulge his passion with, he went on to compose for film and theatre, while at the same time, like a genuine musical powerhouse, he found the time to release a series of successful piano singles and EPs. In 2019 Piotr had put together a soundtrack for a documentary called “Irma Ineichen – Memories of Paris”, that screened on the most prolific Swiss film festival, 55. Solothurner Filmtage, while the exact same year musical 'Pinocchio' , featuring his music written for symphony orchestra, had its premiere in many theatres throughout Poland. The year 2020 started with the release of The Hygge Collections Vol. 1 - a collaboration of notable neoclassical composers. Original style and the quality of his piano music enabled him to sign record deals with renowned modern-classical labels: [labe]Double J Music (UK), Sonder House (USA), Blue Spiral Records (IT), Ambient Fruits (NL). With an ever-growing fan base on Spotify, his music has been streamed millions of times. His new EP ’Selfless’ - a contemplative piano-led collection is coming in May 2020. Two singles promoting the release have already been featured on New Music Friday Poland official Spotify playlist.  His latest one - We Won't Waltz Together was added to probably the biggest piano playlist in the world - Peaceful Piano by Spotify. 

Currently, Piotr is setting up his new home-studio in a small village amongst picturesque terrains of forests, lakes, and particularly beautiful landscapes of northern Poland, from where he is sending out musical invitations, for us to travel with him deep inside ourselves in a pleasant contemplative journey. For Piotr, music enables us to touch the untouchable, think the unthinkable and feel the unfeelable and his mission is to make us experience this <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Piotr+Wiese">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.