Born in Warsaw to Polish-Hungarian parents, Piotr Anderszewski is regarded as one of today's most exciting and compelling pianists. As a regular visitor to major concert venues around the world, he has appeared in recent seasons with the Berlin Philharmonic, the Boston, Chicago and London Symphony Orchestras, the NHK Symphony Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Orchestra of the Royal Concertgebouw. 

Anderszewski has also developed a special reputation for playing and directing, collaborating with the Sinfonia Varsovia, Mahler Chamber Orchestra and the soloists of the Berlin Philharmonic among others. Most notable has been his partnership with the Scottish Chamber Orchestra, with which he has performed extensively and recorded a disc featuring Mozart's G major and D minor concertos. 

Anderszewski has made a number of award-winning recordings since becoming an exclusive artist with Virgin Classics in 2000. His first recording on the Virgin label was Beethoven's Diabelli Variations, a significant event in his musical life which was documented by the celebrated film maker Bruno Monsaingeon (creator of documentaries on Sviatoslav Richter and Glenn Gould). Anderszewski's discography also includes a previous disc of Mozart concertos with the Sinfonia Varsovia and a Grammy-nominated CD of Bach's Partitas 1, 3 and 6. His special relationship with the music of his compatriot Szymanowski is captured in a highly-praised recording of the composer's solo piano works, which received the Classic FM Gramophone Award in 2006 for best instrumental disc. 

Recognised for the intensity and originality of his interpretations, Piotr Anderszewski has been singled out for several high profile awards. In April 2002 he received the prestigious Gilmore award, given every four years to a pianist of exceptional talent. He has also been a recipient of the Szymanowski Prize (1999) and the Royal Philharmonic Society's Best Instrumentalist award in 2001. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Piotr+Anderszewski">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.