Piper Davis sings electro-blues. With vocal influences ranging from Tim Armstrong to Betty Davis, and self-made, micro-sampled beats that have drawn comparisons to MIA and Santigold, she's been serving up her indie-tipped dance tunes to audiences in Canada and Europe since 2008.

Brought up on Bob Dylan and classical records, Piper gravitated to vocal improvisation at DJ shows in her teens and eventually earned a degree in music composition from the Simon Fraser University School for Contemporary Arts, launching her solo career post-graduation.

Over the last three years, Piper has opened for Dragonette and LA ROUX at Vancouver's Commodore Ballroom, and Gift Of Gab from Blackalicious at Calgary’s Hifi Club. She's been invited to showcase at such venerable music festivals as NXNE (2009), Canadian Music Week (2010), Sled Island (2010) and Olio Festival (2009 and 2010). She has been featured in numerous publications and online blogs including the New York Post, Exclaim Magazine, The Georgia Straight, and Ion Magazine.

The only Canadian accepted to attend the 2008 Red Bull Music Academy in Barcelona, Piper collaborated with Russell Delgado, engineer for Erykah Badu and The Roots, and Latin Grammy winner Natalia Lafourcade. All three of the tracks she produced, wrote and/or performed on at the Red Bull Music Academy were selected to be featured on the Red Bull Various Assets Compilation. Piper's song "Academics" was also featured on the Mercedes Benz Mix Tape 19 in Germany, Japan and the U.S. and was nominated for the Mercedes Benz "Best Of" Mixtape this year.

2011 is already shaping up to be the biggest year yet for Piper Davis. Her self-titled EP will be released on February 8 on YYZ Records, with an accompanying video for lead single "Academics" by multimedia artist Kara Love Eaton. Live appearances in support of the Piper Davis EP will begin in March at Canadian Music Week in Toronto, opening for fellow Red Bull Music Academy alumnus Onra. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Piper+Davis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.