In 97 it hit me full in the face that not only was One Life Crew really never going to happen, but that remaining with the band was a career ending decision. That in mind while recording "American Justice" for Too Damn Hype Records, I took a band name Dwid had coined but never used, XPROHIBITION 2000X and started a new band. Since we were doing songs to be included on OLC's "American Justice", the members were myself aka Mr. X, Mean Steve aka Lord X and Tony Pines aka Fat X. All 3 of us busted vox and background vox, Tony doing the drumming and I laid out all the guitar and bass work. 

The first ever live show was 2/14/98 at the Phantasy, we played "Sell Out", "Wiggario", Bats and Gats", and "Texas is the Reason Emo Kids Suck". The first live up featured the 3 of us on vocals, Frank "Hollywood" 3 Gun Novinec on bass and Blaze Tishko aka "Dos Equis" on Guitar and on drums was Danny "XLAX" Zink. 

Danny and I ended up having so much fun, the two of us would spend hours at his house jamming and coming up with the craziest fastest catchiest shit, really with no goal in mind, more just to entertain ourselves. It got to the point where I wanted more out of PB2K. We got Jerald aka "Malcom X" and Mike the Mick aka "XCON". When it came time for us to start recording 7"s and Demos we had added on vox Bryan Scorch aka "Triple X" and Kevin Blake aka "X Factor". Somewhere in this mix was another singer named Mikey, I have no idea what his nickname was. We released a split 7" with Empire Falls on Use Your Head Records titled "One Nation Under Hate" which somehow featured 10 songs in 6 and a half minutes on our side. 

We hit up a local studio to do the first full length and by the time "Everyones a Winner" was finished, Malcom X was history and was replaced by Charlie Taylor aka X 13. From my best guestimates between Use Your Head Records and I Scream Records, Everyones a Winner sold about 8,500 units, which for an anti PC hardcore record by a bunch of nobodys is pretty damn decent. 

The Summer of 1999 brought more change to the Pitboss camp, XCON and XLAX were gone. We got a kid from Jeffersonville named Derrick aka CK1 on Guitar and his buddy Travis aka Jesus X on drums. That line up lasted long enough to record the EP "The Booby Crew". Since the cover had my ex girlfriends tits on the front, no pressing plant would touch it and that delayed the release. John at Samson Records ended up picking up the release we changed it to "The Booty Crew" and with that had a whole other line up. 

The touring line up for The Booty Crew featured me on Vox, Ben WO on Vox, Carey on bass ( I forget his nickname), Dustin aka Sellout Killer on guitar and Jesus X on drums. This lineup was fortunate enough to do a mini tour of Europe. In the summer of 2000, after a failed US Tour planning fiasco and the inability to put together the subsequent European Tour, I lost my mind and said fuck it and up and moved to Cali. 

The remaining members did their best to put something together and Im sure were tired of people asking where the fuck I was and blah blah blah and finally after a while stopped. 

In 2002 I got together again with Bryan Scorch to release Pitboss 2000 "All the Hits" which had Everyones a Winner, some added tracks and some live material, things were all good till everytime I did a Google search the cd was only found in fucking faggot ass White Power Distros, so please please whatever you do, do not support this release. 

In 2004 after the longest hiatus and myself fucking sick of kids asking me about the "other lineup" and Pitboss 2000 questions got together w/ Dannario aka XCaliber, Joe aka XHusband and XDildoX and AL X to put together the four song "Foodster" Demo. We recorded it on a four track in Dildos basement and Dannario spent a sleepless night adding all the touches to it. It was raw as fuck, belligerent, pissed and off the wall, basically it was perfect for Pitboss 2000. 

2006 Opens yet another PB2K Chapter, I got a bug up my ass to write good hardcore and sing about ill shit...stay tuned. 

With all the members coming and going and doing their part, Im left to make the decision on who the official PB2K members in the Hall of Fame are. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pitboss+2000">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.