Pitchblack is the first band in the world playing “ Extra Sour Hard Candy” genre. 
The genre was developed by band while creating the second album “All Black” and it contains difficult and complicated acid music, which becomes understandable and slowly integrates into brains and inserts into genome after being listened for 3-4 times.
This music also has old school sound and echoes of 80’s, genres crossovers, new tendencies of guitar athleticism, lowered tunings, pitches and multiple samples all being created by band on their private studio in Moscow as well as by band ideological leader and founder Katrin Child.
Visual effects such as blood, black soot, black lipstick, joint of gothic and glam metal, also strongly influenced the style formation. However, none of the mentioned above is specific as well as other metal attributes. It is expressed in denial of life impermanence, self-hate and depressive lines of considering about life, death, suicide. “Hard Candy” does not call to act radically and it is not direct forms, colours. All lyrics, stories and sense of the songs are allegories, sarcasm and pressing atmosphere exacerbation of hate, scorn, impossibility of self-expression in destructive post-soviet Russian conditions. All of them belong to one person who lives in ghetto beggars but has access to social networks and other acceptable means of bringing her creative mind to the perception of a large number of people and not only Russian.
New music style must have been born long ago in Russia, and so it happened. It is created by people gripped by impossibility of creativity. Speaking seriously today in Russia only more or less wealthy people can make music, record albums and promote them. People who has money on guitar lessons at least, and what about all other stuff?... It there a chance that “Generation Z” will achieve the level of “gathering stadiums, arenas” and become legend? I will repeat my words: Generation Z from post-soviet space and dimension. To do that without plagiarizing anything that was before the way “let me play like Dime, everyone will like that”, “let’s make video like Arch Enemy, it will work”. 
To make something completely new, alive, crazy fuckin’ experiments, overrun, overflow, supernatural music. I am going to try to prove the world that HARD CANDY METAL and PITCHBLACK can do the impossible and change this world, get the ball rolling, break the deadlock, raise to a new level, create and improve the things done before. Whether we do it or not nobody knows, we’ll wait and see, anyway if you don’t try you’ll never know so it’s better die right away than not do it! 
PITCHBLACK - Explosive extreme metal-band from Moscow, first band in the world playing HARD CANDY METAL (you can find more about this style by checking the community page). Our band has already released one full album, 1 EP, 4 video clips and we have also played many concerts in many cities in Russia including its own festival - BLACK UNIVERSE. We have done it in three years of our existence. PITCHBLACK is ready to kick asses with fusion of melodic metal and metalcore by joining and mixing together Melodic Death Metal, Metalcore, Progressive, Death Metal under crazy speedy rapid shredding guitar solo, badass drums and breakdowns, suffocative bass and fierce, furious vocal from Purgatory, from Underworld, from Hell. Deep dark blue-black innate darkness, chilling Space and slitted veins of subconscious – all in one! It will blow off your brain, melt the heart and soul.
STAY METAL STAY BRUTAL!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pitchblack">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.