There are eight bands (or artists) with the name Pitfall. The first is from Newcastle, Australia, the second is from Germany (2), the third one is from the Netherlands (3),  the fourth is from Marlborough, MA, USA (4)  , the fifth is also from the Netherlands (5) the seventh is from Japan (7), and the eighth is a bloodhounds member. 

For Indonesian post-metal/post-hardcore band visit here: Pitfall Conspiracy

PITFALL(1) Newcastle's hardcore band with a strong 80's youth crew influence. They formed in 1994 and disbanded, playing their last show at the Sydney Hardcore Superbowl in 1997.

Pitfall (2) was founded in 2002 in Heinsberg/Germany. Originally, the band started as a quartet and played local clubs and venues to gain popularity in their home regions. The same year, Pitfall's first and self-titled debut album was released. The band joined the family of the local indie-label "Unpopular Disclose Records". By this, they got the opportunity to contribute a song for the label's first 
compilation. In 2003 the band was widened by a second guitarrist. One year later, the first studio-ep "Our Love For Oppression" was released. After that, Pitfall started to play bigger shows with bands like Boysetsfire, Maroon or Killswitch Engage.
In early 2006, Pitfall went to the studios again to record their first studio album "The Great Sacrifice".
After the recordings, bassist quit the band and they found themselves a new bassist.

PITFALL (3) is a GROOVEMETAL band from Heerhugowaard (Noord-Holland). The band started out in 1996. Playing live as a trio took a turn as new guitarist Rob Bosdijk came to enforce the Pittribe. Rob spilling out more of his melodic ideas took the band to another level. With three man on vocals and lots of duo guitar licks Pitfall has grown into a mature band. The most brutal "in your face" metal now finds it's way into this world! The real Pitfall is reborn and is screamin' it's head off! 

Pitfall (4) is a hardcore band from Marlborough, Massachusetts, USA. Their music is fast and brutal, reminiscent of old school hardcore. Their lyrics are full of aggression and frustration. In 2008, they released their first EP "Another Day at the Zoo" on Neutral Territory Records. Covers Sheer Terror.

Pitfall (5) was a punk band also from the Netherlands. From close to Utrecht, Wijk bij Duurstede. They had a single called 'Separation' (1981) en later on a cassette.

Pitfall (6) was a shoegaze metal band from Bandung, Indonesia..formed in 1997..they released a debut album called "a whispering rose and betrayal kiss " 

Pitfall (7) is a black metal one man project from Japan. Tsuyoshi Watanabe, Japanese who was born and grew up in the United States and now resides in Tokyo Japan. When he was only 13, he made some music and recorded it as demo and taped them with floppy disk. He sang and played all of the recorded instruments at a studio. The demo was in the attic of somewhere later found by ardent music lover and published CDs in 2019 in 14 countries, which has got a moderate success around the world.
http://rockstakk.shop-pro.jp/?pid=142427833 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pitfall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.