Placid Silence is a five-membered band from Augsburg, Germany. The current band members are Astrid Grenz (Vocals), Stefan Schwierz (Guitar), Michael Besler (Guitar), Manuel Giuliani (Bass Guitar), and Bernhard Kechele (Drums).

Style and Influences
The band itself describes its style as "melodic power rock", but their music ranges from metal to rock and also includes an occasional ballad. The musical influences from the band members include heavy metal bands like Iron Maiden or Blind Guardian, melodic death metal like In Flames, metalcore bands like Killswitch Engage, or medieval rock bands like Schandmaul and Subway to Sally, which is also reflected in the diverse style of Placid Silence.

History
Placid Silence was formed 2000 in Augsburg and since then the band performed over 50 concerts, mostly in the area of Augsburg and Munich. 2001 the band recorded their first four-track EP "Candles Burning Down" at the recording studio Brickhouse Studio Laub. During the recording sessions the first singer of the band Sabrina Kraus left Placid Silence and the remaining members had to finish the work on the album without her. Two weeks later they found the new singer Kerstin Rupp. Kerstin Rupp was replaced by Erika Viertl for two gigs, because she had to take a baby break. When preparing for their first full length album, Kerstin had to quit the band for private reasons. So Placid Silence decided to team up with Sabrina Kraus once more. In June 2004 Placid Silence presented their first full length album "Autmn Skies", which contains 11 tracks and was also recorded at Brickhouse Studio Laub. Unfortunately, Sabrina left the band again in the summer after finishing "Autumn Skies", leaving Placid Silence without a singer for the rest of 2004. In the beginning of 2005, the band found the new singer Astrid Grenz. In 2007, Peter Greif, former bass player and also a founding member of Placid Silence, decided to leave the band to take care of his family and job. He was replaced by Manuel Giuliani. In 2010, Placid Silence released their third album "Tides Are Turning". The record contains 13 songs and was again recorded at Brickhouse Studio Laub. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/placid+silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.