1. Technical Death Metal band from Newcastle, England

Plague Rider was conceived in 2011 with the intentions to resurrect the sound early technical death metal pioneers of the late 80’s and early 90’s, capturing the lost energy of their heroes in Death and Morbid Angel among others. 

Emerging from an underground scene ripe with extreme metal bands, Plague Rider emerged from the grim darkness of their conception onto the equal grim darkness of the underground metal scene in early 2012. Solidifying their reputation as "tighter than the nail in the coffin live" and stabilising their lineup over the next year, 2013 saw the release of their debut, self titled album to widespread online and critical acclaim, which earned them a place as heavyweights of the North-East English metal scene.


Plague Rider have had the privilege of slaying with bands such as:
Chapel of Disease, Dawn of Chaos, DOOM, Sodomizer, Bonesaw, Repuked, Scordatura and Winds of Genocide.


The art for the debut album was handled by Turkka Rantanen,who should need no introduction to any Death Metal fan.

"Tighter than a nail in a coffin live" - Kat "shevil" Gillham (Winds of Genoicde) 

Some quotes from reviews of the debut album "Plague Rider":

"Like the aforementioned acts(Atheist, Death , Pestilence) PLAGUE RIDER evinces a keen understanding of this particular style, churning out songs that display an effective balance between technicality and heft, while never forgoing a catchy groove and melody here and there" 7.5/10 - http://www.metal-observer.com/ 

"This is unforgiving music. Plague Rider have no limitations, and are in constant experimental motion. This music sounds fresh, it sounds original. It’s compelling and pulsing with energy." 9.5/10 - Katie Metcalfe - http://wyrdwordsandeffigies.wordpress.com/

"Theirs a growing of underground metal acts here in the North East, among the best sit Durham's Plague Rider, who have gratefully spewed out their lurid debut for the undead masses. Soaking in vomit, blood, chyme (and countless other putrid excretions), their self titled debut walks the same blackened path as early Pestilence. With a penchant for wildly diverting the listener with some technical guitar work in the vein of Obscura or even Atheist" - 7/10 Bruce Turnbull (Power play magazine)

https://plaguerider.bandcamp.com/
https://www.facebook.com/PlagueRiderUK

Contact : plaguerider@hotmail.co.uk

Members:
Vocals -  James Watts
Dan Alderson - Guitars
Jake Biebly - Guitars
Lee Anderson - Bass
Matthew Henderson - Drums   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Plague+Rider">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.