1.) Plagues from Japan are Toshiaki Gotoh (drums), Tatsuya Okamoto (bass), and  Motoaki Fukanuma (vocals, guitar, and keyboard).

2.) Plagues (USBM)

Plagues is a black metal band from Massachusetts, US, formed in 2011. They have released two demos since then: "Darkness Reigns" and "Winter Tomb" through Infernal Kommando Records. Their music is available for free from their bandcamp.

3.) Plagues (US)
"What hits me on this EP is how they achieve the heavy sound without using the typical 'blast the drums as hard as you can' and 'growling vocals of a madman' approach. Upon listening to the vocals there is a sound of anger and roars of despair, but you get the feeling that there's restraint on the part of the vocalist which gives the vocals an intense vibe, prime example would be halfway into 'Tongues Elaborately Dressed' when he lets roar a ridiculous scream.

The CD has six tracks, one of which teeters over the three minute mark. The EP provides a solid small collection of songs but the intent is dramatic, they've delivered on what they wanted most and that was their entrance into the arena, and what an entrance. One gripe is that I feel the EP is missing an epic track which seems easily plausible for the band to achieve with their talent - hopefully this may be more realistic on their next release.

Packaging: Comes in digipack format with the lyrics on the left inlet of the case and the band's 'thanks' section comes around the rim of the CD inlay. Artwork is nicely done and a little different, the casing overall is clean and well done, not generic at all as is typical of Debello Recordings artists.

If you like crushing riff after riff and something a little different then this is a must have for you. "

- Cap Punishment

Recommended If You Like:
Old Man Gloom, All things crushing and decimating, etc.

 www.myspace.com/weareplagues  

4) Plagues (UK)

"Plagues are a 5 piece Metalcore/Hardcore band from Manchester, UK. Using a mixture of heavy riffs, crushing beat downs, pounding bass, uplifting lead lines, passionate screaming vocals and soaring melodic vocals to create there own unique style of Melodic Metalcore/Hardcore."

Their debut EP is available to download free from their Myspace (http://www.myspace.com/plaguesofficial)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Plagues">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.