There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Plankton is an instrumental 5-piece band out of Stockholm, Sweden. The band was formed in 1998 by guitar players Christian and Emil, who at the time were playing in various bands around the Stockholm area. They´d known each other for a few years and were both heavily influenced by the music of the sixties and seventies. They usually got together over a cup of tea and listened to the music of The Jimi Hendrix Experience, The Beatles, Mahogany Rush, Electric Sun, Jan Johansson, Mountain, Deep Purple, Jojje Wadenius, Jeff Beck, Led Zeppelin, Cream and other bands and artists from that era.

On a rainy day they decided to put a band together and some time later they hooked up with Lars, Sebastian and Tomas and started jammin´ and recording. These recordings were sent to Joe Romagnola at Grooveyard Records by Janne Stark who had recieved a copy from Sören Dahlgren, a close friend to the band. Joe Romagnola liked what he heard and Plankton was signed to the Grooveyard label.

The music of Plankton is based on a variety of influences that the five members grew up with. You´ll find blends of everything from The Jimi Hendrix Experience to traditional Swedish folk music, from The Beatles to The Rutles, from Deep Purple to Swedish fairy-tales, from The Shadows to Monty Python´s Flying Circus and of course the legendary Elephantman...

Releases:
2002 - Plankton
2004 - Humble Colossus
2006 - 3
2006 - Rare Tracks 1998-2005 (Compilation)
2009 - Ocean Tales
2013 - Meanwhile, Downstairs

2) Plankton was an acid trance project by Frank T. Wallace.

3) Plankton is an Indie-Pop Band from Winterthur, Switzerland. They stand for groovy shows on the big stages as well as for melodic performances at the corner in the streets. www.plankton.ch
Members:
Vocals: Reto Karli (reto@plankton.ch)
Guitar: Philipp Kräutli (philipp@plankton.ch)
Keys: Stefan Bosshart (helge@plankton.ch)
Bass: Vincent Hofmann (vincent@plankton.ch)
Drums: Dominik Deuber (dominik@plankton.ch)

Their next album is said to release in September 2008.


4) PLANKTON is a acustic pop/ indie project from Bavaria, Germany. It is named  like young front vocalist Julia Plank. Catchy Songs great melodies and smart lyrics in four languages with pure instrumentation make them unic an trendsetters to their generation. International as they are, they know what they're heading for, while knowing exactly from where they come. First album coming out January 2009, www.plankton.online.ms

5) Plankton is an Australian outfit with releases on Feral Media

6) Plankto nis Tommi Liikka, also known as Dead-O. Under the Plankton moniker he has released numerous underground hiphop mixtapes.

7) Plankton Alias of French Techno DJ and Producer Anouar Hemissi. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Plankton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.