There are multiple artists named Plastik:

1) Plastik is a trancey German band. 

2) Plastik are a three piece from London, comprising of Gareth Moss (vocals, guitar, keyboards), Andy Natt (bass, backing vocals) & Paul Cox (drums, backing vocals). They are now a 4 piece called God Love You For A Liar.

3) Plastik is an alternative rock band from Vaala, Finalnd. They are remembered by songs like "Vivid Dream", "Mornings" or "Warp Overtaking Me". Plastik included Markus R.(guitar), Esa K. (bass & vocals), Erkka K. (guitar) and Lari K.(drums). Seamlessly fluctuating between pop symphonies and dirty calloused punk riffs, this North London three-piece play unforgettable live shows with a rare verve and panache. Lyrically, Plastik tackle obsession, death, love, alienation and violence – all draped against an opulent backdrop of the humdrum and the prosaic, sprinkled with a frenzied debonair strut.

4) Plastik was an Indonesian grunge, rock n roll and blues group music which is popular in the 1990s, Plastik was become iconic rock n roll music of Indonesia in that era. The Pearl Jam wave of the early 1990s may have crested with PLASTIK in Indonesia. Combining grunge with long Neil Young-like jams, the band created a sound that both touched the soul and made you want to thrust a lighter into the air. Sadly, the band broke up at the turn of the millennium. Left in their wake are three albums and a collection of greatest hits. "The Best" is a solid sampling of the band's choice material and includes a chunky, dance remix of their hit single Seperti by Adam from the electronic goth band Kubik. Members of the group have since moved on with new projects but their former incarnation is still missed in rock circles. The band's legacy remains intact and its demise, while sad, proves that it's better to burn out than it is to fade away. Plastik was conformed by Ipang(vocal), Didit(guitar), Iman(drum), Aray(guitar) & Alex(bass).

5) Plastik is an Italian electropop band founded in Varese, Italy in 2001. Previously known as Mind Drop. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Plastik">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.