PROFILE

PLASMAJET were known for their melodic death metal sound and their ever-changing line-up. Led by guitarist Junichi Nakamura, the band managed to achieve a small success in the metal scene and also got the opportunity to perform in Europe.

BIOGRAPHY

PLASMAJET was created in 2002 by guitarist/keyboardist Junichi, together with Yohei on bass and Ta on vocals. At that time PLASMAJET composed music with a hardcore sound and a lot of digital elements.

In September 2003, they released their first CD called Jet Stream Attack. At the end of the same year, due to the departure of the band's drummer, their music started to lean more towards heavy metal. At the end of 2004, a new vocalist, HELL, joined PLASMAJET and Ta’s position changed from vocalist to DJ.

In April 2005, the CD Under It All was released. By June it was completely sold out. In December they released a collaboration CD together with Grimm, which was titled Touzaitaikou Katakana Namenna! GP.

Their melodic death metal sound was slowly developing, which was the direction that Junichi originally had in mind for the band. However, vocalist HELL then left the band and was replaced by Wild Turkey (ex. Crimson Head). In August 2006, they performed overseas for the first time in Sweden, which was an enormous step forward for the band.

In June 2007, they released a new CD, THIS MOMENT, which was followed by another short tour in Europe. In August, the band changed vocalists again as Wild Turkey left and the French vocalist Guillaume took his place.

However, this wasn’t the last change in PLASMAJET’s line-up. By 2008, all of the members had left the band, except for Junichi Nakamura. For a while, a new vocalist and drummer joined him, but left the band after a few months, and Junichi announced on his MySpace blog that he was tired of PLASMAJET and needed a change. Thus, PLASMAJET disbanded on September 29th.

Most of the band’s former members have stayed active in the music scene. Vocalist Wild Turkey is currently playing bass for the visual kei band DEATHGAZE, under the name Kosuke. Drummer Shizuki returned to the indie visual kei scene as he joined the band Art Cube. The Frenchman Guillaume occasionally works together with other Japanese bands, such as Ra:IN.

Junichi Nakamura got his much needed change and emigrated to Barcelona, Spain where he started the metal band YOUR EMBASSY.

Read more: http://www.jame-world.com/br/database-artists-biography-567-plasmajet.html#ixzz0oCP0LSvG


Discographie :
Mini Albums :

    * 00-06-2007 : This moment
    * 00-12-2005 : Touzaitaikou Katakana Namenna! GP

Singles :

    * 00-04-2005 : Under It All
    * 00-09-2003 : Jet Stream Attack
    * 00-00-0000 : New wave
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/plasmajet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.