Main website: http://jinn.delusion.ru

Plastilinovy JiNN was created in 1997(Kazakhstan). The founder and Ideological inspirer was Alexander Zaplagin, (guitar, vocals, music, and text). The idea was supported by Dmitry Pavly (drums)(now he writes about psychology-here). Plastilinovy JiNN's first album was "Gorod Masterov" ("City of masters").  Because of its popularity, Plastilinovy JiNN was invited to participate in a rock show on Republican radio.

 In 1998, Anzura (vocals) and Valentine Shargorodsky (bass guitar) joined the group. At this time, Plastilinovy JiNN released their next album "Dihanie Oseni"("Autumn Breath") In April, 1998 Plastilinovy JiNN had their first solo concert in a hall before an audience of 1,500.  It was excellent show and they received excellent response.  Many Republican newspapers wrote about the group, and they participated in several radio and TV interviews.

In 1998-1999, Plastilinovy JiNN played in many small halls and clubs. Gradually, the structure changed.

 In 2000, Plastilinovy JiNN members were Anzura (vocals, back up vocals), Alexander Zaplagin (vocals, guitar), Sergey Shkutko (bass guitar), George Golaev(rhythm guitar), and Alexander Zavgorodny (drums).  Plastilinovy JiNN released their next album, "Russkaya ruletka"("Russian Roulette") at this time. In the summer of 2000, Plastilinovy JiNN had a big solo concert and a new video, "Cancan" .

In 2002, Anzura, in conjuction with Plastilinovy JiNN, had a solo project (Disco), which was a success. There were 2 videos from this project which were broadcast on republican channels and satellite TV.

In December 2004, Plastilinovy JiNN have finished record of new album titled "We are". Some songs of an album " We are " sounded on air of various rock-radio stations of the Europe, USA and Russia. Plastilinovy JiNN has given some interviews for various rock-radio stations and metalzines. 

In May 2005 Plastilinovy JiNN have begun work in studio " Magic " for a new music material .
In the end of November, 2006 work is completed and a new album has received the name "Mirage". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Plastilinovy+JINN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.