There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Platinum were a Birmingham based band that formed in 2000 with founding members Paul Tandy on lead guitar, Ben Gaughran on keyboard, Luke Houghton on rhythm guitar and Daniel Sankarsingh on Drums. After auditioning vocalists they decided Paul and Ben should share the role of lead vocals and soon after they recruited Daniel's sister and Ben's cousin, Ellena Sankarsingh to take the role of vocalist and percussionist. After auditioning bassists, Daniel got his best friend, Ben Cross to learn bass so he could then play in the band.
As they were too young to play in many venues (their youngest member being only 10 years of age and oldest, just 14) they played in whatever venues they could, developing original material as well as playing covers.
As it came to the time of their first gig, the band were yet unnamed and so during the band practice the night before the gig they attempted to produce band names. In the practice studio where they were situated, Daniel spotted a Bon Jovi poster that had the title "Mr. Platinum" on it and so suggested the name Platinum, intended to be their name for just the upcoming gig, but it stuck.
After a couple of live albums, the band won a competition to record with legendary Midlands producer, Bob Lamb and recorded their first demo. Soon after, they recorded another live demo at The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in Chelmsley Wood, Birmingham.
Not long after losing in the semi-final of a battle of the bands competition, Paul decided to leave the band to concentrate on his newly found band, Clockworks. This was a big blow to the band, but they soon started rebuilding and finding their feet. Despite amazing development in musicianship within the band, they grew apart and eventually split up in 2003.
Paul is currently the vocalist and guitarist of Octane OK and Ben and Dan are now members of The Mannequin Republic.

2) There exists a Funk Jazz act of the same name.

3) There is also a Barbershop quartet that goes by the name of Platinum. They were International Barbershop champions in 2000.

4) Platinum is a trash metal band formed in 2008 in Kicevo, Macedonia. The band members are Didi ( lead guitar and vocals ), Lumi ( rhythm guitar ), Blendi ( bass guitar ) and Migjen ( drums ). They have released one song to date.

5) Platinum was a hair metal band from Newark NJ (The booklet of "Iceman" states Bloomfield NJ as address). The band was founded in 1987 and split up in 1990 after the release of the album "Iceman".
The 1990 lineup:
* Vincent James (voc)
* Don Versailles (dr, key)
* Dean Affreat (g)
* Mike Micheals (bg)
* Vic le Car(g).
There were two further releases on cassette "Here to fight" (1989) and "Platinum" (1990).
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Platinum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.