Playya 1000 is responsible for putting Tulsa, Oklahoma, on the hip-hop map, dropping heat for the last 18 years. 

As a member of the local underground group DC Boys, Playya began recording tracks at a faster pace than the rest of the group, resulting in over 30 solo songs and the launch of a solo career. 

The first Playya 1000 release, ‘Reality’, was a hit record in the streets despite little radio support. The street buzz from ‘Reality’ paved the way for nationwide distribution and his second release, ‘Blame it On Society?’, which sold roughly 20,000 copies and was featured in The Source Magazine. Fans outside of Oklahoma began to take notice of the California/Midwest hybrid sound that would make Playya 1000 internationally known.

Riding the success of ‘Blame it on Society’, the Dynamic duo released ‘Mo Drama’ in 1994, considered by many fans to be an underground classic. The album featured the summer anthem ‘Sunday Afternoon’ and sold 30,000 units. ‘Sunday Afternoon’ has been a fixture on Tulsa radio stations since its release and has been featured on numerous Japanese mixtapes. 

After working with other artists such as Deco D, Ghetto Kaos, Big Bur-na and 5-0 Hustlas, Playya released his fourth solo record, ‘Foe Da Mill Ticket’. While considered his best release, Playya gained custody of his four children and was forced into an early retirement. The album did not receive the proper promotion and distribution it deserved but will be available for sale soon. 

Finally, after a nine year break from the game, Playya 1000 and the Deeksta are back to release ‘20/20 Vizzion’, a combination of the classic Playya 1000 G Funk mixed with a new school Dirty South vibe. 

“The album represents the natural process of life, the older you get, the clearer you see the game of life,” Playya says. “This is one of the most important rap CD's to ever be released, because it is so street relevant , but it accomplishes this without all the drama. 20/20 Vizzion will give you the reality of the streets, because it gives you the real truth, that for every action there is a reaction, be it good or bad the choice is yours. Playya 1000 keeps it realer that real. He goes beyond 100! He keeps it 1000!!!” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Playya+1000">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.