There are six bands with the name "Playground":

1) Playground is a cult Post-Punk band from Herne Bay, Kent (UK) that started as an idea in 1985 by both Richard Johnson and Andy P. (who together were also respectively editing/publishing and writing the popular Grim Humour 'zine). Rehearsals intially comprised them and their friends Dylan Hollinsbee, Harvey 'Havoc' Francis and a couple of others improvising a kind of industrial-tainted noise-rock around a drum machine. As well as guitars, the band would use backing tapes and a keyboard sometimes. During the course of a year, however, the sound developed from being ramshackle and sludge-like to something more powerful, helped no less by the arrival of Paul Dudeney on drums and Paul 'Fuzz' Wright on bass (themselves replacing 'Havoc' and Dylan...who was asked to leave the band for being too good a musician). Still drawing from industrial music and both post-punk (such as Wire, The Fall, The Cure, ATV - whose 'Splitting In Two' they covered initially) and its sprawling into the then extremely vibrant scene centred around NYC and Blast First Records, Playground's sound developed strongly before their first release in 1987.

Musically based around primal drum rhythms, guitar noise and shouted vocals, the band comprised initially of Richo Johnson (vocals), Andy Pearson (guitar), Paul Wright (bass) and Paul Dudeney (drums). With this line-up they released several demo and live tapes, as well as two 7"s ("Seeking The Truth" and "Conception Pay Off") and a mini-LP ("Sleeping Dogs"). In 1989 Richo and the two Pauls left left to form Splintered, which ventured off into more experimental and psychedelic territory. Andy carried on the Playground name (often referred to as Playground Mk II) in a slightly more Industrial vein with Patrick Murphy (bass) and a drum machine, releasing a CD album ("Resilience").


2) There used to be a Finnish band named "Playground" that sadly quit in the late nineties. They released a demo tape near 2000. Their lead singer Marko "Mark" Saaresto is now the lead singer of Poets of the Fall. Playground had little commercial success but it is loved by thousands of dedicated fans of Marko's unique vocals and the music that in some parts lives on in POTF.

3) Playground is a French rock duo (Firouz Farman and Dino Trifunovic) that is best known for the disco-rock hit they released in 2003, called 1994.

4) In the summer of 2001, they gathered Playground, a Turkish band, in may 2002 they won the roxy music days. They play their own tunes and covers.

5)Playground is a poprock band from Thailand.

6) Playground was a punk band from Davis, CA that released two albums in the mid 1990's. No Angel was released on Omnibus Records and the Six Days to Sunday EP on Pop Art Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Playground">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.