Playa Fly (born Ibn Young on September 2, 1977) is a rapper from Memphis, Tennessee's South Parkway. Fly was, at one time, an associate of the Three 6 Mafia (then known as Lil' Fly), but he stopped collaborating in 1995 due to monetary disputes and philosophical differences after recording one album under the group's guidance. Pursuing a solo career as Playa Fly, he released one independent album before signing a three album contract with Super Sigg Records. He immediately gained notoriety from the song Triple Bitch Mafia, which lashed out against his former group.

Ibn (at the age of 13) was already known in his neighborhood for being one of the youngest dope dealers on the block, after being giving three years to selling rocks, he finally gave it up to try his hand in rap. Ibn not only viewed rap as a less hazardous occupation, but as a way of self expression & communicating his thoughts. Under the title Lil' Fly, Ibn began his career at the age of 16, testing the waters with Don’t Never Test His Pimpin[1] as a start. He eventually became affiliated with DJ Paul & Juicy J of the Triple 6 Mafia & under the wing of the up & coming producers, Slangin' Rocks was produced. Known for his hook, beat, & Fly's dope game tales (which he wrote while he was still a dope dealer), Slangin' Rocks was an instance success. He was featured on Gangsta Blac's underground hit album, Breakin Da Law, & the Three 6 Mafia's first main stream album, Mystic Stylez. He even had his first album release on their label (which was at that time, Prophet Entertainment), Out Da Darkness Of Da Kut in 1994. After leaving the group a year later, Fly put out his diss album, Triple Bitch Mafia, then changed his title to Playa Fly & was featured on Tommy Wright III's On The Run before signing with Super Sigg Records.

In 1996, Playa Fly released his first album with Super Sigg, Fly Shit. The album had songs such as Nappy Hair & Gold Teeth, Da Show, "Crownin' Me", "Flizy Comin' (Triple Bitch Mafia pt.2)" and "Work To Do". It included other artists such as Gangsta Blac, Bill Chill, Criminal Manne, Icy K, D-A-V, Tay-Dog and Playa Posse. This album was also where Fly began his association with producer Blackout.

In 1998, Movin' On was released. Movin On had such tracks as "Situation", "Start Runnin", "Nobody", "Funk-N-Bonk" and "Write Sum Bump". It also featured Gangsta Blac, Bill Chill, Minnie Mae Mafia, and Cool B. Movin' On is generally considered Fly's greatest album. Unfortunately, Bill Chill, Playa Fly's father died shortly before this album's completion.

Just Gettin' It On, a re-release of his underground solo CD (with a bonus track), was released by Diamond in March of 1999. Da Game Owe Me was released in November of the same year, the last album to be released by Super Sigg Records, as Van Siggers was incarcerated and his three album contract expired. Just Gettin' It On had songs like "Gettin' It On", "Just Awaken Shaken", "Triple Bitch Mafia" and "Fuck A Wanna Be". Just Gettin' It On included the Minnie Mae Mafia, Terror, Lil' Yo, Gangsta Blac and the late Bill Chill. Just Gettin' It On was much darker and more violent that Fly's other albums; he spoke about killing, murder and homicide to the remaining members of Three 6. Also, the bonus track, "Fuck A Wanna Be", had a video made to it (under the title "Just A Wanna Be") and is Playa Fly's only music video [2].

Da Game Owe Me is, along with Movin' On, considered Playa Fly's best album. It had such songs as "Ghetto Eyes", "Talkin' Cash", "Damn What Another Say", "Breakin' Da Law", "Get'Em", "Feel Me", "Send For Me" and "N God We Trust". Da Game Owe Me featured Gangsta Blac, Thaistik, Blackout and Terror.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Playa+Fly">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.