Jordan Terrell Carter (born September 13, 1996), popularly known as Playboi Carti, is an American rapper from Atlanta, Georgia. His eponymous debut mixtape was released on April 14, 2017. He originally went by the moniker Sir Cartier (stylized as $ir Cartier) when he embarked on his music career in 2011.

He originally started rapping as Sir Cartier, releasing a mixtape titled THC: THE HIGH CHRONICAL$ on November 5, 2011, that has since been deleted from the Internet. He followed up with Young Misfit on November 12, 2012. He changed his artist name to Playboi Carti in May 2013. As Playboi Carti, he came into prominence in 2015 with his song Broke Boi. Initially a part of the Atlanta-based Awful Records label, he also performed at the fashion events such as Yeezy Season 5, VFiles, and Raf Simons events, with artists such as Lil Uzi Vert and A$AP Rocky. In 2016, he was featured on A$AP Mob's debut studio album, Cozy Tapes: Vol. 1 Friends -, on the tracks London Town and Telephone Calls, which the latter was released as the second single from the album.

Carti's eponymous debut mixtape, Playboi Carti, which features guest appearances from Lil Uzi Vert, A$AP Rocky, and Leven Kali, was released on April 14, 2017. The self-titled release gained attention from various music publications, including XXL, Pitchfork, Spin, HotNewHipHop, and PopMatters. XXL noted the track Magnolia as a standout cut, whereas Pitchfork critic Briana Younger thought that the release "finds a cloudy and economical mood and stays there, but it's Carti's magnetic confidence that turns just enough into plenty." The mixtape sold 28,051 units in its opening week.

In accompaniment with the mixtape's release, Carti embarked on a tour, which featured him as an opening act for Gucci Mane and Dreezy.

For the end of 2017, Carti was featured on A$AP Mob's Cozy Tapes Vol. 2: Too Cozy, A$AP Ferg's Still Striving, and NAV's Perfect Timing. Carti was meanwhile working on his debut album, Die Lit, which would be released on May 11, 2018.

Die Lit was an album that released mixed reviews, but fans of Carti enjoyed the album. Die Lit includes notable tracks such as "Shoota", "Foreign", "Choppa Won't Miss", "Mileage", and "Poke it Out." This album included features from artists such as Lil Uzi Vert, Nicki Minaj, Chief Keef, Young Thug, Travis Scott, Skepta, and Bryson Tiller.

Since the release of Die Lit, Playboi Carti has embarked on his own tour, while featuring on songs such as "Uh Uh" on Chief Keef's Mansion Musick and "Get Dripped" on Lil Yachty's Nuthin' 2 Prove.

However, soon after the release of Die Lit and his tour, Carti was seen discussing a new album: Whole Lotta Red. Over the course of the next few years, "Whole Lotta Red" would get leaked, or played by Carti himself at select shows. On November 23, 2020, Carti announced that the album had been submitted to his label, along with posting several blurry photos. He would later announce several collaborations, with artists such as Kanye West and Future. DJ Akademiks would later tweet that the album would release on Christmas day, and was executively produced by Kanye West.

Fan reception was polarizing at the start, but the album met critical positive reception. The album would later grow on Carti fans and music enjoyers alike and began receiving high praise. It has since been solidified as the greatest album of all time. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Playboi+Carti">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.