"It all began in 1986 when we were born. We got fucked up and started Plector 20 years later." -Erik Engbo


The Random Years

It all started in high school during the year of 2005. Erik went to the same music class as Wilhelm. While practising for a school musical, they got bored and decided to create music together. The first band was called Laceratio featuring Erik on guitar, Wilhelm on drums, Erik's brother Jonas on bass and Kristoffer on vocals.

Songs were recorded but most time was spent on partying and fooling around and less on practising. Musical differences and personal issues that arose led to the split-up of Laceratio. Now Erik and Wilhelm stood alone without members of glory. They got depressed and started drinking a lot of 2.8's (Swedish Folk Beer, weaker than the Swedish Strong Beer), resolving in an unhealthy lifestyle.

After months of misery they began looking for a new singer and bass player. Unable to find a male singer we got in touch with Antonia (Banderas); a female growler whom they knew from school. A random bass player named Adrian also came along. The new band Doom Skull lasted for about 3-4 months. Erik and Wilhelm said: "Wow, this is fucked up." and fired Adrian for lack of ambition to his instrument. Erik got in touch with his long time friend and former bandmate Björn (Prozac, The Vengeance, Semitopical, Rafaf Regit) and convinced him to become their bass player. Then Antonia turned random and quit without reason soon after Björns involvement. The rest of the band said: "Now that's really fucked up."

They realized that most vocalists are complicated beings and difficult to deal with. Erik decided to get fucked up himself and start to sing. With kickass flannel shirts and attitude, some demos were recorded. They were released in 2007 on the MySpace community under the new bandname Plector.

www.plector.se <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Plector">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.