Plushgun is a project birthed in the cramped confines of Dan Ingala's overpriced and undersized "bedroom" in New York City. While writing a song on his acoustic guitar, Dan had an idea: "what if I added some synths to this?" And synths he added, and this song is known today as "Just Impolite." Dan incorporated the name Plushgun to this project, as in something soft, something killer. 

"Just Impolite" hit Myspace in February of 2007, and in just months, through word of mouth, the project spread from one fan to another, until it was heard by RagTag productions, producers of the popular "We Need Girlfriends" web-tv series who approached Dan about using his music in their show. Plushgun was then introduced to a new audience, and Plushgun's popularity grew exponentially. 

When people started to demand live shows, Dan was scared. It was just him and a computer, and computers tend to be terrible showmen. So he asked for help from past acquaintance, guitarist, and showman extraordinaire Taylor Armstrong to bring this project to the live stage. Plushgun then absorbed the talents of Matt Bogdanow, whose ability on the drums was unmatched.

Plushgun's songs are nostalgic, poppy, dance-able, and surprisingly deep. Whether they are about chasing dying romances ("Just Impolite"), high-school anxiety ("How We Roll") or angst-riddled anthem's for a lost generation ("Dancing in a Minefield,") Plushgun tackles these themes with unabashed catchyness in an electrolicious soundscape.


Plushgun is an indie rock/New Wave/Synth-Pop band founded by Dan Ingala located in Brooklyn, New York. The current lineup of the band is Ingala, Taylor Armstrong on guitar and Matt Bogdanow on drums. The band gained prominence when its music was featured in episodes of the web series We Need Girlfriends. After those videos, the band quickly gained an online following.
On May 15, 2008 Plushgun announced a record deal with Tommy Boy Entertainment to release the band's first and self titled vinyl EP, which was released on August 19, 2008.[3] In a positive review, Orlando Sentinel music critic Jim Abbott wrote that the lead song "Just Impolite" "manages to be breezy and atmospheric" and other tracks "boast plenty of shimmering keyboards, but enough melody to sing along."
Their first album, Pins and Panzers, was released on February 17, 2009. Plushgun was the music label OurStage's first artist to get signed by a prominent record label after Ourstage flew the band out to South by Southwest music festival where Tommy Boy spotted Plushgun. "Just Impolite" was featured on the MTV show The City on December 29, 2008.[citation needed] "How We Roll" was featured on an episode of MTV's The Real World: Brooklyn. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Plushgun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.