PoisonGod is an example that heavy music can – and must – be taken seriously. In these nearly 3 years of existence the band released a promo CD (“Bullets”) which gained a very positive welcome from the specialized media in and outside Brazil; put out memorable shows, many with acclaimed artists in the national scene such as Chakal and Witchhammer, and now releases their first official album called “Daemoncracy”. 

“Daemoncracy” depicts an aggressive and technical Poisongod, with a modern concept practiced along with their vital roots in the 80’s “old school” scene, sounding unique in a moment when music seems to be lacking identity. 

PoisonGod is a band that worries about what’s been said. The lyrics on “Daemoncracy” depict a totalitarian and oppressor State that controls the population through mental alienation and the use of sheer force. Such environment is rooted on works such as “V for Vendetta” (Alan Moore and David Lloyd), “Brave New World” (Aldous Huxley) and “1984” (George Orwell). 

The graphic art is also one of the high points in “Daemoncracy”. Disturbing in its essence, the art was created by the Brazilian designer Gustavo Sazes and impresses the viewer by picturing the exact oppressing environment of which the lyrics talk about. 

After concluding the recording sessions for the album, the guitarist Carlos Alexandre Bittencourt joined the band, bringing more heaviness, technique and unity for the live shows and future compositions. 

“Daemoncracy” will be available for free download in the band’s official web site, what makes only sense if we think of the music market today and the record labels’ attitude towards music consumers in general and the abusive prices we have to put up with. That is one of PoisonGod’s biggest concerns and a motivation to take their music to as many people as possible.   
 

PoisonGod: 
Ricardo Sarcinelli – Vocals
Marlon Martinelli – Guitars
Carlos Alexandre – Guitars
Rodrigo Tesch – Bass
Guilherme Victor – Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PoisonGod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.