There are more than one artist with the name Polestar:

Jon Elliott started the Polestar project in 1999 -  a couple of demos were sent out to magazines and he appeared on the cover of Computer Music and then Future music Magazine in the UK.  After some interest from various record labels, Polestar was signed to Boltfish Recordings in 2004 – Camplex EP was released on Boltfish In 2005 and then his first long player, MetaKinetik was released on En:Peg in the same year.  In 2007 Polestar was signed to Netwerk records and released Connect EP -  2008 saw Polestar return to Boltfish with this second long player  Space Expanses. In 2010 Jon brought the Polestar Project to an End with his Final release End of an Era. 

Polestar makes electronica: Grew up listening to all kinds of music, but is most influenced by Kraftwerk, Electro, Wendy Carlos, Cabaret Voltaire and the BBC radiophonic workshop. Polestar is obsessed with complicated beats and beautiful sounds. The music can best be described as melodic electronica; fusing together complex beat patterns with warm and atmospheric synthesizer tones, along with all kinds of self made and self recorded sounds.




Polestar is the 2005 Illinois-based, power-pop solo project.
Although the band has not released an official album, Polestar has slowly churned out singles and demos, released on the band's Myspace. These singles include "Don't Say It's Over" (released December 16, 2006) "Smile" (released July 3, 2008) and "You're Such A Drag" (released January 1, 2009). On November 9, 2010, an EP was uploaded to Bandcamp titled "It's Not Funny - The EP!" featuring all of the singles, plus previously unreleased material. On December 21, 2010, a re-edited version of "Smile" was released and was featured on the AllThingsWeezer "Boardie Originals Compilation," released on December 24. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Polestar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.