Polemos is a progressive rock band from Brasil. The band name means "battle" in Greek (from a ancient greek god), but can refer to conflict of ideas such in 'polemics'.

Producer and keyboardist Leandro Dias founded the band in 2006 with the purpose of combining the power of rock n roll with the criticism of postmodern society through socially engaged lyrics. After working on some compositions, Dias called his extremely competent friend guitarrist João Pedro to carry out this project. 

After a while, social scientist and bassist Daniel Kosinski joined the band, followed by vocalists Gabriel Rudow (band Allundhra) and Oldemar Montenary (bands Profecia and Black Night). Soon Polemos would also count on the valuable musical skills of Luciana Garcia on vocals and Vicente Telles, who have been helping with additional keyboards, powerful solos and piano. After a few months with the band, José do Livramento left and the very skillful and experienced drummer Jahir Soares joined the studio sessions with his expertise. And that has been the formation since then.

In late 2006 Polemos released an independent promo called New Age of Revolutions, presenting the growing audience with a 22-minute track (splited in 4 parts). In the beginning of 2007, the band started working on their debut official EP called Market Monster, comprising two tracks – Market Monster (an 11-minute Floydian track) and Masters of War (an 11-minute progressive version of Bob Dylan´s Masters of War). When new oportunites arose, the EP idea was replaced by a full length album called New Age of Revolutions, with new versions of the title song and another 3 songs: Market Monsters, Masters of War and Changing Tides.

Influenced by many different artists and music styles, from traditional heavy metal to neofolk (including 70’s progressive rock, psychadelic rock, progressive metal, folkrock, psychadelic lounge, blues, jazz and others...) Polemos is hard to fit in a specific music style, but it is generally referred to as a progressive rock band.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Polemos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.