1) Serbian Thrash metal band
In 2008 they have released split album with another thrash metal band Deadly Mosh
Record has been released for Terror Blast Production
In 2009 they have recorded "Massive Overload" EP, and relased their first LP "Modern Warfare", for EBM Records.

2) Hardcore Punk band from Brooklyn, NY                                                                  

3) 60s / 70s psychedelic rock with jazz / funk influences.
Pollution put out three albums of soulful rock in the late 60s/early 70s.

Pollution was the brainchild of guitarist and songwriter James Quill Smith (aka Smitty), who appears to have organized the band and wrote a good deal of the songs they recorded. With most of the rest of their material written by other members of the group. On Pollution I, the band consisted of Dobie Gray (Percussion & Vocals), Ronnie Barron (Piano), Terry Furlong (Guitar), Jerry Jumonville (Saxophone), Dennis Kenmore (Percussion & Background Vocals), John Lambert (Bass & Vocals), Richard Lewis (Trumpet, Keyboards & Background Vocals), Christiaan Mostert (Flute, Keyboards, Saxophone & Background Vocals), James Quill Smith (Guitar, Harmonica & Vocals), Tata Vega (Percussion & Vocals), and Mike Reiley (Background Vocals). The lineup changed somewhat for Pollution II, most notably Dobie Gray was absent, but I don't have the full lineup for that one.

The band was managed by Max Baer Jr., son of the onetime World Heavyweight champion and the actor who played Jethro on the Beverly Hillbillies. This didn't appear to help their career as much as one might expect since, by all accounts, he was a lousy manager. He did better as a movie producer having put out some profitable gems like Macon County Line & Ode to Billie Joe.

James Quill Smith still performs and has a recent CD. Vocalists Dobie Gray (who appears on the 1st but not the 2nd of these) and Tata Vega (who appears on both) both went on to productive careers that continue to this day, and at least some of the other band members are still playing music as well. Pianist Ronnie Barron, in addition to his musical efforts, also went on to play the sleazy bartender in Steven Seagal's Above the Law.

Prophesy Records, which issued both of these albumes, was distributed by Atlantic that only had a few releases including a couple Kraut rock bands, a Clifton Chenier album & Quincy Jones' soundtrack for The Hot Rock--odd selection to say the least.

Interestingly, Pollution I won a Grammy for it's cover (done by Gene Brownell). It's a good cover but I like the one for Pollution II better. On the other hand, I prefer the music on the 1st one.

The music on both releases is soul-inspired rock with horns and occassional nods to country rock. I wouldn't call it psychedelic but it definitely draws on 60s era rock as well as period social concerns. The first album is is the funkiest of the two, in part because of the contribution of Dobie Gray, who has a much more soulful sound than the vocalists on the 2nd album.

Tracklist for Pollution I

    Travelin' High (With the Lord)
    This Feelin' Won't Last Long
    Ballad of a Well-Known Gun
    Do You Really Have a Heart
    Dry Dream
    Underdog
    River
    Lo and Behold
    Mother Earth 

& for Pollution II

    Hospitals
    Vegetable Soup
    Polly
    The End
    How Does It Feel
    Why
    Sharecropper's Blues
    Allen P. Ader
    Just the Way
    Foolhearted Woman

4) Dutch pop/rock quartet from Leiden. A demo has been recorded for the Ontzettend Leiden Bandcoaching project, an album is in the making.


5) Pollution is a HC Spanish band since 1999

6) Grung,Alternative Rock Band From Thailand

7) Czech drum'n'bass project active in the 90's

8) Brutal death metal/grind band from Minnesota, USA.

9) Alternative Metal Band from Frankfurt, Germany. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pollution">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.