Hailing from The Netherlands, metalband Polydrone is comprised of five motivated and talented musicians. Most with experience in former bands and all with a passion for music. Because of their skills and knowledge, the three initial members (Jeff, Niels and Wouter) recorded the first demo ‘Retrolution’ in the beginning of 2008 the DIY way (arranging everything, from the recordings to the photography, themselves). In a luxurious villa during a weekend of beer, gaming, beer, lack of sleep, beer, headaches and Dutch delicacies like ‘bitterballen’ their first demo became a fact. This demo, which was released in June 2008, was used to find the missing band members with the same ideas, devotion and geekness to complete Polydrone. 

These positions where soon filled by Tim, the perfect bassist with his broad musical experience and the same cheesy jokes as the rest of the band, and Alex, our much needed guitar hero II with his tight ass guitar playing and private jet building know-how. 

With the completion of the band in September 2008 the writing of new material gained a boost and resulted in a Radio performance in December 2008 (where Polydrone was compared with a mixed-grill dish because of the diversity in their songs) and their first gigs early 2009. After only two gigs it became clear that Polydrone was on the right track. Their tight and energetic live performances landed them a place in the finals of ‘Het geheim van Starsound’, a famous Dutch bandcompetition, as the only metalband, leaving 20 bands behind. Meanwhile ‘Retrolution’ received very positive reviews and 2009 promised to be a great year for Polydrone. 

Their repertoire grew with a whole bunch of new good songs and so it was time to take the next step. Four new songs were recorded in the “IJlandstudio’s” in Amsterdam. The new EP was titled ‘/2’ (pronounce: ‘Divide by two’) and was released in May 2009. This EP received only positive feedback in the press resulting in an interview in the well-read international e-zine Lords of Metal, who called Polydrone a very promising dutch metal band. 

After nearly 20 shows in the first year in big Dutch venues like Tivoli de Helling (twice) and Het Kasteel (twice) with bands in the likes of Blindsight, The Lucifer Principle, Murder Manifest, Massive Assault and Victimizer, Polydrone started 2010 with a blast when they played as the headliner in a crowded P60. After a first successful year and with shows on the agenda (including Het Patronaat and De Kade), Polydrone is well on their way to a great future. 

If Polydrone works their magic on stage, you know you have to go apeshit during their no-nonsense songs and performance. So keep an eye out for Polydrone!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Polydrone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.