Pom Pom Squad is an indie rock/grunge band from Brooklyn, New York. Begun in 2015 as a solo project of frontwoman Mia Berrin, Pom Pom Squad evolved into a four-piece band consisting of Berrin, bassist Mari Alé Figeman, drummer Shelby Keller, and guitarist Alex Mercuri.

Mia Berrin began Pom Pom Squad when she was eighteen years old. She soon moved to New York City where she performed solo under the name Pom Pom Squad and with an early iteration of the band, with whom she released the EP Hate It Here in 2017.

Berrin later met bassist Mari Alé Figeman and drummer Shelby Keller at club show and reformed the band. Guitar duties fluctuated between Ethan Sass and Alex Mercuri for a period until Mercuri became the permanent fourth member.Pom Pom Squad released their EP Ow in September 2019. The band built critical buzz during this time and were booked for multiple SXSW showcases as well as supporting tour dates with The Front Bottoms and Disq; these dates in 2020 were ultimately cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During 2020, Pom Pom Squad released a series of covers and the original single "Red with Love."

On March 2, 2021, it was announced that Pom Pom Squad had signed with the Berlin independent label City Slang. With the announcement, the band released the single "Lux." Their first full-length album Death of a Cheerleader was released on June 25, 2021.

In December 2021, the band released a cover of Nada Surf's hit "Popular," featuring their vocalist/guitarist Matthew Caws on backing vocals. The accompanying video replicated Nada Surf's 1996 video shot for shot, with Berrin playing each of the major characters. Pom Pom Squad's video was filmed at the same location as the original video.

Members

Pom Pom Squad is:
Mia Berrin - Vox, GTR (head cheerleader)
Mari Alé Figeman - Bass (witch)
Shelby Keller - Drums (camp counselor)
Alex Mercuri - Lead GTR (token male)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pom+Pom+Squad">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.