Poni Hoax is a five man army of «jeunes gens modernes», bookworm musicians and extremely talented composers. 

Their lead vocalist, Nicolas Ker tackles an ambitious and unique style that walks the thin line between a decadent Morrissey or an elegiac Jim Morrisson. This quizzical dandy with an exotic touch (born from French-Cambodian parents in Egypt). 

The symbiosis he shares with the band’s lead composer, Laurent Bardainne, can be equated with that formerly uniting Carl Barat and Pete Doherty with maturity on top.

Next to this ubiquitous duo, Arnaud Roulin (keyboard/bass), Nicolas Villebrin (guitar) and Vincent Taeger (drums), partners in crime and über-accomplished musicians who have co-oped with the gotha of French « variétés » (Feist, Romain Humeau, Dave! etc.). 

Together they fuel the fire of an irridescent musical flame laced with infectious, nearly fatal melodies.

Under the patronage of deus ex-machina come producer Joakim Bouaziz, one of Europe’s most talented remixers (for the likes of Air, Lionel Hampton, Tiga, Annie etc.) and the author of  the acclaimed « Fantômes » album (Versatile 2002) they take the lead in a most unanticipated way. Frontperson Ker sometimes recalls the greater accomplishments of  past geniuses such as Husymans and of course Morrison (again). In Paris, Poni have played a series of exclusive gigs in as prestigious venues as Agnes B’s Galérie du Point du Jour or the more dance inclined scenes of RESPECT and Nouveau Casino. 

One could qualify their style as rock n roll music but for its uncanny taste for wild hybridation from Itali Disco (Giorgio Moroder) to Noisy, Garage and Murder Ballads (à la Nick Cave). Such a wide array of taste is something quite unprecendented this side of the Atlantic and recalls the exceptional musical genius of the likes of Arcade Fire or Soni Youth.


http://www.ponihoax.com
http://www.myspace.com/ponihoax 
http://www.tigersushi.com 

 

DISCOGRAPHY

TSR017    BUDAPEST EP   OCTOBER 2005
TSRCD011    SHE’S ON THE RADIO   JANUARY 2006
TSRCD012    PONI HOAX              MARCH 2006
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Poni+Hoax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.