Porter Robinson is an American DJ, record producer, musician, and singer from Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Having started his career at the young age of 12, his passion for music being ignited by the media he consumed at the time, especially Dance Dance Revolution. Starting off making music online, he'd find his way to popularity and eventually hopping on to mainstream music by the end of 2010. After which he started gaining recognition from a lot of artists, notably signing on for the Spitfire EP on to Skrillex's OWSLA label and getting commissioned for remixes from Lady Gaga and Avicii.

After making the song, Language, he started to grow tired of the way dance music was back at the time. He started exploring songs in a way he wanted to, ignoring the rules that he used to follow previously set by the norms for EDM. He eventually released the album Worlds with a live show for it with his own vision for it. The album mostly was about the theme of escapism, with every song being a world of its own. Robinson said he wanted everyone to have their own meaning for the songs instead of him giving a definitive meaning or story to every single one of them.

He would later go on to collaborate with his best friend, Madeon, on a song called Shelter which would also later get an animated music video in collaboration with Crunchyroll and A-1 Studios.

For the next few years, he would release music under the alias of Virtual Self, an alias dedicated to making music that would invoke nostalgia reminiscent of the music from early 2000s video games, with live sets to compliment the same feeling. One of the songs under that alias, Ghost Voices, got nominated for the Grammy Award For Best Dance Recording in 2019.

He also hosted his first music festival in 2019, Second Sky (originally named Multiverse) that consisted of artists that he loved. Funds raised by the festival were donated to patients suffering from Burkitt Lymphoma in Malawi by The Robinson Malawi Fund.

In January 2020, Robinson would announce his sophomore album, Nurture. As opposed to Worlds, Nurture would be an album about enjoying the existence that we live in. It was a result of his struggle to create music that he felt satisfied with. The singles released all had vocals by Robinson himself in them, the lyrics talking about the different things he had struggled through the past few years, but also standing there as proof that he made it through all of it.

He also hosted Secret Sky, an online alternative to Second Sky, similar to it but held online through a live-stream and a digital auditorium.  

Throughout 2020 and early 2021, 5 singles for Nurture were put out, the song, "Musician" also got an animated music video for it.  In January 2021, after experiencing delays due to COVID-19 and due to Robinson wanting to perfect the album, it was announced the 14-song album would be released on April 23rd that year.  A deluxe edition in Japan with an extra song in collaboration with Wednesday Campanella was also announced later.

In April 2021, Robinson announced the second secret sky festival with an almost entirely different lineup from last time, taking place on the 24th, right after Nurture would be released. An unexpected final single was released on the 22nd with the album itself being released right after on the 23rd. Secret sky was live-streamed on the 24th along with a VR-based experience available for it. The stream ended with Robinson premiering the Nurture live show, ending with the announcement of another Second Sky festival being held in fall 2021. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Porter+Robinson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.