The history of band started somewhere in summer of 2002. Members Peťo, Šaňo and Roland had already been playing together for approximately a year in a band called Fajtront Ltd. This band released one album entitled Magická miazga which could be roughly translated as "The Magic Sap". Music of this particular band could be partially compared to Seattle rock and was appearing frequently in radios, TVs etc. After Fajront Ltd. had broken up the three remaining members Peťo, Šaňo a Roland stayed together and started to write songs again which, however, took a completely different direction. Later Gabo joined the band as a singer and it began to flourish once again. The new name PORTIKUS was officially announced on 03/07/2003 at Rock Pop festival and later a few gigs were played as well. Between the 2nd and 3rd of August they recorded their first 2-song promo in Exponent Studio. In fall 2005 the band was invited to be a part of smaller European tour organized by Latvian band NEGLECTED FIELDS. The concerts took place in Budapest, Varsaw, Vilnius and Riga. In January of 2005 the guys locked themselves in Czech Studio SHAARK where they recorded their first album "VIRTUAL WORLD". In November the title track scored on radio Rebeca and ended 2nd in charts. During the same year the band also played some concerts together with PALO CHODELKA and Liquid Boogie Roll band. What made a year 2006 a bit special was the "Tour Ides of March" with collaboration of Czech band ABSURD CONFLICT from Brno with whom they played a couple of gigs in Czech Republic as well as in Slovakia. After a long-time search for the next music element the band decided to fill up the missing spot with a second guitar player what added some heaviness to their music. By the end of 2007 Oliver Nagy became that second guitar player who was only 17 years old at the time. He found the style of the band really suitable for him and after some time he fit in with both playing and feeling. In July of 2007 the band had an honor to play at prestigious metal festival METAL CAMP in Tolmin in Slovenia. During May and September they were opening for a legendary Czech band Olympic. In November the band was interviewed by magazine Rock Planet. In May of 2008 they played with other Slovak and Hungarian legends such as Modus and Edda. In 2009 the band is preparing for their new upcoming album. Personal changes happened again in June of 2010. Roland Stehlo, one of the founding members has left the band due to family and business responsibilities. Despite this unpleasant incident, we continue to move on with the same spirit and enthusiasm to create the best material we possibly can. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Portikus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.