There are several bands named Poseidon:

1. A german prog/krautrock band formed in 1974 who released a single album in '75 called "Found My Way". The album got re-released by german label "Garden of Delights" with seven bonus tracks in 2001. The band was:
Horst Meinzer (vocals, bass, guitar), Tony Mahl (keyboards), Wilfried Sahm (guitar), Theo Metzler (guitar) and Rudi Metzler (drums).

2. English sludge/doom/post-metal metal band 

Bandcamp

3. A three piece hardcore band from Bremerton, WA.

4. A Grindcore/Dubstep band from South Shields, England.
It was formed in late 2008 out of the ashes of the Thrash Metal band Screw featuring the two guitarists Ryan "Rymond" Taylor, and Dean "DeanMachine" Costello. Former bassist screw bassist Jordan "Elf" Newton also joined but left not long after, he is currently filing a law suit over naming/royalty issues.
Skell Pirate is the bands mascott. They are reuniting in 2013 to pursue new mixes of Dubstep/Electro house/Grindcore.

5. Poseidon (Daniel Ovens & Paul Van Nimwegen) are a two piece Dubstep duo hailing from the bass capital of Australia.

6. POSEIDON, founded in 2011 in the land where, as the legend says, once was Tethys Sea - Stavropol city, Russia -- began at the end of 2011 releasing the single "Portals" followed by the single "Lotuses burning in the fire of Hell" in 2012, showcasing more of an Extreme Progressive Metal sound. In September 2013 Poseidon released the EP "III", which has more Post-Metal and Atmospheric influences, with a lot of clean male vocals. Today, the distinctive features of Poseidon's music are the use of orchestration for visual imagery and more "Cinematic Post Metal", where Avant-garde and Post Metal collide creating an original wall of sound, reminding of the aggressive tunes of THE OCEAN and the theatrical touch of VED BUENS ENDE.

7. Poseidon is a heavy metal band from São Paulo founded in 1992. It released 4 studio albums, a live album, 5 demos and 2 singles. Currently the band is a power trio formed by Marco Alexandre (guitar, vocals and keyboards), Belmilson Santos (bass) and Marcelo Soto (drums). They released the album At Dream's Door in 2018, based on the work of Neil Gaiman, Sandman. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Poseidon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.