POSTMORTEM TWITCH: The idea of Postmortem Twitch began in late 2003 by the founders of the band TYLER RAMSEY and RUSTY RILL. They were two aspiring musicians residing in the small town of Buhl Idaho. Throughout the process of writing music together for about a year, they came to the realization that in order to complete the band they were going to have to move to a bigger city. They both made the move, at separate times unfortunately, up to Boise in 2005. Their sole intention at this point was to find other musicians who were dedicated and shared the same passion for heavy music. Still early 2005, they did manage to find an aspiring vocalist NATHAN BERNER and a second guitar player CODY SACKETT. Practicing as a four-piece was however short-lived as CODY SACKETT had to become a father and didn't have time to dedicate to the band. The band continued as a three-piece. With some songs finally established, the band played a few shows until eventually coming across another guitar player. JUSTIN SERIO joined the band in 2006. With the element of a second guitar being figured back into the music, the band took a break to re-write and revamp their songs. Now with songs that were heavier and faster, they had finally established their sound. Postmortem Twitch recognized themselves as melodic deathgrind. The drumming had elements of extreme bands such as Origin and Braindrill. The guitars would vary between hints of melodic, basic, and brutal death metal. The grind aspect came with the vocals being both brutal and full of toilet humor. The band continued as a four-piece playing numerous shows during 2006. Also in 2006 was the change up of vocals from NATHAN BERNER to NICK BROOKS. NICK BROOKS continued the brutal/silly aspect of the vocals to a new extreme. Almost a full band, Postmortem Twitch continued playing shows to try and establish a fan base. In 2007 the band auditioned TRAVIS TORKELSON and he was added as the official bass player. Now as a complete band, they continued to play shows up until the recording of their LP "Deeds Of Abhorrence". However, due to conflicts in interest and ideas, Postmortem Twitch disbanded during the recording of that album. By the end of 2008, the founders of the band split into two different bands. Postmortem Twitch members TYLER RAMSEY and JUSTIN SERIO formed End Of All Flesh. RUSTY RILL and NICK BROOKS began Cast Into Finality. TRAVIS TORKELSON started his own project Zyphied Variable. Although the idea of Postmortem Twitch has been around for approximately five years, they were only a complete band for one of those years. The 2008 LP "Deeds Of Abhorrence" is the only validation of their time together.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Postmortem+Twitch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.