There are 2) bands with the name Posthuman:

1)  Posthuman are cousins Richard Bevan and Joshu Doherty. Known mainly for multi-layered electronic music, with heavy emphasis on intricate drum programming. A signature to their sound is the extensive use of Roland 808 and 909 drum machines. Formed in 1999 in Manchester, England, they relocated to London in 2000. 

The duo are also known for their own imprint, Seed Records, and for hosting a series of events in an abandoned tube station in London between 2001 and 2005, at which they and their label mates played alongside guest artists including Aphex Twin, Plaid, Luke Vibert, and many more. 

Although the bulk of their releases fall within the IDM genre, Posthuman have been known to widely experiment, their 2002 self-titled EP combined hip hop and heavy metal with electronica, and their 2006 album The People's Republic was heavily influenced by post-rock. See www.posthumanmusic.com for more information. 

Bevan and Doherty also record under various other aliases, including Walter Becomes Wendy, Snapmouth, On / Off, and The House Husbands. Doherty is also a member of modern-classical meets electronica group Digitonal, and hardcore breaks outfit AGT Rave Cru


2)  Posthuman is a modern melodic death metal band from Groningen, the Netherlands.

At the end of 2007, in the North of the Netherlands, five men decided to become more than just another metal band. They decided to become Posthuman.
Within a few months, they assembled an innovative mix of power and melody by combining traditional metal instruments with synthesizer sounds. These haunting tunes backed by ruthless force guide the listener into a world beyond the visible, beyond the obvious.

Listening to Posthuman reminds one of bands like Killswitch Engage, Sonic Syndicate, Scar Symmetry and Soilwork. Blending power- and death metal with sounds from the future into modern melodic death metal, the only classification anyone could give this fresh sound is: Posthuman.

Fall 2008, they came out of the shadow of obscurity with their first aptly titled demo
'Into The Void'. Right now, they are focussing on live shows and they will climb onstage to enslave all with futuristic melodies, thrashing riffs, grooving rhythms, furious speed and too much emotion to handle.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Posthuman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.