Potmos Hetoimos is a progressive doom/sludge artist from Baltimore, Maryland, who has independently released eleven albums to date. Their music is generally heavy and slow-paced and incorporates elements of post-metal, black metal, jazz, noise, stoner, funk, and drone. 

The first four Potmos Hetoimos albums were completely improvised at the time of recording, thus giving them a loose and creative feel that stands apart from later releases. "The Millstone" and "Dance With Divinity" are large-scale concept albums, while "Suffering the Storm" has no guitar, driven entirely by bass. 

"Kingdoms" and "The Greater Gospel" saw a greater influence of artists like Cult of Luna and Rosetta, as Potmos Hetoimos shifted toward progressive post-metal. Songs from these albums tend to serve better as standalone pieces than on earlier albums, with standouts including "Thrones", "Matriarch", "Sector 7" and "The Crumbling Dam". 

Potmos Hetoimos then drastically shifted gears with the release of "Agatha", a pure funeral doom album inspired by Monolithe, Esoteric, and Ahab. Originally a standalone concept album, the universe of "Agatha" was expanded with the prequel "Evelyn" and the connecting conclusion "Maribel", with each album ramping up the psychedelic and orchestral elements. "Maribel" features violin, flute, and clarinet as primary instruments. Potmos Hetoimos also began to utilize guest appearances more during this era, collaborating with Mike Armine of Rosetta, Chris Grigg of Woe, and James Dorton of Black Crown Initiate among others. 

While working on a funeral doom trilogy, Potmos Hetoimos had not forsaken their sludge and post-metal roots, so there was an enormous amount of non-doom material waiting to be recorded after "Maribel". Always fond of excess, Potmos Hetoimos elected to release all of that and more on the triple album "The Paragon Trisagion". Clocking in at three hours and 17 minutes, this release covered post-metal ("Light Wells", "Synthetic Eclipse"), progressive stoner metal ("Queen of the Fire", "Residence Altar"), and more straightforward prog metal ("Heliamartia", "Shadetree") as well as unusual diversions ("Blue Agave Prism", "Nostalgia Nausea") before the grand finale, "Wayward Stars" – a 55-minute prog epic that would make Arjen Lucassen and Neal Morse proud. Guests on "The Paragon Trisagion" included Persefone's Carlos Lozano, Crib45's Teemu Mantynen, First Reign's Sean Lang, and members of the Baltimore Rock Opera Society. 

For the next album, "Vox Medusae", Potmos Hetoimos expanded their ambitious progressive sludge sound to incorporate elements of blackened hardcore as well as jazz and funk, making use of saxophone, piano, and slap bass throughout the album. The album was released on Not Music records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Potmos+Hetoimos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.