Power Glove are an Australian electronic music and synthwave duo from Melbourne, Victoria, named after the Nintendo Power Glove. 

Power Glove was formed in Melbourne as the electronic music, synthwave duo (under pseudonyms) of Michael Biehn and Michael Dudikoff. In reality, the duo consists of brothers Jarome and Joel Harmsworth. The Harmsworths chose the name "Power Glove" based on a self-described obsession with Nintendo's 1989 Powerglove commercials.

The duo's music gained widespread attention with the track "Hunters" featured in the 2011 Canadian independent film Hobo with a Shotgun and the track "Vengeance" was used in the 2012 film The ABCs of Death. Their first extended play, the four-track EP 1 (a.k.a. So Bad), was released in January, 2012. Tracks by the group have appeared in various artists' compilation albums.

The duo provided the soundtrack to Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon (April 2013), which is a 1980s-influenced retro-futuristic video game. Michael Langley of CraveOnline website described that Dean Evans of Ubisoft contacted the group and asked if they would create the soundtrack to the game. The group notes that the direction for their work on the game's soundtrack was based on notably succinct instructions: "Okay guys, three words, Purple Lazer Beams". The soundtrack met with critical acclaim.

Since releasing their second EP, EPII in 2015 the duo has scored the Blood Dragon themed iteration of the Trials video game series, Trials of the Blood Dragon which was released in June, 2016 by Ubisoft.

On May 17th of 2019, the duo released their third album, entitled "Playback". The album was self-released on digital platforms, with a vinyl print being distributed by Electronic Purification Records.

The duo also featured in the 2019 documentary film The Rise of the Synths which explored the origins and growth of the Synthwave genre, appearing alongside various other composers from the scene, including John Carpenter who also starred in and narrated the film.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Power+Glove">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.