Members:
Mark Meyers - vocals, guitar. Koen Van den Camp - keyboards, Jurgen Leclercq - bass, Rudy Trouvé - guitar, Dirk De Hooghe - drums.

Mark Meyers was an early member of dEUS, but perhaps his most widely noted contributions to the Antwerp music scene was his tenure with the legendary Belgian Big Band Kiss My Jazz. Rudy Trouve is one of the most respected bandleaders and collaborators in Belgian musical history. His unique guitar sound defined the dEUS’ classic debut album ‘Worst Case Scenario’ and it’s ground breaking follow up ‘My Sister=My Clock’. The tension of hard touring and life on a major label led to Rudy leaving dEUS to concentrate on a host of bands including Kiss My Jazz, Gore Slut, Dead Man Ray and The Love Substitutes. He also formed his own label Heavenhotel and is an acclaimed artist whose work adorns many album covers including the cover for ‘On Your House’.

Pox formed in Antwerp in 2005 when Mark Meyers and Koen van de Camp decided they wanted to soup up the sound of their previous co-operation Plank. Jurgen Leclerq, an old acquaintance and guitarist in Wall of Sweat, was asked to join on bass. After a couple of rehearsals with drummer Bekin Ratta, Rudy Trouvé joined the band. With this line-up a first demo was recorded. A decision is made to simplify the drum sound en Craig Ward (dEUS/The Love Substitutes) takes to the drum seat. A single track is recorded for the Jezus Factory compilation album. The recording of a full cd is scheduled but the nomadic nature of Craig (who moves to another country) leaves Pox in need of a new drummer. Percussionist Dirk D'Hooge tries out and in no time masters the minimalistic drumming Craig had introduced. Craig returns to Antwerp briefly during the recording of ‘Down on your House’, adding a couple of overdubs and mainly joining Rudy on the producing/mixing side of things.
“Tom Waits with a crate of lozenges. It’s a truly great thing that whatever demons do or don’t drive Mr Meyers have allowed him to make what stands as his definitive statement.” Music4m
”It feels like sex with a delayed orgasm.” Riff Raff
Running Order
Waiting 'Till You're Gone
Stay
Maybe Someone
No More
Cry Now
Walk Around
Same Old Me
Broken
This Room
Leave Me Like a Friend
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PoX">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.