Final lineup (left to right):

Tim Schmidt - Drums
Danny Trapani - Guitar
Gary Barbera - Bass
Chris Billera - Guitar
Chris Carlisle - Vocals

Praeter Morte was formed in the summer of 2005 in Long Island, NY as a side project of Danny Trapani and Jay Rupp (of the NY death metal band Whorelord), Matt Kiedasch and Tim Schmidt (of the NY metal band Shrowd), and Gary Barbera (of the NY death metal band Without Remorse). The aim was to bring something new to the declining Long Island metal scene, to fuse together the brutality of the NY beatdown bands they grew up around with the melodic elegance and extremely dark overtones of Swedish death metal and black metal, and top it off with the intensity and attitude of old school NYC hardcore. The band quickly wrote material and after only a month of being in existence they had enough songs to play a live show. The response from the South Shore area was very enthusiastic, so they used the momentum to cut a 4-song demo (entitled "Vae Victas") and play shows all over Long Island.

Towards the end of 2006, the vocalist Jay Rupp left the band due to some differences in priority, so Praeter Morte in turn drafted Chris Carlisle, a longtime friend of Danny's and the former vocalist of Hostile Intent. In early 2007 the band jumped back into the scene and picked up right where they left off. They went on that year to play in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and upstate NY, the latter being a festival where they shared the stage with Macabre, An*l C*nt, Mucopus, Success Will Write Apocalypse Across the Sky, 25 ta Life, and Without Remorse, among many other bands. Unfortunately, the momentum was brought to a halt when the band temporarily disbanded in the fall of 2007.

Deciding that the legacy of Praeter Morte had too much potential to let stay dead, the band came back in early 2009, and they did so with a new weapon in their arsenal - the lead guitarwork of Chris Billera, replacing the old guitarist Matt Kiedasch. That spring they returned to the scene with a vengeance, attracting the attention of Last Resort Records. Together they went into Full Force Studios to cut their debut album, "Purifying the Oppressor". The full-length was released in September of 2009, and was well-received in the Long Island scene. 

Unfortunately, PM broke up again in early 2010 before they were able to tour to support the release. It was succeeded by a new slam project that initially involved Danny, Chris and Tim called The Forrest Gump Mile High Marathon. 

For extended bio and other information, please visit the myspace page at myspace.com/praetermorte or the facebook page at facebook.com/PraeterMorte.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Praeter+Morte">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.