Disambiguition: there are actually at least ten projects named Precious: 

1.) A girl group from the UK.  Louise Rose, Anya Lahiri, Jenny Frost, Kalli Clark-Stemberg and Sophie McDonnell make up the girl group Precious. Precious represented the United Kingdom in the 1999 Eurovision Song with the song 'Say It Again' and came 12th. This song entered the UK top 40 at number 6. The follow up 'Rewind' charted at number 11 and the group's third single entered the chart at number 27. The group later split. Jenny Frost joined girl group Atomic Kitten while Sophie McDonnell became a presenter on CBBC.

2.) An 80's darkwave electronica project. 

3.) An art rock trio from Orlando, Florida, existing from about 1993-2004.  They released two full-length records, Precious and Whatever Sinks Your Ship.

4.) An 80's/90's heavy metal outfit from Japan, with legendary guitarist Akira Kajiyama, who played on several Joe Lynn Turner albums.

5.) Precious is also a unsigned Pop Punk band from Sweden

6.) There is a Soca Artist called Precious. She is from Barbados.

7.)  A female rapper from the late 1980's, early 1990's.

8.) An electronic/techno/dubstep artist from Kalamazoo, MI. Started in 2011

9.) Post-hardcore band featuring members of Threadbare, The Blinding Light, Adamantium, Stickfigurecarousel, Death By Stereo, Snapcase, and Mean Season.

10.) A dungeon synth artist from Iowa City, Iowa. 

11.) PRECIOUS (Hangul: 프레셔스) is a South Korean girl group under UMI Entertainment. The original lineup consisted of five members; Eun B, Ji Hyo, Han Woom, Lee Soo, and Han Byeol. They made their debut on September 23rd, 2020 with the single "BEBE". On September 23rd, 2022, it was announced that Ji Hyo, Lee Soo and Han Byeol terminated their contracts and that the group will continue as a duo consisting of Eun B and Han Woom. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Precious">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.