There are more than one band by the name Prejudice.

1. Prejudice was formed in 1993 during the peak of death metal’s first wave by guitarist Def together with 4 inexperienced members. Prior to the 1997 recording debut the band underwent a number of stylistic and line-up changes. The years in between ’93 to ’97 band members were asked to join while others were replaced. During these formative years Prejudice cemented the foundation for what later would become their recognizable sound. Two promotional recordings were done in the process and the first tours in support of these promo tapes were done in the domestic club circuit. Over the years – without any label support - Prejudice has forged a path for themselves through constant improvement in the song-writing/recording department, a solid live reputation through awe-inspiring gigs combined with rigorous touring schedules and a headstrong determination to reach the upper echelons of their chosen field. The continual touring has won them the Belgian Vader tag, from fans and critics alike.

The band’s debut “Broken Promises” saw release in 1997. This effort was self-released, promoted & distributed by the band. Groove laden, technical death metal with occasional hardcore breakdowns was brought to the table, a genre fairly unheard of at the time in Belgium, the band’s home country. With the “Broken Tour ’98” Prejudice subsequently took their music on the road through Italy, Germany, Holland and Belgium. In between tours Prejudice begins the writing process for the follow-up to their debut, this album will take the brutality and complexity the band stands for to an even higher level. In March/April 2000 Prejudice tours Europe with Czech brutal death combo Godless Truth under the moniker of the “Brutal Zero Zero Tour”. The tour takes the bands through Germany, Holland, France, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic, Austria, Switzerland and Italy. In December of the same year a headliner tour through Portugal is successfully completed.
October 2001 marks the debut of the band’s second album “Reality”. This album sees Prejudice maturing on a musical – and lyrical level at a geometric rate. Torrents of relentless complex riffs, neck-breaking structures, dizzying time-signatures and obliterating drum salvos easily make this the band’s most ferocious, daring record to date. Fans and critics alike applaud the band’s meticulous effort put into writing, arranging and perfecting “Reality”. Offers to join gigs and tours pour in. November and December the band spends on the road through entire Europe with Portugal’s Sacred Sin and Italy’s Cadaveric Crematorium in support of the “Reality” album. Spring and summer of ’02 are filled with numerous appearances at festivals and countless gigs all over Europe with the likes of Immortal (NO), Hypocrisy (SE), Malevolent Creation (US), Testament (US), Darkane (SE), Aborted (BE), Sinister (NL), Death Angel (US), Kataklysm (CA) and lots of others.

This campaign was followed by the “Revelations Tour ’02” all through September and October which is headlined by Poland’s premier death metal institution Vader, supported by such high profile acts as Brazilian death metal behemoths Krisiun, Poland’s technical deathsters Decapitated, Holland’s death/grind outfit Houwitser completed by US death metal combos Dying Fetus and Monstrosity. December 2002 Prejudice once again aligns itself with Italy’s Cadaveric Crematorium for a string of dates that cover Belgium, Luxembourg and Switzerland. Swedish brutal metal act Pandemonium and Belgium’s technical death metal act Emeth complete the bill. Concluding that month, Prejudice performs alongside Dutch brutal death metal act Disavowed on the Chuck Benefit Fest in Desselgem, Belgium.

2003 – After having spent nearly 2 years on the road to support their acclaimed “Reality” album Prejudice strikes once more with “Dominion Of Chaos”. Thanks to drastically improved production values, further developed song writing – and honed technical skills “Dominion Of Chaos” turns out to become everything the band aimed for. The album is met with positive critics and reviews in the international metal press. Prejudice is asked to join old school US death metal act Six Feet Under and Germany’s Obscenity on their June/July dates. In December Prejudice does the “Revolting South” mini-tour including Italy’s own Death Dies. One date in Switzerland and 4 dates in Italy are completed.

During January until midway February 2004 Prejudice tours Europe alongside an all-American package of the genre’s brightest hopes. Touring alongside Hate Eternal, Dying Fetus and Deeds Of Flesh on the “Dominion Of European Chaos Tour” opens up an entire new fan base for the band. September and October of the same year Prejudice once again hits the road for another European tour with Ukrainian formation Fleshgore and Mexican gore/grind act Rottenness, this is to become to the “All Over Absorbing European Tour”. The second half of October Prejudice joins Maltese grinding death metal outfit Beheaded on what is to become the “Beheading Europe” tour which is supported by the prestigious US based Unique Leader label.

March 2005 sees Prejudice on stage at the No Mercy Fest in Tilburg, Holland. The band shares stages with Nile (US), Six Feet Under (US), Dying Fetus (US), Dark Funeral (SE) and Germany’s Disbelief. In April Prejudice performs alongside UK death/grind combo Gorerotted at the Hell Fest in Poland. In June of the same year Prejudice finishes the recordings for a three-way split release with long-time friends and touring buddies Carnal Decay (Switzerland) and Rottenness (Mexico), which is released by Spanish independent label Grotesque Productions. Due to matters beyond their control Rottenness eventually isn’t able to provide the tracks for their part of the split, savage UK porn/grind formation Infant Bile step up the plate and subsequently replace Rottenness on the split album.
December 2005 proves to be an important juncture point in the band’s decade plus existence. Scoring two endorsement deals almost back-to-back is only an indication of what’s to come next. Krest Cymbals exclusively endorses drummer Frank, while bassist George and guitarists Def & Tuni are endorsed by Mayones Guitars & Basses (Katatonia, Behemoth, Vader, Spoil Engine, etc). Signing shortly thereafter to Greek label Sleaszy Rider Records (Ancient, Deviser, Odious, Ricky Warwick) Prejudice finally see their entire back catalogue re-issued and available on a global level. Thanks to the wide reaching distribution channels of their new contractor, the albums reach stores to coincide with their upcoming tour dates. April and May are spent on the road touring Europe with Hate Eternal, Belphegor and Psycroptic. Appearing at the Fuck the Commerce Fest, Germany alongside Vital Remains, Deranged and the wildly influential Extreme Noise Terror only serve to consolidate Prejudice’s status as a force to be reckoned within the international extreme metal scene.
Taking the band into 2006 sees Prejudice undergoing a major overhaul as far as personnel is concerned. Frank Vangeneugden, after loyally serving a decade behind the kit, announces his departure from the band due to personal reasons and the interest to pursue job-related opportunities. A month later, May, local promising drummer Christophe Piette is drafted into the fold at this point helping Prejudice merely on a session basis. July kicks in with bassist George parting ways with the band, naming musical differences as the reason. The band wastes no time in acquiring the services of a new bassist. Roughly around the same time, Piette becomes a full-fledged member of the combo. Despite all this turmoil within the ranks, Prejudice persevere to compose and arrange material for their fourth record, to be their Sleaszy Rider Records debut. 

2. Prejudice is a hardcore band from Geneva, Switzerland (rename : Prejudice-gva)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Prejudice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.