Pretty Ugly (Birth Name Carlton Mann) aka "The Boy Papes" is a rapper from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Still an underground artist, he is yet to release his first album. He received a small amount of attention when he appeared on Grand Theft Auto III soundtrack, on a collaboration entitled "Spit Game". Due to the fact that Grand Theft Auto was generally new, Pretty Ugly did not get the same exposure than that of artists featuring on the other Grand Theft Autos.

Pretty Ugly released the single "Stack G's Regardless" through Game Recordings, the B side to the single called "" featured P-Dap and a then unknown 50 Cent. 

Throughout the late 1990's Pretty Ugly was co-signed by well known N.Y.C. DJ; DJ Stretch Armstrong, he appeared on the album "DJ Stretch Armstrong Presents SPIT" and was also signed to Stretch's label Spit Inc but never released an album due to Armstrong selling the Spit name to Def Jam Records.

In 2001 his track "The Struggle" appeared on Landspeed Records compilation album The High & Mighty Presents Eastern Conference All Stars II. Also in 2001, he appeared on Stimulated Vol.1, a release by Stimulated Records.

Recently 

Although the rapper may not be well know by mainstream hip hop fans he has a large Underground hip hop following due to appearing on many DJ Whoo Kid mixtapes and being backed by producer Red Spyda. In 2006 Pretty ugly featured on Hi-Tek's second album Hi-Teknology_2, he performed alongside rappers such as Ghostface Killah, Bun B and Devin the Dude. He has also appeared on Prince Paul's album Politics of the Business, along with Masta Ace and Kokane.

In 2008 Pretty Ugly is expected to release his long overdue first album which is thought to be entitled "Eviction Day". Also, a song titled "Question 2 Jay-Z" has been released for download on Pretty Ugly's myspace.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pretty+Ugly">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.