There are (or were) at least 7 artists with the name Prevail:

1) - Disbanded underground screamo band from Scranton/Florence/Conway/Columbia, SC. 
2) - A technical hardcore/metal band based out of the Ambler area of Pennsylvania, that changed their name to Ancestor 
3) - An underground hip hop artist from the group SWOLLEN MEMBERS based in Vancouver.
4) - Disbanded metal band from the Northern California Bay Area 
5) - A Danish Death Metal band. 
6) - A hardcore band from Barcelona, Spain
7) - A Heavy Metal band from Split, Croatia


1) The first Prevail was an underground screamo from Scranton/Florence/Conway/Columbia, SC.  They played between the years of 1994-1998. They released a demo tape, a 7 inch on Insurgent Sounds, a 12 inch on King of the Monsters, a split 7 inch with Stretch Arm Strong on Insurgent Sounds, a 7 inch on Concurrent Records, songs on several compilations, and a CD discography on Hanged Hero.  They shared members with rinse, hassan i sabbah, Homeland Security.

2) Prevail was a technical hardcore/metal band based out of the Ambler area of Pennsylvania, whom after several line-up changes eventually evolved into ANCESTOR. They recently released an EP called "Koalacaust", which can be streamed on www.last.fm/music/ancestor, Myspace, and other sites. More info can be found at www.myspace.com/ancestor or www.weareancestor.wordpress.com

3) Prevail is also an underground hip hop artist from the group SWOLLEN MEMBERS based in Vancouver.

4) Prevail was a metal band from the Northern California Bay Area from 1998-2002.  They released one studio album, "It Takes A Whole Lot Of Work, It Takes A Whole Lot Of Time... And It Still Sucks!", before going the way of all flesh.

5) PREVAIL Danish Death Metal (http://www.myspace.com/prevailmetal) was formed by  Claus Gnudtzmann, Michael Lundquist and Niels Thøgersen who had decided to make some death metal after leaving Svartsot

6) PREVAIL is also a hardcore band from Barcelona, Spain. www.myspace.com/prevailbcn

They soon got joined by Niels' brother Emil, who filled the spot as lead guitarist. After some months trying out bassists they finally found one worthy for the job. Jacob from 6 Degrees was that guy.

Now that the line-up was complete, they could concentrate on getting ready for the first gig in 2010 at
MIDWINTER MELTDOWN in Randers on the 30th of January 2010 where they were joined by the bands

7) Prevail is a Heavy Metal band from Split, Croatia, formed in 2010.
In February 2012 the band released their first official video for the song Placebo God, taken from their EP  First Conflict  that was self-released in May 2012.

Current band line-up: 

Toni Ljubić - vocals
Davor Petrović - guitar
Boris Petrović - guitar
Miran Židić - bass
Pere Eranović - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Prevail">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.