Preyer is a British traditional heavy metal band formed in Pontypridd Llantwit Fardre, South Wales in 1984. Preyer immediately began working on an original set, basing themselves very much in the Judas Priest, Accept mould. 

Later that year the band recorded their first demo entitled 'On The Prowl' at STUDIO 2 in Cardiff and was produced by Mal Skrines. The demo attracted a bigger following which led them to audition for a fifth band member, namely James Rees formerly of the band Mammath (who had previously released a single on Neat Records entitled 'Rock Me'). 

In September 1985 Preyer released their second demo 'Fear The Dark' with production again handled by Skrines, this time though with the added guitar pyrotechnics of James Rees. 'Fear The Dark' brought the band further reviews with mentions in Kerrang! and many Independent Rock Magazines throughout the country. This was followed by extensive gigging throughout Great Britain and the band went from strength to strength. In early December 1985 Preyer recorded two tracks namely 'Shout It Out and 'The Preyer' for a BBC TV rock magazine called 'Juice'. The programme was broadcast a week later, and proved highly successful, reaching an estimated audience of over 4 million. 

This created interest with Black Dragon Records and Irate Management amongst others, however it was Ebony Records that eventually signed the boys up. This led to the recording of Preyer's' debut album 'Terminator' at Ebony studios in Hemingbrough, North Yorkshire, which was produced by Darryl Johnston. 'Terminator' was released in November 1986 . 

In December 1986 Preyer recorded another session for the BBC 'Juice' programme, now in it's second series, this time performing one number 'Leather and Chains' a popular live and album track. More gigs followed and the band to this day grow in strength and provide first class mainstream heavy metal delivering a powerful and dazzling live show. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Preyer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.