Prey For Nothing was forged in the flame of progressive metal gone dire. At the beginning, Amir (bass), Yaniv (guitars) & Iftah (drums) met under the musical roof of dissolved Prog Metal band DamnNation. In the early 2000s they played numerous shows, including legendary Iron Maiden singer Paul Dianno, and released a self-printed album called "Mentally Trapped" in 2004. Iftah left for one year of studying in the Musical Academy of Los Angeles, USA, and DamnNation was no more. But as he returned a year later, a new metal act came to be. 

Now known as Prey For Nothing,  the band was joined by Yotam Defiler Avni (from Extreme Metal band Abed)  with an acid throat and iron lungs to stand as the frontman and vocalist of this project. Inspired by the leading edge of extreme metal as Arch Enemy and some classic acts like Death, At The Gates and Testament  the band started performing around Israel, and grew quite a massive local fan base. The band supported Paradise Lost, Aborted and Finntroll in Israel and performed with the leading Israeli metal bands. "Violence Divine", the majestic debut album, was recorded at Hansen studios by the skilled and known producer Jacob Hansen (Destruction, Volbeat, Communic, Nightrage and many more) in late April 2007. The album was released in September 2008 through Rusty Cage Records, and was an immediate metallic success to the Israeli metal fan. 2009 saw the joining of Tal Behar (Betrayer, Vipress and live session for Orphaned Land) on guitars, replacing Eyal Glottman (ex-Eternal Gray). The band was swung into a full-time live band, tearing the Israeli stages apart with energetic performance and skilled musical accuracy. 

In 2010 the band is planning to record its sophomore album, tour Europe and deliver a majestic blow of Melodic Death Metal supremacy. You are now welcome to join the musical predatory of Prey For Nothing. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Prey+For+Nothing">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.