Zoetermeer (Holland) based deaththrash act Priapis was founded in 1996. The lineup has undergone minor changes but has been stable since 1999. 
The current lineup is: Marcel Braat (vocals), Evert de Jong & Danny Schmidt (guitars), Maarten van der Werf (bass) and Robert Jutte (drums). 

The main core of the bands sound is dissonant fast paced thrash metal interwoven with a diversity of styles coming from outside the thrash metal spectrum, giving this quintet a unique sound. Its along the line of bands like Venom, Testament, Forbidden and Asphyx, with a vocal approach reminiscent of Wargasm. The lyrics are mainly about personal feelings and the state of affairs in this fucked up world. 

In 1998, Priapis first demo was recorded under rehearse conditions. Despite these circumstances, the demo entitled "This World Is Sick" made clear what the band was capable of. In 2001, the second demo "Prey" saw the light of day. Being more thrash orientated and full bodied, it reflected the evolution the band went through in these three years and signposted the transformation of their style into a mature mix of thrash versusmetal. "Prey" was highly acclaimed by the Dutch leading metal magazine Aardschok in January 2002. 
The year after, Priapis rereleased "Prey" with an added bonus video track of the song "Day In Day Out". This track was also featured on the Portugese "Metal Ostentation II" compilation which was released inNovember 2002. 
Meanwhile, these maniacs have played several gigs with bands like Blo.Torch, Altar, Reborn, Mother Of Sin, Road Kill & Spheres. Where performing is no problem for Priapis, writing songs is more relentless. In Priapis approach to delivering their music to the masses, quality comes before quantity and consequently, new songs take a while to be finalized. Five new songs have emerged since the "Prey"-sessions and are presented on the new demo "Inhuman" which was released early 2006. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Priapis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.