The Beginning Progressing from the technical thrash outfit Relayer and the Black/Death metal mayhem of Imprecation, Victor forms a new Death Metal band with the intent to combine elements of the afformentioned styles. Omar and Juan Fernandez are brought back from Relayer on drums and bass respectively. Kevin joins on vocals and the first lineup of Primeval is complete. Intense writing and rehearsals follow and quickly the musical path is paved. "Condemned" is one of the first songs to arise from these sessions and later becomes the title track of the first demo. Primeval records songs on 4-track in preparation for the studio. Soon, a setback no one was prepared for will bring the band to the brink of extinction just as it is still developing. Tragedy Strikes On the 11th night of March 1995 Victor, Omar and older brother Mario are involved in a fatal car crash that claims the lives of Omar and Mario. Victor survives but is left in a coma. Victor eventually recovers and decides to carry on the band in memory of his fallen brothers. Rudy Delgado is brought in to fill the drum spot. A New Beginning Primeval begins the next chapter with the aquisition of Rudy. Meanwhile, Victor prepares the original 4-track recordings for studio mastering. During this time, Vocalist Kevin decides to leave, Primeval is left to find another member. John Benavides, former bass player with Distorted Rage, is brought in to take over the vocals. John lends his vocals to the track "Sub-Species" and the demo is now complete. The songs are taken to Texas Music Studios and Condemned is released on The Texas Music (Death) Syndicate label. The 4 song demo is a heavy slab of Death/Doom metal that hints at where Primeval will head in future releases. The demo receives killer reviews in various publications and gets underground radio play. Condemned is dedicated to memory of Omar and Mario. Chapter II Primeval writes and rehearses new material for the next release: 1997's "Temptation". The CD expands on the elements of the demo and introduces a hint of the "Black" metal style. Featuring 8 anthems of destruction, the CD establishes Primeval as a force in the underground world. With crushing songs such as "The Sleeper has Awakened" and "Manipulator", the CD showcases Primeval's lyrical and musical progression. Scorn of Incubus In 1998 Primeval records "Scorn of Incubus". This 4 song MCD once again builds on the momentum of the previous release and further expands Primeval's style. The song "The Puritan" is also featured on S.O.D. Magazine's "Death of the World" compilation CD from Issue ..12. Fans from as far away as Russia, through underground distribution, get a taste of Primeval. The Next Chapter After a year of writing and rehearsing, drummer Rudy decides to step down from the drums. Several songs were written during this period and rough tracks have been recorded. Primeval is pleased to welcome Welden Roberts, formerly of local thrashers Legion, to the band. Welden brings a powerful dumming style to the band and his skills will help further the band's progression.


Also : 

U.S. horror rap with one full lenght release, "Splatter House" in 2019. http://www.facebook.com/primevalmusic , http://www.twitter.com/PrimevalMusic , http://www.primevalmusic.bandcamp.com

Canadian death/black metal with one demo "The Cult LP" in 2004. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Primeval">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.