Primitive Instinct ("PI") are a Progressive/Classic Rock band, formed in 1987 in Maidstone, Kent, England, by guitarist/vocalist/songwriter Nick Sheridan, who still fronts the band today. To the uninitiated, a ballpark description of PI would be modern-day Marillion meets Pink Floyd. Importantly though, PI have developed their own distinctive and individual approach, thus ensuring their own sound.

History

Formed in 1987 the original line up consisted of Nick Sheridan (guitar and vocals) Andy Quinnel (keyboards) Billy Geddes (bass) Nick Brown (guitar) and Richard Culham (drums). In the late 1980s and early 1990s, they gigged constantly, building up an ever-increasing fan base in the south east of England, later to spread around Great Britain and abroad. During this period they released 4 cassette-only fan albums (A Primitive Instinct, Once Round Your Ear, On A Rainy Night and Into The Ocean). The early 1990s heralded the arrival of bassist "Pic" Hayes, who remains today, as the nucleus of the band with Sheridan. Nick Brown also left the band around the same time.

In 1994, PI secured a deal with Cyclops Records, releasing their first CD album, Floating Tangibility. Meeting with widespread critical acclaim from all quarters, it sold several thousand copies with very little promotion. The 1990s saw them securing support slots with the likes of IQ, Pendragon, and John Wetton, with the latter musician being particularly impressed by their live show. Richard Culham was replaced by Chris Brown (drums) in 1995. In a similar manner to Tom Scholz of Boston, principal songwriter Sheridan does not rush to follow up albums, and to stem the demand from fans waiting for a follow up to Floating Tangibility, PI released a cherry-picked selection of early demos as "Ice For Eskimos" in 1998. Andy Quinnell left to pursue a career in banking leaving PI to continue as a three-piece.

Belief

The long wait for a new album proved to be worth it, when in 2000 PI released Belief. Setting the benchmark for future releases by the band, it combines great songwriting, memorable choruses and a sense of the epic. The early "Noughties" saw PI promoting Belief extensively with gigs across the UK and Europe and the Belief album received many excellent reviews and much critical acclaim from across the world.

Current Status

In 2005 the band concentrated on rehearsing for what would become dubbed the "Flurry" tour in 2006, which has already taken in dates with Wishbone Ash and The Yardbirds. Belief has also been re-packaged and re-released, and is available from the band's official website. PI are also recording a new album for release in late 2007. Early indications suggest that PI have maintained the high standards set by Belief, with several songs already included in the live set. Long standing drummer Chris Brown left the band in Spring 2006, to emigrate to the USA. However, Sheridan and Hayes have been joined by long term fan Stuart Bailey on drums and have vowed a long-term strategy for the band, asserting themselves as one of the premier "Nu Prog" bands in the United Kingdom. 2007 marks the 20th anniversary for the band, quite an achievement and must make them one of the longest lived unsigned bands in the country.

2012. "P.I." are in the process of recording a brand new studio album and are planning a special show to coincide with their 25th anniversary on 3rd November this year in Maidstone. Along with Nick, Bassist Pic has been with the band some 23 years now and with the addition of old friend Graham McGarrick on Drums and new member Jonathan Vincent on keyboards they truly are an awesome foursome! The last few years has seen the boys play shows with Wishbone Ash, Stray, The Yardbirds and Karnataka. A few years back John Wetton was highly impressed with the live act - high praise indeed. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Primitive+Instinct">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.