From beyond the abyss, from beyond the veil, Primary Slave are back from beyond the Grave.....
PRIMARY SLAVE is a band that went through some turbulent times in their lifespan, culminating in the tragically early death of the Singer and guitarist Mark Giltrow, killed in an unexplained motorcycle accident aged just 31 on his way home during the recording of their second album- now aptly named in honour of his last legacy - 'Another Mark Is Drawn'  released 2012.

Originally founded as the "Lilith" project with Paul Allender, now back with Cradle of Filth again, the band have been dubbed as "Cyber-metal" by the press, their self recorded Debut album - (Data Plague)musically represented all that is dark and predatory and have been compared to bands such as Voivod and Strapping Young Lad was released in 2000 to high acclaim.

After Marks death,
Left on the ageing home studio computer were the hundreds of files that made up his second album. Determined for Mark's music not to be lost, Horace Martin (Data Plague producer) and Neale Dunham (Fifth Amendment guitarist) set about the task of finishing the album and getting as much of Mark's vision on to disc as possible. The computer however did not agree. It refused to cooperate and failed to boot up, the motherboard was defunct, the hard drives had scrambled, the fates were against us.

Financed completely by friends and family, grabbing cheap or free studio time where and whenever possible, there is a sense that much time has been spent on every part to try and maximise its impact.

Enter Chris Dunham who rebuilt the infernal device part by part, slowly recovering all Mark's data and the difficult task of searching back through multiple versions of songs to find the best takes, vocals and solos it has taken four years of pain and gritted teeth to defeat the digital gremlins and to have rebuilt, finalized and mastered the album, which releases today. Available to buy on CD or as a digital download, we hope the wait is over and Mark's final work can go out into the world and give some pleasure to others. It's a fitting legacy for a man who would have found the trials and tribulations it took to get this far little short of hilarious. We hope it's what he would have wanted.

R.I.P Mark Giltrow,   18th Dec 1974 - 25th Apr 2006

Credits for the album go to:
 Mark Giltrow, Songwriter, vocalist, lead guitars, bass
Graham Lyons, Drums
Horace Noidea, Album producer
Neale Dunham, Post production, additional guitars
Lee Dunham, Additional guitars 
Chris Dunham, Technical support and video production
Ian Foxon,  Artwork – web design
Sites: 
 
      *Website WWW.PRIMARYSLAVE.COM 
  *Video Promo  WWW.PRIMARYSLAVERS.MOONFRUIT.COM  
       * Fansites WWW.MYSPACE.COM/PRIMARYSLAVE , FACEBOOK,
                        TWITTER: @PRIMARY_SLAVE
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Primary+Slave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.