2000
From the smoking pile that once was the doom metal band Amethist  a new death/thrash metal band arose. 
Remaining members  Arjan, Gertjan and Erik decided to play faster and to create a sound being melodic like Nightwish and brutal like At The Gates.
To this purpose they recruited Lieneke to add female vocals alongside Gertjan’s growls.
Being inspired by the movie “Braveheart” the band name Prima Nocte was adopted. 
In this the band found enough inspiration to create a concept album explaining the law of the first night (Prima Nocte)
During that same period a bass player was found in the person of Peter from death metal band Scrotum. 
Because of the non-availability of the internet domain name primanocte.com, and other bands in different genres using the same name, they decided to ‘rename’ the band to Prima-Nocte.

2002
Unfortunately the concept album never saw daylight…
After trying for quite a while to make the melodic and the heavy parts work together, a style the band intended to play, and not being satisfied with it, Gertjan and Lieneke decided to leave Prima-Nocte
Prima-Nocte continued and the band evolved further more in creating a death metal sound.
Gertjan currently sings in the band Nymphea Aurora and Lieneke sings in the project Flower’s Grave. 
In Jeroen they found a new singer, a choice easily made because Jeroen and Erik knew each other from Sustained , a death/thrash band they both played in.

2003
Prima-Nocte recorded their first 3-track demo “The First Night”. This demo was recorded in their rehearsal room and was for promotional use only.

2004
Prima-Nocte recorded their “Aborted Divinity” CD at Helter Belter studio’s. 
Engineered by Paul Beltman (Judgement Day/Sinister).
Aborted Divinity contained  11 songs with a various range of styles. Varying from hardcore to death metal and thrash to black metal.
Although this cd got good reviews on the songs themselves it was clear that Prima-Nocte had not found it’s own sound and style yet.

2007
After a long range of people wanting the position of second guitarist they finally found a good match in Johnny, who used to play guitar in SubRosa and sing in Xantossa. 
And so..…. the line up was completed.

2008
After winning “Kabaal 2008” (Wageningen, The Netherlands) they played at “Kabaal am Gemaal 2008” a festival on the fifth of May celebrating the liberation of Holland during the second world war, which attracts thousands of people every year.

2009
In April that year Prima-Nocte entered the Excess Recording Studios (Rotterdam, The Netherlands) to record their “Trapped Soul Trophy” album. This 6-track brutal death metal MCD was recorded in 3 days by Chris van der Valk and mixed and mastered by Hans Pieters.
This album shows how Prima-Nocte progressed musically as well in creating their own style within the death metal genre. 

Line up:  
Jeroen – Vocals
Arjan – Guitar
Johnny – Guitar
Peter – Bass Guitar
Erik – Drums

Homepage:
www.prima-nocte.com
www.myspace.com/primanoctemetal

Contact:
erik@prima-nocte.com
bookings@prima-nocte.com

Discography:
The First Night (CDemo, 2003)                           
Aborted Divinity (CD, 2004)                         
Trapped Soul Trophy (MCD, 2009)

Former bands: 
Amethist (Arjan, Erik),  
Hellfire Nemesis (Erik), 
Judgement Day (Johnny), 
Myosotis (Arjan), 
Scrotum (Peter), 
Soulreaver (Jeroen), 
SubRosa (Johnny), 
Sustained (Erik, Jeroen), 
The Rebellion (Erik), 
Xantossa (Johnny),

Current bands:  
Mortifer (Erik)

Related Links:
http://www.spirit-of-metal.com/groupe-groupe-Prima*Nocte-l-en.html

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Prima-Nocte">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.