Growing up on Princeton Street in Santa Monica, twin brothers Jesse & Matt Kivel and childhood friend Ben Usen started playing together as a group in the late 90’s, but officially formed Princeton during a year long stay in London in 2005. With the addition of drummer David Kitz, the band first gained attention in 2008 with the conceptual four-song Bloomsbury EP, a breezy dance-pop confection about the imaginative group of British intellectuals. The band now lives in the Eagle Rock district of LA where their new album (Cocoon of Love) was recorded. Their debut record will be out on September 29th on Kanine Records. For more information go to http://princetonLA.com or http://myspace.com/princetonmusic


2) Coming up in Dallas, Tx, Princeton was exposed to the gospel plenty of times. Not only by churches, but mainly by his parents when he was young. "I remember sitting down with my dad reading out of Genesis, and how God made creation," Princeton says. "Both of my parents did their job in telling me about Jesus, but something just didn't click in me yet. I didn't think they were lying but I wasn't living for Jesus then." Growing up in a household with both parents and an older brother, Princeton was disciplined at a young age to behave and not do wrong. Because of that, as he began school he was a good student to his teachers, a good friend to his peers, and an overall good person, on human standards. Princeton started rhyming ever since he was little. He would just rap for fun with his karaoke machine and piano. He continued this throughout his years in school, all the way up to high school. "When I was in History class, I remember writing lyrics on the back of my spiral and having some of my friends to check it out. Of course it was about how tight I thought I was and how I could get chicks, how I could beat anybody in basketball and whatnot. It was me, me, me, like agent smith in the Matrix." He started to fall in love with hip hop, but little did he know it was going to be a tool to grab his heart for Christ. When he was a junior in HS, Princeton went to a Christian hip hop concert featuring Dillon Chase, Tedashii, and Trip Lee. For the first time he saw young dudes who looked like him unashamed of the gospel. It rocked his worldview. "As I was there, I remember listening to the lyrics and trying to get crunk, but as I looked around, the folks around me seemed to know who they were getting crunk for. I didn't." As the rappers would explain the message of the songs and ultimately the message of the gospel, Princeton stood and examined himself. "At the end of the day, I could feel the Spirit tugging at my heart; For to really give my whole life to the LORD Jesus. And that night, I did. I trusted Jesus as LORD over my life and not just my Savior. He opened my eyes to see His worth." Now, all Princeton wants to do is live a life full of faith; loving God, people, serving others with the gospel, and making disciples. He see's rapping as a talent or gift from God, and it isn't to be seen as anything more special than any other gift God gives to His people. "I want my bars to be packed with Christ and the gospel. He's the only One worthy to be rapped about." Princeton currently goes to the University of North Texas and serves in a college ministry named Plumbline. He also has a mixtape entitled REDprint and is working on another one called Crack the Whip.



  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Princeton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.