There are multiple artists with this name:

1)  Princess is a UK Female artist 

She worked with Stock Aitken Waterman on her 1986 platinum selling debut album 'Princess' which included 5 UK hit singles including "After The Love Has Gone" (no. 28), "Say I'm Your Number One" (no. 7), "I'll Keep On Loving You" (no. 16) and 'Tell Me Tomorrow' (no. 34)

In 1987 Princess went to the USA to work with a variety of American producers on her second and final album 'All For Love', which features the hit 'Red Hot'(no. 58). Princess's real name is Desiree Heslop.

2)Princess is a US Female Rapper.

As a member of the group Crime Mob, this young artist has been one of the females holding it down for the "Dirty South" in the rapgame for quite a while now. Princess is, however, not just a group member, she also has a solo-project going on and she's planning on releasing an album with fellow Crime Mob (female) rapper Diamond.

3) Princess is Indonesian girl band.

4) Princess is an experimental grindcore band from Poland.

5) Princess is an Indiepunk band from Rheda-Wiedenbrück, Germany.

6) Princess is a Post-Rock/electronic band from Nottingham signed by Field Records.

They released the EP 'Superstructure of an era' in 2006.

7) Princess is a violinist group from Hungary.
8) Princess is an acoustic pop singer from the Philippines. Also known as Princess Velasco. hubpages article

9) Princess is a heavy pop band from Athens, OH.

10) Princess is a noise pop band from Dublin, Ireland.This is their bandcamp: http://thatsoprincess.bandcamp.com

11) There is a metal band from Seattle called Princess. This is their Bandcamp page. 

12) Saturday Night Live's Maya Rudolph and LA singer-songwriter Gretchen Lieberum are PRINCESS, a Prince cover band. The two have been singing together since college but it was only recently that the duo turned their mutual adoration for Prince into a musical project. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Princess">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.