There are several artists known as Priscilla.

1) A French singer
2) An American glam metal band from Cleveland, Ohio.
3) An Italian noise band
4) A Eurobeat vocalist

1) Préscillia Samantha Cynthia Betti, known by the stage name Priscilla or Prissou, is a French singer.

Priscilla was born on August 2, 1989 in La Trinité near Nice, France. She was 11 years old when the show "Les drôles de petits champions" aired, and was discovered by the producer Patrick Debord (MGM). She signed with Jive records, the same record house as her idol, Britney Spears and later that year recorded her first single "Quand Je Serai Jeune".

In 2003, she acted in a film directed by Hervé Palud entitled Albert est méchant with Christian Clavier and Michel Serrault.

After having consistent classical schooling up until the end of 8th grade, she decided to not enter secondary school, preferring to take correspondence courses so that she could better concentrate on her artistic career.

Priscilla has released four albums: "Cette vie nouvelle" in 2001, "Priscilla" in 2003, "Une fille comme moi" in 2004, and "Bric à brac" in 2005.

Her song "Cette Vie Nouvelle" is a French rendition of the song "What a Feeling" from the hit movie "Flashdance". In 2006 she was asked by Disney to sing the French version of "Call me, Beep Me", the theme song for the popular carton Kim Possible.

2) Priscilla is an American glam metal band from from Cleveland, Ohio.
Picture a slightly heavier version of glam legends Poison and you’ll have a pretty good idea of what Priscilla is all about. It was the late ’80s when Priscilla made waves with their “Wake Up the Neighborhood” single, followed by opening slots for Pretty Boy Floyd and Hericane Alice.

Band:
El Mar Kramer – lead/background vocals
Mike Koloda – lead/rhythm guitar
Tommy Frietchen – rhythm/lead guitar and background vocals
Terry Michael Sommers – bass and background vocals
Jeffrey Mash – drums
 
www.myspace.com/priscillaglam

3) "PRISCILLA" is also the name of an italian noise-guitar band active in 1997-1998, starring Onq, and members from Morose and The Colours Seen From Behind.

4) Priscilla is also one of many aliases for the eurobeat vocalist Clara Moroni. Moroni has been associated with the eurobeat labels Flea, Time Records, and Delta. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Priscilla">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.