There are two musical groups by the name Pristina.  One group focuses on electronic, ambient music while the other is a grindcore group.  The following is based upon their own descriptions respectively.

     Pristina is a collective. A group of talented female writers/vocalists, teamed together with writer/producer Joey B. of The Echoing Green. The idea was to create a beautiful, female-driven, sophisticated electronic record - so Joey called upon friends he had made over his many years of recording and touring with The Echoing Green, as well as some new friends to lend their talents.
     "I think Pristina's secret weapon is that most all of the women involved have backrounds in acoustic and rock-type genres... nothing electronic. So when I asked them to be a part of an electronic project - they were all excited to step out of their element and flex different musical muscles, so-to-speak." says Joey.

     Based in Connecticut, Pristina features ex-members of a diverse list of Northeast bands, including Dry Kill Logic, 100 Demons, Invocation Of Nehek, A Thousand Falling Skies, Born Under Saturn, and more. Revitalizing the best elements of the 90’s metallic hardcore boom, Pristina lays down the gauntlet with a menacing sound that is equally dark, driving, and hypnotic. Revolver Magazine has described Pristina as “a chaotic surge of hardcore intimidation, atonal riff bombardment, and sound-collage psych ops.”
September 28, 2010, Pristina releases its first full-length album, The Drought (ov Salt and Sorrow), on Trendkill Recordings (Candiria, Spylacopa.) The Drought (ov Salt and Sorrow) was recorded, mixed, and mastered by Today Is The Day’s Steve Austin (Converge, Deadguy) at Austin Enterprise. The album is based around a 23-minute title track, boasting guest appearances by Today Is The Day’s Steve Austin, Bloodlet’s Scott Angelicos, and Starkweather’s Rennie Resmini.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pristina">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.