PRIVATEER'S HISTORY (The Black Ship's log-book) :

PRIVATEER- metal band, which was founded in July 2005 in Krakow, by the bass player and composer Andrzej "Skorgan' Pichliński.

Only two months after the band's founding, Privateer published independedly their first single, "Monolith". The recording was received enthusiastically in the underground, which encouraged the band to work on a full-lenght album.

In the same year (2005) Privateer began cooperation with the Absinthia Management concert agency. Since the beginning of 2006 the band toured extensively, joining Sorcerer and Archeon (Made of Hate) in February for the "Winter Metal Tour 2006”.

 In spring 2006 "The Traitors", Privateer's debut LP was recorded. The album received positive reviews both in Poland and abroad, gaining the band many new fans. All this resulted in record deal proposals from foreign labels. The band decided to sign a one-album contract with a German publisher, STF Records. The deal guaranteed promotion and distribution of "The Traitors" in Western Europe and Scandinavia.

In the meantime, Privateer won a few Polish festivals (1st prize during the Cracow Music Festival, 1st prize during the Mayday Rock Festival in Głogów). Shortly afterwards Privateer took part in the  "Cracow Invasion" mini-tour alongside Witchking. The tour included dates in Poland and Slovakia. 

In spring 2007 Privateer joined the Swedish band Sabaton for the  "Metalizing Europe Tour" - these were the last concerts played in the original line-up.

 When Skorgan and Kramer (Łukasz Kramarski, the band's manager) decided to leave Cracow and move to Warsaw, some of the band members decided they weren't ready to take on such a challenge.  Tomasz Bator (guitar) and Jan “Xen” Gabryś (drums) left Privateer and new musicians joined in: Grzegorz „Eliminator” Olejnik (Hellfire) on the drums and a young, tallented guitarist Adrian Okarski as a replacement for Tomek Bator. The vocal duties also went to a new member - Marcin „Merot” Maliszewski known from The Black Horsemen  and the popular TV programme "Szansa na sukces”, where he famously performed Stan Borys' song "Jaskółka". 

In 2008 new concert proposals appeared. At the beginning of 2008 Privateer headlined the Privateer/TRF Tour. The shows were opened by the German band To Resist Fatality.  The tour included 10 dates in Germany and Poland, with stops in Berlin, Wrocław, Goethingen, Clarholz and Bielsko-Biała.

On 3rd August 2008 Privateer supported Cynic during their only Polish concert in Progresja in Warsaw. In October the band supported Sabaton during two shows in Warsaw and Cracow. Currently, Privateer is working on the aforementioned second LP.

The original line-up included:
 Andrzej "Skorgan" Pichlinski (bass, backing vocals), Szymon "Pudel" Kostro (vocal), Tomasz "Hannibal" Bator (guitars) Daniel Kesler (guitars), Slawomir Kramarski (keys), Xen (drums) .

Currently Privateer's line-up
- Andrzej "Skorgan" Pichlinski (bass, backing vocals)
- Marcin "Merot" Maliszewski (vocal)
- Slawomir Kramarski (keys)
- Adrian Okarski (guitars)
- Daniel Kesler (guitars)


Band contact:

manager -  kramer@privateerband.com 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Privateer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.