1. Processor_: industrial acid house.

Bjorn Wondollek and Johan Isaksson created Processor in 2001. Both are educated sound engineers living in the cities of Norrkoping and Orebro, Sweden. Bjorn is the main sound and sample producer. He provides Processor's music with the edgy fx and industrial soul. 
 Bjorn likes to experiment with synthesizers and effect routings. Bjorn often has sessions in the night doing mixes as long as five hours or until his computer crashes. Then he sends material over the internet to Johan. 
 Bjorn has his musical roots in the 80s industrial and electronic music, listening to bands such as Skinny Puppy, Ministry and Frontline Assembly. The interest for electronic music made Bjorn want to compose his own music. Bjorn is making trance-remixes for other projects alongside with the project Processor and he is also studying music production at the University. 
 Johan experiments, mixes and arrange the samples from Bjorn. Johan prefers a straight beat but he is also a fan off breaks and drum and bass. Johan often samples voices from the Television but he also samples recorded voices. 
 The voice is not the most important ingredients in a song. Johan and Bjorn use the voice more like an instrument. The voice can be mixed lower and it's not the headline of the music. But they also do remix vocal artists. Before Processor, Johan was very much into ambient music, trance and jungle. 
 This particular album contents industrial techno with an edge off breaks. The beats are very heavy and the sounds are heavy processed! 
 We do not intend to take over the world, just the dance floors! 
 Johan Isaksson also releases his own music under the name of Magnatune artist "Wicked boy".

2. Processor is a Thrash/Death Metal band from Germany. The band consists of Jul Schumertl -Vocals, Christian Kirr - Guitars, Julian Planer -Bass, and Matthias Hansel -Drums. Their debut album "Heliopolis" was released in 2018.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Processor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.