There are multiple bands known as Proclamation:

1) Proclamation from Madrid:

And now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand.

Madrid's PROCLAMATION was conceived through titanic blood and graveyard desecration rites back in 2003 by Usurper of Eternal Condemnation and Inverted Crucifixion [guitars and vocals] and Abomination of 4 Winds and Bestial Offensor [drums] in conspiracy with the most bestial and obscure tradition from the old days that were praised by bands like BLASPHEMY, Sarcófago, BATHORY, SODOM, BEHERIT, ARCHGOAT, MYSTIFIER... recording the "Imperious Jaws Of Ire" cult demo tape.

In 2004 join the cult under the ceremonial name in an impure baptism in fire, brother Irreverent Captor of Abysmal Flames and Ultimate Desolation, sealing the pact of the impious trinity. Soon after, “Sabbat of Vengeance” and “Golgotha Impalation” are recorded for the split 7” with Teitanblood under the banner of Kiss of Shame Recs. from Greece, which copies sold-out promptly and became a relic for the most impious minions.

With the support of Reverend of Goetic Ritual Commander of 72 Evil Spirits [[artist]Teitanblood] for live rituals and invocations, their first rites and black masses took place over Europe.

In conspiracy with Ryan Förster [[artist]Conqueror/Blasphemy], and with the American record label Nuclear War Now! Prods., in 2006 the debut album “Advent Of The Black Omen” it’s recorded inside an abandoned and ruined Benenedictine chapel, with an extremely unclean and abrasive analogical production filled with a devastating atmosphere. The distorted disharmonic riffs and metallic overwhelming percussions of the rites exposed in this album tear the refined listener ears down, fans of the most conventional and actual Black Metal, followers of the standards of the Norwegian sounds and to their melancholic melodies with cold and digital productions.

A year after, Proclamation increases its speed and heaviness with the second album “Messiah Of Darkness And Impurity”, maintaining the bestiality and obscurity over technical skills, virtuosity and melody. Praised by the old school Death Metal maniacs and first wave Black Metal worshippers, this work is raised as a piece of cult in the altars of the Emperors of the Black Abyss.

Proclamation has just recorded their brand new album, and the third chapter in the AMEN tetralogy, entitled “Execration of Cruel Bestiality” in the most barbaric tradition of their previous releases.

Renouncing the voyeurism and extroverts showed in Internet, ignoring an actual scene completely commercialized and prostituted, Proclamation keep spreading its black conjurations in numbered gatherings among the loyal ones to the Cult of Shadows in an age in what Black Metal and Death Metal was something occult and doomed.


Proclamation are:

Usurper of Eternal Condemnation and Inverted Crucifixion - vocals, guitars and effects
Abomination of 4 Winds and Bestial Offensor - drums
Irreverent Captor of Abyssmal Flames and Ultimate Desolation - bass


Merch can be ordered from the ROSS BAY distro:

(http://www.rossbaycult.com/)

Also Nuclear War Now Productions:

(www.nwnprod.com)

2) Proclamation was a straight edge hardcore from Massachusetts in the 90's. "There's nothing creative about your lack of self respect" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Proclamation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.