Processory is a band, consisting of vocalist/lyricist Jerry Valuri and producer/musician Jori Hulkkonen.
Eventhough Valuri had delivered some impromptu vocals on Hulkkonen's previous albums, such as 2002's Different's "Man From Solaris", "We Are Rising Sun" and "Four Seasons Four Loves", this time the songwriting process is teamwork; Hulkkonen provides basic musical ideas for Valuri to work on and when common ground is found the song starts to take shape. 

What sets Processory apart from your more traditional songwriter-duos is the exceptional background of its members.

Jori Hulkkonen has been on the international club circuit as a DJ and an artist for more than a decade, releasing 7 artist albums, and a bunch of singles and remixes too many to mention. Mostly known for his increasingly versatile albums on the French F communications label (featuring collaborations with José Gonzalez, John Foxx, Paul Oxley, Nick Triani, Tiga...), and his chart-topping collaboration with Tiga, on 2001's Sunglasses At Night, he has been able to combine his love for popmusic with his roots in the early 80's electronic movement with house and techno. Often dubbed as one of the pioneers of techhouse, his DJ-sets bring another edge not always found on his records. After the critical acclaim for his steps towards popmusic on his last album he decided to give that side of his music a project of its own, free from the preconceptions his name might bring for an album.

Jerry Valuri is a music afficionado with a history in collecting records and DJing in Finland dating back for more than 15 years. Although he has kept always a low profile, those in the know are aware of his wide range of musical knowledge and enthusiasm on the subject. In 2003 he supported Jori Hulkkonen on a German tour providing improvised vocals on top of Hulkkonen's DJing. Processory is his first serious venture into writing songs.

Hulkkonen and Valuri met in 1996 although it's doubtful either one could foresee at the time they might end up making music together.

Processory sets its goal to bring together classic popsong features, but at the same time challenging the obvious verse-chorus -structures, and musically the borders between genres such as rockabilly and electro. 

Their selftitled debut album will be released on Playground Music, on February 14th 2007 on CD and vinyl formats.

http://www.myspace.com/processory
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Processory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.