PROFANE PRAYER was formed in September of 2005 by guitarist G, vocalist The Saint (Hordes of Decay) and drummer/guitarist THC (Hordes of Decay) - three musicians who took as their inspiration traditional Black Metal bands such as Carpathian Forest and Darkthrone, and decided to play their own brand of old-school Black Metal. 

JNK later joined the line up on bass, and PROFANE PRAYER started to rehearse the material that G and THC had written, and which would later feature on the band’s first demo. In March of 2006 drummer M joined the band, first as a session member to help out at rehearsals, and then on a full time basis. 

In July of the same year, PROFANE PRAYER entered the “Diagogi Kosmia” studios to begin recording the “Bloodred Fullmoon” demo. Consisting of four songs, the demo was mixed and mastered by Manolis Koutsakis, and was self-released on CD and Tape (limited to 150 copies).

In October 2008 PROFANE PRAYER finished recording their debut full-length album “Eye of Sin”. The nine-track album was recorded, mixed and mastered at the Basement Studios. Drums were engineered by Mark Cross (Firewind), whilst guitars, vocals and bass were engineered by George Bokos (Rotting Christ, Nightfall). “Eye of Sin” was mixed by George Bokos and mastered by Chris Tsoukalas (Basement Studios). Soon after, M and JNK departed from the band, and THC returned to take over the drums once again. The line up was completed by the arrival of Sick Mind (Hordes of Decay) on bass.

In March of 2009, “Under the Black Sun”, a track from the debut album featured on Terrorizer’s “Fear Candy: Unsigned” CD. The same year, the band starts its collaboration with Carpathian Forest’s Daniel Vrangsinn’s Misantrof Antirecords, that re-released the band’s 2006 demo as part of its Music Archives making it available for free download. PROFANE PRAYER also contributed the opening track to the label’s annual “Holy Fucking Antichristmas” compilation.

December 2010 the band sign a deal with Orkestral Promenade Productions and the release of its debut album is scheduled for early 2011.

On the 16th of January 2011, “Eye of Sin” is released through Misantrof Antirecords as a free download and Orkestral Promenade Productions on CD. After successfully supporting Impaled Nazarene in Athens, the band is currently planning a series of shows in Greece and abroad for the promotion of their debut album. 


PROFANE PRAYER ON THE WEB:
Facebook: www.facebook.com/profaneprayer 
MySpace: www.myspace.com/profaneprayer
ReverbNation: www.reverbnation.com/profaneprayer 
YouTube: www.youtube.com/user/profaneprayerbm

BAND CONTACT: 
email: profaneprayer@gmail.com
Tel: 00 30 210 8025 023 

ORKESTRAL PROMENADE PRODUCTIONS:
Contact: opproductions@hotmail.com
http://www.myspace.com/orkestralpromenadeproductions

MISANTROF ANTIRECORDS:
http://www.misantrof.net/

DOWNLOAD LINKS:
“Eye Of Sin” (2011): http://profane-prayer.misantrof.net
“Holy Fucking Antichristmas” (2009): http://antichristmas09.misantrof.net
“Bloodred Fullmoon” (2009): http://profaneprayer.misantrof.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Profane+Prayer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.