There are many band named Profane:

1) Profane from France
- black metal

line-up:
Necrose - Vocals, Bass, Piano (Black Dementia)
Bestial - Guitars
Namaroth - Drums (Griffar, Skar (Fra))

2) Profane is also a Death Metal band from The Netherlands  1989 - present 

line-up:

Jacco van Gelderen - Bass
Wolter Steijn - Guitars
Edwin van Wingerden  - Guitars
Johan Klomp - Vocals 

3) Profane is a drumfunk artist Daniel De Perio based in Toronto, Canada.
http://www.profanebeatz.com




4) Profane from England

line-up:
Phillip Bretnall - Vocals 
Luke Bhatia - Guitar 
Mark Doyle - Guitar 
Darryll Clarkson - Bass
Steve Rooney - Drums

Profane are a metal band from Manchester, England. After some years playing in various music projects, long time friends Luke Bhatia and Phillip Bretnall joined forces and committed to working towards their shared musical vision. Their task was intentionally ambitious, and the next year was spent searching out three like minded musicians taking influences from all areas of music, with the ultimate goal of making a truly original sounding band.

Profane’s vision has always been to create heavy, melodic and yet above all challenging music. The preliminary but albeit rough recordings went on to receive Metal Hammer Demo of the Month in May ’05 and this alongside a busy gigging schedule saw the band’s profile increase dramatically.

In January ‘06 Profane independently released the debut album ‘The Day We Scorched The Sky‘ through Gizeh Records to widespread critical acclaim.

This lead to airplay on the Radio 1 Rockshow, XFM and Total Rock Radio. The band was also honoured to come third in Radio 1’s Ones To Watch For ‘07.

In 2006 Profane continued with a steady gigging schedule which included an appearance at Uxfest (Islington Academy) and the Bulldog Bash. Profane have supported (amongst others) : Life of Agony, Gwar, Enter Shikari, Skindred, Will Haven, Million Dead, Winnebago Deal, Oceansize, Breed77, RagingSpeedhorn, Bring Me The Horizon, Amplifier, Biomechanical, Converge, 27, burst, fiveCRP , Shai Hulud, Send More Paramedics, Gay for Johnny Depp, Architects, Johnny Truant, Starkweather, Horse the Band, Caliban and Ministry.

June 2007 saw the re-release of ‘The Day We Scorched The Sky’ with new tracks and bonus material. The band helped put together new label Rebel Assault Records and the album was released along side a major promotional campaign. Interviews with band members aired on Radio 1’s Rock Show and Total Rock Radio, and the band went back on the road to promote the re-release of ‘scorched.’ That month profane had the honour of travelling down to Radio One’s Maida Vale studios to record an incredible live session for the Rockshow, the band were floored by the engineers comment ‘that they were the best British band that he had done since Sikth,’ and July saw them embark on a hugely successful tour with Danish metal kings Mnemic. The bands live show had now evolved into something to behold.

These shows garnered even more positive press from the music press, with features have appearing in Metal Hammer’s ‘incoming’ section, and Rocksounds ‘Exposure’. 2007 looks like it will end on a high for the band, with features in Kerrang’s ‘Introducing…’ section, Big Cheese and Rocksound, and dates with Will Haven and Enter Shikari.

Profane’s unique brand of Progressive-Metal refuses to be pigeonholed by the music media; seamlessly blending intricate jazz melodies with ferocious, technical playing. Having already made clear their intentions with a stellar live performance on Radio One’s Rock Show, Profane are here to turn the metal world on it’s head. The Band are currently writing the follow up to the Debut album which will continue to further explore the diversity and capabilities of this incredible band.

In a scene of superficial bands, Profane are here to define the term “progressive”.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Profane">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.