PROFETAS was born in 1997, when three mc’s, two of them colombian, Pablo Fortaleza, J Bovir and american Real One decided to bring effords together to develop a musical Project which presented a new proposal, in music and lyrics as well, for the growing hip-hop wave in Colombia. As of the moment two of the artists left searching for individual projects and the Incoming female talent, the new formation of year 2000 is consolidated. PROFETAS is ever since a duo formed by Antombo Langangui, central-african singer living in Colombia, vocal leader of the group, and Pablo Fortaleza, african-colombian mc, who directs the duo and writes most the songs. PROFETAS plays with tradicional african sound (brought by one of the singers and some guest musicians) and also, the sound in this group has been influenced by latin music, African-colombian and african-caribbean sound (such as reggae and dancehall). Such influence adds to the outstanding hip-hop energy, making of PROFETAS one of the most attractive and innovating proposals in national musical field. In the year 2001, after having worked with some young talented collective groups in popoular neighborhoods in Bogot.., they formed ADN, a project in which artists with no economical resources gather their efforts to show their music. The project involved the recording of two documentary productions and several concerts in neighborhoods and bars around the cuty. In this very year PROFETAS was invited altogether with AND to the hip-hop festival held by District Institute of Culture and Tourism of Bogot..,. Right after this successful presentation, El Tiempo newspaper pointed them as best-new of the show. Since then, the group has taken their music through bars, squares and parks all over Colombia holding a number of concerts some to highlight such as the one in the Centro de Convenciones Gonzalo Jim..nez de Quesada in 2002, in some activity dedicated to capital fashion. They were also invited twice (2004 and 2005) to Fete de la Musique in concerts held by the French Alliance in Medellin. Furthermore, they participated in Dance Hall night of the reggae Festival in Colombia in it’s 2005 version, with well-known artists such as Junior Reid (ex Black Uhuru). They also took part in Rastazo and Hip Hop al Parque festivals. In 2006, they participated in ALIKA and PABLO MOLINA (TODOS TUS MUERTOS) concerts, as well as in HIP HOP FESTIVAL in SOACHA.They were also invited to come with MAD LION in his tour around Colombia, taking part in the selected group of national and international artists who participated in FIESTA DE LA MUSICA (fete de la Musique) organized by the French Alliance in Bogot... Their talent and effort has been of help for this young group to work with important artists of hip hop at international level, such as the widely known New-York singer Afu-Ra and The Pervert Monks, the Californian Main Flow, The French group Le Front Verval, Raszcals (Canada) and the already mentioned Junior Reid (Jamaica), Dj Will (Germany),TRIKY TUNES (England) Doctor Kr..pula, Alerta (Colombia) and some other groups friends of the hip hop genre, as well as Ska, reggae and Colombian music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Profetas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.