Biography:

The band was formed in 2003. The original group, made up of the drummer Paolo Lastrucci, the bass player Lorenzo Fini, the guitarist Orlando Perri, immediately tended to create music of its own under a progressive-rock influence.
Afterwards a new element joins the group, the pianist Claudio Bianchi, who brings the group the technical and compositional experience they need.
The real growing of the group comes in the spring of 2005 through the replacement of the guitarist Orlando Perri with Tullio Forteleoni and the entry of Giovanni Valente ( from a well-known cover band ), a singer with a rich Live experience.

The group, complete with the five members, starts to work on the first lyrics in a recording study of its own, passing through a very good formative period that produced the recording of a first demo cd in 2005.

The lyrics included in the first cd are: ProgressiveXperience pt.2, No despair, Short essay of the Universe, Involution
Soon after the group begins to play in various places of the sorroundings of Prato near Florence arousing a considerable interest both in the public and in the experts, getting good results ( third ranking in Anomalia Contest 2006, Black out Contest 2006, Officina Giovani in Prato ), besides the many previous Live experiences of each member both in contests ( Suoni nella notte, Cencio's Contest, Keller Contest...... ) and in performances in the province of Prato ( Mulligan's and others ).

Because of personality misunderstanding in the Spring of 2006, the collaboration between the band and Forteleoni ends. The group in order to reach a more personal sound and a greater number of listening public,
decides the entry of two new guitarists Marco Giovannetti ( music master at the Lizard Academy in Florence) and Francesco Munaò.
The group, now made up of six members, starts re-arranging the “old” lyrics and the composition of new ones, even thanks to the fresh ideas of the new members and, without disregarding the lyrics influenced by literary sources (being an important element of the production) in the Summer 2006 the band enters a study to record the first official cd, entitled “X”, containing 10 songs.

The group has now finished the phase of recording, mixage and mastering at the studies of “Sonoria Recording Plant” in Prato and a first run of 3.500 copies.
The genre and the musical influences

The group began writing music under a wide range of “progressive” influence and not only, drawing inspiration from artists like Genesis, Rush, Crimson, Pink Floyd up to Dream Theater, Steve Vai, Queen, Toto, and greatly influenced by classical music.
The aim is to create a kind of music technically elaborated and very accurate in the sound, in the composition, in the harmonization and above all in the musicality but which, at the same time,
can reach everyone ( trying not to enhance the bravura of the single, except in some specific instrumental pieces) and able to be of easy listening.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Progressivexperience">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.