Project: Roenwolfe was founded by members of the Masters of Metal forum, Tony C. (Vermiform, Judicator, Sedulity) and 'Patrick Hoyt' Parris (ex-Theocracy) with  help and support from Bryan Edwards (ex-Seven Kingdoms, Vermiform), in late 2011. 

The idea of PRW came together within minutes after a discussion between Tony and Patrick about the lack of time to invest in keeping a live act together and running. When the idea started solidifying there was no question that Bryan Edwards would play a key role in the creative element and process that it takes to put a studio effort together, including lending his vocal talents, production ideas, and experience from his and Tony's other studio project Vermiform.

2012 marks the musical debut of PRW as they finish up the process of completing the first original set of demo songs. The music was written and recorded by Tony, The lyrics and vocal concepts were written and arranged by Patrick and Bryan with help from Camden Cruz (Seven Kingdoms, Camden Cruz Entertainment [CCE]) on Alchemic Design and Reoccuring Dream. 

In consideration of the busy schedule of Camden Cruz with his band Seven Kingdoms, Patrick took on the responsibility of recording his own vocal parts and Cameron Allen was recruited in from the Masters of Metal forum for his exceptional talents to mix and master the remaining demo tracks and will be staying in the producer chair with PRW for future endeavors.

The PRW Demo track listing includes songs: Born of Rage, Reoccuring Dream, Alchemic Design, and Abstractions of Independence. 

PRW is best classified as a metal collaboration. We refuse to be thrown into a genre within a genre. We represent OUR vision of what metal is to us. The purpose and classification of music is what the composer makes of it, and we plan to make music that we enjoy first and foremost in hopes that others will equally enjoy the efforts we have made. 

PRW will feature not only the founding members, but will seek out other talented musicians for guest spots and solos.

Project: Roenwolfe is a Masters of Metal Production in collaboration with Pathfinder Promotions of Atlanta Georgia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Project:+Roenwolfe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.