Prolific  is  a  superstar  and  multi  talented  musician  and  extreme  sports  athlete  from  the  United  
States.  Whether  it's  rocking  Top  40  clubs,  Electro  Parties,  B-boy  Jams,  Tablist  Routines,  
Microphones,  Drum  and  Bass,  Trap,  or  Dubstep  assault,  
Prolific  is  moving  the  crowd  with  profound  turntable  routines,  intricate  lyrics  and  original  tracks  with  a  unique  assortment  of flavor  from  his  self  maintained  imprint  FOULPLAYRECORDS  and  affiliate  artists  and  labels.

Prolific  developed  his  tablist  technique  around  such  talent  as  Dj  Klever,  Immortal,  Danny  the  
Wildchild,  Shotgun  (Formerly  of  Goody  Mobb),  SPS,  and  various  other  talents  in  the  southeast.  
His  level  of  skill  over  time  matured  into  a  much  more  powerful  force  which  led  to  many  wins  at  local,  regional,  and  national  battles  in  the  USA  from  the  Dmc’s,  guitar  center,  DMA  magazine,  and  this  past  year  he  is  coming  off  of  his  3rd  win  defending  his  title  yet  again  at  CLUB  LAVELA  "the  biggest  night  club  in  the  USA"  Prolific  has  shown  his  tablist  skills  ar
e  polished  and  ready  for  anyone  in  his  way.

His  hip  hop  project  the  “Nonstopkrooks”  (Hiphop)  for  years  saw  prominence  in  the  
underground  hip  hop  scene.  After  years  of  focusing  more  on  Electronic  Projects  Prolific  has  
decided  to  unsheathe  the  microphone  and  regain  his  respect  as  an  Urban  Action  Figure.  The  
Nonstopkrooks  albums  features  major  artists  like  Goretex  and  Sabac  formerly  of  Nonphixion,  
Killah  Priest  of  Wu-Tang,  C-­rayz  Walz,  Copywrite,  Butta  Verses  of  de  la  soul,  Louis  Logic,  Sean  Price,  A-Plus,  Critical  Madness,  and  Big  Lo  to  name  a  few.

Prolific’s  sets  are  always  smoking  hot  and  he  is  infamous  for  rocking  huge  crowds  all  over  the  USA,  Europe,  and  the  Middle  East.  Prolific  is  officially  endorsed  by  Rane,  Urban  Dwellar  
clothing,  ILLStar  Rebel,  Durte  Vintage  Laundry,  BBOYWORLD.com,  Hiphopelements,  and  
Madclout.  He  has  worked  for  scratch  academy,  B.E.T.,(Dj  battle/host)  NBC  (Dj  for  Winter Tour)  and  various  other  major  corporations  which  prove  his  talents  and  dedication  to  staying  
on  top  of  his  DJ skills,  business  demeanor,  and  lots  of  hard  work  for  the  love  of  music  and  
everything  that  is  real.

Prolific  has  toured  with  some  of  the  biggest  names  in  EDM  and  hiphop,  throughout  2010  and  now  into  2012  Prolific  has  teamed  up  with  the  legendary  producer
and  tablist  RAW  aka  6blocc  and  have  been  touring  globally.  Together  they  have  toured  the  entire  USA,  Canada,  Australia, Europe,  Russia,  Ukraine,  and  Belarus.  Their  live  performance  is  only  described  as  the  most  elite  live  show  with  the  combination  of  live
rap  sets,  turntablism,  and  all  original  dubstep  tracks mixed  with  a  hip  hop  flavor  which  are  self-produced  or  unreleased.Also  Prolific  has  toured  
with  GEIN  (Butcher)  for  two  weeks  in  Europe  and  the  Middle  East.  Prolific  is  set  to  continue  
smashing  dance floors  and  crowds  on  a  worldwide  basis.  It's  not  every  day  you  see  someone  
murder  the  decks  with  insane  tablist  skill  only  to  pick  up  the  mic  and  rock  a  live  hip  hop  set.  As far  as  hiphop  in  ’08/09  he  toured  the  USA  with  Kosha  Dillz,  Butta  Verses,  and  C-rayz  Walz  on  three  separate  tours  reclaiming  the  stage  with  his  mic  skills  and  battle  routines.  Also  he  shared  the  stage  with  Legends  like  Zardoinc,  Dj  Lord  from  public  enemy,  Treasure  Fingers,  Mayhem and  many  more!  In  2013  Prolific  continued  to  destroy  crow
ds  globally  headlining  major  shows all  over  the  USA  and  Europe.

Prolific  is  also  the  CEO  of  FOULPLAYRECORDS  which  releases  a  wide  array  of  genres  which  
primarily  consist  of  Drum  and  bass,  Dubstep,  Electro,  Hip  hop,  and  Tablist  compositions.  
Prolific  has  attained  Triple  Vision/ST  Holdings  (UK)  for  the  Drum  and  bass/Dubstep  
distribution,  Domination  (Boston)  for  the  Hip  Hop  distribution  and  I.O.D.A./Sony  Music  
Entertainment  Inc.  (San  Francisco)  handles  all  of  Foulplay’s  digital  distribution  and  is  known  as the largest  independent  digital  distribution  company  globally.  He  has  executively  produced  
over  500  tracks  and  been  featured  on  compositions  with  some  of  the  biggest  names  in  hip  hop and  various  genres  in  electronic  music.  Now  his  mission  has  become  a  reality
,  making FOULPLAYRECORDS  a  known  name  in  the  Drum  and  Bass,  TABLIST,  HIPHOP,  Dubstep,  Electro community  on  a  global  scale.  With  a  stacked  roster  of  elite  forces,  FOULPLAY  more  and  more everyday  is  getting  recognition  for  its  accomplishments.  From  Klever  th
e  2x  DMC  champ  to  the  drum  and  bass  producers  like  Raiden,  Mayhem,  Infiltrata,  Gein,  Mumblz,  Prodigal  Son,  EmpireX,  Spektrum.  Dubstep  producers  such  as  Claw,  6blocc,  Trillbass,  and  12th Planet  who  get  love  around  the  world  Prolific's  hard  work  and  team  of
musicians  bring  a  sound  and  style  that  is  as fresh as it gets.

Prolific is Trademarked by FoulPlayRecords Inc. 2000 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Prolific">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.