Several artists are using the name "Prometheus":

1. Producer Benji Vaughan aka Prometheus is one of Twisted Records leading trance acts. Along with Tristan  and Hallucinogen he forms the forefront of the international trance scene, playing gigs as Prometheus, and Younger Brother with Simon Posford all over the world, from Greece to Japan, Finland, Denmark, Mexico, and the USA. Benji has been making trance music under various guises since the early 90’s and has featured as Prometheus/Younger Brother on Twisted, Prometheus on Dragonfly and Cyberbaba’s with Raja Ram on TIP Records always making the most cutting edge sounds and taking trance into new directions. As a producer he has been branching out into the world of dance music in general, as Contraband for Backroom Beats and JUNK, a house outfit with Joe William’s from The Light/PFN who have been getting play from Sasha, Nick Warren, Steve Lawler, and John Digweed and all the big house DJ’s, remix work for EMI & Jive Records and producing a new album for The Egg. He has also won  several awards including a recent one from Sony for his soundtrack to a Nike advert.

It is his trance output however that he is most famous for even from his earliest single, ‘Clarity from Deep Fog’ with Process, right up to his latest, ‘Number Cruncher/ Snakes & Ladders’ in which Prometheus has shown his own imitable psy-style, dancefloor testimony to his skills in the studio and ability to move an audience. His sets at Samothraki dance festival in Greece and elsewhere have been the highlights of the event as in Finland and Japan recently where he played  to several thousands in Osaka and Tokyo. He has completed a new solo album of trancefloor music, with tracks like ‘Samothraki’, ‘Mekong Delta’, ‘O.K. Computer’, ‘Universe’, and ‘U.R. Beautiful’.

2. A Gothic Progressive Death Metal band from Stockholm, Sweden. Known release: "Visionaire Extreme".

3. A London progressive black metal band that released an EP in 2011, Of Embers In Darkness, as well as a 2009 demo, Hanged In Judgement. Their style is heavily influenced by Norwegian progressive black metal bands (late Emperor, Enslaved, Ulver, etc) as well as 60s and 70s prog such as King Crimson and Genesis.

4. Progressive Rock Band formed of Crafty guitarists Steve Ball and Sanford Ponder (that's crafty as in Robert Fripp's League of Crafty Guitarists). The sound of the band's only album is very unique, especially with the vocals by SB. There are hints of King Crimson and Rush. 

The album ends with a the 23 minute ambient piece.

Tracks:
Dark (7:00) / Sardukar (3:56) / Angst (5:44) / Enough's Enough (2:46) / The Policeman's Ball (5:23) / The Spectacle (5:13) / Orphan (4:33) / Assault On The Consensus (9:56) / Redemption (23:00)

Musicians:
Steve Ball - vocals, guitars, keyboards, percussion
Sanford Ponder - guitars, audio frame, percussion
Pat Mastelotto - drums, percussion
Nigel Gavin - bass, voice
Chris Rhyne - solo synth and organ
Steuart Liebig - bass

5. Dark Ambient/Drone project formed by unknown members from ARBE. "Landscapes for Nightmares" is their debut release. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Prometheus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.