1.DeShaun Dupree Holton (October 2, 1973 – April 11, 2006), better known as Proof, was a Detroit hip hop rapper and member of the rap groups D12 and 5 Elementz.
Although Proof first rose to national prominence as a part of the rap group D12, he had been fairly successful on his own. Most notably, he was featured in The Source's Unsigned Hype column in 1999 and came close to winning the 1998 Blaze Battle. His first television appearance can be seen in the Aaliyah video "Age Ain't Nothing But a Number". In 2000, Proof toured along with Eminem, Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg in the Up In Smoke Tour as a backup rapper for Eminem. He rose to prominence in 2001 with the release of Devil's Night, D12's debut album with Interscope Records. The following year, Proof collaborated with Dogmatic on Promatic and joined Eminem's "Anger Management" tour in support of the release. He also appeared in Eminem's semi-autobiographical film 8 Mile; although in the film the character based on him, Future, was portrayed by Mekhi Phifer, he appeared as Lil' Tic, a freestyle rapper who trounces the lead character with his battle verse.
On April 11, 2006, Proof was killed by a gunshot wound to the head at the CCC Club by Mario Etheridge on 8 Mile Road in Detroit, Michigan after fatally shooting U.S. military veteran Keith Bender Jr.
Proof was buried on April 19 at Woodlawn Cemetery, in Detroit to a full house of 2,000 with thousands mourning outside. Eminem and Obie Trice read eulogies at the service.

2. ProoF is a hardcore band founded in the summer of 2006 in Bucharest,Romania.Our first EP "Blood Money" was released in 2010 and we're currently working on our second material.We've shared the stage with Deez Nuts,Death Before Dishonor,Born From Pain,Ignite,Decapitated,No Turning Back,The Setup,Last Hope,Tonedown,Confronto,Burnthe8track,Manifestation,Bleed Into One,Subscribe,shows at festivals like Noisefun Festival - Arenele Romane,Bucharest Wheels Arena - Romexpo,Route68 Summerfest,Free Fest Ploiesti,Open Camp Vaslui,Mighty Owl Festivals and toured all over the country.


Official fb page: https://www.facebook.com/proofhc
ProoF - Final Judgment video : http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4mSrghnBqz
Discography:
- Blood Money (2010)
               

3. Nu-metal band from Orokovice, Czech republic.
._. we miss u proof <3 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Proof">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.