It all began in Assenede, a small town located north of Ghent in Belgium. Around 1998 two musicians met each other at a venue where they were performing each with their own project. It was obvious that they would collaborate in the same project called Propulsion. Not much later, in 1999, their first demo ‘No Angel’ containing 8 tracks was released. In that same year they were selected (out of approx. 250 bands) to participate in a contest together with several other bands for the Eurorock Sonic Seducer Festival at Neerpelt, which they finally won. In the summer of 2000 they played at the main stage of this festival. They released their first full cd named ‘Extended Play’ containing 11 tracks. 
In 2001 they were selected (out of approx. 600 bands) with 7 other bands by ‘Debuutrock’ as one of the best newcoming bands in Belgium. In April 2001 they played at ‘Vooruit’, an important venue where many well-known bands had performed before. With their track called ‘No Angel’ released on the Debuutrock CD, they had airplay on radio Studio Brussel (national ‘alternative’ radio). Many gigs followed all over, mostly, the Flemish part of Belgium and even abroad at Bladel (The Netherlands). 
In 2002, their next album ‘Flesh & Blood’ was released, containing 12 tracks. This album was nominated by ‘Dark Entries’ (electro/ebm/industrial magazine and internet site) as one of the best ‘Belgian’ electro releases that year! Side-Line (electro/ebm/industrial magazine and internet site) gave this CD an 8/10 score! Even after the good reception of this album, they realised they had to improve their recordings. A period of searching and researching arrived as also upgrading and updating their equipment was needed. And above all, they had to keep their ears and minds wide open, in order to absorb all kinds of music styles and sounds.This all resulted in their newest EP called ‘Mercury Skies’, three years after ‘Flesh & Blood’. Four tracks were chosen to give their listeners an idea of how Propulsion sounds today.
2012: compilation album ‘A Decade of Electronics’ in the pipeline. An album with remastered tracks, new songs, unreleased material, remixes and collaborations.
2013:
New album called 'DECATRONICS' finalised.
Release Date : 07-01-2013
Label : Mutant-E Records <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Propulsion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.