http://youtube.com/phantommaster
http://myspace.com/prophecywithin

Prophecy Within is a progressive rock/metal band from Cork, Ireland. They began in the summer of 2008 when bandmates Barry Wilson (drums) and Ben Deloughry (guitar) of the now defunct metal band Forbidden Son formed a three-piece instrumental project with bassist Hugh Deloughry (brother of the guitarist) with the intention of covering music of various progressive rock/metal bands. By August they began experimenting with some original riffs and ideas, which would become their first original instrumental track ‘The Storms Relent’. These writing sessions showed a compatible and dynamic writing chemistry between the three and it was soon decided to pursue this as a proper band, adopting the name ‘Prophecy Within’.

They immediately began promoting their music via the internet, and the next six months saw the writing, recording and filming of six more original instrumental demos as well as covers of music from bands such as Metallica, Rush, Mastodon and Dream Theater.

By the summer of 2009, Prophecy Within had built up a very supportive fanbase online through their music videos on YouTube (their channel currently has approximately 800 subscribers) as well as on MySpace, Facebook, Last.fm and Bebo, and through various online music forums, where they continue to grow and obtain great support and feedback from across the globe, and have often been requested by foreign fans to play some shows in their countries in the future. They have also gained recognition locally, having played several small gigs in local venues.

With a well-received eight track instrumental demo under their belts, the decision was made to do these tracks justice with professional production, and in September 2009 they entered a local recording studio to begin recording their debut album ‘Weight of the World’. A professional multi-angle video was filmed in a theatre with a lighting engineer for ‘Cloudburst’ in December 2009 as a promotional release. Their debut 4-track EP ‘Weight of the World - Part 1’ was released in May 2010 for free download on Last.fm and has received a great response on their websites and various music forums.

This summer Prophecy Within will be joining forces with a keyboardist. They are confident that they will continue to grow as an instrumental band, but are open to the possibility of working with a vocalist in the future should they find one suitable to their style.

Prophecy Within continues to write and record demos, cover other artists and play local gigs, and is currently planning to play some shows around Ireland and further afield in the near future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Prophecy+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.