There are four bands with the name Protocol:

1)  A British pop group, formed in 2005 and split in 2006. They consisted of:

John Pritchard, lead vocals 
James McMaster, guitar 
Steven Oates, bass 
David Malik, keyboards/synthesizers 
Dom Joseph, drums 

They were produced by Mike Peden. The five-piece knew each other for four years before starting Protocol, as well as running Vanity, their own London-based club night. Protocol toured with New Order, Fisherspooner, The Bravery and Hard-Fi amongst others, as well as playing slots at the Wireless and V Festivals.

The band were signed to Polydor, but were dropped in April 2006 after disappointing sales of their first two singles, 'She Waits For Me' and 'Where's The Pleasure?'. The band had a third single, 'Love Is My Drug' planned, but it was shelved. Due to the fact that they were dropped, their album, 'Rules Of Engagement', due for release in Summer 2006, never materialised. Copies of these songs can be found online.

After being dropped, they continued to tour, counting celebrity fans like Debbie Harry and Tracey Emin amongst their supporters. However, with a lack of support from Polydor, Protocol announced their split on November 23 2006.

John Pritchard and David Malik have recently reemerged in the music scene in 2010 as a duo, The Bang Bang Club.

2)  A three piece Thrash metal outfit straight from Canada's metal capital Montreal.  Formed in mid 2008 with members Alex Glass (guitar, vocals), Evan Brown (drums) & Carlo Cininni (bass).  Playing their first show February 1st 2009 at club soda the band has been gigging extensively ever since and has proudly shared the stage with the likes of Vindicator, Fatality, Aggressor, Psyopus & Cattle Decapitation. Protocol embodies the true old school thrash sound.

3) A fusion jazz band led by drummer Simon Phillips.

4) A hardcore punk band from Tallahassee, Florida <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Protocol">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.