1) Hard Dance DJ from Finland
2) Progressive metal band from Croatia
3) Extreme metal band from MA, US
4) minimal techno from UK


1) DJ PROTEUS (DJ - FIN) :

Real name: Harri Andersson
YOB: 1977
DJ Proteus official homepage

Proteus has gained the respect to be called Finland's most known Hard Dance DJ. Proteus has been DJ'ing for 10 years in his home country, where he first started to play at free underground parties. At that time nobody played styles like Hard NRG and Hardtrance in Finland, so Proteus and a couple of his friends decided to organize underground parties, where they could play their own sound.

Proteus and his friends have been the key figures in creating the Hard NRG and Hardtrance scene in Finland. From 1998 to 2005 Proteus gained continuesly more and more success in Finland playing all at all major club and events like Säde, Laserpoint,Rush, Labyrinth, Hallmark, Millennium, Fantasy, Storm, Vertigo, Pacifique, Trancehouse meets Lab-4, Celebration Generation, Reactor, Turbulence and Koneisto.

The biggest achievement for Proteus so far in his career has been the Hard Dance Awards 2004, where he was voted "Best Hard Dance DJ" in the world by clubbers all around the globe, leaving such legendary names as Lisa Lashes and Yoji Biomehanika behind him. In the DJ Mag`s 2004 Top 100 DJ list, Proteus was voted number 90 and made history in becoming the first Finnish artist making it to the Top 100 DJ list alongside Darude. In Septembers Mixmag issue Proteus was placed as number 3 in Top 5 Hardest djs in Mixmag's article about "40 hardest records ever". In his career so far Proteus has had gigs in Finland, United Kingdom, Holland, Australia, Japan, Switzerland, Germany and Estonia.

In 2000 Proteus gained a permanent residency at Logic (Fridge, UK) and has taken the UK by storm with his hard, fast and energetic style, spiced up with technical tricks like scratching and backspinning and his infectious stage shows. Proteus has created the dj set to more show kind of experience with special clothes, make ups and equipments like masks and whips.

Proteus has played and headlined all the major events in UK like God's Kitchen's Global Gathering 2005 which is the biggest dance festival in UK, Creamfields Festival 2005, the massive Hardhouse Academy at Brixton Academy, Antiworld, Lab-4's Laboratory Experiment 2, Tidy Summer Camp, Tidy Magna Revolution, Transmission at Alexandra Palace, Frantic, Lashed, Slinky, Polysexual, Goodgreef, Bionic, Helter Skelter, Bulldog Bash, Heat vs. Logic, Logic, Tranzaction, Eyecon Dance Academy, Atomic Energy, Ying Yang and Seed to name a few. One of the most important and special gigs for Proteus in UK was his gig at Torture Garden on New Years Eve 2001. Torture Garden is one of the world's biggest and most famous fetish and kinky clubs.

2004 and 2005 has been the busiest years for Proteus so far, with gigs and achievements most DJ`s only can dream about. The highlight of his career so far, was his set in August 2004 at Dance Valley`s 10th Anniversary in front of 60.000 people in Holland. Proteus played the closing set at the spectacular HQ arena. In Holland Proteus has also played at Dance Valley 2005 also at HQ arena and again for 50 - 60.000 people, at the massive Dance Valley Winter Edition, Impulz Inside and Impulz Outdoor festivals for 25 000 people. Proteus has also performed at HQXL party, HQ club in Amsterdam, Defcon 1 Festival, Matrix, Nightlive and Beachpop.

Year 2004 Proteus signed a contract for Holland and other Benelux countries with CB Bookings, which is UDC's (Dance Valley, Impulz, HQ) own booking agency and a contract for UK, Australia and New Zealand with Queen Of Clubs management.

Proteus has also been busy in the studio recently and his first release Kevin Energy & Proteus: London Helsinki Underground reached position 17 on Finland`s single list after the first week and was voted the best single of the year 2004 in the Finnish Club Awards 2004. Proteus has also just released his second single Metal from Dutch label HQ and the third single Venla is released September 2005 from Finnish label Teflon Bullet. In Spring 2005 Proteus released his first album mix cd "Hard Nrg - The Hellfire Club" also from Teflon Bullet. Proteus will concentrate more in the production in the future.

As well as being a DJ, Proteus and his friends are also running their own clubnight called Säde in Helsinki, Finland. They have organized many very successful club nights in a period of over 5 years. Säde was voted as The Best Club in Finland in the Finnish Club Awards 2003. Proteus and his friends are also organizing an industrial event called Inferno and an underground fetish clubs called Tuska and Hellfire Club. 

PROTEUS has been voted the BEST HARD DANCE
DJ IN THE WORLD for a second year a row in the
HARD DANCE AWARDS 2005 by clubbers all around the globe!

2) Proteus is a progressive metal band from Split,Croatia.

    Band members: Ratko Letilovic(vocal,violin)
                                   Antonio Milina(guitars)
                                   Marko Pazanin(guitars)
                                   Goran Milic(bass)
                                   Zvone Reljic(drums)
                                   Luka Androya(keyboards)

Their musical influences are Opeth,Katatonia,Cynic & Mastodon.
                                  

3) PROTEUS (USA) :

A 4 piece extreme music ensemble from Massachusetts, US. Their music is a unique sub-genre, smashing combinations of brutal slam-ridden grooves, withering technicality and gut wrenching emotion. Their full-length debut CD "Personal Narrative Of Cognitive Dreamscapes" came out December 25th, 2007.

Myspace.



4) Proteus U.K.

real name john witts
released on Tegleg Records <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Proteus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.