There's more than one artist with this name:

1. Spawned from the American Hardcore scene, the Parisian band Providence emerged in 2006. Within this time, the band had made a solid name for themselves in the hardcore community. With ferocious intensity and a lot of heart, Providence has toured Europe with well known acts such as NYC legends Madball, 25 Ta Life, Nueva Etica, Shattered Realm, CDC and many other heavy hitters. This vigorous approach to making a name in life and music certainly paid off. Providence was approached and agreed to lay their tracks to wax with the highly regarded underground London based label Rucktion Records

2. Providence is a groove metal band with crust, hardcore and deathcore influences from Mumbai, India.

3. Providence was a punk band from Melbourne Australia, who released an album in the Early 90s called South East Of Syracuse.

4. Providence was a six-piece music group originally from Boise, Idaho, but later based out of Portland, Oregon, USA, circa 1971—1974. The band was made up of six members: Bob Barriatua, electric bass, vocals; Bartholomew Bishop, lead vocals, piano, harpsichord, organ, autoharp; Jim Cockey, violin, glockenspiel, vocals; Andy Guzie, guitars, vocals; and brothers Tim Tompkins, cello, vocals, recorders, percussion, and Tom Tompkins, viola, vocals, occasional violin.

The style of the group was decidedly soft rock with dominant classical influences, particularly in contrapuntal instrumental interludes by their string trio and in broad vocal harmonies that followed strict rules of voice-leading.

Their greatest accomplishment came when The Moody Blues, seeking to expand the roster of their fledgling label Threshold Records, signed Providence to a recording contract. They managed one release, Ever Sense the Dawn (1972), before parting ways. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Providence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.