There are two artists with this name:

1. Russell Gilbert Llantino (born October 13, 1993), better known by his former stage names D-Pryde and Dukke, is a 27 year old producer/writer/rap artist. Born in Mississauga, Ontario, the son of Rosalie Llantino and Gilbert Llantino, and is of Spanish and Filipino decent. Three years after his birth, his father walked out, leaving Russell, his older brother Gabriel, and his mother alone. Russell never saw his father again when he was growing up, and neither did his older brother Gabriel. He had moved to Brampton with his mother and brother to pursue a new life. Two years later, as a small child he had been exposed to West Indies music by his step father Frank Ravello, who had come in his life, not a moment late. As a young child, he became interested in hip-hop, performing and lip singing to artists such as Biggie, 2pac, and Eminem. Around the age of Ten Russell had found the ambition to rap, and was under the name “ Dukke Wonder “ and joining the group “ Young and Fresh “ around 2005, where his first song was released. Within the community, he frequently participated in neighbourhood freestyle battles.

Through he would later struggle with the nature of his small fame, as well as lyrical expectations, D Pryde endured substantial obstacles throughout his young yet remarkably dramatic entrance into the rap game. Before becoming one of the most discussed Asian figures in hip hop, being compared to Asian rappers such as Jin the Emcee, D-Pryde had suffered through hatred and harsh critics which the public eye had given him. Entering the hip hop game, D-Pryde had been exposed to negative messages and comments, which pulled him out of the game for a while. Not knowing what he was putting himself into, he decided to take a break and learn the story behind Hip Hop. Stepping back into the game in the summer of 2007, he is experienced and ready for anything, following his goal to be in the rap industry, hoping to make it one day.

2. A French Power/Progressive Metal Band that formed in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pryde">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.