Simon Rahm started composing electronic music in late 1991. Although already getting his first record deal offer in 1996, it was in 2001 he got his first official release; a vinyl EP on the Swiss experimental electronica label Domizil, followed up the next year by another two vinyl releases, one on Swedish breakbeat label Sound of Habib, and on on Swedish tech house label Q-Records.

In 2003, Simon founded a collective of electronica artists, called The X-Dump, which later also became a netlabel and a physical label. The following year, he co-founded and helped to organize a chiptune live club in his native Stockholm, Sweden, called Microdisko, which turned out a big success.

In 2006, after numerous releases on netlabels, such as Monotonik, Kahvi Collective, 8bitpeoples and Candy Mind, Simon released his first CD album, "Psilodumputer", in strictly limited quantities, on a small Swedish label, Ninjani Diskus. Shortly after, Simon was inspired to set up his own label, called 476 Records, where he released his second CD album, "Never Heal".

Later, the same year, Simon got signed to Demon Tea, and began working on his third album, "The Nya Albumet", to be released in spring 2009.

Simon has done remixes for artists such as Kraftwerk, Slagsmålsklubben and Bodenständig 2000.

Simon has diligently been performed his music live since 1996, at both big commercial and underground rave-parties, clubs and cafes, festivals, culture events and demo parties. To date, he has covered about 120 gigs, in 15 different countries, including France, Germany, UK, Russia, Italy, Israel and Spain - alongside artists, acts and DJ's, such as Neil Landstrumm, Chris Liebing, Cari Lekebusch, Thomas Krome, Infected Mushroom, Slagsmålsklubben, Bit Shifter and Kleerup.

In Sweden, he has performed at notable festivals such as Peace & Love 2008, Norberg Festival 2008, Arvika Festival 2005 and 2002.

http://www.psilodump.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Psilodump">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.