There is more than one artist with this name.

1) Psychonaut is a three-piece post-metal/sludge band from Mechelen, Belgium. Together, they create a whole of atmospheric riffs and rhytms where feeling the music with all senses instead of only the ears is a guiding light.

As for a description of their music, one could say that they create a mix of trippy, psychedelic influences along the lines of Pink Floyd combined with the heavier influences of bands like Tool, Amenra and Sleep. The power of their songs lies in the variation between these two main anchor points and by toying with these sometimes paradoxal energies, they generate the PSYCHONAUT experience.

http://psychonautband.bandcamp.com/ 

2) Influenced by psychedelic experiences and meetings the trance-project Psychonaut was born. It consists of two members (Dr. Balser, Lothar H.), which started making music in the early 90's. They released some tracks on Trance-Compilations like Goahead, Planet Goa, Chakra etc. The first album-CD came out in september 2000 called Vol.1 (Velvet-Inc.). 2nd Album "Antagonistic Pathways" released in 06/2002. Psychonaut played since 2000 on many live gigs all over the world.

3) Psychonaut was a Czech rock band. It was founded in Opava, Czech Republic in early 1999. The band released three albums: "Pásmo krátkých písní" (2000), "Zeměven" (2001) and "Jsem tady" (2004) and disbanded at the turn of 2007 and 2008.

4) Psychonaut is a group from Birmingham, England who play alternative electro using dirty beats and scuzzy guitars.

5) Psychonaut is a band from Perth, Australia who play a mix of Thrash, Heavy and Speed Metal
Who list there influences as Mercyful Fate, Loudness, Motorhead, Black Sabbath, KISS W.A.S.P. & Slayer. The band has a classic metal & rock sound with lyrical themes such as Star Wars, Hammer Horror and Sci Fi.

Official site found here http://www.psychonaut-au.com/wordpress/

6)Psychonaut was a ritual ambient project formed in 1997. Changed name (and musical style) to Psychonaut 75 in 2001.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Psychonaut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.