THERE ARE 3 BANDS WITH THE SAME NAME.

1. Psychopath (USA) is a three-piece death/thrash metal band from St. Louis, Missouri.  Though their debut, "Making The Transition" was released in October of 1991, according to the album credits, it was actually recorded in August of 1990.  This makes it one of the earliest releases to successfully combine death, thrash and progressive Metal elements, resulting in a sound all its own.  Lyrically, songs vary from science-fiction to societal, real world issues.  Upon its release, Making The Transition may very well have been hindered by its production and lack of worldwide distribution, but is steadily gaining support and listeners due to the internet age and the realization of its importance in the post-80's - early 90's metal landscape.

2. Psychopath (UK) are a real band. Not a very good band. As a matter of fact, they're an atrocious band. Few who have hear their cover version of 'A Day In The Life' will forget it in a hurry. No, nor sleep without the light on either. When you wake screaming in the night, it is PSYCHOPATH you have heard in your dreams.

The band was originally conceived in 1976 by Tim and Clive as a kind of bad joke, and it has seemed funny to them ever since. Most of the early recordings of the band have been lost to a grateful posterity, but with the advent of digital recording techniques, it is possible to make CDs on which the band can be heard clearly - paradoxically, this is both the virtue and the great disadvantage of the bloody things. PSYCHOPATH gigged around the university circuit on the north-west of England until they became well enough known to be refused admittance, and then the band lapsed into twenty years of desuetude (look it up!). In about 2002, Tim came up with 'Don't Let's Play The Hard Songs Anymore' and realized that he needed to exhume the corpse of PSYCHOPATH, and they have been more active since then than they ever were before. Their first new CD was 'Hull Or High Water' in 2003, which was a critical and commercial disaster, and thus represented something a high point in their career. Since then there has been a compilation CD: this was to have been called 'The Best Of PSYCHOPATH', but that implied rather a short album, so instead it rejoices in the name of 'The Least Worst Of PSYCHOPATH'. It is commercially available to those deranged enough to give it houseroom.

3. Psychopath is also a Polish Thrash Metal band formed in 2008.  3 Full Length albums have been released by these Speed Thrashers. 2009 - Compulsive Submission, 2011 - Avaritia, and the freshly released Hatred Outside in 2015.

4. Psychopath is a Maltese one man black/speed/thrash metal band, influenced by old school thrash and first wave black metal. They released their first album, titled "Teratogenesis", in February, 2020. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Psychopath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.