Psychemagik is a UK DJ / producer duo of Danny McLewin and Tom Coveney. They débuted with with 12" Running To My Life (2009).

They are known for their sensational disco and psychedelic edits, obscenely vast record collections, beautiful production work and transcendent mixtape journeys, are being heralded as a truly unique and positive presence in today's music scene.

“Fucking Brilliant” - DJ Mag

In 2010 they released an edit of Fleetwood Mac's 'Everywhere', which quickly found its way into the record bags of veterans like Tom Middleton and Greg Wilson, and instantly cemented their place in the disco music world. The duo have since released a string of highly acclaimed edits, original productions and remixes.
They regularly play at major festivals, clubs and special events all over the UK and Europe – with tours in the USA and Australia set for 2013.

"An ear for mind-expanding dance floor mysticism" - FACT Magazine

Their studio output is prolific to say the least, Valley Of Paradise, the first single from their debut album, sold out on pre-orders and was followed by a slew of incredible remixes from the likes of Greg Wilson, Time and Space Machine, Toby Tobias and Rayko and received critical acclaim and airplay worldwide. Recent remix projects include Azari & III, Metronomy, Kraak and Smaak, Crystal Fighters, Yacht, Time and Space Machine, The Egg, Skinny Lister and The Cuban Brothers.

"Remixers du jour" – Mixmag

And then there’s the edits. Their recent version of Fleetwood Mac’s ‘Dreams’, a follow up to ‘Everywhere’, topped the Hype Machine charts and has been gaining some serious props from around the globe. They have also released a string of edits on their Healin’ Feelin and Discotheque Wreckers imprints, all of which have made it into the Juno top sellers list.

Their mixes paint the story of two extraordinarily talented and passionate guys. Some blatantly show that Psychemagik can absolutely dominate a dancefloor. Others, like their guest mixes for the Test Pressing podcast, are gorgeously composed psychedelic experiences, which give you an idea of just how deep and amazing their record collections really are. Basically, you can bet that they have the perfect record for any time and any place.

"Perfectly deconstructed Hot Chip's sound for their support slot…Fantastic" - Songkick

They also have a reputation as the go to guys for mega rare records you won't find anywhere else. Their satisfied customers include 2 Many Dj's/Soulwax, Chemical Brothers, Q-Tip, Fake Blood amongst many others.

It is this incredible ear for musical treasures and their dedication to the art of digging that has lead to the success of their recent compilation, Psychemagik Presents: ‘Magik Cyrkles’ on Leng Records, which sold out worldwide on vinyl within 48 hours of release and went to straight to number one in the Juno bestsellers chart on CD. With a wealth of upcoming releases and their debut studio LP just around the corner, they've already set the controls for the heart of the sun and will be heading into a whole new stratosphere of magical output in 2013.

"Spectacular ...such class and style" – KCRW


Management: andy@movmanagement.com

Bookings:
Europe / ROW: matt@thepool-london.com
USA / Canada: chad@bondmusicgroup.com

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Psychemagik">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.