Psychedelic Porn Crumpets is an Australian psychedelic rock band formed in 2014 in Perth. Members include Jack McEwan (guitar and vocals), Luke Parish (guitar), Danny Caddy (drums), Luke Reynolds (bass), and Chris Young (keyboard), who began playing together in "an old horse barn in rural Leederville". They have self-described their sound as "an energetic mess of colour and tone". 

Concerning the reasoning behind the name of the band, its members have given little explanation. The band claims it was chosen at random because they thought it was amusing. The word crumpet may be unusual to some, as it is a traditional English food described in the Cambridge Dictionary as "a small, round type of bread with holes in one side that is eaten hot with butter".

Members:

Jack McEwan is the band's vocalist, main songwriter and the member credited with being the main pioneer behind the band. Born in the 1990s, he and the other band members are of the millennial generation. After the release of the band's record label, Jack is the member of the band who told the press that the idea for a record label had been around since the conception of the band, and that its creation was "only a matter of time".

Jack grew up in England, where his passion for music was kindled both by his father and through playing in bands from the age of nine onwards, before the family migrated to Australia at the age of thirteen. He also has a degree in graphic design, which he uses in creating the band’s artwork.

Luke Parish is the lead guitarist for the band. He is also a semi-professional skater, sponsored by Soggy Bones, having transitioned into the sport from surfing. He has been quoted stating that his biggest influence on the guitar is David Gilmour of Pink Floyd.

Danny Caddy is the band’s drummer. He played with Jack McEwan in a band prior to the formation of the Psychedelic Porn Crumpets.

Luke Reynolds was the band's bass player.

Chris Young plays the guitar/keyboard for the band in the songs that require the instrument.

Peter Coyne is the band's back-up drummer. He used to be lead but after a wrist injury during his NRL season with the St. George Illawarra Dragons, he was placed into back-up.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Psychedelic+Porn+Crumpets">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.