In 1996 Duston Bullard was asked to join a band called “Laid To Rest,” a four piece metal outfit. Within a few months he learned all their material, and just as they were ready for shows the guitar player, and the vocalist decided to leave due to personal differences, leaving Duston, and drummer Damon Smith to seek out other avenues. Duston (at the time doing bass/backing vocals), and Damon began the hunt for musicians. They quickly added guitarists Brad Calkin, and Kevin Cochran, and shortly after introductions, Shawn McCormick was added to the line up as lead vocalist. Duston brought the name “Psychomancer,” to the table, and it was then in 1997, that they began to write, what would be their first demo album, “Amidst The Smell of Rotting Corpses.” It was recorded in 1998, and never released, but the songs had many listens as live performances. Shortly after the recording they parted ways with Damon, and filled the spot with Rob Lawrence, moving forward. 2000 saw them back in the studio to record their first official release, a six song, self-titled, EP signed onto “Cursed Productions.” Through the next seven years they played many venues, all over the United States; until finally they hit the studio again in 2007 to lay down tracks for the first full album, “Butchered By Me,” which was signed onto “Rotting Corpse Records.” Throughout that time much band turmoil had been occurring causing members to leave, and to be replaced by many talented individuals, who didn’t work out. Eventually, all the drama led to the band splitting ways in 2011. In 2012 Duston, the original founding member, decided to rebuild the band that he loved so much, and dedicated so much of his life to, that the others had abandoned. In 2013 after a few try-outs by more talented people, some that didn’t work, the band was finally formed with Corey Blackstad (drums), Curt Hutchison (guitar), and Duston Bullard taking on full vocal duties, along with bass guitar. Duston had contemplated changing the name to save some confusion, and feelings; even though he found it, and liked it. He asked Corey, and Curt, and they assured him that it was ok because it was his name, and they liked it, and had no problems playing under it, and it was nothing other bands hadn’t done. Psychomancer was back, and ready to write again. They reentered the studio with all new material, and finished up the fourth cd; a six song EP, “Inject The Worms.” The band couldn’t be functioning better, and all the prior tensions seem to be obliterated. They are back to playing shows on a regular basis. Psychomancer is now a well-calibrated machine, and a beast ready to take down the castle walls.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PSYCHOMANCER">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.