The band Psychogod formed in late November 2009 when Dank (guitar) and Cristina (voice), have decided to start a metal band which approaches an aggressive metal sound, but at the same time modern, combining styles like hardcore, death metal, black metal, industrial metal and groove metal.
      The first concert took place in May 2010 with the Brazilian band Krow and other Romanian bands like DinUmbra, Korruption. Later, the band performs in the company of familiar names in the Romanian underground: Code Red, Deadeye Dick, Deliver The God, Vepres, White Walls, etc.
      In September 2010 the band opened the concert for the British band Furnaze at Silver Church. At this event the first live official material was recorded, the video song "We Are Not".
      In December 2010 the band have parted ways with keyboardist Nicu and gave up to use the keyboards in favor of a more brutal sound provided by the second guitar. In January 2011, Mausy (guitar) joined the band.
      Psychogod was awarded the following by fans votes: second position for the "Best Romanian metal newcomer 2010" on the biggest rock and metal site in Eastern Europe: www.metalhead.ro.
      March 2011 brought the band's participation in the first tour, called ‘Metal Woman Tour’ with the band Infected Rain from Moldova republic. This tour brought the first concert tour abroad Romania, in Chisinau (Republic Moldova), followed a few months by two other concerts in Ruse (Bulgaria).
      After few formula's modification, the musical style is heading for a mixture of death metal, metalcore, hardcore, thrash metal. 
      In June  2012 Psychogod played on the main stage of OST FEST 2012 with Overkill, Exodus, Dimmu Borgir and Motley Crue.
     In October 2012 the band released the first album called "Alone that contains eight tracks. The album received good reviews from local and abroad metal media (Germany, Hungary, Mexic, UK, etc).     
      At the beginning of 2013 Cristina (voice), Dragos (bass), Andrei (drums) left the band being replaced by Sabin (voice), Emi (bass) and Traian (drums).

Current Line-Up:
Silviu - voice
Daniel - guitar
Andrei - guitar
Stefan - bass
Gabi - drums

*Check out: www.psychogod.ro <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Psychogod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.