Public Service Broadcasting is a London, England-based pseudonymous musical duo consisting of J. Willgoose, Esq. on guitar, banjo, other stringed instruments, samplings and electronic instruments; and Wrigglesworth on drums, piano and electronic instruments, formed in 2011.

PSB's uniquely spell-binding live AV Transmissions see them weave samples from old public information films, archive footage and propaganda material around live drums, guitar, banjo and electronics - beaming our past back at us through vintage TV sets and state of the art modern video projection devices.

PSB released debut single, ROYGBIV, to the masses in March 2012. The single won the Rebel Playlist on BBC 6 Music (the first of the band's 4 victories in the publicly-voted Rebel Playlist in 2012!) and was on the receiving end of a 5* review in Artrocker magazine.

Next came The War Room EP in May 2012. The EP included BBC 6 Music favourites Spitfire and London Can Take It, both of which became mainstays on the daytime playlist, as well as receiving multiple plays on XFM, BBC Radio 2, & Absolute Music. Live sessions with Gideon Coe (6 Music) & John Kennedy (XFM) followed. The War Room received 'CD of the Week' in the Independent on Sunday and has sold over 40,000 copies to date.

Fresh from the success of The War Room EP, Public Service Broadcasting set their sights on the summit of Everest which was swiftly followed by single Signal 30 (link) which preceded their hit debut album Inform - Educate - Entertain (May 2013). The album received rave reviews from fans and critics alike and firmly established the band. 

J. Willgoose, Esq. and drumming companion Wrigglesworth have teamed up with Studio Canal Plus to adapt the 1953 feature-length documentary ‘The Conquest of Everest'. The stunning film was shot by expedition member George Lowe, and recounts Hillary, Tenzing et al’s successful ascent of the tallest mountain in the world. 

In 2015 PSB followed up on this success with another critically-acclaimed album The Race For Space which they launched in February 2015 at 2 special shows at the National Space Centre – the album went on to chart at #11 in the UK album charts and spent a further 4 weeks in the Top 40, selling over 50k copies in it's first 5 months. Singles taken from the album include Gagarin, Go! and The Other Side. The band have since been on a globe-trotting tour promoting the record with tours in Australia, New Zealand, North America & Europe - including a sold-out UK tour finishing at The Roundhouse in London. Brixton Academy is next on their hit list – a very special show is planned for 29 November 2015

Artrocker: “Genuinely original, innovating and amazing” 

Janice Long, BBC Radio 2: “My new favourite band”

The Independent: “They blend the voices of the past with the music of the present to astounding effect”

Tom Robinson BBC6: “Absolutely sensationally brilliant”

http://publicservicebroadcasting.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Public+Service+Broadcasting">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.