Pulmonary Abscess was founded at the beginning of 1989. Three friends: Edwin Kruize (guitar), Bert de Groot (drums) and Jordi Bergboer (bass) started this band just for fun. After a while, when Jurgen (guitar) joined the band, things got more serious. The intention was to play death/thrash metal. At the end of 1992 the first demo “Branded For Life” was released, and a few local live-performances were done. After a while Jurgen and Jordi decided to leave the band because of musical differences. In February 1993 Bas van de Griek (guitar) joined the band. Later in that year they released their second demo “Definition Of Torture”, which was well-received. After a year vocalist Paul Wormgoor was added. More live performances were done, and not just locally this time.

Just a few weeks before recording their third demo “Slave Of Darkness” in october 1994, Floor Wolters (bass) joined the band. After many live performances throughout the Netherlands, Bas and Floor got an offer from the dutch metallers Genetic Wisdom and they accepted.

Pulmonary Abscess found replacements in Jordi Bergboer (bass and former ex-member) and Marijn de Zeeuw (bass). The style changed a little, because two bass-players were involved. With this line-up, Pulmonary Abscess: became second in the Pro-De(m)o contest of Atak Enschede, won first prize in the Eastern Metal Battle in I’Varca Lichtenvoorde, played twice at the “Slingepop” festival in Borculo before about 400 people each time, performed live on Radio Oost and did numerous club concerts.

Around May 1998, Jordi Bergboer decided to play another style of music, he founded the hardcore band Con-Crete and left the band. Ronald Wensink, who had already played with the band a few years earlier, filled the gap. With this line-up they created their first promo CD named “Depths”. Depths contains 5 songs of brutality, melody and old-school heavy metal in one. It got very good critiques in advance. After the release of the “Depths” promo CD, Pulmonary Abscess performed a lot in the local clubs in the east of the Netherlands.

Meanwhile, Edwin Kruize and Marijn de Zeeuw were also performing as musicians in Solarisis, a melodic death metal band from Enschede, who had just released their debut CD “Holland Is Made Of Tofu”.

One year later Paul Wormgoor decided to leave the band. Marijn became the new vocalist and this 3-man line-up did a number of gigs. During a concert in Enschede, Deifecation guitarist Iwan Heskamp noticed their love for the old thrash metal and was eager to do a try-out as guitarist. The band knew him from his work with Solarisis and after some practice sessions he joined the line-up. After rehearsing for 2 months Pulmonary Abscess performed with bands such as Extreem Eczeem, Pulverizer, Pentacle, Exposing Innards.

In December 2001 Pulmonary Abscess entered the Ground Zero Studios in Zutphen to start recording a full length CD. The official release date of “The Greedy Illness” was set on the 14th of november 2002.

After the release of “The greedy Illness”, lots of performances were done in Holland and Germany to promote the newborn release with bands like Tankard, Houwitser, Officium Triste, Thanatos a.o. This took a year and a half.

In August 2005 the band recorded the song ‘Assault at objective 666’ esspecially for the second EHBO CD. This CD would take almost two years to get to the public. In February 2006, Iwan decided to leave the band due to the need of more spare-time. The band decided to go on as a trio. At the moment the band is writing new material and adjusting the existing material to fit for a threesome. Some shows already were done in 2009.

Because of distance and lack of personal time Bert decided to leave the band. Pulmonary Abscess decided to split up in Januari 2010. 

In Oktober 2013, after a concert of the mighty Annihilator, Marijn and Edwin talked again to reform the band. Bjorn van Toorn offered the drum spot and we took it ! In November 2013 the band started to rehearse. 
In December 2013 Bart de zeeuw took the spot on guitar for double mayhem. 
In February 2014 Thijs de Zeeuw took the spot on vocals so Marijn can concentrate on bass-playing !
Plans for 2014: Rehearse a set-list, writing new songs and do the occasional gig ! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pulmonary+Abscess">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.