Behind the project Pulsedriver is Slobodan Petrovic Jr. The congenial 31 year-old started his DJ career in 1990 in clubs in Northern Germany, playing a number of different styles. Rapidly he fell for a fascination of house, techno and trance. Particularly trance gave him the energy and motivation to master the difficult initial phase.

Through the experience he gained, he developed a need to produce his own records, to immortalize his definition of trance on vinyl. With this he progressed from dj to producer.

In 1995 came his first release 'Aqualoop - Twilight Zone'. The single quickly turned into a true club anthem. Further releases under that name and other club projects followed the great success of the first release.

In November 1997 the project Pulsedriver is brought to life. Under this name a new definition of innovative trance is established: a harder, more pushing and kicking trance. The single 'Pulsedriver - Rhythmic Trip' wakes up the international club and rave scene and the following releases 'Timemachine' and 'I'm Rushing' turned Pulsedriver into a permanent club act.

The single 'Kiss That Sound / Something For Your Mind' brought the commercial success. Sensational dance chart rankings are followed by the entry into the German charts for the first time with the releases 'I Dominate U', 'Take U High' and 'Your Spirit Is Shining' the way to the top goes up and up. The single 'Cambodoa / Recycle' succeeded in all official european charts: for example No. 11 in Germany and No. 5 in Austria.

Until now he released 12 Pulsedriver Singles and 2 Pulsedriver Albums and all of them have entered the official charts.

His innovative style as Pulsedriver gains him the awards of best German remixer of the year 2002 & 2003 and helps turn him into a guarantor for club hits. His remixes helped artists like Kim Wilde, Milk Inc., Lasgo, Vengaboys, Brooklyn Bounce and Fragma to new success in the charts.

The Pulsedriver sound with its fast pace described a new music style: 'Trancecore'. Under this name Slobodan puts together lots of compilations that were hits with the international clubbing and raving scene and helped to continue his success.

At the beginning of the new millenium, to give his ideas, productions and experience their own platform, he started his own label 'Aqualoop Records'. It is now one of the most successful independent record companies in Germany with more than 20 entries in the official charts.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pulsedriver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.