Pulverized was born in late December of 2000, before that, Pulverized used to be a project band lined up by Alfonso ARTGORE (Former Vocalist of Pyphomgertum) on Vocals and Lyrics and Marko Guevara (In that time Vocal/Bassist of Prohibitory) on Guitar, Bass and Drum programs, for several things the promo Murderous Desire for a Non Innocent Flesh never saw the Light, therefore Pulverized remained inactive and probably dead. 

A few months later Marko Leaves Prohibitory, and make a call to Frodo J. (Former Guitarrist/Vocalist of Goretrocity) and Ivan Rueda (Session Guitarrist of Prohibitory) and they make that Pulverized becomes in a serious band, later on Humberto Valverde on Drums, and then recorded The Gift of Decease Promo that contains 3 intense tracks. 

Live shows increased over time, full of ferocious death metal power, leading the band to share the stage with the Greatest bands across the world, like Morbid Angel, Cannibal Corpse, Suffocation, Exhumed, Vital Remains, Malevolent Creation, Rotting Christ, Pandemia, and the best from Mexico like Disgorge, Cenotaph, Anarchus, Under Moonlight Sadness, Pigsty, Warcrusher, Ravager, Hacavitz and many more. 

Pulverized got a deal with The Art Records for the Debut album and they created Spheres of Depraved Philosophy for the First Strike. After the recording some internal problems bestow death into the Original Line Up, Humberto (Drums) and Ivan (Guitar), quit the band for personal matters, and soon, from the Old Order of Death Metalheads, Armando Mondragon (BlackThorn/Esoteric) joins the band on Drums, giving new air to the Musical horizon of the band, also from the Thrash band Lust, Urique Quiñones join as Lead Guitarrist, keeping Pulverized alive and Active. Now the band is working on his new material, leading the Intensity and Bizzarre, meanwhile, theyve recorded the promo advance 2005 that contains 4 new tracks. 

In 2005 the Spanish Label Voliac Records put on targen the Album Spheres of Depraved Philosophy for the European Edition, for this will realize an European Tour, visiting France, Belgium, Germany, Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia, also the band was invited to play on the most important festival in Mexico Monterrey Metal Fest with Motorhead, Wasp, Danzig, Hammerfall, Jag Panzer in the Coca Cola Auditorium on Parque Fundidora in Monterrey, Mexico.

MEMBERS:
Marko - Vocals, Bass (ex-Prohibitory, Denial)
Rob - Guitar (Katana, Denial)
Ray - Drums (Katana)
Urique - Lead Guitar (Lust, ex-Genocide)

DISCOGRAPHY:
Spheres Of Depraved Philosophy - Full-length, 2002

LINKS:
http://www.myspace.com/pulverizedband
http://www.asphyxiaterecordings.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pulverized">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.