Years in the making, the metal band Punish Them has left the security of the studio, and burst into the life of live performance.  This long awaited entry into the performing scene has ensured that Punish Them will establish themselves as a formidable musical force.  Rocking out of Chatham, Ontario, with metal music in their souls, the guys from Punish Them have been working persistently to redefine the hardcore melodic thrash metal scene, establishing their sound as a genre of their own.  

The five piece band could be considered one of the closest knit groups to be playing in recent history, which only adds to the perfection of the live performances.  The members have been long time childhood friends, and have all learned each of their instruments rocking out together. The back-beat for their music comes from the mind of Brady Krzemien, the powerhouse, playing with authority on his Mapex© kit.   Jordan Ginty, with his Jackson and Sustaniac™ pickups, is responsible for the deafening solos and trademark squeals heard in every Punish Them masterpiece, with Kyle Merrit and Mike Gregory supplying the complex rhythm to complete the picture.  
Punish Them had rocked for five years, playing as a cover and instrumental band, perfecting their sound and awaiting arrival of a capable front man worthy of performing with the mindset that was necessary for the group to progress.  As eagerly anticipated, the members of the band were fortunate enough to be introduced to such a vocalist, a fellow hometown friend by the name of Brandon Kellam (a.k.a. Kemp).
Now, being led by a vocalist who can deliver his message as though from the depths of hell himself, and a soloist whose licks and squeals would terrify even Jack the Ripper, Punish Them has only begun to reveal their talents.  Being backed by a rhythm more epic than the Crusades, and a drum line so powerful it registers on the Richter scale, the front men will have no trouble delivering their message of punishment.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Punish+Them">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.