There are multiple artists named Pure:

1) Pure was a power electronics trio comprised of Matthew Bower, Alex Binnie, and Alex Winsor. Like their friends Ramleh, they used guitars instead of synthesizers, as favored by Whitehouse, to create their confrontational wall of noise. According to the members of the band, there were never any official releases of music by Pure, aside from a handful of compilation appearances. After the break up of the group, Bower formed the new project Total, and Binnie joined Zos Kia. During this time, Mark Durgan of Birthbiter asked Matthew if he could release material by Pure. Matthew did send him some solo material (basically Total recordings) which were then issued under the Pure. However, these were not representive of the original group or its sound, and is a Pure release in name only. Years later, in 2007, Freak Animal Records released the actual record under the same name that it was released before by Birthbiter, "Fetor", but this time with the original tracks.

2) Pure was a Canadian alternative rock band, founded in Vancouver, Canada in 1991. Previously, the band was known as After All and Grin Factory. Signed to the Reprise label, the band reached a greater audience once their song "Greedy" was featured on the soundtrack album Songs from the Cool World. They later appeared on Shag Records and Mammoth Records. They were nominated for a Most Promising Group of the Year Juno Award in 1993, but they lost to Skydiggers. Pure's song "Tennis Ball" was featured in the movie BASEketball, though not featured on the soundtrack. The band was somewhat notorious for its occasional themes of recreational drug use and carefree attitude, resulting in at least two music videos being banned from airplay on MuchMusic, one of these videos being "Anna is a Speed Freak". The group disbanded in 2000, citing "musical differences".

The band's original members were:
Jordy Birch - vocals (new project is Guilty About Girls)
Todd Simko - lead guitar
David Hadley - bass guitar
Leigh Grant - drums; replaced by Jim Hobbs in 1996
Mark R. Henning (Combine the Victorious) - keyboards; left the band in 1995

Discography:
1992 - Greed (ep) - Reprise Records
1992 - Pureafunalia - Reprise Records
1994 - Generation 6 Pack - Warner Music (Canadian Release)
1995 - Extra Purestrial - Shag Records
1996 - Generation 6 Pack - Mammoth Records (US release)
1998 - Feverish - Mammoth Records

3) Peter Votava, aka Pure / DJ Pure, is a Viennese electronic musician, formerly of the duo Ilsa Gold.  Has releases on Mego, his own dOc Recordings imprint, and other labels.

4) DJ Pure is an East London dubstep / grime producer.

5) Pure is a Dutch artist that goes by the name of Sandra Vitasovic. At the age of 17 she recorded her first song titled "Straight From the Heart" featuring Dutch rapper Snake-Eyes.

6) Pure is a collective group of artists residing in (F)Whittier, California. Pure started as an idea by the main founder Fernelly Ceria and has spread to become more of a movement, to be spontaneous, in expression, to be pure in art and life.

7) Pure was a Dutch rock band from Castricum. They started in 2003 but split up in 2005.

8) Pure is a group from Jakarta, Indonesia. Released "Forward" in 2009. Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/puresite

Members:
Yolanda Theodora Wijaya - vocals
Yohan Christian Dhirmanto - vocals, acoustic guitar 
Andri Yosua Latip - acoustic and electric guitar 
Albert Ishak Wijaya - bass 
Billy Christianto - drums 
Thirza Paramitha Henry - piano, keyboards

9) PURE (Pulmonary Urban Reborn) is a stoner metal band from Indonesia.

10) PURE is a Raw Black Metal band from Lausanne, Vaud, Switzerland

11) PURE is Raw Blackened Punk band from Russia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.