Like a fine blended moonshine of backwoods country soul, homegrown jams and the rhythmic prowess of a Santana/Allman Brothers like rhythm section, Pure Grain’s roots infused sound continues to defy genres or categorization and has earned them props with country, jamband, and classic rock fans alike. From southern fried rock to raw funk, country hooks, and bluesy soul, Pure Grain delivers high energy live performances straight from the farm fields and rolling hills of their hometown, Bright Indiana.

Pure Grain features the eclectic vocal and guitar stylings of Scott Siefferman, the driving percussive force of Michelle D’Amico and Brian DeBruler, coupled with the funk aspects of bassist Tony Nasser, rounded out by the soulful powerhouse vocals of Courtney D’Amico.

“With a flawless blend of southern soul, funky Jerry Reed-style country, and old school blue collar rock, Pure Grain is the real deal. These guys and gals have created their own unique sound that will appeal to music fans of all stripes.” – Adam Sheets – No Depression Magazine

These are good times for Pure Grain. Releasing their first music video, “Truckin Song”, on youtube stirred up a buzz that had them featured on Sirius/XM Outlaw Country, Road Dog Truckin and Americana radio stations across the country. “Truckin Song” is now the theme song on Dave Nemo’s highly popular Road Dog Truckin Show on Sirius XM. The video, now at 600,000 views and growing, has received airplay on the major and regional networks, and also commanded the #1 position on the Yallwire.com Top 100 for over 16 weeks.

Pure Grain’s upcoming release “Indiana Sun,” due out in summer 2014, is to be the bands’ most realized recording to date, truly capturing their personalities and live vibe on CD. The disc which was recorded in the bands’ own studio and produced by legendary producer Bill Halverson(Eric Clapton, Cream, CSNY,) features 11 tracks, 8 of which were written entirely by the band. Keeping with their adage of supporting local music, two tracks were written by local Indiana songwriters and close personal friends, Jay Tucker, and the late Clint Walston. Pure Grain also covers “Hurricane” originally recorded by Levon Helm, that is a favorite for fans at their shows. All songs are written from the heart and are true to life accounts of their experiences and feelings as interpreted by the band. The band will be touring in support of the release throughout spring and summer of 2014..

Pure Grain has toured nationwide with fans hailing from all parts of the country. They regularly perform at festivals, state, and county fairs as well as club dates, and have opened for Hank Williams Jr., Confederate Railroad, Little Big Town, Zac Brown Band, and and even jambands like Rusted Root, and JJ Grey. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PURE+GRAIN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.