All music is available for download here: https://sites.google.com/site/purgamentummetal/

It all began in spring 2002 when Krasse put out an ad looking for fellow musicians to form a death / thrash / black / whatever extreme metal band. First recruited was "bassist" and growler Johan. Next a guitarist who knew a drummer reported an interest, both for himself and the at the time unknowing drummer. The same week a vocalist called and the line-up was complete. Now, all that was missing was a rehearsal space and after a brief search that was solved. So it began...or should have. Parts of the band did not show up as often as needed. The band was put on hold during summer and it was decided that we needed to find a drummer, vocalist and guitarist due to lack of time, commitment and evil.

But the Gods of fortune smiled upon the remains of the band, and Jakob - a drummer at that time disguised as a guitarist - was delivered. Though originally hired for guitar duties, his outstanding skillz as a drummer were quickly revealed and he was chained to the drum kit (and been so ever since). After months of practising in the shower Krasse mentioned at a rehearsal that he might start screaming full time. And so he did. Now for that final piece of the puzzle, a second guitarist. A few were tried out. And then he came; Linus - the gentleman with the red beard. After having various obscure names such as Gaysuckers and Gaycore, Purgamentum saw the light of day in fall 2002.

From the start the ambition was to write own material and so they (mainly Krasse at the time) did. The material was watered out with various covers to fill the rehearsals. And so it went on during almost a year until the start of summer 2003 when the band felt comfortable enough with the material to enter studio TBV in a near town to record the Deathenchanté demo which was recorded in three (3) days. The demo was well received and not before long a US record label contacted Purgamentum to let them know of their interest in signing the band. After negotiations back and forth a contract of two (2) album was composed (but not signed yet...). The contract includes one EP and one full length album.

In addition to write and rehearse some more material for the upcoming EP the future plans of Purgamentum is of course to perform live and live the glamorous life as death metal musicians.

The band broke up in late March / early April 2004 as band leader Jonas moved to Stockholm because of a job. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Purgamentum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.