In times where image seems to be the main attribute of a band, even more important than the music, the industry makes up new drawers for categorising and merchandising the music. Metal, Emo, Hardcore, Nu-Metal, Crossover, Metalcore for just entiteling a few. Keywords that show the developing of new (sub) cultures in a scene with usually the same basics. The subcultures have some differences but the same ambition: Presenting hard Rockmusic and inspiring the scores. Either you like it or not.Purid from Osnabrueck belong to that kind of bands that don´t care about trends and while writing their songs don´t even think about reefs beeing Thrash or Emo. The most important thing is the achievement and in the case of PURID this way developes songs which strain the spines of the consumers due to their abrasiveness but also persuade with melody, feeling and emotional depth. Wrapped in a modern soundrobe, straight in your face, with high recognition value. Contemporary Rockmusic without beeing a trend-maniac; that´s how it is meant to be. The first thing you heard from PURID was a demo CD with 6 songs in 2003 after guitarist Nico and drummer Marc launched the band because of the seperating of their former band ENOLA GAY and the will not to be lazy. By playing this songs on local concerts they received a good feedback and the people got to know the Band quite well. After a few changes in the Line Up the band is gleaming in a new shine in 2005. In the last two years the band concentrated themselves on writing new songs. By presenting a few songs as supports for ITCHY POOPZKID; EMIL BULLS or MR.BROWN they could show everyone their possibilities. Having fun, communication with the audience and of course lots of energy are the main elements of a great PURID show. In 2007 PURID is ready for releasing their new CD „My own worst enemy“. Which contains 6 songs and hopefully will leave a good mark both at fans and press as well as agents of the record companies…..

http://myspace.com/purid <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Purid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.