Purple City, a long-time Dipset/Diplomats affiliate, has built a red-hot mixtape street buzz over the last several years. Purple City's core members, Shiest Bub, Un Kasa & Agallah "The Don Bishop",have released over ten mixtapes which have established a bona fide, worldwide, cult-following.

Jim Jones took me to a lot of label meetings and taught me how to flip the street game to the rap game, because there is a difference. I'll always be a Diplomat and Cam'ron also taught me a lot about the game but Purple City is mine,' says Shiest Bub, Purple City Entertainment's CEO.
 
Purple City, (also known as 'Purple City Productions', 'PCP' and 'The Purple City Bird Gang') is also infamously known for flashy, trend-setting fashion statements. 'It all started on my block (158th & Broadway) I was doin my Purple Piff thing and of course always doin my flashy fashion thing and everybody was trying to get that Purple Piff. So I started Purple City Productions and putting out mixtapes on the streets. And then the Purple City movement spread to the whole Washington Heights and Dyckman areas of Harlem, then all of New York City and then around the world. I been rockin Purple. That's what I'm known for. New York is the mecca of fashion so of course anything we do is gonna be followed. It's more than just a color though. It's a state of mind its vibrant, its freedom and royalty', says Shiest Bub.

Babygrande and Purple City will release three albums in 2005. The video for Purple City's first single, 'Purple City Bird Gang' featuring Jim Jones is currently airing on BET. 

Ruddy Rock, who Executive Produced Jean Grae's last two releases, will A&R the joint-venture on behalf of Babygrande. Purple City is also participating in an international concept album entitled 'Paris to Purple City' which will feature collaborations with some of the top up-and-coming artists and producers from Paris, France.

'Purple City and the entire Dipset movement, have firmly established a new independent and very commercial genre of hip-hop music. The Grand Canyon that used to exist between major labels and independents has been reduced to a mere crack in the sidewalk. Independent hip-hop, as recently as a year ago, had the perception of being only for back-packer, underground music. With Jim Jones selling over 150,000 copies and the Diplomats selling over 50,000 in the first week, this perception has been shattered and the Purple City Bird Gang is next,' says Babygrande's CEO, Chuck Wilson.

Wilson, who co-wrote 'Soul Plane' for MGM, is currently working with the Creative Artists Agency in Hollywood to develop a Purple City feature film and video game. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Purple+City">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.