It all started as a project the name Pharmacist sometime in 95 or 96 in the composition 
Kokes (tub), Marunič (gajtra) and Petrouš (vokanál). After a few tests, however, 
Singer Petrouš start his own project Purulent Spermcanal in which the 
couple of weeks passed and the remaining members of Pharmacist Kokes and Marunič. 

In a few months natáčíme first demo "Hawi Balavu, which is based in 1997 
the first album. After the release of this album comes Staník bass. In four we 
played a few gigs again zalézáme the studio. The result is the second album 
"Legalize for Cannibalism", which appeared on the market in 1998. Almost 
We also based on the vinyl "Sperman" - split with the Australian SP 
Viscera. 

Following the achievement of us leaving singer Marek Petrouš has been replaced by Roman 
Janečka (former singer Social Deformity). Romano begin to play a real 
gore-grind, comes the first concert abroad (Warsaw - PL), and many 
concerts all over our country. After the constant "battle" between the Roman and the rest 
band singer finally leaving in 2000. Kokes taken on vocals with a Maruničem 
we are shooting in three other album "We Pity We Did not Kill You All". 

Plate advocating several concerts, a few of them appeared as a singer Milan 
(Olač) which is now in the grunt Carnal Diafragma. We neuchytil However, we 
play again in the next three and natáčíme material "Sufficient Disgust", but which 
based until late 2002 as a split CD together with Polish Coffee Grinders  
(ex Dead Infection). 



Dates the second half of 2000, and guitarist Mark appears in the pub 
squeaker Bushmen, who promises to cooperate with the microphone and really becomes 
fourth member of the band. In the stable group (Kokeš - tubs, Marek - gajtra, 
Staník - bass and Bushman - cry) travel at the festival "Obscene Extreme 2000 in 
Trutnov. Autumn 2000 Bushman at hand for the battle, which of course does not prevent him 
sing with us at every concert. In addition to concerts plodíme next three, 
However, flirt a lot with hardcoreovými punishment and we feel that we can 
instead of making a real big beat ruckus. 

After returning from the army Křováčkově him acquainted with the new songs, new sound 
(we call it "gourmet gore grind rock"), closing to the rehearsal room and we practice and 
sawmill. In June 2002 we start recording material for new album. Shooting is 
suspended our participation in "Obscene Extreme 2002 in Trutnov, where new material 
"Tested on humans" ... Emboldened by positive feedback, we return to the studio and 
subsidies album "Have the Munchies', which is published in January 2003. 

In autumn 2002 shortly after the completion of recording the last album from us, unfortunately 
leaves Staník. Now I play again in four, in December 2002 we added an 
New bassist John (ex Punishment). All winter and spring, we trained hard in the spring 
We played a few test concerts in Ostrava and its surroundings. Now, finally 
can say, "Come and listen to us !!!". More in the section SHOWS. And 
we have another new year, says 2006 and begin to do it again 
burrito, take in another guitar (Jano Sroka) and new bassist (Peter Hutin) also 
changed its name to Have The Munchies.
Current line-up:
Jarek - Vocals
Maro - Guitars 
Honza - Bass
Kokes - Drums
Former/past member(s):
Vocals:
Petrous 
Roman Janecka
Miláno 
Bass:
Stanley
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Purulent+Spermcanal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.