Purusam is a swedish band, formed in 1994 and disbanded in 1998. Its technical hardcore metal incorporates elements from both genres, alternating between shouted male vocals and clean feminine ones. It’s marked by the elaborate instrumental parts, by the heaviness intertwined with melody and lyrics that shift between poetry and fury.

The first formation is composed by Jon Brännströmm (vocals and guitar), Fredrik Holmstedt (drums) and Johnny Johanssen (electric and acoustic guitars). Anna-Lena Svanborg (vocals and bass) joins the band in the sequence.

The first recording is the 1994 demo “Fade”, that finds its way to Desperate Fight Records, which releases the four track EP “Outbound”, in 1995.

In 1996 the first full-length album, “The Way of the Dying Race”, is released. After that, Brännströmm leaves the band and joins Refused. Tobias Willig takes over the vocals and Mikael Forsgren takes over the second guitar. Other sources say Bränströmm had already joined Refused in 1994.

In 1997 the second full-length, “Daybreak Chronicles”, is released. Soon after, Mikael and Anna-Lena leave the band, being replaced by Mattias Lindmark and Lena Andersson.

The band’s last recording is a 7’’, “Of Light and Darkness”.

* Band name context *

The word “purusam” comes from the sanskrit “purusha”, which means the universal spirit. The vedic (hindu) gods are seen as differentiated representations of that spirit, which the human mind creates.

* Analysis *

Inspired by the title of the band’s last recording, “Of Light and Darkness”, it could be said that the two full-length albums express that contrast. “The Way of the Dying Race” is connected to darkness through the greater aggressiveness, felt both on the instruments and lyrics. “Daybreak Chronicles” is connected to light through the greater mellowness and search for beauty. However, both elements are always present, one backing up the other.

Some fans don't understand the reason why Purusam is so unknown to a wider scope of metal and hardcore listeners. The band's quality is perceptible to anyone that enjoys the combinations of those genres. Perhaps, in the future, the band could be rescued from obscurity, letting a larger audience enjoy  its sound. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Purusam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.