There are five Artists with the Name 'Push': A Belgian DJ, a two-piece band from Portland/San Diego, the band Push, the other band Push and an old soulgroup (no description available, but you can find it on some soulsamplers) with the same name.

Push (not to be confused with the band) is a pseudonym for popular Belgian DJ Mike Dierickx (M.I.K.E.). Best known for the song "Universal Nation", he has also released other singles including "The Legacy" and "Strange World". His style is primarily progressive trance.

Push - Portland/San Diego 
Push is a two piece band made up by Josh Wyble and Matthew Kupka. Josh and Matt both are familiar to the music scene, with Josh coming from playing drums in hardcore project Tiger Lily, and Matt being the previous singer/guitar player in Southtowne Lanes (also Dog Knights Productions). The music you hear is representative of those influences. Their debut LP 'For Sale By Owner' will be released through Dog Knights Productions in January, 2018.

Push - The Band
Push formed in late 1987 and pioneered the London " Rare Groove Scene " along with bands such as The Brand New Heavies, The Young Disciples and Soul II Soul.
Push released their first track "Traffic" on " Acid Jazz and other illicit Grooves" (1988 Polydor) this track won high critical acclaim and from this record the ACID JAZZ movement emerged.
Push toured Japan in 1989 for Gilles Peterson under the Acid Jazz banner, and with legendary London and UK shows gained a live reputation second to none. The Rhythm section of Crispin Taylor, Ernie Mckone and Mark Vandergucht were recruited by Galliano in 1990 and proceeded to tour the world selling in excess of 800,000 albums for the band.
Meanwhile the Push Sax player Jacko Peake worked with Paul Weller on his Solo projects and the Trumpeter Damon Brown became an internationally respected Jazz Musician.
Push continue with to perform in the UK and Europe cementing their reputation as awesome purveyors of hard grooving Funk.

Push - The Other Band
Punk band from Hässleholm, Sweden

PUSH - Portuguese Hardcore Band from Lisbon

PUSH is an alt-rock/shoegaze band, from Tulsa, OK. We started writing music together in high school under the name Progress In Color, and through the first social media boom that was MySpace, found success. Touring across the US for a few years gained us a fan base, and eventually we signed a record deal with Sony. Shortly after releasing our debut LP in 2012, the record label went through a change of power, and we were dropped overnight, along with the other newly signed acts. No big deal. Keep going..⁣
⁣So we packed up and moved to Nashville, TN for a fresh start. That move in turn began life’s individual paths for the 3 of us. We made the move expecting to get closer and stronger, but ended up drifting apart from one another. There was never any fighting, no bad-blood, and no real desire to stop creating - it just happened. Fast forward a few years and we found ourselves even further apart - Grant and John moving back to Tulsa, and Caleb staying in Nashville. That seemed to be the nail in the coffin. ⁣
⁣Then the 2020 pandemic hit, and like many others, we found ourselves with extra time to break out of our normal routines, dream new dreams, and reconnect. A plan was made in the fall of 2020 for Grant and John to join Caleb in Nashville, and we would try to write and record for the first time together in almost a decade. ⁣
⁣We had no idea if we would get a single song out of this trip, if we still had it in us, or if we would be able to find common ground musically. At the end of day 1, those concerns were gone - we had a song written and recorded before the night was over. It felt cathartic, liberating, rejuvenating… we remembered why we were so addicted to this thing - because it comes so easy to us when we’re all together. Seeing and hearing again the chemistry between 3 brothers confirmed that we didn’t need to wonder if we could still do it, we just needed to get to work. ⁣
⁣Our lucky streak held up that week - we had 7 days, and to our surprise, we wrote and recorded a song a day. Those 7 songs will serve as the start of PUSH, and we’re thrilled to share it with you over the coming weeks! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PUSH">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.