The crushed heads and dismembered remains of PUTRESCENCE (ex-Head Hits Concrete, Seven Plagues) have been assaulting and mutilating frenzied and degenerate audiences across the planet since the spring of 2003. Since its initial exhumation from a desolate field near a cement manufacturing plant in Winnipegs north end, the band has sworn vengeance upon the living by launching into a brutal campaign of power drilling stale and grotesque music deep inside craniums and soft, juicy eyeball sockets.

Releases have been pouring like warm plasma out of an axed up human skull. "Occult Blood and Excrement", the 5 song demo was released in the fall of 2003. A year later in the fall of 2004, the completely sickening "Mangled, Hollowed Out and Vomit-Filled" was regurgitated by No Escape Records. Upon its release, a September 2005 tour of Eastern Canada took place. Upon the successful completion of this tour, in late 2005, the band recorded tracks for a split EP with Embalming Theatre, available now through Goryfied Productions.

In 2006, the band released thirteen moldy tracks for a second full length CD on No Escape Records with the 12" vinyl version (limited shit/piss coloured wax) released on One Percent Records. Dawn of the Necrofecalizer is the definitive soundtrack to using gloved fists to evaporate the very faces of poseurs while blacked out drunk. Diehards will feel compelled to completely smash the Christ into a blackened mixture of tar, bone fragments and facial hair upon blasting this album at 3 a.m. with no remorse.

In 2007 as a five piece monstrosity, having added Dennis Mott on 2nd guitar, the band played the Maryland Deathfest, and released a new album for Power It Up Records. This reeking platter is titled "Fatal White Pustules Upon Septic Organs". The band supported this release with appearances at Bloodshed Fest in Holland and Moshfest in Poland as part of the mid-October European Blowtorch Decapitation tour. Over a two and a half week period. Putrescence played numerous countries alondside such bands as Regurgitate, Dead Infection, Extreme Noise Terror, Squash Bowels, Afgrund, Malignant Tumor, Sublime Cadaveric Decomposition, Neuropathia, Gadget and many, many more.

In 2008, the band finished recording new material, appeared on a split 7" with I Die Screaming on Eschaton Industries. The band also took part on a split 7" with Archagathus on Kill Bomb/Rescued from Life Records, out hopefully in 2010. As well, Putrescence released a fourth fourth full length album, "Sledgehammer Holocaust" on October 31st on No Escape Records. A two week tour of Western Canada took place in early November with Impaled and Fuck the Facts.

2009 saw the band playing witth new friends in Cattle Decapitation, Absu and completing a successful jaunt out to Alberta and back. 2009 also brought the departure of Dennis Mott and the addition of Jay Edwards on guitar. The band remained holed up in the basement writing, waiting, and trying to piece together the most extreme tunes the band has put together in six years of existence. 

Now in 2010, the band is pleased to announce appearances at the Maryland Deathfest as well as Obscene Extreme as European tour dates in 2010 and the release of a split CD with Polands' Neuropathia. The band continues to write in hopes of piecing together a full length album in 2011.
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Putrescence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.