PVT, formerly known as 'Pivot' , are a three piece band based in London and Sydney. Formed by Laurence Pike (drums, percussion) and Richard Pike (guitar, production) in 1999. Dave Miller (electronics) joined in 2005, releasing their debut 'Make me love you'. In 2008, PVT signed to UK label Warp Records, publishing the EP 'In the Blood' (as Pivot) in May. 

PVT's first international release 'O Soundtrack My Heart' (also under the name Pivot) came out  in August 2008, tracked at BJB Studios Sydney, Australia, with Scott Horscroft, and mixed with John McEntire (Tortoise/The Sea and Cake), at Soma Electronic Music Studios in Chicago, Illinois, USA.

2008 saw the band tour relentlessly across Europe and the UK. Notable shows included an appearance at 2008 Meltdown with Yellow Magic Orchestra, Glastonbury and invitations from The Arctic Monkeys, Sigur Rós and Gary Numan to support on Australian tours. The band has been known to cover Talking Heads' I Zimbra live using live sampling to replicate up to 12 parts, and included a live version of the song on the B Side of their O soundtrack My Heart tour-only 7".

PVT were invited to perform as part of the Brian Eno curated Luminous Festival at the Sydney Opera House in June 2009, and were then also working on the completion of their third studio release with engineer Burke Reid in Sydney. They also contributed a cover of the Grizzly Bear song "Colorado" to the Warp20 (Recreated) compilation, as well as having their song "Fool In Rain" covered by Scott Herren's 'Diamond Watch Wrists'.

In 2010, the group decided to remove the vowels from their name Pivot after a legal claim was made from an American progressive metal band of the same name, releasing 'Church With No Magic' in August 2010. 

PVT worked with Ivan Vizintin, engineer and former Ghoul frontman and Ben Hillier on mixing duties to produce their third studio album, 'Homosapien'. The album was released on February 11th 2013 via Felte records. February 2017 saw the release of 'New Spirit' , after working again with Vizintin and Hillier.

http://www.pvtpvt.net

 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/PVT">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.