Death Metal band Pyathrosis was formed in 1988 by two school friends Wiebe van der Veen and Ernst van der Loo in the Dutch town of Alphen aan den Rijn. After trying several names they decided on Pyathrosis, which they took from a Carcass lyric. They had difficulty finding a drummer but succeeded after a while and found René van der Putten.

In 1990 they recorded their rehearsal demo "Siphoned Hell". After that René left and they faced the drummer problem again. 
An add in Aardschok magazine delivered Hans Kuyt as a new drummer. With him behind the kit they started working on rehearsing the new material that had been written in the mean time. 

In februari 1991 they went into the studio to record the "Fields of Unceasing Death" demo. This tape was receiving positive responses from a lot of underground mags around the world. Pyathrosis did several gigs in Holland and Belgium in this period. Mostly with fellow Alphen aan den Rijn death metal band Dissect, Tilburg's Acrostichon and the then already infamous Gorefest. On other occasions they also shared the bill with God Dethroned and Edge Of Sanity.Pyathrosis was featured on a wide selection of underground tape compilations and underground radio programs around the globe.

After a while Leendert Hus, a good friend of Hans, was added as a second guitar player to fatten up the band's sound.  In 1992 they worked on their "Judge" demo. This demo had some wider influences and sees the band adding a sort of 'grooving' form of death metal. The band shortly after disbanded due to shifting (musical) interests of the various members. Ernst was already working on his side project The Circle together with Robert Westerholt, Martijn Spierenburg and Jeroen van Veen (Within Temptation). Wiebe van der Veen would later appear as bassplayer for the band Vincent Scheerman formed after Dissect.



Last Line Up:

Wiebe van der Veen - Bass Guitar, Vocals
Ernst van der Loo - Guitar (later in: The Circle,Severe Existence)
Hans Kuyt - Drums
Leendert Hus - Guitar

Ex Members:

René van der Putten - Drums (nowadays playing in Dutch band high treason)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/pyathrosis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.