There are multiple artists named Pyramids:

1) Pyramids are an experimental band from Denton, Texas, United States, combining elements of shoegaze, black metal, industrial, ambient and noise.
They released their debut album in 2008, followed by cooperative releases with Nadja, Horseback and Wraiths and the box-set WVNDRKMMER, a collaboration with 52 different artists. Due to their highly collaborative nature, they have yet worked with artists like Jesu, Blut Aus Nord, Lovesliescrushing, Ulver, Lustmord, This Will Destroy You, Burial Hex, Fear Falls Burning, Bass Communion as well as members of Krallice and Kayo Dot, to name but a few.

2) Pyramids are a screamo band from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Formed in late August 2005 after three long-time friends, who had played with one another for many years in A Petal Fallen, found a house in Philadelphia and decided to write music together again. Living together in the Veggieplex Theatre and being largely unemployed, we found a lot of time to practice, ended up playing our first show only a few weeks after beginning to write, and began recording a full-length only a month after conceiving the band.
As they were finishing the recording of our record Following the Tracks, Forcing Motion Through Phases, they played a lot of shows and had a lot of fun, but upon its completion Chris decided Philadelphia was not for him and moved back to Seattle, followed shortly thereafter by Eric. With a three-week tour on the horizon and only one person left to play it, Larry and Daniel decided to help out and we took Pyramids on the road with only 1/3 of its original members, even writing some new songs (for the Devices split) in the process.
At the moment Pyramids has found permanent membership in Sean, Dave, and Benn, and is nearing completion of a new LP, Through the Hourglass. Following is already out of print in its LP form, and will hopefully be repressed soon, to coincide with our upcoming split 7"s. In a month or two we should be recording for yet another split, this time with our tour partners from last year, Capsule.

3) Pyramids are a hip-hop duo from North New Jersey, United States, comprised of Ddand and JV. Keeping real hip-hop current and alive.

4) Pyramids is a garage punk band from Seattle, Washington, United States, formed by Matt Ford (The Intelligence, Factums) and Chris Chambers (The Lights).

5) Pyramids (stylised as PYRA/\/\IDS) is an electronica pop duo from Bolton, UK, formed by brothers Martyn & Paul Barnes.

Note: if you are here for the Californian surf rock band, or for the UK reggae band, please change your tags to The Pyramids.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pyramids">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.