Pysiedius (Pronounced: Puh-Sid-Ee-Us)  is a band that was formed in the small city of Brockville, Ontario, Canada in late 2001. As both time and musical maturity have progressed Pysiedius have since relocated to the demographically larger city of Ottawa. This 5-piece band has the intention of creating the most impassioned representation of themselves as musically possible, with each member equaling one fifth of the unparalleled dedication driving this finely-tuned musical machine forward. Chris Boerger (22) fronts the band on lead vocals, Alex Coon (20) and Leo Diensthuber (20) bust the crunch and twang on lead guitars and vocals, Kyle Gaulin (21) weaves together the tight-end on bass and vocals, and Alex Lysko (20) chronologically pours the foundation of the band from behind the drum kit.

The style of music that Pysiedius delivers to the ear shares many components with other metal bands thriving in the music industry today. Pysiedius brings together these various aspects into musical fusion with heavy breakdowns comparable to Unearth, melodic clean stylings reminiscent of Opeth, and the progressive nature of Between the Buried and Me, making them unforgettable to any metal audience graced with their presence.

This is a band that has gone from playing youth centers on the corners of their adolescent streets to some of the most distinguished venues in the nation's capital. Pysiedius take pride in their unpompous formula of never refusing a show, even after growing popularity has enabled their participation in bigger shows at more famous venues, because getting their sound out there is what really matters to them. Whether they're playing to a sold-out audience of one thousand or to a handful of kindergartners they employ the same method; balls out. The personality and character of each individual member is collectively represented within their musical career path both past and present. Living and breathing music has always been a way of life, encompassed by examples ranging from both guitarists being recent recording arts graduates all the way to the custom-built studio and practice space constructed in the basement of the Ottawa home the band continues to share in close quarters since moving to Ottawa in the late summer months of 2006.

The future holds a positive horizon for Pysiedius with the release of their brand new EP Butchery and Apathy. With respectively heavy traffic being drawn to both the band's website (www.myspace.com/pysiedius) and to their live shows, Pysiedius are enthusiastic about their June 2008 CD release and subsequent touring. Pysiedius have already booked a summer 2008 tour throughout the whole of Ontario with fellow Ottawa musicians Epocholypse launching on July 6th. The future projection for Pysiedius is to reiterate and solidify their presence with another fall 2008 tour of Ontario once again, and in due course stretch this leg of the tour all the way out to the east coast of Canada.

In a world of carbon copies and bored cliches the paunchy riffs and mind-boggling instrumental tendencies of Pysiedius are hard to capture without subjective experience, but one thing is certain...the popularity of this metal powerhouse of technicality is only growing. With Pysiedius' progressive stylishness musically melded as an unyielding alloy of rhythm, melody, hooks, heavy riffs, and breakdowns, Butchery and Apathy is a toil on the grindstone for this young band which presciently proves within a profound vision of a mushrooming surge that they've only begun to erupt.

- Lorrance III  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Pysiedius">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.