There are several bands with the same name:
1) Python is a trio based in Rostov-on-Don (Russia). It was formed in 1998. Members are Yura Kolomiytsev,Alexei Samotarev (aka DJ Samotarev) and Eugeniy Litovchenko. 

At first, the project worked in house and break beat styles, their tracks appeared on many Russian compilations.Since 2002, the Python project has moved into Tech-House, Progressive, and Electro, and by 2004 they released their first album "DeePressure" 

The Python project has now progressed to create a stunning new live act with inclusion of live bass guitar,violin and percussion. 

In the 2006 they signed some tracks at Climax, Xeton and Neuroscience labels. Tracks of Python project were supported and get positive feedbacks from such DJs as Armin Van Buuren, Andy Moor, Flash Brothers, Lisa Lashes, Moshic, Christian Cambas, Chris Micali, Eric Entrena, Mike Hiratzka, Gabi Newman,D-phrag, Nicholas van Orton, Dean Facer, Dom Kane,Eelke Kleijn, DJ Tarkan, Noel Sanger and many more. 

Their tracks and mixes appeared at DI FM, Frisky, Pure FM, Proton, ETN FM, KSK radio (Argentina), Top radio/Rotationz (Belgium), Shine Box (Ireland), Dance Radio (Greece), House De Luxe (Luxembourg), E.M. (Luxembourg), CRMK 89,8 (UK),Liquid FM, ADN Alternative, Justmusic FM (Hungary), Afterhours 99.1 FM, ensonic FM, TribalMixes,Sensegenerate FM, MercurySessions,Rouge Platine, XTC just to name a few. 

In 2006 they started label called Carica Records. Main aim of this label is to release quality progressive music from different parts of the world. Also Carica has 3 sublabels Revelation Records, Carica Limited and X-pand Audio, focused on trance, electro and techno music. Their label got support from Armin Van Buuren, Paul Oakenfold, Markus Shultz, Flash Brothers, Andy Moor, Andrew K, Slacker,Mystic Force, Airbase, Kaya & Albert, Ronski Speed, D-phrag, Nicholas Van Orton, Snake Sedrick, DJ Tarkan, Noel Sanger,Suzy Solar, Eric Entrena, Christian Cambas, Miika Kuisma, Deviant, Yves Eaux and more. 

Python also host some radio shows at different radios, among them Wild Nature show at famous radio Frisky and Confusion co-hosted with Samy Fresh on ETN FM. Also Russian Desert on DI FM (www.di.fm) and Carica radio show on Proton Radio. 
Also Snake Attack @ Pure FM (USA), Opposite Force @ Pure FM (USA) (the main feature of this show is that guest are girls DJs only!!!),Russian Spices @ Dance Radio (Greece), Carica Sessions on ADN Alternative (Argentina), Expectation on Sensegenerate FM (USA), Frozen Dreams on enSonic FM (Germany) and Green Temptation on TribalMixes. 

Among guest of their show you can listen to such people as : Samy Fresh , Defender Droids (Nicholas van Orton & Rhino), Ken Cable, Anna Maria X, Onirika, Suzy Solar, Pilot , Mike Brin, Dark Globe, Leama,Andy Moor, Deepsky, Christian Cambas, Miika Kuisma, Flash Brothers, Chloe Harris, Silent Brothers just to name a few.

2) Experimental/Psychedelic Doom Metal band from Brooklyn, USA.

3) Hardcore band from Louisville, Kentucky. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Python">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.