Quartered is a Canadian progressive metal band that made its beginnings in Vancouver, BC. The group’s sound is a mix of heavy, melodic, and experimental riffs with a noticeably moody edge. Using odd-time signatures, hook laden bridges, and solid in-your-face hardcore riffs, the band’s sound is gutsy and genre defying. Whether in your stereo or on the stage the group is sure to impress.

Quartered has toured extensively during their decade long year career. In Canada, hundreds of local Vancouver shows, dozens of West Coast tours, and two cross-country tours during 2010 and 2012 gained the band fans and respect on a national level. On an international level, two Philippines tours saw the group team up with successful metal outfit, Slapshock, where they were able to play shows in Manila and the surrounding area, network with several Asian media outlets including MYX TV and Pulp magazine, and play to crowds upwards of 4,000 people. During 2010, Quartered capitalized on the opportunity to play alongside two of Metal’s most legendary bands, Lamb of God and Testament, at the annual Pulp Summer Slam festival that drew a crowd of over 30,000 spectators. During their time touring, Quartered was able to garner the attention of a considerable fan-base that has saw their online exposure grow to over 24,000+ fans on Facebook.

To date, an EP and two full length records, The Falls of Autumn and Walks Like A Ghost, have been written and recorded by the band. The latest record Walks Like A Ghost (released through a collaboration between Thorny Bleeder Records and Universal Music Canada) was produced by Ben Kaplan, a recording industry veteran who worked on several projects including Mudvayne, Chevelle, Alexisonfire, and Rise Against.

With their new manager, Evan Nixon (currently on All Stars tour with Capture the Crown, Every Time I Die, Chelsea Grin and others) on-board for the future, a new record is in the works for release in early 2014 as well as touring again at a national and international level.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Quartered">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.