Querubes is a progressive metal / power metal band from Paraguay, formed in mid-1997 by guitarists Richie Vidaurre and Felix Pereira. Later the band joined Walter Barrett on drums and Jimy Gonzalez on bass.
Querubes performed to the public after 7 months arduous testing, getting amazing results with its supporters nationwide. The training lasted about 2 years and then a regrouping of members came. Richie Vidaurre sole remaining survivor of the first period. In late 1998 and throughout 1999 Querubes rehearsed only strings having in its ranks and Albert Ramirez Pablo Muñoz on guitar and on bass, at the end of that year joined the band vocals Gustavo Torres, Derlis Britez in keyboards and battery last Beto Barrios.
This new line-up would win even more converts than the first stage of the band and quickly grew the fame of the good perfomance of Querubes on the stage after several concerts and after recording a live footage the band decides to end his musical career, this occurred in 2002.
Each member choose different paths and it was not until 2006 that the same members met (without Derlis Britez) recorded a demo entitled Querubes 2006 and joined their ranks Ketembeil Cristian keyboardist.
THE RETURN. On Saturday 8th of April the expected return of Querubes was at HITÓRICO to the stage, this time I decided to make a mark and marks an epoch in the environment of the rock. Querubes are presented together with big bands of South America around 2006 and ended that year with a majestic live play in one of Paraguay's most important festivals, the Asuncion Mosh.
The 2007 rip with everything and be in the first edition of Penta Music Metal Fest festival is considered the second most important and which are part of the organization by these commitments and wait for her first child, Albert Ramirez leaves band giving its place to one of the best rock guitarists of Paraguay, Mr. Gabriel Colman who joined the band throughout 2007 and in 2007 Querubes won 1st place in the competition Latin Awars Equinox which allowed the band take their music to Punta del Este (Uruguay), developing the final of the competition, and closing the main stage this year shared with Hangar (Brazil). In 2008 the band launches Traces of Misery their third demo this time in English which would mark a definite turn for the band to the Anglo-Saxon language and option for more aggressive style and without keyboards.

Current line-up of Querubes:
Felix pereira Vidaurre Richie on guitar and vocals,
Pablo Muñoz on bass, drummer
Beto Barrios and Gustavo Torres on vocals

In September 2009 is planned their first album LOST CENTURY to be released.

The album is out!

Querubes at Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Querubes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.