there are 3 artists named Question:

1) A modern jazz artist & producer, known for the collaboration-album with Freddie Joachim.

This Southern California beatsmith has been spinning hiphop since the early 90′s. Question’s natural progression to beat making can be attributed to collecting records from an early age. It all started with an ASR-10, then moved on to the MPC-2000 and stuck to it ever since. It wasn’t until recently that Question started to use software and incorporated live orchestration to his music. His production style is a mixture of sequenced instruments and often obscure jazz samples, driven by heavy beats.

His first official release was an album entitled “Study Guide” along with good friend and fellow producer, Freddie Joachim. Study Guide was released by Japan’s renowned, DJ Tonk on his label Milkdipper. The CD was sold in Japan, Europe and digitally worldwide through iTunes. This collaborative project started as a conversation between two like-minded individuals. The concept was simple, both artists possessed a distinct sound with an emphasis on jazz. The end result is a compilation that walks you through one of the most progressive musical art forms.

Study Guide was also released in the U.S. as a Limited Edition Digipak with bonus tracks not on the Japanese CD. Limited copies were made and sold in select stores including Accesshiphop.com, Freshcrate.com and TurntableLab.com. A 10″ limited edition Study Guide EP vinyl containing select tracks was also released by Homegrown Blends and is available at Freshcrate.com

Question’s latest project was entitled “Standard Translation”. This instrumental album was his personal contribution to the golden era of jazzy-hip hop. This Japanese exclusive album was distributed by Introducing Label in Japan. Question’s music can be defined as an interpretation of a timeless era, purely fueled by Jazz & Soul. After all, good music IS timeless.


2) Girl fronted crust from Minneapolis. Featuring members of Detestation, Ganglion, Monsters of Pot and Cognitive Dissonance.

3) A Death Metal band from Mexico <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Question">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.