According to Discogs, 26 artists share this name, here are some of them:
1. Quest is a London based dubstep producer, a key member of Anti Social Entertainment. He releases music on Deep Medi Musik, Dub Police and on the Anti Social Entertainment imprint.
2. QuESt - An american rap artist from Miami.
3. Quest -  Can be a side project of dance producer Luke Chable.
4. Quest is also a quintet of friends from middle Tennessee that is Intergalactic Space Funk!! 
5. Quest - jam band, Quest conists of JP Maywald (Drums), Alex Hartness (Bass), Sherwyn Nicholls (Synths and Keys), Will Hooper (Percs), and Kendrick Nicholls (Guitar).
6. Quest - an indie/rock band from Sydney, NSW, Australia.
7. Quest - rap/rapcore band from Germany.
8. Quest - an Lithuanian heavy metal band.
9. Ambient project of Maurice van Dongen and Frans de Waard

1) Quest is a dubstep producer from South London signed to Mala’s Deep Medi label. Music has always been a big part of his life, from learning the bass in church, then progressing to the piano and guitar in his early teens. Since then he’s become an integral member of Anti-Social and Deep Medi imprints, alongside close friend and label mate Silkie. With several high-profile releases under his belt already, Quest’s soulful productions have won an army of admirers worldwide.

2) An american rap artist from Miami. In just a half a year, QuESt has done very well for himself. Using the internet to his advantage and promoting his music through various Hip Hop blog sites with material to match the coverage, the 18-year-old emcee has released four mixtapes that not only have shown the growth of his lyrical ability, but likewise has established him as a rapper that is truly committed to his craft. After winning TAG Records’ “Survival of the Freshest” competition earlier this year, this Miami-native has only garnered more poise and dedication as an emerging new voice for Hip Hop.

From his earliest influences to his new mixtape Broken Headphones, QuESt gave DXnext the inside scoop of his journey thus far. And whether this is your first time experiencing QuESt, or a chance for you to find out about the artist behind the music, one thing is for sure; the man has a lot to offer, and he’s only getting started.

QuESt is a conscious rapper with a little bit of an edge and a lot ofcharisma. The 19-year old hip-hop wonder from Miami sounds like a pro who’s been doing it for years, when in reality, he didn’t really start recording seriously till a little more than a year ago.

“2010 is not mine, I’m just growing,” says QuESt, humbled in the first seconds of the first song on How Thoughtful, his sixth official mixtape. It was released this past February 11 and mixed by Chicago’s DJ RTC.

The mixtape is comprised mostly of freestyles over an electric mix of industry beats and sprinkled with a few original tracks as well. Highlights include “Quest Is Active,” “Swear I’m Putting On,” and of course “Exhibit Q,” QuESt’s interpretation of Jay Electronica’s “Exhibit C.” Anybody who was anybody in hip-hop made their own version of “Exhibit C,” but QuESt’s version got a lot of praise in the hip-hop blogosphere and by coincidence had a little line where he shouts out all of his supporting bloggers:

I spit this my n****z that be hustlin’ for shine
Getting ridiculed by bloggers for speaking from their minds
I do this for my bloggers that be spending all their time
Trying to keep their crowd informed and never get to just unwind


All in all, QuESt runs through How Thoughtful with style and ease. It’s a worthy precursor to his next project, The Reason: A Defense Mechanism, which is sure to be a great release when it does come out. Given his age and what he’s been able to accomplish in a small amount of time, QuESt will surely be among the notable names of the next generation of talent coming out of Miami’s hip-hop scene.

QuESt was born on September 2nd, 1990 in Miami, Florida and resides there to this day. He began using music as an outlet at the tender age of 7 describing his first encounter with Hip-Hop: “Ever since I heard The Roots’ song Baby You Got Me, I was hooked. I didn’t know what it was, or what I was exactly doing but I was going to do it regardless.” Since then QuESt has blossomed into an up and coming emcee by gaining critical recognition throughout the world wide web. QuESt has been featured everywhere on the internet, from 2dopeboyz.com to Hiphopgame.com to Hiphopdx.com, just to name a few of the larger publications. Although recognition on the internet was a success in it’s own right he still maintains that his biggest achievement thus far was winning the Tag Records Survival Of the Freshest Tour with Jermaine Dupri. On this tour QuESt beat out 660 other emcees and took home five grand along with landing studio time and a first look deal with Jermaine Dupri himself (you can view the video on the left). 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Quest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.