Quinta Essentia started in 2004 and released their debut full length album in 2006 which was "Neutrality For Defined Chaos".  An experimental extreme metal album, there are many ideas presented here.  Death Metal with progressive metal , black, and thrash influences but not limited to that.   Merging some of the instrumental type guitar ideas on this album with black metal sound,  there was a nice level of atmosphere achieved hear with a pretty raw production.  Perhaps the Black Metal influence coming from the founding member having been in Blood Stained Dusk(US Black Metal)  for over a decade.   The sounds on a Quinta Essentia album to date have shown influence of traditional heavy metal, black, death, doom, classical and psychedelic music.  There is a huge influence on guitar work here and these guys shred! BUT keep it dark and purposeful.  The band has taken the lyrical artistic expression to the level of the apocalypse, the occult and esoteric, and philosophy.  Topics of shamanism, world Magick, and the cosmos arising in songs.   The bands 2nd full-length album was released through Deathgasm Records and Ibex Moon Records and was titled "Archetypal Transformation".  The album saw more increased complexity in song structure and a new lineup whom joined right after the previous albums release.  The band,  at this point consist of Jason Flippo-Guitar, Vocals, Bass, Matt Barnes-Guitar, and Lance Wright-Drums released this album and did three US tours.  The first tour in 2007 in support of the Neutrality For Defined Chaos album and armed with a 2 song  promo of what was to be songs from Archetypal Transformation and the later two US tours in 2009 and 2010 with Swedish Death Metal band and labelmates Nominon in support of Archetypal Transformation. .  The songs on "Archetypal Transformation" have quite a bit to them with many harmonies, solos, and parts to each song.  Phenomenal ceremonial album artwork painted by Spanish artist Juanjo Castellano.  The first tour that Quinta Essentia did was a month long 2007 US tour covering  coast to coast playing with different supporting acts and other bands in each city. Since then The later two tours were in 2009 for 3 weeks and again in the US in 2010.     While touring Quinta shared the stage with many different bands such as Monstrosity, Immolation, Vital Remains,  Diabolic, Acheron, Incantation. Quinta Essentia has also done several festival shows at Michigan Death Fest, Central Illinois Metalfest, Hellfire Manifest, Chicago Metal Devastation Fest and more.  Currently, the band is writing the third album which is expected to hit the masses around mid 2013!

2013 Line-up: 
Jason Flippo - Vocals, Guitar, Bass
Matt Barnes - Guitar
Eric Gordon-Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Quinta+Essentia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.