Quok is the electronic project of Vladimir Sorokin, a producer, vocalist, and songwriter from Prague, Czech Republic. A prolific artist, he released over 100 tracks from the beginning of his career in 2013 to when the alias went on hiatus in 2019.

Born in Saint Petersburg, Russia in 2000, Quok started uploading music to SoundCloud in 2013. He released his first album, Rain, in that year.

He continued to gain recognition, and in 2014, he released his second album, Memories, released two EPs (Survival Waves which was released by the now-defunct label Underslung Audio and the piano/ambient Poteryanniy EP which was released by Muri Collective), and released his track Cosmic Cat on Bass Business' compilation Bunker 1. He ended the year with an official remix for Jan Amit's track Heal.

2015 proved to be his most successful year yet, starting things off with Hollowly, a collaboration on Pensees' 2015 album, Gravitation. Quok's third album, Imaginary Places, was released in March of that year, and in that same month, Quok made an official remix for Spire's Past Calls, which was released on Frequent's label Upscale. May saw the release of the three-track 19/12 EP, and in June he collaborated with 2Gross to make the track Sirius, which was on 2Gross' Infinite Odyssey EP. Quok finished the year with then the seven-track EP, Getaway, in July.

2016 was a diverse year. One on hand, his fourth album, Traveller, which came out in May, followed a more chilled-out, experimental sound. On the other hand, his Future Bass singles Atariwave and Nostalgia were released on February and October, respectively. Both of these tracks were released by a new label, Night Owl Collective. Atariwave was Quok's first hit, amassing millions of streams across YouTube, SoundCloud, and Spotify, and Nostalgia was a part of the label's 40-track Feel Trip, Vol. 2 compilation.

2017 saw another label release, with the track Meow (a collaboration with Pure Pool being a part of spirited.'s compilation FREE SPIRITS Vol. 4. spirited. was one of the biggest labels Quok had released on so far, as the label had previously had releases from large artists like Virtual Riot, Diamond Eyes, and Tisoki. He also released his fifth album and largest one yet, Intervals, in October. Most of this album continued the experimental, chilled-Dubstep route but also had some Trap and Halftime. His final release of this year 

2018 began with Aqueous, a collaboration with respected artist Culprate on the third installment of his series of six-track collaborative EPs, Unity Project. Fellow collaborators on this EP include Keota, Protostar, Bloom, Frequent, and Aether. He then released a remix of fellow Russian producer Pixelord's track Metal Mutant, which was on the remix package for his album, Human.exe. Quok's sixth and final album, Krov, was released in October, and his second hit, Mojdom, was part of this album.

In March, Quok released his final EP, Genesis. The track Breathe was actually a remix of Missu's track of the same name, with the official remix pack coming out later on in August. In April, Quok released an official remix for Mujuice's Die Young!.

The Quok alias has since gone on hiatus. According to his Spotify bio, his focus is mainly on his rap project, Куок, but he's still working on another album as Quok. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Quok">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.