After devourument..s disintegratión in october 16th dying 91 leaves of darkness a project establishment like group,formed by roger bravo called ¨R..lyeh¨. the permanece of lugo barrett in the group like one of the principals members of the band and after the rapid substitution of drummer paco avila ¨R..lyeh¨ remained composed by three elements that quickly pull out material to their demo ¨Ancestral Terrors¨ where extended ideas that they have experince with the band break up. a band die,but ¨R..lyeh¨began emerge of the darkness marines depths,doing a sound more elaborate and brutal execute with more experience. lugo barrett(guitar)make a work more elaborate,distant,ripping and delirious. the songs inspired by the great master of horror ¨H.P.lovecraft¨with serius lyrics contents,playing in a death-metal slow,fast and extreme sing with abysmal voice. the influences are different but nothing in common,combined all to pull out a different sound. after their first demo studio they burden in 1999 their EP ¨The Black Island¨ with paco avila on the drums,containing songs elaborated in 1992 dedicated to the lugo..s father. with the step of the black years R..lyeh prepares new EP that was called ¨In The Infernal Moment¨ . R..lyeh continuining with their own style and finding new drummer called felipe¨frost¨. they get ready to emerge of those but dark shades. now in 2009 the classic line up is complete again!!!! ¨R..lyeh¨is a blaspheme city submerge in the sea,is a cyclopean stage of incredible proportions,blaspheme landscape,dammed city irradiate a sinister aura distortion horrors of things without position ancestral horror where ¨Cthulhu dead dream¨ waiting the current position of the stars in the cycle of the eternity to the city will emerge of the sea and ¨the abomination mains and dreams in the depths¨ to return to govern........ ¨Ph..inglui mglw..nafh cthulhu r..lyeh wgah..nagl fhtagn¨ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/R%27lyeh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.