RABBITS is a power trio from Portland, Oregon. The band comprises one drummer (KG) and two guitarists/vocalists (Sethro and Booze). Debauchery-fueled ruckus, intoxicating hangover nightmares, scathing audio beatings you can’t help but ask for repeat doses of, RABBITS does something brutally infectious with every pulsating moment of their seemingly haphazard but ultimately succinctly executed delivery. Formed in 2003 by three musicians with prior time spent in Angel Hair, The VSS, Hutch and assorted West Coast acts, the contorted tones of RABBITS immediately drew comparisons to Melvins, Karp, Jesus Lizard, Cows, Flipper, Butthole Surfers, Volcano Suns, Harvey Milk and others. Like auditory sandpaper, their grating noise-soaked sludge/rock grooves harshly wears down the listener with a demoralizing and punishing rhythmic attack, with all levels jacked to the max.  

RABBITS began playing shows in 2005 and began releasing records in 2006: the self-released “Sloth vs. Bees” 7-inch and the “Lungs” 12-inch split with Under Mountains on Eolian Records. In 2010 RABBITS released the “Hide” 10-inch, also on Eolian. Between 2006 and 2010 Rabbits also released several limited-run cassettes and CDRs of live recordings from shows and radio performances.  In 2011 Relapse Records released the first full-length RABBITS album, "Lower Forms", which has been accurately described as a thing of "cracked-out, violent beauty" (Portland Mercury), "totally absurd... in the best possible way" (A.V. Club) and "everything I could possibly hate about a record rolled into one and then served on a piece of shit" (Angry Metal Guy).  In 2012 Good to Die released the second RABBITS album, "Bites Rites", described as "a choppy and rhythmically alarming dig toward hell" (Heavy Planet) that "destroys with crushing, grooving madness" (American Aftermath) and begged the question, “Ever wonder what would happen if you put your Butthole Surfers records through a buzz saw?”  In 2013 RABBITS released the odd 'n' sods collection "S.O.S.: Singles, Other Shit" on the (now) RABBITS-run label Eolian Empire, with six originals on the A-side assembled from LP session bonus tracks, 7-inch tracks, unreleased demos, radio performances, alternate versions, and practice space jams, and a B-side of the trio buzzsawing their way through a bundle of jacked-up Discharge, Cro-Mags, Rudimentary Peni, Bikini Kill, Negative Approach, D.R.I., Poison Idea, Minor Threat and Black Flag covers.  Their third full-length album, "Untoward", was released in 2014 through Lamb Unlimited, the label spawned by Chris Spencer of Unsane and Alan Schneider of No More Records.  "Like a shovelful of sludge to the skull, the record reeks of blood, mud, and the rancid pheromones of AmRep veterans like Cows and Killdozer.”  

Invisible Oranges put it best: “In a noise rock scene dulled by younger musicians trying to be someone else, RABBITS have been RABBITS. Lines can be drawn—you could add the descriptor ‘heavier’ to Flipper or Shorty and be in the ballpark—but nothing really sticks besides 'RABBITS.'"
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rabbits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.