Radigost is a band from Russia (Moscow) which uses elements from different styles in their music, such as black, doom and death metal.

The band was founded in autumn 1994 by guitarist Rimmon and bass player Alastor, playing slow doom-metal. First band name was "Infernus" but soon it had been changed to "Istanus" because of another band with the same name. In 1995 keyboardist & vocalist Svar replaced singer Alvis. With this line-up, in April 1995 the first demo-tape called "The Way" was recorded. After that, Alastor became drummer, Svar became bass player & vocalist and in mid 1995 the single "Spirit of the past" was recorded. 

New guitarist Valafar was taken in in 1996 and a few months later Alastor was replaced by Pit Lord on drums. The band changed it's name to "Radigost" and recorded their second demo "Nocturne" in 1997. With the help of Metal Agen Records, the album "Nocturne" appeared in 1999 in MC-format. The music on "Nocturne" had become faster and more complex, and the style shifted towards black/doom metal. In september 1999 female-keyboardist Amoneth was invited and a few months later Pit Lord left the band. 

From 2000 on, they successfully started live activities by taking part in several Moscow concerts. Gniffuts from the Moscow black-metal band "Embrace of Night" agreed to help and to play drums in Radigost. 

The first album “Nocturne” was re-released on cd in 2002 by Stygian Crypt Productions with two exclusive bonus-tracks: "At parting" and "Until". In 2003 drummer Pit Lord returned. At the same time the band started recording stuff for the new album. After more than a year, in early 2004, the second album "For The Honor Of Our Truth... For The Honor Of Our Faith" was released and, with a new concert program ready, Radigost reopened it’s concert activities in 2004. 

After a four year break, Hadahardz Music released the third full-length album "A Stellar Kingdom", issued in 10-panel Digi-CD format. Radigost, once known as a pagan-black band, now geared towards classical music with clean vocals by opera female-singer Irma Otto, classical nylon-guitar parts and orchestrations, while retaining heavy styles like black, folk and death metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Radigost">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.