There are several artists with the name Radius.

1) RADIUS (nee Ramon Norwood) is a focused multi-dimensional hiphop/electronic based artist from South Chicago. Radius started crafting beats in 2001. After producing numerous tracks for local rappers he began to further hone his skills as a producer/live performance artist by winning in Chicago area beat battles and later performing in various hiphop/electronic showcases. He has rocked alongside notable artists including Blu & Exile, Eliot Lipp, The Opus, Thavius Beck, Mux Mool, Dark Party, Maker and Guilty Simpson at various Chicago venues including The Abbey Pub, Sub T, Darkroom, The Metro, Reggie’s Rock Club, Morseland and at the famous Low End Theory Club in Los Angeles. 

His debut full length release 'Neighborhood Suicide' in 2008 on The Secret Life of Sound Label was well received in addition to ‘Radiushead’ his free Radiohead remix EP released that same year. In 2009 two limited independent projects, Scatterbrain Tapes Vol. 1 on Plustapes a local Chicago cassette based label and custom limited CD release ‘Etc…’ on Grittygoat based in NYC. These appearances led to mentions in Remix magazine, The Chicago Reader, The Chicago Tribune and The Amoeba Records Blog. He currently has a couple EPs in the works and a collab project with Leo 123 of Dark Party under a new moniker "LAGOS" to be released in 2011. 
http://soundcloud.com/radiusone
http://grittygoat.com/gg/radius/

2) Radius is a rockband from Groningen, The Netherlands. Formed by Johan Faber. The band started making music at the beginning of 2001. The band spells the name in capitals.
Their music can be linked with bands like Muse, Radiohead, Placebo and The Cure. A mix of 80s wave rock and modern pop rock. A trusted sound mixed with the sound of today… or tomorrow!
”RADIUS is intense, but also full of cool dynamics and driven rock.”
Their website is at http://www.radiusrock.com
For the release of their 2010 album Universal Love Code they attracted 584 believers through SellaBand. This made them the 3rd Dutch artist gathering enough believers at SellaBand for releasing an album.

3) A new band is on its way to the digital airwaves with their timeless Alternative Rock anthems and global message. The hot Los Angeles-based band RADIUS is already turning up the heat with their feel good, world ethereal rock ‘n’ roll. The band is a crossover between powerful Alternative Rock and emotional arena Euro-rock.

The members of RADIUS have quickly found themselves at the front of the pack with the release of the highly anticipated EP Crossing Over. With the best music supervisors in the film and TV industry vying for the rights to use the band’s music in shows like the CW’s One Tree Hill and the Victoria’s Secret Dream Angels ad campaign, it’s clear that RADIUS is becoming a true powerhouse in the music industry. 

Crossing Over is just a small sample of the raw talent that pours out of Matthew Turbak (vocals/guitar), Thomas Gilbert (guitar/vocals), Joseph Chavanu (drums) and Jan Pauck (bass). Matthew’s vocals are strong, emotional, and reminiscent of Bruce Springsteen. The lyrics are well crafted and tell stories of love, life, struggles, and passion. You can hear a strong influence from U2’s The Edge in Thomas’ unique, lush guitar melodies. Jan’s solid driving bass lines are fueled by Joseph’s foundational rhythm. Together they create the dynamic sound of RADIUS.

Even before RADIUS’ breakout new album was a hit, the band was turning heads. This was proven true when legendary producer Stephen Short took an early interest in the band and later in his production of Crossing Over.

The music created by RADIUS takes listeners on an inspirational journey. Whether you’re relaxing in the sun to Indian Summer on your favorite beach or jamming out to Touching Down or Crossing Over while cruising down the Pacific Coast Highway, you’ll feel enlightened and free by the end of the song.
As you experience the music of RADIUS, you’ll discover their mission to spread a message of love, hope, and change for the better.

RADIUS just finished a nine-date tour across the beautiful country of Canada with the multi-platinum recording artist Everclear. While on tour, the band had a phenomenal time meeting fans, rockin’ out, and promoting their new album. RADIUS is currently back in Los Angeles working on new material. Even off the road, the members of RADIUS are passionate about what they do and are always looking for new ways to connect with fans and share their music with the world.
www.RADIUSband.com
www.facebook.com/RADIUSband

4) Radius was the name of Zack Bissell’s (Legendary Admins) ambient/experimental project, which started in 2005. A majority of the music applies a technique Zack refers to as sound collage, which mixes numerous samples with simple music in order to achieve a ‘roller coaster effect.’ He released a demo in 2006 titled “When a Nightmare Breaks Out From The Dream,” which also touched on black metal, and then the “A Portrait of the Soul” EP in 2007. After completion of this EP, Zack put an end to the project. Music can be downloaded here at http://myspace.com/experimentalradius 

5) Radius is David T. Krupicz, an electronic musician from Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. He also releases music under the aliases: 4096, nodelete and radius / 4096 / nodelete. Music can be downloaded here: http://www.asciipr0n.com/4096/mp3/2006/

6) A Japanese visual-kei band featured on the Punishment Party Vol 2. omnibus. Alternative tag: Ｒａｄｉｕｓ

7. Radius is one of the many monikers of Chicago-based producer Stephen Hitchell (Intrusion, Soultek, Variant, Phase90 etc.) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Radius">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.