Radogost is a well known folk metal act in Poland, sometimes praised as the ''polish Korpiklaani'' due to their often humor and alcohol-driven lyrical content (aside from all the folk), as well as a specific approach to their music. 
Radogost is an old god of Slavic mythology. Since the name can easily be translated as meaning something like “Dear guest”, Radogost was proclaimed as the Slavic god of hospitality and as such entered the hypothetical, reconstructed Slavic pantheon of modern days. 
The band was formed in 2006 by a guitarist Mussi (Łukasz Muschiol, the creator of the Immemoratus Project), who decided to take the role of the lead singer, and a drummer Łukasz Goszyk. Both musicians had known each other from a metal band, but this time they decided to break the standard conception of metal music by incorporating folk motifs. That's why Thifall (Jan Musioł), a violin-player, joined the group. Although the band's initial concern was to record music and post it on the Internet, occasions to perform live occurred soon. Thanks to this, a bassist – Adam Gluza joined, and the group started to give concerts. This time, the band really hit the bull's-eye, and their concerts met with massive enthusiasm. Countless questions about the first longplay motivated the group to record the album Two Hectares of a Living Forest [„Dwa hektary żywego lasu"]. After its publishing in 2006, the group was joined by another musician – a guitarist, Marian Kolondra. Between 2006 and 2008, there were two changes in the band. Adam Gluza left and his place was taken by Andrzej Spyra, who was later substituted by Bartłomiej Tabak. The group gave quite a lot of concerts then. Radogost performed with such bands as Alkonost, Butterfly Temple and a Russian group Arkona. Numerous concerts were given abroad, namely in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. In 2008, the second album named In the Great Oak Tree Shadow ["W cieniu wielkiego dębu"] was recorded. The video-clip to The Song of Czantoria Knight ["Pieśń o rycerzu z Czantorii"], a piece from the previous album, was produced by TVP Katowice also in 2008. The year 2009 brought Radogost big troubles. Marian Kolondra left and Bartłomiej Tabak, who had played bass so far, took his place. The position of bassist was given to Szymon Kaczmarek. However, it soon turned out that not everybody shares the same ideas about the band's future. The increasing conflict caused the band to suspend their activity and had its final in Łukasz Goszyk, Bartłomiej Tabak and Szymon Kaczmarek leaving the team. In spite of the difficulties, the two remaining members of the band decided to give Radogost one more chance. Then, in the beginning of 2010 Marian Kolondra rejoined, together with new drummer Talar (Marcin Tatar) and bassist, Rafał Bujok. Then, Mussi decided to give up the vocal and concentrate more on the guitar. Bawling one's head off was entrusted to an experienced vocalist and a former front man of the band Goddess of Sin – Velesar (Marcin Wieczorek). New album Dark Side of the Forest has been released in 2012, first and the last in English. In 2013 Velesar left the band and Mussi again took the main vocal. New album released in 2015, Dziedzictwo Gor (Legacy of the Mountains, is Radogost resumption to the source of their origin and the real meaning of polish folk metal as the band was recognized since the beginning in 2006 returning to be the most recognizable polish folk-metal band all over the world with their slavic legends in few songs based on great polish poet T. Miciński poems. Bonus song Wild Hunt inspired by The Witcher Game.
In 2018 album Przeklęty (Cursed), fourth full-length album of polish folk-metal band Radogost has been released. It is a continuation of the journey to the dark side of human nature with melodic violin parts. Based on traditional polish legends and myths.
Members
Lukasz 'Mussi' Muschiol - lead guitar, vocal; Jan 'Thifall' Musiol - violin; Marian Kolondra - rhythm guitar; Rafal Bujok - bass; Marcin 'Talar' Tatar - drums
Influences
The band finds all the inspiration in slavic myths and legends.
Sounds Like
A good pint of beer! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/RadogosT">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.