Benjamin Stefanski (born 17 April 1987), better known by his stage name Raffertie, is a British composer and producer, active since 2007 and based in London, England. He is currently signed to Ninja Tune, and also runs the Super Recordings record label.

On graduating in 2010 from Birmingham Conservatoire with a degree in Classical & Contemporary Music Composition, Raffertie had already become established in the world of electronic music. Recognised as both a producer and DJ he has a reputation for performances filled with a dynamic energy that saw him play across Europe from Fabric to Space as well as festivals Glastonbury and Bestival before he had graduated.

Raffertie has experimented with numerous styles, displaying the depth of his production skill across releases for Planet Mu, Black Acre, Super Recordings, Domino, Atlantic, Moshi Moshi and Ninja Tune for which he has received accolades from Simon Reynolds, Huw Stephens and Mary Anne Hobbes.

Hobbes first championed Raffertie when he did a session for her on 7 January 2008 on her BBC Radio 1 Experimental show. He also did another session on BBC Radio 1 for Rob Da Bank in June 2009.

In April 2009, Raffertie's first remix of the Scottish act Franz Ferdinand "No You Girls" (the original reached No. 22 in the UK Singles Chart) was released on Domino. Also, in 2009 Raffertie played at Glade Festival and his track "Do dat" featured on A Trak's Fabric Live 45 mix in March.

"7th dimension," released on Planet Mu, was record of the week on Nick Grimshaw's show on BBC Radio 1 for the week of 18 January 2010.

After graduating in 2010, Raffertie founded Super Recordings and, in 2011, signed a record deal with independent UK record label, Ninja Tune.

"Visual Acuity EP," his first physical release for Ninja Tune was record of the week on Nick Grimshaw's show on BBC Radio 1, who described it as "Crazy, but so, so good." It also received airplay from Rob Da Bank, Lauren Laverne, Huw Stephens, Jen Long and Mary Anne Hobbs.

The debut album Sleep of Reason was released in August 2013 on Ninja Tune. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raffertie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.