Rage Of Angels.


A.Rage of Angels is the brainchild of original Ten keyboard player Ged Rylands,who played on their first three studio albums and the double live CD 'Never Say Goodbye'. During his time in Ten, Ged took part in several very successful tours in Japan as well as playing on the highly praised 1996 debut album from Valentine singer Hugo, which was co-produced by Ten vocalist Gary Hughes.

After leaving Ten, Ged went on to play with Contagious and guitar wizard Danny Danzi, and then after a ten year break raising his daughter alone, he returned to play on albums by Omega, Scar For Life and Lover Under Cover,before joining Tyketto in 2012 as a touring member of the band. However, during that ten year break Ged continued writing, the results of which can now be heard with Rage of Angels.

During the initial stages of the album, Ged hooked up with Los Angeles based singer David Reed Watson. As Ged explains, "David sent my girlfriend a Happy Birthday mp3 with him singing accapella on it. I even turned off the TV and said "play that again". I made my girlfriend message him and I just saw so much talent in his voice that I asked him if he would like record some stuff for the album. We needed to get some help production-wise, so Bruce (Mee) put me in touch with Kane Roberts (Alice Cooper/solo) who took David under his wing and got a superb vocal performance from someone whom we will be hearing lots more from."

It was while hanging out with Bruce at the 2011 Z Rock Festival that the suggestion was made about getting some other 'name' singers into the project to enhance the finished product. Friends such as Danny Vaughn (Tyketto) and Harry Hess (Harem Scarem) were contacted, and happily agreed to take part.

When the album was taken to Escape Music, label owner Khalil Turk used his excellent connections to bring in further name vocalists such as Matti Alfonzetti, Ralph Scheepers and Robert Hart. But it's not just in the vocal department that the album positively exudes class; Ged has brought a similar level of talent in for the guitarists, with former Ten colleague Vinny Burns supplying a solo that Rylands describes as "very much in the vein of 'Loneliest Place in the World' from our Ten days."

Another ex-Ten guitarist, Neil Fraser, provides the majority of the playing on the album, but Millenium guitarist and fan favourite Ralph Santolla also makes an appearance. Explains Ged, "Me and Vinny were posting stuff on Facebook one day and Ralph messaged me and said, 'I challenge Vinny Burns to a guitar duel on your album!' How could I not refuse? So I wrote 'Requiem for the Forgotten Soldier' just so we could all have a mighty show-off guitar battle, which Martin Kronlund and Xander Demos even managed to get involved in!" Martin Kronlund also provided the magnificent mix.

The band name 'Rage of Angels' comes from a lyric written by Bruce Mee that Ged was impressed enough with to write the accompanying music, and will be heard on the band's follow up release in 2014. But for now, the adventure is just beginning and be assured that this release is one that will garner rave reviews from fans of hard melodic rock world-wide. Part Ten, part HaremScarem, part Tyketto .. all CLASS. FEEL THE RAGE in 2013!!

B.A Christian Metal band that struggled to stay true to their convictions. After the group transformed themselves into RANSOM, recording demos of a more secular nature, the quintet seemingly went through a further struggle of convictions and reverted back to RAGE OF ANGELS and scored a deal with the Christian Regency label.

RAGE OF ANGELS made their vinyl debut with a track ('Rock For The Rock') on the Pure Metal Records compilation album 'Heavy Righteous Metal' in 1988 before splitting up. Frank DiConstanzo and John Fowler joined STEELHEART. Vocalist Dan Mariano resurfaced fronting PYN SIREN.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rage+of+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.