The band's name is a custom word composed by combining the phrase "Rage in Heart". The band started to take form in 2001 by the founding members Angel (guitars) and John (vocals). After several years playing with bands, Angel  failed in finding dedicated members to work in a regular basis and most of all, a serious and capable vocalist to perform the songs. So he put his own band on ice and played in several unknown bands as a guitar player.

That time he was working as a graphic/web designer in a company. The advantage was that the 90% of the employees were addicted to heavy metal/hard rock and also, the company "produced" great musicians.

So that time John joined that company as an employee, met Angel and after figuring out that they had common musical "tastes", they arranged a rehearsal in order to play some covers and start composing Angel's nameless song that time ("The Amulet"). "Speedy" Nick from Angel's Cry (a local band that had a good demo and numerous gigs including headlining a fest in Woodstock Club) was recruited in order to help with the rehearsals. The result of the first rehearsal was outstanding and the chemistry of the members was good. A keyboardist was also added for a while but didn't work out 'cause of musical differences. Also a second guitar player, a good friend Jim Ternezis, but his speed style that time also didn't work out with the band's style.

The rehearsals kept on going building the songs but no bass player existed for a long time, causing problem to the rhythm section, also the absence of a second guitar. So after some time, another member of Angel's Cry was recruited, George "Rocker" (Rokas) on the bass guitar.  George, was an awesome player, contributed seriously on the songs and especially on "Child Of Rage" and because of the fact that he was playing with "Speedy" Nick (a nickname "stuck" from Angel's Cry members) for over 10 years, the had a perfect chemistry and "built" together a serious rhythm section.

The band started having thoughts of recording a 3track demo but unfortunately Nick "Speedy" and George "Rocker" had to left the band immediately in order to rehearse and record with their own band which changed style, playing serious speed metal forms now. During the last rehearsal, RagenHeart started composing a really dark song with quite inspired vocal line by John. That song never got completed but there are plans for it in the future.

So Angel and John left alone for another time. Stergios, a drummer from Rainbow's Edge (and several other band's drummer) was recruited but his style didn't work out with the band's style.

The band was put on ice again until the company that John and Angel worked for, gave the solution again. Nikos was hired as an employee in the company. He had just returned from Switzerland doing his MSc. Of course he happened to be a bass player, so John and Angel asked him if he wanted to be in the band. Nikos rehearsed with the band and proved to be an amazing player. After some work in order to learn the songs, he brought to the band the most mysterious drummer we ever worked with, Nick "The Ghost" ("The Ghost"...because we didn't know anything else about him, some times he disappeared for weeks, didn't answer the phone etc.) That guy despite the fact that he was only 20, he was an extremely capable, progressive player and brought many innovations. The band finished almost five songs in. Another keyboardist, Billy was added for a while but again, it didn't worked out.

The band started making plans for recording a demo. Nikos was serving at the navy that time but never missed a rehearsal. Nick "The Ghost" started disappearing, and one day, once and for all. No phone call, no sms, nothing. He just disappeared without a single word. All the work with him turned to almost nothing. So the band turned again to Nick "Speedy" whose band even if they had a private full organized studio, never recorded anything due to musical differences. Angel told Nick that the target was a demo recording in order to have at least a CD with the efforts of all these years recorded. Nick was a full band member now, so rehearsals began again and Nikos brought Stavros at keyboards. He had no metal background, most classical influences and turned the band's proposal down. He finally agreed for just a single rehearsal to see if he liked the music, and after that he was recruited permanently.

Now that the band is full, the recordings of the demo began at December 2006 and finally the CD is ready. Nikos did a serious work writing the main "driving" lines of the songs and the metronomes in order the drums to be recorded. John did a master-class vocal recording, also Nikos' and Speedy's work was amazing.

The future of the band is still unknown. Efforts will be made to promote the bands work even for a record deal. But the main purpose was fulfilled, to record a CD with all the efforts of almost 5 years in it. In the time that numerous TV reality "music" shows are growing one after another producing a bunch of shity "songs", "musicians" and "singers", products with an expiring date stabbed on them, 5 people written heavy metal music together and with their own money and efforts produced a CD with pure heavy metal music. Isn't that a win?

The cd was sent in several music labels, independent and major. A couple of really major labels showed interest but required better sound production and complete cd product in order to discuss further.

After the release of the cd, the band received several good reviews from webzines and magazines, in Hellas but also internationaly. Kostas Athanasoglou (Steel Gallery Records) and Greg Varsamis (Eat Metal Records) listened to the demo and decided to help the band , so they offered the chance to open the concert for the legendary Heir Apparent. This was an amazing boost for the band and also great honor, to play with such legends for the first time. Kostas Athanasoglou and Greg Varsamis never stopped helping and believing in Ragenheart, so the next years they arranged several support shows for the band with legends like Cloven Hoof and Leatherwolf. With the help of Greg Varsamis, the band gained popularity all over Greece,  received lots of emails and cd orders.

Ragenheart had an amazing review in the german "Heavy" magazine and also in the british "Terrorizer" and the hellenic "Rock Hard" (also an interview by Greg Baxevanides). In 2007, the hellenic label "Burning Star Records" approached the band and offered a resonable record deal. Ragenheart signed and set the plans for the recordings at Hangar Studios, Greece. Soon after the gig with Leatherwolf, the record label set all the bands of the roster free from their contracts. This fact did not stop the band, they continued recording, new songs and also all the songs from the demo/Ep.Nikos did fantastic work, arranged all the songs digitally and helped in order to gain serius time in the recording process.

In 2009 the recordings is finally over and the mixing process begins. The band searched several music producers in order to achieve the best result. Attracted also the "eyes" of famous music producers even if the budget didn't allow further cooperation. After the mixing process is over, the band will once more search for record deal and hope for the best. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ragenheart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.