RageDate is a band formed in Sweden - late 2002, by Sebastian Bjorkemar (guitar) Mattias Larsson (drums) and Fredrik Andersson (vocals). This was shortly after the breakup of their former band.

Now, because of influences from bands such as System of a Down, Limp Bizkit, Rage Against the Machine and more, the music that was created in the early days of RageDate can easily be described as extremley melodic hard-rock.

The first wave of songs - and thereby the first official appearence of RageDate - took  place at a local scene in Landskrona city. At this early period Fredrik played bass, and a guy named Filip Persson did the singing. The show was a success, but unfortunately Filip left the band. As an answer to this, Fredrik took over the microphone.

After another four plays, the next big thing for the band was the first recording of RageDate-material. The songs "Unreal Behaviour", "Symbol of Imagination" and "Selt" were recorded at the Wennerlund-brothers-studio in Landskrona.

Some time after the band plays at the Rotrock-festival, Fredrik decided to leave the band but Sebastian and Mattias kept on recording. They were looking for a bass-player and a singer and in the meantime Sebastian and Mattias built their new rehearsal-studio in an apartment. During the time of auditioning, the band had two singers and one bass-player on the list - but none of them was fully fitted for the task.

To RageDate's next gig, bass-player Stefan Levin became a member, as well as ex-member Fredrik - who did a stand-in for that particular show. This show was at The Tivoli in Helsingborg - where bands like The Haunted, Darkane, Hellacopters and Soilwork has played. Stefan left the band because of other hobbies, but the new bassmember was found pretty fast - Mikael Hill. Fredrik realized that he missed RageDate and the bandlife too much, so he rejoined. As a whole band RageDate headed, once again, to the recording studio - this time at AudioSpot Records, located in Malmö. This new single contained the two songs: "Close Your Eyes" and "The Cold Voice". 

In the summer of 2004, Jens Thellman joined RageDate as a sologuitarist. He melted into the band quickly, and it almost seemed like he had been a RageDater since the beginning. He was adaptable and learned about ten songs (and invented new guitar-solos for most of the songs) for the Rotrock-Festival show taking place only one week later. 

In the fall of 2004 the band soon realized that Mikael didn't fit into the band because of, in their view, wrong opinions and aspects of band life. Mikael is currently comitting himself to his other band Fatal Nurse.

The empty slot was quickly filled in by Alfred Andersson. He was mainly meant to be a stand-in for the Malmo-tour 2004 but it soon evolved to him being a new steady member.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/RageDate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.