Since rolling out of New Jersey's industrial wasteland, Rahway to be exact, these perennial rock underdogs are ready to take over the world! David Cardenas, guitarist, his brother and drummer Steve Cardenas, bassist Bobby Paffrath and lead singer Steve Visconti feel their debut 14-track album "Snitches Get Stitches" on Deadeye Records, is a fresh opportunity to prove themselves as many bands from Jersey have done in the past. 

Fully capturing the spirit of today's DIY musicians, these four badasses, with their musical genius, do something truly revolutionary in the rock-n-roll scene. Their music holds fist pumping and grinning sexual innuendo, with choruses that ring in your ears from the first listen and hooks that boomerang through each song. Embodying the down to earth Jersey roots, but rolling the rock to a whole other edgy level. Rahway has been an enormous part of the East Coast scene, opening up for rock greats blowing through the area, such as Ratt, Wasp, Dokken, Dust For Life, UFO, Winger and they were even on the same bill as Missing Persons. They've done high profile gigs at cool haunts like Dingbatz, Stone Pony, Crocodile Rock Cafe and Starland Ballroom where they've left the fans in amazement. 

Rahway blows their audience away with energetic, in your face, guitar crunching songs like "Broken Disease" and "Machine" but they turn on the charm for a lush ballad like "I Can Feel It". "Broken Disease" wakes us up to the reality that everyone's forgetting life's simple pleasures and "Pull It Out" is a playful, raunchy and in your face grenade that makes metamorphic political commentary about our country being a carnival where you win then, you lose. 

Rahway's innovative and ever-evolving song writing makes them one of the most imminent bands of our time. Influenced by legends such as Led Zeppelin, U2, Godsmack and Motley Crue, their fusion of power is gaining them popularity very quickly. They are impressive and eminent ~ Rahway is NOW!

Rahway is made up of:
STEVE VISCONTI~ Lead Vocals
DAVE CARDENAS ~ Guitars
BOBBY PAFFRATH ~ Bass
STEVE CARDENAS ~ Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rahway">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.