There are several artists using this name:
1) Raiden. After signing with legendary drum & bass imprint Renegade Hardware Raiden worked hard at creating his own identity and as a result earned a strong support network of artists and fans alike. His sound would walk the tightrope between Techno and drum n bass, in love with the ethos of techno and unable to let go of his love for big bass and live breaks. 

Christopher Jarman’s aka Raiden’s musical story has been somewhat of a rollercoaster. They say music is the key, and in this case it most certainly was. He was living in the grey steel town of Portsmouth-each day was passing like the day before, slowly seeing his dreams slip through his fingers- yet in despair he found hope, a moment of clarity, a signal to the future- this came in the form of his landmark track ‘Fallin’, a piece of music that would launch him into the stars, and he would never look back, relocating to the Baltic Tundra of Tallinn, Estonia, a place where he can collect his thoughts.

Bursting onto the scene as a producer Raiden would quickly cement his reputation as a DJ, quickly touring the world, bringing his brand of funk to the masses-his travels have taken him to all 4 corners of the globe many times over; a modern day travelling band with only his headphones and music as company. Always presenting the unchanged mission to bring you the sound that occupies his mind.

Along this journey Raiden created his own label empire - something that would represent him with no compromises - it was with this thought that Offkey & Voodoo was born. Offkey is the cold steel of the metropolis whereas Voodoo will be the unknown of the rainforests and jungles, 2 separate climates living in harmony with each other. In order to separate from the masses Raiden releases his manifesto without comprimise always acting on instinct and constanltly maturing.

During the inception and creation of his own sought after productions & label, Raiden has been asked to remix some of the biggest selling tunes of his generation - namely DK8s techno anthem ‘Murder was the Bass’ and the old school classic-Human Resource’s ‘Dominator’ to name a few. Artistically there is much more to come from Raiden, he will be releasing more music for the mighty Renegade Hardware, his own imprints Offkey Music & Voodoo will continue to release the cream of what this music has to offer. There will also be long players from Raiden alongside singles on the best labels the scene has to offer.

In a sense this is only the beginning...you truly have to know where you came from in order to know where you’re going. 

2) Raiden was a UKHC band with a hefty metal influence. They released an MCD entitled The Killing Fist on Retribute Records in 2000.

3) Raiden (레이든 aka DJ Raiden) is a South Korean DJ and electronic music producer signed under Protocol Recordings and SM Entertainment. He released his first solo single, Heart Of Steel, on January 13, 2017. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raiden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.