Formed in Belgrade, Serbia, on 5th of January 2003, initially as a three-piece-semi-acoustic-project, Rain Delay with their debut As I Bequeath My Yesterday (2005, Active Time Records) grew into a promising and daring young band that pushed many musical boundaries. Starting with their original, and in many ways beautiful form of atmospheric doom/black metal/rock they went on much further on their sophomore album We Forget (released for Serbian market only - DIY). Today they represent a very listenable, nevertheless radio-friendly, sui generis form of fusion metal, enhanced with much melodic death, post hardcore and even jazz/funk influences, but keeping in touch with their musical roots. Just imagine Opeth, Saturnus, Burst, Poison the Well, Faith No More and Chris Rea in one band. Well, if you do that you may be one inch closer to their essence... Now cherished by all sorts of music fans, also appreciated by their colleagues as a very professional band, they played numerous great gigs, concerts and festivals, in over 35 towns in their homeland, such as the famous EXIT festival in Novi Sad (2006 &  2009), and the opening act for bands KATATONIA, CHARON and ANTIMATTER. The band also did the music for a movie by Nebojša Radosavljević called “Who the fuck isMilos Brankovic?” which premiered on 36th Belgrade film festival – FEST 2008. Expansion on a foreign market (that just might be well beyond their current underground popularity) is expected from 2009, after signing for UK label - Life Burns Records. In the meanwhile, the band received numerous awards and recognitions. We should mention winning Gitarijada Ratkovo competition, high position on GBOB Serbia '09 and Šumadija Demo Festival.

In 2010 Rain Delay entered studio STRETCH with producer Aleksandar Djordjic, to record their new effort.   

RD is powered by MAPEX Drums Serbia 

Rain Delay are: Bojana Milosavljević (vocals), Dušan Pešić (guitar, vocals), Željko Zec (guitar), Stefan Radojković (bass) and Marko Mrčarica (drums)

Album info

On October 17th 2008 RAIN DELAY released its long waited sophomore album called WE FORGET for an indie record label MR. METAL - DIY label. This release made quite a tornado in the alternative music scenes in Serbia. The album contains eight tracks, diverse in style, but equal when comes to quality. Both in the terms of compositions and lyrics, this album relies on a special gift of its authors, most of all RD's front-man Dušan Pešić. Listenable and seductive, it was recorded and produced in Muzički Studio NOVIČIĆ (in Belgrade, Serbia), by a well known jazz musician Vladimir Novičić. Modernizing post-production work was done in CHAINROOM studio (in Senta, northern Serbia). To a fusion of melodic death/doom metal and post-hardcore sound RD incorporates influences from a wide spectrum of popular music genres, so you can hear all sorts of bands here such as OPETH, IN FLAMES, ANATHEMA, MOURNING BELOVETH, POISON THE WELL, ISIS...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rain+Delay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.