The beginning of Rain of Sorrow goes back to October 2004 in Warsaw, Poland when Grzegorz Jezierski (Gregor)(ex-Daemonicuim, Archeon) put forward an iniciative to create a band. Subsequently the search for musicians was started. And so, one by one the band joined: Zephyr – vocals (Spiral Madness), Marek Rykiel (Marcus) – solo guitar and drummer – Paweł Stanikowski (Wielebny) (ex-Spiral Madness). 

  By November the line-up was completed, which made working together on the material during practice sessions possible. However the band was still looking for other musicians and thanks to it, a new member joined Rain of Sorrow – Kamil Chrzanowski (Camel) – rhythm guitar. During next 4 months the band was working on the material and still looking for musicians. In April 2005 a new face joined the troops – Rafał Sadkowski (Plejboj) – keymaster bringing gentleness of sound and atmosphere which the previous music of Rain of Sorrow lacked.
Two months later the band was enroled by Modran – vocal. In July Rain of Sorrow decided to sum up the material which it had so far. The debut promo-cd was recorded in Studio X in Olsztyn, where Szymon Czech and Marcin Kiełbaszewski kept an eye on the work. The cd consists of 3 tracks: Silence, Surrender, and Kismet. Next months of band's life can be considered as the most dramatical so far. Rain of Sorrow suffered from a huge crisis, which led to stagnancy. The end of summer 2006 was the time when the band had to make a difficult decision. After almost two years of working together, Rain of Sorrow decided to end cooperation with Wielebny. His place was taken by young but talented Amadeusz Krebs (Amek – ex-Teratosis).

  After few moths and successful gigs (Pomeranian Metal Fest, Black Stock) the band parted ways with Kamil Chrzanowski. He was replaced by Ryszard Spurek (Rich) on rhythm guitar. Unfortunatelly changes in line-up seemed to be never-ending.
Another member who resigned was Marek Rykiel (Marcus), a lead guitarist and co-founder of Rain of Sorrow.Despite all line-up changes the band was able to work on their new material and live performances. 


  In August 2009 Rain of Sorrow finished recording their new album entitled "Sirius". All recording work was done in Studio X in Olsztyn and now Rain of Sorrow is looking for a publishing label. Current line-up is:  
 
 Lesbitch    -vocal 
 Modran      - vocal
 Gregor       - bass guitar
 Infero         - lead guitar
 Swierszcz - rhythm guitar
 Plejboj       - keyboards
 Wielebny   - drums 
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rain+Of+Sorrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.