This is normally where you would see a promoter or band manager put a bunch of things that make the band itself seem like a fully qualified, master of the trade, turn of age difference maker in the bigger scheme of what is metal. But simply put, as a band they refuse to fit into stereotype. In the early stages of the band's existence short lived flash in the pan status was overshadowed by record labels that didn't have the fortitude to stick with a band with real potential and an evolving sound. The accommodations and decent press that was received from magazines like Guitar World were accepted great-fully by all involved with the band and its success. The people they reached out to with their sound and moved in mass will not be forgotten and your support is greatly appreciated. We will not forget how we got where we are now.

Now a new chapter in the band's persona is taking shape. With addition and institution of new lead guitarist Jeremy Davidson and life doing its implementation of grand design, the band has evolved into what can only be described as a powerhouse metal phenom. Classic sound mixed in with new metal influences from bands such as Mudvayne, Bullet for my Valentine, and Trivium its obvious that time and life itself have helped craft a truly unique sound that will soon hit the ground running. On fire and determined, there is nothing that, as an entity, Raising Cain will let stand in the way of getting their message to the masses in a mind shattering method that can't be ignored.

So do yourself a huge favor and sit back, enjoy, and pay extreme attention to how quickly an ember turns to a raging inferno of metal that will transcend into a sound that won't be ignored. From the words of Matt Heafy from Trivium "they are a force to be reckoned with" and they are nothing short of determined to prove all the supporters right for giving the praise, and the critics a reason to rethink the entirety of their reasons for being a "critic" in the first place.

So strap in and hold tight. Raising Cain is armed to the teeth with chaotic sounds that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Listener and critic alike beware... We are ready to change your level of interest and your criticism for the better to the extreme. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raising+Cain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.