There are eleven artists known as Ram.

1st:  RAM is a Swedish heavy metal band formed in 1999. They boast uncompromised, no-frills approach to their music.

2nd: RAM is the alias of Kouichi Yamazaki, known for composing music for the beatmania IIDX music video game series.

3rd: RAM is a mizik rasin band based in the city of Port-au-Prince, Haiti. The band derives its name from the initials of its founder, songwriter, and lead male vocalist, Richard A. Morse. The band's music has been described by Morse as "vodou rock 'n' roots", and has been one of the prominent bands in the mizik rasin musical movement in Haiti. RAM began performing together in 1990, and recorded their first album in 1996. The band's music incorporates traditional vodou lyrics and instruments, such as rara horns and petwo drums, into modern rock and roll. The band's songs include lyrics in Kreyol, French, and English.

4th: Ram (Ram Boon) is a trance DJ from the Netherlands, formerly known Bas & Ram. Bas & Ram were a DJ duo but split up in 2009.

5th: Ram is a musical group that was based in New York City in the United States and was active in the early 1970s. Band members included brothers John and Ralph DeMartino as well as Bob Steeler who later played with Hot Tuna. Many reports state that a mellotron was the instrument used for the spacial and elecronic effects of Ram's music. A ctually, they were the result of electronic flute and in some cases, tenor alto and soprano saxophones (sometimes played 2 at a time) by John DeMartino. The band produced one album on Polydor in 1972 entitled Where? (In Conclusion). The album was recently re-released on Akarma records and is now available on compact disc. The original vinyl is a sought-after collector item.

6th: rAm is a musical group that was based in Oregon in the United States and was active in the early 2000s. The band produced one album in 2002 entitled Monopolis. The album is a two-disc set that includes songs that as a set describe the story of two lovers escaping a futuristic city known as Monopolis. A movie was planned based on the album, but never produced.
: 
7th: a veration name of the UK duo R.A.M. (Scorb) and Neural Rectifier Syndrome. R.A.M. stands for Rampant Angry Men,and this exactly how their music sounds, massive and energetic psytrance.

8th: RAM was a funk combo from Toronto, formed by Wayne McGhie and former members of The Hitch-Hikers. Their only release is the 1972 single "Love Is the Answer".

9th: RAM was a recording name for ex-Monaco front man David Potts' band.  They released the 'Songs on Page One EP'.  Potts now records under his own name.

10th: the band Ram from Haarlem, The Netherlands. for more information: http://www.myspace.com/ramtheband

11th: RAM (also known as Gryaznyy Ramires) is a rapper from Russia, Nizhnevartovsk. Firstly started to make music in 2011 under the name Sergey Versal but in 2014 changed it to Gryaznyy Ramires and started working in pair with Sidoji Duboshit. Together they formed a duet called SIDxRAM. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ram">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.