At least eleven artists have used this name:

1) Random aka William Rickman, from Sweden started his chipmusic career in 2002 with the joke-band randomshitmotherburger, but quickly discovered that his interest in chip-style sounds was no joke. Branching off as Random, he started making music with Game Boy in 2004, after being introduced to Carillon Tracker by Karawapo (of Pepino). 
Random has performed live in Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Finland, England, Italy and the US, and used to be one of the organizers behind Stockholm's Microdisko.
Official Website: www.randomizer.se

2) Random is an Argentinian modern avant-garde/progressive metal band who draw on modern alternative metal, djent, thrash metal among other styles. 

3) Random is an underground hip-hop rapper and producer also known as Random Beats. His latest album is Mega Ran, a concept album revolving around the Mega Man video game character.
Random is not rich, is not a gangsta, is an emcee by night, is here to make a difference.
Random's official website
Random's Myspace

Half-teacher, half emcee, all hustle. A 12-year rhyme veteran, Philadelphia native and Phoenix transplant, Random speaks to the everyman through creative stories and concepts.

It all started with "The Call." Released by RAHM Nation Recordings in 2006 to rave reviews, it helped to establish Ran as one of underground hip-hop's up and comers.

"The Call" has been utilized in university curriculum and has propelled Random all over country, selling thousands of copies and encouraging young, old, rich and poor alike.

Random's follow-up move can only be described as something Random. In 2007 he released the critically acclaimed "Mega Ran" album, which combines hip-hop, rock and many more musical genres with the memorable music of the classic Mega Man video games. This album got him into the good graces of the game's creators, Capcom, who offered Random full support of the project, which opened him up to a completely new fan base, in addition to his growing underground following. Now you are just as likely to catch Random spitting his clever, poignant rhymes at an anime convention as at an underground Hip-Hop spot. 

Okayplayer called "Mega Ran" 'one of the most creative releases this year,' and Random's music has gone on to be profiled by media outlets such as Wired Magazine, IGN, Complex Magazine, Blender Magazine and more.

Random released the conceptual "The 8th Day," on August 8, 2008 featuring guest appearances by Naledge of Kidz in the Hall, LMNO of the Visionaries, MC Frontalot and many more, in addition to competing in the world-famous SCRIBBLE JAM MC Battle and landing a feature story in Blender Magazine.


4) Random is the psychedelic psytrance project of Ross Dubios from San Francisco. His sound has been described as "intelligent, crunchy, groovy and mind expanding". He released over 14 tracks on various compilations of labels like Acid Dance, Shiva Space Technology, Spun Records, Timecode Records and others. His first full length album "Implicate Order" came out in march 2006 on the Geomagnetic.tv Label Group.


5) Random is the name used by a progressive metal band from the A.C.T (Australian Capital Territory), they have been working on a new demo and have others previously released. They are about to start a tour of Australia in the not-to-distant future.


6) Random is an emopunk band from Austria.


7) Random is demo rapper from Podgorica, Montenegro.


8) Random is a ceilidh band from The United Kingdom. They describe their style as 'electric ceilidh music with guts'.


9) Random is a Band from Colombia


10) Random was a ska band from Richfield, Minnesota, USA.

11) Random was a punkrock band from Papendrecht, the Netherlands between 2002-2004. They have released 1 self-titled ep. 

 12)  Random is a 4-piece alternative rock band from Belgrade, Serbia. They have released their debut EP ''Smile and Wave'' in October 2015. Facebook page, Youtube Channel

 13)  Random is an italian artist, Emanuele Caso.

 14)  Random is a punk rock band from Taiwan. 
Youtube Channel
Facebook page
Instagram page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Random">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.