There are six bands with the name Rangers.

1) Rangers is Joe Knight from Dallas, Texas. He makes cosmic tape collages that are heavily rhythmic and psychedelic. He mixes bits and pieces of heavily processed and treated live recordings of guitar, keyboards, bass and percussion with samples of a wide variety of media (commercials, movie samples, jingles, etc.) and found sounds, culminating in long continuous pieces that are truly unique and captivating, but never boringly academic or overly abstract. You can download his music for free via his myspace or various blogs around the internet.

2) A Norwegian rock band from Arendal in the south of Norway. The band consists of
Alan Always on vocals, Rex Bull on guitar and backing vocals, Wayne Shadow on bass, and Whip Justice on drums.

Rangers has played festival gigs at Raumarock and Canal Street and also won the contest "Øresus" at Raumarock.

3) Rangers was a punk/melodic hardcore band from the city of Szczecin, Poland. It consisted of Michał Biela (voc., bass), presently a member of Ścianka and Kristen, Michał Rychlicki (drums), also a member of Kristen, and Piotr Skotnicki (guitar), an ex-member of punk band Reżim. They recorded their first album entiltled "1" in 1998 for Pasażer Records. The songs on the album were fast-paced hc/punk tracks, which, however, were extremely melodic. The band played music similar to that of The Almighty Trigger Happy, Millencollin, or Pridebowl. The lyrics were mostly about feeling bad about oneself, loneliness, and low self esteem, which makes Rangers a precursor of emo in Poland.    

After recording the album, Biela and Rychlicki lost interest in playing punk music and devoted themselves entirely to their up-to-then side project Kristen, in which they created experimental, half-improvised music, that had nothing to do with punk. Rangers decided to record their last album, half of which were recorded in the old line up, and the other half with a new vocalist, Kopek, an ex-member of punk band Oko. The album was published again by Pasażer Records and entitled "2". Both albums were only available on cassettes, not on cd's; so the band is somewhat forgotten. 

4) Rangers, aka Plavci, is a Czech folk band formed in 1964. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rangers_(band)

5) Rangers are an obscure 1960's garage surf rock band. Instrumental: Mogul Monster

6) Rangers are a duo from Birmingham, UK, who produce music in a range of genres, including indie, folk and electronic. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rangers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.