There are multiple artists using this name.

1. Jersey City rapper Randy Nicholls, better known as Ransom, was originally born in Brooklyn, NY in September 1980. His father's slaying and mother's serious illness forced Nichols to stay in foster care and group homes few years, but he and his mother eventually relocated to Jersey City when he was about eight years old. A lifestyle of selling drugs, which landed him in and out of jail as a teen, ensued; however, the young rapper wanted out. In 2000, he and his friends put up money to buy a recording studio, which initiated Nicholl’s rap career under the moniker Ransom. Not long afterwards, he teamed up with fellow rapper Hitchcock & Joe Budden to form the A-Team. Budden would leave the group shortly after. Known for their Hardhood Classics street albums, the two became staples on the mixtape circuit in New Jersey, but barely dented the scene in neighboring New York. After a deal with Def Jam didn't pan out, the two went their separate ways around 2006. Ransom did not lose much momentum, constantly appearing on DJ Clue mixtapes as well as shelling out his own, including the Best in the City volumes and Ransom Note. In 2007, Ransom received some press over traded lyrical barbs with Joe Budden, also a Jersey City native, who included a verse from Ransom and Hitchcock on his Mood Muzik 3 mix album, claiming a reunion by the defunct A-Team. Later that year, Ransom geared up to release his Street Cinema mixtape, distributed via N.Y. indie Babygrande. ~ Cyril Cordor, Rovi

2. Hardcore/southern rock band from London town, formed in 2008. Known as Ransom(uk)

3. Ransom is a christian hard rock/metal band from the late 80's/early 90's, fronted by female vocalist Lisa Faxon. They released 2 albums, the first was simply called Ransom, and the second Soul Asylum.

4. Local Philly band. At one time had George from Blacklisted singing.

5. Local now defunct  pop-punk band from Berlin (Germany). 
The band consisted of Christoph Reiling (drums, vocals), Timo Richard (bass, vocals),
Stefan Kühnemund (guitar, vocals) and Jan Wirth (guitar, vocals).
Ransom provided part of the soundtrack for the Plug&Play windsurfing movie. Songs used for the movie can be found on their album "Escape from Suburbia" which was released in 2003.

6. American Aor/Melodic Rock band. They released 'Trouble in Paradise' in 1997. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ransom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.