There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Rasa is a group from San Francisco, CA, United States, formed in 1998 by Kim Waters (vocals) and Hans Christian (cello). Rasa's music is based on Indian devotional songs from the Vaishnava tradition. Many of India's finest writers have provided songs in praise of God or expressed a yearning to be closer to the Divine - a desire that has inspired many artists, from many cultures, for many years. Combining these songs with their unique arrangements, Rasa has developed a sound that is soulful, respectful of the traditional sources, and very accessible to a western audience. Their music blends meditative, transcendental, and ethereal qualities into an elegant, contemporary style.

Kim Waters is a distinguished illustrator and singer whose publications include Illuminations from the Bhagavad Gita, Enchanted Tales, The Butter Thief, The Vrindavan Fold-out Temple, and Devi, a fold-out altar. She has been singing devotional songs of the Vaisnava saints for many years, inspired by the mystical teachings and rich cultural heritage of India. To describe the path that led Kim Waters into the public eye as the singer of Rasa one has to sift through many stories and historical anecdotes.

Hans Christian's musical journey began many years ago in Germany by studying the cello. "I started to play when I was nine years old and had a private teacher for 10 years. Although my teacher imposed a strict and disciplined approach to learning the instrument I remember him fondly; he was preparing me to go to the music conservatory to become a professional cellist. Deep in my heart, though, I knew all along that this was not going to happen." His life was to unfold along different lines.

2) Rasa is a Lithuanian singer.

3) Rasa was an R&B/Soul band from Ithaca, NY, United States.

4 Rasa is a Japanese electronic project of Bayaka's members Mitsuru and Teruo.

5 RASA is a progressive folk band from Newfoundland fronted by Erin Best & Sandy Morris. Their first album NEOPREHISTORIC garnered incredible critical success and was quickly picked up by 2 national distributors.  RASA has toured Canada and New England, played on the East Coast Music Awards and the Pantene Pro-Voice Finals. Their single SUMO from their second album URBAN AMBROSIA, was a great success nationally.

The song came about while Erin was doing an art history degree at McGill. Sandy had flown in for a week to do some collaborative songwriting. They began writing the song in an abandoned floor in the McGill Music Library and Erin finished it while walking down Ste. Catherines. “I wrote the last word as I was on the Ste. Laurent crosswalk. It was a very Mary Tyler-Moore moment.”

6) Rasa is a Russian band.

7) Rasa is a Finnish band.

Note: If you are here for the Latvian folk group, please change your tags to Ensemble Rasa. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rasa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.