There are multiple artists with the name Ratking:

1) RATKING (stylized as RATKING) is an American hip hop group formed in New York City, New York in 2011. They are currently signed to HXC Recordings, as well as their independent record label Letter Racer Records. The group currently consists of rapper Wiki and rapper-producer Sporting Life.

They released their debut EP Wiki93 in November 2012. It was based on 1993, an earlier mixtape produced solely by Wiki, which he released in October 2011. 1993 was inspired by Suicide and Wu-Tang Clan. The group were signed by British label XL Recordings following 1993, and they re-released it as Wiki93 through their Hot Charity imprint.

They released their debut album So It Goes in 2014. It was produced by Sporting Life and engineered by Young Guru. The album's title was inspired by Kurt Vonnegut's novel Slaughterhouse-Five. The album featured collaborations with King Krule, Salomon Faye, and Princess Nokia.

They have performed with Skepta and toured with Death Grips, and Earl Sweatshirt, as well as Run the Jewels and Despot.

In January 2015 the group announced that their second album 700 Fill would be released in January or February 2015. It was released for free via BitTorrent in March 2015.

On June 21, 2016, Hak announced his departure from Ratking, citing no ill feelings towards Wiki and Sporting Life, but saying the reason for his departure was feeling like he was being left out of the group and wanting to branch out into new possibilities with his music and art. Though, the same day, Wiki posted two vaguely cryptic tweets on his Twitter account possibly aimed towards Hak and his departure, saying "Ima make it clear. Bridges burnt are bridges burnt," and "The amount of times this dude fucked me over..." Also on the same day, amid rumors that Ratking had officially broken up, it was confirmed that Ratking would continue as a duo with Wiki and Sporting Life.

Their music has been described as "left-field hip-hop", and the group themselves have stated they wish to reinvent rap music. In addition to being inspired by rap and hip hop, the group has also been inspired by punk rock, and has "many and diverse influences, from Animal Collective to Suicide."Wiki's solo EP 1993, later re-released as Wiki93, was inspired by Suicide and Wu-Tang Clan.

2) Ratking is a hardcore / punk band from Perth, Western Australia. They released their first EP titled Wastelander on July 3, 2013, and their debut album Commonwealth released on July 15, 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ratking">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.