There are 4 bands with this name:

First - 
-------

Energetic Rockband from Kemi, Finland. Formed back in 2001. Band started from an idea between couple of friends thinking it would be cool to play some Guns n' Roses covers. Even though Gn'R still remains one of the biggest influences for them, pretty soon it became obvious that playing covers was not the thing for them. Band consists of six different kind of musicians who have gathered their influences from all kinds of music like classical, blues&jazz, funk, hard rock, punk, progressive rock, pop, progressive metal, death metal etc. Because of this, they don't sound just like another hair metal band from the 80's.

Members:

- Matti Vähä, vocals
- Juhana Länttä, lead guitar
- Joonas Alaoja, rhythm guitar
- Antti Toppinen, bass
- Jouni Vaara, drums
- Vesa Hyvönen, keyboards

Demos:

- Chixx With Dixx (tracks "Still There Beyond" and "We Die Young", 2003)
- Two Days In November (tracks "Obsessing Me" and "Pieces", 2004)
- R (tracks "Rings Of Smoke" and "Parasite", 2006)
- On The Wrong Side (tracks "Sides" and "Sucker", 2007)


Second -
--------

A band from Portsmouth, UK.  Guitarist and songwriter Will Wallner formed Rattlesnake in 2006. They are a hard rock band in the style of Guns N Roses and Van Halen.

Will studied at Musicians Institute in Hollywood, California. Whilst studying he specialized in Music Business and Guitar Playing and was introduced to industry professionals who provided guidance and career advice.

Rattlesnake met whilst studying 'Music and Sound Technology' at the University of Portsmouth. Tref Davies (Vocalist) combined his classic rock influences, with Will's Virtuoso style of guitar playing, to create the 'Rattlesnake sound'.  The band is rounded out with bassist Hidi Moro and drummer Torsten Maschmeyer.

Rattlesnake spent a year performing around Portsmouth and Southampton at venues such as 'The Wedgewood Rooms' and 'The Joiners'. They won the local heats of the 'Soundcheck' battle of the bands hosted by 'Walkabout' and sponsored by 'Jack Daniels'. Their record release party was sponsored by 'Apple'. They have received airplay from Express FM (Portsmouth), Pure FM (Portsmouth University) and Surge Radio (Southampton University).

In February 2008, Will Wallner produced Rattlesnake's self-titled debut album. Scheduled for release on the 5th May 2008 under ROCKWILL Records and distributed by CODE 7 via Plastichead. Rattlesnake is currently preparing to tour the south of England in support of their release.

Releases:

Rattlesnake 6 Track EP - September 2007

Rattlesnake - Rattlesnake, 5 May 2008
 Tracklist:  Assault, End Up Dead, Tip Of The Iceberg, Zombietown, Guns Blazing, March Of War, Hired Guns, Rage, Obsessive, Washing The Pain, Hitman, God Have Mercy.

www.rattlesnakerock.co.uk


Third  -
--------

A slovenian rock band
http://www.myspace.com/rattlesnakesloband 
rattlesnake-band.com

Rattlesnake - Rattlesnake, 5 May 2008
 Tracklist:  Assault, End Up Dead, Tip Of The Iceberg, Zombietown, Guns Blazing, March Of War, Hired Guns, Rage, Obsessive, Washing The Pain, Hitman, God Have Mercy.


Fourth - 
---------
A Indonesian Southern Rock Band

Rattlesnake was formed in the early of 2009 consists of :
Anggara Budhi (vocal), 
Dena Rendisah. P (guitar), 
Henry Afriandi (bass), and
Sony Mulyana (drum). 

Inspired by bands like Alabama Thunderpussy, Orange Goblin, Pantera, Black Label Society, Down, Motorhead, etc, they try to get it to the surface.

Rattlesnake release  "Down the Mountain EP"  on 2013.
For the Rattlesnake LP album is already recording progress, and will be released on 2014.

More info, please check our band page at:
http://www.myspace.com/rattlesnakerules
http://www.facebook.com/pages/RATTLE-SNAKE/110049929190
Twitter: @rattlesnakerock <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/RattleSnake">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.