1) The origins of Ravendusk reach the year 1997. The first months oh the band's activity were spent on completion of equipment and intensive work on compositions. At that time some personal changes took place, to. Ravendusk played several local concerts and became well-know on metal music stage in Lublin. In 1999, using their own financial means, members of the band recorded a demo tape with four compositions - "Tears Shall Burn".

The year 2000 was the time of recording of a new material - "Shadowcast" in Marton Studio in Lublin. The band signed a onctract with Slovakian label - Metal Age Prod. The album was released in late 2002 and comprised seven compositions in gothic/black metal style. Then came the time of playing many concerts and also creating new material. Early spring 2004 Ravendusk spent on composing music for a new album and making a video clip for "Forge Of the Will".

In June Patryk Syty, guitarist and co-founder of Ravendusk, left the band. He worked with the band on "Tears Shall Burn" (1999) and "Shadowcast" (2000). With a new guitarist, Lukasz Salega, the band played concerts and got ready for recording a full time album. However, many problems the band and to deal with made the recording session prostponed. At the beginning od 2005 Ravendysk together with Climate form Chelm played concerts in Czech republic. In May Michal Salomon temporaily left the band and his place was taken by Cyprian Naumiuk.

June was spent on recording the newst promo "Astroblack" which was released in autumn 2005. In December Michal Salomon and Lukasz Salega left the band. Then Cyprian Naumiuk followed them. The year 2006 brought new changes. Two new guitarists, Wojciech Lichota and Lukasz Duleba, joined the band. It was also the time of intensive promotion Ravendusk, first flattering reviews of "Astroblack" appeared in underground press.

Thanks to support of Metal Rulez Prod., Spanish Mondongo Canibale Records took Ravendusk under its wings. And for this label the band recorded in new arrangements material from "Astroblack" and also new compositions. In February 2007 Ravendusk signed a contract for the latest full time album "Astroblack Advent". Soon after realeaing the album Wojciech Lichota left the band.

2) There is also a black metal band from Finland, named Ravendusk. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ravendusk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.