It was late 1999 in Adelaide, Australia when these four warriors of the night met. Without speaking they knew what had to be achieved. In their minds they had a plan to bring the world sounds of love, hate, war, peace, doom and destruction. There was the White Knight, with his powerful vocals and his soul bleeding guitar rifs and leads. He would be the one who leads these four into battle. Next is the Duke, who could keep the ancient beats with meticulous timing for the musical mayhem that would follow. Then there was the Black Knight, a man whose brutal weapon of choice was his thunderous bass while his mighty vocals sing to the beasts in the night Finally there was the Raven. He was the one who kept the rhythm with his powerful guitar sound and gut wrenching riffing. With the stage set up with candles, swords and shields, a raven black night show is an experience that cannot be forgotten easily. With a range of haunting songs that will bring out the good and evil in everyone that encounters their powerful and unique force. Raven Black night have many influences, from the might ancient masters such as Black Sabbath, Dio, Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin, Jimi Hendrix, Kiss and St Vitus to the more chaotic and modern sounds of Sleep, Slayer, Iron Maiden, Paradise Lost, Cathedral and High on Fire. Late 2000 saw the release of Raven’s first demo, simply titles Demo 2000. This was highly accepted locally and overseas by the metal and gothic scenes alike. Also, it was that time that the original drummer, The Godfather (Jeremy) departed from the band. After many months of searching, the Jester (Adrian) was found, and again Raven Black Knight gigged the local scene. Twelve months after recording the Morbid Gladiator 2002AD demo, the Jester departed and in stepped Dragon’s Breath (Ben from Deluge/Slaughter Thou fame). After six months, a permanent replacement was found in the Duke[joe] The bands performance at Sydney’s Morbid Tales Metal Festival was greeted with great enthusiasm from all who attended ,the band also impresed at 2005 s blood lust festival in sydeny,successful appearances at all Armageddon festivals in Adelaide and recant apperance at the evil invaders festival in melbourne further enhanced Raven Black Night’s reputation a first class live act which saw the band recived enthusiasticaly when they returned to melbourne in late 2006. The band entered the studio in 2003 to record a full length cd,released in 2005 the bands debut choose the dark got amazing reveiws and sales in europe,america,south america and australia leading to major festival offers in germany,the band was also featured in heavy germanys biggest metal mag appearing on a compalation of new bands with there track morbid gladiator,the band also had there track my love is holy track on underearthed three featuring new australain metal bands and depth charge four featured morbid gladiator,a brief line up change occured in late 2006 with the dead night paul h joining on bass and growls and death vocals and ben sheenan the earl of darkness below [formely dragons breath]rejoining the outfit on drums and growl death vocals, in july 2007 the band ripped up the stage at headbangers open air germany with a blistering set winning over many new fans and those who had waited to see the band for some time they also blew the roof of the famous ballroom in st pauli hamburg for the head bangers open air after show party, further adding to the legand of the bands live peformances,further apperances at hells pleasure in possneck where the band won over a receptive extreme metal audience and blew the band away with the response showed raven black nights music is for all who love metal rock,in euskchichin at the hard and heavy summer nights raven black night recived many requests for encores and their peformance was rated one of the best in 10 years of the festival the band thank the many fans and freinds they met in europe for there kindness and generousity,raven black nights founding members jim the white knight[guitar,vocals] and rino the raven [guitar] will record a new cd as a follow up to 2005s choose the dark and hope to tour australia this year for the bands long term fans and return to europe in 2008 and play u.s.a,and south america in the future,current lineup includes chris the dark[bass,vocals] and powerhouse drummer phil the bezerker,the band will return to live peformances soon for now stay free,stay metal and keep rocking!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raven+Black+Night">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.