There is more than one band with the name Raw Deal.

1) Raw Deal was formed in 1988 by Carl Porcaro, Rich McLoughlin, and Anthony Drago after their former band, Breakdown, another New York hardcore band, split through personal differences. While Breakdown continued as a band without them, Anthony Comunale, formerly of Token Entry, was recruited on vocals and Mike Sentkiewitz, formerly of Sick Of It All, on guitar to round out the Raw Deal line-up.

The band then recorded a demo cassette and set about playing at various venues in New York, most notably at CBGB's which was home to many hardcore punk acts at the time, including Agnostic Front, Warzone, Sick Of It All, Gorilla Biscuits, and Murphy's Law. They also created a second demo which remained uncirculated because, after a show at the Ritz Theatre in New York City, they were signed to the In Effect Records label, a part of Relativity Records, with a view to recording their first full-length album. Mike Sentkiewitz left the band and they were forced to change their name to Killing Time after legal action was threatened by a heavy metal band of the same name. Killing Time went on to record two full lengths, three EPs and to appear on a few compilations. The Raw Deal demo was reissued by Dead Serious Recordings in 2005 as a 7".

2) (Jim Robins-London, UK) is known for having a sound that is completely his own. He has proved his skills both as a beat-builder and an arranger, with his combinations of contemporary sounds and programming alongside full horn, string and rhythm sections. He is an excellent remixer with satisfied customers such as Courtney Pine, Ahmen Rah and Urban Species [Talkin Loud], Shy Fx [Ebony], Snowboy [Acid Jazz], Roy Hargrove's Crisol [Verve] and the Right Tempo label in Italy. As a DJ, he has played all over the world, and has a number of residences.

3)Kent based NWOBHM four piece who recorded their sole single "Out Of My Head", for their own White Witch label.
Unrelated to the Leicester band of the same name who released a sole 7" called "Lone Wolf" on Neat Records the same year.
Rob Child - Vocals, Guitar (Phobia (UK), Official Secrets)
Brian Smith - Bass (Official Secrets)
Paul Reynolds - Guitar
Steve Richardson - Drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raw+Deal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.