Raxas is a metal band from Mexico. 

The following text is from www.metaleros.de


The CD "Esclavos Eternos" is the most obscure in Mexico! Until a while ago I thought this band only released cassette material. They were one of the best Mexican Power Metal bands, that existed in the end of the 80s and beginning of the 90s. The thought, that they were never able to release an official album was really sad. Only after a while I herd the rumour, that there exist an CD, and only after years of search I got a copy from a friend! It was realease on the obscure "Do Do records" label! But it soon disappeared like the extinct bird where they took the name from! All of their releases are quite rare, but the one from RAXAS seems to be the rarest! The band had a lot of problems with his line-up. But they were very active live, and the media reported often about them. At the end, only guitar player Gerardo Girabay was left from the original line-up. But shortly after the beginning, singer Alejandro Schaar joyned, and became the "face" of the band. 

Many years drummer Fernando Benitez was in the band, who later founded  THE SWEET LEAF and  EL DIABLO. 

After some demos they released in 1989 their independent album "Presencia" as cassette. In 1993 followed the CD, which today is almost impossible to find! The material of this band is one of the highlights of Mexican True Metal! It seems that they split in the middle of the 90s. But the potential of the band was still known, and in 2002 a new label released a double CD with the most important material of the band! CD 1 contains the "Presencia" cassette album. CD 2 is the "Esclavos Eternos" album, but in a very different version! Here Arturo Huizar from LUZBEL is the singer, and his markable voice gives the whole album a really different impression (he was a short time member in 1993)! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raxas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.