Hailing from South London, more specifically Croydon, RAYE (real name - Rachel Keen) is a British singer-songwriter. Aside from writing hits for other artists, Raye has bounced between R&B, pop and dance music in regards to her own discography. Her upcoming debut studio album is expected to be released in 2022. 

Raye's debut EP 'Welcome To The Winter' was released in 2014 and was comprised of predominantly R&B sounds. After signing with Polydor Records, Raye had her breakthrough by featuring on the 2016 singles; "By Your Side" by Jonas Blue and "You Don't Know Me" by Jax Jones. The latter, co-written by Raye herself, would peak at number three on the UK Singles Chart. Both songs were certified platinum or higher by the BPI, and marked a shift in Raye's career both commercially and sonically. After releasing the 'Second' EP in 2016, Raye released "I, U, Us" as the lead single alongside a Charli XCX directed music video. This marked the first collaboration of several between the British songwriters. Raye later co-wrote XCX's song "After the Afterparty" and appeared on a remix version, as well as featuring on the track "Dreamer" from her 2017 mixtape 'Number 1 Angel'. Raye was short-listed for the BBC Music Sound of... award for 2017 and was named in third place. Later in the year, Raye released the platinum certified hit "Decline" featuring Mr. Eazi, which would serve as the lead single from her 'Side Tape' EP which followed in May 2018. In October 2018, Raye embarked on her own headlining tour, visiting a number of cities around the UK and Ireland. 

After releasing multiple singles in 2019 and 2020, Raye's debut mini-album, 'Euphoric Sad Songs' was released on 20 November 2020. The project featured the top 10 hit "Secrets" with Regard as well as "Regardless" with Rudimental. In early 2021, Raye released the single "Bed" with Joel Corry and David Guetta. The song would peak at number three on the UK Singles Chart, becoming Raye's highest charting single as a lead artist on the chart. Later in the year, Raye took to social media to reveal that her record label, Polydor Records, has been withholding her debut album for several years. Following the statements, Raye disclosed in July that she is now officially an independent artist. 

Raye was brought up in a musical family - her parents met at church - both of them musicians in the parish, and her musical heritage goes right back to her Grandfather, who was a songwriter and musician in his own right. Since the age of 10, she's been writing her own music, slowly developing all the time to become the artist she is today. Along the way, Raye has become confidently adept at various different instruments including the cello, flute, and piano, alongside honing her production skills (and learning  to play the guitar). Music has always been a huge part of Raye's life. Brought up on the classic soul/jazz maestros of the 40's and 50's like Nina Simone, Ella Fitzgerald, Nat King Cole etc - this is where her love for songwriting and melody began. Since then her influences, have aligned with the times, citing Drake, and her all time hero Lauryn Hill as huge sources of inspiration. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raye">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.