There are two artists with the name Razer:
1) BIO Phoenix, AZ-based rock/metal outfit Razer was formed from the ashes of Metal Blade Records artist Wardog by bassist Chris Catero, guitarist Paul Sullivan and drummer Eric Bongiorno. Guitarist Jeromy Graves joined the fold soon after and the band started writing songs and gigging with Catero reluctantly serving as lead vocalist. Even though they hadn’t found the lead singer they were looking for just yet the band honed their writing chops and turned themselves into one of Phoenix’s premier local acts, opening for the likes of Judas Priest as well as other national acts that came through. Eventually an LA-based online ad placed by former Shift singer Chris Powers ended the exhaustive search as the band found “the voice” and the voice found “the band”. The new quintet quickly gelled with their efforts resulting in late 2006’s independently released “Falling In Line” album. The band’s heavy sound, mixed with exceptionally strong songwriting and Power’s powerhouse vocals, caught the ear of the staff at Phoenix’s KUPD radio station who started supporting the band locally, placing Razer on station sponsored shows and giving them the occasional spin even though the station doesn’t rotate unsigned acts. The album also garnered the attention of music biz professionals, resulting in Powers being selected by Guitar Hero video game song producer Steve Ouimette to sing on the game ending “The Devil Went Down To Georgia” on “Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock”. During this time bassist Catero was asked to serve as touring bassist for ex-Megadeth guitarist Marty Friedman on his European and Japanese tours, also resulting in the live “Exhibit A: Live in Europe” cd and the “Exhibit B: Live in Japan” dvd. It also caught the attention of 116 Productions producers Chuck Alkazian and Matt Novesky (also bassist in Universal artist Blue October) who started working with the band in 2008 and are currently finishing their new album. The songs are a combination of muscular and heavy riffs, tight arrangements, evolved musical playing and true pop sensibilities, making for a unique blend that appeals to both the average radio listener and the most avid pit mosher! QUICK FACTS · Bassist Chris Catero also serves as the head of artist relations and domestic sales for international guitar amp manufacturer Krank Amplification which touts Metallica, Fall Out Boy, Toby Keith, Yellowcard, Shadows Fall and many others as users and endorsees. · Singer Chris Powers, besides appearing on two tracks on the video game “Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock”, also appears in the forthcoming “Rock Revolution” video game · Razer was one of 15 acts to be selected by Disc Maker’s for their International World Series of Music compilation, and the only heavy rock act to be featured. The song “Superpaun” was also featured in Disc Maker’s instructional dvd “Achieving Success with Your Music: Hard-Hitting Tips on Marketing, A&R, Record Labels and Increasing the Income You Make with Music” (2007) · Razer has been featured in Guitar World Magazine’s “Introducing” column as well as being the unsigned artist of the month is Japan’s prestigious Burrn! Magazine · Razer has shared the stage with Shinedown, Five Finger Death Punch, Judas Priest, Hurt, Jet Black Stare and others For additional information, pictures, show dates and music downloads please visit our website at www.razerband.com 

2) Columbus, Ohio based band headed by Josh Kayser. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Razer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.