There're, at least, Four acts using the name: Raze (the house music group)  Raze (Christian pop group) Raze (Hip-Hop artist)Raze (Alternative metal band in South East England)

Raze (house music group) is a electronic dance music group assembled by instrumentalist and producer Vaughan Mason. He is the same Vaughan Mason who produced the hit "Bounce, Rock, Skate, Roll" for Brunswick Records in 1979. The group also contained vocalist Keith Thompson. They hit number one on the U.S. Hot Dance Club Play chart in 1988 with "Break 4 Love". The song also crossover to Urban radio stations where it became a moderate hit and remains a favourite on the Urban radio format to this day. "Break 4 Love" hit number one on the dance chart again in 2001 when it was covered by Peter Rauhofer and the Pet Shop Boys under the name The Collaboration.
In October 2004 "Break 4 Love" appeared in popular videogame Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, playing on house music radio station SF-UR.

Raze (Christian pop group)  was a Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Christian pop group formed by vocalists Donnie Lewis, Ja'Marc Davis, J.D. Webb,  and Mizzie Logan . They are perhaps best known for their song "Always and Forever" , found on their premier album Power. On the groups 2000 release "The Plan" J.D. Webb was replaced with Todd Hanebrink.
Sadly the band formally disbanded on November 12, 2001.

Raze (Hip-Hop artist): From Tony Touch mixtapes to Unsigned Hype columns to Fight Klub titles, New York City's Raze has been through it all. After a failed label situation with Loud as a member of Ghetto Inmates, Raze has re-immerged on the scene with an onslaught of heat. Garnering the attention of Heavyweights in the game like DJ Muggs, The Beatnuts and The Alchemist, and touring with M1 from Dead Prez and Talib Kweli, it's only a matter of time before Raze is a household name.

Raze (Alternative metal band from south east england)
Raze are an alternative metal band based in South East England, fusing modern metal grooves and technical solos with the raw emotion of nineties grunge.

Although initially established in 2014, it was not until December 2017 that the band released their debut EP Fallen Apart; compiling songs written during their formative years. The release was promoted via a run of shows throughout 2018 around Hertfordshire and surrounding counties; spearheaded by a sell-out London release show and concluding with a slot supporting Chris Holmes of W.A.S.P.

Come 2019 Raze have become a force within the underground scene; touring around the South East of England whilst simultaneously writing new music for their highly-anticipated first album, set for release in 2020.

The band draws from an array of influences, from the emotive sound of Alice In Chains, Pearl Jam and Creed; through to the technicality, aggression and grooves exhibited by groups such as Machine Head and Pantera.

Raze consists of vocalist Louis Dunham, guitarists Daniel Eveleigh and Jack Ilott, bassist Ashley Rollings-Huffer and drummer Ethan Morter. http://www.raze-band.co.uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Raze">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.