*Previously known as Gaywyre

The initial idea for the band Razorwyre was conceived by Chris Calavrias and James Murray in 2008, both of whom had a strong desire to write and perform heavy metal music in the true style of the 1980's. Though ideas were discussed and initial material was written, it wasn't until later when the project began to come to fruition. Through partying at the notorious Lorne Street practice space, the two guitarists met like-minded individuals who shared the passion for traditional forms of metal music.  Drummer Nick was recruited first, followed by bassist Simon, and finally vocalist Z Chylde.

Razorwyre formed in early 2009 under the temporary banner 'Gaywyre' and promptly set about spreading beer-fuelled mayhem and true, traditional heavy metal throughout hometown Wellington, and laying waste to the cities of New Zealand. Gathering a reputation for an aggressive, thrashing blend of 80s inspired heavy metal, and an energetic, raucous party-atmosphere live show, the band soon began to assemble a loyal following, playing to sweaty crowds and with various big name acts.

The band formed with the idea of playing heavy metal in the classic vein to today's hungry, metal-starved listeners, and set about writing and recording a debut EP, which after an anticipated several months, finally hit the streets in December 2009, with copies selling out in just a few short months, including sales in Europe and North America, prompting the idea of a limited edition reprint of the CD.

With things progressing and the band's reputation growing, coupled with the development of a harder-edged sound developing, The 'Wyre decided a new name was needed - in order to reflect the changing nature of their speed metal assault. A joint decision was made by an excited band to rebrand the project Razorwyre, in April, 2010, which captured the violent, thrashing tone of the music. Razorwyre set about a new campaign of complete heavy metal annihilation on the cities of New Zealand, and beyond. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Razorwyre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.