1. Razzle Dazzle was formed in 1989 in Rotterdam (The Netherlands) by ex heavy metal guitar player Hans Bakker from the band Hellraiser (his own band) and bass player Henk Maasbach from the hard rock band Vendetta. (both of them played in the Dutch hard rock band Target, so not the famous U.S. band Target) They teamed up with punk rock drummer Ger Bresser who came from a little village near Rotterdam. They couldn’t find a lead singer so Hans Bakker became leadsinger and played leadguitar.

In Fons de Roon they found the basic guitar player. In a short time they made name as a sometimes very heavy blues-rock band and they played in lots of bars and on lots of festivals.

Most of the songs were covers but Empty Bottles, the music not the lyrics from Little red rooster, Blues without a blame and a few others were written by Hans Bakker. Mostly these songs were heavier.

In a period of 5 years they went every year to a studio from a friend (the studio had no name but we called it the Chickenfarm because there also was one there) to record these demos. (in those days on tape and cassette). When after 4 years Ger Bresser was leaving the band, they were unable to find a good replacement and so drummer Hans van Aanhold and mouth harp player Paul Kersbergen joined the band. This lasted 1 year. Because the music was changing from heavy blues rock to easier blues, Hans Bakker and Henk Maasbach decided to quit the band.

It was a great period and we enjoyed every moment of it but the time for Razzle Dazzle has ended in 1994. (Hans Bakker) 

Above Source: http://southernbluesrock.blogspot.com/2012/01/razzle-dazzle-lost-chickenfarm-demos.html

2. Razzle Dazzle was a hardcore punk band from france who released one LP and then quit two months later.

3. Razzle Dazzle is a party hardcore band from Detroit. Commonly known as RZL DZL

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Razzle+Dazzle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.