RDGLDGRN (pronounced Red Gold Green) is an American band based out of Reston, Virginia (a suburb of Washington, DC) that was formed in 2011. The band recorded their debut album at Sound City Studios in 2012 with producer Kevin Augunas and engineer Clif Norrell. They have worked with a wide range of notable musicians, including Dave Grohl and Pharrell Williams. RDGLDGRN released their debut self-titled full-length album in September 2013.

In the fall of 2011, RDGLDGRN recorded their breakout song I Love Lamp and uploaded their self-produced and directed music video to YouTube, where it reached over 100,000 hits within days. In the spring of 2012, RDGLDGRN recorded their debut album at Sound City Studios with Kevin Augunas (The Lumineers and Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeroes), producer and founder of Fairfax Recordings. The group asked fellow Northern Virginia native Dave Grohl, who was filming his Sound City documentary, to drum on I Love Lamp. Grohl agreed and played drums for the entire record, with the exception of Million Fans, which features a sampled breakbeat. An additional Virginia native became involved when Pharrell Williams co-wrote and co-produced Doing the Most.

In June 2012, the demo recording of I Love Lamp was used as the theme song for the world record Hot Wheels Double Loop Dare at the 2012 X Games in Los Angeles, California. In January 2013, British magazine NME released Million Fans. Days later, Rolling Stone released I Love Lamp with Dave Grohl on drums. The Red Gold Green EP was debuted February 12, 2013 and reached the top 100 on the American iTunes album chart. RDGLDGRN made their television debut on Jimmy Kimmel Live! in March 2013 performing both I Love Lamp and Million Fans. RDGLDGRN performed at SXSW in March 2013, the DC101 Chili Cook-Off in May 2013, and the Vans Warped Tour 2013. RDGLDGRN released their debut self-titled full-length album in September 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/RDGLDGRN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.