Re-Armed have been around since 2001, when five guys from Kerava, Finland decided to start playing similar music likened to so-called "Gothenburg metal". Their musical style has evolved along with many critically acclaimed demo tapes, gigs, lineup changes and a well recieved debut album ‘Worldwide Hypnotize’, which was released internationally on January 2012 via Massacre Records. After releasing their debut, the band supported names such as Chimaira, Suffocation, Origin, Cattle Decapitation and Cryptopsy for the tours in Europe. In this year Re-Armed also made their first big out door festival appearance at Bloodstock Open Air at Catton Hall in the UK.

The second album ‘Rottendam’ was released on January 2014 via Eternal Sound Records, but major lineup changes froze the band almost for a year. Former guitarist/songwriter Tommi Helkalahti decided to leave the band - leaving vocalist Jouni Matilainen as the only current former member in the band.

In 2015 the new lineup is in order faster than expected. Self-released single/EP "Total Lack of Communication" was released on August 2015 and the band toured even in China to support the release. With fresh blood in veins the band will tour and release their third album 'The Era of Precarity'.

"The third album reflects the new era of Re-Armed. The Era of Precarity is fully conceptual album where each track dives into dystopian-world that you would never want to live in. The theme is flirting with future scenarios and today’s world politics. While retaining our known musical influences and style, we wanted to bring more to the table than just the sounds of our previous records. The songs contain aggressive sound of Death/Thrash metal and groovy Death Metal while adding new influences; crushing Stoner Rock, fast and brutal Black Metal and even classic Heavy Metal! Even the production is now on the next level. With our highly skilled sound engineer and experienced band crew we were able to capture the best tones the band has ever offered."

‘The Era of Precarity’ is out in Finland on September 16 and rest of the world follows on September 30, 2016 via Saarni Records.

LINEUP:
Jussi Venäläinen - Guitars
Juhana Heinonen - Bass and Backup Vocals
Jouni Matilainen - Lead Vocals
Mika Oinonen - Guitars and Backup Vocals
Iiro Karjalainen - Drums

MERITS:
Headlining tour in China “Territorial Expansion – China Tour
(14 shows - Sep/Oct 2015 – China)

Headlining tour in UK with WRETCHED SOUL “Marcha Do Império Morto-Vivo” - UK Tour
(9 shows - Nov 2013 - United Kingdom)

Appearance at Neurotic Deathfest 2013
(May 2013 - 013, Tilburg - Netherlands)

Support act for CRYPTOPSY, CATTLE DECAPITATION and DECREPIT BIRTH on their UK & EU Tour
(4 shows - May 2013 - United Kingdom)

Appearance at Bloodstock Open Air 2012
(Aug 2012 - Catton Hall, Derbyshire - United Kingdom)

Support act for SUFFOCATION and ORIGIN on their "The End of Humanity" - EU Tour
(17 shows - Jul 2012 – Slovenia, Croatia, Slovakia, Italy, France, Denmark, Germany and Netherlands)

Support act for CHIMAIRA on their "The Age of Hell" - EU tour
(6 shows - Mar/Apr 2012 - Belgium, Netherlands and Germany)

And support shows and showcases during the years with: Arch Enemy, Keep of Kalessin, Amorphis, Eternal Tears of Sorrow, Diablo, Nicole, Kalmah, Profane Omen, Gloomy Grim, Rytmihäiriö, Pagan Rites, Catamenia, Battlelore, Total Devastation, Agathodaimon.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Re-Armed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.