Re-Animator is a British Thrash Metal band from Hull, England.

Formed in 1988 and after releasing two well recieved demo tapes, Re-animator joined the thrash metal wave with their debut six-track mini-album, 1989's 'Deny Reality', issued through Music For Nations subsidiary Under One Flag. The group, having scored their deal with their prevoius demo cut at Animal Tracks Studios in Hull during March 1988.

The band comprised lead vocalist / rhythm guitarist Kev Ingleson,  guitarist Mike "Dis-Able" Abel,bassist John Hanson and drummer Mark Mitchell. These  tracks were laid down with a session singer, Tony Calvert of Welsh Thrashers Tortoise Corpse.

On the live front, Re-animator toured as support to Exodus, Nuclear Assault and Acid Reign. It was Acid Reign's bass player Ian who helped get the band signed as he  passed on Re-Animator's demo to Under One Flag. The band was managed initially by  Music For Nations owner Martin Hookerthen then Nuclear Assault manager Paul Loasby. 1990's  'Condemned To Eternity' bolstered their reputation but the band then undertook a  severe left turn in their brand of music adopting then in-vogue Funk for their third  album, 1991's 'Laughing'. Having gathered fans with their previous two albums,  Re-animator's liberal us of horn sections, odes to Laurel and Hardy, an unaccredited  acapella stab at Monty Python's 'Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life' and even a  dash of reggae did not serve them well.

Line-up changes affected the band too, with  Ingleson and Abel being superseded by singer Lee Robinson and guitarist Adam Clarke,  as Grahame Dixon was enrolled on rhythm guitar. The final 1992 outing 'That Was Then...This Is Now', included a cover version of Thin Lizzy's 'Cold Sweat'.

John Wilson resurfaced in  Ska band Badness and Mark Mitchell journeyed through punk band The Happy Durals before  enrolling into a Hawkwind covers band as 'Denbo Drumwind'. The CD re-issue of  'Condemned To Eternity' additionally contained the 'Deny Reality' mini-album.

MySpace Page: www.myspace.com/reanimatorukthrash <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Re-Animator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.