The group consists of vocalist Melvin Riley with Gordon Strozier, David Sparks, Gregory Potts, Willie Triplett, John Eaton, and Gerald Valentine. Here is some background information on Ready For The World from the Oh Sheila Songfacts. Ready for the World hails from Flint, Michigan - setting of Roger & Me - and the Minneapolis sound was all the rage. Named after a lyric from a song from their debut album called "Ceramic Girl," They had a modest underground hit in Detroit and Flint with their first single "Tonight," which was helped by airplay on the Detroit radio station WJLB, where the song was championed by a DJ called The Electrifying Mojo. This got them signed to MCA Records, who released "Tonight," followed by "Deep Inside Your Love," which both went Top 10 on the R&B charts. It was the third single, "Oh Sheila," that was the breakout hit, going to #1 on the Dance, R&B, and Hot 100 charts. The song "Digital Display" followed and hit #21, and the group returned to the Top 10 in 1987 when "Love You Down" climbed to #9.

When the band later separated, lead singer Melvin Riley went on to record solo albums, one in 1994 and one in 2000. A Ready For The World reunion album followed in 2004 featuring mostly urban sexy slow jams, that opened doors for " Marcus Cole ", Of ((Multi-Platinum Gospel  All-Stars " Commisioned ",)) and many more young artist
and new writers and producers. Stoneage Entertainment  Recording Artist "DAWAN" was also another Allstar Discovered on this voyage RFTW, was on From 1992 until 2004 and helped to create the Urban sexy slow jams that filled the 2004 album with songs that he and Marcus Cole brought  lead vocals through while Melvin was away for some brilliant career moves and life comforting experiences, And the entire cast of Michigan Artist, Actually had a chance to Display thier  talents through this Sensational All-Star Band. A New BAND with The Sauce Still, Is None Other Than Ready For The World!! with hands down!!!!!!!!




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ready+For+The+World">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.