Real McCoy is a German music group best known in America for the platinum and gold selling crossover singles "Another Night" and "Run Away," and the double-platinum album Another Night.

Before 1995, Real McCoy was known in Europe as M.C. Sar & The Real McCoy.The producer duo responsible for the group's success, Juergen Wind (J. Wind) and Frank Hassas (Quickmix), initially wrote and produced the group's breakout single, "Another Night", in Berlin, Germany in 1993. During the early stages of the group's European success in 1993, German rapper Olaf Jeglitza (O-Jay) and American singer Patricia Petersen (Patsy) fronted the act as a duo. By 1994, singer Vanessa Mason had joined the group as the third member of the live act. At the peak of the group's mainstream crossover success in 1995, Jeglitza, Petersen and Mason officially became a trio act under the shortened group name Real McCoy. Many years after the break up of the group, Petersen and Mason were revealed to have not been the real singers of the act. Both women had in fact been miming the vocals of studio singer Karin Kasar for all the group's music videos and live performances. Kasar was also never officially credited for singing vocals for all the group's music releases between 1993 to 1995.

The final Real McCoy album One More Time was released in 1997. Wind produced the album without Hassas' involvement. After Petersen's departure from the group, singer Lisa Cork was recruited into the act by American songwriter/producer Brent Argovitz. As a result, Kasar did not return to record vocals for the album. Cork and Mason instead recorded the singing vocals while Jeglitza and Argovitz worked together as songwriters for the production. The lead single (also titled One More Time) achieved major commercial success in Canada and Australia, but the commercial sales of the album itself worldwide in comparison to the previous album were considered a disappointment. The failure ultimately caused the quick demise of the group in 1997. In the years after the breakup, Jeglitza continued to independently release new singles under the name Real McCoy without Wind or Hassas' involvement. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Real+McCoy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.