Hailing from South Italy, Reality Grey stands tall in the Italian metal scene. Formed in 2004, Reality Grey began their quest to redefine melodic death metal. As a tight-knit 5 piece band, Reality Grey incorporates a modern hybrid of extreme music: melody, brutality; blending complex, yet catchy songwriting. Fearsome death growls & clean vocals give way to razorsharp guitar riffs and fusion-oriented solos, Reality Grey set out to create something all their own.

With the release of the debut full-length album "Darkest Days Are Yet To Come" in 2006, in the heat of the melodic death metal revolution, Reality Grey managed to secure their first record deal with Razar Ice Records USA. Songs like "Reality Grey" and "Never again" racked up hundreds of thousands plays on the old MySpace allowing the band to tour, gaining popularity well beyond the Italian borders. Following up with EP "Day Zero'', Reality Grey began to push their own boundaries. Ferocious, yet melodic, with no-hold-barred songwriting attitude. Songs like "Day Zero" and "Slavery" emerged the band's experimental side, synths, melancholic pianos and acoustic guitars; perfectly fused with an intoxicating sonic aggression.

After years of non-stop touring alongside bands like Deicide, Unearth, Municipal Waste, Sadist, Malevolent Creation and more, the critically acclaimed "Define Redemption" is released by Bakerteam/Scarlet Records; sending the band on their first headline tour in Japan. Reality Grey, now having been featured on worldwide publications Metal Injection, Metal Hammer UK, Metal Temple, and Metal.de, released 2018's "The Void". Reviewed as “a complete and total aural devastation...” that “will blow your speaker out” by Metal Injection.

In May 2021 Reality Grey released the third album "Beneath This Crown" with three singles "Multidimensional Hollow", "Powerblast" and "Preachers of Hatred" that premiered on various popular publications like MetalInjection, The Pit, Decibel Magazine,  Braveweords, Gear Gods and SickDrummer Magazine. The new release was very well received both by critic and fans alike. "Preachers of Hatred" video passed the 100K views on YouTube and the album topped #2 and #4 in the US Apple Music and iTunes Death Metal charts, had three singles in Switzerland's  Top 50 iTunes Rock Charts.

The new EP "The Eye Of The Storm" is out on April 18th 2022 on Blood Blast/Nuclear Blast.

 Looking ahead with tours and festival appearances on their sights, Reality Grey will continue to push ambitiously, earning their place among the pantheon of heavy music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reality+Grey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.