There are two artists using the name Rebekah:

1) Rebekah (born April 17th, 1980) is a British Techno DJ and Producer. Currently working with concepts, sounds, feelings, energy, art and anything else that inspires her on a deep level. 

http://www.djrebekah.co.uk/

Rebekah has established herself as one of the leading exponents of techno currently operating on the global circuit. Her love affair with the harder sounds stretches back to the legendary Que Club in her hometown of Birmingham where she drew influence from the likes of Dave Clarke, Derrick Carter, Richie Hawtin and Billy Nasty. 

Having made early inroads with EP’s on Naked Lunch, Smut Music, and Cult Figures, it was perhaps her remix of Matador’s “Blond Slackers” on Stolen Moments that really awakened a wider consciousness. 

Chris Liebing invited Rebekah to do a podcast for the infamous CLR Podcast series, and this signaled the start of an ongoing relationship with the monolithic label. Kicking off 2013 by mixing “Reconnected 03” for the imprint, her summer 2013 “Cycles” EP opened her tough, dark, driving productions up to an even wider audience, and was one of the highlights of what would be the break-through year for Rebekah. 

2014 saw a series of remixes for solid underground labels such as EarToGround, Sleaze, and Gynoid Audio before a follow up EP for Cult Figures reaffirmed her production nous when it came to originals. Rebekah also released her first “Elements” EP which reflected her holistic outlook on life by releasing a series of EPs that trace the input the four elements of Fire, Air, Water and Earth have on the lives of people.

Her relationship with CLR continued into 2015 with her sophomore EP “Distant” re-asserting her position on the global techno scene. This followed a sublime three track EP on Sleaze, and preceeded her September release on the mighty Soma Records. The “Confined Heart” EP, and especially the title track, showed off a more subtle and emotional side to Rebekah’s productions. A perfect complement to “Kill Floor” which does exactly as the name suggests. 

In February 2015 she continued the narrative started with her “Elements EP” and launched her own event series of the same name. Returning to her home city of Birmingham in the UK, the night will serve as a showcase for Rebekah’s sound and will host guests from her favourite peers from the techno community. The fact that it is taking place in Birmingham, a bastion for UK techno in the past, highlights her desire to reconnect with her musical roots, whilst also providing an experience for a new generation of techno lovers. 

2) Rebekah is a singer-songwriter who released one pop/rock/soul album in 1997 called "Remember to Breathe" which garnered one top 40 single entitled "Sin So Well". She appeared at a few dates for the 1997 tour of Lilith Fair, took a turn at acting under the name Rebekah Johnson, and has since returned to music, and is making music closer to jazz than to her rock/soul of her earlier career. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rebekah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.