REBEL SOULS is a death metal project originally hailing from Thuringia, Germany, that was founded in 2000 by then 17-year old Thomas Plewnia and Stefan Hielscher. Named after the second album of Polish underground veterans DAMNATION, Rebel Souls aimed to produce fast and raw death metal in the vein of VADER, VOMITORY or KRISIUN. Between 2000 and 2003 a couple of demos were home-recorded and a handful of local gigs were played, sharing the stage with underground acts such as ASMODEUS (AT), TRIMONIUM, MORTAL INTENTION (now Ad-hoC) or FRAKTUR. However, the academic and professional careers of both band members and later change of residence to Spain for one of them soon forced REBEL SOULS to put all band activities on hold.
In late 2013 Thomas and Stefan spontaneously decided to revisit and rerecord a song of the early demos and have it professionally mixed and mastered in order to evaluate its full potential with an appropriate sound. The result convinced them to revisit more songs and professionally self-produce a full-length record.
REBEL SOULS were able to bring current VADER and DIVINE CHAOS drummer James Stewart on board for the drum sessions of said record. James recorded all drums in only two days at Wave Nation Recording Studios in Ronda, Spain in November 2014.
From then onwards the remaining recording sessions were carried out on several days between January and November 2015, whenever the schedule and professional duties of both band members allowed it. The mixing and mastering process of the resulting album “The Forces of Darkness” was completed at Wave Nation Recording Studios in January 2016. The outcome is a powerful 8-track album, delivering uncompromising, relentless, straightforward death metal with hints of thrash and black metal that pays homage to the late 1990s and early 2000s, full of razor-sharp tremolo picking, bludgeoning riffs, sinister melodies, brutal growls and merciless blast beats, to be released worldwide via Art Gates Records in early 2017.
The killer artwork was designed by London-based concept artist/illustrator Vlad Marica, who is working in the gaming industry and has designed artwork for a music album for the first time in his career. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rebel+Souls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.