RBF (Rebirth by Fire) is an “experimental metal band” from Tijuana B.C. México, which seeks to fuse diverse metal genres in to one musical proposal for the pure enjoyment and love of music. Formed in April 12th 2008, original members Armando (Drums), Hugo (Guitar) and Ramón (Bass) were later joined by Joel (Vocals) at the end of that year’s summer. 
RBF’s music brings together Classic, Death, Black, Thrash, Progressive and other metal and rock elements to create its concept. The band believes that music has no labels and no boundaries and hopes to make others aware of this with their songs. The Music is driven and taken by the band as far as possible, no matter how hard or painful. Any one that shares this bands view on music is invited to tag along for the ride. “We may fall, we may break, but we will stand up…” This is the essence of RBF. Rise from the ashes!!!

BIOGRAPHY
♦DEMO EP 2009

Upon to the early departure of Ramón from the band, the rest of the members continued to write music and begin recording a Demo EP, Hugo and Armando recorded bass in this sessions. The Demo EP was Self-Recorded and Self-Produced and after one year of its formation and a very challenging experience the Demo was released on August 2009; making the official presentation on September 19th. 2009. Containing 8 tracks, the concept and lyrics of the bands first EP reflect the duality of existence, Life and Death, Pain and Joy, our consumption in the flames of life only to be reborn in a new awareness of our humanity.

♦NORTH BORDER RISING COMPILATION ALBUM 2011-2012

The album is a compilation of bands from Baja California; again self-recorded and self-produced by the band. RBF recorded two unreleased songs: Prisoners of God featuring a guitar solo performance by Ivan from the band Destroyed, and N.B.R. (North Border Rise) featuring the vocals from other bands that appear on the compilation, as well as a solo from Ivan. The album was released on January 3rd. 2012 marking the first time that Diego, the new bassist recorded with the band.

After recording the N.B.R. compilation, the band flew to Mexico City to compete on the 2011 edition of the Wacken Open Air Metal Battle México, in which the winner had a chance to represent their country at an international level on the Wacken Open Air Festival stage in Germany. The band also played on this trip at El Chopo, a Metal Swap Meet known worldwide, a stage were many international metal artists have played on or visited while in Mexico City.

 Once back at Tijuana, the band unfortunately split from vocalist Joel. 

♦NEW ALBUM – FUTURE PLANS

Currently the band is writing material for their Debut Full-Length Album, which it’s expected to see the light on Summer-Fall 2012, also the band is actively searching for a permanent vocalist to record and tour with, and are working to spread their music to new horizons such as US and Europe.


BAND MEMBERS
Current:
Hugo Reveles – Guitars (2008-present)
Armando Cabrera - Drums (2008-present)
Diego Gómez- Bass (2010-present)

Former:
Ramón Aguilar  – Bass (2008)
Joel Gómez – Vocals (2008 – 2011)
Iván Hernández – Guitar (2009-2010)
Juan C. Gutiérrez – Guitar (2010-2011)
Iván Sánchez – Guitar (2011-2012)

Discography:
Demo EP: Rebirth by Fire (August 2009)
1.XIIl
2.Betrayal
3.March of The Fallen
4.End of Humanity
5.Innerdemons
6.Angels & Devils
7.Redemption of The Forsaken Soul
8.Phoenix Rising

North Border Rising Vol.1 – Compilation Album: (January 2012)
1.Prisoners of God – Rebirth By Fire (Unreleased Track)
2.If It Don’t Kill Me today – State of Denial
3.Mundo Frio – Voces Sin Rostro
4.Dead Before it Lived – Inferno
5.Suffer The Consequences – Destroyed
6.Echoes of A Decayed Soul – Echoes of Divinity
7.Thrash Anthem – Vachteria
8.The Creation of All Evil – Echoes of Divinity
9.Final Deception – Destroyed
10.Ready to Kill – Inferno
11.Voces – Voces Sin Rostro
12.Hate Driven Chaos – State of Denial
13.North Border Rise (N.B.R.) – Rebirth By Fire (Unreleased Track)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rebirth+By+Fire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.