Reborn In Fire is a New American Metal band that came into fruition when Vocalist/Guitarist Gary Reed put an ad out on a website looking for local musicians in the Tulsa area and Drummer Nick Taylor responded. The first incarnation of the band first formed in late 2003 and released a self produced EP the following months. However, one year later a new line-up was in the works. Bassist Aaron Smith responded to a similar online ad and soon became the third mainstay member of the line-up. 
Reborn In Fire would head back into the studio at Armstrong Recording in 2006 to cut a new demo with renowned guitarist Stephen Egerton from The Descendants as the engineer. The three-song demo would later open the doors to radio stations such as Tulsas 97.5 KMOD and Z104.5 The Edge for airplay. The band also performed a couple of times live on 97.5 KMODs  Morning Show with Phil and Brent.
The band went on hiatus for a few years after Gary Reed suffered the loss of a marriage and the death of two relatives in the same year. During this time Nick, Aaron, and Gary all managed to keep in contact and talked about the possibility of getting the band back together and making a full-length album. 
In late 2010, Gary Reed and Nick Taylor went back to Armstrong Recording with Stephen Egerton as engineer to start laying down Nicks drum tracks. Throughout 2011, Gary would come in to record the guitars plus the vocals, and Aaron Smith also came in to record the bass that would become the self-produced/self-titled album Reborn In Fire.
The album brings together the fundamentals of traditional thrash metal and elements of metalcore which creates a type of new American metal that is more approachable to a wider audience than in recent years with the heavy genre. 
With the album being so close to completion, the band was still missing a key member. Gary got in touch with old friend Cale Ashlock that once played guitar in a band called One Night Scam. Cales talent on the guitar and his attitude were a perfect balance between the other members of the band. He immediately joined rounding out and strengthening the Reborn In Fire line-up. 
Reborn In Fire is a new American metal band that focuses their musical ability and artistic guile to write excellent songs that have meaning, give live performances that are memorable, and to have as many people listen to it as possible. The album Reborn In Fire that released on 11/11/11 is a testament to these ideals and will continue to forge a recognizable brand in the music industry. 

Band members (2011):
- Gary Reed ........ vocals/lead guitar
- Aaron Smith ...... bass guitar
- Nick Taylor ...... drums/vocals
- Cale Ashlock......rhythm guitar

more info:
http://www.reborninfire.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reborn+in+Fire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.