Classic hard rock band formed in Bø, Telemark, Norway in 2004. The band has released one EP, two demos and one promo single. Rebolt were featured on the cover-cd of Classic Rock Magazine in October 2008 with their 2006 song “Bad Boy (For You)”, alongside some of their own heroes: Rose Tattoo (which “Bad Boy..” is a tribute to), Airbourne, Saxon and bands like The Donnas and Krokus. 

Members:
Frode Jørum, vocals (user: rawky)
Kristian Dale, drums (on sick break)
Knut Eirik Hult, bass/background vocals
Bård Haatveit Johansen, guitars
Magnus Fosli Lillefjære, drums

Official site:
www.rebolt.no
iTunes:
https://itunes.apple.com/no/artist/rebolt/id261002116?l=nb
Spotify:
http://open.spotify.com/artist/3ANpeCyukmf78MgaB75Vlp
Become a fan:
http://www.reverbnation.com/rebolt

CLASSIC ROCK BROUGHT TO LIFE
Despite their mixed backgrounds, the members of the Norwegian band Rebolt came together for one single reason: The love for old fashioned heavy metal and hard rock!

Their songs are a humble batch of rock’n’roll which has got both soul and playfulness written all over it. In short, it is an honest attempt to make the audience dig up their air guitars and put their pedals to the metal (although rather not at the same time!). It was the guitar riffs and solos, the big choruses and the unpretentious joy of bands such as AC/DC, Rose Tattoo, Iron Maiden or a modern band like Danko Jones. which lead to the foundation of Rebolt during the winter of 2004.

Rebolt was founded on the basic idea that it was possible to be serious about music without trying to «save» rock by attempting to be knights in shining armour. The musical background of the four members would usually imply that they were poles apart, but their diverse individual credentials from jazz, rock and funk among other genres, have in fact proved to be their greatest strength. Other encouraging acts include Rose Tattoo, The Cult, AC/DC, Black Label Society, Iron Maiden, Metalllica and Danzig. Rebolt's energetic and charismatic singer Frode is in the centre of the stage, claiming the attention of the audience right from the first note to the final riff. This is a rock singer who can smile and look people in the eye all at once, and still sing as if his lungs were bleeding. This get-up-and-go attitude both on record and on stage has lead to support jobs for internationally recognized Norwegian bands such as Ralph Myerz & The Jack Herren Band, El Caco and Span, as well as swedish metallers Mustasch.

During the years since Rebolt’s formation, the quartet has managed to earn a small but devoted international fan base as well as a name for themselves on the local live circuit in Norway. The reasons for their achievements are as simple as the ideas that were evident when they first met: To play extremely tight rock’n’roll and engage their audience while bringing their joy of music to a full view. From August 2007 to October 2008 the band were on hiatus, awaiting the recovery of drummer Kristian who was suffered serious problems with his hearing. In October 2008 the band recruited a new drummer, Magnus and are now on a new roll.

Rebolt were featured on the cover-cd of Classic Rock Magazine in October 2008 with their song “Bad Boy (For You)”, alongside some of their own heroes: Rose Tattoo (which “Bad Boy..” is a tribute to), Airbourne, Saxon and bands like The Donnas and Krokus. In February 2009 the band played at club:Larm in Oslo and impressed both new and old fans with their obvious love of playing music in front of an audience.

Bring your air guitar out of the closet and enjoy, dude! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rebolt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.