There are mutliple artists with this name:

1) Thanos Labropoulos, also known as Reckless, began his career at the age of 15 in the Athens nightclub, Venue. A weekend regular, he walked up to the deejay booth late one night and asked if he could step in. Having made a lasting impression after only a few minutes behind the tables, he was offered the resident deejay position.

Born on February 12, 1988 in Brooklyn, Reckless’ unique style showcases the bicultural influences in his music as a result of his upbringing in both the US and Greece, while his mastery of the piano, bass and drums coupled with his striking singing and composition abilities are evident through his early success.

After landing the resident deejay spot at Venue, word traveled quickly about the talented young newcomer, and the demand for Reckless rapidly increased. He began headlining major events at the most highly regarded clubs across Greece and Cyprus, playing for packed houses filled with his ever-increasing fan base, and he has already been seen playing with some of the most prominent names in the industry including Tiesto and Flo-Rida. 

In November 2008, Reckless teamed up with Playmen to create the #1 hit “Together Forever,” launching his career as an artist and composer. The song was immediately signed with a major label in Greece, and became the “summer anthem” of 2009. 

After the success of his debut song, Reckless released his first solo single a little over a year later, subsequently signing a contract with Sony Music Entertainment. “The End” reached the #1 spot in music charts across Greece, sustaining its position for many weeks. It was released in 17 other countries, including the UK, where it was charted in Music Week’s “Pop Chart Top 30” in August 2010.

In February 2011, Reckless releases his second solo single "Number One" which proves to be a successful follow up to his previous single. The track reaches the top positions of all charts around Greece and is released on a countless number of compilations. The year 2011 for Reckless is a stepping stone with 4 nominations in Greece's MAD Video Music Awards and a massive 140 shows count for his Winter and Summer tours in Greece, USA, London and Cyprus.

An extremely creative and multitalented artist, Reckless uses a distinct blend of the hottest dance tunes in conjunction with live performance and vocals to connect with his fans in an incomparable way that ensures a vivacious atmosphere at every one of his performances.

Official Fan Page: Facebook

2) Reckless is a solo-artist. Ricky aka Reckless is from Chicago, but he now resides in Brownsville, TX. He loves music, its a really big part of his life.

3) Reckless is a southern rock band out of Nashville, TN.

Official Website:http://www.recklessband.com/.

4) Reckless is a hard rock band from Ontario, Canada.  They released the full length albums "Reckless" in 1980 and "Heart of Steel" in 1985.

5) Reckless was a rock band active from 1987 - 1991 In Australia.

6) Reckless is a recent rock band from Porto, Portugal, which sounds a lot like Muse (and is often confused by them). Since July 2010, they are making new songs such as: "change my heart", "my dear sherlock" and "bach archive".

7)Reckless is an Italian rock band consisting of lead vocalist / keyboardist A.T. Rooster, guitarists Dany Rockett and Alex Jawbone, bassist Jack Chevy and drummer Mikki Mixx.  They released 'T.M.T.T.80  (Take Me To The 80's)'  via Sneakout Records in 2022. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reckless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.