There are more than one band called Rectify:

1. Rectify was a norwegian straight edge hardcore band that released two seveninches on Crucial Response Records. Members later played in bands such as: Sportswear, Tiebreak, Onward, Contention, Hands Tied, Damage Control, Amulet and The Team Spirit.

2. Rectify was a mid 80's to 2000 Hardcore Punk band from Blaina, Gwent feat; Pig (voc) (now This System Kills) & Wedge (drums) (later of “Four Letter Word") & Mudgey (formerly of Classified Protest & Political Reform) Split up in 2000, released several split offerings over the years for “Words Of Warning”, “Profane Existance", “Blown To Bits”, “Blackfish”, “Suspect Device”, “Inflammable Material ”, “ Squat Or Rot”, “Pop Noise”. Played regular local support slots including Mad Ball, Agnostic Front, Pitchshifter and “U.K. Subs", as well as being stalwarts nationally on the underground D.I.Y. Punk circuits and Punks Picnic's. Did 5 European tours, having played in Italy, Spain, Germany, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Belgium, France, Holland and Switzerland with Chaos U.K., Kontempt & Kuru among others. Released several split 7"s with the likes of “External Menace", as well as self released stuff on Taffcore (available only from the band through gigs or zines) like the blistering cassette only release 'Ebulliton' of the early 90's to the later 'Fall On Evil Days'.

3. Rectify is a Dutch aggressive metal(core) band that mixes the thrash from Slayer, the sickness from Kickback, and aggression from bands like Arkangel and old Length of Time.
With their music Rectify tries to contribute to the development of heavy music. Heavy music has been segmented in many different styles throughout its development. Rectify tries to create a "new" style, which contains elements from existing ones, while trying to expand these with an own and new approach. There is more development to come and they try to be part of this development. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rectify">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.