“A perfect blend of the macabre and beauty. A true gem for any serious music fan” – says one radio host of the music by Red Queen Theory. Founded in 2008 by bassist Dean Forsyth and lead vocalist Liz Tseng, the song themes range from the epic to the mundane, but whether it’s singing about crusaders drinking in a bar, a space odyssey involving demons and cats, or just plain good old l’amour, the constant elements are always there: catchy melodies – often built on middle eastern sounds – expressed through evocative vocals, intense drums, and restlessly worming guitar riffs. The result is a sound that is instantly captivating.

Even before their first stage appearance, the homemade demo songs have been played on various online radio stations, received an invitation to play at the most haunted castle in Ireland, and earned a one-hour podcast entirely attributed to the band, in which the show host describes the band as a “goth new wave”. It was also pointed out that the distinctiveness of the band was due to not only successful songwriting, but also solid musicianship. Lead vocalist Liz Tseng carries a unique voice that blends the elegance of classical opera with the ferocity of modern rock. Classically-trained pianist Jenny Chung adds backing vocals and keyboard harmonies to enrich the soundscape. Guitarist Abel Ames, bassist David Ames, and drummer Simon Hilsman are Seattle music scene veterans who know how to grow a blooming sound garden when given a tiny seed.

The band plays live shows regularly in the Seattle/Tacoma area at venues such as Club Motor, Hell’s Kitchen, and Fuel. The band’s first song (“Rainy Day Eve”) was featured on Project X, an Australian compilation album created to raise money and awareness for victims of personality disorders. RQT’s self-titled EP, Red Queen Theory, was recently released for both physical and digital distribution. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Red+Queen+Theory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.