Formed Summer 1996 by Rachel Holborow (Bass and vocals), Marc Walker (drums) and Pete Dale (Guitar and vocals). First gig January 17th 1997 supporting VSS at Newcastle's now-defunct Broken Doll. First single ("Do what you feel (feel what you do)", Slampt records) recorded in February of the same year, shortly followed by a UK tour in Spring and a 3 week European tour in the summer. The bands second single was issued in Autumn '97 by Troubleman Unlimited, who have subsequently issued each of the Red Monkey albums for the US 'market'. The first album, "Make the Moment", was also recorded in '97 (busy year for a band with no manager, no publishing deal and very little money in the bank!) but was not released in the US until Spring 1998 to co-incide with the bands first (6 week, coast-to-coast) US tour. Also in early 1998 the band toured Ireland, the UK again and recorded its first (and only) Peel session. A third single was released by Kill Rock Stars in mid-98 adding to Red Monkey's renoun in the USA (very few people in the UK have ever taken much interest in the band, but they remain well respected and underground-popular in the US). A month-long European tour kept the band busy in Autumn '98. The second album, "Difficult is Easy", was recorded in December '98 but not released until Spring '99, by which time the band had completed its third UK tour and was about to embark on its second US tour - 8 weeks of constant gigging, covering both coasts and lots of other parts of the US and Canada. The fourth single, "Get Uncivilised" on Troubleman, was also recorded in '99 but not issued until 2000. The third album, "Gunpowder, Treason and Plot" came out in 2001 and was promoted with a third US tour, this time only covering the East Coast in a two week burst. After that the band became busy starting families, only playing locally in Newcastle except for one show in London with our friends Q AND NOT U in 2004, one in London with WET DOG in 2005 and one in Brighton also in 2005. The only recorded output after 2001 was a split single with Erase Errata (2003). Disbanded in 2005. Joe Mask of Leeds' awesome BILGE PUMP played extra guitar with the band from 2001 to 2004. Red Monkey played shows with FUGAZI, THE EX, ERASE ERRATA, Q AND NOT U, AT THE DRIVE IN, LUNGFISH, SWEEP THE LEG JOHNNY, SUBMISSION HOLD, BLONDE REDHEAD and many, many others. In 2006 Rachel is playing in DO THE RIGHT THING, Marc is playing in THE GUISE and Pete is playing in CHRONICITY. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Red+Monkey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.