RED TO GREY was founded in April 1998, their style can be described as Thrash-Metal containing elements of Power- and Melodic-Metal. Roughly, it ranges somewhere between Iced Earth and Exodus or Forbidden.

From 1998 up to 2002 the band consisted of:
Andy Pankraz, (vocals), Tino Bergamo (guitars), Frank Pané (guitars), Robin Fischer (bass) and Elmar Nuesslein (drums)

In October 1998 the first Demo-CD "Circle Of Pain" was recorded at Tritonus-Studio in Ludwigsburg. The CD, which has gathered very positive reviews, is nearly sold out but can still be ordered for 10,-- Euro at one of the indicated contacts.

In July 2001 the first official RED TO GREY album "Wrath Of The Weak" was released by the German label Black Arrow . The album was produced and recorded at TTS Media Music in Osterholz-Scharmbeck near Bremen and the reviews were as positive as for the first release "Circle Of Pain".

In Rock Hard magazine for example "Wrath Of The Weak" scored 8.5 out of 10 points. In Heavy Oder Was!? the album reached 10 out of 12 points.

In April 2002 the band went on tour for the first time. Together with Couragous and Perzonal War they performed in 7 different Cities in southern and middle Germany.

After guitarist and founding member Frank Pané had left the band in the middle of 2002, the band played a couple of gigs with Klaus Griessmeyer of the Munich progressive-metal-formation Pergamon on second guitar. In January 2003 the new regular RED TO GREY-Guitarist joined the band. His name is Jan Hoffmann. 

In February 2003 bassplayer Robin Fischer left the band as well and was replaced by Stefan Hendel, an old friend of the band and bassplayer in the medieval-oriented metalband Die Rattenfaenger.

Line up 2003:
Andy Pankraz (vocals), Tino Bergamo (guitars), Jan Hoffmann (guitars), Stefan Hendel (bass) and Elmar Nuesslein (drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Red+to+Grey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.