Red House Are Jeff Espinoza & Francisco Simon

Jeff Espinoza

JEFF ESPINOZA is from Los Angeles, California where he graduated with degrees in Psychology and Ethnic Studies at California State University, Fullerton. He combined his love of music along with his studies and work with autistic children while playing in a number of bands in California. Seeking to perfect his musical knowledge, Jeff studied Composition, Voice, Piano & Music Theory, and Recording Techniques at Orange Coast College and California State University, Fullerton and also attending numerous Recording and Song writing Seminars in Los Angeles.

Jeff studied Bel Canto with Inés de Rivadeneira for ten years to further develop his vocal technique. Jeff arrived in Spain in 1980 with the Californian group “No Justice” and progressively became part of the Spanish musical panorama playing with the legendary “Flying Gallardos” with whom he recorded his first album in Spain.

Later on Jeff became the lead vocalist and lyricist with the Vargas Blues Band, recording three albums (“Madrid to Memphis”, “Blues Latino”, and “Texas Tango”), before forming RED HOUSE with Francisco Simón. Since 1998 they have recorded five Cds (“Red House”, “Hold On”, “Captured Live”, “Rattlesnake Road”, and their latest effort “Chihuahua Boogie”) all received to critical acclaim by the music press of Spain. Jeff has composed and written lyrics to more than 500 songs in diverse styles, and has collaborated with numerous artists such as “Blue Lou” Marini (Blues Brothers), Chris Rea, Junior Wells, Flaco Jimenez, El Gran Wyoming, Lonnie Brooks, Larry Graham, Larry McCray, Preston Shannon, Larry T. Thurston, El Chojin, Double Trouble (Stevie Ray Vaughn), and Gene Taylor (Canned Heat, The Blasters, and The Fabulous Thunderbirds), etc.

JEFF ESPINOZA has recorded hundreds of publicity ads and records, and has also recorded as a voice and dubbing artist with countless films, ads, and documentaries to his credit. He has also recorded for Television, Radio, Cartoons, Documentaries, and Movies such as “Catherine's Grove”, “Malena es un Nombre de Tango”, “Cthulhu Mansion”, “El Rey”, and “Marco Antonio”.


Francisco Simon

FRANCISCO SIMÓN studied Geography and History at the Complutense University, but his passion for the guitar lead him to study Musical Pitch, Harmony, and Music Theory at the School of Creative Music of Madrid on a AIE scholarship. He later studied Composition, and Music Arrangement at the same school. Later he moved to Hollywood, California, where he studied at the prestigious Guitar Institute of Technology where he received the Best Style Award.

Returning to Spain, Simón toured with famous Spanish groups such as Cabaret Pop, Duncan Dhu, and Miguel Rios with whom he recorded several albums including live concerts. Francisco has worked with diverse international artists such as Jerry Lee Lewis, Willie de Ville, Paul Collins, Kevin Ayers, Kenny Neal, Colin James, Bernard Allison, Gene Taylor, Paul Carrack, “Blue Lou” Marini, and Tom Jones.

Well known and respected in the Spanish musical panorama, Simon has also collaborated with great artists such as Antonio Flores, Rosendo, Julián Hernández (Siniestro Total), Raimundo Amador, José Mercé (the last two respected names of Flamenco Music) and many more...

Simón has also been a fixture of television programs such as “La noche se mueve” (Telemadrid-El Gran Wyoming), “El peor programa de la semana” (La 2, directed by Fernando Trueba, Oscar for the best foreign film “Belle Epoque”), “Caiga Quien Caiga” (T5, best show-magazine on Spanish Television), “Furor” (Tele Madrid, FORTA), “La Azotea de Wyoming” (TVE), “Nada X Aquí” (Cuatro), and “No te olvides de la canción” (La Sexta).

Along with Jeff Espinoza he is the composer and co-founder of RED HOUSE, which have edited five Cds since 1998. Francisco also composes soundtracks for movies such as “Cthulhu Mansion” and “El Rey” and music for numerous documentaries along with publicity and corporate productions. He has also composed music for the cartoon series “Marco Antonio”. Lately Simón is a much sought after producer and arranger because of his fine sense of musical structure and knowledge and professionalism with a years of experience behind him which has lead him to participate in the recording of over 40 Cds of different styles.

Official Website: Red House <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Red+House">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.