Red Sparowes is a post-rock band formed in Los Angeles, California, United States, and comprising current and former members of Isis, Neurosis, Halifax Pier, Angel Hair, Pleasure Forever and Marriages. Their sound is characteristic of soundscape-influenced experimental rock, with an otherwise uncommon extensive use of a pedal steel guitar.

Red Sparowes formed in 2003 as another project for its members: Bryant Clifford Meyer, Greg Burns, Josh Graham, Jeff Caxide, and Dana Berkowitz. Andy Arahood and David Clifford joined the band after the release of Red Sparowes' debut album, At the Soundless Dawn, as replacements for departed Caxide and Berkowitz respectively.

Through signing to Neurot Recordings, Neurosis' record label, Red Sparowes toured with The Dillinger Escape Plan and Made Out of Babies in 2004 after recording demos for their debut album. The debut was recorded in late May of 2004 by engineer Desmond Shea, with the resulting sound in the vein of guitarist Bryant Clifford Meyer and Jeff Caxide's band Isis, Chicago post-rock/metal outfit Pelican, and New Zealand post-rock band Jakob. Members Jeff Caxide and Dana Berkowitz relocated in late 2004, thus forcing them out of the band.

Red Sparowes' first studio album, At the Soundless Dawn, was released in February of 2005, following guitarist Bryant Clifford Meyer's other band, Isis, in their initial tours in support of Panopticon. Shortly after this release, a split 12" was released with Gregor Samsa. The Red Sparowes side contained the second track from At the Soundless Dawn, "Buildings Began to Stretch Wide Across the Sky, And the Air Filled With A Reddish Glow," as well as a song recorded during the album's recording sessions with guitar from Mike Gallagher of Isis, initially only available on the Japanese release of the album.

The band did a successful headlining tour of Europe in spring of 2005, and participated in an American tour in August and September of 2005 with Pelican, Big Business and Breather Resist. In February of 2006 the band finished recording their follow-up, Every Red Heart Shines Toward the Red Sun.

The band's latest full-length album entitled "The Fear is Excruciating, But Therein Lies the Answer." was released in April 2010. 

Red Sparowes had more or less been on an indefinite hiatus since late 2011, but in late September 2019, the band was announced to be playing at the 2020 edition of the Roadburn festival. Although the show was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the band also confirmed in a Facebook post that work was underway on a new album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Red+Sparowes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.