There is more than one artist using this name:

1.)Red Mist are an Exeter based band who first began when Justin and old bassist Stu began jamming together. After advertising for a drummer they managed to find Marc who was a solid player that fit. After finding a practice space they set about finding a suitable singer who would work with the heavy music being written. After trying a couple people out which didn't really work they stumbled upon Gibbzy a vocalist with his own style who just fit right in. The band set about writing some songs but hit a snag when Stu quit the band. The remaining members carried on writing while looking for a suitable replacement. The band found Ben after he answered one of our ads, and was in after one practice, his ability and enthusiasm was perfect. Red Mist has now been jamming and writing for the last couple months and are now looking at gigging. Red Mist entered the cavern singles club in December reaching the final but didn't quite win despite getting a great response. The band carried on writing and played the cavern continuing to improve their sound, recording their first demo at Coombeshead Studios, April 2006.  Red Mist are on a hiatus as of 2011. Drummer Marc has left the band.

2.)  Red Mist is a black metal band from the United Kingdom, focussing on themes of death and overall morbidity. It is a one-man black metal band created by 'X', all music & artwork made by the founder. 

3.) Red Mist are an indie rock band from Belfast, Northern Ireland. Currently consisting of Gary, Lemon and Dave, Red Mist were formed in the summer of 2006. The three piece came together for a charity gig, a musical connection sparked and since then they have been writing and playing several low-key gigs, with numerous gig offers from esteemed local venues. With the approach of the summer and the end of the exam season the boys will be looking to record and gig in order to build on their recent local success. With a summer of music ahead the future looks bright for the Belfast boys <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Red+Mist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.