There are several artists with the name Red:
1. An American Christian rock band.
2. A Japanese grindcore band. (Red (Jpn)).
3. A Canadian trip-hop musician.
4. A British turntablist.
5. A French jazz group.
6. A Russian psytrance producer.
7. An American post-punk band.
8. A Dutch pop group (RED!).
9. A British heavy metal band.
10. An Italian singer.

1. An American rock band from Nashville, Tennessee, formed in 2004. 
The band's lineup consists of singer Michael Barnes, guitarist Anthony Armstrong, and bassist Randy Armstrong. They are known for their Christian rock music which incorporates other sounds such as alternative rock, alternative metal, hard rock, and post-grunge. Jasen Rauch and Andrew Hendrix were the rhythm guitarist and drummer, respectively, at the time of the band's formation. Hendrix was replaced by Hayden Lamb in 2006, who was then replaced by Joe Rickard, who left in 2014. Though Rauch left the band in 2009, he still contributes to songwriting.
To date, Red has released seven studio albums: End of Silence (2006), Innocence & Instinct (2009), Until We Have Faces (2011), Release the Panic (2013), Of Beauty and Rage (2015), Gone (2017), and Declaration (2020).
The first two albums earned the group Grammy Award Nominations for Best Rock Gospel Album while Until We Have Faces had a No. 2 debut on Billboard 200.

Official Website

2. A Boston-based post-punk band containing composer Ottmar Liebert and his brother Stefan. The band utilized synthesizers and synthetic drums in addition to the typical rock instruments. They released the 7-inch records Walking in the Park (1981) and KCDY (1982)
Ottmar has since found commercial success with his ensemble Luna Negra.

3. A solo trip-pop artist from Vancouver, Canada. She is a self-represented singer, songwriter and creates an entirely independant multi-media empire of gifted people who collaborate and pool their many talents and resources — she calls this "soon-to-rise-monolith Heartbreaker Music."

4. Red (also known as DJ Red started as his music career as a drummer, but later turned to creating his own music. He is now an accomplished producer and turntablist.
He has released a debut album Fingerprints on Dealmaker and plays in the band Full Fat.

5. A band from Lille, North of France. They are Red, Jeex, Leo88man and Tonio Marinescu. Their label is Rectangle & Universal Jazz. 
See french site for more informations.

6. Russian psytrance producer.
Wikipedia

7. A grindcore band from Japan.

8. RED! is a Dutch pop band, which consist of Steffie, Déon and Brandi.  They won the popstars finale and made their first single; Step Into The Light, Guilty & Conga.

9. A New Wave Of British Heavy Metal band which has released a 7" Rider In The Sky in 1977. Line-up: Mark Robbins (vocals, keyboard, flute, saxophone), Paul Newton (lead guitar), Stephen Flood (rhythm guitar), Richard Edgington (bass guitar), Pete Briggs-Fish (drums).

10. Red Sprecacenere (born 20 August 1977 in Chieti) is an Italian pop singer.
Official Website <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Red">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.