There are two artists with this name on Last.fm

1. An electronic DJ/Producer
2. A rapper from Maryland, USA

1.) For this DJ and Producer, an early started interest for electronic music became a real passion. Kraftwerk, Gary Numan and the new-beat scene were the first big influences on his future career in music. Between '92 and '97 he was a resident in a local club called amnesia. During this period he learned how to produce music and bought the necessary equipement. Round the same time, he met Marco Bailey, became his co-producer and a productive and creative team was born. This extraordinary duo released their first record in '98, on the forcefield label. Later on followed more products of hard labour and they released on Primate, Session, Kobayashi and many more, in total over 40 records. They are also known under the project name Soulwatcher, with several groundbreaking releases on Primevil and Invasion, for example. In May 2000, RedHead decided to release a solo record. he met the swedish dj and label boss Johan Bacto. And made his solo-debut on Skunkworks. Later on he released the humanized and Icelandic e.p. on the famous zync label, and on the mysterious Mankind label. Later on he released on session recordings (Lost soul e.p) and on compressed (vulcano e.p.). In june 2002 his full album release "Dragon and Sword" came out. The Cd more ambient orientated and the vinyl 8 straight techno tracks. His talent was also noticed by Monika Kruse which resulted in a release on her label, Terminal M.

Now he has also released on Mb electronics, North west dynamics, Fine Audio, primate endangered species etc.

Besides this he also did some remixes for Fine audio rec., Highland beats, Zync.
But this easy going guy is not only famous as a producer, as a dj he already played in loads of countries: Brazil, Sweden, Malta, Switzerland, France, Holland, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece, Germany, Turkey to name a few. In Belgium, he's resident at the popular techno nation parties at silo leuven. He also played already at big festivals like I Love Techno 2002, Nature One, Sola Luna Festival. 

2.) Rapper 'Redhead' released his mixtape 'The Schemata' in 2011, and 'The Honesty Box' in 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Redhead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.