REDRUM INC. is a German band active in the European underground since 1999. 

Current Line-Up

Ralf Lewandrowski - Drums
Roland "Roln Stone" Watteler – Guitar
Michael "Mighty" Dohmen - Vocals
Thomas Ratz – Guitar
Frank "Oette" Gonsior - Bass 

Band History

With their own production "Cure The Pain" the band obtained first acceptance in 2002. Numerous good reviews from around the globe supplied the beefy five-some with a sound basis that was progressively consolidated in a lot of shows.

Talking about REDRUM INC. associations with artists  Crowbar, Pro Pain, Exodus, Madball, Down or Machine Head come up naturally, and without any doubt these bands can be considered as the band members' main influence.

REDRUM INC. melt their influences to a very unique and catchy mixture: Heavy Core. No matter, if Heavy-Thrash or Death Metal, Doom, Nola Sludge, Hardcore, or other pigeon holes - all of those styles intransigently screw their way into the listener's ears and thus grow to a massive sound avalanche.

"We don´t care - It has to have balls, dude!"

In August 2004 the EP "Selfish Blood" was released as an own production, which provided more than good reviews in a dauntetly inundated Metal - Hardcore sector. The tracks recorded in Sonic Sound Studio (Viersen, Germany) together with Achim Kaiser put a lot of other bands in their place and impressively exhibit the potential of the band.

Besides many single shows together with Koroded, Born From Pain, Cataract, As We Fight, Undertow, Ektomorf or Motorjesus REDRUM INC. 2004 toured a couple of days as support for the tour packages Pro Pain / Carnal Forge / Postmortem (Sept. 2004) and Crowbar / Hatesphere (July 2004). At the very personal request of the Crowbar Mastermind Kirk Windstein Redrum Inc. was chosen as Support for the last Crowbar Headliner Tour (England, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Hungary, Austria) in March 2005, and another one is about to follow soon.

The year 2006 was - besides a lot of further gigs - intensively used for writing new songs and consolidating the new line-up with a new guitarist Roland "Roln Stone" Watteler coming as a replacement for former guitarist Markus Strek. Among numerous songs a set of 12 was picked and recorded in "homework". 5 Songs are mixed down by Achim Kaiser in the Sonic Sound Studios and unleashed in form  of an own demo in August. Among some stalwart musical surprises the listener will find a feature by Che (Born From Pain).

In 2007, Redrum INC. stands for more than concentrated heavyness and killer melodies. TBC...
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Redrum+Inc.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.