There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Redrum - (often stylized as REDRUM) is a Japanese indie/shoegaze rock band who formed in 1996 with the decisive goal of becoming a band similar to Portishead for Japan. The members of the band consist of Yumi (vocals), Tsuyoshi (guitar) and Kazi (drums). The role of bassist officially changed two times and was helmed primarily by Soto who joined the band early on and stayed until his departure in December 2004. Their catalogue of works consists of only a few proper albums, several mini albums and maxi singles. Some of their releases were available exclusively through mail order or at their shows and have since become out of print.
In April 2006 the band announced that they would be going on an indefinite hiatus after they finished their 10th anniversary tour which ended in June. Kazi stressed that this was not a break-up and that all band members vowed to return in the future. In March 2007 the band followed through with their word and announced their comeback live which is to take place on April 22, 2007. With this announcement came the news that long-standing bassist Soto would rejoin the band after having left in late 2004. They released a "best of" album on November 19, 2008 entitled Cinematic Sound Foundation and followed up with an announcement of the band's disbandment. Yumi decided to retire from music and after a discussion with the band it was decided that Redrum could no longer exist without her or with a replacement singer. Kazi has stated that he, Tsuyoshi and Soto would eventually perform together in some capacity. The band embarked on their last tour entitled "Tomorrow Never Comes" and their final live took place on April 25, 2009 at Shinjuku Loft.

2) Redrum was the name of a short-lived Bulgarian metal band 2003-2006.

3) Russian Death/Black metal band Redrum is a capital project of IMPALER and UNDEAD members’, formed in the end of 2004 by guitarist Avenger and vocalist Dethonator. From the very beginning line-up consisted of 3 members: Dethonator (Vocals), Avenger (Guitar), Demiurgh (Bass). In 2005 releases first demo album “War, Blood & Honour” . Musicians define their style as War Metal

In the beginning of 2006 they released promo album “Satisfucktion”, which included songs from forthcoming album, and also re-recorded songs from “War, Blood & Honour”. Especially for fans and metalheads album contains covers on such bands as: Satyricon, Sepultura, and also Metallica, processed in firm style of REDRUM. Later the band received offers from Ukrainian Bloodhead Productions (now Empire Records), Greek Metalfighters and Bulgarian Distributor Of Pain.

In the end of 2006 they finished recording “Mephisto Opressor” and shows true awfully-beautiful face of REDRUM. And if the first album, as band members say, was “try of strengths”, search for the style and combined elements of many metal genres, – new album is completely sustained in one spirit and conceptual.. Powerful guitar pressure, middle East, anctient-egyptian melodies, death mystical-occult lyrics, various vocal parts – it is all are components, that brings the band to a new level. 

During period from 2006 to 2007 band playing few shows in Ioshkar-Ola and closest cities. In the beginning of 2007 drummer Sargeras joins the band. In the end of 2007 Greek label Circle Of Blood (division of Metalfighters) releases first album “War, Blood & Honour”. Band re-records material from the beginning of it’s creativity, completed in a new spirit. Many parts was re-considered and changed. Album was re-recorded from the very beginning, leaving the firm style of REDRUM untouched.

In 2007 working on finishing the release of new opus “World DeTermination”. Increased speed , technical aspect of music, anti-human lyrics and all-destructing vocals.


3) Redrum is an independent rapper from San Francisco.

4) Redrum is a hungarian punk-rock band, formed in 2006 in Veszprém.

They released one demo (Én itt vagyok, means "I am here") in 2007, they're working on their second nowdays.
Mészi - Bass, Vocals; Szilvás - Guitar; Polgi - Guitar, Backvocals; Szilve - Drums

5) Redrum was a thrash metal band active from 1983 to 1992.

They released 2 demos (Power Corrupts & Disarm and Survive) and appeared on Metal Massacare 9 - Metal Blade Records. Song "Death in Disneyland" borrowed from earlier version of the band in Sacramento that used the same name... POWER CORRUPTS disc released independently in 1989 and re-release in 2007 by Evil Legend records with bonus live tracks from 1985 and 1987.

Mike Parisi - drums, Carlos Yniguez - vocals, Mike Caboy - bass, Don Adams - guitar, Vonni Groccia - guitar


6) Redrum was an Oxford based rock band popular in the early eighties.

7) French death/thrash band from La Roche sur Yon formed in 2001.

8) thrash/hardcore band of the late 90s from nevada.

9) A RAC band from Germany.

10) An Alice in Chains all-star tribute band from Romania.
Alex Purje/RAIN DISTRICT
Cezar Popescu/VITA DE VIE
Andrei Filip/EL NEGRO
Razvan Ristea/LUNA AMARA

11) A french hardcore/horrorcore rap group, signed on Visceral Records

12) A Japanese visual kei band with five members. Formed in 2012, they belong to GOD CHILD RECORDS and their producer is HIZUMI from ex. D'espairsRay.

(If you're listening to the Japanese group, please change your tags to REDЯUM.) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Redrum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.