Tariek (Shamel Rondo Horton) Williams known to most by his rap moniker Reek Da Villian or his street name “Playboy Reek” was born and raised in (Strong Island) Roosevelt, New York. He was the third born of four siblings. He, his mother and his Siblings all shared a two bedroom basement apartment on West Fulton Ave in Roosevelt. As a kid he found his pleasure in music, dancing and sports. Reek Recollects ”I starting rapping at 7 years old after watching and listening to my older cousins. ”My father died while he Was incarcerated when I was only 9 years old. So growing up I idolized my Older brother and cousins. That’s where I first encountered with rapping.

Reek Da Villian first started recording music at 15 years old in his cousins studio in Freeport, New York. His first song ever was called “Bodies On The Tounge” where he talks about verbally murdering MC’s. After proving his skills to his Older cousin’s Ike T & Belly Val (Of I.G.T.) who had a record deal under Steve Rifkind’s Loud Records In 1999, They chose to make Reek a understudy of the group. “I Remember being in I.G.T.’s first studio session at the legendary Chung King Studio In Manhatten, New York. I freestyled for A&R’s Scott Free, Matty C , and Shawn C currently Of Grind Music Productions. After rapping for them for hours, they all fell in love with my flow and spoke of signing me. Due to bad management nothing ever went through. Reek continued to record for the next 3 Years until he was incarcerated in 2003 for possession of a loaded firearm, where he spent the next year in Nassau County Corr Fac.

After serving his year he was released in 2004 where he got back on the grind in the studio. He recorded for the next 2 years until he ran into his big break in 2006, where he met Busta Rhymes at a mixtape/clothing store called Central Station in Uniondale, New York. ”I had just came back from Jamaica Ave and I stopped at Central Station to get a T-shirt. I seen Belly Val of I.G.T. talking to Busta and he called me over to rap for him. After rhyming for 5 Minutes straight, Busta stop me from rhyming and asked for my number. Two days later he called me and told me that I was Flipmode if anybody asked me, and it been on ever since. Reek continued to drop a series of mixtapes (Pharmacy Pt.1, Pt.2,Pt.3, For Da Goons And Gangstas, The Remixes Pt.1,Pt.2), but his first big look was on Busta Rhymes' “Don’t Touch Me Remix”. Soon after he appeared on BET’s Rapcity with The Game and Busta Rhymes. Then a week later would make an appearance on 106 & Park to perform with Flipmode Squad. ”Coming out to perform in front of all those fans, and to have the ladies react the way they did was overwhelming. Furthermore, it put a stamp on my stardom and showed just how far I’ve come.” Now my dreams are reality so look forward to hearing a whole lot Of Reek Da Villian in the near future. After leaving Busta & crew in 2008, he once again joined them under the new team "The Conglomerate" in 2010. This time with even more exposure than last time, releasing a music video for his song "Mechanics" featuring Busta Rhymes & Swizz Beatz, plus TV and radio appearances. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reek+Da+Villian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.