There is more than one artist with this name:

1) A gangsta rap group created by rapper Yukmouth of The Luniz in 1997 and originally included fellow rappers Tech N9ne, Phats Bossi, Madmax, Poppa LQ, and Govnormatic. Not long after the original formation, rappers Gonzoe of rap group Kausion and Lil' Ke also joined. The group was named as a result of old Hitler movies viewed by Yukmouth in which Hitler's army was referred to as "The Regime" or "The Hitler Regime". The logo for the group is a silhouette of a dragon inspired by Yukmouth's love of dragons and old Bruce Lee movies. The dragon logo also doubles as the logo for Yukmouth's label Smoke-A-Lot Records, which incidentally, The Regime are currently signed to as a group. The Regime is unique when it comes to rap groups in that the members are from different states and cities around the U.S. yet come together to make music and money. Besides guest appearances on numerous Yukmouth related projects, the group has released three acclaimed mixtapes entitled "All Out War Volume. 1", "All Out War Volume. 2" and "All Out War Volume. 3" and will release their debut album "Regime Life" in the fall of 2007 on Smoke-A-Lot/Rap-A-Lot Records.

2) A Hardcore Punk band from Hamilton, New Zealand. The Lineup consists of Ryan Jordan from One Must Fall and 21 Guns, Izzy from Antagonist A.D., Michael Shields from Cry Wolf, Nick Cullen from Roll With The Punches and Bones from Daredevil. They released a 4-song demo at Hamtown Smakdown 2012. Their official website is: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Regime/288532661171443

3) A rock band from Pembrokeshire Wales. Band members are Toby Grimshaw (vocs), Jez Grimshaw (vocs/lead guitar), Theo grimshaw (drums), and Charlie Hague (bass). The band has been doing copious amounts of gigging for over a year and have a large following in that area of the UK. They have just completed their first full length album titled 'Up In Arms' and will be touring and creating new material throughout the coming year (2008). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Regime">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.