Reign of Terror has swiftly pushed their way into the spotlight with their latest release Threnody of the Impaled. Discovered by  Evil Vengeance Records, and praised by metal magazines, this Texas Death metal band promises to be one of the most recognized and most revered bands headlining the international scene. 

In 1997 El Paso, Texas, saw three “mighty horned gods encroaching” when Marc “The Engine” Arredondo (drums), David Subia (vocals), and CJ Holguin (bass) left their former bands, Mortis and Severe Beating and formed Reign of Terror, the Texas Death metal band known their for “glorification of death, Satanism, hate, violence, and blasphemy.” Shortly after Reign of Terror came together, guitarist Thorben Rathje (from Obscuratio) was invited to join the band, and their first album Traversing the Realms of Acheron was in the making, with which Reign of Terror laid their groundwork for the dark, occult, and brutal death metal they are known for.

That same year, however, the band faced their first obstacle: David Subia had failed to show up for some gigs and was consequently asked to leave the band. Now without a vocalist, CJ took over and filled the vacant spot. Self-taught, CJ excels in that he artfully employs high and low vocals to create a rich and full sound.

The trio continued, now stronger than ever, and in the summer of 1998, Reign of Terror released their 10-song CD Traversing the Realms of Acheron. Still celebrating the success of their first album, ROT's spirits were once again dampened when Thorben, due to immigration laws, had to return to his native country, Germany. It was then when long-time friend of the band, Richard Osmond, became ROT’s guitarist. Reign of Terror’s desire to play faster, heavier, and more brutal gave room for a second guitarist, and in 1999 Gilbert Sanchez joined the gang.

ROT wasted no time and self-released Inverted Beliefs of the Sanguine God in March 2000, but for the second time their jubilation was short lived: by the end of that year both guitarists left, leaving Marc and CJ now by themselves.

No less discouraged, Marc and CJ were now looking for a new guitarist when Alex Otero (ex-Stonege) came to help out, proving Reign of Terror to be the hell-bent survivors that would let them release their third album, Threnody of the Impaled, under a new record label within the next year when Angel Corpse guitarist, Gene Palubicki, offered  Reign of Terror a contract with Evil Vengeance Records.

And luck was on their side! Reign of Terror would soon be blessed with their two guitarists again. Richard returned in time to record Threnody of the Impaled, and after its release in April 2002, Gilbert asked to be back in the band. By October, just a few months later, however, ROT underwent yet another change: this time Gilbert quit the band for good, leaving Reign of Terror the unholy trinity they are today.

This Unholy Trio, Marc, Richard, and CJ, are presently preparing to step into the studio once again to record their fourth full-length album, Satanic Upheaval.

With over 500 live performances and touring gigs with Cannibal Corpse, Deicide, Krisiun, Angel Corpse, Vital Remains, Monstrosity, among many others, Reign of Terror has made their mark on the death metal scene, and for those who enjoy pure black metal, ROT has yet another treat: their side-project Pyre, a satanic, dark, and evil Black metal band established in 1997. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reign+of+Terror">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.