Reign of the Architect is a progressive, symphonic metal act, formed in 2012 by Yuval Kramer.

 Reign of the Architect started as a multinational studio project in October 2008. A cooperation between Yuval Kramer, guitarist of the highly acclaimed Israeli metal band AMASEFFER and Mexican drummer Mauricio Bustamante with the basic storyline written by the Israeli metal singer Yotam ‘Defiler’ Avni, the lead death metal singer of PREY FOR NOTHING. They wrote ROTA’s debut album ‘Rise’, a Sci-Fi concept album, only by e-mailing each other combining their own regional musical influences, such as Mediterranean and Latin music, as well as film soundtracks into the language of progressive metal.

In March 2010, it was time for Mauricio to travel to Israel for the recordings. They decided to work with a variety of different musicians, some unknown and fresh talents, such as the current male singers and the keyboardist of the band, along side with big names of the World’s Rock and Metal scenes, such as:  the American bass virtuoso, Kyle Honea, who unfortunately was unable to finish the recordings so he was replaced in the middle of the project by the well-known SYMPHONY X ‘s bass player Mike LePond, the Dutch keyboard player Joost Van Den Broek (AYREON, AFTER FOREVER) contributed the keyboard solos on the band’s first single, “Distant Similarities“, the Israeli jazz-fusion guitarist Assaf Levy – a well-known player and respected musician in Israel – played the solos on two songs of the album and the legendary vocalist Jeff Scott Soto (YNGWIE MALMSTEEN, JOURNEY, TALISMAN, TRANS-SIBERIAN ORCHESTRA, QUEEN EXTRAVAGANZA TOUR)  performed the lead vocals on the band’s second single “We Must Retaliate”. 

More people appear in the album, like Adva Kramer, the classical soprano and contemporary/soul singer, as the “Teacher” and “Rapture”, Grace Hannah, a jazz-pop singer playing the “Girl”, Yotam, as “Ruin” and the members of the Israeli thrash metal band DARK SERPENT, as the soldiers of the final battle.

When the album was done, Kramer decided to take the whole thing to the stage. So he gathered musicians to form a 7 member group and transformed the studio project into an intense live performance. 3 vocalists of the Israeli metal scene, Davidavi Dolev, Tom Gefen and the half Israeli/half Argentinean Denise Scorofitz, the Greek keyboardist Nina Vouraki, the Israeli drummer Yuval ‘Boolbool’ Tamir, the Israeli bass player Nativ Kedem and of course Yuval Kramer in the guitars form the energy bomb called Reign of the Architect.

 The debut live show of the band was held on the 6th of June 2012 by supporting the almighty SYMPHONY X in Tel Aviv, Israel and in September 2012 they made their premiere tour in Russia/Ukraine.

In June 2012, the band signed with TFA mangement (BEHEMOTH etc) and since then they performed with global acts such as SYMPHONY X, THE FLOWER KINGS, PAIN OF SALVATION, ADROMEDA etc.

In January 2013, along with their manager Jon Knight, the band moved to the NY Extreme Management Group (INTO ETERNITY, SUFFOCATION, ABORTED, etc). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reign+of+the+Architect">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.