It started with a band called The Reign. In 2002, guitarist Vincent Foster teamed with bassist Jon Clark, drummer Kevin Pulver and vocalist Voltaire Andrews. Not long afterwards came the first CD “Here Beneath The Bone”. With critical acclaim the band played show after show spreading their music throughout the Midwest. While success did not come instantly, the band continued until in 2005, singer Voltaire left the band.
 
Foster searched for a whole year looking for someone who could fill the shoes left by the departure of Andrews. Sometimes you find something completely different than what you are searching for and that is the case for Vincent when he came across Lana Cosic. Lana who was playing bass for the band Dollface in her native Croatia when Vincent heard her classical trained voice he knew what was needed to complete the sound of Reign IV.
 
 
 
So with a new attitude and determination, Vincent looked for the players that would take this band to the next level with their new singing sensation.
 
Enter second guitarist Dave Levendowski. Bringing the old school vision of heavy metal to this new sound only gave the band Reign IV a dimension that makes their music unique. Heavily influenced by bands such as Dokken, Journey and Queensryche, this classic rock student has learned well and is passing on his knowledge in the form of mega doses metal mayhem.
 The young Eric Nartker was brought in on drums to help keep this new sound on the straight and narrow. His playing and fresh ideas make the band only that much stronger.
 With this new line-up and new found direction, Reign IV has unleashed its power and fury upon the world with the release of their new CD “Tale Untold”. One listen to this disc and you will be amazed at the masterful blend of European style metal with Midwestern rock and roll. Reign IV has captured the best of both worlds and has presented it in a way that will make all listeners become instant fans of the band.
  And this would go on to be the current line up

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reign+IV">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.