REINFECTION was formed in fall of 1994 by Pajak, former leader of the band MOB. At that time, Pajak decided to start another band as a side-project with the same line up but different vocalist. This band wanted to play a fusion of styles - intense and fast grind core and heavy and strong hard core. The first line up of REINFECTION consisted of: Rudolph (vocals), Pajak (guitar), Jasiek (bass) and Buli (drums). Following several successful shows and the recording of rehearsal tapes in the spring of 1995, Buli was asked to leave the band. He was repleaced by Mlody. Later on, Jasiek also left the band. REINFECTION continued playing shows and writing new songs. In the fall of 1995, Dix joined the band on the second guitar. A couple weeks after the addition of Dix, Michal returned from the army and joined the group on bass. Sometime following that, Pajak got married and left the band. At that time REINFECTION decided to start officially promoting the group. In November of 1997, the band recorded a four song official demo tape titled "THE EDGE OF HER EXISTENCE". The recording wasn't the best, but it showed the real face of the band's music - it's aggression and potential. To promote the recording Rudolph and Mlody created Horrific Records, the label that released the demo on tape format. "THE EDGE OF HER EXISTENCE" received many goood reviews and created an opportunity for the band to play in many cities spanning Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia. In the meantime Martin joined the group on second guitar, and sometime later, Dix left the band. That summer (1998) was a breakthrough for REINFECTION and created an opportunity to play many shows all over Europe, including countries such as France, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Czech Republic, Slovakia and many more. The band sold over 1,100 copies of the demo. In June of 1999 the group entered Izabelin Studio with Andrzej Karp behind the board to record their debut full lenght album entitled "THEY DIE FOR NOTHING". Right after the recording session they went on a European tour. The album was released worldwide on Ablated Records (RIP) and in Poland by Mad Lion Records. Shortly after this release, Martin left the band and his place was taken by Misiek. The response to "THEY DIE FOR NOTHING" was great. It resulted in many good reviews and interviews along with a large number of shows which increased the popularity of the band. More promoters and record labels were interested in the band. Together both labels, Ablated and Mad Lion sold over 5000 copies of "THEY DIE FOR NOTHING". In February of 2001, REINFECTION with the line up of: Rudolph (vocals), Misiek (guitar/bass) and Mlody (drums) recorded a three song promo tape. In January 2002, the band signed a deal for 7"ep with Displeased Records/From Beyond Productions from Holland. However, they never recorded that material, because the group split up shortly thereafter. In July of 2004 Mlody, Rudolph and Misiek got together and reformed the band. They wrote new songs and decided to be an active grind core act again. By the end of July 2004, they had recorded new songs in Warsaw and signed a record deal with Goregiastic Records from New York, USA to release new material along with the old (out of print) releases. The new CD entitled "PEACE THROUGH KILLING" will be out in the beginning of 2005. Expect total grind core devastation in the best form the band has ever performed!!!

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/reinfection#ixzz0rRlr5XLZ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reinfection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.