There are 3 acts called Rejected:

1. A Finnish streetpunk band;
2. A Dutch techno duo consisting of Joris Voorn and Edwin Oosterwal.
3. Old school harcdore band from Kutina, Croatia.
4. A Swedish southern rock band.
5. Rock bend from indjija serbia
1. 
Rejected are a streetpunk band from the small town of Lappeenranta,
Finland, nowadays based in Helsinki. Since 1998 Pete’s
smoky whisky-breath vocals have been spitting out songs of hate and love,
greed, violence and abuse, tequila and betrayal. Their sound mixes
the raw power of rock and roll with traces of hardcore and echoes of
... oi! Rejected are well known in the Finnish punk scene for their loud,
aggressive and energetic live shows, which attract punx,
psychobillies, skins and many other kinds of outcast. Jukka (guitar and vocals),
Pietu (guitar and vocals), Pete (bass and lead vocals) and Joel (drums)
are intoxicated with the spirit of youth and the colours of rebellion: let
them into your skin - REJECDEATH ROCK N ROLL!

2. Rejected is het samenwerkingsproject van DJ’s Joris Voorn en Edwin Oosterwal; 
Zij draaien in Rejected samen hun beste platen en nieuwe, nog niet uitgekomen, Rejected-tracks. Ze hebben dezelfde voorkeur voor kwaliteitshouse en techno, maar door hun unieke en aparte platencollecties vullen ze elkaar interessant aan en is hun dj-set kleurrijk en gevarieerd. Hun eerste EP is net uitgekomen op Sound Architecture Records en bevat twee techno tracks die flirten met de vroege jaren ’90 minimal techno en house.

Bij sommige optredens wordt Rejected aangevuld door vj en grafisch ontwerper Paul Swagerman, die met zijn audiovisuele vormgeving en bewegende beelden een Rejected-optreden naar een hoger plan tilt. www.rejected.nl 

This techno artist is pretty fucked up anyway :)

3. Rejected su bili jedini mladi nabrijani old-school bend u svoje vrijeme. Mladost, energija, volja… - imali su sve to! Zašto su se raspali nakon samo godinu-dvije svirke, znaju samo oni… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rejected">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.