Auckland, New Zealand

Relentless Attrition was formed under the name Disfigured Humanity in mid 2004, which comprised of Zeb Lazarus on Guitar, Dan Fyfe on Bass, and Nathan Baylis on Drums. This line up would remain without a vocalist for the year, but jammed as a three piece, writing songs, honing their skill, and consuming drugs and alcohol. Ben Hickling would join in March 2005, filling the much needed vacancy for vocals and providing a very powerful voice for the powerfully tight band. The band would play three shows with this line up, the most memorable being Malevolent Manifestation in May 2005 with locals Apokalyptic Goat Messaiah, Creeping, Heavy Artillary, and Erotic Necrosis. This show would prove to be a small stepping stone as the word started to spread of the band. But unfortunately due to conflicting personalities, and reasons of attitude and dedication, Nathan would be excused from the band. Nathan went on to join former band Erotic Necrosis, and form Black Metal band Winter Deluge. Ben, Dan and Zeb continued jamming, and recruited the help of second guitarist Jesse Critchley, and new drummer Francis McMannemin. With the new members it was decided a new name was in order. Relentless Attrition was then born. With a stable line up finally in place, the band took some time to focus on their musical direction. Relentless Attrition would peruse a sound that brought together all of the best things about extreme metal, intensity, brutality, technique, originality, but most of all the will to believe in it. The sound has been described as Brutal Technical Death Metal with influences of Black and Thrash. This first incarnation of Relentless first debuted on July 15th 2005 at Edens hole, with Legends Ulcerate, Asphxiate, Guest Stabs Host, and Antagonist. RA continued playing shows steadily for the rest of 2005 which amongst more kiwi legends Dawn of Azazel, Sinate, Demiurge, Odius Embowel, and Brutalised Mortality. The most successful show was the 'Bearer of Brutality', on December 3rd 2005, with Ulcerate, Asphxiate, and Demiurge. December 3rd also saw the release of the first Relentless EP, 'Lethal Compulsions'. The cd features 4 tracks, Psychotic Recall, Ectopic Pregnancy, Asphalt Tranquility, and Reek of Divinity. The Lethal Compulsions EP helped establish the band in the local scene, and helped RA get the opening slot for Disgorge's Auckland R18 show on Disgorge's 'Paralels of Infinate Torture' tour, and a slot on the Hellington Metal Fest, both in February of 2006. In March of 2006, Jesse would part way with Relentless Attrition to persue other interests. He went on to form Brutal Death outfit Carnal. The band then took a break from playing due to the loss of Zeb's younger brother, Isaac Lazarus. Practicing continued in July, as preparation was made for a small string of highly enjoyed shows, including opening for Skinless on the Wellington leg of their NZ tour, HCX and Extreme Metal Monolith 'Battles In The North', and the one night only reformation of the most badass of NZ bands, FORCED TO SUBMIT. In November 2006 Francis left the fold because of his declining mental state, which left the band in an awkward position for a few months. With a stroke of luck, RA found the perfect drummer in Corey Friedlander, who brought a refreshing playing style and dedication. Coreys drum style dramatically changed the sound of the band, and further refined the bands style with his balance of hard hitting and technique. This line up saw the world in February 2007 at the Valiant Graveyard, which showed the potential of the new line up, and introduced the band to Sally Gates, who joined RA as lead guitarist, and further extended the sound and style of the band.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Relentless+Attrition">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.