Religious Nightmare was created in June 2003 in downtown Manila, Philippines, starting out as a crust / grind / metal side project from members of Decadencia, Drill Pillow and Loss of Control. Their first 3 song demo was released on mp3.com in July 2003. Later, a 7-song self titled CDr demo (out of print) was released in December of the same year. 

Their noise infused grind brought them to diverse bills playing with local punk/metal hordes and also noise/experimental artists. They played everywhere from warehouses, abandoned squat buildings, QC club gigs, "rock" bars, house parties and lots of out of town gigs. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, they released 3 limited edition "livebootlegs+remixes" CDr's (out of print), featuring live tracks, remixes by longtime friends foodshelter&clothing and Lightsleeper, old demos and the live noise track "The Methamphetamine Arsonist" with different color sleeves and artwork. later a remix by QC noise artist Utnapishtim also appeared online.

The debut record "The Junkyard of Infinity" was recorded on October 14, 2007 at Earbender Studios in Cavite, with acclaimed local sound engineer Macoy Manuel. All 8 songs were recorded live. Vocals, mixing, mastering (and debating, smoking, drinking, extracurricular sh*t) were all finished within the 7 hour recording session. The band played their last 2 shows in Makati and Las Piñas, after which, guitarist Albert left for the USA leaving the band in hiatus. Advance CDr promos were given to friends, zines and metal radio stations. Some of these have "The Methamphetamine Arsonist" as a hidden track.

5 songs were then released on a 3-way split CD entitled "Therapy for the Insane" with Tropical Painforest (Austrian experimental/breakcore) and Rosemary Malign (USA noise/power electronics) under System Breakdown Recordings in Austria. 1 promo track is on a Placenta Records compilation CD in Europe as well. 

On Nov 29, 2009, One-A Records signed the band and finally released the recording in the band's true vision - "The Junkyard of Infinity" which was released on Dec. 30, 2009, and dedicated to DJM. The band reunited to play with Gerry Dueñas of Intoxication of Violence (also in Brutal Punishment) as guest guitarist on May 2, 2010. It was their CD release party with labelmates Pukelization and some killer local bands: DFTW, Pus Vomit, Nuclear Punishment, Gilinganne, Windfall, Anal Fissure, Infest, Mass Hypnosia, Tsimpayne. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Religious+Nightmare">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.