1. Goth Rock from Phoenix, AR, USA.
2. Funeral Doom Metal from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

They have a web site at http://www.reliquary.org/.

“…quietly intoxicating and genuinely lovely.” -Mick Mercer

Phoenix-based Reliquary has become a favorite in the goth music scene. Their influences span several genres, including goth rock, industrial, darkwave and classical. Bands that have helped mold their sound include Faith and The Muse, The Smiths, Qntal, Lacrimosa and Requiem in White. Because of their diverse influences and original sound, Reliquary appeals to and is enjoyed by a wide audience.

Reliquary consist of Kara on vocals, Loki on guitar, and Suriel on bass. Loki and Suriel provide the complex and driving background while Kara’s classically trained voice provides a beautiful melodic counterpoint that completes Reliquary’s sound. Expect to hear layer upon layer of synth, drums, and strings, along with intricate guitar work and vocal styles ranging from a hauntingly introspective whisper to classic opera.

Reliquary staked their claim within the goth scene opening for the likes of Faith and The Muse, Bella Morte, The Last Dance, and The Cruxshadows, in addition to headlining many of their own shows.

Reliquary’s current album, Winter World, indulges listeners in a rich symphonic experience. It has seen many successes, including frequent play by DJ’s in goth and darkwave clubs, and several outstanding reviews in popular publications such as Orkus and Zillo. Reliquary also reached #8 on the Italian alternative radio charts, leading to their invitation to play Wave Gotik Treffen in Germany, one of the largest annually-held goth/darkwave festivals.

Reliquary is signed to Final Joy Records (http://finaljoyrecords.com), based in Phoenix, AZ, who has partnership with Black Rain Records (http://blackrain.de) in Germany. They are currently working on a new album, and are looking forward to sharing new dark and beautiful music with their fans. 

2.
Canada is known for its bleak winters and harsh extreme scene. Reliquary, the newest offering from Canada, does not break the mold set forth by their extreme predecessors and channels the country's winter doldrums into some of the bleakest music yet. "Nothingness Victory" is a 13 minute slab of depressive funeral doom unlike any previous release on Dark Descent Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reliquary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.