Ladies may swoon over the tough-talking city boys, but in the end what they really want is an old-fashioned southern gentleman. A man who understands the importance of chivalry-- one who'll show up on the doorstep with a dozen long-stem roses just because, or will massage her feet after a long day at work. One who'll serve her favorite dinner by candlelight, or cater to her when she's sick. They want a brother who can make love to his woman every night, re-igniting all the fire and passion of their very first time. That's where the hypnotic, soulful and multi-talented RELL steps in. Hailing from the small, dusty town of Bowman, South Carolina, not only is RELL a certifiable vocal powerhouse, he's a bonafide gentleman. 

Exuding the amorous spirit and old-school charm of those who hail from below the Mason-Dixon line--soul legends such as Stevie Wonder, Al Green and Sam Cooke-- RELL's poignant, thoughtfully penned lyrics are the perfect compliment to his goosebump-inducing pipes and multi-octave range… RELL is guaranteed to restore hope among soul aficionados weary of lewd lyrics and over-sexed R&B acts. 

The former South Carolina State pre-med student's sizzling debut has been a long time coming. The first male R&B solo artist signed to Roc-a-Fella Records, RELL got his first break in 1998, appearing in Jay-Z's rap cult flick Streets Is Watching, and contributing the feel-good club banger Love For Free to the movie's soundtrack. Going on to sing hooks for nearly every Roc-A-Fella MC since --including Jay's It's Obvious and Freeway's Victim Of The Ghetto-- and appearing on The Message featuring Mary J. Blige from Dr. Dre's classic Chronic 2001, RELL knew it was just a matter of time before he could introduce his sophisticated, seductively retro sound to the masses. 

I like speaking to the ladies on behalf of all the men out there, he explains of his confectionery ballads, most of which he wrote. I love the idea that a guy will hear what I'm saying, play it for his girl and say, 'You know what? That's how I feel about you, right there. That's what I'm trying to say. Sit down right here and press play,' he laughs. At the end of the day, I'm just the interpreter. 


Contact/Booking Information:
5TH House Enterprises, LLC
alonda@fifthouse.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.