Reluctant Mortem is a melodic death metal/death metal band from Long Island and Queens New York. 

The band started as a hard rock band in 2008 with only three members during the time. The band's name was FCOL. Realizing that they were going nowhere, the band stopped practicing for years. The band tried starting up again, and wanted to practice again. Unfortunately, the band lost a member (Noel Cahill) and were left with only two members (Aaron and Andrew). After about another year, the name was changed to Bloodlust Aqueduct and the genre was changed to melodic death metal. The two became a group of five. The band was practicing more and more often. The band consisted of two guitarists (Andrew Bloch and Michael Pasini), a drummer (Ian Oshinsky), a keyboardist (Erwin Yanes), no bass player, and vocals (Aaron Harris). After many complications, the band had to let go of the keyboardist then became four. 
Bloodlust Aqueduct became determined to find a bass player, and eventually looked to a friend of Aaron and Andrew, Nick Rubin. From there, the band became five again. The five finished their EP setlist in a fairly short time, but still had no shows.

The band had to let go of one of the guitarists Michael Pasini. After the change, then band no longer felt like Bloodlust Aqueduct anymore was a name that worked. During a class in school, Aaron, Andrew, and the honorary band assistant Max began brain storming ideas for a new name. After constant brain storming, the band became known as Reluctant Mortem. The rest of the bandmates liked the name idea, and ever since then we have been known as NY Death Metal/Melodic Death Metal band Reluctant Mortem.

Reluctant Mortem finally had their first show at The Blue Parrot in Massapequa on September 25th, 2011 which received good feedback and played another show with thier drummer Ian on May 16th, 2012 at the vibe lounge. Afterwards, the band then eventually parted ways with Nick and Ian, and eventually found the right drummers for them to write material and do shows, which were Leor Gayr and Matt Hass. Reluctant Mortem then played a zombie themed metal show with thier new drummer Matt on October 13th, 2012 at the zebra club without thier bassist nick. The band soon after that show found bassist Justin Macioch and recruited him to the band. Reluctant Mortem is currently one of Long Island's only active melodic death metal bands. Because of that fact, they are motivated to make more music, play shows, and keep the scene alive.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reluctant+Mortem">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.