There is more than one artist with this name.

1) Remembrance is a funeral doom metal band from Lille, France, counting two members: Matthieu Sachs (from Semper Dolens and Lethian Dreams) and Carline Van Roos (from Aythis and Lethian Dreams). The obsession to create depressive and dark music made Remembrance come alive in June 2004. 
The first album "Frail Visions" offers a desperate death doom metal with sorrowful and gloomy keyboard atmospheres, deep grunts, and heavy but also up-tempo guitar parts. It got released through TotalRust Music by the end of September 2005, Remembrance also contributes to a compilation album, "Asymmetry" which is also released through TotalRust Music. In October 2007 Firedoom Music added Remembrance to the roster. The band and label have negotiated a contract for one album; the much-awaited second full-length Remembrance studio album, "Silencing the Moments...", was recorded in Summer 2007 and was released in April 2008.

2) Remembrance is a christian metalcore band from Lansing, Michigan. The band released their debut album, “Beyond the Scope of Reason”, on Sancrosanct Records in 2007. The band was featured on the Sanctuary Stage at Cornerstone Festival 2007.

3) Remembrance (ex-Eternal Remembrance) is doom metal band from Tuzla formed in 1994.

4) Remembrance was a darkwave / gothic rock band from Spain founded in 1994 by Frank M. Angel (voice & guitars) and Raúl López (programs & keyboards). In 1996 they released the album “Oblivion” with the German label “Sounds of Delight”. Remembrance also added two songs to the compilation “Sounds of Delight”. The band split in 2002.

http://www.myspace.com/remembranceoblivion

5) Remembrance was a Finnish doom metal band, which recorded a demo in 1995 and then vanished.

6) Remembrance is a Polish hard rock band from Wrocław.

7) Remembrance is a Marcel Thee's musical project. 

8) Remembrance is a MeloDeath band from Venezuela. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Remembrance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.