Artists go by the name of Renegade:
1) A hardcore band from Western Sydney, Australia.
2) A 90s jungle/drum & bass artist.
3) An early NWOBHM band from Kent, UK.
4) A thrash metal band from Melbourne, Australia.
5) A Bulgarian rock group.
6) A Swedish hair metal/AOR Band.
7) Lithuanian garage rock band from Ukmergė.
8) A glam rock band from the 1970s.
9) An electronic/techno duo from Sweden.
10) An 80's oi!/punk band from NW London.
11) An Iowa based hard rock band active from 1981-1983.
12) Hardcore Punk band from Singapore.

1)Coming straight out of Sydney, Australia
Renegade formed early 2009.

We tell it how it is.
We play shows for the good times!
Come to a show and break shit.
http://www.myspace.com/renegadehc

2) Renegade is Ray Keith and Gavin Cheung. The most well known Renegade is the UK Jungle/Drum and Bass artist. Famous for their first release of the 'Terrorist' tune which was released by Moving Shadow in 1994 and is one of the most well-known tracks in the genre which influenced many other drum and bass artists at the time. This artist has had this name since the early 90s. For a complete discography, check their releases at Discogs.

3) The British Renegade were an early NWOBHM band who released one single, "Lonely Road", in 1980.

4) There may not be a god in heaven, but if there's a devil in hell I'm absolutely positive His Satanic Majesty looks exactly like the red reptilian bastard on RENEGADE's one and only LP. In retrospect I feel like a complete twat for not grabbing the album the first time I saw it. With a sleeve like this one you cannot go wrong! It may be ugly as hell, but there's no doubt in your mind it will carry some really riveting Satanic Speed Metal within it's folds. You can virtually see the unpleasantly naughty hordes of hell in front of you, raising their right hands doing the sign of the devil as they chant the chorus to the incredible title track: "TOTAL! TOTAL! ARMAGEDDON!, TOTAL! TOTAL! ARMAGEDDON!!" It's hectic, raw and malicious, with more focus on energy than technical perfection. It's kind of a relief that there were bands around at this time who just didn't copycat Slayer on their road to Thrash Metal-infamy, but rather glanced towards the likes of ONSLAUGHT, EXORCIST and perhaps most of all, the mighty DESTRUCTOR! I'd love to say that there's more to Renegade's sound than that, but I think I've managed to pigeonhole them pretty accurately there. No particular need for outstanding originality when playing in this Metallic top-division. In songs like "Decapitation", "Riot Squad Gladiator" and "Black Ritual" they truly master the long lost art of minimal, never-ending minor chord caresses which many top-quality bands - from FLOTSAM & JETSAM to SARCÓFAGO - has employed with such grace both before and after. I can only speculate why RENEGADE never conquered the world with this album, but it's probably the usual fallacies: a somewhat thin production, the occasionally wiggly rhythm section and being one or two years too late with the Evil Thrash-gimmick. In retrospect, these factors shouldn't matter much to fans of this exciting brand of Metal.

5) Renegade is one of the bands the Bulgarian rock painfully needs. The boys from the town of Plovdiv follow closely their own author stream, for which – none knows why – they are accused to be “imposing”. All the band’s songs are in Bulgarian and the continuous release of albums, videos and DVDs shows a good activity and condition. The last could be easily checked if one goes to a concert of theirs - sound, lights and pyro effects are always present and made professionally.

6) Renegade is also a band from Jönköping, Sweden which was formed in 1988.
     It's band members are:

Magnus Tallaker (vocals)
Mats Ottoson (guitar) 
Thomas Kullman (guitar)
Fredrik Gahn (drums)
Per Billengren (keyboard) 
Hakan Jardmo (bass)

At the end of 1992 the Swedish band Renegade released their first album, 'Time to choose'. About one year later their second album 'Ravages of Time' was released. In the beginning of 1995, Renegade started to produce and record new songs for a third album, 'Renegade III'.


9) Patrik Kindvall & Conny Granlund are Renegade, an unsigned electronic/techno duo from Stockholm, Sweden. Their music can be found on http://www.myspace.com/renegadenow

10) Notable for their tracks on the compilation albums, 'Oi! The Resurrection' and 'The Sound of Oi!'.

11) Estherville, Iowa based band recorded a 7" featuring the tracks "Rescue Me" and "Don't Stop, Let's Rock" in 1981. "Don't Stop, Let's Rock" is also featured on the popular proto-punk compilation Bonehead Crunchers Vol. 1 released in 2012. Bassist David Ellefson was a member for a short period just prior to moving to Los Angeles and forming Megadeth with Dave Mustaine. He did not record with the band.

12) Hardcore Punk band from Singapore. https://renegadegruv.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Renegade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.