Sakke Paavola - Vocals
Joonas Paananen - Guitar
Tuomas Kauppinen - Guitar
Tuppu Kumpulainen - Bass
Ville Halonen - Drums

Biography:

Reprisal Scars was born in the fall of 2003 in Jyväskylä, Finland when four employees of club Lutakko decided to form a band. The first demo was released just a few months later in January 2004. Due to positive feedback the band decided to write more material and after intensive training and a few line-up changes later their second demo, Evidence saw daylight in the year 2005. The demo appeared to be a minor hit, it sold over 1000 copies and won the demo of the week-competition on Finnish national radio YleX and songs ended up on various compilations. Slowly but surely they started to get following and played their first ever gig.

Their 2006 release, Done Is Done demo opened more doors, receiving good reviews and radioplay throughout Europe and the band ended up on touring Finland with fellow metallers Heavy Metal Perse. The demo sold around 1400 copies and the band played over 30 gigs supporting it.

The year 2007 was spent on gigging and writing new stuff. By the end of the year, original vocalist Jyrki Markkanen decided to step aside and Teemu Kupari was found as a replacement. Although audience was already waiting for a full length CD, the band was not ready for this and decided to record one more demo. Heavier vocalist meant heavier sound and on January 2008 they released Dead End Road - their last demo as they announced - sounding heavier than ever, once again winning the demo of the week competition on YleX.

But soon storm clouds started to gather over the garden of love: Their rhythmic backbone, guitarist Santtu Rautio announced that he would leave the group right after the recording sessions and fully concentrate on his other band Obscurant. His final gig was Dead End Road release show at club Lutakko, the very same place where it all began. Things took even worse turn after the next gig as vocalist Teemu Kupari quit the band due to his busy work and study schedules. For the rest of the band this meant a hiatus which lasted all the way to summer of 2008.

The remaining three members decided that whatever happens they will stick to the original plan to record a full length album and booked the studio from Hannu Honkonen at Studio Noisework. After this things really started to happen. With only 8 weeks until the deadline they asked both guitarists from a band Venthole to join their ranks, Sakke Paavola as a vocalist and Tuomas "Reuhka" Kauppinen as a guitarist. Fellows agreed and this lead to intensive rehearsing sessions for seven weeks. As a result they wrote 5 new songs and had 13 songs ready for recordings.

Recording sessions were completed during July 13th - August 10th and 10 songs ended up on their debut album, Killing Art Of Self-Deception. The album will be released on November 5th through Violent Journey Records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reprisal+Scars">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.