Repressor (Syed Raza), one half of the powerhouse duo 'Subfractal' is an acclaimed techno DJ and producer from New York City who is quickly spreading his beats far beyond the US borders with recent bookings in Germany, Mexico, India and Korea.

He is more than just an artists or an ordinary DJ. Syed delivers his passion for the pure sound of underground, heavy, driving, raw techno. His productions and sets are no-nonsense techno but cater to the crowd of true techno lovers. With his sound, Syed explores, pushes and re-defines the boundaries of electronic music, which would make the techno pioneers in Berlin proud.

Having always had a passion for music, Syed first discovered his skills at the turntables in 2003. It didn’t take long for him to realize that this was his to become his life-dedication. He spent days, months, years learning the inner workings and productions of techno and DJ’ing to develop the sound he has today. He is committed to provide his numerous fans and followers with limitless supply of pure banging techno.

'Killing Machine Records' had Syed working A&R for several years in the past. He now focuses on his own, highly respected American techno label - 'Frakture Audio'. But that’s not nearly all! Over the last few years Syed has been operating Sama, an underground techno movement, which showcases the finest, top tier, international techno artists the world has to offer.

Re-Konstrukt, Syed’s most recent project, is an agency specializing in artist management and talent booking as well as event production, promotional campaigns, mastering and brand design. The main focus of Re-Konstrukt is to spread the love of techno to the world and beyond! Re-Konstrukt will also be launching its own record label, De-Konstrukt next year.

As if he hasn’t achieved enough, the driven and ambitious entrepreneur has been involved in yet another venture. Syed has been running his own two shows on the well-respected electronic music station 'Digitally Imported Radio'’ One show is dedicated to his label and the other to his agency.

It didn’t take long for Repressor to get signed to some of the most respected techno labels in the scene. Within only a few weeks of Repressor officially launching his alias, labels including Nachtstrom Schallplatten, Frequenza, Refluxed Records, Eklero Records, Drowne Records, Roof Audio, Mekanism, Pragmatic, Heaven To Hell Records & more were thrilled to sign his tracks.

With his first upcoming releases, Repressor has acquired huge support from some of the leading techno producers such as Pfirter, Luis Flores, Tom Hades, IFormat, Hugo Paixao, Angel Costa, Andres Gil and Drumloch, who will be remixing his forthcoming EP's.

There is no doubt about it – Repressor has the drive, ambition, ability and flexibility to take control of this dynamic sector of the music industry but even more he has true passion and dedication to the pure sounds of underground techno. With his upcoming gigs around the world, Syed has been breaking into new markets and gaining universal recognition and there is yet much more to come! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Repressor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.