Reptilian Death came into existence in May 2001 as a solo project of the Demonstealer (Of Demonic Resurrection fame).The project was meant to be a grindcore/death metal project. At the end of May 2001 Reptilian Death released its 1st recording which was a collection of 5 songs called "5 Easy Ways To Murder Someone" with each song representing a different method of murder. The songs were a mix of death metal and grindcore but contained the unusual element of humor which gave the whole concept a sort of spoof feel. After this release the project took a back seat until November 2001 which was when Reptilian Death turned from a solo project into a full fledged band after Husain joined as the bassist and Jaivir joined as guitarist and The Demonstealer took over drums and vocal duties. The band prepared itself with 2 new songs "No Way To Die" and "The 2nd Coming Of Evil" and traveled to Bangalore City to play its 1st live show at The National Law Schools event "Strawberry Fields". Sadly the show never happened and Reptilian Death ended up doing an acoustic death metal set at Planet M due to distortion not being allowed. 

The band returned to Bombay and did their 1st proper gig at Razzberry Rhino. The bands high energy act and intensity got them a good response from people. Following which they recruited a 2nd guitar player, Girish Menon. The band continued touring the local college and club circuit and even bagged a best drummer and bass bassist at a local competition, which was unusual for a metal band to do.

After the bands gig at the RAIT College festival in 2003 the band more or less stopped playing live as the band members were busy with other commitments. In July 2003 The Demonstealer decided to continue the project solo once again and followed up the earlier "5 Easy Ways To Murder Someone" with another concept song called "Nursery Rhymes For Satan’s Children" as well as recording the bands 5 originally composed songs and planed to release an album in August 2003.Things however did not go as planned and the album got postponed indefinitely.

The Demonstealer then bought the band back together for IIT's Livewire show, where 
Sunny (Epithap) replaced Jaivir on guitars and Nitin (Morticide) took over the main vocal duties. This is was a one off gig for the band and happened to be the last for Girish who passed away in Febuary 2004 after which the band pretty much stopped existing, but Demonstealer did go ahead and release the much awaited album titled ‘Total Annihilation’ in July 2004. 

After 2 years RD was resurrected for a briefly during the end of 2005 for 2 gigs where Pradeep (Demonic Resurrection) handling guitars and new member Sugath doing vocals. Following this the Demonstealer once again flew solo and wrote a new RD EP titled ‘Intestinal Feast’ where he handled all the music and Sugath featured as the vocalist and lyricist. The EP was released in late 2006 on a split CD called ‘Defaced and Split’ on Demonstealer Records. Following which the band started touring again with new guitarist Arjun, Husain (Bass), Sugath (Vocals) and Demonstealer (Drums). The band toured for almost a year after which it went back into hibernation.

Currently Demonstealer is writing material for a new release in 2008.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reptilian+death">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.