Reptilia (R.G. Rouman)
Biography

His passion for music came out in his childhood  - at this particular time  Roman began his experiments in dance music. As he didn’t have any special hardware he made his first tracks and mixes with the help of  audio cassette recorder and recording tapes. The young talent’s experiments continued , he created his first  pieces playing old piano. At that time nobody could imagine that his hobby would become serious  matter: in time Roman took a pen-name Reptilia and began his active experiments in technomusic.

The very first results  came at once,  the debute  album, named Stereo Dumb, was released in 2004 already . The young talent preferred not to stop: in a year his track Music It’s my life released on well-known lable Inferno People Promo (St. Petersburg). The same year his first performance took place: Reptilia took part in music fest Electroline, which took place in legendary night club  Garage Underground in Chelyabinsk city. His performance was  noticed , organizers were pleasantly surprised by the level  and the quality of the youngest competitor music. 

Becoming a resident of one of the underground night clubs  of Chelyabinsk,  was the next cycle of his  career. Reptilia gained  much more dj experience , he learned how to predict  audience  wishes, what influenced his further producing  work. Track Devil Machine became a real breakthrough, it put the public in a flutter with its groundbreaking  new , tough sound.  Writing  a second  album Atlantic Star, including   compositions  for the last few years, became equally important for the musician.

Keep on hard working in studio Reptilia reap the harvest of his labor:  in the beginning  of 2007 singles Electronic Love and Acid Rain  came out .The last one became a real hit , being a success , it was on rotation in several night clubs of the South Urals capital. In the end of 2007 one of the most known musicians tracks was written – Leave Life. The track made a hit due to unique compositions made of the finest  melodies  and hardcore bit, no real fan of electronic music was left untouched .

The border of 2008 and 2009 became the moment of real breakthrough for Reptilia: his track Biory Story was released  on Diamond Records , at the same time he concluded contracts with labels Carica Revelation and Dont Look Productions. Besides Roman paid much attention to live performances – together with his band Reptilia.Live Band he blew up Electroline 08 festival and Pir Duhha 5 festival.

At the moment Reptilia goes on developing his music skills and is working on the new music.


Albums:
2009 - Electro Mechanica
2008 - When People Cry
2007 - Compressor Terminal
2006 - Atlantic Star
2004 - Stereo Dumb

Promo singles:
2009 - Robotonic Twist EP
2009 - Biory Story
2008 - Positive Life (Song with word "When"...)
2008 - Leave Life
2007 - Acid Rain
2007 - Electronic Love
2006 - Devil Machine
2005 - Lonesome Child

Releases:
2009 - Diamond Records, Inferno People Promo \ Electro Mechanica  (album cd)
2009 - Dont Look Productions \ Drugs Land EP (1. Drugs Land \ 2. Gauss tank \ 3. Relay station) (Digital Release)
2009 - Carica Revelation \ Mobilize - Before We born (Reptilia remix) (Digital Release)
2008 - Diamond Records \ Biory Story (Diamond Sessions Vol. 2 - Brilliant Russian) (CD Compilation)
2006 - Inferno People Promo \ Lonesome Child (Child of Trance vol.2) (CD Compilation)
2005 - Inferno People Promo \ Music it's my live (Child of Trance vol.1) (CD Compilation)

Reptilia's offcail site www.reptilia.su
Myspace page www.myspace.com/djreptilia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reptilia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.