There are multiple artists with this name:

1) A Swedish death metal band formed in 1998
2) A Filipino grindcore/crust band formed in 2009

1) Repugnant is a death metal band from Stockholm, Sweden which formed in June 1998 by guitarist and vocalist Mary Goore. The following eighteen months saw the band establish themselves in the global underground circuit with debut demo cassette “Spawn of Pure Malevolence” and 7’ep “Hecatomb” selling thousands worldwide.

In 2000, the band signed to Dutch record label Hammerheart Records with the intention of releasing a full length album on the label. However, due to sudden line-up changes and the overall inexperience of the band of how to handle dysfunctional personnel situations (which in turn lead to a postponement of the intentional album recording), Repugnant was found a wee bit too difficult to work with for Hammerheart and was therefore released from the contract.

In order to restore order and refine their act, a new line-up of Repugnant took a step back from the full length plans and released a second demo cassette; “Draped in Cerecloth” in September 2001.
This four song recording attracted even further recognition in the underground and lead to the collaboration with another Dutch label – Soulseller Records, whom took upon them to release Repugnant's debut album; “Epitome of Darkness”.

Unfortunately, the album was extensively delayed and in the wake of its.. arrival, Repugnant collapsed after a tour in the spring of 2004.

In 2010, six years later, Repugnant returns for festival appearances throughout Europe and beyond.

Past members has since their involvement with Repugnant kept going with other bands such as Grave, Dismember, General Surgery, Kaamos, Subvision and lately – Ghost and Iron Lamb.

2) Grindcore/Crustcore band formed in may 2009. Have released one demo.
MySpace: http://www.myspace.com/allrepugnant <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Repugnant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.