Requiem Laus is a Portugese Melodic Black Metal band formed in 1992 with Miguel Freitas, Marcelo Freitas,  Bruno Silva and Tony Figueira, being this the first line-up.

In 1994 the demo "Life Fading Existence" is released. During this time, they start to perform a few local shows.

In 1996 the "For the Ones Who Died" is released. Becoming a big hit for Portuguese Metal. Now featuring Oscar Pereira on bass. Again, the begin to do a few promotional shows in their home of Portugal. The band is now well known enough, in the Portuguese underground Metal scene.

During 1998 Dani Pereira joins the band as the new guitarist, Jorge Castro also joins as keyboardist and Ricardo Fernandes for bass. In which, they contribute for the demo "For the Ones who Died", which is now their first CD.

In 2000 the demo "Through Aeons" is released. The band plays all through Portugal touring with bands such as: Mysterium, Cyborium, Kormoss, De Profundis, Humanart, Avulsed and so on.

In the gap of 2001 and 2002 the band struggles with losing members, and end up taking some time off.

In 2005 they return, now with Luis Barreto on drums. They headlined in the Roquefest tour in Azores, and also did a couple of shows in Madeira.

In 2006 (which featured Jorge Abreu on drums), the band released their promo "Promo 2006 ". Getting great reviews and media attention. Doing frequent live gigs clubs with Karnak Seti and Siamese Cancer. And performing for the SWR-IX Metalfest with popular Metal bands including:  Bolt Thrower, God Dethroned, Hate, Carpathian Forest, Keep of Kalessin, Obtest, Shurim, Theriomorphic, The Ransack...

Now, that they've reached the peek of fame - in 2007 they recorded and mixed their first full length "The Eternal Plague" in Sweden's Studio Underground. Now becoming new and almost releasing an album finally, they did a hometown gig in Rocks Club, a small festival with Godog, Necris Dust, Thee Orakle and Deep Cut. Also, they opened for Akercocke along with Paranormal Waltz and Disaffected... Now with Gabriele on  drums.

2008, the debut release of "The Eternal Plague", through the record label; 666 Production, they become a big hit of Portugal but, still manage to re-claim their underground status in Portugal's underground Metal scene. They play at Metal Gdl 2008 concert with Krisiun, Devildriver, Lay Down Rotten, Hatesphere, The Firstborn and other local bands. 

  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Requiem+Laus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.