Requiem For Oblivion is a progressive metal outfit based in Erie, Pennsylvania. The band was formed in 2007 by front man/vocalist/lead guitarist Steve Jacobson (former member of Sacramento death metal band, Forsake The Flesh). Jacobson originally moved from California to Pennsylvania for matters of the heart but soon discovered that Erie had more to offer. Jacobson had been an experienced metal guitarist for years, experimenting with altered tunings, 7 and 8 string guitars and taking countless influence from progressive songwriters (mainly Canadian prog-rockers Rush, though other influences have been cited).

Requiem For Oblivion started out as a conceptual project, based around Jacobson's past of drug abuse and heavy addictions (Songs such as "The Release" and "You, Not Me" having lyrics heavily involved with these themes). As of yet a full length album hasn't been released but it is possible that it will be a concept album.

The first to accompany Steve on this project was Reno, Nevada native Mike Bryan. Bryan is an experienced and well-rounded drummer, familiar with blastbeats, odd time signatures and everything in between. He has had past experience playing in bands, most notably post-punk. Bryan moved to Erie and shortly after was introduced to Steve by well known Erie resident, Ruth Thompson. As the two first met and began playing together they sensed that it was a perfect fit, like two puzzle pieces falling together.

Steve wrote most of the material before even moving to Erie and spent a good chunk of time working with Mike and teaching him all of it. Steve has experience with DIY recording so he recorded all of the bass, guitar and vocal parts himself and had Mike lay down electronic drums for the early, rough recordings.

The next member to join Requiem For Oblivion was Erie native and seasoned guitarist TJ HInman. TJ's previous band experience was small, most projects never making it past deciding on a name. However, TJ is a very experienced Jazz guitarist and brings a creepy, ambient element to the band. Much like with Bryan, Steve found TJ through Ruth Thompson.

Now a power trio, the band began working together intensely, perfecting each and every song and each member adding their own spin on certain parts. After working together for about a year they made an attempt to do something not many metal bands do...play acoustic shows.

The interesting thing about RFO's material is that it could adapt to the world of acoustics. TJ played a 12 string guitar, Steve played a standard six (and did the vocals) and Mike played a cajon (a box drum that one would sit on and hit in certain spots to get specific sounds). With this combined power they played various gigs around the Erie area. This era was well-liked by some but overall it wasn't really recognized.

With the acoustic gigs out of the way, the band managed to turn it up to eleven and play actual metal shows. The first official gig they ever had was in Geneva, Ohio at a venue called the Cove. They were on the bill with a variety of other metal bands in the Ohio area and were opening for metal band Ventana. From that point they have opened for Ventana on other seperate occasions and even opened for Mushroomhead and played a show hosted by the notorious Metal Sanaz. RFO have played many shows with Erie metal legends Scarwork and are slowly but surely making their mark in the Pennsylvania area.

Requiem For Oblivion have a sound that is hard to categorize. There are many different elements within the music from folk, to ambient, to thrash metal, to black metal and so on. Steve took influence from a lot of Norwegian black metal, Scandinavian Death metal, 70's prog rock, 80's metal and so on. The band as a whole has been heavily influenced by bands with gloomy atmospheres such as Novembers Doom, Daylight Dies, Opeth, Swallow The Sun, Katatonia, Agalloch, etc. These influences definitely bleed out into the music. Songs have been known to switch genres anywhere from twice to five times within.

The musicianship is also very technical, odd time signatures, complex scale switching and lightning fast leads not being elements missing in their music. But the band isn't afraid to slow it down or make something sad and beautiful. The music can be brutally intense one moment, than ominous and haunting the next. To describe Requiem For Oblivion under one type of metal is near impossible, which is why they are just called progressive metal until someone can come up with a way to describe what it is they do.

Requiem For Oblivion are still growing strong today. The bass player and second guitarist positions need to be filled again due to musical differences with past members.  However, the original core members, Steve and Mike still remain intact. Corbin Fowler played bass with the band for a select number of months in addition to Will Walker after him.  However, due to conflicting differences or side projects that appealed more to their interests, they departed RFO. Other bass players have come and gone but nothing yet to be confirmed. TJ left the band to play bass for The Treble Makers in Erie. The band will continue to write and produce/record music and place new songs on various social media platforms. Keep an eye (and ear) out for the new sound!

Please listen for yourself at www.myspace.com/requiemforoblivion experienced the sorrowed, heavy atmosphere. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Requiem+for+Oblivion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.