There are two artists known as Resilience:

1st: Resilience began in late 1999 as an underground street punk band with a blend of rock and Oi in Santa Rosa, CA where they remain today. 

2nd: Resilience is a Dutch metal band formed in 2009 and is based in Delft, the Netherlands. www.resiliencemusic.nl


Resilience from Santa Rosa, CA:
Resilience was first formed by the singer, Fury, who gives the band its unique street punk sound that so many love to this day. Through all the time they've been together, they have only had a few member changes. The original bassist, Psycho, left the band around the year 2005 forcing the rhythm guitarist, Skut, to go on bass leaving the band with 4 members which is their current line-up:
Fury (Vocals)
Spyte (Guitar, back-up vocals)
Skut (Bass, back-up vocals)
Johnny (Drums, back-up vocals) 

Through their music career they have released 3 full-length albums. Never Give In was their first album in 2002 which generally focused around the aspect of never giving in, D.I.Y., and the overall mentality of punk rock. Three years later in 2005, they released the album Sound of Strength which is right around when they began to get recognized. Sound of Strength focused a little more on the political side with anti-establishment, anti-religion, and anti-police related songs. Their musical talent had greatly improved as well by the time Sound of Strength came out. Their most recent album which was released in late 2007 titled Fight for Your Mind is probably their best work yet. They somehow managed to create an even more aggressive and political sound than Sound of Strength. They have proved that they are definitely here to stay and are not going anywhere soon.

They are currently signed with SOS Records and making a very big name for themselves. Resilience are far from amateurs in the punk rock scene so keep an eye out for these guys in the future and never give in!



Resilience from Delft:
Resilience was formed by guitarist Brûn van der Horst, who had written some metal demo songs and wanted to perform music like this live.

A friend of Brûn, named Peter Lincklaen Arriens, used to be a bassist in a punk-rock orientated band called Joey and the Peters (J2P) and the drummer in a small alternative project with Brûn. He was asked to join the band to be the drummer.

Former Organic Matter vocalist Ruben Verhoeff joined the band at that same time and with that the band started to take form.

After quite a search for a second guitarist, a friend of Peter and Brûn introduced them to Arnold Meijer, who now is the second guitarist in Resilience since November 2009. 

After writing songs for a while and looking for the last member,namely a bassist, they were introduced to Thomas Pathuis. He met Ruben at a concert a long time ago and they kept contact ever since. Originally a guitarist, but started to play bass for Resilience, officially joining the band on 16 October 2011.

Resilience released their demo on that same Sunday, the 16th October 2011.

Current line-up:
Ruben - Vocalist
Brûn - Guitarist, Backing vocalist
Arnold - Guitarist
Thomas - Bassist
Peter - Drummer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Resilience">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.