Resolution15 is a New York City based post-thrash metal band. The uniqueness of this band lies not only in their complex, multi-layered compositions unrivaled in depth and brutality, but in their unified message of discontent with the status quo and their desire to act as agents of positive change. In addition, Resolution15 further defies and transcends the expectations of modern metal by the complete omission of the standard bearer and hallmark of the genre: the electric guitar. Instead, Resolution15 uses 7-string electric violin as the primary instrument for executing their bone-crushing, ear splitting, head banging riffs. To quote Metal Edge: "...violins have been attached to folk metal and other oblong versions of what you might consider to be metal, but what was being belted out onstage was nowhere near folk, chamber music or anything along those lines. This [Resolution15] is thrash. This is loud. This is a kick in the ******* face." Formed in 2007 with the lineup of New School University schoolmates Earl Maneein and Matt Szemela on electric violin, Kenny Grohowski on drums, John Paul Norpoth on bass, and Nick Serr supplying vocals, Resolution15 released their self-titled debut to rave reviews (being featured on the front page of CD Baby for an entire month and in articles in numerous metal blogs) and quickly became a fixture in the New York metal scene. In January of 2008, both Norpoth and Szemela left the band to pursue other musical interests, and Resolution15 continued to move forward as a quartet, recruiting long time friend (and also schoolmate) Jim Robertson on bass, whose varied influences would help to push the band in previously unexplored directions. In February of 2009, Resolution15 began to collaborate with Corey Unger of the seminal New England metalcore band Blood Has Been Shed, with Unger functioning in a producing and advisory role. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Resolution15">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.