There are four bands with the name Resonator

1)
Resonator has untied the anchor and thrown it overboard! Letting this vessel travel and sway on wind and wave...Rock and Roll un-smothered by the smoke of burning cash and hipster trash with feedback as bright as flames. We are Trevor Cole (bass), Larry Dolan (guitar) and Mikey Lemieux (drums). Our music is kinship and collaborative expression. We strive to convey our understanding of the world around us in language that is our own, but understandable to anyone willing to listen. We are burning fields and North Country winters. 

We believe that music can break down the barriers that separate us from one another. Music is the oldest language in the world. We invite you to listen and encourage you to be heard. 

Our songs are developed through reworkings of our favorite improvisations. The moment is our writing tool. Our songs are translations of the original improv with some additional tweaks and structure. In a live setting these songs are subject to variations, expansions, and contractions in response to the energy and participation of the audience. We believe the live music experience is the most important medium for musical broadcast and response. It is a intimate human environment in a world that is increasingly devoid of human to human interaction. 

We live outside of Plattsburgh, NY. We hope you'll come visit sometime, we love it here. 

2)
Resonator are a symphonic death metal band from the Blue Mountains, Australia
Members include:
Lead Guitar - David Laverty
Vocals - Elias Aldred-Macbeth
Keyboards - Opie
Rhythm Guitar - Christopher Rosiak
Drums - Liam Young
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Resonator/74742723182

3)
RESONATOR is an alias for the duo of video game composers Kohta Takahashi and Kenji Ito.  Their works include the DoDonPachi Dai-Fukkatsu Arrange Soundtrack, and the soundtrack for 5pb./Tachyon's Xbox 360 shoot-em-up Bullet Soul.

4.) Resonator is a Future Jazz / Drum`n`Bass Trio from the UK! Members are Doug Howard, Martin Warnes and Stella Page. The records are released on NINEBARecords in the 90`s! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Resonator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.