1) Resurrection split up in 1996 and reformed by 2005. Before they split up, there was plans for an album called "Forever Embalmed" that would include four live tracks, both demos prior to the debut and the tracks from the demo released after the debut album.

2) Resurrection (Belgium, September 2008) is the new name of the former band "Outside" which was founded in may 2004. Their music varies from metalcore to hardcore. Their influences mainly consist of Parkway Drive, Throwdown, Unearth, Killswitch Engage, Shai Hulud and others... They recorded their first album 'Foundation' and are currently writing new songs.

http://www.myspace.com/resurrectionmetalcore

3/A GLASWEGIAN tribute to the Stone Roses band vow to put on a show worthy of “timeless” music.

Resurrection: A Tribute to the Stone Roses was formed in 2001 after previously being part of The Complete Stone Roses and have continued to make music their passionate hobby while holding down jobs ranging from cleaning to engineering.

Glasgow-born Ricky Toner, who leads on vocals with the band, said their upcoming gig in the city was offering quality. Nothing pains him more than poor imitation, he said.

The 44-year-old said: “If you’re going to be a tribute band, you have to be at least as good as the band you’re imitating.

“I saw the Stone Roses back in 1990 and I’ve been a die-hard fan ever since. It still means as much to me as it did when I was 18.

“For me, it was always about the music - it was perfect pop. The first album will remain timeless. And to see a band murdering those songs is heartbreaking.

“Let people hear this is how good it could be.”

The Stone Roses, formed in Manchester in 1983, went through a few changes over the years but was consistently led by Ian Brown, who has seen Resurrection perform.

The tribute band - also consisting of Jerry Levy, Matt Checkley and Mark Harper - have performed across the UK and Ireland and will be in The Record Factory (formerly Faktory) on April 25. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Resurrection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.