There are multiple artists with this name:


1)  Resurrected is a brutal death metal Band from Germany. They formed in 1993  by Carsten Scholz (Vocals), Michael Scholz (Drums) and Thomas Granzow (Guitar). Then they started to release demos, one in 1994 called "Darkside of Reality", another in 1995 entitled "Sinner of an Unable God" and finally a demo tape in 1996 called "The lament configuration".

This made the band hook up with Underground Promotion which took them to their 7" EP entitled "Bloodline" which the band composed heavy and alternating riffs into their brutal form of musical direction. This was also the first time the band had a bassist (Marc Deutsch) to complete the line-up. However, this didn't go on to long and the band were back to creating demos.

In their Rising of The Dead promo in 1997 got some interest from alot of record labels which clinched the deal with German Label Eaststar Records, for a duration of three full length records. Their first fast-alternating, heavy riffing and blast drumming came in 1998 with "Raping Whorres" which had outstanding reviews and began a cult following for this band in Europe. However, the three album record deal came to the end quickly as the german label fell into admission. This brought quickly to attention of  Perverted Taste Records, who released two of the followups one in 1999 "Faireless To The Flesh" and "Butchered In Excrement" in 2001.

This then released a split with masters Fleshgrind in 2002, later releasing their new songs into a full-length called "Blood Spilled" in 2003 which featured their best performances and an unmistakable cover of Napalm Death's Mass Appeal Madness what combined the grind legends riffing with the hard-blasting of their forefront perfectly.

The band then lead into Morbid Records hands into a two full length deal at the end of 2004, giving them the chance to release their fifth full-length album of their career entitled "Endless Sea of Loss" released in 2006. The band are also playing at the NRW Deathfest later in 2008 and after, are going into the studios once more to write and produce their sixth album.

2)  Resurrected is a thrash metal band from Philippines  (Manila). They formed in 1993 by Fin Santos (Vocals/Guitar also in Intoxication of Violence), Charlie Magne (Bass) and Jon (Guitar). They were later joined by drummer Resty. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Resurrected">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.