There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Retaliator was a "anti-PC" Oi! band from UK. 
Formed in 1996 & split up 2008.
They've released a number of albums.

Retaliator formed August bank holiday 1996 and disbanded Xmas 2008. 
Over these 12 years we released a number of albums, singles and compilation releases (which can be found on the Discography page) and played gigs in 9 European countries.

This band always remained non-political despite lies and rumours circulated by dull minded anonymous internet warriors. The band members were five individuals each with their own views. 
The only thing we all agreed on is a hatred for Political Correctness. If you don't like what we sing about, don't buy the records. It's that simple. 
We were never interested in toning down our image or lyrics to play the big stage or win over new fans. NO COMPROMISE. 

Retaliator had many line-up changes over the years. The final line-up was:

Ian - Vocals 
Pete -  Bass 
Ciaran - Lead Guitar
Steve - Rhythm Guitar
Mark - Drums 

So what are we doing now? 

IAN is helping out Oi band LOYALTY with various things. 
PETE 's new recording project with INFA RIOT 's Barry Damery has been released and is entitled BALEFIRE - On The Road To Redemption. 
CIARAN has joined T.M.F. as Bass player "Hammered Mother Fucker". 
STEVE & CIARAN have formed a new band called THE LONDON DIEHARDS with Tel and Cherry from the EAST END BADOES. 
MARK is still busy drumming for CONDEMNED 84. 

29th January 2011, the classic line-up of 2001 (that recorded Patriotic Alcoholics) got back together to see if they could remember anything. Stay tuned....
 They have just released a new album Lionhearted, true to all they stand for.


2) Retaliator is a project metal band of Celtic Warrior's vocalist Billy and Nigel (Fortress, No Remorse etc.).
They've relesed albums Bring Forth The War and I stand alone.

3) A thrash/death metal band from Sheffield, England. In 2009, they released 'Human Disease', with the following track listing;

1 - The Unworldly Terror
2 - Human Disease
3 - Overpowered, Overthrown
4 - Retaliator
5 - Kill Your Boss
6 - Attempted Life
7 - Glare of the Envious <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Retaliator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.