A brief history of Retribution Denied:

Early 1991- James Gall (drums), Bradley Noble(learning bass), Steve Dixon(vocals) and Andre van Rensberg (guitar) got together to jam in Johannesburg, South Africa in Germiston. We named ourselves Yuppie Terrorist Pigeon Feederz, and after 3 months, we recorded a demo called “Pigeonus Brutalitus”. A few months later Paul, who actually knew how to play properly, joined as lead guitarist.

1992- We got interest from Inhouse Records, but they thought the name was a bit stupid, and we agreed, so we changed our name to Retribution Denied and signed with them.
Wrote some new stuff and re-worked old stuff, and recorded a demo called “The Meek Shall Inherit…….”

1993- NAPALM DEATH were touring South Africa!! With us as support act for 2 gigs! Our big break! Unfortunately, the pressure was too much for Paul and he started missing band practices, so he had to go (Paul then founded co-Sacrifist), which left us with only one guitarist 3 months before the biggest gig of our lives!
In came Trevor , took it all in his stride, and played his first gig in front of 1500 people!

Shortly after, we recorded 2 songs for the “DEATH OF AFRICA” compilation CD.

The CD was a big success, we gigged heavily (but saw no money). Went back into the studio a few months and recorded our follow up, but Phil (Nel kka Ankha Nel) had a tantrum and wiped the lot, along with some killer stuff by Abhorrence.
Trev lost interest, replaced by a school friend of Steve’s called Lee.

1994- We left Inhouse, as they were full of shit. Played some massive gigs at the old Doors venue in Marshall Street, but finance was not easy to raise for our album.

After a riotous trip to Durban, where we almost burnt the venue down with our on-stage fire breather, our van overturned on the highway. Andre left the band after to concentrate on his marriage, and was replaced by Greg.

1995- Things went sour with James so Ray (R.I.P.) joined on drums (he’d blown us away with his double bass when he played “Circus of Stupidity” with us during a sound check at The Doors a few months before)
Did a few gigs (getting paid!!), got some cash and went into B# Studios to record 2 songs which were released as the demo “In the Beginning There Was…………”

I still rate this as one of the best RD releases!
One song also featured on the SA metal compilation CD “13”.
Some new songs were written by Lee and Brad, so a change of direction, as before Andre had written most of the music, and James had arranged it.
The new stuff moved away from Bolt Thrower/Morbid Angel/Napalm Death towards Entombed, My Dying Bride, At The Gates and (early) Anathema. 

1996- We did some more gigs to get the cash for our album, but Greg and Ray were not happy in the band, so Greg left first, then Ray left 3 weeks before we had B# booked!
JP let us postpone for 3 months, and we called in Steve’s best mate Andrew, who was playing in Deviate and Rabbi Adolf and Outrage. Did more gigs.

Early 1997- went into B# and 7 tracks went down, but by this time Lee and Steve had decided to relocate to the UK after the recording (crowds of 50 were an anti-climax after regularly headlining in front of 500 to1000+ just three years before) and Brad had decided to stay in SA with his son, so no-one wanted to release an album with no band to plug it.
So after 6 years of blood, sweat and tears (and beers!!) Retribution Denied quietly died………………….

Brad then went on to play guitar in Decay Into Light.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Retribution+Denied">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.