There are 5 artists called "Reverb."

1. Formed in Cheltenham in 1993, the trio consisting of Ant Walker (guitar/vocals), Dave Battersby (bass), and Ben Godding (drums) were championed by legendary Echo and The Bunnymen guitarist Will Sergeant, who produced and even played on some of the band’s recordings. Reverb’s explosive blend of moody yet melodic guitar pop was an intoxicating mix of classic Bowie, The Undertones, Love, The Seeds, The Chills, Neu!, Adorable, and, last but not least, The Bunnymen. Sadly, the group was unable to penetrate the mainstream despite garnering airplay from famed BBC DJs John Peel and Steve Lamacq and having several singles reach the Top-15 of the UK indie chart (“Melting Into You” peaked at #5). A cult favorite on the London live circuit, Reverb bowed out on a high note in 1997, their last gig being an electrifying performance at the CMJ Festival in New York City. Walker and Battersby would go on to form acclaimed instrumental space rock group The Land of Nod.

2. Reverb, four teenagers coming from the Derry Hill and Calne area of North Wiltshire have quickly developed a popular reputation throughout the last year in particular with both new and old fans. 
They really began to catch the eye after their performances in the Chippenham and Wiltshire Battle of the Bands. Entering as outsiders and many years below the restrictions they managed to pass through every round in 1st place on all occassions and eventually finish up 2nd in the final beating many older and more experienced bands than themselves. 
As a result of this gig they were offered the opportunity to play at the Fizz Bar for the Fizzfest including 6 talented local bands. Again their success continued with a convincing win landing them a spot at The Big Gig with The Zig Zag Band a great occasion and their biggest gig at that point. 
Reverb entered the studio at the end of 2005 to record 5 of their tracks two of which can be heard on this website. Many copies were sold and are still being distributed at their gigs. 
Reverb have much more recently played at the North Wiltshire Festival their largest gig to date playing on the same stage as Bucks Fizz (Great!) And they just weeks ago played at the Fizz Bar for a third time and won themselves a place in the finals hoping to continue their success. 
Reverb hope to continue in the same vain as they have up until now and hope to go on to greater things as they develop there music more and more. 

www.myspace.com/reverbband

3. Reverb is a belgian alternative rockband founded in 2007. And still rocking!
   
 www.myspace.com/grungereverb

4. Reverb is a drum'n'bass one man project based in Czech republic. It was founded during summer 1997. In the spring of 2000 he became a member of the dj/music & graffiti crew dvoika.troika. In 2001, he debuted with his track Direct Step on label Obushek.
http://reverb.dvoikatroika.cz

5. Reverb is/was a demoscene musician, active at least in the early 1990s.  His main group affiliation was Megawatts, who were possibly best known for U4ia's presence within the group.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reverb">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.