Strengthened by Chaos. Encouraged by the Beast. Powered by Will.

"And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not to give him glory." (Rev. 16:9)

Revelation's Hammer rose from the ashes of disbelief during the 7th year of the 3rd millennium in the village Sætre in Eastern Norway. It all began as various musical ideas by the Accuser, which later evolved into self dictated propaganda of a greater purpose.

The diabolical one man band began to work with drummer Bergh during the following year, but had to let him go due to a series of disagreements. Later on, Myrvoll from NIDINGR impressed with his intensive way of handling the battery and became recruited as the band's session and future live drummer.

The first chapter out of the fire began its first recording session a wintry night the 1st month of 2010, and Exilis from TROLL was brought in to contribute on keys. Several setbacks throughout the year made the completion of the album quite overdue, at the same time as it really just made the band even more determined to crawl up from the abyss to disseminate the truth upon Earth.

The Accuser contacted Børge Finstad at infamous Toproom Studio (MAYHEM, ULVER, ARCTURUS) to ask him if he wanted to mix the album. He accepted, while legendary Peter In de Betou (WATAIN, DARK FUNERAL, DIMMU BORGIR) agreed to take care of the final mastering process. The actuality that Accuser does not support any form of compromises, did that he chose his collaborators with careful deliberation.

Until about two years later, Revelation's Hammer kept their fiery propaganda close to the underground. All of a sudden, the Accuser relocated to the capitol Oslo, and negotiated a worldwide recording deal for their self titled first chapter with the Italian Dark Metal label My Kingdom Music.

Approximately one month before its release date, the band launched a video trailer through selected channels based on the album's cover art. The artwork for the album was put together by the Portuguese artist Ricardo Fernandes and stands out as a conspicuous collage built upon a careful selection of (anti)religious paintings. The long awaited full-length album got released June 3rd 2013 and is finally available for order all over the world. Blasphemy, fire, rebellion.. This is just the beginning...

"So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns." (Rev. 17:3) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Revelation%27s+Hammer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.