Finalists on MobileAct Unsigned the Channel 4 Talent show.

There are ten things and ten things exactly that you need to know about Revenue.

1. Revenue are five years old! Or rather, they formed in 2002 in Peterborough.

2. Revenue are Adam Bridges, Jonny Richman, 'The Sav', James 'Animal' Hearn, Simon 'Pato' Paterson.

3. The band got together after Sav placed an advert in the NME looking for a singer for a band. Fortunately a young man called Adam was reading, answered and fitted the bill.

4. As well as proving themselves stars on mobileAct unsigned, Revenue were also in the finals of the 2007 Camden Crawl 'Indie Idle' awards.

5. Revenue also made the Top Three in the finals of the 2007 Diesel:U:Music competition.

6. Revenue are influenced by the legendary sounds of The Clash, The Jam and The Specials. Their favourite modern bands include The Libertines and The View.

7. They have been compared with offbeat rock heroes XTC and Talking Heads.

8. Revenue claim that they are making music for reasons other than "to lose their virginity and cure their acne problems". While they seem fairly fresh-faced to us, we're not going to speculate on the other issue.

9. Revenue describe their live shows as "shambolic, eventful and a bit messy". Sounds good to us.

10. Revenue have already recorded ten tracks - including 'Changes', 'Funk U Out' and 'Reaching Out', but have over 50 more songs written and ready to record.

2. Revenue smyger sig mellem fængende melankolske melodier og skæve forunderlige beats. Der er både plads til det kantede og det kendte. Revenue trækker på det bløde intime og det hårdtslående spændingsfelt. Omdrejningspunktet er singer/ songwriter Henrik Jørgensen der med Revenue har fundet plads til hans længselsfulde personlige udtryk. Med sig har han nogle af fyns bedste rockmusikere, der hver især har en lang musisk karriere bag sig. På el-guitar: Kaare Svane der også medvirker i flg. Bands/orkestre: Berl de Berl, Holidays, OBT og De Røde Heste. På bas: Jon Balslev der også er med eller har været i flg. Bands/orkestre: Instant Drum, The Party Sound Orchestra o.m.a. På trommer: René Larsen der har eller medvirker i flg. Bands/orkestrer: Phobia/ Beat Boys/ Still B, K/ Hits`N`Green/ Tom Donovan Band, Nowheremen o.m.a. På sang og aku-guitar: Henrik Jørgensen som også medvirker eller har været i flg.bands/orkestrer: State Of Friends, Jazztrioen Threesome, BitterSweetBoathouse, Culturel Clashes, Nada o.m.a.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Revenue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.