There are about three bands with the name "Rex Mundi." Or King of the World, translated in Latin. 

1. Dj/Producer Rex Mundi 
2. French Black Metal act (Technically spelled Rêx Mündi)
3. Thrash/Progressive band from Greece

1. Dj Rex Mundi

Boy Hagemann started producing music on his computer while his friends practiced in local rock bands. He was fascinated about the sounds that could be created using just a computer, He sometimes skipped college to have fun with his music. After some time a friend noticed what Boy had achieved thus far. He introduced him to a local radio dj who had a dance show. From here on, Boy developed his sound more and more. Boy Hagemann met Robin "Jaydee" Albers on one of the parties that was held by the radio show.
Robin Albers spotted the talent in Boy and offered him a record deal. Meanwhile Boy kept shaping his sounds to the limits. Not much later Robin asked him to remix his classic Plastic Dreams for Positiva.
The early releases on Jaydees First Impression were canned by Dj's like Armin van Buuren in his early episodes of In State of Trance and compilations like Sensation and Massive. He also made a remix for Carl Cox's 23rd Century.
Next to Robin Albers joined Johan Groenewegen of Cyber records for a new project. This project was to fuel the gigs of one of the kings of trance Dj Tiesto by making music for his compilations In Search of the Sunrise. Split Second was born with these three. This project was stunning with the knowledge of Johan Cyber.
New sources of music and spins of dj's was motivating to start new creations from his mind. Whispering on Baroque made it to the playlist of Paul Oakenfold, Eddie Halliwell on BBC radio1 and Paul van Dyk. Music for the dance floor like Perspective gave his success a new dimension. Rex Mundi was back on the turntables by Dj's of Carl Cox, Marco V, Nick Warren, Armin van Buuren and Markus Schulz.
His style of producing can be described as knowing the right vibe for the dance floor. With grumbling hover basses and technological twists, Boy manages to keep you moving like no other.
Boy is currently working on various remix projects and music for his aliases Rex Mundi and Dymos. You may want to keep an eye on Boy and his future dance floor productions!

2. French Black Metal act
Update via the Record Label: Debemur Morti Productions.  The Black Metal RM is not spelled like this.  The official spelling is Rêx Mündi. If you have it spelled like this group, please update your files to accommodate the correct spelling of the band.

The French Black Metal act deals with intellectual and religious aspects, with traditional Arabic chants incorporated within the music.  They have one demo released "IHVH" and are working on a studio version of that and a follow-up album.  There is some guess as to if the band is actually from France, despite what metal archives says, because some record labels have recieved the demo from England, the U.S., and Denmark.  So the location is technically unknown, and the band will not comment on their actual location.

3. Thrash/Progressive band from Greece

Rex Mundi is a progressive metal band from Greece, formed in 2002. Mixing aggressive elements along with numerous influences, the result is “Perception in design”, the band’s first full length album after 2007’s demo cd “Balance between madness and hope” which received a really positive feedback from media and fans. Despite countless personnel changes, the band has maintained a stable line up for the last couple of years and has shared the stage with bands such as: Cynic, Atheist, Rotting Christ, Septicflesh, Sadist, Wastefall touring widely all over Greece. Their first album "Perception in Design" was released on Oct. 12 2010 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rex+Mundi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.