Reynols is a trio of Argentinean nutters led by Down's Syndrome-afflicted drummer/vocalist Miguel Tomasin (their name was chosen randomly by a chihuahua walking on a TV remote control unit: Burt Reynolds appeared on the screen - one wonders what became of that penultimate
"d"..), whose releases include a "dematerialized CD" (i.e. an empty box), a
    recording of 10,000 chickens in a battery farm, and an album of treated tape
    hiss for Bernhard Günter's trente oiseaux label. Once nearly arrested in
    Buenos Aires (on the grounds that they might reflect a negative image of
    Argentina - maybe Tomasin's next move could be to change his name to Eva
    Peron) for plugging their axes into pumpkins and not playing in public, the
    trio caught the attention of the new music media with "Pauline Oliveros in
    the Arms of Reynols", which brought them an invitation to play a seven-hour
    Lincoln Center concert with Pauline herself. All of this is well-known, but
    what about the music?
    "Bolas Tristes" is a collection of short (except for "Permuto Hojaldre"
    which clocks in at 13'25") nihilistic sound blasts recorded between 1994 and
    1996 and originally released on cassette in England by Matching Head. Here
    it's "remastered" (??) and housed in a lurid fluorescent orange jewel box
    (the CD itself seems to have been spray-painted in the same orange and won't
    play on half the machines I've tried it on, which is presumably deliberate).
    The duff sound quality and uncompromisingly bleak feel of these pieces
    strikes a chord with anyone brought up on No Wave and New Wave; "Viento que
    sopla pajaros" sounds like early Glenn Branca on downers, and "Eco-tom" and
    "Colosos del Aroma" wouldn't be out of place on a Swans bootleg. The
    "Barbatrulos" album, recorded in 1997 and 1998, sounds remarkably similar:
    not since Danny and the Dressmakers' "Don't Make Another Bass Guitar Mr.
    Rickenbacker" has lousy drumming sounded so good. (There are no track titles,
    we're told, because "they" (the band, or the titles?) "went to buy osobuco
    [sic] to feed our chihuahua dog."..) "Minecxio", most of which dates from
    last year, throws together answering machine messages, TV channel signature
    tunes and Tomasin's banshee wailing (recorded in a steel mill from the sound
    of it) over a backdrop of wailing guitars and effects-loaded drumming. It's
    curiously compelling stuff, this strange mixture of early Red Crayola,
    Birthday Party and Jesus and Mary Chain (at 16rpm), and I'm half-tempted to
    learn Spanish just to be able to figure out what Tomasin is on about (though
    I'm not sure it would help much).
    Scrolling down the pages of the Betley Welcomes Careful Drivers website in
    search of information about their recent Reynols release ("- - - -"), I
    realize there must be hundreds, maybe thousands, of people hidden away in
    garages all over the world making this kind of noise, or something like it.
    Whether Reynols' undoubted knack for self-publicity makes their musical
    output more worthy of attention is debatable, but in today's Britney shitney
    world it's rather comforting to know these guys are out there. And out there
    they certainly are. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Reynols">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.