Rezistor was born in Constanta, Romania, in November 2008, after the boys decided to quit their former bands, in order to create more aggressive music. After years of playing in various bands, it was time to go back to basics and simply enjoy writing and playing music, rather than getting caught in technicalities and all sorts of stuff that drive the musician away from the real purpose of being in a band: enjoying music.

Rezistor plays thrash "seasoned" metal; the songs are simple and stripped of all the unnecessary "gimmicks" in order to get back to the core of metal music: the perfect rhythms for headbanging. As metal fans themselves, the boys know that most people attending a gig are more interested in how tight a song sounds, or how much groove a guitar riff has, rather than senseless displays of virtuousness - and that's exactly what Rezistor is set to deliver: raw, but effective tunes for the mosh pit.

Rezistor's current line up is: Eugen - vocals, Alex - guitar, Vali - bass, Cristi - drums.

Due to distance (Cristi moved to a different city, Eugen is a medic onboard a ship) and personal lifes (family, kids, and such) the band members like to take their time in doing things.

Current activity: After putting together a number of songs, Rezistor started in May 2010 the recording of the debut album. "Beware the Silent" is Rezistor's response to the society we live in: one governed by corrupted laws that chain the individual and alienate him from the fundamental human values. Its lifeforce is feeding on the dark energy boiling deep down inside each individual forced to obey unjust rules and punished for not blindly conforming to a shallow and artificial grey society. The album features 8 songs: 7 with English lyrics and one in Romanian, with powerful and introspective lyrics. The cover artwork was created by Costin Chioreanu (Twilight13Media) and it represents a very personal and unique representation of the album's lyrical content and atmosphere. "Beware the Silent" is selfproduced, with a set intention of obtaining a raw old school sound, as close as possible to an actual live rehearsal performance, without losing sound clarity: no modern processing, no fillers, no artificial tricks to wow the listener while masking the lack of inspiration and musical content, just pure unfiltered metal riffing and throat shouting. The band doesn't care about musical trends and prefers to remain loyal to the roots of old school aggressive metal, and that is the foundation "Beware the Silent" was built upon.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ReZistoR">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.