Formed in Maryland in 1994 by singer/guitarist Pete Swindler, the heavy rock band REZIN is currently composed of Swindler, Matt Collazo on drums, Andy Hughes on guitar, and Daniel “Pogs” Pegnato on bass. As suggested by the name, REZIN draws inspiration from Black Sabbath and their stoner rock offspring, but the REZIN sound doesn’t stop there. Other influences include the gonzo songwriting of The Melvins, the big solos and throat shredding vocals of Sound Garden, and the heavy jams of Clutch.

After unleashing their sound on the world with the EPs Dumbo and Least, REZIN released their first full length, Stanley in 1996. The band followed Stanley with Summer of the Braindead Everyone (1999), Everything Happens (2004), and Aim Lower (2006), and Never Better (2010) all produced with the legendary Frank “The Punisher” Marchand. Each release showcases REZIN’s unique and often oblique approach to songwriting structure, Pete’s plaintiff yowl and heartrending lyrics, Andy’s mad scientist pedal board textures, Matt’s crushing yet nimble drum parts, and the late Jon Blank’s fuzzed-out low end. Pogs has melded seamlessly into the band’s sound and appears on the forthcoming Stop Laughing and Come Home due out later in 2017 on CD, digital download, and vinyl.

Though recently absent from the stage, REZIN has played countless shows in the mid-Atlantic region and beyond, sharing the stage with national touring acts The Hidden Hand, Fu Manchu, King’s X, Quiet Riot, CKY, Static X, Seether, and Seemless, Mighty Thor; and such local favorites as Jimmie’s Chicken Shack, Colouring Lesson, Mary Prankster, and Live Alien Broadcast. REZIN has also appeared on two editions of the HFStival and the inaugural South Park Festival, along with gigs in legendary venues like The 9:30 Club and CBGB’s. Though they haven’t been gigging lately, the band has not been dormant. As much as it is a well-oiled tune machine, REZIN is a group of friends and an extended community. This collective has still been gathering weekly in an undisclosed basement location to keep the rust off the old music, continually write new music, and revel in the joyful togetherness that results. In 2017, the lads are emerging once again to retake the stage and rock all comers to bits. You are cordially invited to be a part of it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rezin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.