There are 2 artists with this name:
1. An Electronic producer from Toronto, currently signed to Monstercat.
2. An a cappella group from Oregon.

1.  Nick ‘Rezonate’ Rennie began producing music in late 2010, after finding his true passion in EDM.  With under a year of experience, an early break came when he won Monstercat’s VIP contest which resulted in his first release “Pump It”.  He followed this up with the release of his songs Lights, Revolt, The Phoenix, Ash, Lonely, and more on subsequent Monstercat albums.  Now, Rezonate is looking to change things up in the Electronic scene, and is always looking for a unique sound.  Currently, Rez is studying Digital Audio Arts in University and is exploring every corner of music.  Follow him along, as he continues to pursue his dream.  Nick would like to thank the Monstercat family and his fans for the opportunities they have given him, and the incredible support they provide in to help young artists such as himself to follow their dreams.

Be sure to check out his latest work, the "Prelude EP"!  Check out a review of the EP from HeadyTunes.co:
"Hailing from Southern Ontario, Canada’s Nick Rennie, who goes by the musical moniker of Rezonate, has delivered a new EP on Monstercat that is not to be overlooked under any circumstances. Spanning five tracks, Rennie crafts a chilling compilation, appropriately described by an enveloping and gorgeous blend of funk, heartfelt melodies, spirited vocals, anthemic breakdowns, and an overall musical finesse. Though it caters to those with a predilection for nu-disco or indie dance styled productions, ‘Prelude’ offers a journey through intricately detailed electronic music, rich with emotion and passion."

2. As the premiere a cappella group from Eugene, Oregon,  the gentlemen of Rezonate sing R&B, Gospel, Pop, Soul, Jazz, Funk, and even some Hard Rock, both arranging covers and writing original songs. The members met each other through the Oregon Children's Choir, and started singing together as Rezonate sometime around December 2004. Since then, they have appeared at many venues, including art and air festivals, and many local high schools. 
At the Harmony Sweepstakes National Finals in May of 2009, Rezonate won both Third Place and the coveted Best Original Arrangement awards.  Their unique take on a cappella stylings has been garnering much attention.  With thick, lush, true six and seven part harmonies and a difficulty level second to none, Rezonate can evoke the smooth sounds of the Four Freshman, the rockin' edge of Bon Jovi, or the pop excitement of acts like Maroon 5 and Kelly Clarkson.
From large corporate events to small intimate gatherings, Rezonate can create a program that will make your event the one that is remembered for years to come, and become the yardstick by which future events are measured.  For events in the Willamette Valley, or as far as Seattle or Reno, or anywhere in the world, please contact Rezonate to design a program that is entertaining and motivating.  
Rezonate also believes very strongly in the necessity of music in all aspects of education, as music is the only discipline in which reside all other areas of education.  Music integrates the three Rs; Reading, 'Riting, and 'Rhythm-etic, as well as Physics, Physical Education, and Social and Psychological Sciences.  Music allows both sides of the brain to work concurrently and in cooperation, creating a synergy of instinct and intellect that is not as readily accessible in any other educational activity.  Rezonate is available to work with school music programs, as performers and as music educators and clinicians.  Teachers, please contact us!   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rezonate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.