Singer. Songwriter. Star. Blessed at a very young age with talent and creativity, Rhea has been diligent on her journey to make it as a world famous recording artist and songwriter.

Her name, Rhea, comes from Greek origin meaning "to flow", and she embodies this with seamless vocals and enduring creativity.

Born in Guyana, with her parents and two brothers she relocated to Toronto, Canada in search of a more fulfilling life. Rhea began her singing career at age twelve, entering and winning dozens of Canadian talent shows and contests, seemingly overnight. She trained classically and later on decided to pursue contemporary music. Rhea attended the prestigious Berklee College of Music in Boston where she graduated at the top of her class with a Bachelor of Music Degree focusing on performance, songwriting and music business. She then moved to New York City.

Rhea has worked with Grammy award winning, Grammy nominated and platinum 
producers and writers such as Deric "D-DOT" Angelettie, Trackmasters, Stevie J, Ryan Leslie, Troy Oliver. Harold Lilly, Jack Knight, Andre Diego and a host of others. Recently Rhea has appeared in videos like Black Rob's ''Ready" and The Notorious B.I.G' s "Nasty". 

Rhea has written and performed on albums by artists such as Black Rob, 8 Ball & MJG, Keith Sweat, Lady May, Noah, The Mad Rapper and The Barbie Hit Mix. You can also hear her writing and vocal ability on upcoming artists project's like G-Unit, Babs, Ness, 
D-DOT, Red Café and Aasim.

 
Rhea's voice can be heard on television and radio commercials promoting products such as Diet Pepsi, Fresca, Pantene, Yoplait, Lenscrafters, Elexa, Tanqueray TJ Maxx and Fanta. She has made appearances at the Emerging Artists in Talent and Music Conference in Las Vegas, the Boston Jazz Festival, the Village Underground NYC and singing the Canadian and American National Anthem for the Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park, the Boston Celtics at the Fleet Center and the Philadelphia 76ers. 

Rhea's mantra's are "Never Stop Dreaming Big" and "Hold on to your dreams and Fight for them against all odds". She regards her talents as gifts and blessings from God and it is her dream to one day share these precious jewels with the world.

Below is a list of all leaked songs:

Ashy Larry - No Hair (feat. Rhea)
Black Rob - When You Come Home (feat. Rhea)
Black Rob - Y'All Know (feat. Biggie & Rhea)
Rhea - Birthday Suite (Remix)
Rhea - 21 Answers (Reply to To 50 Cent's "21 Questions")
Rhea - Call Me Crazy
Rhea - Come And Get It
Rhea - Damn Right (feat. Atiba)
Rhea - Don't Let Go
Rhea - For The Love Of The Money
Rhea - Fresh 'N' Sexy
Rhea - Fucked Up
Rhea - Games Of Love
Rhea - Get Me Home
Rhea - Higher
Rhea - I'm Not A Stripper (Reply to T-Pain's "In Love With A Stripper")
Rhea - If You Wanna Dance With Me
Rhea - It's Yours
Rhea - Kinky
Rhea - Know Tha Deal (feat. Darryl Riley & Black J)
Rhea - Lost Without You
Rhea - Love Me For Me
Rhea - My Motorcycle
Rhea - Oh Boy
Rhea - Rather Be With You
Rhea - Say That You Love Me (feat. Atiba)
Rhea - Shock Me (feat. Eric Sanicola)
Rhea - Should I
Rhea - Someone Else
Rhea - Tell Me Again (feat. K. Lomax)
Rhea - Wash My Body
Rhea - Why Must U Be
Rhea - Wait
Rhea - You Said

And the list goes on with snippets, clips and remixes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rhea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.