There seem to be six artists with this name:

1. Atmospheric sludge/post-metal from Montreal, Québec, Canada

Bandcamp

2. Rhino is a Spanish sludge doom band formed in Bilbao, 2004. Now called Horn Of The Rhino.

With big experience on their backs and with influences of the most bestial rock, the sickest doom and the heaviest metal, born in Bilbao, Rhino, a band that delivers brutal and monolithic songs with blasting guitars, thundering apocalyptic drums and aggressive vocals. Plus the attitude of their members and the obscurity of their songwriting, Rhino is shown as one of the most punishing, arrogant and merciless bands of their country. Formed in December of 2004 by Javier Gálvez, guitars and vocals, (Burial, From The Cross, Left Hand Riders) and Julen Gil, drums (Subliminal, Positiva) the band released in January of 2006 their demo “ Name the horn bearer” with Miguel Moral on bass and start to gain recognition as a brutal live act. At the beginning of 2007 and after a year of hard work on the stage along bands like Moho, Shisha Pangma, Bort, Moksha or Warchetype, Sergio Robles replaced M. Moral on bass just before the band released in april the critically acclaimed debut album Breed The Chosen One (OdioSonoro/7th Gate Records), produced by Rubén ZeaMays, and get great reviews from the media such as Terrorizer (UK), Rock Hard (SP), Metal Maniacs (USA) or This Is Rock (SP). After playing in several summer festivals ( Portugal's Bracara Extreme Fest, Gernika's Agroskate…) and shows with bands like Gorefest, Monarch, Lords of Bukkake, Taint or Grey Daturas, Rhino gets signed to Arctic Music Group(USA) for the release, in summer 08, of their new album Dead Throne Monarch.

Current members:
* Javier Gálvez - Guitar & Vocals
* Sergio 'Rambo' Robles - Bass
* Julen Gil - Drums

3. Rhino is a Dutch hip-hop artist.

4. Rhino is an alias of the Finnish hardcore DJ Jnks. Rhino's music is mainly Drum'n Bass.

5. Rhino! is a hardcore/pop punk band from Tulsa, OK.

6. RHINO was a progressive rock band from nipaluna/Hobart, Australia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rhino">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.