Greensboro, NC (PRWEB) October 4, 2006 -- We have music artists siblings Ashlee and Jessica Simpson, Hilary and Haley Duff, Beyonce and Solange Knowles, but not yet have we seen nor has there been any successful talented brother and sister music artists since the days of Michael and Janet Jackson until now. Ricco Barrino, the brother of the renowned American Idol winner Fantasia is prepared to show the world the other half of the Barrino’s with his new hit single “Bubble Gum.” 

The song which is written by Ricco and produced by Grammy Nominated Music Producer Keith Mack marks the first single from Ricco. Bubble Gum is already climbing the charts as it hits the airwaves this month with countless radio requests and station lines ringing off the hook from listeners wanting to know who sings this finger snapping, toe tapping song and if it’s available in stores yet. Bubble Gum is just the beginning for this music veteran who is currently working on his first untitled album which is expected to drop early next year. He is collaborating with the best of the best in the music industry including his amiable and talented sister Fantasia. The album will be a one-of-a-kind combination of sounds and lyrics from Ricco that will keep it real for the men and smooth for the ladies. 

Although he is the sister of Fantasia, Ricco has already proven to be a true talented artist that can touch any audience whether it’s pumping the party up or winding the party down with his rhythmic, soulful and original style. He has begun to establish his own identity in the music world as the soulful lead singer and writer for his group Infinite. The group has been on the road as the background singers for Fantasia on international tours with many well- artists inluding Kanye West, Common, Keisha Cole and Patty Labelle. 

It’s been a long time coming for Ricco, but it’s been worth the wait for the North Carolina Native who has been crooning to the sounds of R&B, Pop, Country, Hip-Hop and Soul since the day he could speak. Ricco, who started his own band by the age of eleven, grew up surrounded by the influential sounds of Gospel & R&B in his home and community. But music was more than just mere entertainment for the Barrino’s, it was the roots of this one-of-a-kind family. Ricco’s father and his extended family members had their own successful bands during the Motown era, which has initiated a family legacy of talented and successful music artists from generation to generation including, KC & JoJo, Fantasia and now Ricco Barrino; so who knows what this talented family may bring us next. But until then, as the movie theatres will say, “sit back and enjoy the movie,” we say, “stand up and enjoy the music of the next king in line, Ricco Barrino.” 
For press inquiries including booking and interviews contact Linda Luna at LunaChicPR (310)774-1999 linda@lunachicpr.com www.lunachicpr.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ricco+Barrino">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.