"Richie is Brighton's Lee Scratch Perry!"

Rob Da Bank BBC Radio 1

"Phoe's music is bouncy dub at it's very best"

Huw Stephens BBC Radio 1

"Maybe not pop as we know it, but it should be""

Music Week magazine

"Roll on the album we say."

DJ Magazine


Richie Phoe is a south coast dub-lover who produces the kind of music that’s more Kingston Town than Brighton Pier.

Richie’s first forays into the world of music production began on his Amiga 500, back in the early ‘90s; by 1999 he’d progressed to an MPC 2000 and began making his own beats. As his style progressed he started collecting reggae vinyl and began DJing at reggae and hip-hop nights weekly in clubs and bars in Portsmouth.

In 2006, having relocated to Brighton, Richie sent out his first 5 track demo not expecting too much but received instantaneous plays across Radio One’s specialist shows and caught the ear of numerous record labels, including Rob Da Banks’ Sunday Best Recordings. Richie was personally commissioned by Rob to remix Max Sedgley’s ‘Celebrity’, a Jon Kennedy remix for Grand Central soon followed, and yet more support from Rob Da Bank would come, as ‘Sinful’ was included in his esteemed “Rob Da Bank And Chris Coco Listen Again” compilation.


In 2008 Richie released the critically lauded 'Eye on the Prize' Ep, featuring UK Reggae legend Tippa Irie, which gained BBC radio play from Rob Da Bank, Huw Stephens, Mark Lammar and an interview on Steve Lamacq's Radio 2 show. Two tracks from the EP were also used in MTV's 'Dirty Sanchez' show. Richie has just come back from performing at California's 'Reggae Rising' festival, and has already secured a spot for next years event.

Richie Phoe's debut full length, Echo Outernational (2012) stands out as a testament to modern reggae by combining digital, soulful and conscious styles into his signature productions. Playful and catchy, Echo Outernational reminds us of the past while cresting into the future. It features the acclaimed Eye on the Prize with Tippa Irie and the out of print 7-inch Bumpy's Lament. Echo Outernational also features Hate to Love with Earl 16 and First Class Mi Run with Dangerman. Spacious and full, take a deep breath and exhale slowly, Echo Outernational sets the protocol from the sound systems to the heads.

Various labels Richie has worked with include:

Sunday Best Recordings (Rob Da Bank BBC radio1)
Red Bud (Brooklyn NYC)
Balanced (Canada)
Reggae Roast (London)
MTV Europe
Sony Playstation
Grand Central (UK)
Sola Rosa (New Zealand)
Wah Wah 45s (UK) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Richie+Phoe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.