Formally known as Ya Boy.

William Joseph Crawford (born January 28, 1984 in the Fillmore District, San Francisco), better known by his stage name Ya Boy, is an American rapper and actor signed to his own Precise Music Group. He also has strong ties with The Game’s Black Wall Street label, and is the cousin of fellow rappers San Quinn, Messy Marv and Champ Bailey. He released his debut album Rookie of the Year in 2005, and plans to release his second studio album, which is untitled so far in 2011. He has even done tracks with Jin the emcee such as; Down So Long and a remix of 16’s Wit Me called 16’s Wit Us

Ya Boy was given his name by his cousin Bailey, and was helped to develop into a rap artist by his other cousin San Quinn. In the Summer of 2005, Ya Boy released his first solo mixtape, Future of The Franchise, and it sold 10,000 copies in the first month alone. This was to be followed up by his debut album, Rookie of the Year. His album features E-40, Turf Talk, Clyde Carson of The Team, San Quinn and more. The first single off the album was produced by Rick Rock and is titled “Step Ya Game Up.”

In 2006, Ya Boy began an affiliation with The Black Wall Street. The Game took him under his wing and the two began to network. His affiliation with Game brought him a step higher in the rap game, as he began to collaborate with big name producers such as JR Rotem, Nu Jerzey Devil and Scott Storch to name a few. Pop star Britney Spears’ ex-husband Kevin Federline, aka [artist[K-Fed, called upon Ya Boy’s talent for writing, and had him ghost write for his debut album Playing With Fire.

Ya Boy makes a cameo appearance in the 1996 crime film Mad Dog Time.

In late 2006, Ya Boy signed to Game’s Warner Brothers distributed label The Black Wall Street Records. After making an appearance on the label’s first release - a mixtape, The Black Wall Street Journal Vol. 1  
Ya Boy has began to work with a number of big name producers including Scott Storch, Araab Muzik and Cool & Dre on his second full length album Holla at Ya Boy. The album’s fresh lead single, "Holla at Ya Boy", was released in early 2008 to critical success in that same year he left Game’s Black Wall Street Records.In 2009 DJ Sourmilk and Mike G's management company, Nitevision and Ya Boy started his own record label with Mike G, "Black Card Music" also that year Boy signed to Mack 10's Hoo-Bangin' Records.[3] he also appeared on the More Than a Game sound track with his song "We Ready". 

In 2010 Boy signed to Akon's label Konvict Muzik and Kon Live Distribution. In August 2010 he released his first single, "Party Girls," featuring Rico Love. Ya Boy released a video for "Lockdown" Featuring Konvict Muzik boss Akon on October 11, 2011. He then released "Trappy Birthday" which caught fire in the streets. 

Ya Boy made a bold change in early 2013 when he announced, via twitter, that he changed his name to Rich Rocka. He also announced that he left Konvict Muzik via an interview with Red Roxx and claimed that he is only with his own label (Black Card Muzik). His next work is an EP, self titled "Rich Rocka", which is expected to be released March 29, 2013. Crawford claims this is his rebirth and this is his "greatest work yet." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rich+Rocka">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.