Richard Youngs (born in Cambridge on 29 May 1966) is a British musician with a prolific and diverse output. A keen collaborator, he has released albums with Matthew Bower, Brian Lavelle (as Brian Lavelle & Richard Youngs), Neil Campbell (as Neil Campbell & Richard Youngs), Stephen Todd, Makoto Kawabata (as Makoto Kawabata & Richard Youngs), Alex Neilson (as Richard Youngs & Alexander Neilson and as Alex Neilson & Richard Youngs), Andrew Paine (under their given names and under the group names ILK and Urban Parable), Telstar Ponies, and his longest standing partner, Simon Wickham-Smith (including as Simon Wickham-Smith & Richard Youngs). He has performed live with Heather Leigh Murray, Vibracathedral Orchestra and also with Matthew Bower's projects Sunroof! and Skullflower. He was also a member of the collective A Band. 

Based in Glasgow since the early 1990s, his extensive back catalogue of solo and collaborative work formally begins with Advent, first issued in 1990. He plays many instruments, most commonly choosing the guitar, but he has been known to use a wide variety of other instruments including the shakuhachi, accordion, theremin, dulcimer, a home-made synthesizer (common on early recordings) and even a motorway bridge. He also released an album which was entirely a cappella.

Youngs is a highly versatile and experimental artist. He has been releasing and performing music since the early 80s, either solo or with a collaborator - and more recently as part of prog revivalists ILK. His work ranges from the affecting Sapphie (a lament for his dog) to the strange humor of Lake (recorded over 3 days in 1990 with Simon Wickham-Smith). 

A keen collaborator, Youngs has released albums with, or played live with, many other artists. 

Youngs also gained attention from his live performances for the notoriously reclusive American avant-folk/blues singer-songwriter Jandek. Youngs can be heard on the Glasgow Sunday, Newcastle Sunday and Glasgow Monday albums, which were recorded at Jandek's first 3 (known) live performances.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Richard+Youngs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.