Riff Raff is the name of more than one artist.

1) American rapper from Texas
2) UK progressive rock band
3) US rock band
4) Island recording artists
5) Finnish hard rock/heavy metal band
6) UK 77-punk (with Billy Bragg]
7) Southern California rock band

1) Horst Christian Simco[3] (born January 29, 1982), better known by his stage name Riff Raff (often stylized as RiFF RAFF),[4] is an American rapper.[5] He was originally managed by Swishahouse co-founder OG Ron C.[6] After being associated with rapper and producer Soulja Boy's imprint S.O.D. Money Gang Inc., Riff Raff was signed to DJ and producer Diplo's record label Mad Decent from 2013 to 2015.[7] 

2) Riff Raff was a UK progressive rock band formed by keyboardist Tommy Eyre in 1972.The band was a continuation on the back of drummers (and Harrow School of Art friends) Rod Coombes (Juicy Lucy Strawbs and Stealers Wheel) and Joe Czarnecki's (Plainsmen) aka Joe Peter's project originally called 'Crikey' started in 1969 and completed in 1970 when Rod had to accept growing tour commitments with Juicy Lucy.These sessions comprise half of the Riff Raff album 'Outside Looking In' in which Rod wrote half the songs.Rod says that "the concept of the band was based around two drummers and afro-jazz (Rod and Joe were great fans of Ginger Baker and Miles Davis) and fusion(this album was one of the first true fusion albums to be recorded).I had worked with Roger with singer Paul Williams (Juicy Lucy)and Tommy previously and clearly we all enjoyed doing what we do best-playing freely".

Riff Raff later went on to release two albums to lukewarm response; however, their use of jazz and hard-edged rock garnered them a large underground following. Riff Raff also released the single "Copper Kettle". Although not typical of Riff Raff's repertoire, the band were unlucky not to get some chart coverage from the single.

3) a US rock band (Doug Lubahn: vocals, bass. Ned Liben: guitar. Werner Fritzsching: guitar. Mark Kaufman: drums) who released an album entitled Vinyl Futures (Atco SD-32-108) in 1981 (notable for having a Hipgnosis sleeve design).

4)  Island recording artists "Riff Raff" 1978, Chris DeMarco, Ray Hennighan, Jimmy Lowell, Ned Liben, David Lanik.

5) Finnish metal band featuring Kaija Koo in backing vocals.

6) UK Punk, Formed1977, Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom
Disbanded1980 //
MembersBilly Bragg (vocals, guitar), Philipp Wigg (guitar), Robert Handley (drums), Steven Rice (keyboards), Ryan O'Lochlainn (bass).
Made  five 7' appers at '1-2-3-4 Punk and New Wave 1976-1979'.

7)  Southern California rock band that featured  vocalist Rudy Torres, drummer Audie Desbrow (Great White)  and Tracy G of future Dio. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Riff+Raff">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.