In 2007 Rikki La Rouge started her own label ANVIL SAPIEN RECORDS.
The same year she became her own publisher when she set up 
with BMI "ANDROGYNOUS MOONCHILD MUSIC PUBLISHING." From
"Deadly Faith" the song "Stonebush" went to 13 on the HardAxe.net chart.
In 2003 Rikki became a BMI songwriter. Her main influences in Metal are Ozzy Osbourne and Poison. From her BMI song catalog Rikki took all of her Metal songs and assembled a Metal repertoire. The year 2004 saw big changes for Rikki La Rouge first with the new name and genre and second her arrival in cyber space with the launch of her website. Rikki La Rouge had a 2 single on Funender Metal chart with a song called "One Poison Apple" in 2006 and in August of the following year Rikki La Rouge was named one of the artists of the month on Metal Sanaz street team profile on Myspace. Notable names in Metal and Hard Rock who have checked out Rikki La Rouge via her Myspace profile are as follows the original lead singer of Anthrax Neil Turbin , the original lead singer of AC/DC Dave Evans, Kristi Majors from Pretty Boy Floyd , and Matt Kramer of Saigon Kick fame. As well as new Metal acts Echoes of Eternity and from the MTV show Battle for Ozzfest: Level-C and Guilt by Association. Even a band that toured with Ozzfest when the festival hit Europe Anti Product. As well as AARIUS studios well known for recording with Black Label Society. Rikki La Rouge did a 2 year tour of cyberspace hitting over 100 music websites an equivalent to doing 100 cities beginning in 2004 ending in 2006 at this time her sound was a mix of Metal: Thrash, Metal, and Death Metal. After independently releasing "Deadly Faith" featuring "One Poison Apple" Rikki shifted artistic direction and returned to her roots by recording a straight Heavy Metal demo that she titled "Mayhem Mantras" she than unveiled her sonic reinvention on her Myspace profile. From the demo she released available only on Myspace "Speed of the Universe" received 1,220 plays and "Lightning Angel" received 624 plays. In December 2007 Rikki La Rouge became part of the Sinister Music INC. family and signed on to be a part of compilation Vol. 65 sponsored by Metal Edge Magazine with "ONE POISON APPLE" handed out on a couple dates of the Ozzy Osbourne/Rob Zombie/In This Moment tour. Featured on the compilation was Arch Enemy as well. One of the dates where the compilation was handed out was Dec. 22nd at Madison Square Garden in New York City. What a combination: on a compilation handed out at Madison Square Garden on a date during Ozzy's first Arena tour in 6 years started as
a one off date became an experience to last for eternity. Rikki sent presskits
including "MAYHEM MANTRAS" CD to Century Media, Nuclear Blast Records,
and Metal Blade Records to name a few. Metal Blade Records was the only
one to reply. 
The record label Metal Edge Entertainment home of Britny Fox known for
their song 'GIRLSCHOOL' showed an interest in Rikki La Rouge as well.

After having success with "DEADLY FAITH" Thrash/Metal Rikki finally 
returned to her roots where she initially started Metal/Glam/Classic Rock.
Rikki La Rouge makes it into a Heavy Metal encyclopedia known as
the Encyclopaedia Metallum. In the United Kingdom on the Myspace 
Top Artists charts: in the Indie charts Rikki La Rouge made it to the
following positions in the following genres of music:
Metal-position 73 Glam-position 10 Classic Rock-position 15.
Tartarean Desires webzine archives Rikki can be found there and
was contacted about sending music for review and she gladly accepted.
On The House Of Hair with Dee Snider she got a profile submitted songs from
her upcoming album "THE SAGITTARIAN SOLDIER" each song so far has
recieved a satisfying amount of plays. On Dee Snider's profile on the site as
fate would have it Rikki La Rouge was placed as the very first friend right
next to Dee Snider's picture. Dee Snider is the legendary frontman of Heavy Metal legend band Twisted Sister.  Also on the House of Hair with Dee Snider website Rikki La Rouge was able to secure a place in the H.O.H. FUTURE STAR section.   The official tribute act to Poison POSIN who was
on THE SURREAL LIFE with C.C. Deville also checked out RLR. Fate and 
destiny came to play again when one day she recieved a phone call that she
had the chance to give her Thrash Demo to Bret Micheals through a family
friend so she did. "Deadly Faith" : Rikki La Rouge 1st release made it on
to the Billboard Magazine.com discography section. Rikki La Rouge was invited 
by Wyldeside Radio to go backstage at Rocklahoma.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rikki+La+Rouge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.