The band was originally formed back in November 1991 by Chriss Ons (guitar) who decided to leave the band he was in at the time, Chronic Death. His band mates Dirk Vollon (bass) and Jürgen De Wispelare (drums) joined the new project, followed by Domingo Smets (guitar). The idea was to musically break out of restraining thrash/death metal sound and to incorporate more harmonic content & epic song structure into the songwriting, something which seemed impossible if staying in Chronic Death. The band set out to rehearse and by early ‘92 had some song ideas together, most of which would wind up on the bands debut demo Archway later that year. By late ‘92 The band got offered a split 7” EP (with the band Ancient Rites) on a small Belgian label, After Dark Records, and used the demo track “Windows” for that release. Meanwhile the band had also been brought to the attention of Hans de Wyngaert of the new label Shiver Records. A deal to release the 13 minute epic track “Tired Blood / Vaudeville” (split over 2 sides) on a 7” single was signed in early ‘93. Both EP’s sold really well, yet while keeping on searching to find new band members, it was mainly Chriss who, assisted by Dirk, would continue writing new material using a small 4 track recorder. Despite the fact that it looked like the trio Chriss/Dirk/Santiago had become a studio project until other musicians were found, Shiver records offered them a CD deal. During the summer of ‘93, about a year after the bands first demo; Chriss and Dirk recorded a 40-minute piece called “The Death Of Art”. The initial idea was to make a concept album and to focus on just the music, and add vocals later. A friend of the band, Canadian writer and philosophy student John Hymers, was asked to write a poem entitled “The Death Of Art”, which would serve as working material for vocalist Santiago. After the final vocal tracks had been recorded, Chriss finished the project by himself due to a lack of input and interest from Dirk. The album finally saw release on Shiver Records in February 1994. The first pressing of the CD sold out in a matter of months, and the album has been repressed and licensed since (including a Polish issue in cassette format). Chriss took a break from writing and recording for about a year, only to start doing so again by mid ‘95, with Dirk Vollon sporadically collaborating. For the time being, the project name was also changed to Rinascimento, to avoid confusion with the other Renaissance, a band that released material mainly during the 70’s. Tons of stuff was recorded over the following years, but, reluctant to release another record without the ability to perform any of it live, most of this demo material was shelved or not entirely completed - Chriss didn’t really feel the “need” to make the music commercially available on a label so in 1998, a double CDR set aptly titled “Rinascimento - demos 1995-1998” was distributed among just a few friends of the band. Due to other interests and activities, the whole project was laid to rest by late 1998 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rinascimento">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.