Rio en Medio (Spanish for river in between), is a pseudonym of folk singer / baritone ukulelist Danielle Stech-Homsy (born in New Mexico, USA). She debuted in 2004 with the album A Bride's Guide To Waiting Music (2004, self-release). 

As Rio en Medio, she has released The Bride of Dynamite (2007), Frontier (Feb 2009, Manimal Vinyl), Peace Sequence (2012), and Rio en Medio Radio (2015). Stech-Homsy's recording / live performance is often in collaboration with Justin Riddle (drums, percussion), Christian Lee (guitar, banjo) and Nicholas Toll (keyboards, percussion).

After moving to Brooklyn (NY), from her high desert New Mexico birthplace, Stech-Homsy began to record and perform her own compositions. Working independently and in secret, she created The Bride Of Dynamite (Feb 2007, Gnomonsong), a collection of collage-like songs incorporating found sounds / electronic-programming, lifting texts from disparate sources - evoking traditional / folk song structure, themes and melodies. A friend passed a hand-made copy of the record to Devendra Banhart, who requested releasing it on his label.

Following The Bride Of Dynamite's release, Stech-Homsy has since performed on stages across the US, Europe and the UK. As well as Banhart, she has worked with many well-regarded artists, including: Grizzly Bear, CocoRosie, Brightblack Morning Light, Vetiver, Patrick Wolf, Vashti Bunyan and Tim Fite. In April 2007, she did Take-Away Show, an acoustic video session, shot by Vincent Moon.

Rio en Medio's music can be described as delicate and fragmented songs, featuring a sparse/haunting trio of baritone ukulele, subtly harmonized vocals and electronic/sampled soundscapes - evoking the spun poetry of ancient folk lullabies and a hint of contemporary culture's darker side.

Stech-Homsy cites influences, including, traditional styles tropicalia and folk (Russian, Spanish, US and English), plus a diversity musicians (e.g. Bob Dylan and Beth Gibbons).

As well as Riddle, Lee and Toll - on stage, Rio en Medio has been represented by a range of other musical and visual guests/collaborators, including: Justin Hartery (video), Cohdi Harrell (aerialist) and the sound/visual artist Vlad Kromatika. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rio+En+Medio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.