Mansfield based RIOT SQUAD were originally formed in September 1981 in the small Nottinghamshire mining village of Shirebrook. The original lineup consisted of Dunk Mason (vocals), Paul 'Pommi' Palmer (drums), Nigel 'Nello' Nelson (guitar) and Wayne Butler (bass). They first started out by playing small local gigs in and around Mansfield before hitting the road and travelling up and down the UK on small tours. During this time the band found a keen interest from Mansfield based record label Rondolet Records and were soon signed up, firstly releasing 'Fuck the Tories' EP, which was produced by Mike Stone and then a second EP 'Riots in the City' was released.

Shortly after this time, Nello left the band to be quickly replaced by local guitarist Staz, who only lasted a short tour. Three men were almost immediately reduced to two when Dunk announced that he was leaving to set up his own record label, which later became Rot Records.

From early on, 1983 saw big changes to the lineup... Wayne moved onto the guitar, while recruiting local bassist Ched to handle bass duties and lead vocals being taken over by ex-roadie (and Wayne's brother) Lee. A few short weeks after the new lineup was established, Dunk approached RIOT SQUAD as his first signing. With this new lineup also came a different sound and approach to their earlier material and the band were soon gigging all over the UK.

RIOT SQUAD entered Cargo Recording Studios in Rochdale in early 1983, firstly recording the 'Don't Be Denied' EP, then recording 'I'm OK, Fuck You' EP, which reached No.2 in the Independent Charts only to be kept off the top slot by Johnny Rotten's 'Death Disco and Public Image Ltd' and as a result RIOT SQUAD appeared on the front cover of the now legendary Punk Lives Magazine. The thirdly came the 'There's No Solution' EP.

By 1984 things took a bad turn as Lee was sent down for GBH and the band were falling out with the label due to financial disagreements regarding royalties. The band left Rot Records, however not before Dunk released all of the singles and some unreleased demos on the LP 'No Potential Threat'. After this the band disbanded with each member going their own separate ways and later on, Annagram Records released all of RIOT SQUAD's songs on a 'Punk Singles Collection' compilation.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Riot+Squad">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.