Raphaël Ripperton started his DJing career in 1993. When D ! Club opened its doors in 1997, he started a collaboration and became monthly guest DJ at The Rêve d’O in Geneva at the same time.

Between 1998 and 1999, he founded the band Soul Merge along with friends Sacha Unger and Cicco whom first maxi “Can Be Love” is released on Chic Records.  He works at Tracks record in Lausanne and organizes People Nights parties, pursues his collaboration with D! Club and Rêve d’O and mixes on famous national radio Couleur 3 in Métissages.

2000 is the beginning of the Live Electronic Show for Raphaël Ripperton as well as for his band Soul Merge. Between 2001 and 2004. He then creates the house label Lovearth Records and produces his brand new band : Reasons with the album “Sounds Natural”, winner of the Diesel U Music Award in 2002 and touring live across Switzerland until end of 2004.

In 2004 & 2005, Ripperton works with Stéphane Attias on a project named Good Samaritans on People Records (London), with his brother Alex Attias (Mustang) on Neroli rec (Italy) & Visions Rec (London) and is compiled on the top compilation “Suck My Deck” by Damian Lazarus. He also makes remixes of “Controlling the House” for Laurent Garnier, Xela Saitta’s Daylight, Solieb’s isotropy, Spencer Parker & Radioslave’sbeautifull noize,  Patrick Chardronnet’s Eve by day and released his project Rayon aka Ripperton on Crosstown Rebel (London), Connaisseurs rec (Germany), Num rec. (Switzerland), Liebe*detail, which is compiled by Carl Craig on the new Fabric & James Holden’s at the control. 

In 2006 he started the well-known underground label, Perspectiv Records, which brought out some fresh talent from Switzerland and around the world and nurtured some
interesting interactions with amazing producer like Tobias, DJ Koze, John Daly and Isolée, all highly respected by Raphaël.

His long-awaited LP was out early 2010. Called "Niwa", this modern piece of music mixes different kinds of sounds from varied horizons and was released on the Dutch 'Green' label owned by friends Joris Voorn & Edwin Oosterwal. In 2011 he teamed up with Deetron on a new project and started working on his new album.

http://www.ripperton.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ripperton">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.