"RIPSAW: SKULLBASHING HEAVY METAL FOR THE MASSES!"

Early 2007 four dedicated Dutch heavy metal musicians from a small town called Nederweert established RIPSAW. The band is heavily influenced by classic trashmetal bands such as Sacred Reich, Slayer and the mighty Pantera. RIPSAW strives to make tracks that would stick to the classic energy that so many metal heads of the past decades swore to bang their heads to. The music has a catchiness and a groove that would blow the socks of anyone who were to cross through pit. By April the hard working brothers of RIPSAW went straight into the recording process at PIGhouse studio in Weert, The Netherlands.

Without any hesitation RIPSAW jumped right back into the rehearsal studio with the now set-in-ink line-up: ROVE hitting the bass strings while filling the microphone with a powerful voice. DUKE on guitar, shredding his way through the high speed devastating riffs of RIPSAW.  Also on guitar, they brought BRUCE in to toss out the unique and mad grooving melodies of metal. And to play the hell out of his drumkit and lay beats that would snap your neck, AL is there.

June 20th 2007, RIPSAW released their first promo cd. An assault of a pure form of metal from the 80's and 90's, this 4-track clearly states that RIPSAW is ready for battle. Promised to the success of their work in various other bands like Maggots, Red Zone Cuba and Powerslave, their plan is to take over any venue possible, starting in the summer of 2007. RIPSAW will take it to extremes with a stage performance of full on velocity and utmost power. It will put them on the map as one of the great modern day heavy metal bands to reign from The Netherlands.

RIPSAW stands for hard working dedication power and strength, the indestructibility in the chains of true metal a couple of shots of whiskey and some beers, and definitely a badass party for all you folks out there! Get ready to be skull-bashed by the awesome stage fits of RIPSAW!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ripsaw">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.