Hailing from the north-east of England, RISEN PROPHECY was formed in 2005 by Ross Oliver (guitars) and James Charlton (drums) who then quickly recruited Dan Tyrens (vocals) and Ben Oliver (bass). Since the beginning the line-up has remained strong and stable because they share the same influences and are best friends outside the band. RISEN PROPHECY's music is rooted in thrash but they take and mix in a variety of different genres, like US power metal and progressive metal, with a special leaning towards epic and conceptual songs.

In 2007, at the average age of 17, they recorded and released their first 2-track demo "Risen Prophecy". In 2009 the band recorded their first full-length album entitled "Screaming for Death" which was released independently on 1st of April 2010.

On the back of this album RISEN PROPHECY toured the UK extensively and were able to play alongside bands such as: CAULDRON, BATTLEAXE, CETI, SPARTAN WARRIOR (NWOBHM legends whom James Charlton joined on drums in 2011), SODOMIZER, VOMITOR and REZET. From these shows they gained a reputation for tight, unrelenting performances.

In 2012, the band started writing material for what would turn into their second full-length entitled "Into the Valley of Hinnom". The album was recorded by acclaimed producer/musician Greg Chandler (ESOTERIC) in the winter of 2013 and the summer of 2014. Soon after the the work was finished, they submitted it to Metal on Metal Records. Offering a deal to the band was a no-brainer for the not easily impressed label owners, as the music was 100% compatible with their tastes, and presented a quality much above average, both when it comes to songwriting and the technical abilities of individual musicians, including the vocalist whose range and charisma can't leave anybody indifferent. The album delivers a punishing blend of thrash, traditional and extreme metal mixed with epic concepts and melodic resolves. "Into the Valley of Hinnom" was released on April 24th 2015.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Risen+Prophecy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.