There are seven artists by the name of Rise:

1.)Rise from Macclesfield, UK is a producer and musician currently recording for the Futuristica Music label. Rise has worked with and produced for artists such as Deborah Jordan, Replife, Jazz Chronicles, Low Budget Soul, Beit Nun and Spinnerty to name but a few. In 2011 he released his debut L.P. 'Messages'.

2.)Rise from Los Angeles, California formed in 1993 and is a death metal band with some black metal influences that appeared on their third full-length. The band is still active and so far they have released one demo tape and three full-length albums (as well as a new album forthcoming.)

3.)Rise hails from Brooklyn, New York. An underground hip hop artist who has released two albums and has appeared on a few compilations. Known for his witty wordplay/punchlines, complex rhyme schemes, and smooth flow.

4.)Rise from Los Angeles, California formed in high school in '77 and were a punk rock band. They auditioned sophomore Tom Araya [Slayer] as a bassist, but his mom decided they'd be a bad influence on him. The first three Rise singles came on colored (and sometimes shaped) vinyl.

5) RISE  was formed in the summer of 2003 by Craig Junghandel (vocals), Mark Schiesl (guitars), Jason Roberts (bass), and Ray Rocha (drums). The band, located on the California Central Coast, combines professionalism and musicianship, along with an infectious amount of energy and enthusiasm. Their material consists of songs spanning the last five decades, and includes everything from Al Green to Iron Maiden, though high-energy hard rock is regarded as their specialty.

6)Rise is a largely celtic-influenced alt.folk band from the Island of Bute on the Scottish West Coast. Known for the high degree of musicianship on their albums, their music has been described as eclectic, original, inventive, very musical and highly evocative.

7)Rise are a four piece originals band based in West Yorkshire, UK. Their music draws upon influences ranging from Soul/Funk to Rock and (a little) Jazz. It has been described as easy to listen to, un-offensive, and chilled! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.