Rise Of My Empire was formed in late 2008 at Aston University, Birmingham, England. 
Initially formed by Roman Lamcev and Adam Speirs, the group needed to further the lineup and thus added vocalist Richard Moran. After a plethora of drummers and bassists the group finally settled with first year drummer Will and first year bassist Antoni.
After their departure the band were pleased to announce the addition of bass player Alin Iordache to the band and after 1 year of practicing in that formula singer Daniel Jacobs replaced Richard and joined us in our endeavors. The band had numerous gigs in Birmingham and around the West Midlands area.
In 2011 the band started recording an album with Liviu Gheorghe, only tracking drums, guitars and bass, unfortunately they never got round to recording vocals. And then 2012 came, it was a tough year for R.o.M.E. as not only Daniel Jacobs decided to step down but also founding member, lead guitarist and composer Roman Lamcev as well. Ex-Splintertone members Dale Collyer and Adam "Spence" Spencer joined the ranks, as well as Alexander Alexandrow, a very good friend of Roman Lamcev on lead guitar.
With replenished mana and squad the band started gigging again, hitting all the venues in the Midlands.
The last gig the band had was in November 2013 in the Asylum in Birmingham, which was Alin's last gig with R.o.M.E., but not before asking former Splintertone bassist and friend of the band Jon Crofts to take his place.
Soon after that Adam Speirs left the band to be able to concentrate on his career and family, and the band went on hiatus.
Last know line-up:
Alexander Alexandrow - Lead guitar
Jon Crofts - Bass
Adam Spencer - Vocals
Dale Collyer - Drums

Former Members
Alin Iordache - Bass
Roman Lamcev - Lead Guitar
Adam Speirs - Rhythm guitar
Daniel Jacobs - Vocals
Richard "Dub" Moran - Vocals
Jack Heimon - Bass
Will Davies - Drums 

Live/Session members: 
Richard Kirk - Drummer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rise+of+My+Empire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.