About Rise To Addiction
Who Do We Think We Are?

Fast rising UK band RISE TO ADDICTION are the brainchild of guitarists Steve Wray and John Slater (former BLAZE).

In 2004 John and Steve moved quickly to establish a solid line up of high quality, proven musicians. They hooked up with former NINEDENINE frontman Leigh Oates and also the band's rhythm section Aynsley Dickinson (Drums) and Joel Graham (Bass).

RTA began an intensive writing schedule and soon entered Backstage Studios in the depths of rural Derbyshire to record three tracks with the hottest producer in metal, Andy Sneap (Machine Head, Killswitch Engage, Trivium, Opeth, Megadeth etc) - the resulting session was their self titled EP which features the tracks 'Falling As One', 'Everlasting Wave' and 'To A God Unknown'.

This collection of organic, crunching songs showcased the bands distinctive and modern sound - a devastating grasp of melody combined with slab heavy riffing and shredding Guitar.

The songs so impressed UK independent label Madman Records that an offer was made to release the EP via Plastic Head distribution within days of its completion.

Released in July 2005, the EP was hailed by the press and became a firm favourite with the band’s growing fan base.

The EP launched RISE TO ADDICTION into the public conscience, with leading UK rock magazine Powerplay describing the release as "easily the best independent release I've ever heard or reviewed", whilst Classic Rock’s Geoff Barton said that RTA “combines anthemic Metallica elements with melodic eccentricities...” and called it the "start of a very promising career".

Prominent radio stations including Total Rock, Extreme Radio and XFM in the UK also voiced their approval with opening track 'Falling as One' receiving substantial airplay. This airplay has since continued to grow as overseas stations have added RTA to their playlists. The band most recently became Artists of the Month on Hard Rock Radio Live in Australia.

RISE TO ADDICTION followed the EP’s release with high profile main stage appearances at prestigious UK events, including the Rock and Blues and Bloodstock festivals. An inspired performance as opening act at the Bloodstock festival saw a sell-out crowd of nearly 2000 people going crazy at the unearthly hour of 11.30 am!

This performance prompted Terrorizer magazine to say, "By song two or three they have people who haven't even eaten yet screaming their lungs out!"...

Further headline shows around the UK followed for the band, where they continued to deliver incendiary live performances and build a loyal and ever increasing following.

RISE TO ADDICTION recently completed work (again with producer Andy Sneap) on their debut album. “A New Shade of Black for the Soul” which will be released worldwide in MAY 2007 via Belgium based legendary Heavy Metal label MAUSOLEUM Records.

“We’ve really pushed the envelope on this album, it’s been a long time in the making and we’re all beyond proud of the end result” enthused Leigh Oates (Vocals) recently.

In support of “A New Shade…”RTA will tour for the first time outside of the UK as special guests to legendary US band TROUBLE on their 'Simple Mind Condition' European Tour starting May 26th, 2007. RTA will then follow this tour up with shows in the Czech Republic including an appearance at the MOTONÁLET Festival on the 4th August 2007.

Additionally RISE TO ADDICTION are honoured to be making a home coming appearance at the UK’s premier Metal festival; Bloodstock Open Air 2007:

“We opened the main stage at the indoor event a couple of years back and the atmosphere was just awesome, there was a real magic about that show, the audience were amazing. We can’t wait for BOA 2007!” commented Guitarist Steve Wray.

RTA are currently finalising promotional plans with further tour details to be announced shortly.

Outspoken, brash and confident - RISE TO ADDICTION are the antidote to the soulless and mundane music that litters the Rock scene these days, they are ready to offer you a legitimate alternative...

-are you ready?

Unlike a lot of new bands, they actually have something worth getting excited about. (NME)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rise+to+Addiction">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.