Rising Darkness was formed in October 2005 by Ted Abrahamsson and Kristoffer ”Angus” Norder. It all began when Angus wanted to play the bass in the band that Ted played in at that time. But before Ted even had the chance to answer him, the band had already broken up. So Ted and Angus decided to start a band of their own. 
 
They were at Ted’s house to write songs. They wrote four songs, but only one of them are in the repertoar of today: ”Dark Alliance”. The other three, for one reason or another, never made it! 
 
After writing the songs, Ted had an idea that the band should be called Dark Alliance too. Both of them thought that it was a good name, so Dark Alliance it was. All they had to do now was to get some more members. Angus got Lisette Helsing (bass) into the band. The meaning was that Angus would play the bass, but he wanted to play the guitar instead. But this line up didn't last long. Just after three weeks Lisette stopped coming to the rehearsals and so she was fired. 
 
So Ted talked to his friend Robin Kåhlin (rhythm guitar), and he wanted in. So now they had two guitarists and Ted on vocals and the drums. Some weeks later, Angus brought his friend Daniel ”Frank” Frank (lead & rhythm guitar) to testplay with the band and it clinched really good, so he was in. And about one week later, Rasmus ”Croniz” Cronstrand (bass), entered the band. But when it came to their minds that it would not work with Ted on both the drums and vocals, Ted contacted his uncle Håkan Abrahamsson (drums), who became the new drummer. The line up at this time was Ted on vocals, Croniz on the bass, Angus on the lead & rhythm guitar, Frank on the lead & rhythm guitar, Robin on the rhythm guitar and Håkan on the drums. 
 
This line up lasted for some time. But  Ted and Angus felt that Robin wasn't so effective as they wanted him to be, plus they thought it was unnecessary to have three guitarists. So there was no other way out than to kick him from the band. With this said and done, the band started to rehearse like never before and encountered only one problem: The name Dark Alliance was already taken. So Ted thought up the new name: Rising Darkness. 
 
  
On the 15:th July 2006 the band went into the studio to record their first demo. By this time, the band had five songs, which all are on the demo ”We Laugh As You Rot”. The songs are: 
 
1.Madness Will Rain (Ted Abrahamsson, Kristoffer Norder) 2:33 
2.Dark Alliance (Ted Abrahamsson, Kristoffer Norder) 2:34 
3.I Can’t (Ted Abrahamsson, Kristoffer Norder, Daniel Frank) 5:31 
4.Into The Unknown (Ted Abrahamsson, Kristoffer Norder, Håkan Abrahamsson) 4:17 
5.We Laugh As You Rot( Ted Abrahamsson, Kristoffer Norder, Daniel Frank, Håkan Abrahamsson) 4:28 
 
The recording went very well and was finished and mixed in just two days. The band had now done what they had hoped for when Ted and Angus first started the band back in 2005. 
 
But when everything seemed so good and when they thought that there wasn't a worry in the world, Angus and Croniz decided to quit the band. Exactly why we’ll probably never know. 
 
So the search for a new bassplayer and a new guitarist began. Håkan immediately thought of his old friend/former bandmember in Lost In Lunacy: Martin Pettersson (lead & rhythm guitar). They asked him if he wanted in, and boy did he! He hadn't played in a band since Lost In Lunacy split up in the beginning of 2004. But there still was a problem getting a new bassplayer. Until Ted came to think about his old friend Fredrik Karlsson (who had played the bass in the band that Angus wanted to play the bass in!). He asked him and he said yes straight away! Everyone enjoyed  it alot so Fredrik entered Rising Darkness in the 10:th September 2006. Todays line up is: 
 
All vocals: Ted 
Bass: Fredrik 
Lead & rhythm guitar: Frank 
Lead & rhythm guitar: Martin 
Drums: Håkan <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rising+Darkness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.