Rita Sahatçiu Ora, better known as Rita Ora, is a Kosovar-British singer-songwriter from London, UK. Born in Prishtina in 1990, Ora's family moved to London where she was raised. According to the Hot Right Now Songfacts, during her early teens Ora attended the Sylvia Young Theatre School, whose other notable alumni include Emma Bunton and Amy Winehouse. 

Her first UK exposure came after several collaborations with British singer Craig David. In 2009, she also auditioned for BBC talent competition 'Your Country Needs You' – to select the United Kingdom's entrant for the Eurovision Song Contest – but withdrew her application.

In 2009, she signed a recording contract with Jay-Z's label Roc Nation and relocated to America. The How We Do (Party) Songfacts reports that when Ora visited Clear Channel with Jay-Z to present music and videos from her debut release, the executives were so enthused by what they heard that they organised for How We Do (Party)  to be immediately premiered on DJ JJ's afternoon show on New York's top hit music station WHTZ (Z100). Her debut album ORA was released on 26th August, 2012.

In December 2015, Ora filed a lawsuit against Roc Nation, seeking release from the label and citing that the contract she signed in 2008 is "unenforceable", due to California's "seven-year rule." The complaint stated that she's "only been permitted to release one album despite creating multiple additional records for release" and that her relationship with Roc Nation is "irrevocably damaged." Her complaint also pointed out a breach of contract, reporting that Roc Nation breached the recording agreement by improperly taking twenty percent commission of her income. In January 2016, Roc Nation filed a counter-lawsuit against Ora for breaking her recording contract. They reached a settlement in May 2016. In June 2016, it was reported that she signed a new record deal with Atlantic Records and Warner Music Group.

Ora's second studio album, Phoenix, was released in November 2018. The lead single, "Your Song", reached the UK top ten; and the subsequent singles, "Anywhere" and "Let You Love Me", reached the top five in the UK. "Let You Love Me" allowed Ora to become the first British female solo artist to have thirteen top ten songs in the United Kingdom. Phoenix was supported by the "Phoenix World Tour" which began March 1st, 2018 and commenced July 16th, 2019.

In September 2019, Ora revealed she had begun work on her third studio album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rita+Ora">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.