Riti Occulti is an occult blackened doom metal band, formed in Rome, Italy during the Summer of 2011 by Niccolò Tricarico and Ivano Mandola.
Their musical vision first took shape as a duo, consisting of bass and percussion. Their signature sound further developed with the inclusion of Luciano Lamanna as synthesizer player, and Serena Mastracco and Elisbetta Marchetti as vocalists. In January 2012 they were joined by Sara Del Regno as official keyboardist for live performances.
The first self-titled full-length, roughly 50 minutes of monolithic riffs, immerses the listener into an abyss of dark psychedelic sounds and ritualistic atmospheres.
They take a lot of inspiration for their unique sound from genres such as doom, black metal and the 70s psychedelic scene. Hence their music can be best described as a mix of hypnotic sounds and esoteric themes that guide the listener towards the left hand path.
After a live gigs season to promote their first album , during summer of 2012 they started to work on their new ritual "Secta", a concept about Alchemy in which each track is dedicated to an alchemical element.
In March 2013 Riti Occulti entered the studio to record "Secta", entrusting to Lorenzo Stecconi (Lento, Ufomammut, The Secret and many others) the new album production.
Recordings lasted for a month and with the help of their new sound engineer they worked hard to improve on their sound ,that became more ritualistic, psychedelic and heavier, enhanced by liturgical and ethnic parts: a deep journey through mystical initiation.
Meanwhile in March the Band released the official video-clip of "Alcyone", directed by Alessandro Pontillo, receiving a warm welcome from the audience. The video is a reworking of the classic Greek myth of Alcyone, from which the song took its name: Alcyone threw herself into the sea for grief, and that the gods, out of compassion, changed her and her lover into birds. The myth is reworked in an esoteric key, contrasting the natural but destructive element of the sea beside the dark atmospheres of a séance through which the band members evoke Alcyone’s spirit.

http://www.facebook.com/RitiOcculti
http://ritiocculti.altervista.org
http://ritiocculti.bigcartel.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Riti+Occulti">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.