About RiZen - 2004 Stellar Award Winner for Best New Gospel Group

Mission Statement: Empowered by the Holy Spirit, RiZen strives to present a music ministry to both believers and seekers which glorifies the Lord. By using their musical gifts and ability to perform, they will present the Gospel, in such a way as to encourage, strengthen believers' faith and walk with the Lord and to draw seekers toward the way, the truth and the light, Jesus Christ.

Adriann and Aundrea Lewis, Kanika Trigg, and Ashley Jones, introduced as the "anointed women of God," are the members of this "retro gospel girl group" who's Gospel music is built on the solid foundation of traditional Gospel music, with a healthy shot of R & B, all stirred together with RiZen's own outstanding musical interpretation of Gospel music.

This results in creating a sound that both pays tribute to traditional Gospel and brings Gospel music into the 21st century with a powerful, joyful, inspiring bang. Adriann and Aundrea Lewis, Kanika Trigg and Ashley Jones are very talented young women, anointed by the Lord to use their musical gifts and ability to perform so effectively to present the Gospel to encourage, strengthen believers' faith and walk with the Lord and to draw seekers toward the way, the truth and the light, Jesus Christ.

All four members of RiZen were born and raised in Michigan. Adriann and Aundrea Lewis are the daughters of Pastor Luciose Lewis, and have been involved with Gospel music from a very young age. Their singing talent was "carefully and lovingly nurtured by their mother, Kayron Lewis In the Lewis home growing up, Adriann, Aundrea and their brother, AyRon, who is now a Gospel song writer, became very familiar with the music and spiritual inspiration of such Gospel artists as Shirley Caesar, Albertina Walker, Dorothy Norwood and James Cleveland, as well as a variety of R & B artists as well.

Adriann explains how these early musical influences and experiences have affected their music now. "Our parents let us listen to R& B because they knew we loved the music. That was a great thing, because I know those influences contributed to our diversity as singers as we were growing up. But there's no doubt about it, that classic gospel is in our blood, and what we love to sing the most."

Because of their God-given talents in music, both sisters were led to perform from an early age. Adriann sang her first solo in church at the age of three, while standing on a wooden box in the pulpit so everyone could see her. Aundrea grew up singing in the church choir as well and later became the director of the choir. In the '90's she was a soloist with the formation of RiZen, which originally started off with eight members in 1996.

Different expectations of various members caused some friction and the group never had peace. One by one people dropped out until the group had shrunken down to just three women; Adriann, Aundrea and Kanika Trigg, who is a very good friend of Adriann, had joined RiZen soon after joining Pastor Lewis's church. This was a low point of discouragement, which caused Adriann to question a little if this was the path that the Lord was calling them to go down. But, bolstered by prayer and faith, they carried on with determination.

Adriann comments, "There were times when I really began to doubt if this was really what God was calling me to do, but we were still determined to go on. And we're seeing the blessings He's brought to us now. Like they say, the Lord may not be there with what you think you need, when you think you need it, but He's always right on time."

About four years ago, Ashley Jones became the fourth member of RiZen after auditioning for the soprano spot in the group. With the right chemistry, having full hearts for the Lord, empowered by the Holy Spirit and supported by their church community, their musical talents gelded together, creating their own very unique, energetic brand of Gospel music that stirs the soul, lifts the spirits and brings the gospel of Jesus Christ to life.

Principle producer of their new CD, Sanchez Harley comments on their collective talent and appeal. "Before we began this project, I sat in on one of RiZen's rehearsals, and was just blown away at the degree of development in both their talent and material. I knew right away that this was something very special that would bless a lot of people."  (http://christianmusic.com/rizen/rizen.htm)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/RiZen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.