There are several artists with this name: 1. a power metal band from Switzerland, 2. a gospel artist from the Caribbean, 3. a rapper from Hungary.

1) Rizon is a symphonic/power metal band from Switzerland formed in 1997.  

The story of Rizon

The beginnings...

RIZON was founded as a school group in May 1997 by Matthias Götz (vocals), Christian Götz (guitar) and Marco Küderli (keyboard). Marcel Hodel played on bass and René Hupjan on drums. In the early years, RIZON was characterized by constant lineup changes, which made it difficult for the band to develop quickly. When Tom Lindegger (drums) joined the band in 2001, RIZON almost only played their own songs. Tom put his stamp on the rhythm section and brought the band a decisive step forward with his intense drumming. With the addition of Jim Dodd (bass), John Wardle (guitar) and Franziska Germann (vocals), the band began to develop their own sound style. The band calls the mix between rocking guitars and symphonic keyboards, characterized by two-part singing, "Melodic Power Rock".

Evolution 2005

While recording their debut album 'Evolution', John Wardle left the band and was replaced on guitar by Mark Wietlisbach (Leroy, Steve Whitney Band, Purple Lizard). The solo guitars from 'Evolution' were then recorded by Mark and he brought new impulses to the band with his way of playing guitar. The album "Evolution" enabled the band to appear in concert halls such as Alpenrock House Kloten, Rock City Uster and Dynamo Zurich.

Sudden Life 2008

At the beginning of 2008 the band worked with Dennis Ward (including Krokus, Alannah Myles) in Germany on their second album "Sudden Life". It was released under the German label "Karthago Records". After the record baptism on October 31, 2008 at Dynamo Werk21 in Zurich, the band embarked on a Switzerland-wide tour in which they were guests at the Z7 in Pratteln and the Alpenrockhouse in Kloten, among others. The final concert took place after around 20 concerts on December 12, 2009 in the old casino in Wettingen. It was the last concert with Franziska Schärer-Germann, who left the band and was replaced by Seraina Telli at the microphone.

Masquerade 2012

After an intensive phase of songwriting in 2010, 13 new Rizon songs were recorded in the first half of 2011 in the local ring studios, which in the meantime had grown to a size of 100 m2 and are located in Volketswil ZH. The concept of two-part singing was further expanded and the female voice was given even more space on the new songs. A consistent further development which was already apparent during the development from Evolution to Sudden Life.

This time the album "Maquerade" was mixed in the far north by Nino Laurenne in Sonic Pump Studios. In addition to his own band Thundestone, Nino has already produced and mixed greats such as Apokalyptika, Lordi, Amorphis and other northern heavy metals. The mastering was done by Svante Forsbäck at Chartmakers Studios in Helsinki. Svante can include references such as Rammstein, Sonata Arctica and Sunrise Avenue. The album 'Masquerade' was released after the merger of "Karthago-Records" with "Pure Steel Records" in the winter of 2012 under the previous label "Karthago-Records". In October 2012 bassist Jim Dodd left the band and through Tilo Preller, became an experienced one Metal bass rivets replaced.

Power Plant 2016

The first songs were written in autumn 2013. In the spring of 2014, Reto Hähnel took over the position of lead guitar and has since then unmistakably shaped the Rizon sound with his playing. In the fall of 2014, the Rizon lineup was then completed again; first with Maik Kindermann on bass and finally with Rahel Fischer as singer. The songwriting was already well advanced at this point and the first half of 2015 was dominated by the reordering of the new CD "Power Plant", the release of which is planned for the beginning of 2016. This time the album will be mixed by Jacob Hansen (Doro, Pretty Maids, Amaranthe, Volbeat, etc.) in Denmark.

After concerts as co-headliners with Serenity (AT) and headlining shows in Switzerland, the Power Plant Tour continued in 2017 and 2018 and was concluded in autumn 2018 at the Charity Rock Night as support for the Swiss metal legend Eluveitie.

2020, the story continues ...

In 2019 Rizon are again working on new songs for their album. Most of the studio recordings were completed in the first half of 2020. Due to the current situation with various restrictions in social life due to the corona pandemic, the band has decided to temporarily postpone the release to mid-2021. Together with the exceptional talent Anastasia Panagiotou, the new female voice of RIZON, the band uses the additional time to perfect the songs, shoot videos and prepare the release in 2021. The mixer legend Jacob Hansen will put the finishing touches to the songs.

Line-Up 2022:
Vocals- Matthias Goetz
Vocals- Anastasia Panagiotou
Guitar- Reto Hähnel
Guitar- Christian Gotz
Keyboard- Marco Kuderli
Bass- Maik Kindermann
Drums- Tom Lindegger

Previously female vocals were performed by Franziska Germann, Seraina Telli and Rahel Fischer.
--

2) Rizon is a gospel artist & speaker based in the Caribbean Island of Trinidad & Tobago: https://www.facebook.com/rizonmusic

--

3) RiZoN is a Hungarian rapper: https://www.facebook.com/rizonmusixx/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rizon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.