According to unofficial reports the 3rd Album, after the last release in 2001, is currently in the mixing.

Whole message:  "There is a record but the communications within the band members is terminated we'll see what time tells but I can assure you there is a third and probably the best one of all of Roachpowder records to bad I quit right before the mixing of that album never to have heard the finished material, just to mess with their shit I do have some of the demo songs for that record may be I will post them up as a treat for all you Roachpowder fans!!!
Sincerely... Francisco Rencoret"

Drafting unused strains on the newest forms of heavy metal, Roachpowder offered combative sounds, linked with unstoppable deliveries of energy within their creations. Discharging influences coming from bands such as Black Sabbath and Electric Lizard, the Swedish unit cleared out new alternatives on the heaviest musical scopes, combining the strongest forms of stoner rock with thrash metal picks. Starting off in a band called Skintrade, Masen Persson (drums), George Bravo (guitar), and bassist Hogge Calmroth soon found out that the musical differences within the group were beginning to be a major barrier for their evolution. It was in September 1995 that the three got together for their first rehearsals as a trio. The search for a singer that could team up with the band's spirit did not take long, and in November 1995, Francisco Rencoret, Bravo's brother, joined the outfit. After working for more than a year, Roachpowder finally recorded their debut album Viejo Diablo in April 1997. The disc hit record stores in Sweden in 1998, one year before its release in the U.S., on the Music Cartel label, leading them to considerable success. The band then suffered their first lineup change, when Calmroth left, being substituted with Lasse Rosenberg, formerly with Entombed and Therion. 
More than two years were necessary for the crew to unleash a second long-length, and it wasn't until 2001 that Atomic Church was delivered. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Roachpowder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.