Roadkill Decorum - An infamous bunch of murderers, drunks, home-breakers and perverts shredding your childrens' souls and selling them to communists while not being preoccupied with burning churches or wiping the floor with christian rock bands? Maybe. Were you to start thinking yourself for yourself, however, things might appear very differently to you in the brand new objective reality and outside the influences of closed reality systems. 

Now that we have your attention, we might as well quit the crap and go straight for blood. The parasympathetic nervous system of Roadkill Decorum is composed of Schwarzkommander Cataclysm and Frater Grigori Bock, who first crossed their paths in the 666 feet deep-gutters of Tampere, Finland.

The story of our anti-superheroes began from where the sun wouldn't shine on a cadaverous autumn night, in a sweet limbo that exists no more. Rat knew a rat when he saw one and everything that would follow afterwards is now history of the brave new world, ruled helplessly on its hands and knees by the iron fist of the anathemas.

After wreaking some havoc and trying out some more and some less promising accomplice-candidates as additional parts to heir death squad, for some time the black army of two was determined to continue on their path of perversions with a one-man unit of machine guns, hailing from where the northwind blows. Enter Nordic Stormbringer, a madman responsible for the onslaught of tons of metal, wood and polymer with his bare hands and sticks.

Upon coming public as a triumvirate, Roadkill Decorum gained lots of attention after having released their first official demo in 2012. It was soon about the time to hit the road with the material to present the audience something much more than just an audible experience. Before the year was over, the group would also eventually orchestrate a tour together with sympho-metal band "Trelleborg" from St. Petersburg along the lines of Helsinki-Moscow axis. The timing could not have been more appropriate for the addition of a fourth dead man to the crew, appearing in the form of an old friend moving back to Finland from Germany. With Legatus Ex Chao having taken rhythm guitars in his control, the unholy workings of the perennial platoon are currently serving their purpose much better than ever before. 

Long story short, the Ferocious Four's Black Hell on Wheels is now in for the kill and the massacre will be quite many decibels more than a silent scream... For Death's gearbox is a manual one. 

Members:
Schwarzkommander Cataclysm - Lead Guitars
Frater Grigori Bock - Vocals/Bass
Nordic Stormbringer - Drums
Legatus Ex Chao - Rhythm Guitars <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Roadkill+Decorum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.