4 bands go by the name of roadkill

1) the Death/Thrash band from Ardmore Pennsylvania featuring members of Ardmore Assault, Häxan and N.T.S.

2) Roadkill started out playing hardrock covers but found way more satisfaction in writing their own music.
After a few changes in the Roadkill line-up, Marco Hendriks joined Roadkill and that turned out the perfect formula for creating Heavy Metal. Roadkill recorded several demotapes like “Decider”, “Turned Page” and the “Pyramid” mini-CD, before devoting themselves to the newly born “Merlin” album.
“Merlin” is a 13 track, full length album and consists of the purest Heavy Metal. Unfortunately, Marco Hendriks died halfway through 2005 because of cancer and although we were all deeply saddened, Roadkill decided to keep the metal flame burning. We found a new frontman named Marc Mes (ex Wastelands) and while we were trying to get the band back on track, Roadkill guitarist Mario decided to leave us so we were back to square one. After numerous auditions, a guy showed up with a purple Ibanez, said his name was Jaco Dekker and was here to save the band.
Both Marc and "Jack" have proved themselves as very dedicated, totally musically talented, true headbangers and are, just like Marco was, irreplacable. With the troops back in line, Roadkill is currently touring to promote the "Merlin, Master of Metal" album and and the same time we're writing new material for the upcoming album. We'll keep you informed about any news through the Roadkill Homepage.

3)Roadkill was the name of the band put together by Howard Drossin to perform the music for the Sega video game "Comix Zone", released in 1995. European copies of the game came packaged with a CD containing six songs from the game, played with a full band.

The band consisted of:
Lyrics & Vocals: Howard Drossin, Tim P.
Guitar: Howard Drossin; Solos on 2 & 5: Philip Stevenson
Bass Guitar: Weird Guy
Drums: Philip Stevenson

The soundtrack was later released in the United States under the Sega Tunes label.

4) Lithuanian rock / rock'n'roll band called Roadkill

"We don't have any fucking idea what we are playing, l think today it's called rock'n'roll..."

5) Roadkill is an austrian underground Speed/Thrash-Metal Band from Graz. The band consists of three members, Peter (Töpe), Manuel and Phil.
 For more informations -> https://www.facebook.com/Roadkillsyou

6) Aussie rockers Roadkill featuring frontman Neil “Steel” Wilson releaded an album in 2016 'E X T I N C T'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Roadkill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.