There are multiple artists that go by the name Roam:

1) Roam (often stylized as ROAM) was a British pop punk band from Eastbourne, formed in 2012. The band consisted of vocalist Alex Costello, bass guitarist Matt Roskilly, guitarist and backing vocalist Alex Adam, guitarist Sam Veness, and drummer Miles Gill. The band released three albums, titled Backbone, Great Heights and Nosedives, and Smile Wide respectively. GHAN hit #20 on the UK Rock Album Charts. They have also released a number of EP's, titled No Common Ground, Head Down and Viewpoint respectively. They split up in 2022.

2) Born Nov. 9th ’87  in the island of The Philippines ROAM(Rene’ Endino) made her way to the states by the age of 12.  Always having an interest in mixing genres and bashing faces she’s sure to move an audience with the hardest sounds whether it be electro or hardcore.  At 20 she moved to LA where she got started out as a bedroom DJ hitting the stage within weeks.  When returning to Las Vegas she became a part of Outlaw Entertainment where she met White Ape of HCLV getting booked with over sea’s talents such as  Ruff neck, Miss twilight,DJ Delirium & Anger Fist..In the same year Matt Wilcox of technomoshpit records approached her with her originally produce track “murder 909”. presently  Roam is still hitting las vegas by storm supporting her local scene at Hard Rock Cafe, Area 170, & forte- known to be the vegas front leader of the las vegas hardcore movement. Recently she has taken on the collaboration of female artist known as  FEMCORE:ALLIANCE a movement to influence modern youth & encourage girls with  a less tits-more art attitude .  Roam has been branching her rage in several state such as Colorado and Mississippi. Expect big things from this Roaming artist you can also catch her at las vegas biggest art event,  every “first friday” where she leaves  the turntables and shows her world through canvas and paint.


3) ROAM  is also a three piece indie rock band from the eastern suburbs of Melbourne, Australia.
The band members are vocalist-guitarist Robbie Hallam, drummer Tyson Hutchison and guitarist Alex Hardingham.

4) Roam is a electronic music producer from Toronto, ON, fusing hip hop styling, R&B's pop sensibilities, and atmospheric UK garage. He is a member of Toronto's DSTRY Collective <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ROAM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.