Rob Clouth is a multidisisciplinary artist working in the fields of electronic music and computational sonics. He currently lives in Aineto, a remote town north of Barcelona. After his initial entrance into the experimental scene with expertly-crafted & innovative IDM, glitch expert Rob Clouth began experimenting with more dance floor inspired flavours. Infusing his previous IDM works with the aesthetics of techno, he created an intricate, emotive & driving sound which simultaneously expands the mind & moves the feet. Rob has also released music under the alias Vaetxh. Rob Clouth's motivations include searching for raw emotion amongst intricate musical structures, developing experimental audio software solutions and, in the broadest sense, rethinking the ways in how we interact with music and technology.Initially received as an IDM artist, his sound has evolved consistently over the years, with critically acclaimed excursions into techno, ambient and neoclassical. Today, he employs a range of influences, drawing upon research-based practices with a heavy dose of improvisation to forge microscopic textures rich with melody and harmony. A proficient software developer, he codes his own digital instruments in tandem with the music, an iterative cycle in which one feeds off the other. Featured heavily in Zero Point is a tool named Reconstructor, that automatically chops up and reassembles source sounds to form a target sound. Wielding this tool, he reconstructs his voice with designed sounds, fusing the organic flow of improvised beatboxing with the rich texture of field recordings, percussive samples or even the voices of others.

After a few years exploring the outer realms of dubstep as Vaetxh, Rob’s first EP under his own name arrived with 2012’s Cloud Complex on Traum Schallplatten. Fusing the glitchy aesthetic of his previous work with fragile melodies and techno rhythms, it signalled the merging of his detail-oriented production with multigenre, dancefloor-ready tracks. Two acclaimed 2014 releases on Barker’s Leisure System imprint - Clockwork Atom and Deep Field - expanded further on his interest in atypical structures and sweeping spatial arrangements, landing him a spot on Bleep’s best releases of the year. Seemingly complex scientific processes might suggest a challenging listen, but Rob’s music positions the listener firmly in the centre, encompassing moments of awe and affect amongst shifting rhythmic structures. By examining sound to a molecular level, he builds infinitely vast sonic spaces full of hidden details. Alongside contemporaries like Max Cooper, he is committed to conveying the beauty that lies within these processes. As a result, his music can be appreciated from multiple angles. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rob+Clouth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.