Robert Anthony Plant CBE (born 20 August 1948, West Bromwich, Staffordshire, England) is a British rock songwriter and singer famous for being the lead vocalist of one of the most influential bands of all time: Led Zeppelin. He is known for his powerful style and wide vocal range. After Led Zeppelin's breakup following the sudden death of drummer John Bonham in 1980, Plant pursued a successful solo career. Popular tracks from this period include "Big Log", "Tall Cool One", "In the Mood", and "I Believe". Throughout his career, he's been influenced by many styles such as blues, folk, 50s rock and roll, dance pop, and more.

In 1984, Plant formed a short-lived all-star retro rock group with musicians Jimmy Page (also of Led Zeppelin), Jeff Beck, and Phil Collins called The Honeydrippers. The band had a Top Ten hit with their song "Sea of Love", a remake of the Phil Phillips' chestnut. Plant's also notably performed with Page in the outfit Page & Plant.

Plant's love of the music of Morocco led him to a new collaboration called Robert Plant and the Strange Sensation.  The band's releases met with critical acclaim and numerous Grammy nominations. They completed a notable 2006 tour of Europe in September.

In 2007, Plant began recording and performing with American bluegrass star Alison Krauss. A duet album, Raising Sand, was released on 23 October 2007 on Rounder Records. The album, recorded in Nashville and Los Angeles and produced by T-Bone Burnett, met with enormous critical and commercial success. Tours have reached devoted audiences in multiple cities.

The year of 2010 proves to be yet another successful year for the lemon squeezer. During the summer, Plant will be reuniting with his old, Pre-Zep group, The Band Of Joy, for a tour of the southern and mid continental tour of the US.

In 2012 Robert Plant starts another band project going by the name Sensational Space Shifters releasing the live album Robert Plant Presents: Sensational Space Shifters. Along with Plant himself the band consists of Liam "Skin" Tyson, Justin Adams, Billy Fuller and John Baggot along with Dave Smith, Juldeh Camara and Patty Griffin. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Robert+Plant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.