Robert Görl is a German musician (drums,keyboards),songwriter and producer. Born in Munchen,Germany 1955.

He is most famous as a member of the group D.A.F. (Deutsch Amerikanische Freundschaft), which he became a part of in 1978 together with Gabi Delgado-Lopez.

They reached the charts with songs like "Der Mussolini", "Kebab Traume", and "Der Rauber und der Prinz", as well as huge success and two sell out tours with the album Alles Ist Gut. D.A.F. recieves a German Music Award for this album. 

In 1983 D.A.F. splits up.

As a solo artist Görl released his first album "Night Full of Tension" in 1983 on Mute Records.
On this album Annie Lennox (Eurythmics) collaborated on a couple of tracks (Charlie Cat & Darling Don`t Leave Me).
Robert Görl  had played drums on the Eurythmics album "In The Garden" in 1981. The link was Conny Plank. Both D.A.F. and Eurythmics
used Plank as a producer and the same studio in Cologne.

Robert Görl released the singles "Mit Dir" c/w "Beruhrt Verfuhrt"  and "Darling Don`t Leave Me" c/w "Eckhardt`s Party" and "Aist Wieder Da".

In 1986 Robert moves to New York to study one year at the Stella Adler Conservatory of acting. In the summer of -86 he met Gabi Delgado back in Germany, and they released the D.A.F. album "First Step to Heaven". But D.A.F. does not make a comeback.

From -87 til 1993: Görl works with a solo project together with some canadian musicians, but the material was never released. After this (in.88) Görl was in a heavy car accident and left the music scene for a while. He travelled around in asian countries (Nepal,India,Thailand and Bangladesh) and followed the Buddha tradition.

1994-1998: Robert returns to the music scene and Germany. In this period he produces four Solo albums for the Munich Techno-Label "Disco B",
and appears on stage again on the events Loveparade,Mayday and Universe.

1999: A long stay at a Monastery in Thailand.

2000: Görl and Delgado meets up to start the Comeback for D.A.F.

2003: The first comeback concert for D.A.F. at the Berlin-Loveparade. Robert and Gabi work hard on all fronts for D.A.F. and publish the album
"Funfzehn neue D.A.F. Lieder" (Fifteen new D.A.F. songs), and the single "Der Sheriff".

2004: Görl tours Europe with D.A.F. and work simultaneously on a new Solo album.

2005: D.A.F. splits up again.

2006: Robert wrote his first electronic symphony named "Dark Tool Symphony". 

2007: Release of "Dark Tool Symphony". In spring -07 Robert plays Live in Kyoto and Tokyo.
In September he is back in Japan and played Live at the WIRE 07 in Tokyo.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Robert+G%C3%B6rl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.