As a DJ team, Robosonic [Sacha Robotti + Cord Henning „Schall“ Labuhn] stand for electronic dance music with attitude. Playing alive [DJ+live mix on computer] or purely as DJs on the turntables, they perform in clubs, on festivals, fashion shows, dirty basements, afterhours and improvised locations of all sorts, worldwide.

As a team of producers, Robosonic deliver intelligent and multidimensional music to be played on dancefloor soundsystems as well as on kitchen ghettoblasters. The style they produce is undogmatic: drawing their influences from a bootlegger / mashup past, hip hop, funk and electronica, to create quirky techhouse and deep experimental techno, sometimes refered to as ‚storytelling techno‘ by the press.

As a creative and business team, Robosonic are running their own label DISKOMAFIA, managing everything from a&r to music to artwork concept to CI. An international creative network that communicates an artistic vision through artwork, painting, design and video helps the unconventional academics achieve their multitasking activities.

On DISKOMAFIA, Robosonic released the debut album „Sturm und Drang“ in November 2007 on CD &
MP3, getting great feedback, press reviews and support from DJs internationally.
The album took about a year to produce, write and design. The whole team put a lot of creativity and effort into it to make it a kind of ‘manifesto’ on how it perceives electronic dance music, and how they wanted to ‚package‘ this music as a cultural product.

Some album tracks also came out as vinyl maxis in 2007: „Yasmin“ with KOLETZKI & MEINDL and THE COCONUT WIRELESS remixes, as well as „Die Verwandlung“ with JESSE ROSE and CHRISTOPHER JUST remixes. In June 2008 another vinyl maxi with an album track was released on DISKOMAFIA: „Kaputt in Hollywood“ with DEADSET and SANTIAGO & BUSHIDO.

Since May 2008 - and their reunion in Berlin after a period of one half living in Buenos Aires, Argentina -
Robosonic is collaborating with their friends from the BERLIN MITTE INSTITUT [web TV show] to host
the monthly 3hour BERLIN KREUZBERG INSTITUT radio show, aired on Proton Radio, USA. The BKI
is showcasing DJ mixes and livesets of local and global talents in electronic dance music, with featured artist interviews. BKI guests so far included STYLE OF EYE, RIVA STARR, STEPHAN BODZIN, RODRIGUEZ JUNIOR, DEADSET and SANTIAGO & BUSHIDO...


Robosonic are:

Cord Henning Labuhn, born 1984 in Lüdenscheid, has produced and released hip-hop and breakbeat records since 2003 mostly on his own label Undercoverart under the pseudonym Schall. In Berlin he founded the imprint ,BrokenBootlegs‘ with Gaucho (and later also with DJ Shir Khan on board) whose releases sold around the world.
Years of DJ existence, studies in politics and sociology in Berlin, inspirational travelling and a longer approach to wisdom and love in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Sacha Robotti, born 1980 in Brussels, has produced and released electronic dance music since 2004 on his own imprint Diskomafia which is now a symbiotic-autonomous part of the label Undercoverart. The Italian / German polyglot studied and worked in Belgium, Scotland, Italy, Australia, the USA and Afghanistan before settling down in Berlin where he is now committing himself 100% to sound.
Years of DJ existence, classical cello education, studies in architecture and a Masters degree in Sound Studies at the Berlin University of the Arts. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Robosonic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.