Inspired by popular artists as far ranging as James Blake, Imogen Heap, Bat For Lashes and Stevie Nicks, Guernsey (but now London-based) singer-songwriter Robyn Sherwell is a name that has been on the lips of tastemakers since the start of the summer.

Signing to new label Birdland Records in 2013 after a couple of her YouTube cover videos (Ben Howard's "The Fear" and SBTRKT's "Hold On") came to the public's attention, Sherwell has since been working with acclaimed producer David Kosten (Everything Everything, Bat For Lashes) on a debut album. 

Its first single, the atmospheric, transportive and hook-filled "Love Somebody", was released in September as the lead track of an EP that also featured prior blog favourite, the delightfully blissed out "Low", and a mesmerising remix (of LS) from fast rising Glaswegian producer Turtle. 

This release captured the attention of publications such as DIY, Clash, Q, Indie Shuffle, HillyDilly, Pigeons and Planes and NME Magazine, as well as the ear of Lauren Laverne, who played the single regularly on her flagship morning show on BBC Radio 6. Notable support also came from Bella Union's Simon Raymonde, who supported both "Low" and "Love Somebody" on his radio shows on Amazing Radio and XFM.

Sherwell is clearly an artist whose music rests on emotion. Across ten sparkling tracks on the aforementioned LP, tales of hometown (island) glory, love, lust and heartbreak are shared, all wrapped in great hooks and delivered via her unique and enchanting vocal. At every turn, she displays a songwriting nous far beyond her twenty-something years. Summer 2014 saw her making festival appearances at The Great Escape, Pete The Monkey in France and FarmFestival in Somerset, culminating in a sold-out London headline show at The Islington to mark the EP release, and also a slot at Norwich Sound And Vision. 

New track "Islander", from her forthcoming EP, inspired by her youth in Guernsey, is a fiery, enthusiastic and defiant shout from the English Channel. With thumping brevity and an ear-worm of a chorus, “Islander” stridently confirms Sherwell’s pop-writing ability, and is sure to make even more people stand up and pay attention.

Her show at the Sebright Arms on January 8th sold out and January has also seen Robyn hit the top 10 most blogged artists in the world on Hype Machine. “Islander” has so far amassed 200,000 Spotify plays. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Robyn+Sherwell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.