There is more than one band going by the moniker 'Rocket':

(1) Rocket (all-girl rock band): When you think of Rocket, think of driving along an L.A. beach in an open-top, bright pink Cadillac. Rocket is a revolutionary concoction of fun, parties, bubblegum and beating hearts. Coquettishness-meets-bombast, kittens-meet-rattlesnakes; Rocket is the launching pad for a new generation of pop music.

The all-girl band mixes 60's girl group innocence with 70's decibel-damaging boulevard beat, combined with 80's glam wham swagger--A volatile combination that leaves one wondering what the results would be if the Shangri-Las crash landed onstage during an early Motley Crue gig.

Starting out as a threesome of Laurens, Rocket released their first album, "Too Hot to be Bothered," in 2005. Evolving into a five-piece rock 'n' roll circus later that year, their first-ever live show was a headlining, sold-out smash at the legendary Viper Room. The E.P., "Girls With Candy Hearts" followed in early 2006.

Since then, the girls have travelled coast to coast, honing their craft during the 2006 Van's Warped Tour, and during the spring of 2007 as direct support for Butch Walker. Rocket has also opened for the likes of Rancid, OK GO, Morningwood, The Sounds, Kill Hannah, The Honorary Title, The Dwarves, The Polysics and The Ark and has toured with SuicideGirls and The Lashes.

(2) Indie Rock band from  San Antonio, Chile formed in 2004 under the name Maybe Guilt is On Me. The original lineup consisted of  Mariano Hernandez, Rodrigo Saez, and Fabián Rosales. Starting as an experimental project with influences of The Get Up Kids, the band  composed several songs along the 2004 and 2005. In 2006, their lead guitarrist Felipe Fernández quits, and the band goes in a different direction searching for a warmer and acoustic sound incorporing the folk acoustic guitar as their primary instrument, changing their name to Rocket Science Project.

In 2007, with a new member in the keyboards, Ignacio Rosales (Nach del Río), they record two tracks with the independent label La Somba Records from Chile, produced by Pepe Lastarria and Cristobal Salóm. Later that year, they add a new guitarist Juan Manzor (Kamon) and change their name to simply Rocket.

Currently, Rocket is preparing their debut album with the producer Pepe Lastarria in Santiago, Chile.

Official Site  www.myspace.com/rocketsite

(3) Russian Rap Artist <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rocket">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.