Roger Sanchez (born on 1 June 1967, in Queens, New York) is one of the most popular commercial house DJs in recent years, who scored many hits in the European and World Charts. His production work has received critical acclaim by leading house DJ's worldwide. As well as being a DJ, he is the owner of the record label, Stealth Records. His most famous hit to date is Another Chance, which entered at #1 on the UK singles chart. The song was based on a sample of the first verse of Toto's song "I Won't Hold You Back". The song came off Sanchez' first album, First Contact.

The first decade of the new millennium has passed and house music pioneer Roger Sanchez continues to keep the beat and rock dance floors across the globe. The ‘Release Yourself’ empire is still a force to be reckoned with in it's 10th year of existence. This year Roger celebrates the pass of an incredible decade of house music, and the beginning of a new generation filled with innovative beats and mind blowing performances.

Born to Dominican Parents in Queens, Roger spent his younger years soaking up the musical influences that were the lifeblood of his home town. It was the diversity of these influences, from salsa, blues and soul to disco, rock and hip-hop, that solidified Roger's dedication to representing this spectrum of musical styles. Thus, Roger's sound is impossible to pigeon hole, refusing to fit the template of any one genre:

"I have always listened to a wide range of music, taking different influences from hundreds of styles. The diversity of the sounds I hear influence different lines of thought when I'm in the studio creating something new"

After leaving college to follow his music-filled heart, Roger's passion for DJing conquered his hometown, and the last days of the 1980s saw Roger spinning beats in the Big Apple's most notorious clubs. 1990 saw the S-Man catapulted into international limelight with his first hit Luv Dancin, released on the eminent Strictly Rhythm label under the first of many monikers Underground Solution

Roger's creative evolution through the rest of the decade yielded a string of hits, and whilst working under his Transatlantic Soul alias, Roger conceived the enduring legend Release Yourself. Born in 1996 through club smash single Release Yo Self, the brand has grown into a worldwide phenomenon that embodies Roger's deep belief in the liberty music can bring. Now an exclusive clubbing concept, a CD mix series, an IDMA winning podcast radio show that touches millions, and an annual residency in Ibiza that still dominates the scene, Release Yourself continues to gather momentum as one of the most recognized and seminal brands on the global scene today.

Roger has remixed superstars such as Chic, Daft Punk, Diana Ross and The Police, contributed to the soundtrack of Hollywood movie Blade, and founded 3 record labels before his beloved Stealth. Since forming his opus label "Stealth Records" in 2002, the recognition has continued to roll in. Even through the glare of his massive commercial success, the expanse of Roger's fame has neither diluted his outlook nor marred his creativity, and he remains a true champion of new music with one ear always pressed firmly to the underground. In one week alone Roger scored a trio of tracks in the top 25 Billboard Charts, but even after winning a Grammy in 2004  for Best Remixed Recording for his remix of Hella Good and establishing a global fan base of millions, the S-man remains grounded, making it clear that "Really, as always, I just do what I do and am grateful to be able to follow my heart."

2010 is a truly memorable year for Roger as he celebrates 10 years of his famous residency in Ibiza. This year Roger will as well release a new ‘Release Yourself’ compilation, all on Roger’s own Stealth label. For 10 years Roger Sanchez has dictated the tempo of the house music scene, bringing audiences up and coming artists that have grown to become big-time-players in the dance world. Even after 10 years Roger sees no reason to slow down as he looks forward to breaking barriers in house music for the next decade.

As well as remixing songs, he also hosts his own radio show called Release Yourself, the show is syndicated worldwide. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Roger+Sanchez">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.