Chicago Death Metal duo
Two recording dates in 2002. Pure Evil Incarnate. Incantation of DEATH.

Evil spawn of smashed souls, battered bodies and devoured corpses. Bone battered tendons torn, skin melted and fed to a putrid pile of blackened blood.

ROGUE DEMONS
eric yacula, mike standeven (mob)

Rogue Demons : Suffocate 
This song was the only song we actually wrote and planned out before playing it. We spent probaly half of the time we were together planning and practicing this song (about 3 hours). This masterpiece spans 3 different time signatures - starting things off is the fancy 7/8 time. Next we blast into 5/4 time, followed up with some heavy 4/4 time for the chorus headbanging. This was the only non-improv song we ever played together. Stick that in your bass drum mic hole. 

Rogue Demons : Rogue Demons 
The music of this Death Metal Anthem actually started out as the sound check for our recording day (also the second of two days we ever played together). This was the first thing we played (all improv). Vocals and other editing was done later. Lyrics were written by mob and yacula. 

Rogue Demons : I Dont Want To 
This song was edited down by several mintues. It was more messing around turned fast song. Lyrics by mob. Laughter is on the outtakes of this song. More improv Death Metal.

Rogue Demons : Cadaver 
Death Metal at its finest. Another improv death metal song written by mob and yacula. 

Rogue Demons : Chop You 
This song was one where we actually did the lyrics right after recording the song. Yacula sang these lyrics improv over our improv recording. Talk about talent, Yacula has it. Choppa Choppa Choppa you! 

Rogue Demons : Headless Children 
Mob is responsible for these lyrics. Lyrics recorded the same day as the music. A little bit of Chris Barnes influence here. Improv music, scribbled down lyrics since Mob cannot death-metal-freestyle like Yacula can. 

Rogue Demons : Stalker In The Night 
Another Yacula death-metal-freestyle stalking you til death. Improv Death Metal cant be any better than this (unless we actually practiced or played death metal more than two times). 

Rogue Demons : System 
Improv Death Metal instrumental. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rogue+Demons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.