Rolfe R. Kent (born 1963) is a British-born film score composer.

Rolfe Kent was born in St. Albans, Hertfordshire, England, UK, he has no formal musical training, but always loved sound and music, and at 12 decided he'd like to be a film scoring composer. By playing in a series of terrible bands (to whose awfulness he was a potent contributor) he did his film scoring career no good at all, so he stopped and wrote music for theatre instead, and then started composing for student films. 

He has now scored feature films in Hollywood and Europe successfully for a few years. With 30+ film credits to his name, Kent has worked multiple times for several directors including Alexander Payne (Election, Sideways, About Schmidt), Mark Waters (The House Of Yes, Mean Girls, Just Like Heaven), Richard Shepard (Mercy, Oxygen, Matador) and Jeff Nathanson (The Last Shot).

Kent received a Golden Globe nomination for "Sideways", and earned BMI Film Music Awards for "Legally Blonde", "Legally Blonde 2", and "Freaky Friday". 

Amongst the many other films for which Kent served as composer are "40 Days and 40 Nights," "Kate and Leopold," "Nurse Betty," starring Renee Zellweger, "The Wedding Crashers" starring Vince Vaughan and Owen Wilson, "Thank You For Smoking" starring Aaron Eckhart and "Mercy", as well as the Showtime television show "Dexter". He is currently developing a musical theatre piece for which he is also the lyricist. 

He is still passionate about music, and fascinated by different instruments and their sonic qualities. Some of the scores demonstrate this interest: About Schmidt has the Chinese Erhu, Freaky Friday is dominated by Japanese Taiko Drums, Mean Girls features a full African Choir, and The Jury features the haunting sound of the Armenian Duduk. Each film score is an opportunity to explore a new soundscape, to create evocative emotional and melodic music in new intriguing ways, and to make bold and powerful musical statements that capture the heart of the movie.

Rolfe currently lives in Los Angeles, and remains an enthusiastic traveler, and occasional resident of Black Rock City.

http://www.rolfekent.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rolfe+Kent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.