Rollerball may refer to one of the following:

1) A band from Portland, Oregon. Fourteen albums in and fifteen years deep, Rollerball, bring their outward bound song structures laced with dark jazz and noise funk back to the US via Portland label, North Pole Records. A living / breathing recording ethic, five European tours, constant West Coast presence, and underground cred that can’t be beat, Rollerball, is an established institution influencing what bands sound like in Portland, Oregon and throughout the world. Two Feathers is Rollerball’s first domestic release since 2005’s Catholic Paws/Catholic Pause. The past two albums, Rollerball and Ahura were available only on avant super label, Wallace Records based in Italy, a country that has long championed Rollerball. 
Hard to describe and impossible to pin down, Rollerball, has been praised throughout their storied career by The Wire, Pitchfork, Brainwashed, Blow Up, Fake Jazz, The Oregonian, Terrascope, Mercury, Stranger, etc., and played on radio stations around the world. They have released music on Roadcone, Cochon, Silber, Jalopy Grotto, Nillacat, Pacific Wonderland, and Felina y magia in the States and Bar la muerte, Wallace, and Hysm in Italy. Rollerball has been compared to Sun Ra, New Order, Cereberus Shoal, JOMF, Califone, and Can.
In 2012 they have released an album "Murwa Mbwa" under slightly new name - Rllrbll 


2) Rollerball is a rock band from Queensland, Australia formed in 1998 and named after the 1975 movie. They have released four full length albums, SuperStructure, Oversize, Submarine and a European self-titled album which was a compilation based on their first two eps. http://www.rollerballrock.com/

3) Alias of Trance producers Above & Beyond, who released the sole track Albinoni in 2003.

4) American experimental/post-rock band

5) Italian avant-prog/jazz band

6) A Italian Heavy Metal Band (Florence, Tuscany). They formed in the early '80s, and released their first official offering, 1983's Outlast The Game EP on Disco Mix records. After this, they released a demo and another EP in 1985. Maxx Bell - Vocals, Fabrizio Ricciardelli - Guitar, Jey Key - Bass, Peter - Drums. For more information on the band, check out their page on http://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Rollerball/35706

7) Rollerball was a pre-Elton Motello group involving Alan Ward and Mike Butcher (Jet Staxx). According to Mike Butcher "Rollerball was just a one off, with me on guitar, Alan on vocals and 2 studio assistants, Alex on bass and his brother Pascal on drums. Pascal also played the drums on the Jet Staxx singles. We never played a gig and I don't think we even got many radio plays." "Savage Eyes" and B-side "Lay You Down", both Ward/Butcher compositions, were recorded late 1976 in their adopted home of Brussels, Belgium (the mecca of pseudo punk), with a production credited to Rollerball as a band. It seems that it was only released in Holland on CNR Records in the first half of 1977 with the Dutch copies also being distributed in Belgium. It was recently reissued on Sing Sing records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rollerball">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.