“In an age where hype and industry politics produce bands of unworthy overnight success, Romeo Must Die are the antidote; A backlash that proves once and for all that it is the extreme music fans themselves who decide who succeeds and who fails, and no one else.”

Rome Must Die are a five piece Metal band from the south of England. They formed in 2007 from the ashes of Stampin' Ground, a band that the world press labelled a veteran force and the UK’s most credible and successful underground band of the last decade.

Their proficient pedigree caused immediate industry attention when the band completed two sold-out UK tours and received rave reviews from both the press and audience. A debut release soon followed;“Defined By Enemies” - A 7 track EP produced by Scott Atkins and was released on UK independent label IN AT THE DEEPEND RECORDS (Gallows, Suicide Silence, Sylosis) and is still to date the fastest selling record on the label.

3 months after the release the “Defined By Enemies” music video claimed rotation on Scuzz TV which secured RMD the support slots for numerous credible tours including the 20 year re-union tour with BIOHAZARD.

Their debut album 'Hardships In Season' was released free on the cover of Metal Hammer magazine in March 2011 to an audience of over 60,000 and to great critical review.
It has been described as "49 minutes of throat stampin’, eye-gauging intensity, the likes of which will delight real fans of heavy music".

The official full recording, remastered in a dual digipack along with the EP 'Defined by Enemies'  was released on 2nd May 2011 whilst on a 13 date UK tour with The Defiled.

Touring the UK to an overwhelmingly well receiving audience, Romeo Must Die have built on the solid underground following they gained from touring with the likes of Biohazard, TEXTURES, Sylosis, EVILE, as well as their own headline tours of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia, Greece, Holland, Belgium.

Romeo Must Die play with all the confidence, conviction and power of a veteran force that is fuelled with all the experience, hunger and passion that makes them evidently shine amongst their counterparts. Their prowess as both musicians and songwriters is a thrilling, defiant metallic kick in the teeth.

Romeo Must Die are eager to show the world that this is a band that has fire in its breath and a sting in it’s tail so ferocious that it will be impossible not to stop and take notice.

In October 2012 the band split up after fulfilling everything they set out to accomplish. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Romeo+Must+Die">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.