He is one of the smartest – don’t trust his smile and his charme, this guy knows exactly how to handle it! Ron Flatter is a producer, DJ and the good guy in every crew. From Halle with Love – this could be the message.

For more than the last decade, Ron Flatter has been enriching the house and techno landscape with his own direct and energetic productions and warm, groove-driven DJ sets. Initially the young German was a keen skateboarder and hip hop fan, but the lure of dance music soon pulled him in and he has never looked back since.

Over the years he has turned out a high number of consistently excellent and innovative tracks that are filled with unique sound design, fresh melodies and plenty of dance floor drive. He has done so on labels like Pour La Vie, Still vor Talent and Traum Schallplatten, always evolving with each new release and exploring fresh new ground. Plenty of taste making talents ardor the world have all played his productions in the past, and recent cuts like “Stupid World” and “Desert” have taken DJs by storm: they combine heavy drums with light, emotive pianos and well-timed breaks that thrill and surprise just when you least expect.

As a DJ, too, Ron is a skilled selector who knows exactly what to drop and when to drop it. He has played in every major club and festival in Europe in the last decade and holds down a key residency in his hometown of Halle (Saale), Germany. It is there that he likes to interact with crowds, read their needs and play to their passions, mixing up deep house and techno and plenty in between.

After more than 26 EPs and singles, a fine 2011 full length in Growth Rings that really showcased the breadth of his style and more than 50 remixes, all of which have seen Ron put his special stamp on a cultured selection of sounds, Ron Flatter is well and truly a global electronic player who wins big with each and every project. Always releasing and headlining on a regular basis, Ron Flatter’s beats are the beats that matter.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ron+Flatter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.