Artist and innovative bassist, composer and producer, Ronnie Hudson, has for decades made his mark in the world of music. With passion and artistry, Ronnie has skillfully crossed over many musical genres from R&B and funk to hip hop, smooth jazz and gospel.

Reared in Washington D.C., Ronnie began developing his craft at the early age of sixteen, playing bass in the band of his friend and mentor, Charles Harrington. He eventually started his own band Chapter One, With Al Johnson, after playing with Chuck Brown and the Soul Searchers.

He later moved to Memphis Tennessee to become one of Stax Records renowned recording bassist. At Stax Records Ronnie recorded and toured with Isaac Hayes on his Grammy winning sound track for 70'hit movie, Shaft, and multi platinum, Black Moses. He also recorded and co-produced super hits with good friends, Rufus Thomas on the Breakdown, and Luther Ingram on If (Loving you is wrong I don't want to be right.) These projects name just a few of the major hits with which Ronnie was involved.
Artist and innovative bassist, composer and producer, Ronnie Hudson

Ronnie Hudson blazed his own trail in the hip-hop genre with multi platinum recording, West coast poplock. Dr.Dre and many other artists including 2pac with California Love and Snoop Dawgg with the Poplock 2 have covered this imaginative and versatile song. If you are a gamer you will recognize this song featured in the video game, Grand Theft Auto.

Some of Ronnie Hudson's best work is yet to be heard. He will soon be releasing the Gospel CD, Signs of the times. That he has dedicated to his late mother Kathleen Goss and to all mothers, and friends. Like many, Ronnie has a passion for Gospel music and it is beautifully expressed in this moving and personal journey of the soul. He hopes this CD will capture the Stellar Award, as Signs of the Times is truly that of the present as well as the future.
Ronnie Hudson - West Coast Poplock

Ronnie will keep on writing, recording and performing with his nine piece band, The Street People, for many years to come. Music is as much apart of Ronnie Hudson as his breath: hence music lovers of every generation will continue to be moved and inspired by this pioneering artist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ronnie+Hudson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.