http://roomfulofteeth.bandcamp.com/album/roomful-of-teeth
https://www.facebook.com/RoomfulOfTeeth

Roomful of Teeth is a vocal octet dedicated to re-imagining singing in the 21st century. Through study with vocal masters from non-classical traditions the world over, Roomful of Teeth continually expands their vocabulary of singing techniques and, through an on-going commissioning project, invites today’s brightest composers to create a repertoire without borders. Winners of the 2010 American Prize, two-time TimeOut New York Critic’s Pick and featured ensemble in the 2011 Merkin Hall Ecstatic Music Festival, the group brings audiences to their feet with vibrant performances of all-new music.

Founded in 2009 by Brad Wells, Roomful of Teeth consists of eight classically trained vocalists. At their annual residency at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art (Mass MoCA), the ensemble has studied Tuvan throat singing, belting and pop techniques, yodeling, Inuit throat singing and, in their summer 2012 residency, the group will coach with master singers from Sardinia and Korea. Commissioned composers include Rinde Eckert, Judd Greenstein, Caleb Burhans, Merrill Garbus (of tUnE-yArDs), William Brittelle and Sarah Kirkland Snider. Their first recording will be released on New Amsterdam Records in 2012.

A Roomful of Teeth concert feels less like a classical new music performance and more like an world music rock concert high wire act. Or perhaps just something completely different. A student at a recent college performance raved: It was no doubt one of the best concerts I’ve ever been too; I was blown away by the singers and felt like I learned something new with every piece.

Roomful of Teeth is available for performances, master classes with singers or choral conductors, reading sessions with student composers, and demonstrations with voice classes. They are experienced performing for audiences of all ages. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Roomful+of+Teeth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.