There are 3 groups with the name Roots.

1) Roots were a short-lived band comprising Barney Rachabane (alto), Dennis Mpale (trumpet), Duke Makasi (tenor), Sipho Gumede (bass), Peter Morake (drums) and Jabu Nkosi (organ). Replace Jabu Nkosi with Abdullah Ibrahim, add Basil Coetzee on sax and you have the group that recorded the seminal African Herbs LP under the direction of Abdullah Ibrahim.

Roots are often cited as a key strand in the development of an indigenous afro jazz sound that links the Drive, the Pelican Club house band under Dick Khoza, Spirits Rejoice and later Sakhile. The liner notes (repeated below) make reference to the public performance diffculties of the times, something well noted by David Coplan in "In Township Tonight". There was nowhere left to perform this kind of music in the late seventies.

From the original liner notes: "Within two months of its formation, the group has already got down to composing and recording this LP. Barney Rachabane on the alto and Dennis Mpale the trumpet master are the backbone of Roots. These two have played with the greats, such as Mackay Davashe and Gordon Mfanda who were both nipped in their buds by an untimely death. Duke Makasi plays the tenor sax, Sipho Gumede is on bass, Peter Morake on the drums and Jabu Nkosi on the organ, The group plays Rock Jazz with a local sound. Their music takes one back to Dorkay House jam session days which are now no more. They play in private homes and intend making more recordings."

2) Roots was a 1990's jazz group with Arthur Blythe, Benny Golson, Buster Williams, Chico Freeman, Don Pullen, Ed Thigpen, Idris Muhammad, Kirk Lightsey, Nathan Davis, Sam Rivers, Santi Debriano and Tommy Campbell.

3) The UK's foremost Christian Electronic Producer, Dj and Remixer.

Roots began producing in 2009, heavily influenced by minimal dubstep and uk garage. Through the combination of a passion for creating music and a love for God, Roots became the fresh new expression of christian music in early 2012. His style very much reflects his original influences; dark, underground and melancholic. Despite relatively recent beginnings, Roots has had much appreciation for his work, remixing the likes of LZ7, Trip Lee and Parachute Band as well as supporting Golddigger, Cyba-X, Navig8or (of 29th Chapter) and more in live performance. The direct influences on Roots' sound come from the underground electronic music scene in the UK - post dubstep, uk garage, future garage and house as well as drum & bass, juke, techno and hiphop. His wider influences range from classic motown, reggae, RnB and indie to 80's electro pop, folk, 90's hiphop and the entire scale of electronic music. 
Roots' music is entirely inspired by his belief and love for Christ, and this is reflected in all of his music. Roots has remixed and produced extensively, and in effort to stay fresh and relevant, is continually looking to work with new artists and combine new styles with his own. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Roots">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.