There are 3 bands that go by the name Roper.

1. Roper is a Christian Pop-Punk band formed in Denver, Colorado. The band consists of Reese Roper (former singer of Five Iron Frenzy) providing the vocals, Jonathan Byrnside (Lead Guitar), Jonathan Till (Bass), Stephen Till (Rhythm Guitar) and Nick White (Drums). In the early summer  of 2005, Stephen Till left the band, and was replaced by Matt Emmett.

Roper's first album, Brace Yourself for the Mediocre, was produced before the band was officially together. All songs on the album with the exception of "Day of Pigs" and "You're Still The One" were written by Reese Roper, Masaki Liu, and Ethan Luck. Because of the incomplete state of the band at the time of the album's release, the only current member appearing on the CD is Reese Roper. As a result, the album features many additional musicians such as Frank Lenz (Drums), Elijah Thomson (Bass), Phil Bennett (Organ), Bob Schiveley (Guitar), Masaki Liu (Guitar), Jason White (Additional Drums), Ethan Luck (Guitar), and many additional vocalists.

The band has disbanded.  Roper has issued a statement regarding the status of the band. "What happened to Roper? Is it dead? - Yes. Roper was a project put together by 5minutewalk records. We had a falling out with them, and are too lazy to start over again. Everyone has real jobs now, and although we miss seeing you all, we are just going to let it die. Unless you are a record company executive that wants to give us an enormous signing bonus and not make us tour"(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roper_%28band%29)


2. Irish metal act Roper, from Limerick City, which first appeared on the scene in 2002, are twins Brian O’Brien (guitar/vox) and Conor O’Brien (bass), Brian Meaney (drums) and Bryan Griffin (guitar). The band won the Miller Strat Band of the Year competition in 2005 and were finalists in the Whelan’s Brave New Stage 05. They were also considered by many to be the most entertaining act in the final of the 2006 National Student Music Awards.

Roper, whose sound is rooted in metal but has traces of funk and groove, opened the first ever Irish date for Mudvayne with American Headcharge in June 2005 where guitarist Greg Tribett commented on how refreshing it was to have a good opening act for a change! Roper have produced a unique sound, described by HOTPRESS as "a whirlwind of sonic delights", winning fans in eventhe most unlikely audiences with their distinctive style of high energy potent melodic metal.

www.roper.ie

3. Roper is a 4 piece post-punk band from Sheffield, UK.

www.myspace.com/roperuk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Roper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.