Rosalía Vila Tobella, known mononymously as Rosalía (stylized in all caps), is a Spanish singer and songwriter. After discovering Spanish folk music at an early age, Rosalía attended Taller de Músics and graduated from the Catalonia College of Music with honors by virtue of her collaborative cover album with Raül Refree, Los Ángeles (2017) and the baccalaureate project El Mal Querer (2018), which is co-produced by El Guincho and mixes modern interpretations of flamenco with pop and urban music. Spawning singles like "Malamente - Cap.1: Augurio", the album caught the attention of the Spanish general public, and was released to universal critical acclaim. Recipient of the Latin Grammy Award for Album of the Year and listed in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time, El Mal Querer started the ascent of Rosalía into the international music scene.

Her first international hit single was her 2019 collaboration with J Balvin, "Con Altura", a reggaeton track that marked Rosalía's journey to urbano music. Selling over seven million copies, it was named one of the best songs of the year by Billboard and Pitchfork, Best Urban Song by the Latin Recording Academy and spawned her signature lyric and nickname "La Rosalía". She later collaborated with other musicians such as Bad Bunny, Ozuna, Arca and Travis Scott, achieving multiple accolades and breaking many records. Her third studio album, Motomami, was released in March 2022.

Throughout her career, Rosalía has accumulated nine number-one singles in her home country. She has also won a Grammy Award, eight Latin Grammy Awards, three MTV Video Music Awards, an MTV Europe Music Award, two UK Music Video Awards and two Premio Ruido awards, among others. In 2019, Billboard gave her the Rising Star Award for "changing the sound of today's mainstream music with her fresh flamenco-influenced pop", and she became the first Spanish-singing act in history to be nominated for Best New Artist at the Grammys. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rosal%C3%ADa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.