Rosae Crucis born in 1990, from an idea of masterminds Andrea Magini and Igor
Baccei.
They began rehearsing and writing material along with vocalist Giuseppe
"Ciape" Cialone, Manuel Timperi on bass and Giordano Bimbi as drummer;
after a long period experimenting their sound, ranging from doom to heavy metal, from
thrash to death metal and more extreme and obscure sound, with influences from
Mercyful Fate, Death SS/Paul Chain, Candlemass, Rage, Grave Digger, Cirith Ungol,
Manilla Road, and inspired by history, esoteric literature, horror movies and
religious myths, they released their first demo "Il Re del Mondo" in 1993,
wich gained very good press reviews and spread through the italian underground scene
becoming a most-wanted record among metal fans thanks to its well-structured songs
and the particularly inspired lyrics, in Italian language.
After this release they played a large number of live gigs, wich contributed in
increasing their fame in the scene; at that time bass player Manuel Timperi left the
band and was replaced by Mario Ferruzzi, who stayed until the release of their second
demo, Fede Potere Vendetta, in 1997. Mario dropped the band due to his life's
commitments and Massimiliano Salvatori stepped up, recording the bass for this demo,
thus remaining in the band for almost ten years. Fede Potere Vendetta was the answer
to the detractors who judged Rosae Crucis dead, after a difficult period during which
Igor, Manuel and, at last Mario had left the band for the most different reasons; it
is a record where blood and hate melt the steel, straighter than the previous demo,
more power-oriented and extremely epic, inspired by the ideal of never giving up and
from the books of Robert Howard. At this time they decided to have the band's logo
tattooed on their shoulders, to witness the purpose of enduring their battle against
the "false" and to begin a new era for Rosae Crucis.
This era begun with the live gigs supporting Fede Potere Vendetta, where crowds were
enthusiastic yet no label seemed interested in an Italian-language-singing band.
After releasing a promo for labels only and getting answers like "this is good,
but if you could do in English..." they recorded, in 2000, the promo titled
"Bran Mak Morn", the first record without Giordano on drums, replaced by
Mirko Lai, and the first work with english lyrics (not to mention the old songs
written in the 90/92 period, never published); it was a four-tracks of a more
extensive work based on the novel "The Worms of the Earth" by Robert
Howard, a persistent inspiration in the lyrics of the band. This promo gained them a
contract for their official debut album, but Mirko left the band for personal
reasons, so they were without a drummer and with the recording studio already booked;
at this point Giuseppe Orlando from Novembre took them out of this wicked situation
sitting behind the drums and recording a superb drumming performance, so fine that he
played also some live gigs with Rosae Crucis in the aftermath, for example in the gig
with Manilla Road, Doomsword and Battle Ram in 2002.
Finally "The Worms Of The Earth" was out on Scarlet Records, and gained
very good reviews in Italy and Europe as well as in Japan, were it has been
distributed with a personal version of Cirith Ungol's "Death Of The Sun" as
a bonus track.
After an extensive search they found Piero Arioni as the new drummer, brought forth
by old friend Tiziano Marcozzi who had recently joined the band in the role of axeman
beside Andrea; with them they performed live in important gigs and festivals such as
Agglutination Festival (Italy, 2003) or Headbangers Open Air (Germany, 2004) together
with bands like Virgin Steele, Pino Scotto's Firetrails, Teathres Des Vampires,
Adramelch, Brocas Helm, Hirax, plus countless gigs with bands like Novembre,
Stormlord, Enemynside, Hyades and also they recorded some cover versions for various
tributes ("Pleasure Slave" for Manowar tribute, "The Fires of
Mars" for Manilla Road Tribute).
After a long period of silence and few live dates, in 2007 Max Salvatori left the
band and is replaced by Daniele "KK" Cerqua, a band's long time friend, and
they recorded four songs to be part of the "Kingdom Undead" project, an
album that foresees the destiny of humanity overwhelmed by zombies, inspired by
writings like Richard Matheson's "I am legend", Max Brooks' "World War
Z" and "The Zombie Survival guide", as well as John Carpenter's
movies.
During the recording of Kingdom Undead they got in touch with Jolly Roger Records, in
the person of Antonio Keller, who offered a deal to re-record and re-issue the band's
first two demos; recordings for "Il Re Del Mondo" started almost
immediately in the band's studio, and finally the first of two has been published in
September 2008, in CD, Vynil, and in limited editions for collectors along with
patches, shirt and red vynil. This has given Rosae Crucis the opportunity to engrave
their music in a new and more powerful sound, supported by the recording technology
available at present time, and enhanced by fifteen years of musical experience.
The band played at Total Metal Festival 2008 in Bari (Italy) alongside with Deicide,
Schizo and Hatesphere, and is currently working on the new "Fede Potere
Vendetta", to be issued in spring 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rosae+Crucis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.