Rosemary Fairweather is a dream/alt pop artist whose work has received support from the likes of Zane Lowe on Beats 1, The FADER, Stereogum, The Hype Machine Team, Indie Shuffle, The Line of Best Fit, and The 405 among many more.

"What's up with Toronto man...home to some remarkable musicians, I mean do we really have to rattle off the checklist of late, unreal. If you don't know then you should go do your research and find that music cause it's gonna make you happy and then put this one right on the very top...the artist is called Rosemary Fairweather, 23 years old from Toronto in Canada. A lot of support from the likes of Stereogum, Line of Best Fit, other friends of ours like The 405 and Indie Shuffle...so so good." - Zane Lowe, Beats 1

“Trippy, catchy music swathed in gauzy, stunned emotion…Fairweather's breathy vocals conduct the track to a rising excitement, housed in an intimate and ghostly disco.” - The FADER

"A beautiful brand of indie pop with an infectiously groovy shimmer." - Stereogum

"Fairweather puts us under a spell.. instantly infectious, overall entrancing...'MTV' is a beautiful ode to the songstress' energizing lyricism" - EARMILK

“With a pixie persona and a DIY attitude, Rosemary Fair-weather is a potential successor to the crown of dreamy, high pitched pop currently held by fellow Canadian Claire Boucher of Grimes fame. Fairweather is definitely more reserved but her songwriting and the intricacy of her soundscapes makes her just as powerful a force.” - The Line of Best Fit

"We at The 405 would be hard pressed to name a more promising, exhilarating singer-songwriter than Rosemary Fairweather…on top of making beautiful and poignant songs, Fairweather is proving herself to be quite prolific.” - The 405

“A giddy whirlwind of indie dream-pop.” - Indie Shuffle <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rosemary+Fairweather">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.