Rose Kemp (born in Carlisle, UK on 11 December 1984) is an English singer and guitarist who performs in a variety of genres, including folk, stoner rock and doom metal. She is the daughter of Maddy Prior and Rick Kemp of the folk rock band Steeleye Span.

Rose Kemp began her singing career performing live with Steeleye Span while still in her teenage years. This led to her being invited to contribute vocals to several albums by various folk artists. In 1996 she and Maddy sang with The Carnival Band on their "Carols at Christmas" CD. In 2002 Park Records released the a cappella folk album "Bib and Tuck" by Maddy Prior and the Girls, a trio comprised of Maddy Prior, Rose Kemp and Abbie Lathe. Rose wrote, and sang lead vocals on, several of the album's tracks. Rose's first solo album "Glance", an acoustic pop record, was released on Park Records in 2003. Rose subsequently toured with The Oyster Band as part of The Big Session, appearing with them across the UK and Europe and Nigeria. 

2004 saw a considerable change in the direction of Rose's musical output. She recorded a mini-album, originally entitled "The Free to Be Me EP" but later renamed simply "Mini-Album", at Warehouse Studios in Oxford with members of The Fourers. The new recording was very much a rock record, with Rose playing electric guitar and taking charge of the arrangements and production for the first time in her career, which she has stated has taken some getting used to, given that she is not used to that. Rose signed an album deal with One Little Indian Records in July 2005, and recorded her second full length album, "A Hand Full of Hurricanes", at studios in Bristol and Cardiff with producer Charlie Francis. This album was released in February 2007. She spent much of the time since its recording touring the UK and Europe. A new studio album, "Unholy Majesty" was produced by Chris Sheldon and was released on September 1st, 2008. In 2010 Rose announced a new three-track LP titled "Golden Shroud", with a provisional release date set for November.

Rose also performs with SJ Esau and Max Milton as part of the experimental, often improvisational pop trio Jeremy Smoking Jacket. In February 2006 Rose joined an instrumental Post-rock band called Snakes on a Plane as their lead guitarist. Originally a five piece, second guitarist Matt Williams aka Team Brick left and the band changed their name to VILNA, after a piece of music by the French band Weidorje. The four piece, whose other members are Joe Garcia, James King and Alex Bertram-Powell gradually moved into more progressive / doom metal territory. Although VILNA ceased to be in 2007, Joe Garcia and James King are now in Rose's band and played on the 2008 album "Unholy Majesty".

Discography:
Carols at Christmas (LP/1996/Park Records PRKCD45) - as 'Rosie Kemp singing with The Carnival'
Unholy Majesty (LP/2008/One Little Indian Records)
Unholy Majesty (VINYL LP/Aurora Borealis Records)
Glance (LP/2003/Park Records)
Mini-Album (EP/2004/Self Release)
Now We Are Dead (and Other Stories) (EP/2005/Enormous Corpse-Fact Fans) - as 'Jeremy Smoking Jacket' with SJ Esau and Max Milton
Violence (7"vinyl single/2006/One Little Indian Records)
A Hand Full of Hurricanes (LP/2007/One Little Indian Records)

Official webpages:
http://www.rosekemp.info
http://www.indian.co.uk/rosekemp
http://www.myspace.com/rosekemp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rose+Kemp">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.