Influences: black, trash, progressive, heavy, gothic
The band was formed in September 2004 under the name “Skollium” by Carlos Mora (bass guitar), Ricardo Mora (vocals), Bosco Lacayo (guitar), Esteban Monge (drums) and Cesar “Legion” Diaz (guitar). At first, the band lacked a defined gender; though, influenced mainly by Heavy, Trash and Hardcore Metal. Later on, in 2005, due to personal reasons the original line-up was modified: Juan “Sadiash” Gallardo replaced Bosco Lacayo, “Legion” replaced Ricardo Mora in the vocals and the band remained conformed by only 4 members. From this point forward the band’s name changes to Rotten Souls and a new path of a heavier, more elaborate Metal is taken. In addition, the members adopt their aliases, clothing and Black Metal influence. In early 2006, due to personal reasons and differences of goals, Esteban “Morty” Monge and Carlos Mora abandon the band, leaving it with 2 members and on the brink of dissolution. Several unsuccessful attempts to get a new bassist and drummer were performed in the subsequent 3 months and by the end of July 2006 Jhon “Archangel” Meneses (ex- Drama Sade) takes on the drums; Jose “Agramon” Torres fills up the bassist spot and the band adds keyboard player Jorge “Necros Animmus” Drucker (ex-Drama Sade’s guitar). Hereby, the band defines itself as a Melodic Black Metal with influences from Trash, Death, Gothic and Progressive Metal. Makeup and garments are included during the band’s live performances and the band debuts almost 2 months after (including 2 new songs written during that period) in the Eugene O’Neil Theater, competing against 40 other bands in the “Metal Fusion 2006” contest. The band makes it to a second round and wins the 2nd Place in the competition, which included the recording of an album. The band started performing in different fests and events within and outside of the metropolitan area, gaining the approval of the highly-demanding Tico metal audience. The band starts working on new songs, embedding a mystical, spiritual and even atmospheric ambience that embraces and transports listeners to past eras full of drama and occultism. 

FACEBOOK: www.facebook.com/pages/Rotten-Souls/121672134516973?v=wall
MYSPACE: www.myspace.com/rottensoulscr
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rotten+Souls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.