Rotting Souls is a death metal band from Columbus, Ohio. Originally formed in 1989, the band was focused on writing original music that would rise above the level of heaviness of most of the metal bands at the time. 
     The original lineup of Brad Arnold on drums, Tommy Justice on bass/vocals, Frank Anelick on lead guitar and Mike Gill on rhythm guitar proved to be quite creative. Rotting Souls was influenced by such groups as Slayer, Metallica, Iron Maiden, Rigor Mortis, D.R.I., S.O.D., Testament, Exodus, etc. Although influenced by earlier metal, thrash, and hardcore, the Souls were more interested in writing death metal  music similar to Morbid Angel, Bolt Thrower, Napalm Death, Carcass and Obituary. 
     The band began playing shows in 1990 and used the money they earned to finance the recording of two demo tapes. Neither tape was ever officially released due to the band members’ disapproval of the final production.
      The Souls continued to write increasingly intricate tunes dealing with the subjects of eternal damnation, the horrors of war, satanism, and various other Tolkien-inspired, mystical/occult topics. Despite the fact the band could not find a decent studio to record in, things were going well and the band was building a good following by playing live.
     In 1992, the band split up, due to personal issues. All 4 members went on to play in other groups.
In 2006, Frank, Brad and Mike got together to jam, just for fun. They had unwittingly released the Souls from their crypt! Realizing the beast never died, the trio began to write and play regularly – in their own studio. 
      In 2009, the Rotting Souls began recording new material for the "A Brief Return" EP, which is scheduled for release in 2011. The music is extremely heavy death metal with elements of grind and groove.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rotting+Souls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.