Rotting was a Canadian brutal death metal band that formed in 1992 and disbanded in 2005. Throughout the band's existence, they've been featured in international print magazines such as Pit, Brave Words & Bloody Knuckles, and Unrestrained! as well as many indie-zines.

Rotting played several mini-tours of the United States and participated in music festivals such as Milwaukee Metalfest, Ohio Deathfest and others. In late 1996, the band toured across Canada with Oppressor and Gorguts

Over their career, Rotting has shared the stage with popular metal acts such as Suffocation and Dying Fetus, Cannibal Corpse, Cradle of Filth, Woods of Ypres, and Kittie. Ex-Cannibal Corpse guitarist Jack Owen has been spotted in zines sporting a Rotting Human Race Liquidation t-shirt.

Rotting was formerly signed to United Guttural Records and remained on their roster until the label's demise in 2003. In 2003, The Forgotten (demos + 2 studio tracks recorded in 2002) was released with artwork by Studio-Sho from Japan on a one-album deal with CDN Records from Canada.

The band disbanded in 2005 due to lack of time and interest by the members. Bassist Jeff went into the wrestling industry under the persona "Chris Garvin", vocalist Korey started a mailorder & retail shop, The Catacombs, a seller of official band merchandise which also owns rights to Rotting's merchandise.

In 2000, the band recorded The Original Christ Crusher with Roger Beaujard of Mortician. The album is currently unreleased. The track "Stomped to Death" appears on the re-issue of Crushed, released in 2007.

In 2009, Korey and Mike formed Canadian death metal band, Burning Caskets; Mike was unable to commit to the band and left the group in 2010.
The band (featuring Korey on vocals) released To Burn a False Prophet.
In 2012, Korey and Burning Caskets drummer Dan Harrison formed a slam metal band with friend and guitarist Adam Currie - http://www.sewerslam.com

Rotting's lyrics primarily focus on anti-religion, horror and angst.

Discography:
Drown in Rotting Flesh  (Demo Tape) - Recorded @ Signal To Noise Studios in Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Produced by Rotting and Rob Sanzo 1995

The Forgotten Demo  - A compilation of demo tapes, 1992 - 1995; Recorded @ Various studios from 1992 - 1995 

Crushed - Recorded @ Sonic Pineapple Studios Newmarket, Ontario, Canada (1996) Produced by Rotting, Jeff Laycock, and Pete Osbourne Released in 1998 on United Guttural Records

The Original Christ Crusher (unreleased) - Recorded @ Roger's house Produced by Rotting and Roger Beaujard 2000

The Forgotten (compilation) - Tracks 1 -7 from "Human Race Liquidation" Demo 1995 Tracks 8 - 11 from "Christ Crusher" Demo 1993 Tracks 12 and 13 from 2002; Album cover by Toshihiro Egawa (Studio Sho) 

Crushed (Reissue) - Pull the Plug originally released on The Forgotten demo; Stomped to Death previously unreleased; Homosexual Grave Robber recorded live @ The Kathedral, Toronto ON 2001

Official Rotting site: http://www.rottingdeath.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/rotting">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.