Rozalla (born Rozalla Miller on March 18, 1964 in Ndola, Zambia) is a female Pop/Soul/Dance music performer from Zimbabwe. She is best known for her 1991 hit Everybody's Free (To Feel Good). Her subsequent club success has earned her the title "Queen of Rave".

Rozalla first came on the scene in the 1980s in Zimbabwe, the country she had moved to from her birth country. Her singles charted well in the area and english producer Christopher Sergeant took her to London in 1988. She later started living there and Christopher became her manager. Rozalla's career took off when Everybody's Free (To Feel Good) reached number 6 in the UK charts in 1991. The track soon crossed over to international charts and reached number 37 on the Billboard Hot 100 the following year. Her debut album was named after her debut hit and also included her UK Top 20 hits Faith (In the Power of Love) and Are You Ready To Fly. She also worked with Micheal Jackson on his "Dangerous" tour, opening all of his performances.

Rozalla subsequently recorded the theme song to the film Carlito's Way, I Love Music which enjoyed UK Top 20/US Hot 100 success in 1994. Further British hits followed with the songs titled "Baby", "This Time I Found Love" and "You Never Love The Same Way Twice". During 1995 saw the release of her second album "Look No Further".

In 1996 Rozalla released a remix of Everybody's Free, which entered the UK Top 40. Her third album Coming Home was released in 1998. The album had a statesite club hit with its lead single, Don't Go Lose It Baby which, however, failed to make an impact on the UK charts.

In 2002 she enjoyed a surprise German hit single with a remix of Everybody's Free. She re-emerged in 2003 alongside Plastic Boy on the vocal Trance hit single Live Another Life. It peaked at #55 in the UK. In 2005 she released a new version of You Never Love The Same Way Twice and Are You Ready To Fly was remixed by Northernbeat. Her track "All Or Nothing" was a sizable club hit in 2005. It performed better on and appeared on more club/dance music charts in the UK than her previous recordings. 

Rozalla released an album entitled Brand New Version on February 2, 2009, under her full name Rozalla Miller. It featured a more mellow jazz/soul sound, with eight new tracks, as well as covers of Paul Weller's "Broken Stones" and Pete Doherty's "For Lovers", as well as a bonus-track jazz-influenced remake of "Everybody's Free". The album received critical acclaim, and was played on a wide range of UK radio stations, including Radio 2, and Jazz FM.

In February 2009, a Global Deejays remix of "Everybody's Free" entered the Top 40 of the Australian charts. It climbed to number 7, making it Rozalla's highest charting and first Top 10 single in Australia.

Rozalla performed as the support act for Billy Ocean on his 41 date tour of the UK in 2009, under her full name, Rozalla Miller, singing material from her new album, backed by her band. She has also performed at the iconic jazz venues The Jazz Cafe, and Pizza on the Park, headlining two nights to rapturous audiences.

In May 2009, Rozalla became a patron of the charity All Star Kids. In 2014, she released the single "Can You Feel The Love". After a protracted silence, Rozalla returned to the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play with "If You Say It Again" in 2015.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rozalla">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.