RUDE REVELATION, a young revelation indeed, is a luxemburgian Death/Thrash Metal Band, founded in 2007 by Jeff Buchette (Guitars), Raphael Gambuto (Guitars) and André Millim (Drums). The three of them had formerly played in other bands, such as Ed Hunters (an Iron Maiden Tribute band), Bleeding Sword or Eternal Winter.

Raph and Jeff had met on a concert, and Jeff proposed to start a new Death Metal Project with his acquaintance André. Having no fix concept yet, they started out jamming together. Soon enough they found their own musical identity, and all three of them started to write songs.

In September, Chris Bremer (bass), a friend of Raph joined. Only a few weeks later, Noémie Leer (vocals) joined the band. The band now being complete, they worked intensively during the following months. RUDE REVELATION developed an energetic, rhythmic thrash theme enshrouding macabre and melancholic lyrics that their nervously hot front lady shouts, sings and whispers. It's a thrill...

In December 2007, they played their first gig, to much acclaim, at the Brasserie 911 in Belvaux. Encouraged, they went on and ahead, writing more songs. Soon they engaged in more gigs and underground festivals in Luxembourg and the greater area. They recorded a 4-Song-Demo in December 2007, to be released in February 2008, to the band's dissatisfaction. It was re-recorded and ultimately released on May 2nd 2008!

On May 16th 2008, by a stroke of luck, they went on to participate at the luxemburgian edition of the W:O:A Metal Battle. Being able to play at the Rockhal in Esch/Belval, the press took much notice of this promising newcomer to the scene.

As of now, RUDE REVELATION did concerts in Luxembourg, Germany, Belgium and France, and are awaiting further gigs, "to improve" they say shyly, "and interact with other bands".

A change of staff occured in July 2008, Pit Seyler joined the Band and replaced Chris on the Bass.

Most currently, RUDE REVELATION announced their retreat to the Studio during January 2009. In far seclusion, somewhere up in northern Germany, they will concoct their first album. Not to be missed...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rude+Revelation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.