Although considered a breakthrough artist in recent times, Rudosa has been a standout
talent for a commendable period in underground circles. Since first announcing his arrival
on the scene well over a decade ago, he has carved out a definitive sonic palette that has
understandably brought its fair share of kudos from both industry specialists and club-goers
alike. This wholehearted peer support has led to international tours not only around the UK
and Europe, but further afield to India, a domain well-known for its love of robust
underground techno music.

Now standing as one of the circuit’s leading UK proponents, Rudosa’s deserving reflection
from fellow DJs has ensured his elevation to even greater heights in recent years, with his
productions proving commonplace among the touring playlists of Richie Hawtin, Adam
Beyer, ANNA, Amelie Lens, Charlotte de Witte, Maceo Plex, Carl Cox and Stephan Bodzin
among others. This ever-flourishing discography of original productions and remix projects
has seen him affiliate with benchmark labels Suara, Noir Music, Phobiq Recordings and We
Are The Brave, to name just a few.


No stranger to the dizzying heights of Beatport’s top-charting territories, Rudosa has
enjoyed footholds inside the Top 10 and Top 5 respectively with many of his works; most
notably, his 2019 Move With Me EP (Saura), which peaked at No.5 on Beatport’s Techno
chart. Further success followed in 2019 with the release of his 3-cut Technical Difficulties
offering, which climbed the ranks to achieve a No.3 spot. Rounding out the year with an
inaugural release on his own highly anticipated Moments In Time imprint, Rudosa’s
Obsolescence EP graced the Top 5, cultivating a lasting impression with a global audience
and firmly setting a precedent of things to come.

Continuing this rich vein of form into 2020, the label head dropped a boisterous remix of
Joyhauser’s Entropy, firmly cementing his acid-led sensibilities within the techno landscape.
With an upcoming VA compilation release on the label and the launch of a new monthly
radio show Moments In Time Radio in sight, the label boss and Make Me A DJ music school
the founder is on track for another career-defining year, as he prepares to conquer new
territories with his busiest touring schedule to date. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rudosa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.