There are more than one band with this name
1. Ruffkut were a traditional good time Heavy Metal power trio formed in Long Island New York by guitarist John Roggio in the early 1980's. With Bass player Tommy Henriksen and his brother Gene on drums & vocals the band was complete and became very popular on the local club scene, playing cover versions initially but adding their own material to the set as time went on. By 1984 they had enough material to enter a local studio and record a five song Mini LP which sadly was
to be their only release.

2. http://www.myspace.com/ruffkutcumbrianrock

GARRY RAWLINSON (Guitar / Vocals)
HOWARD COOPER (Keyboards)
MIKE LITTLE (Drums)
PAUL CHAPPLE (Guitar / Vocals)
ANDREW JARRATT (Bass)
KRIS WHITE (Vocals / Percussion)

THE RUFFKUT STORY: 
A long time ago, in a galaxy far far away, a band of brave musician heroes came together in order to defeat an evil empire of boy bands and karaoke singers ……..
At least, that’s how we like to see things. 
RUFFKUT came into being in the year 1999, when 3 friends, over a few beers at a party, discovered that not only were they all musicians, but they like the same type of music as well – “Classic Rock”.
Out of this night of drunken reminiscence came a suggestion that we get together and play a few tracks for fun. While we were all disappointed to discover that the tight jeans, tee shirts and denim and leather jacket combinations no longer quite fitted, we did discover that we still had the ability to play the music that we loved really quite well.
A few short months later, we kicked off our live career playing a charity event to around 350 cheering fans, and from there have taken the message of “Classic Rock” to audiences in pubs and clubs all across Cumbria, and we have been rocking ever since …..

THE SPIRIT OF RUFFKUT
Ruffkut was born from a shared love of Classic Rock. Our aim is to play Classic Rock songs, both covers and our own material, to the very best of our ability, in order to achieve the highest possible level of audience enjoyment.
We believe that music is for the audience as much as for the performers, and that above all, music should be fun.

RUFFKUT INTO THE FUTURE
We are currently working on some new material and we had our first session in the studio with NiXter in March to begin recording our album and we will post these songs as soon as they are ready.
The older songs on our myspace site were recorded a few years ago and are from our "Velvet Curtain" period ie they are a bit dark and heavy! Our new material is a little lighter and definitely funkier with a bit of heavy thrown in for good measure. We are currently having lots of fun writing and recording our own stuff! We have also posted a couple of videos featuring two of our new songs on our web page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/RuffKut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.