Ruins Of Time was formed in Stockholm, Sweden, by guitarist Christos Chatzikonstandinos (who had played guitar since 1993 and tried out for a few bands before) and drummer Juan Araya (who had played drums in Odium, and handled the vocals in Matanza, Scars and Odium) in late December of 1997. At that time the band went under the name of Legacy which later changed to Ruins Of Time.

They were joined by Rikard Edenborg on bass, who a week later brought in Goran Kukulj on lead guitar.

Guitarist Mathias Öjermark joined the band on the same day, initally brought in as a guitarist but got the spot as a keyboard player (!), but he soon switched over to guitar when Goran quit a month later.

In May 1998 Jacob Anderson, who played bass with Chris and Juan in a Death metal band at that time, took over the bass handling duties in Ruins Of Time.

In the beginning of 1999 Juan, Chris, Mathias and Jacob recorded the bands first selfproduced CD, entitled "For a New Dawn". On that recording Juan handled the vocals, because the band hadn't found a permanent singer yet.

The following years the band rehearsed and tried out different bandmembers on bass (Jacob had left the band in the end of 1999) and vocals, but there was always either a bassplayer, or a singer missing to complete the lineup. They were briefly joined by Calle Feuk on bass, but he soon left due to lack of time.

In the end of October 2001 ex-Protector vocalist Martin Missy joined Ruins of Time. In May 2002, they played their first gig with Marcelo Salazar on session bass.

Later in May they recorded their second selfproduced CD "Timetraveller". On that recording Mathias handled both guitar and bass.

Some weeks later the Ruins of Time-lineup was finally complete for the first time when bassplayer Oskar Göransson joined the band.

In the spring of 2003 the band broke up, due to personal reasons as some bandmembers had grown tired of each other. Chris, Mathias and Martin went on to form Phidion and Juan joined Hostile Reaction.

In May of 2009, Ruins Of Time reunited to record six previously unreleased tracks. These plans were put to end as Juan is quitting drums, so the recording has been postponed. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ruins+Of+Time">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.