There are five bands with the name Ruins: 

1) A Japanese prog-rock duo 
2) An Australian Black Metal duo
3) A 4-piece Black/Thrash Metal Band from Germany
4) A Canadian Deathcore band
5) An Italian electro/new wave duo
6) A German crust band

Ruins (Japanese) is a bass-&-drum duo that formed in Tokyo, Japan, in 1985. They are usually pigeonholed into the category of prog rock. The only constant member of Ruins is the drummer/vocalist Tatsuya Yoshida (吉田達也, Yoshida Tatsuya), who has cycled through four different bassists since the band’s inception.

They are known for their rapidly shifting and complex rhythms and for often sounding like five artists instead of two. Both members sing/shout/twist vocal chords in an artificial language created by Yoshida, in much the way that Magma (a defining musical influence) used the Kobaïan language.

Since Sasaki Hisashi's departure from the band in 2004, Yoshida has performed by himself as Ruins Alone. He has also performed as Sax Ruins with alto saxophonist Ryoko Ono (小野良子, Ono Ryoko).


Ruins are a black metal band, from from Hobart, Tasmania. 
Ruins was formed sometime between 2000 and 2002 by Alex Pope (ormerly of the Sea Scouts, Marpy Mply, Deathbed Conversion, Ill Kept Dwelling, Vodka Party, Mindless Violence, Evil Dead and Rend Asunder) and Dave Haley (Ex-Disseminate and The Amenta, and currently Blood Duster and Psycroptic)

They have toured Australia and New Zealand, supporting many well-known overseas bands including Satyricon, Celtic Frost, Immortal, Pig Destroyer and Wolves in the Throne Room. 
They have 4 released records: Atom and Time EP (2004) Spun Forth As Dark Nets (2005) Cauldron (2008) and Front The Final Foes (2009) and are currently in the process of writing a new album for release in 2012.


Ruins from Germany was formed in 2006 and released several split and demo tapes, along with some EPs and a full-lenght album. Their music shows really a back to the roots attitude, they play in the real old school style with dirty and raw sound. Check them out here: http://www.myspace.com/cisbeat


For the Illinois sludge metal band, see Rvins <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ruins">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.