There are 4 artists with the name Rune:

(1) Rune was a metalcore/grindcore band from Dayton, Ohio (USA). 

Breaking up in 2004, about a year after the release of their critically acclaimed album ;The End of Nothing" members went on to form the bands Mouth of the Architect and Kenoma of which both contain the melodic influence inherent within Rune's mix of ominous guitar driven melody and tortured vocals. 

Rune at times would explode into a speed driven grind-esque parts that helped to add a layer of unexpected aggression into an already agonizing soundscape. 

Rune released an EP in 2000, a split with Willowtip label mates Kalibas in 2003, and the full length "The End of Nothing" in the same year.

Members:
Kevin Gamble- Guitar
Jeremy Jordan - Vocals (Kenoma)
Doug McGinnis - Vocals (Kenoma)
Jimmy Magnuson - Drums (Kenoma)
Dave Mann - Bass (Mouth of the Architect)
Rick Shutte - Guitar

(Former Members)
Gregory Lahm - Guitar (ex-Mouth of the Architect, Struck By Lightning)
Austin Lucas - Vocals


(2) Rune is an experimental side-project of a Serbian punk/metal band "Mortal Kombat". 

Active since 2014. Rune released their first song "Ragnarok" via YouTube and Nocturne webzine.
Two other songs, ,,Kolovrat'' and ,,Ratnički san'' were released a few months thereafter.
Lyrics are in Serbian, and themes revolve around Norse and Slavic pagan mythology. 

Members:

Rastko Rašić  "Rale"  -  Vocals
Marko Lazović  "Laza"  -  Lead guitar
Miloš Kričković  "Kriki"  -  Rhythm guitar
Miloš Georgijević  "Gera"  -  Bass
Stefan Dželetović  "Džela"  -  Drums

Mortal kombat's official site:
www.mortalkombatbend.com


(3) Rune are an experimental alternative rock band from Glasgow, Scotland. They have released one ep entitled 'Slow Machines' and although they split in 2007, recently reformed in 2010. 
Their website can be found at www.myspace.com/runemusic


(4) Rune was a rock band from San Antonio, Texas (USA).

Rune is a band that retains such grace and tenacity in their music to be called genuine Rock n' Roll. Their presence on stage is electric. Strong vocal and guitar harmonies provide an exciting and vivid arrangement of rock music. "The motivation comes from each member," states lead guitarist, Tye Stone on the creative process, "The spirit of Rock n' Roll compels me to reach the next level of creative thought." Describing their lyrics, vocalist/lyricist Kyle Allen says, "Rather than the typical subject matter, such as love and hate, some of my greatest lyrical inspirations come from the beauty of nature and the supernatural." The combination of excellent music, a driving force, and inspired lyrics gives Rune the new sound of an old tradition of Rock n' Roll.

A desire to entertain is another driving force for Rune. Although excellent musicians, the vocalists usually do not play instruments on stage, giving them the freedom to move about and interact with the crowd. "It's a great feeling when the crowd can't get enough, because we can never get enough of the crowd," says Kyle Allen. The band has played in places all over Texas, including Stephenville, Port Aransas, San Antonio, San Marcos, Bandera and other venues, never failing to give people a good show.

They released a 5-song CD called Crash, Burn, and Bullets in 2003.
Some of their best songs are: "Friction Lever," "Beautiful Deadly" and "Paradise".
Their website used to be at www.runerock.com.
More information at GarageBand.com.
Rune has disbanded.

Members:
Jonathan Kruse - Drums
Chris Huizar - Bass
Tye Stone - Lead Guitar
Kyle Allen - Lead Vocals, Guitar
Justin Knight - Rhythm Guitar
Russ Allen - Lead Vocals, Guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rune">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.