British singer/songwriter and musician Rupert Stroud was born 25 February 1987 in Yorkshire England.

Rupert has independently funded and released 2 albums and gained a worldwide fan base through social media sites. 

Whilst studying Music and New Media Tech. Stroud worked his way through Uni as a bar tender serving the diverse student population and locals of his home town Leeds. The experience, the good, the bad and the sometimes ugly, proved great inspiration for his song writing!

While recording his debut album in 2009, with legendary Leeds producer Will Jackson, (previous credits- The Kaiser Chiefs, The Pigeon Detectives, The Cribs and Embrace) Rupert met his drummer Mick Bedford (who plays drums on both albums) and Keyboard player/guitarist Mike Pearson, both accomplished musicians.

Stroud had been playing the Yorkshire gig circuit as a solo acoustic artist since the release of his debut album. While recording his second album Chasing The Night, again with Will Jackson as producer, Stroud asked the two musicians to join him on stage. The two Mikes soon became permanent fixtures in his line-up. This proved a powerful decision, as the three evolved into a dynamic stage performance. They are often joined on stage by songbird Kate Peters, primarily as jazz singer, who also sings backing vocals on 'Chasing The Night'.

The band continue to gig frequently and are played and featured on BBC Introducing, local radio, online radio both UK and European stations, with live lounge performances and interviews as well as album track plays.

THE NEW ALBUM- "CHASING THE NIGHT" IS OUT NOW AVAILABLE WORLDWIDE TO DOWNLOAD ON ITUNES AND AMAZON.COM AND FOR MAIL ORDER FROM WWW.RUPERTSTROUDMUSIC.COM 


Review of "Chasing The Night"

" With his exciting range of indie rock and acoustic music, singer/songwriter Rupert Stroud has been building a loyal following worldwide and his new album "Chasing The Night" looks set to secure his reputation as... one of Yorkshire's hottest young acts.

Produced by premier soundsmith Will Jackson, who has also worked with Embrace, The Cribs and The Pigeon Detectives, Chasing The Night showcases Stroud's versatility as a writer and performer and highlights his growing maturity as an artist.

"It offers impressive beat driven arrangements that are dynamic and inventive, at times intimate. Rupert's vocals and lyrics are certainly emotive and thought-provoking "

Beyond Magazine (Leeds)
July/August 2011
Issue 29

"In parts this reminds me of The La's and cast with it's acoustic nod towards jangle-pop but then in other moments it's net is cast bringing in all aspects of indie...from epic to odd all in a great album that's got more than a few great numbers on it!"

Jumbo Records (Leeds)
June-August 2011


" Kicking off tonight's showcase of local music for 360 Club and BBC Introducing is Rupert Stroud and two of his musically gifted friends. They open with a nice cover of Adele's 'Rolling In The Deep' which is fairly true to the original before moving onto his self penned, reflective and autobiographical material.
Stroud's voice has a beautiful tone to his voice which is especially haunting on 'Chasing The Night' while the other musicians add a richness to the music which makes it more interesting than the typical singer/songwriter acoustic based acts. The majority of the songs are driven by the drumming, be it on the kit or the bongos, which allows the singer to focus on emoting which he does well especially in the powerful choruses.

It's a soothing and accomplished display far better than the majority of 'unplugged' acts Stroud would ordinarily be grouped along with. "

Rebecca Atkinson
Leeds Music Scene
BBC Introducing-360 Club Gig review
28th October 2011


...Songs in their repertoire such as "Hangover' and '40 Days And 40 Nights'...It was during these songs that we got a real glimpse of what Rupert Stroud could do. His menacing vocals paired with intricate guitar lines and minimal yet powerful drumming came together to create a mesmerizing style of acoustic rock... you felt captivated and were fully engaged by the band..."

Ross Muir
Leeds Music Scene
360 Club-Gig review-19th August 2011 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rupert+Stroud">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.