Rushmore is the name of several bands and a movie:

1. Rushmore is a four-piece band from Mount Holly, New Jersey that was formed in 2003. Since their start, they’ve gone through a few line-up changes and released a collection of EPs and Demos, including ‘Backside of the Mountain’ (2003), ‘Calamity’ (2004), ‘Demo Demons’ (2005), and the most recently released ‘Wake the Neighborhood’ (2006). The band is fronted by lead singer and guitarist, Travis Coffin, with Jordan Gershowitz on bass, Jason Fox on lead guitar, and their newest addition, Mark Miller, on drums. Rushmore has played with Jersey bands such as Break Away, The Letdown, Templeton, Valencia, A Hero From A Thousand Paces, Houston Calls. A big break came for the band in December 2006 when they played the main stage of the Trocadero in Philadelphia, PA. 

2. Rushmore is the name of a rock band from Bergen, Norway. They released their self-titled debut album in 2006 on Flow-Fi Records.

3. Rushmore is the name of a Japanese rock band formed in 2008. The band mastermind is former Every Little Thing keyboardist and song maker Mitsuru Igarashi. They released their first album Reasons of Four Seasons in December 2009

4. Rushmore is the name of an ambient solo artist, member of Twin Cabins. 

5. 4. Rushmore was an indie/screamo band from Melbourne, Australia, that existed for only nine months in 2000-2001. In that time they headlined shows in Melbourne, toured Adelaide, and recorded a well-received demo.

6. Rushmore is the name of a film directed by Wes Anderson with music by Mark Mothersbaugh of Devo.

7. Rushmore was an indie rock/emo band from Columbus, OH active in the early 2000s. They released two EPs ("What's A Holiday Alone" and "The Graceland Signal") and one full length album ("An Album"). Members of Rushmore went on to play in a variety of Columbus-based groups, including Max Lewis and the Deep Sea Divers, Six Gallery, Way Yes, and more.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rushmore">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.