Russian Circles is a three-piece post-rock/post-metal band from Chicago, USA. The band plays epic, sprawling music which runs the gamut of heavy discordant metal to soft delicate passages. They are also known for their energetic live shows, having toured with Isis, Tool, Red Sparowes, Pelican, Minus the Bear, Daughters, amongst various others. They have also taken part in the 2006, 2007 & 2008 SXSW festivals.

Formed in late 2004 by guitarist Mike Sullivan and bassist Colin DeKuiper (both formerly of another instrumental band Dakota/Dakota), they quickly recruited Dave Turncrantz, formerly of St. Louis band Riddle of Steel. In 2007 DeKuiper departed the band and Brian Cook (These Arms Are Snakes and Botch) took on the role of bass player for the writing and recording of their newest album, entitled Station, recorded in Seattle with Producer Matt Bayles. 

Station was released on May the 6th, 2008 on Suicide Squeeze Records.

On October 20th, 2009, the band released their third album entitled Geneva The album featured the same lineup as Station, with Brian Cook taking a much larger role in the writing and creation of the album. Brian Cook described the band's take on the new album being "less concerned with making sure we could replicate the material live as we were with making a compelling album."

In 2011, Russian Circles signed to Sargent House who had previously only exclusively released the band's albums on limited edition vinyl. Their fourth studio album Empros was released on October 25, 2011. A supporting tour with Deafheaven followed the release. In May, 2013 the group began recording their fifth studio album, produced by Brandon Curtis. Memorial was released at the end of October 2013 and featured a guest-vocal by Chelsea Wolfe. Together they embarked on a co-headlining UK/European tour in the fall. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Russian+Circles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.