There are multiple artists with the name Rust:
1) A Finnish alternative metal band
2) A British psychedelic rock band with an album released in 1969
3) A Greek heavy metal band formed in 1984
4) An Australian street punk band
5) A Norwegian rock band
6) A 90s San Diego, CA band
7) A 13 year old British Rapper with tunes on youtube
8) A Finnish grindcore/mincecore band
9) A Swedish black/thrash metal band
10) A Polish psychedelic rock/blues band

1)
These four Finns demonstrate an incredible amount of talent, dedication and versatility in their music best described as alternative metal. RUST hails from the city of Helsinki, Finland and stands out with their original style and striking musicianship. Having their roots in the 90's alternative rock and metal, RUST distinctively mixes sounds and rhythms of the 21st century with massive deep-tuned guitar riffs, huge and catchy choruses and powerful vocal performances. The music is strong and hard at the same time being melodic and emotional.

RUST was formed in Helsinki, Finland in 2001. The first “official” Rust release “The Black EP” was released on July 24th 2003. The national radio station YleX chose the song “Down” as the “power play song of the week”. In early 2004, the debut single "Miss You" was featured in a smash hit movie "Addiction 3" and its original soundtrack compilation. The second single, a Duran Duran cover "Ordinary World", presented more radio friendly side of RUST and was the first video single of the band.

The critically acclaimed debut album "softly", released on TCM label, set the bar high in August 2004. The fans and the media instantly recognized six months of hard work in the studio naming RUST as one of the best new rock bands of that time. "softly" reached top 50 on the Finnish album chart and received excellent reviews on music papers, magazines and web zines in Europe. Finland's top nationwide Rock radio network YLEX chose "softly" as the album of the week in August 2004. The band's mastermind, singer/songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Mikko Herranen produced the album "softly" with Meelis Niin (reputable sound guru with Apocalyptica, Velcra, Waltari etc), the final result being massive, punchy and organic package full of energy and emotion.

RUST released their second album “Songs of Suffocation” in the end of August 2006. The album was released by 92Dawn and produced by Mikko Herranen. “SOS”-album represented a heavier and darker side of RUST. The first single “Away” was number two single on the Finnish Top 20 single charts for two weeks. The album was strongly praised by the critics and the RUST fans.

In 2007 RUST released a free net EP called “SCARS”. At the same time the band parted ways with their long time bass player Jura. RUST continues as a four member band Mikko taking care of the bass duties.

RUST is currently working on new songs for their third album.

2)
Originally recorded in 1969, Rust's album, Come With Me, is something of a lost mini-classic. Akarma Records re-released this obscure album, originally released on the independent German label Hor Zu, and bringing it to light in the early 21st century. Great, psychedelic rock tunes are embellished with phased vocals, treated piano, samples of radio broadcasts, washes of organ, and electronic effects. Mind you, this isn't total freak out music, or anything. Songs like "You Thought You Had It Made" and "Rust" revel in blues licks, and rock with a genuine joy, even if the subject matter of their lyrics is somewhat pessimistic, and softer tunes like "Please Return" and the gorgeous "Find a Hideaway" are full of acoustic guitars and vocal harmonies. It's melodic rock that likes to experiment. 

3)
Rust were founded back in 1984, but the name was not established until 1985 by the founder George Stratakis. George grouped up with Makis Makris (lead vocals) and the two of them begun a series of auditions to complete the lineup of the band four months later. After rehearsing their material for thirteen months in their studio Rust officially began their career in November 22, 1986 with a series of concerts in their hometown Athens. 

Being one of the pioneer bands of the Greek heavy metal scene they entered the studio again in April, 1987 to work on some new ideas. Shortly after that they began giving concerts this time both in Athens and Thessalonica. In March 1988 and after a change in the lineup they re-entered the studio in order to record their debut album “Shoot them higher”. After seventeen months of recordings the band hit the road promoting the album and touring all over the country.

At the end of the tour Nick Kaplanis replaced former bass player Lucas Metaxas. They begun preparing a second album with the name “Power Disorder” but this was interrupted by an important series of live events after which the lead singer Makis Makris who was a member for nine years left the band. Along with him and in a small period of time all the band's members except the founder George Stratakis and bass player Nick Kaplanis were replaced.

This radical change made the semi finished second album break in pieces and the idea of a new recording seemed now far away, so the band went out touring once more with a new lineup until early 1994. Then their musical style changed from classical heavy metal back in the 80’s to power progressive in the mid 90’s. This change of style delivered a change of band members again and a long absence from live events the band was so fond of. Drummer Greg Glezakos and guitar player Panos Lainas joined the band in 1994 to form an almost complete lineup that lasts to this day. 

Most of the 90’s were a difficult time for metal music in Greece due to the lack of interest by the record companies. In spite of all that and with no frontman the band managed to prepare a new twelve song demo with the perspective to become a full album called “Subjective crime”. Unfortunately the album was never recorded. The main issue at the time was that Rust could not find an available lead singer to perform in the album. All the capable frontmen that could have performed (and they were few of them) were already main members of other bands.

With no solution to the problem and with time passing by the band adopted the thrash-death style of the new millennium. This led them to clean up their loose ends and after two unreleased material write songs for a new release. Today they have already prepared a CD demo for their new album named “Addictions of the I” and soon they’ll begin the official studio recordings.

4)
Rust is a street punk band from Sydney, Australia. They are also known as R.U.S.T. Formed half way through 2005, featuring members of some of Australia's most prominent past punk rock bands such as Crucified Venus, Crankcase, Rule 303, Gravel Rash and World War 24, all fused together to make this front foot forward Rockin' Roll Rust bucket road train of a band. This is a band that has no shortage of talent, aggression, passion and experience. Official myspace: http://www.myspace.com/rustpunk

5)
Rust is a band from Rogaland, Norway who defines themselves as progressive rock/power pop.

6)
Rust's first release was an eponymous 7-track EP recorded by Wharton Tiers in 1994. The Dave Jerden-produced full length "Bar Chord Ritual" followed in 1996. Hailing from San Diego, CA, the band comprised John Brinton (vocals, guitar recordings), Czar Michael Suzick (guitars), Timothy Peter James Blankenship (bass, vocals, guitar), and Patrick William Edward Hogan (drums).

9)
Filthy black/thrash metal from Sweden. The band has existed since autumn of 2006.

4 releases so far:
RUST s/t on CD (sold out), on Tape (Sold out)
RITE OF THE GRAVE 10”
RUST/DUNGEÖNHAMMER split 7”
DAMNED HELLISH VOIDS 12”

10)
Polish rock band from Poznań. Four like-minded musicians have united to create a fusion of psychedelic rock and blues that will enthrall audiences the world over.

RusT first came to people’s attention at the beginning of the decade when they released their two EP’s: I) ...leaves the message... and II) ...is calling. The single 'That’s All You’ve Got' from their first EP immediately drew audiences to their concerts all across Poland.
At the same time RusT qualified for the MTV European Music Awards in Belfast where they were selected as one of the final 4 international acts. Since spring 2012 RusT’s concert appearances have won them the first place in Jarocin Festival as well the chance to play for half a million people at the Woodstock Festival in Poland.

The premiere of 'White Fog' took place in November 2014 and was released by an independent label called Good Time Records with distribution from Universal Music Polska. The album was not only enthusiastically received by the music press but also by the wide audiences of dozens of White Fog Leads Me tour concerts.
Videos for the singles White Fog and Mary Jane have been released onto the web. Until the end of 2016 RusT promoted their debut album on the White Fog Leads Me tour (2015) including the international stages of Orange Warsaw Festival (PL), Masters of Rock (CZ) and Rock In The Barn (FR).
Throughout the White Fog tour they have been honored to share their stage with such acts as: Blues Pills (SE), Airbourne (AUS), The Answer (IRL), Rival Sons (USA), Triggerfinger (BE) and MUSE (UK).

Their second album 'Night will Fall' was released on 30th October 2018.

Band members:
Michu Przybylski - vocal
Majkel Gołąbek - guitar
Marcin Zimmer - bass
Jakub Martuzalski - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.