There are 2 bands that use the name Rusty Nail

1) A grunge band from Saint-Petersburg, Russia. The band would become known as Venus Veins.

2) A celtic punk band from St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
--------------------------------------
1) Grunge band RUSTY NAIL was formed on the ruins of band ABERDEEN at the beginning of 2008 in Saint-Petersburg, Russia when two of its founders were introducted: it was Mike Wilson (vox, guitar) and Camaleao (drums). They started to rehearse together without bass guitar player - it was a real problem to find a serious one. Alex "Fender" Fondaratov became first bassist of that band - he was an owner of rehearsal room, where RUSTY NAIL had practice and he just decided to help guys 'cause he understood that they will not start to play concerts without bass. So, at the 20th of February band played their debut concert. After that gig Alex left band because he wanted to play heavy metal. Couple weeks ago Eugene Veremey took his place. He was very talented, but he also was a leader of nice extreme hardcore band - every body decided that it would be better for him to play his band. May, 2008, Mike remembered about someone guy named 'Woodcuter' (DROV) - they met only once, Mike told him that he wants to play grunge and Drov said that he's bassist and gave Mike his phone number. Mike absolutely forgot about this conversation and just accidentally found Drov's number in his phone book. So, how people usually say, Mike and Drov understood that they fit to each other blah-blah-blah...
     ...Camaleao started to work hard (he was an attorney) and left band. Dmitry 'Villager' Kazinov, genious drummer from the north of Russia, took his place.
     Now, RUSTY NAIL plays a lots of shows and about to be prepared to record their first album. 
     Listen, watch, comment! Rock on!!!

2)  Formed in St. Louis, Missouri in the Winter of 2005. The band consists of two refugees from the late Frederick's Music Lounge (Open Mic Night Hootenany) that joined a guitarist with a background in metal and a classically trained violinist to write new material and master an impressive repertoire of traditional drinking songs, folk ballads, and pirate sea chanteys. These songs each tell stories and paint pictures for the audience to be invited into the show.
    The name Rusty Nail was taken from a St. Louis version of a cocktail, mixing Irish whiskey (instead of Scotch) and Drambuie <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Rusty+Nail">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.