There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Ruth is a French new wave band formed in the early 1980s by Thierry Müller. The group's lone album, "Polaroïd/Roman/Photo", was released in 1985. It sold just 50 copies and was relegated to obscurity until the track “Polaroïd/Roman/Photo” started appearing on bootlegs and compilations in the early 2000s, slowly becoming the cult synthpop classic it is nowadays. Ruth are a shining light from an oft forgotten music scene that is becoming increasingly influential today.
Ruth was the brainchild of Thierry Müller, a photographer and graphic artist from Paris who drew his inspiration from bands and artists like Brian Eno, Stockhausen, Pere Ubu, Neu, Velvet Underground and Kraftwerk. The line-up of Ruth was collaborative and fluid, brass mingles with prototype drum machines, and squalling experimentation sits alongside sultry French girls across 40 minutes of edgy pop innovation that sounds remarkably undated alongside contemporary pop music.
In 2012 Ruth came back with "Far From Paradise", a collaborative album with Italian electronic artist Mushy.

2) Ruth is a Bulgarian soul/jazz singer. For Ruth Koleva, music isn't just a hobby, it's her way of life. She starts traveling around the world at the age of 9, having her first official stage appearance in Thailand. At 15, she flies to New York to enchant Joe Fletcher, a top manager and concert promoter who has worked with a wide range of musicians (BB King, James Brown, Tori Amos, Black Eyed Peas), the result of which is singing up with him and recording her first original demo with Martin Briley, who is famous for successfully producing, writing and co-writing songs for gold record artists such as *NSYNC, Elton John, Daughtry and Marc Anthony. In 2007, Ruth is chosen among hundreds of candidates to spend five months in the capital of show business, Los Angeles, training at the Hollywood Pop Academy where she performs in front of the soul music pioneer Stevie Wonder. Meanwhile, she meets Carlos Neal from Universal Music and records four tracks which are to be released later this year. Loaded with experience and energy for new musical challenges, she joins the hip hop label ILLmate . Ruth's one-of-a-kind voice has also brought her into duet performances, on- stage with Bobby McFerrin, and dub legend Mad Professor, who admits to being fascinated by her ability to experiment fluidly with several musical idioms at only 17 years of age.


3) Ruth is an American Christian rock band. New Tooth and Nail rock band Ruth has "Cross(ed) the Line" of being typical with their astonishing debut album Secondhand Dreaming. Originating from the city of Vancouver, WA the band is lead by Dustin Ruth (Vocals / Guitar) and consists of Justin Schiermeister (Bass), Roomie Reid (Drums), and Nicholas Wiinikka (Guitar). Ruth’s sound is somewhere between Switchfoot and Lifehouse with vocal similarities to The Fray, Switchfoot and Everyday Sunday.


4) Ruth was a mid-1990s, London-based Britpop band who released a string of moderately successful singles and one full-length, "Harrison," in 1999. In 2001 the band changed their name to The 45s and released two more singles and one more full-length before their split in 2002. That same year, frontman Matt Hales then went on to form the far more commercially successful Aqualung, who would have a string of hits in both the U.K. and U.S. in the mid-2000s.

5) Ruth is an African-American singer who recorded two Spanish language albums of Tejano music.

6) Ruth is a  very obscure British folk-rock singer with only one known recording to her name, the fabulously poignant '87 Sundays', a lament from a London girl left pregnant by a wastrel. The song can be found on the Cherry Red compilation, 'Dream Babes Volume 5'. No biographical information at all is known about the singer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ruth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.