Averaging over 200 gigs per year for the past few years, Ryan Montbleau Band has generated the kind of buzz that only surrounds a talented artist on the verge.  

Emerging onto the national music scene from his home base of Boston, Ryan Montbleau has been described as something of a Martin Sexton by way of Van Morrison and Stevie Wonder. Yet Ryan Montbleau Band’s music is difﬁcult to pigeon-hole or neatly categorize. It is original yet familiar—a fresh sound full of ﬁrmly-rooted ingredients, including Americana, folk, blues, ragtime and ’70’s R&B and soul. Whereas the band’s intriguing instrumentation and arrangements (not to mention top notch chops) help to create this unique sound, all is ﬁrmly anchored by Montbleau’s water-tight lyrics and unmistakable voice. 

Having begun his career playing Boston’s coffee shops and folk venues as a solo artist with an infectious, percussive, ﬁngerpicking guitar style, the charismatic Ryan Montbleau has evolved into the front man for the eclectic ensemble that bears his name. Make no mistake—this is a band in every sense of the word and is powered by the dynamics of Matt Giannaros (acoustic upright bass, electric bass, vocals), Laurence Scudder (viola), Jason Cohen (piano, organ, clavinet, Rhodes, Moog) and James Cohen (drums). 
      
Their ﬁrst collective album, One Fine Color, was released on Valentine’s Day, 2006 and shows a cohesive vision rarely seen among young artists today.  Several thousand copies have sold so far and the album has been raved about by music lovers of all types and, perhaps most notably, all ages (from senior citizens to infants and everyone in between). One Fine Color showcases the timeless songwriting, invigorating energy, and humble, honest sincerity that has allowed Ryan Montbleau Band to expand its passionate fan base one show, and one listen at a time. 
      
This combination of art and personality creates that magical bond between performer and audience that Ryan Montbleau Band is fortunate to have in these cynical times. Sustaining the band through the years as they toured incessantly, virtually living on the road, they have already established a large, passionate following throughout the country.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ryan+Montbleau+Band">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.