S-Tone Inc. has been for over ten years the primary music project of Stefano Tirone, musician from Milan, whose first music experiences date back to the early 80’s, during the new wave era (with tracks included into "Gathered" and "Body Section", two compilations released by the magazine Rockerilla), but who, as a producer, starts working in the early 90’s, alternating house production to funky productions.

The influence of the British acid jazz scene of the early 90’s and his deep love for the 70’s soul and jazz music are the foundations of the S-Tone Inc. project, that starts in 1992 with the track Get Freaky Now, the received great appreciation in the UK and represents one of the earliest examples of made in Italy acid jazz music. His debut album was released in 1996 on the Milano 2000/Ishtar label under the title Love Unlimited and contains the track Ainda Sonhar, a composition that as the forerunner of the nu bossa genre and that got included into tens of compilations all over the world.

In 1997 he releases under the name Cosmorama a monothematic drum and bass project entitled "Space Odyssey". Mainly through the third album under the name S-Tone Inc., released in 2002 on Schema/Ishtar and entitled Sobrenatural, he refines his style, made of Brazilian, soul and jazz influences, without forgetting the experiences that he’d made with various Italian and British DJ’s in the house music scene. He worked with Italian and British labels, such as Schema, Irma, Acid Jazz, Centrestage. In 2004, he produced Toco, a Brazilian artist, with the aim to revive the bossa nova tradition of the 60’ with an updated taste. Both Sobrenatural and Instalação Do Samba by Toco were released in France on the label Bonsaï Music. During 2004, he produced his new album Luz Y Sombra with the participation of various musicians from the Milan jazz scene and Brazil, with the intention to take a more acoustic direction than he had in the past, making a more discreet and minimal use of electronic.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/S-Tone+Inc.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.