SNP (acronym for the italian expression "Stato Nervoso Precario") formed back in 1990.

After three long years spent on searching a personal style, the band released their selfproduced debut-EP in 1993; the record called "All Is An Endless Nothing... Empty Words, Empty Promises", really rooted into the classic '80s Thrash Metal in the vein of Metallica and Pantera, helps spreading widely the name of the band and it sells more than 1500 copies.

One year later SNP joins the compilation "Nightpieces III" (Dracma Records) with an unreleased song called "Confusion". The music becomes more aggressive and the endless storming live-shows make the band one of the more promising of the italian extreme Metal scene. In 1996 the full-length debut-album "Excess" is finally out on Last Scream Records: 10 songs full of powerful anger and melodic aggression that push SNP really high in the favours of the italian Metal-kids. The four guys start their long "happy to hate" live-tour playing all over Italy and making a lot of new fans with their kick-ass adrenalinic live-shows. Under the big pressure of their fans for new material, the band releases in 1998 "For Fans Only", really nice home-video featuring 40+ minutes of the band captured live and private with the addition of 3 video-clips of songs contained in the "Excess" Cd. In 1999 it's the time for the new 3-songs single "Negazione", musically violent and aggressive as never before, a mix between Hard-core and Modern Metal. In 2000 SNP have been chosen to join the Metallica Tribute-album "Phantom Lords" (released by Adrenaline Records) with the track "The Thing That Should Not Be". 2003: a new record-deal have been signed with I-NU-MAN Records, the new subdivision of Adrenaline Records focused on the Nu Metal-Thrash sound. The brilliant result is the new album "Scarface": 14 songs of nu-thrash metal€. Energy, power, passion,aggression! www.statonervosoprecario.it march 2008: out the new album Valthellina, a bloody thrashcore from the blood mountain <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/S.N.P.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.