There are multiple artists with the name SOAP.

1. S.O.A.P. is a Danish pop duo consisting of sisters Heidi and Line Sørensen that released two albums between 1998 and 2000 and sold around two million records. Their biggest hit was their debut single This Is How We Party, which made pop charts around the world, including the Billboard Hot 100 in the U.S.

Heidi and Line (or Saseline) Sørensen were born in 1979 and 1982, respectively, both in Malaysia. Their mother is Malay and their father Danish, and they lived in both countries during their childhoods. They began singing and performing early in life, encouraged by their parents. After they met Danish songwriter-producer Remee in 1995, they were signed to Sony Music as S.O.A.P. (pronounced as "soap").

Their first album, Not Like Other Girls, was first released in spring of 1998, along with first single This Is How We Party. Internationally, the group was managed by Simon Fuller, and the group became an international hit with chart positions in Europe, Japan, Australia and the U.S. alike. The girls also toured with The Backstreet Boys and won two Danish Grammy awards for their debut.

In 2000, the girls released their second album, Miracle, preceded by single S.O.A.P. Is In The Air. During preparations for their third album, S.O.A.P. decided to disband to try other things. 

In 2010, Line released her first solo album under the artist name Saseline.

2. S.O.A.P. is also the abbreviation of the Japanese rock band Sons Of All Pussys.

3. Emily Berregaard (formally SOAP) is an Ann Arbor, MI-based ambient musician who utilizes guitar, keys and layered vocals. Her first full-length release was with Warm Gospel Tapes of Portland, Oregon in 2012. She has since released an EP with sublabel Drug Arts of Iowa and is currently working on a split 7” to be released by the same label in 2015. She has worked with SLC-based electronic musician Mooninite for a split cassette collaboration known as ‘Moonlets’-released by HEL Audio of Utah. She is also one part of the two piece project known as ‘Near’ with musician Theodore Schafer.

Berregaard has contributed to compilations on Michigan-based label Hacktivism Records and been featured on New York City's "Spotlight on the City" on Breakthru Radio. Her music is also featured in short films directed by Chicago director Elijah Alvarado as well as LA-based director Nicholas Naveda. (FIND MORE INFORMATION AT http://www.last.fm/tag/emily%20berregaard) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/S.O.A.P.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.