Visit www.sa-da-ko.com


Taking influence from everywhere and everything, films, games and music of every genre, to altered perceptions, shit jobs and the state of the world in which they live, Sa-Da-Ko means something different to everyone. Described by promoters and their peers, more often than not, as “groove metal” a niche the lads are slightly at odds with, describing themselves just as good ol’ heavy metal music you can bang ya head- or ya bird to, all the while enjoying a cold beer and a whiskey!

After the first run of merchandise and the release of their debut E.P. in Summer 2010 “Zer01” selling out of physical copies faster than they could keep up with, the band landed a deal with R.O.P. records based in Preston, who have shown amazing support since, enabling them to release “Zer01”, and forthcoming releases to a greater audience via iTunes, Amazon etc. and was shortly followed up with the bands first full length video for the track “Red”. Towards the end of 2010 the band showed a lighter side, by releasing a cover of Will Smith`s 90`s smash hit, “Boom Shake The Room” which gained an unbelievable amount of attention from fans, reaching the ears of the people from Metal Hammer, perhaps helping to pave the way to them playing “HammerFest”, all the way to Sony- who promptly removed the video from YouTube, oops!!

Heading back into the studio again saw the release of split E.P. “Sa-Da-Ko Vs Subservience” in March 2011, again, released online and physically through R.O.P. Sa-Da-Ko contributed 3 tracks to the E.P. with their southern brothers Subservience doing the same, resulting in a 6 track E.P. dirtier than ya Nan!! The release of this E.P. last year, enabled the lads to travel further than ever- clocking up countless shows up and down the country, reaching central London, the surrounding areas and then many major towns and cities in the UK, all the while keeping a solid fan base in the North West, through organising sell out shows, themed gigs and being generally awesome!!

January 2012 sees the release of the video for “Forced Evolutionary Virus” and we find the lads currently in the studio recording a full length album entitled “Awakenings” which they hope will pull them further, and to more epic gigs, meeting more cool people, and maybe, if luck would find them, see themselves out of their shitty day jobs and onto a stereo and stage near ya ma!!

www.twitter.com/sadako01
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sa-Da-Ko">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.