The story behind Saagar is quite simple and rare at the same time. Is not the same old Black Metal project of a lonely guy who wants to be Varg Vikernes for the sake of releasing noise every month of the year. Saagar was given birth in 2010, after the conclution of his father that in this corner of the world (Entre Ríos, Argentina) there are zero possibilities in any kind to persue a band with a black metal aproach...couple of years before 2010 the band kept trying to find people who wanted to play the songs, but it was impossible, living in such small community very far from other cities, with the economy of a third world, also people with such narrow minded heads, frustration took ahead us and when it was almost over, when I was alone again after 2 long years rehearsing, accumulating defeats. I realize that I had material to record a couple of songs and trying in that way reach people's interest or at least to give me pleasure of do so.

I recorded "From The plains" in June 2011, 4 songs EP wich was released by Ukranian label Depressive Illusion Records. This album is the catharsis of years of pain and failure it was done with a extremely DIY attitude, isolated from the world in a cabin landed in the Forest (the artwork of the tape is a picture from the cabin), I recorded this album in 5 days. It never was in my mind the intention of making a extremely rough production so I tried myself to make this album' sound the best I could. The concept of the lyrics surround the idea of being in such natural enviroment (my city itself) with this hughe amount of miles of virgin woods and being inspired by that.

Couple of months after that I put togheter a Split with an Argentinian black metal band called Helvete, the name of the project was "Spectrum of War" wich contains 2 songs from my part and was released in Vinyl by French label Mortis Humanae Records in February 2012.

In 2012 I had 2 more releases planned, one is almost to be out, is the Argentinian tribute to Bathory ", "Odens Ride Over Southernland" to be released by Misanthropic Spirit Records. My contribution to the album is the beautiful ballad from the Blood on ice album "The Woodwoman". I wanted to give my own touch to the song and when i did it, it was clear for me that was the moment to records a Full-Leght album with the same DIY attitude but trying the best sound I could to show a deep occult meaning behind the lyrics. 
Thats the reason why I started to compose "Interitum Universalis" wich was a long process of 4 months of demoing, erasing and writing and then recording, I did it all by myself for myself and to share it with people interested. So be prepared to the inminent Omega...Interitum Universalis! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saagar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.