History of the band starts in summer 1994, in Slovenia, under name CATACOMB. Original founding members were: David Kupcic, Boštjan Temlin, Aleš Šketa and Milko Kraner. In the begining of 1996, Boštjan left the band and was replaced by Tadej Predan. In the summer 1997, David´s sister Vesna join the band as keyboardist. At this time band ultimately changed its name into Sabaium and journey into darkness finally begun.

Since beginning Sabaium played on several gigs in Slovenia and abroad. Darkness was also spread, when they appeared on several important festivals in Slovenia (Rock Otocec 1999, Fuck of Commercial 1999, Metal Fest 1998 Kranj, Metal Koroška 2000, Metal Mania 2002...) and on music shows on the Slovenian national television. Sabaium had a opportunity to play with bands like: ATROCITY, SIX FEET UNDER, ANCIENT, NILE, RATOS THE PORAO, TEMPERANCE, INTERCEPTOR, SKYTOWER, NOCTIFERIA, PROSPECT and with many others. In the beginning of 1999 Sabaium released their debut album called EMBRACED WITH SILENCE. In this period Sabaium become one of the leading acts in Slovenian metal scene. In January 2002 band split up with guitarist Tadej due to different philosophy and views.

In autumn 2002 second album called BEYOND was released. At the same time first video clip was recorded for song Tiha pesem (and added to the album as video file). In year 2003 darkness started gradually to fade. Constant fall of creativity, different views and, after all, betrayal, almost brought Sabaium to its end at it's very own decade. Final manifestation happened in June 2004 when band split up with drummer Milko, who used to be important driving force in Sabaium's past. Final oblivion seemed never so close. Fortunately, there was enough strength in Sabaium remains to start the ritual of re-birth. First phase successfully ended with Jure Hadlerjoining on drums. The mission of Sabaium re-birth was accomplished with Leon Svilarjoining on guitar. In spring of 2006 band releases their 3rd album called GRAVITY DIVINE, which represents a new milestone in band creativity. In June 2006, guitarist Leon leaves the band and soon being replaced by Jure Vandur. Band is currently working on material for their 4th album.

Discograpy:
MONUMENT OF DEATH (1995 – as Catacomb) Demo tape / Self release
GATES OF DOOM (1996 – as Decayed Catacomb) Demo tape / Self release
EMBRACED WITH SILENCE - Debut Album / Seven Art Music
BEYOND - Album / Self release
GRAVITY DIVINE - Album / Self release

http://www.sabaium.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SABAIUM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.