There are currently six different artists known under the name Sable.

1. An Ukrainian metal artist, who gained attention for his metal cover songs, such as his cover of Montero (Call Me By Your Name) by Lil Nas X or Money Machine by 100 gecs.

2. Not just another pretty face in boots and a cowboy hat, Jeff Sable brings a distinct new voice and new songs/sounds to country music and radio. But his looks have not gone unnoticed by reviewers. ”Jeff Sable has abundant sex appeal and the talent to back it up,” according to Music Connection Magazine in their June 2007 issue.

Jeff Sable and his brother Chris have been making music since before they were teens. Jeff provides the lead vocals and guitar. Chris plays bass and sings harmony, and the two brothers write the majority of Sable music. Through the years, Jeff and Chris Sable have continued to teach and learn from each other how to improve their songwriting, recording, and performing skills. They never stop honing their craft as musicians, and making their own unique brand of country music.

The Sable brothers grew up in Southern Illinois, just across the Mississippi River from St. Louis. An area mixed with farms and factories… small town life close to a major metropolitan city. Their father was a Vietnam vet who worked in law enforcement and retired from the Department of Defense. Their blue collar upbringing taught the Sable brothers straight forward small town farm and family values that shine through in their own style of country music. The chorus from their first single “Raised on the Radio” sums up the brothers best …. “I was raised on the radio, learned to walk to country and soul, cut my teeth on rock-n-roll, raised on the radio.”

The resulting Sable music is flavored with the rich and diverse history of R&B, Soul, Rock, and Country music that flourished in the metro St. Louis area as they were growing up. 

St. Louis influences such as Ike and Tina Turner, Chuck Berry, and Johnnie Johnson resonated throughout the Sable household courtesy of their father. The brother’s more recent influences include John Mellencamp, Keith Urban and Pat Green along with traditional artists like Charlie Daniels, Johnny Cash and John Denver.

Performances with artists such as Darius Rucker, Tracy Byrd, James Taylor, Bo Bice, Joan Jett, Bad English, Andy Griggs, Skid Row, Jeff Bates, 38 Special, Adam Gregory, Victoria Balestrini and others further developed their music style. 

The Sable brothers’ songwriting style is very personal and revealing. Love, life, and family make up the message of their music. Chris notes, “If people cannot understand your songs, and really feel them, you have not done your job as a song writer.”

Jeff Sable and the Sable band have honed their chops performing for more than 500,000 fans in the last five years. Sable tours throughout the United States, Europe, Canada, and Mexico, and has performed for American troops on USO tours.

Sable’s first single, “Raised on the Radio,” charted nationally on New Music Weekly, Independent Music Network, and Music Row’s country charts. The single went all the way to the top attaining the #1 ranking on the Independent Music Network chart and #12 on the Indie Country chart for New Music Weekly. 

The second single, “ Love Hasn’t Found ‘em Yet,”  also charted on the New Music Weekly and Music Row charts, attaining the #3 spot on the Indie Country chart and #6 on the Main Country chart at New Music Weekly.
 
“Drop of Rain,” Sable’s third single, maintained the #1 spot on both the New Music Weekly Country charts (Indie Country and Main Country charts)  for 3 weeks. The song spent 17 weeks in the Top 10 on the New Music Weekly chart and attained the #52 on the Music Row chart. 
 
The Sable video, “When He Comes Home,” has been broadcast nationally, on Direct TV, syndication networks and on affiliates of ABC, CBS, NBC, FOX, and CW to over 50 million households. In addition the video has 200,000+ spins on the internet, on sites including RollingStone.com, AOL.com. YouTube.com,  DigitalRodeo.com, Yallwire.com, and many more.
 
 Other members of Sable (the band) include: Mike Downing on sax, midi wind controller, and vocals. On drums is Jake Hanselman.

Sable is managed by Dr. Charles “Max” E. Million of Million Dollar Artists and records on American Eagle Recordings.


3. Heavy Metal band from Valencia, Spain. Formed in 1982. Released a single in 86 and an EP in 87.

4. New Zealand Drum N Bass Producer… Real Name Ben Sharp… Based In Wellington NZ. works for Weta Digital doing computer madness compositing… long time DnB representative for the capital & his bedroom. .

5. Perth, Australia based producer John Dewhurst who creates electronic music. His debut self titled EP was released in February 2013 with the track Shimmer receiving rotation on triple J, <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sable">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.