In 1987 Janne on drums, Tommi on guitar, Sami on guitar, Miku on bass and Hannu on vocals started the band under a name Criminal Assault which released a four-track tape including three songs. In the beginning it was kind of a fun project.

In 1988 it turned more serious. At the same year we changed the name to Sacred Crucifix. During -´88 we made a decision to say goodbye to Hannu because he was not capable of singing these "Realms Of Darkness" songs, so Miku and Tommi took over the vocal duties.

In the summer of -89 we jumped to studio to make R.O.D -demo. We started distributing "R.O.D" and surprisingly it became quite a success in the underground scene. Then in 1990 we went to Soundmix-studio, Oulu to record a promo-tape. A few labels were interested in us, but we had some bad luck and things did not work out. Then Tommi and Janne went to army and Miku moved to Sweden.

In 1993 Sacred Crucifix was reformed again. Janne on drums, Tommi on guitar, Jarkko on guitar, Essi on bass and Tommo on vocals. Style was more technical than before. In 1994 Sacred Crucifix went to Tico-Tico studio, Kemi, and made another promo-tape, which did not meet the expectations at that time. In 1996 Jarkko moved to Jyväskylä and eventually joined Trio Niskalaukaus.

After a few years Miku moved back to Oulu, Finland and started to plan a reformation. Finally Janne moved also to Oulu and the band was back on the right track once again. In October 2002 we started rehearsing with Janne on drums, Tommi on guitar, Miku on bass and vocals.

From October 2002 to april 2003 we worked with 13 brand new songs. We also have 4 old songs on our play-list as well. Between 7:th and 10:th of May 2003, we recorded a promo tape, including 4 songs in Tonebox Studio, Oulu. Our style is an old-school Death Metal, as we had it as our main musical style within the period from 1988 to 1991.

09/11/2003 we had a conversation with our original member Sami Taimela. He was interested and jumped in to handle guitar duties with Tommi.

After Aeon of Chaos studio sessions we toured around Finland promoting our new material, The Last Path cd-single.

Cause Sami had lack of time, we signed a new guitarist, our old friend Toni Kyllönen. The choise was easy because we have played some gigs and several jamming sessions with him.

What now then? Well, all we can say the new kick ass material is recorded and we are getting ready for the tour.
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sacred+Crucifix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.