One of the newest up and coming bands in Canada's heavy metal roster has burst out of the gates with both guns blazing. Sacred Ally, well known to Alberta and especially Calgary's metal scene for their intense live shows and memorable songs; they have been honing their writing and live skills since their formation in the spring of 2005. With their long awaited debut in the works, Sacred Ally is storming the Canadian metal scene like never before; fast, aggressive, technical and fucking loud!

The History of Sacred Ally started out with jamming sessions between Tyler Gregg and Collin Wo which produced some of the riffs and structures for the songs "Valor in War" and "Final Juggernaut". The original vision was of a technical metal band, with fast riffs, dual solos and influences pulled from the best bands on the planet. The addition of Jason Oliynyk is what solidified the bands formation and added an extremely solid foundation for the band to build off of. Several weeks of jam sessions led to auditions for a singer and a bass player. As local bass players being somewhat of a rarity the addition of Erik Smistad came by pure luck, and his pure talent made him a perfect addition to the bands roster. What the band needed the most at this point was a singer. John Chaisson was called in to fill that void for the time being. A little time afterwards Pamela Porosky also joined the ranks with her keyboard skills.

Thus became the first incarnation of Sacred Ally. A few weeks later, there would be the first lineup change. Vern Thompson would fill the role of vocalist in place of John. It was a natural fit since the band had been abusing his studio and equipment for months exclusively!

Eager to start playing shows, Sacred Ally entered Roli Mack’s “Bandwarz” Sacred Ally’s debut show happened on Halloween 2005. With polished instruments in hand, they were ready to lose their ‘show’ virginity! The out come of that show was overwhelming. With overflowing kudos and votes they would advance. What was an impromptu show led them on a gauntlet to the finals.

Over three rounds of fierce competition. Sacred Ally has finally arrived at the finals. The finals also marked a beginning and an end of a chapter. This would be the first show without original member Pamela Porosky. With the taste of victory so near, Sacred Ally would pull out all stops and give it their all for this final round. After 4 rounds and elimination of 54 bands victory was theirs!

The next incarnation for Sacred Ally happened in the fall of 2006. Following the show with fellow metal heavyweights Caveat, Erik would decide to leave the band. With uncertainty as to who would fill Erik’s impressive bass skills, former Skulldozer frontman Pete Klassen stepped up to the plate.
June 30th, 2007 would be the next very big landmark date in the history of Sacred Ally. Their long awaited Cd "Balls Deep in Metal" was officially released! A 3 song Ep of testicle crushing power. This date also marked the departure of original member Jason Oliynyk.
After a summer long hiatus, the drummerless void has been filled. Heavy metal veteran Tom Ryan has officially filled Jason's impressive drum duties.

Two and a half years in the making, Sacred Ally is a serious contender on the Canadian metal scene. They will conquer then annihilate anything in their way. Just you wait and see!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sacred+Ally">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.