The Band Sacred Legacy was formed in the early 2006 with Shahyd as the key person of the band, After the performance in His 1st band “Syn” in the early 2004 he started his own Guitar solo career. After quitting the band Syn, he started experimenting with many genres of music and got inspired by Thrash, Melodic and Progressive Metal and neo Classic. He also got inspiration from Japanese Anime soundtracks .One main reason Shahyd plays music is because of his daughter Mishka, who also inspires him to keep on going.

In 2006, Shahyd started his own solo career and started working on his first album. He wanted to bring a change to the Maldivian music scene with his music. So he released his first album on 23rd September 2006 which was “The Sacred Legacy”. He launched the album with a successful show featuring Tormenta and Serenity Dies. Thus was the band’s first performance and Shahyds 1st solo album.

The band has released their 1st album “Apocalypse” on 5th July 2007, on Domination Fest ’07. And also in the same year Sacred Legacy particiapted in the “Rockstorm Festival: Freak Your Senses”

After So many Succesful Shows The Band Started working on the 2nd album (Undying Heart) and was released in November 2008 which was one of the melodical Albums of the year featuring many maldivians Artists.

Due to their great music and stunning performance in the maldives breakout fest 2009, the band has signed with an endorsement contract with one of the leading companies in maldives. Fomax Maldives Pvt. Ltd

In 2010 the band had their greatest success with burn rock concert and breakout festival with has made the band fans base much bigger than before.

The band’s cuurent lineup is Shahyd and Iku on Guitars, Azzam on Bass and Vox, Wadde on Drums. With two succesful albums released, the male’ winners of last years breakout fest is currently working on their 3rd album entitled THE LEGACY BEGINS. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sacred+Legacy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.