Sacrificed is a heavy metal band formed in Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil in 2004.

Using various aspects of Heavy Metal style as a whole, the group Sacrificed has been slowly gaining space in the Underground scene of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. The group consists of five young people who believe that in addition to interaction and musical knowledge, respect and friendship are key factors in the coexistence of any group and are those things that keeps Sacrificed together and with more and more will follow forward in the music market. 

It all started when, in mid-2004, Diego (guitar), Gustavo (drums) and Gabriel (bass) wanted to form a band to cover Metallica's songs. Victor, a school friend of Diego, had an interesting vocal power and assumed the vocal and the guitars. The group was called Metalbreath, a mixture of the name Metallica and the song MotorBreath. Rehearsed about a year and a half a diverse repertoire with Metallica's songs, but with little repercussion alongside the public. 

With the musical evolution of the group, came the need for a larger musical development. Therefore was needed a new singer. It was then, in May 2006, Diego knew the powerful voice of Fabrício in a gig. The test was done and then Fabrício became the new vocalist of Metalbreath. 

From there the group decided to do not only interpretations of Metallica, but other bands like Megadeth, Pantera, Iced Earth, Ozzy, Iron Maiden, Black Sabbath, among others. They changed the name of the group to Sacriffice and began to work also with songs of their own composition. 

After some turmoil, the band went through a reformulation. With the departure of Fabrício and Gabriel, was invited to take over the vocals, the prodigy who has a lovely voice, but very powerful, Kell Hell (former Helltown and Vienna) and to occupy the position of the 5-string, the owner of a very powerful picking and great stage presence, Bruno Bavose (former Heaven Ghost and Culttruth). 

After released their first EP, which took the name "Streets of Fear", in February 2008, the band changed its name to Sacrificed, to avoid problems with a homonymous Canadian Sacrifice. 

At this moment, the group works for the release of their first album. Alongside of this work, the group has just released a self-titled EP to ease the wait of the first "full-leght. 

Sacrificed searches to take off in the national metal scene leading to the listeners an innovative Metal with great passion for its ideal.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sacrificed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.