Sacred Serenity was formed back in the summer of 2008 by four friends looking to just jam and make music for fun. The original lineup consisted of Pat Scanlon, Dave Jamison, Glenn Reiss, and Nate Parker. The band had no aspirations of fame or fortune. The only objective was simply to cover songs and enjoy playing the music they loved. Towards the end of 2008, they recorded 3 original songs; "Death In Solitude", "Enemy In The Clouds", and (of course) "Dorsal Fin". The songs were uploaded to their myspace, but no further progress was made due to seperation for schooling. The future of the band was uncertain and unspoken of.

With the stagnant state of the band, Nate and Pat began talking about getting the members together to write and record an EP. Shortly thereafter, Glenn and Dave were no longer interested in being in Sacred Serenity. Without Dave and Glenn, they continued to write without other members. A search for new members lasted for the better part of a year, without results. Members would come and go, but Nate and Pat still remained.

In late summer of 2009, Conor Supranowicz helped Sacred Serenity out by playing drums and recording their EP, titled "Enemy In The Clouds". The 3 original songs redone and 4 new songs written by Nate and Pat during this period. The EP was released for free download and the band seemed to still cling to life. But nothing ever came of the EP, and members were still absent from the lineup.

The future seemed bleak for Sacred Serenity. Nate had since joined a band called "At Long Last" and Pat was working several jobs. Through all the trials and tribulations, there was still talk of looking for new members. With no luck finding new members over the span of close to a year, Nate and Pat had decided to ask Dave to refill the spot of bassist. With little discussion and talk of future plans, Dave rejoined and the 3 original members were on board to revive Sacred Serenity.

The search for a drummer began shortly after, in late 2009. After several tryouts, the band came across someone through a craigslist ad response. A drummer named Kyle Peronteau. He was a perfect fit for the band and in no time at all, the band began to practice regularly and write new songs. Excited and determined to take the band to the next level, the newly full lineup decided to write new songs immediately for an EP to record in the spring of 2010.

In March the band went to record their new EP, "Divulgence" with Jake Clarke. 4 new songs with 2 songs redone with Kyle on drums. The EP was then released in May of 2010 and the band printed CDs to sell at future shows. People in the area started to take notice and the momentum was finally building. The band was finally ready to play shows and get out of the basement and go outside of the "myspace recording" days. The band began playing shows in the Bucks County area to gain exposure and experience playing shows and live songs. For the next 6 months, the band played shows as often as possible to promote their new EP.

After 6 months of playing shows, the band decided that they weren't making the progress that they had hoped for. The band's chemistry and bond was stronger than ever, so they decided it was time to start writing new material and to keep playing shows in the meantime. Shows were becoming more frequent and the band was getting more notice.

In June of 2011, Sacred Serenity entered Atrium Audio with Carson Slovak (August Burns Red, Texas In July, This Or The Apocalypse) to record their latest EP, "Crossroads". This 4 track EP will be the biggest step forward the band has taken yet. With greater chemistry, determination and passion for their music, Sacred Serenity will be a band to look out for. The release for "Crossroads" is set for September 17, 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sacred+Serenity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.