Sad Night Dynamite, which is composed of childhood friends Josh and Archie, are doing more than sculpting funnies though—they’re redefining what it means to have captivating appeal in an oversaturated and occasionally banal marketplace. At their intercept lies a blended production of hip-hop, electronic, and rock, and it’s clear this is just the warm-up phase. Despite the fact that doing whatever feels right in the moment has been dramatically constricted in potential this year, Sad Night Dynamite will help us get there, as they revel in honest truths while escaping into a surreal world. When asked about the polarity of realism and fantasy, Josh insists, “If you over-indulge in either of those, it’s probably not going to be good. When you’ve had our kind of life no one really wants to hear about your troubles because they aren’t really that important in the grand schemes of things. What we have found interesting was flipping that and playing into it in a way that you will hopefully hear in the future. But sometimes indulging in your feelings too much becomes rather boring, so it is better to write a song that is pure escapism.”

“Gorillaz are still a huge inspiration,” Archie adds, reflecting on the duo’s venturing into everything from the hip-hop canon, lo-fi, and quintessentially British bands. “In our first singles, you can hear the Gorillaz influence in them. Not like we could ever tread on their clothes. To give Damon Albarn credit though, he was kind of the seed of this whole thing.” 

Sad Night Dynamite were built from the schoolyard up. The duo noted that when they first met in school, there was no intention of producing music, but somehow they wound up in some songwriting sessions, playfully proposing a handful of silly band names, before ultimately deciding on their hyperbolic moniker. The name, they share, reads similar to an emphatic comic emotion that contains their sound and ethos. “Now I get much less negativity [about the band name],”  Josh explains. “We like that people were split about it. It was like Marmite—they either liked it or didn’t. I guess that means you’re doing something right.” 

- Jasmine Rodriguez, Flaunt <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sad+Night+Dynamite">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.