A year after the self-release of the "Dead In The Dollhouse" demo EP, which gathered much positive feedback from fans and music environment, SadDoLLs found themselves again in the studio to record what would become their first full length debut album.

After the departure of some members during 2007, SadDoLLs ended up with what would be the best alignment to carry on with their plans for the future. The band's sound changed and became heavier, leaving space for more experimentation with different styles of gothic music as well as developing elements from electro and metal influences.

The band has performed in numerous venues in Athens, collaborating with several remarkable bands from the Greek music scene. Amongst the live shows that SadDoLLs have put on, they achieved to perform as the support band for the German Gothic Rockers "Lacrimas Profundere" back in April 2008, receiving many and very good reviews from the media.

Their debut album is called "About Darkness", it includes 12 tracks and has a total length of almost 50 minutes. The whole album development took over 12 months to complete throughout 2008-2009, combining the great cooperation and ideas between the band and "Fragile Studios" owned by Vangelis Yalamas.

This year, SadDoLLs signed with "Emotion Art Music". Under their promotion and management, the album's release was set for October 2009 along with the first music video. The band also had two live appearances on Greek TV channel shows such as MAD's "Mad Day Live" and Ant1's "Radio Arvyla".

In September of 2009, SadDoLLs had the honour to open the gig for "Paradise Lost" in Athens, giving a great performance and receiving very good reviews. That was a great chance for the band to promote the new album and become more famous.

Finally, the album is out now, along with the first music video "Watch Me Crawl Behind". Future performances are being scheduled on a regular basis allowing the band to express its charisma and attitude on stage.

Stay tuned for upcoming news and get ready for what's approaching your way!

For Booking / Management / PR contact:
E: management@saddolls.com

For Band contact:
E: info@saddolls.com

For Label contact:
Emotion Art Entertainment & Music Ltd
15 K. Varnali Str. / 142 31 N. Ionia / Athens / Greece
T: +30 210 27 23 581-2 / F: +30 210 27 57 239
E: info@emotion-art.eu <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SadDoLLs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.