Saeculum started off halfway 2004, to pump some fresh venom in the veins of the perishing blackmetalscene.

Stynn (drums), Laster (Guitars) and Lazaruh (bass) were the founding members of the band and they soon began creating their own songs and started to rehearse.
But a band needs a singer, so Molestrator was summoned and he accepted the task.

Saeculum manufactures sophisticated, aggressive and dysphoric black metal and lyrics
that narrate about actual world problems,religious evil and personal stuff in a symbolic manner.

After less than a year, the first gig was a fact. In a short time they played several shows, being

mostly small venues with unfamiliar bands, but later after some good reactions on their first promotional mini-cd “Exordium” Saeculum headlined the Mezz and played with bands such as Marduk in Nighttown and with Helheim in the Baroeg.

Lazaruh (bass) decided to leave the band due to unsurpassable musical differences.
Schoft, (Brutus) and Vlerk (Brutus) will complete the band on stage and in the studio.
Right now Laster is concentrating on creating new music that will be recorded on the first full length album later in 2006 which has the working title:“Evil Evolved”.

So in the near future, Saeculum will first play the Summerdarkness-festival in Utrecht in august and then focus on recording the full-length, which will contain some rewritten songs
from “Exordium”, and a couple of new ones; with a duration of more than 45 minutes.
This album will separate the men from the boys and will bring Saeculum to the top of blackmetal music. After that release we will try to arrange a tour through Europe with a
more experienced and known band to present our music to a larger crowd.
Offcourse we will continue playing separate shows.

Live and on stage we use visuals like paint, smoke, fire and blood to create the atmosphere suited for our music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saeculum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.