It's not often that a band can be described by more than just their music. Often times you will hear a song or a band and categorize it or them into a specific genre. Safe Haven is known for making the type of music that has the ability to transform the listener to another time and place. A combination of melodic guitars, punching base tones and transcending drums, their music is on the cusp of greatness according to national media outlets. Safe Haven can't be described simply by their music because of what they do off the stage. Whether it's hanging out with fans until every single one has left the building, sponsoring an orphanage in Guatemala (and flying down on their own dime to personally deliver Christmas presents), or even donating 1/3 of all album sales to provide mosquito nets for the less fortunate in Malawi, Africa, Save Haven rocks the floor, walls and doors out of every venue they play because they play with a purpose. They are delivering dreams both on and off the stage.

Their story began in their parents' garage in La Mirada, California. Their first show was in that same garage and was performed in front of every kid in the neighborhood. And thus began the dream. Shortly after this first show they scraped up all the money they had and in 2005 released their self-produced album “Outside The Box”. This paved the way for numerous shows and constant touring. The follow up album “Setting Up & Tearing Down” released in 2007 ensued a west coast invasion as well as several tours through Central America, Mexico and Hawaii.

Dropping in the fall of 2009 comes their highly anticipated national release. Brian Whitman is at the helm as engineer and producer, Zach Lind of Jimmy Eat World directing all drum tones, and a team of industry veterans helping out, this album is combining the raw grit that has made the band what they are today with the dreams of what they are rapidly becoming. Safe Haven is a band that plays with passion and a desire to change the world. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Safe+Haven">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.