1) Sagaris is Neoclassical Melodic Death Metal band from Slovenia.

2)Sargon and Kharon began playing together in Izmir, in 1999. After a short time, Furor had joined the band, their performance speed up. Sakarya river’s old name ‘Sagaris’, which is the river that separates goodness and evil, was decided as the group name. Every member’s musical feeling and technique was so close to each other, so this helped them exist fast. Sagaris, began to produce their own compositions without wasting time, continue to work regularly, but at the same time, the band had always a bassist problem. ‘Blooddawn’ that was included the band as a bassist at last, decided to leave from the band during their record performances. In 2004, the band completed the composition. During this year, they had several concerts in Ozze and Dungeon bars in Izmir, and took some positive critics from several spectators. In summer, 2004, Sagaris completed their records in a month in Negative Music Studio. The album’s mastering and mixing practices were performed by Ant Balci. Lyrical concept was based on people’s trouble with rituals in which they are in every second of their life and that restrict their ego, and also importance of their role in this chaos. In 2005, Sagaris signed a contract with Poem Productions, and being in market was started to intense performance. In January 2006, the first Sagaris album ‘ RAISING THE OLDEST’, based on pure black metal with 8 songs, was available in music markets. After of the presentation of the new album in a short time, the band met the bassist Hyperion, who is still playing in the band called Adytum . 

The band’s first concert after the album was in Izmir in Opus bar with Hecatomb , and Ketum which are so prestigious and UCK Grind which is from Istanbul. After this concert, some metal music magazines criticized the band in a positive way about the concert performance of them. In 2006, Sagaris took part in Rock Station Festival (Ankara) in which metal music communities came together and which was so prestigious. Day by day, the great support from their fans was on the top and Sagaris began to be popular by means of their perfect performances. The album took positive criticism from webzine and some magazines which are common in abroad. German Metal Message announced ‘Raising the Oldest’ album in that year’s best 10 metal albums. After these positive criticisms, Sagaris gave a concert that has been told about for months with Vader which is known as ‘Metal Gods’, in Istanbul. The performance in this concert increased the fans’ support. After all these actions, Sagaris maintained the fame with their performance on stage, their aggressiveness and interaction with audiences, in metal music community. In 2007, Sagaris met again with their fans in a concert whose participation rate is high in Izmir. With audiences’ great attendance, they gave a successful concert one more time. Sagaris had a concert in Izmir again soon, and acquired cult audiences and were evaluated as one of the best of their genre. In October 2007, Sagaris published a video clip which consists of images fromRock Station Festival . This video clip took lots of positive criticisms from metal fans who are internal and from abroad and from the bands’ fans.

Sagaris is still working on their second album, and they are in intense and a detailed work. Most of the composition of the second album is completed. Sagaris explained their new concept as a more aggressive and technical black metal in this album. In December 2007, Sagaris will complete the second album’s promotion, and in April 2008, they will be in studio for the second album record. 
Official Sagaris Web Site
Official Sagaris Myspace Page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sagaris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.