There is more than one artist with this name:

1. A rapper/producer from Birmingham, AL
2. A rock musician from the United States
3. A rock band from Miami, Florida
4. A hard rock band from Chicago, Illinois
5. A DJ from Northern Ireland
6. A psychedelic rock band from London, UK
7. An experimental/traditional/world music project from Ekaterinburg, Russia
8. An experimental poetic duo from Johannesburg, South Africa
9. Power/progressive metal band from Zagreb, Croatia.

1) Gregory Williams, Jr. (better known by his stage name Sage) is a rapper and hip hop producer from Birmingham, AL. He has also lived in Miami, FL. Williams is a founding member of the collective AliveSinceForever (ASF) and has released two albums under the namesake, Magic City Volume One and Ravens. Williams is currently a junior in high school and produces most of his own music as well as some of ASF's tracks (see Star Chasing (ft. EaSy & Carmine) by Kevin Abstract, Mrs. Suzie by Kevin Abstract & Easy, etc.)

2)  Sage was born on November 29 in the year of the Rooster, the love for music started when he was 10 years old, strumming the classical guitar and learning to play it. Flamenco, country music, and folk music were his earlier influences, also listening to Pink Floyd, Queen, Genesis, Alan Parson Project. It was a year later when he heard Mark Knopfler on the radio. "I was listening to the radio one day when I heard that, beautiful tune that captured my ears and my heart ".
It was an Instrumental piece "Local Hero" (from the movie), that was the first time he heard of Mark Knopfler. "That day changed my life".  "I decided to search more about that guitar player, before even knowing or hearing about Dire Straits". The rest is history.
For almost 10 years, He learned the guitar on his own, listening religiously to songs he loved, and learned the solos note for note.At this point Mark Knopfler was his main influence. listening also to: David Gilmour, B.B. king, Eric Clapton, Santana. At 23, for the first time he had his formal education in music.
During the next 2 years, while attending music school he exposed himself for the first time to Jazz, listening to: Larry Carlton, Joe Pass, Stanley Jordan.  Amos Hadani a great guitarist, musician, and later on a good friend, was the one who introduce me to Jazz guitar. I thank him for that, it opened my mind to another level. I can't wait to jam with him again, and learn some more stuff ". His love for classical music grew as well. His trip to CA ended at the MUSICIANS INSTITUTE in Hollywood.
For two years, He was absorbing any kind of information he could grasp; theory, business, playing, writing, and the most he wanted, COUNTRY GUITAR playing. "It was here where I first started to learn more in depth all the tricks behind country guitar playing. I Just wanted to learn some tricks and licks that I could not figure out on my own".  Steve Trovato, one of the finest guitar player on the planet took over to show him what he needed. "We used to get together early in the morning and learn some Chet Atkins, Mark Knopfler, and some other greatest tricks and licks. I do miss those days, Steve is a wonderful teacher and a wonderful person". During that time he was introduced to SEYMOUR DUNCAN at the NAMM show 1998. Since then Seymour and Sage are best of friends, and the NAMM shows are some of their favorite times, when they hang out, and share some licks with some of the greatest such as: Nokie Edwards (Ventures), James Burton, Albert Lee, Steve Trovato, and the list is too long to include in here.
Today, Sage also help Seymour as his personal assistant on is own free time, when he's with him on the road, and without him on his own. Sage is currently working on his album, hopefully to be complete by Summer.

3 Miami outfit, Sage, Sage By Sage appeared on the Illusion label (CM2004) in 1970. Not much is known about either the band or its label.
Sage' was a Tampa, FL based band that was founded in 1967. Sage began playing local dances and clubs which eventually brought the band to the attention of Blues Image's Mike Pinera who signed them to his small Illusion label.  It is widely rumoured that Illusion was some sort of a tax scam with albums by Sage and stable mates Hopney being given away or destroyed immediately upon release. 

4)  Sage is a female-fronted hard rock/metal band from Chicago, IL

5)  DJ Sage
Perhaps it was her musical training or just innate ability, but it was apparent from the start that Laura Totten aka, Sage’s musical sensibilities made her an exceptional DJ. Having started her musical endeavors at the age of 4, the first instrument Sage played was the piano. Her love of music, and talent had her soon graduating to the violin at the age of 6. Drums later became her instrument of choice as she began playing in punk bands in Ireland, where she spent most of her youth. Having worked in record stores, played in jazz and indie rock bands, she has always had an appreciation for all musical genres. From Choir to Music College, it was seemingly pre-destined that Sage would choose a career in music.

For many years (1997 - 2003), Sage was closely connected with the skateboard community. Her first connection being with “Circa Foorwear” as one of their first DJ sponsorees. In 1999 she was approached by the worlds largest skate shoe company “DC Shoes: and asked to join their team of DJ’s. They’ve featured her in 2 ads, co-designed a dj bag with Dieselboy and modeled for them in their international buyers catalogue. She was even presented with a very rare DC shoes logo ring.

For over 7 years from 1997 to 2004 she frequently toured Europe gaining devoted fans every time she played. The United states in which she helped pioneer the sound of drum n bass music she was playing on a week to week/day to day basis in different towns and cities nationwide.

In 2004 after touring constantly and the feeling the effects of the unfortunate passing of her father, Sage needed a well deserved break. She decided stop taking bookings and to take a few years off from djing and travelling and focus on herself and various other interests and hobbies that were put on the backburner while her popularity began to peak as a DJ. She rediscovered how much she enjoyed different aspects of her musical training and played in a few rock bands, singing and playing drums as well as working on acoustic and electronic music both as a performer and songwriter. She now realizes the importance of balancing her musical career and interest with othe aspects of her life and finds making music refreshing and exciting again. With this renewed energy, in 2008 she has decided to travel again, and has regained a new perspective on DJing and to the delight of her still loyal following has decided to take bookings again.

Now residing in Belfast N. Ireland (UK) with her mother. She intends to focus her time on song writing/production and is actively producing Techno and various other forms of music from indie rock to dubstep.

She and her record label business partner, Susie Lee (San Francisco) are giving their label “Phylum Recordings” life again this coming year. Stay tuned for online releases coming in the spring.

Sage is a female DJ and producer named Laura Totten, also in groups Triadd & Phunckateck

6.  Sage 
Dark heavy grooves from London.

7.  SAGE creates music of traditional and experimental origin with influences from Russian root singing culture, middle Asia hoomey singing, Australian didgeridoo vibration, and also live electronic music. They combine musical and dance performances to fulfill each other. They try to reach some basic conditions of ancient songs, music and dance perfoming culture.
sageworldmisic.bandcamp.com or listen more on soundcloud.com/sage_project

8.  SAGE creates experimental poetic alternative and electronic music. https://sagemusicsa.bandcamp.com

9. Sage is a Croatian heavy/power/prog metal band formed in the city of Zagreb in 2013.
Their debut album Anno Domini 1573 was recorded in JM Sound studio (Zagreb, Croatia) by Franjo Valentic and Fedor Boic and produced by Casey Grillo - the drummer and producer from the american metal band Kamelot. Songs were mixed in "Morrisound studios" (Florida) by Jim Morris, and supervised by producer Casey Grillo.  The album is currently being mastered by Jim Morris at "Morrisound studios".
Anno Domini 1573 is a concept album that tells a story about the Croatian–Slovene Peasant rebellion that happened in the year 1573. Eight videos were filmed for the songs: Rivers Will Be Full of Blood, Rebellion, Wolf Priest, DragonHeart, Two Souls, Blacksmith's Tale, Man of Sorrow and Join Us (feat. Casey Grillo).
Sage are: Davor Bušljeta - vocals, Enio Vučeta - guitar & backing vocals, Branimir Habek - guitar & backing vocals, Marko Karačić - bass & backing vocals, Andrej Božić - keyboards & backing vocals, Goran Mikulek - drums







 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.