ORIGIN:

Saille was founded by Dries Gaerdelen [keyboards] in 2008, in order to create his favorite style of
music (melodic black metal with a threatening feel, like Tartaros, Limbonic Art and Keep of Kalessin).
The collaboration with Jonathan Vanderwal [guitars/vocals] was a logical result of their longstanding
cooperation in their previous band Mortifer. Filip Dupont of Gorath participated in writing lyrics and
helping with the vocals. Shortly after Gert Monden [drums] of In-Quest was added to the line-up the
development of the songs could proceed.

RECORDING DEBUT:

The recordings for the first album “Irreversible Decay” started at the end of 2009 in Shumcot Studio.
During these sessions they met Reinier Schenk [guitars] of Fleshmould and he became a member
of the band. As a result of the addition of several classical trained guest musicians the sessions
were spread over several months. The debut album was finalized in September 2010. After being
contacted by several labels, Saille chose to work with Code666 records and the album “Irreversible
Decay” was released March 4th 2011.

LIVE 2011 - 2012:

At first Saille was only intended as a studio project. However, it soon became clear the music should
be brought to life. With the addition of Didier Vancampo [bass], a live-band was formed and several
shows followed. Thanks to the good reviews and their solid live-reputation, Saille played amongst acts
as Melechesh, Izegrim, Gorath and more.The live-shows of the first album were concluded with a spot
on Belgium’s biggest metalfest Graspop Metal Meeting 2012. At the end of 2012 another highlight
was their appearance on Eindhoven Metal Meeting [The Netherlands].

RECORDING SUCCESSOR:

In July 2012 the band hit the Shumcot Studio again to record their second album entitled “Ritu”.
With lyrics inspired by death rites in ancient cultures, combined with new member Dennie
Grondelaers’[vocals] interest for H.P. Lovecraft and Cthulhu, the next album had a much darker
setting. Again classical skilled guest musicians were invited to create the irreplaceable real sounds:
flugelhörn, cello, violin, théremin, tuba, trombone and much more.

After two months of intensive recording sessions, the final mix was finished in September and sent
to the Norwegian mastering specialist Tom Kvålsvoll (Strype Audio). Known for mastering black
metal classics Mayhem, Emperor, Arcturus, Limbonic Art, Ulver, Vreid and many others. On January
18th 2013 “Ritu” saw the light of day.

LIVE in 2013:

To promote the album release, Saille embarked on their first tour in January 2013, with Transylvanian
black metal legends Negura Bunget.


http://www.saille.be <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saille">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.