Saint Lucifer was conceived in late 2010 when ex Harlots, Paindivision and current Beware of the Dog guitar/vocalist Jordan Howe wrote the 1st song for the album "Ain't Dead Yet" 'Originally I was looking at writing a hard rock album much in the ACDC Airbourne mould as I'm a huge fan of that style but after the 1st song was written decided this would be more of a metal album"

Jordan states. "I was lucky enough from my time in the music scene to know some exceptional musicians and was very hopeful they would be keen to work with me on this project". 3 guys came to mind immediately. 1st there was Paul Woseen an original founding member of The Screaming Jets who I had know from before his time with the jets.

Paul is obviously an amazing bassist and back up singer as well as a well respected songwriter. Secondly there was Stu Marshall ex D currently with Paindivision and his epic new project Empires Of Eden. I'd had the pleasure and privilege of playing and touring with Stu in my last band Paindivision and we had a great mutual respect and friendship. Stu is without doubt my favourite Australian metal guitarist so it was a no brainer to ask if he would play lead guitar on the album.

Lastly it was down to seeking a drummer. My 1st choices were Wayne Campbell ex Mortal Sin, Grungeon, White Trash and Joe Rahme my old skins man from Paindivision. Both of these guys are exceptional drummers and guys I get along well with and respect. I decided to ask Wayne just because I thought think having too many Paindivision guys together again well we may as well just make a Paindivision record! All the guys requested I send them the material to have a listen and by that time I had written the 1st 3 songs so forwarded them on. Luckily for me all the guys loved the material and committed to the project.

The album was recorded primarily at Machine Men Studios in Sydney with ultra talented Engineer/Producer Christian Lauria. Christian was the perfect guy to look after the recording of this album as he is not only brilliant in the studio but is also a very talented bassist currently playing with Sydney prog metal band Modern Murder. All the rhythm guitars and vocals were recorded before Wayne, Stu and Paul came into the studio to do there parts. Paul spent a day and a half putting down his parts and Wayne was able to record all of the drums in a single day. Stu put lead and harmony guitars down at different times before I finished of with my lead vocals. I also had a very talented young lady named Jenna Bloom come into the studio to record some extra lead vocals for a couple of the songs as well as having Paul fly back up from Melbourne to record extra lead and backing vocals. The album was now sounding great but needed a good mixer to bring it up to speed. Adrian grigerioff was recommended to me and after meeting with Adrian and listening to some of his previous work decided he was the man for the job. Adrian spent several days mixing the album before we were all satisfied it was time to look for a mastering guy. I had heard some of little known USA Mastering Engineers Steve Nagasaki's work and really liked it so contacted him and sent him the files. Steve did a fantastic job with the master doing several different versions until I had found one I thought did justice to the whole recording.

All of the guys on this album brought there own unique and quite brilliant playing styles to the album making it what it is today. A video was filmed for the 1st single "Monster" that can be seen on YouTube. We all worked very hard to make sure "The New Messiah" was an album that we hoped would stand the test of time.

With only a very limited budget to work with I think we have been able to deliver what we think is a really great album. We really hope you enjoy listening to it as much as we enjoyed making it. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saint+Lucifer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.