Isaac Sakima known professionally as Sakima, is an English singer-songwriter. Sakima's music frequently explores LGBT themes not typically portrayed in mainstream music.

Sakima is a London-based singer-songwriter. His debut track "Energy" as premiered by Zane Lowe on BBC Radio 1 in August 2014. "Energy" is a "moody pop ballad". He has worked with Cyril Hahn and Ryan Hemsworth. Sakima was working with a Chicago-based manager Ardie Farhadieh and the company Wick Management. Farhadieh connected Sakima with Jakwob and his label Boom Ting for his song "Energy". In 2014, Sakima was managed by the UK-based company, Empire.

In May 2017, Sakima released his debut EP, Facsimile containing four-tracks. Out describes Facsimile as "an accidental gateway into queer eroticism". The opening track is titled "I Used To Have An En Suit". Other tracks include "He's Trippi" and "Happy Hr". "He's Trippi" was influenced by Zayn Malik's "She". Sakima liked the song but noticed the pronouns and highly sexualized nature of the song. He wanted to release a song using pronouns applicable to gay people.

He released his EP Ricky on 13 October 2017. In the seven-track EP, Sakima sings about the rejection of heteronormativity and explores Polari. The track "Daddy" featuring YLXR, used Polari in a queer-themed song inspired by "Work from Home". Sakima released the single "Death Is in the Air" on 16 February 2018 after hearing Justin Tranter's interview on the And the Writer Is... podcast. He released the LGBT-themed single "Show Me" in 2018. It explores homophobia and cruising for sex.

In 2018, R3hab released the album The Wave including the track "Back To You" with Sakima. On 14 September 2018, Sakima released the single "Holy Water" from his upcoming debut album Project Peach scheduled for release in 2019. Joshua Bote of Billboard describes "Holy Water" describes the song "with a reverb-and-trap-heavy fog surrounding him, he treads through self-love as a spiritual exercise, in effect, turning RuPaul’s iconic mantra into a prayer of sorts". His single "Apps" was inspired by hookup culture and the relationship complications caused by dating apps. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sakima">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.