Salaam Remi Gibbs, better known as Salaam Remi, is a hip hop producer and keyboard player, known for his association with Nas, Amy Winehouse, Fergie, Miguel and his reggae-tinged (often referred to as "broken-bottle") approach to production. On some releases in 2012 such as Girl on Fire by Alicia Keys and R.E.D. by Ne-Yo, Remi's productions are credited as Salaamremi.com.

The son of studio musician Van Gibbs, Salaam first appeared on record as the keyboard player on Kurtis Blow's 1986 release Kingdom Blow. In the late 1980s Salaam began mixing records. His first full production was in 1992, for the hip-hop group Zhigge. He has also worked with the Fugees and Black Sheep.

Salaam Remi has been associated with releases like Lil' Flip's "I Need Mine", Ini Kamoze's "Here Comes the Hotstepper", The Fugees' multi-platinum The Score LP, and Toni Braxton's "You're Makin Me High." He also produced 10 tracks on the 2002 UK sensation Ms. Dynamite's album titled A Little Deeper, including the hugely successful lead single "Dy-Na-Mi-Tee", which had moderate crossover success in the U.S. market[citation needed]. Salaam contributed tracks to Jurassic 5's 2006 LP Feedback and Nas' 2006 album Hip Hop is Dead and, more recently, racked up production credits on Frank, the platinum debut from North London soul-jazz singer Amy Winehouse. He also worked on her follow up, Back to Black, and was producing her third album that was to be released in 2011 up until her death. Remi also worked with Nelly Furtado on her first Spanish language album, Mi Plan. Remi's active projects in late 2008 include Jazmine Sullivan, Nas, Free, Nick Harrison, Lemar, Noel Gourdin, Julian Perretta, Leona Lewis, Corrine Bailey Rae, and Craig David, as well as many film and TV projects.

In addition to his work with other musical artists, Remi has delved into the film industry. He has worked on the soundtracks for Office Space, Zoolander, The Departed, Blood Diamond, and Sex and the City. He also scored the Mike Tyson documentary, TYSON, worked as executive music producer on After the Sunset and Rush Hour 3, and was music supervisor and composer for a 2008 TV pilot called "Blue Blood". Salaam Remi was nominated for Non-Classical Producer of the Year at the 55th Grammy Awards, an award won by Dan Auerbach. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Salaam+Remi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.