NEW songs from "The Constant State of Change" now in player!!!

CD releases nationally in October on ToneCrash Records.  CD release party 10/25/09 at The Rutledge in Nashville, TN.  6 – 9 PM Central, this event will be webcast so fans across the globe can tune in!

As seen with:  Switchfoot, Decyfer Down (INO Records / Columbia), Pillar (Provident / Sony), Kutless (BEC),Fireflight (Flicker / Sony BMG), December Radio (Slanted), Everlife (Hollywood), Building 429 (INO), Grits (Revolution Art) , Sanctus Real (Sparrow), The Afters (INO / Columbia), Stephanie Smith (Gotee), Manic Drive (Whiplash / Provident), Plumb (Curb), After Edmund, Big Daddy Weave (Fervent / Curb / Warner Bros), Group 1 Crew (Fervent / Curb / Warner Bros), Remedy Drive (Word / Curb / Warner Bros), KJ52 (BEC), Everyday Sunday (Inpop / EMI), Children 18:3 (Tooth & Nail), Spoken, John Reuben (Gotee), Nashville Predators (NHL), and many more.

Salient has rocked colleges across North America including Tennessee Tech, Western Kentucky University, Mount Vernon Nazarene University, Rochester College, Vanderbilt University, Texas Christian University, Oklahoma Christian University, Abilene Christian University and Western Kentucky University.  Salient is a full time professional signed band that provides a high energy rock show backed by nearly seven years of national touring experience and radio play. 

SALIENT can perform on your production or can provide a professional line array concert sound system that will cover up to 5,000 seats (lighting also available and all subject to additional charges).  Call today to discuss your event:  615.377.0057.

Salient has risen to the forefront of alternative music with their dynamic live show, melodic rock sound, and lyrics that depict the universal search for hope and redemption in a broken world. Signed to Tennessee based ToneCrash Records in May 2009, the band started tracking their fifth project with Grammy nominee and Dove Award winner Barry Blair (founding writer/guitarist from Audio Adrenaline, producer for Bleach, Slingshot 57, Air Five) soon thereafter.  The disc was mixed by Allen Solman (Mute Math, This Beautiful Republic), and mastered by Brad Blackwood (Black Eyed Peas, Train, Evanescence).  “The Constant State of Change” will be available in October.

Like most career bands, Salient’s sound and lyrical depth have matured markedly as they have toured and written. Today their high energy rock vibe draws comparisons to some pretty weighty groups including The Foo Fighters, Live, Collective Soul, Lifehouse and Stone Temple Pilots.  Their current release, Dawn Follows Dark, was produced by Dave Clo (All Star United) and has been garnering accolades through various international online music sites. 

Originally formed in the fall of 2002, Salient quickly gained momentum with their raw energy and straight ahead rock shows. Their first full-length album, Pieces of Me, was independently produced and released in June of 2004. An EP, Salient, showcasing the growth of the band’s sound followed in January 2006. The EP resulted in the first acclaimed Salient song “Immortalize Me” thanks to the impact of online promotion and distribution through sites like Garageband.com and iTunes. An independent Rock Radio campaign for the song through Least of These Radio Promotions gained the band approximately 40 adds including numerous syndicated programs rebroadcast worldwide. The track remains in the all time Top 30 at Garageband.com and was re-cut for Dawn Follows Dark.

Vocalist Mark Duckworth and guitarist Bobby Reinsch have traveled the world playing music and bring a confidence to the stage that can only result from the tests of time and experience. Reinsch was a founding member of three time Dove nominated band “Daily Planet” before touring with Grammy nominated and Dove Award winner Joy Williams and regularly filling in with Denver and the Mile High Orchestra. While Duckworth toured in a vocal band opening for Acappella and numerous other indie vocal groups prior to founding Salient. 

Pittsburgh area drummer and former youth pastor Jeromy Rowe joined the band spring 2007 immediately enhancing the band’s sound with the addition of his vocal harmonies and compelling drumming. Jeromy toured extensively with the popular indie bands Witness Protection Program and The Aaron Greer Band. The current lineup solidified early in 2009 with the addition of former Difference United bassist Craig Woelber bringing the low-end on bass. Intent on learning from their lessons in the music business, these four have formed a bond that seeks to weather the cyclical nature of industry approval and come out stronger together on the other side. 

From the beginning the response has been overwhelming. Fans from across the world have taken notice of Salient and a broad cross-section of society has found a band that they can truly relate to. “I believe that people are tired of having musical superficiality shoved at them by executives in suits,” remarks Duckworth. “Our goal is to share our lives through our music. It’s time to get real.”


BOOKING 
mark @ salientband.com 
or 
333 Artist Agency / Jeff Karnes
jeff@333agency.com
574.238.4039 

RADIO PROMOTIONS:
Seth Holloway / Least of These

MANAGEMENT / BOOKING
Scott Williams / Prodigal Son Entertainment (NACA, GMA, NNYM, NFO)
615-377-0057 office
866-899-7536 fax
sw @ prodigalson-ent.com
115 Penn Warren Dr, Ste 300 - Box 380
Brentwood, TN  37027  USA
www.myspace.com/prodigalsonentertainment

LABEL
Tone Crash Records 
Spring Hill, TN

Links:
www.salientband.com
www.myspace.com/salient
www.facebook.com  (salient)
www.shoutlife.com/salient
www.myccm.org/salient
www.youtube.com/salientband


Instrumentation
Mark Duckworth- lead vocals, guitar
Jeromy Rowe - drums, vocals
Bobby Reinsch- lead guitar, vocals
Craig Woelber - bass, vocals

Discography
The Constant State of Change - Tone Crash Records (releases 10/16/09)
Dawn Follows Dark - 2008
Salient - 2006
Pieces of Me - 2004
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Salient">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.