Sallah are not collectively stupid. While goofy assholes we may be, we are not completely clueless. We are, in fact, aware that writing a metal album about Indiana Jones is unorthodox. So in case you were wondering, yes, we know. We'd like to take this opportunity to explain a bit about why we chose to write about Indiana Jones and not about, say, Satan. You can call this our Indiana Jones Manifesto

We were all set to write this long winded explanation about how the Indiana Jones character and his role in the films serves as an embodiment of many of our personal philosophies and issues we feel are important: The struggle between religious belief and scientific fact, between self worship and selflessness, between distrust of organized religion and tolerance of human belief. The equation of religion with mysticism, the importance of intellectual pursuit and the annihilation of stupidity, the emphasis on human curiosity- all of these things are important to us and we see them in these films.

However, rather than describe this in any more detail, Sallah is going to be real with you. In a musical environment completely overcrowded with bands that sound identical and lyrics that are absolutely fucking terrible, we're doing something to stand out. Frankly, we wish more bands would do the same. In Sallah's humble opinion, anything that a metal band can do to make itself more unique should be welcomed with open arms, and more than anything else, our Indiana Jones themed album is a representation of this. We are fed up with repetitive metal.

We all saw Temple of Doom at a very young age. I can't help but think that seeing a man get his heart ripped from his chest and lowered into a pit of fire is partly responsible for why I got into metal in the first place. Nile writes about Egypt, we write about Indiana Jones.

In summary, if you don't like it, go fuck a goat and die of AIDS.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sallah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.