Salmon Hater is a non-existent heavy metal band, manufactured in 2002 by Adam Spencer and Wil Anderson of Triple J breakfast radio in Australia.

The name came about on air after the station had played a promo for Triple J's metal show, Full Metal Racket. The pair had an impromptu conversation, making reference to the names of many metal bands. Anderson asked Spencer what his favourite metal band was, and Spencer, put on the spot, gave the fake name "Salmon Hater".

Other details made up about the band were that they hailed from the hills of Glenelg (in Adelaide, South Australia; ironically although Adelaide is very hilly, Glenelg is actually quite a flat suburb), and that latest single was 6.66 - One Hundredth of the Number of the Beast. The title originated from the stereotypical "satanic" metal theme (e.g Iron Maiden's The Number of the Beast, etc), and Spencer's love for mathematics.

Within a couple of days, a listener had created a metal song by the given title for the duo to play on-air. Spencer and Anderson encouraged listeners to vote for the song in the annual Triple J Hottest 100 poll, for which votes were only a few days away from closing. Many people were surprised that the track reached number 26 in the Triple J Hottest 100 of 2002, and some fans of other bands were upset that Anderson and Spencer had influenced the poll.The Australian music television program Rage usually plays the Hottest 100 a couple of months after the countdown. This meant there would be an opportunity for a music video to accompany the track to be broadcast. Many volunteers assembled for the filming of the music video, which was broadcast not only on Rage, but is available on the Hottest 100 Vol. 10 DVD release.

Salmon Hater has not released any further works, though unverified details of its past discography have been published on many fan sites. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Salmon+Hater">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.