The beginning of SALTUS reaches as far as to the 1997, when Wojnar (guitar) begets the DARK FOREST band. Its irregular line-up, though, causes many rehearsal difficulties. Meantime, the band gets reinforced by Faun (vocal) and Bithorn (guitar.) At the same time the name has been changed to SALTUS. At the beginning of November 1997, the horde registers a demo / rehersal. titled “Inexploratus Saltus”, featuring: Bithorn – guitar, Wojnar – guitar, keyboards, Faun – vocals, Jack – drums. The material meets with various opinions, but the band is not happy with it. 1999 After ”Inexploratus Saltus” is recorded, the band changes its squad and starts to work on the new material, which gets recorded at the Legend Art Studio between April and November 1999. It is titled „Slowianska Duma” (Slavonic Pride) and consists of nine hymns played by: Faun (vocal,) Wojnar (guitar, keyboards,) Bithorn (guitar,) Darek (drums,) and the session musicians: Wojtek (bass) and Jacek (keyboards.) Thanks to the Nawia Production, the material gets released on the MCs. 2000 „Slowianska Duma” gets recorded on Cd/Lp and is distributed worldwide thanks to the Merciless Records. This album meets with favorable opinions both from the music press and the fans. Wojnar and Faun abandon the band, which continues to work on the “Slowianska Duma” successor. Now, the squad consists of Bithorn (guitar,) Darek (drums,) Sokaris (guitar,) Aldaron (bass.) 2001 Shortly after, the “Hail Pagan Europe” and ”Ablaze magazyn’’ CDs get released. They include compositions from the “Slowianska Duma” material. SALTUS begins to play concerts and is well received by the audience. In April, the band starts a record session at the DBX Studio in Warsaw. The result is the MCD „Symbole Przodków” (Symbols of Forefathers,) played by Bithorn (guitar,) Sokaris (guitar,) Aldaron (bass,) Darek (session drums,) Cukier (session vocal,) Greg (session guitar solo,) Jacek (session keyboards.) The material consists of four songs; one being a cover titled “Seasons in the abyss”, originally played by SLAYER. It is published on the CD split with LEGACY OF BLOOD and released by the Strong Survive Records. 2002 The band gets reinforced by Imp(drums) and Greg (vocals.) The horde rehearses more and more. As a result, they start to play concerts and work on the new material. This squad records the “Promo 2002” at the DBX Studio. Thanks to that, the band signs a contract to record a new CD. 2003/2004 Aldaron abandons the squad. Sagath takes over his place. At the turn of 2004 the band enters the DBX Studio yet again and records the “Imperium Slonca” (The Empire of the Sun) album. 2005/2006 At the beginning of 2005 the album gets released by the Eastside rec. The material presents a completely different face of Saltus. The press is very much satisfied with the album. Several months after the premiere Sokaris and Greg abandon the band, which from now on has to perform consisting only of three musicians desperately looking for some reinforcement. The middle of 2005 brings major changes to the band: Mortifer – a new guitarist, takes over the rhythm guitar, Bithorn becomes the bass-player, and Sagath takes over the guitar and vocals. The Eye Production reissues the “Slowianska Duma” CD. The band plays concerts with other groups like: Besatt, Thanatron, Beleth, Adultery, Taran, Belfegor etc. They still work on the successor of the “Imperium Slonca” album. 2006/2007 In January 2007 the Morbid Winter rec reissues “Symbols of forefathers & Inexploratus Saltus”. Saltus enters the KPD Studio to record the second album. They play more concerts with: Embrional, Watain, Anima Damnata, Pandemonium, Convent, Nomad, Sphere, Pyorrhoea etc. The Werewolf promotion & the Hell is sphere Promotion release the “Imperium Slonca” and “Symbols of forefathers & Inexploratus saltus” on the tapes. The important features of SALTUS music are powerful lyrics based on the Native Slavic Faith. They are performed in Polish and evoke the spirit of old times; the times of howling wolves; the times of mighty winds blowing through ancient oak forests; the times of our proud Slavic ancestors. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saltus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.