There are five artists named Salvador:
- A Christian band
- A Russian Latino rock band
- An instrumental post-rock band
- A sludge/stoner metal band
- A UK rapper

1)Salvador is a Christian band that blends their Latin heritage and contemporary pop songwriting. The band formed in 1999 in Austin, Texas.

Over the past 10 years in which Salvador has toured throughout the country and at times outside of it, a fan base began to rapidly grow. According to the members of the group, no matter how huge the fan base gets, they are still surprised and grateful to be a part of that environment, and even more surprising to them is that their fans keep coming and supporting.

Not only has growth been among the fans, but also within the group as well. Adding to the existing members of Nic Gonzales (lead vocals and guitar), his cousin Josh Gonzales (bass and background vocals), Chris Bevins (co-producer and keyboards), and Jared Solis (trombone and saxophone), the band completes its family with brass man Edwin Santiago (trumpet and flugelhorn), Ben Cordonero (drummer)  and Robert Vilera (percussionist) . Nic Gonzales calls the three men Salvador’s “valuable acquisitions.” Cordonero, a Nicaraguan from Miami, not only plays the drums but also traditional Latin percussion such as congas, timbales and bongos. Santiago is a Boricua – of Puerto Rican decent -who brings not only amazing talent but an unending work ethic as well. And Vilera, an established session player who’s worked with Marc Anthony, Gloria Estefan and Celia Cruz (to name a few) also brings more of the sonido Latina to the music and, ultimately, their fan base.

What is it that sets this record apart from other Christian albums and even Salvador’s previous ones? Three words: horns and percussion. According to the producers of album 'Dismiss the Mystery', there is a greater reliance on horns and percussion to take an already existing tapestry of excellent vocals, rhythm and strings, to a higher level of excellence creating nuances and gravitas that exudes a timeless capability.

Regarding the future of Salvador’s ability to keep creating in the face of growth, change and an unstable marketplace, one thing is for certain: after seven years of hard work culminating with Dismiss the Mystery, it is impossible to dismiss their undeniable musicianship, and the only mystery left at this point is what can they possibly do next to top it.

The band has released:
~Salvador (June 20, 2000)
~Into Motion (June 4, 2002)
~Con Poder (August 12, 2003)
~Worship Live (September 23, 2003)
~So Natural (November 9, 2004)
~Que Tan Lejos Esta Cielo (July 26, 2005)
~Dismiss the Mystery (August 29, 2006)
~Aware (April 29, 2008)
~How Far Is Heaven: The Best of Salvador (February 3, 2009)

Salvador was the recipient of the Dove Award for Christian Latin Album of the Year for "Con Poder" in 2004.  In 2008, on the heels of their new album release "Aware", the band along with TobyMac, Third Day,and Kelly Clarkson were been requested to perform at the Papal Youth Rally on April 19, 2008 in Yonkers, New York.

2) Salvador is a russian latino-rock band. Their music combine latino-guitar sound and such rock-music elements as bass-guitar and drums. 13 december 2006 they've released their first album Esta Revolucion Es Eterna. Band consists of: Dmitry Pereverten' (vocals, guitar), Dmitry Mitin (guitar, back vocals), Andrey Pereverten' (bass-guitar, back and scream vocals), Vitaliy Zamyatin (drums).


3)Salvador is a post-rockish instrumental band with a hard rocking twist. They're from Kortrijk, Belgium, same town as Hitch, Hawai, Galatasaray, Nomad, ... They've existed since the end of 2005.  Salvador released their first EP in November 2007. The band consists of Bert Vandekendelaere (Bass), Stijn Van Dierdonck (Guitar), Olivier Deryckere (Guitar) and Pieter Blancke (Drums). Check out their last.fm page www.last.fm/music/salvador. (don't forget the final dot!) or www.myspace.com/salvadorrebirth. 


4) Salvador is a sludge/stoner metal band from Portland, Oregon, in the United States.  The band is made up of:

KIRK EVANS | BASS/VOCALS
RYAN McPHAILL | DRUMS
AARON LUM | GUITAR
WAYNE FIDLER | GUITAR 

Salvador's music can be found here: http://www.myspace.com/salvadorpdx so let's get some support going for this band!

Myspace - http://www.myspace.com/salvadorpdx
Official site - www.salvadorrock.com

5) Salvador, also known as Sawkeepsie or Salvador Sawkeepsie is an underground experimental hip hop artist who really likes Silent Hill. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Salvador">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.