Salò were formed in Glasgow in late 2010 by Paul McArthur (guitar, vocals), Wes McCallum (bass, vocals) and Sam Massey (drums, vocals). All three had previously been in bands that had enjoyed a degree of success critically, but which had broken up in the preceding year. Salò were initially formed as a means to play both more visceral and more experimental music than any of the members’ previous bands.

Salò’s sound stems from a shared love of the discordant end of 80s and 90s post-hardcore, such as Fugazi, Shudder To Think, The Jesus Lizard and Polvo, while also bringing in a range of more leftfield influences, from Swans to Beefheart. Rather than sounding purely retrogressive, Salò use these sources of inspiration as a springboard for their ideas – keeping one foot in the past whilst retaining an exploratory edge that places the band firmly in the here and now. The band also take inspiration from their interest in cinema and literature – song lyrics and titles make subtle and not-so-subtle nods to the works of Philip K. Dick, Franz Kafka, Alfred Hitchcock and David Lynch, amongst others. A vital part of the band’s chemistry is their choice to eschew the traditional lead singer or frontman position in favour of dividing vocal duties three ways, with each member taking his turn.

Salò are quickly gaining recognition for their frenetic live shows, which see the band using improvisation, extended repetition and periods of near silence to create light and shade in between songs, which in turn are rarely played exactly the same way twice. Since their live debut at Glasgow’s Bar Bloc in June 2011, Salò have racked up shows with Dweller, DZ DEATHRAYS, United Fruit and Shellac’s European tourmates Picore, as well as a four date Scottish mini-tour with like-minded post-hardcore band Hunt/Gather.

The band’s self-titled EP was recorded, mixed and mastered in four days at Chime Studios by engineer Ross McGowan (United Fruit, Dananananaykroyd, Ex-Wives) and consists of five songs, with an extra bonus track which will be available for download by anyone that purchases a physical copy. Artwork comes courtesy of Nick Blinko, renowned modern artist and founder of the famously idiosyncratic anarcho-punk band Rudimentary Peni. The EP is being released by up-and-coming Glasgow label Overlook Records, also home to Trapped In Kansas and The Darien Venture. The official launch show will take place at Bar Bloc in Glasgow on the 7th of December 2011, when Salò will be supporting Leeds art rockers Castrovalva.

In the immediate future, Salò will be playing as many shows as possible in support of the EP, and will be releasing a limited edition 7″ with Struggletown Records before starting work on new material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sal%C3%B2">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.