Since bursting onto the scene in 2011 with the Radio 2 play-listed debut single ‘Cartwheel Queen’ Sam Gray has gone from strength to strength.

The talented singer/songwriter spent that year a special guest on the sold-out Overtones UK tour, playing at prestigious venues including the London Palladium and performing to some 40,000 people. His album Brighter Day wound its way in the Top 10 singer/songwriter albums on iTunes and his fan base continues to grow each day thanks to radio support from more than 40 stations. He was also the subject of a Channel 4 TV documentary, and topped it off with a mammoth tour of over 70 Caffe Nero outlets nationwide.

In the summer of 2012, Sam has shifted to a more soulful sound. His single, ‘This Girl’ released in August, doffed its cap to classic Motown, blue-eyed soul and general good-time intelligent pop. With over a quarter of a million YouTube views, it seems the general public is loving his slight bend in musical direction. And there’s more to come. Think Otis Redding meets the more ballad-driven strains of Elvis Costello with a dash of the Style Council and you’re getting there.

Born and raised in Hull, Sam grew up playing in bands on Humberside before slowly gravitating across the M62 to Manchester, which remains his base to this day. Whilst in Manchester he was discovered by legendary drummer Steve White (Paul Weller, The Who, Oasis) who became his manager, producer and general overseer. White, along with his team secured Sam a publishing deal with Notting Hill Music and a recording contract with the Transmission Recordings label. He also got Sam in the studio with highly sought after producer, Brendan Lynch (Weller as well as Primal Scream and Ocean Colour Scene). 

As well as performing and generally playing a star-in-waiting, Sam is also an accomplished writer having crafted tunes for The Voice and Hollyoaks star Abi Phillips. At the time of writing he is very much a songwriter in demand.

Sam is currently the special guest on Peter Andre’s ‘Up Close and Personal’ tour which began in mid-November and spans over 30 dates nationwide. It is sure to open up Sam to a new audience and cement his reputation as one of the UK’s up and coming premium live acts.

A new single will coincide with the Andre tour with a brand new album, Too Much Of A Good Thing released on 4 February 2013. Like ‘This Girl’, the album has definite echoes of Motown and soul, kicked through with modern textures and a contemporary feel. It is set to be one of the defining releases of next year’s first quarter.

For more information on Sam Gray please contact Toby Opperman at Transmission Recordings on 0207 243 2921 or toby@transmissionrecordings.com


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sam+Gray">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.