Sam James is a singer-songwriter – a singer-songwriter who is rising thru the ranks of the Alternative Pop-Rock genre with genuine force and intensity.  Currently a contestant on the hit NBC TV show, “The Voice – Season 3”, Sam has been given the opportunity to share his abundant talent with a wider audience… and people are taking notice.  His introduction to “The Voice” audience was his unique vocal delivery of John Lennon’s timeless classic “Imagine,” compelling Maroon 5 frontman Adam Levine to scoop up Sam for his team, saying “You need to be on the show – you’re that good… you have a fantastic voice and DEFINITELY deserve to be here.” The national audience took notice, too, spurring Sam’s Itunes single of “Imagine” to the #11 spot on the Itunes Rock Charts. But while Sam’s voice makes him the perfect contestant for a vocal competition, his songwriting ability underlies his true artistry.  Sam’s heartfelt lyrics and instrumental inventions find their way into all of his songs and represent a generation of songwriter well beyond his years.  

Armed with a voice that touches on all the elements of the great soul singers, modern rock and acoustic balladry, Sam possesses the unique ability to craft songs and deliver a performance that speaks to fans of all kinds of music.

Growing up in the working class town of Worcester, Massachusetts, Sam began performing at coffeehouses at the ripe old age of 15. It was here that he developed his vocal style, began learning the art of songwriting, and started honing his skills as an artist. After earning his dues on the road and gaining a sense of maturity in his music, Sam started slowly working his way into the Boston and New York music scenes. As word spread of his talent, Sam was given the opportunity to open and perform alongside such established artists as Third Eye Blind, Robert Randolph, Ingram Hill, Collective Soul, John Popper, Rusted Root, and the legendary Chuck Berry. With the experience of these gigs in his back pocket, Sam began getting calls to headline his own shows at prestigious events like ‘Rock The Gridiron’ (Super Bowl XLI, Miami, FL), the Vice-Presidential Inaugural Ball (Washington, D.C.), South by Southwest Music Festival, and a USO TOUR w/Ingram Hill (Cuba, Honduras, Curacao), and now Sam is excited to be reaching millions of new listeners, with the goal of making fans out of all of them!

Already hard at work with his band in the studio and on stage, Sam is primed to bring his music to a new fan base. Tune in to Season 3 of “The Voice” to watch Sam compete in the Battle Rounds, download his “The Voice” singles on iTunes, check the “Shows” page for upcoming performances, become a friend on Facebook and follow Sam on Twitter, and check back for updates, downloads and new music! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sam+James">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.