SAM (or "sam) is the name of several artists/groups (23 Sams listed at discogs.com).

1) Already in their early years Joe und Daniel were experimenting with different music genres and found their destination in electronic music. Soon their first output "Demo Lition" was taking the dancefloors by storm. SAM was born. Shortly after the first, self-titled debut album "Synthetic Adrenaline Music" was being released by the Pro Noize label from the Dark Dimensions family. With their clubhit "24 Stunden" SAM entered the German Alternative Charts (DAC) and several other disco- and webcharts. That was in 2006.
After a short time of absence and development SAM started working on their new release "Destruction Unit", which was released in 2008. After the pause, it seems that the music is more powerfull and agressive than ever!
The new album features 12 new brute dancefloor-tracks as well as exclusive remixes by top acts like Soman, Xotox, Reaper, C/A/T and Modulate. The perfect start for a powerfull year 2008! 

Website at: http://www.project-sam.com.

- Note from the artist: We want to clarify something about the correct spelling of our project-name and the associated Last.fm account.
The correct spelling is “SAM” without any dots. The name “S.A.M” is incorrect.
That is important, because our music is listed in various Mp3-portals like iTunes with the tag “SAM”.

2) "SAM" is the stage name of Filipino fingerstyle guitarist Sam Joel Nang.

3) Sam Intharaphithak - singer from Laos. He topped the Music Boom I-Radio Top Chart during the summer 2011 with the song "I'm Sorry".

4) Sam is Sam Billen of Kansas band The Billions, who released a debut solo album in 2004 under the name Sam.

5) Sam is a Dutch acoustic band from Tilburg consisting of three young women; Eefje (guitar), Annelie (bass) and Sophie (keyboard),  

6) S.A.M. is another name under which Samuel André Madsen releases techno & house music <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.