Multiple artists go by the name Samson.

1. Samson was a British hard rock band formed in 1977 by guitarist and vocalist Paul Samson. They are best known for their first three albums with future Iron Maiden singer Bruce Dickinson, then known as "Bruce Bruce", and drummer Thunderstick (real name Barry Graham), who wore a leather mask and performed on stage in a metal cage. Drummer Clive Burr was also member of the band, both before and after his tenure with Iron Maiden. Drummer Mel Gaynor also had a successful music career being a member of Simple Minds for over 20 years.

After the release of their debut album Survivors in 1979, they spent the rest of the year touring on support of the album. In early 1980, Samson appeared as the opening act for Robin Trower's concerts, including dates at Hammersmith Odeon. The tour finished at Newcastle City Hall, where days later the band opened for Rainbow, on their Down to Earth tour. Here, Samson started performing for bigger audiences, but after some touring differences, they were cancelled for the rest of the dates.

The band's second album, Head On, was released July 1980, and peaked at #34 in the UK charts. The supporting tour was full of controversy and legal issues, due to problems with their management. They kept writing and rehearsing for a new record. Ten songs had already been composed, by October 1980, and were ready to be recorded. At the same time, the band re-issued their debut album, Survivors, now with Dickinson handling vocal duties. The tour continued until the end of the year, when Samson entered the studio to record their third album, Shock Tactics. This was the last album Dickinson recorded with the band. Samson faced an innumerable amount of problems with their management. They were always being booked on ill-matched support tours. After leaving their management in 1981 they discovered that their record company was going bankrupt. Dickinson said they "made every mistake in the business". His last performance with Samson was at the Reading Festival in 1981. This was recorded by the BBC and released in 1990, as the live album Live at Reading 1981.

The group effectively disbanded with Paul Samson's death from cancer on August 9, 2002. Bass player Chris Aylmer later died on January 9th 2007 following a battle with throat cancer. He was reported to have been responsible for suggesting the band's name. He assumed the role of bass player previously having been the band's soundman.

The band appeared in a short-movie Biceps of Steel in 1980, directed by Julien Temple, which was intended as the B-film to a major feature produced and promoted by the record company. The film featured two music-video type sequences which form the 15 minute film. Though it has been largely forgotten, clips from it were seen in the movie The Incubus (1981). However, in 2006, Biceps of Steel re-surfaced on Bruce Dickinson's Anthology DVD, Bruce himself introducing the video.

2. Samson was one of the more obscure outfits signed to Andrew Oldham's Immediate label, considering that they got to cut an entire concept album, Are You Samson?, which was released by the label in 1969. They played the Marquee Club, and were known around London, but never caught on. Keyboard man and singer Ian Kewley later worked with Strider and Limey, before hooking up with Paul Young. Samson brought into their music a successful blend of harmonies which sound akin to the Gregorian psych-era choral vocal parts of the Pretty Things and the Zombies, a touch of Deep Purple circa Shades of Purple, and a hint of the increasingly popular concept album. For sake of classification, their blending of Kinks-ish psych-pop with more progressive elements is befitting of the title progressive pop.

3. Samson is an Indie Rock band from Shepparton, Victoria, Australia. The previous line up includes: Luke Lewis-Guitar & vocals, Ash Beks-Guitar & vocals, Jake Warner-Bass & vocals and Ben Warner-Drums. They frequent iconic Shepparton venue "The Yahoo Bar" and played at the first inaugural "3630 Festival" in Shepparton. Known for their 60s style sound and lo-fi sounds. Disbanded in 2011 with several members of the band forming the band "Onett"
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Samson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.