There are multiple artists called Sanchez:

1)  Kevin Anthony Jackson (Sanchez) is a Jamaican  reggae artist.

       Born on November 30, 1964 in Kingston, Jamaica and christened Kevin Anthony Jackson, Sanchez grew up with his Mother, Father, two brothers and two sisters, in the Stony Hill and Waterford Communities under strong Christian principles. He says, "I had to go to church every Sunday and often during the week as well. I was a member of the Rehoboth Apostolic Church junior choir and later the senior choir where I was the lead singer. I just love singing and going to church. However, when I started to attend St. Andrew Technical High School, I started hanging out with a new set of friends, things began to change and we would go to parties where sound systems like Rambo, Small Ax and Crystal would play. I really began to like the music and went through a period of conflict which later resulted in me drifting from the church."
      His first hit, the Winston Riley produced, 'Loneliness,' recorded in 1988, is still one of his biggest hits. In that same year, he was voted Singer of the Year, Best Up and Coming and Best New Artist by Rockers and Bins awards respectively. 'Loneliness' was also voted Song of the Year, and this led him to his first appearance at Reggae Sunsplash. Since Loneliness, Sanchez has scored with big hits such as, "Wild Sanchez", "Love Mi Lover Bad"(a combination with DJ Florigan), "Fall In Love," "If I Ever Fall In Love Again," "Pretty Girl," "One In A Million," "Hello," 'Amazing Grace,' and "Frenzy.” Frenzy won for Sanchez the 2002 songwriter of the year award from The Martin International Awards.


2) Sanchez are a Swedish glam rock band.


3)  Sanchez is a Swedish hip-hop/r&b DJ.


4)  Sanchez are an indie/alt-rock group from Augusta, Georgia, USA.


5)  Sanchez are a UK metal band.


6)  Sanchez is an experimental artist from Washington State, USA.


7) Sanchez, also known as Shin Jaemin (신재민) is a South Korean rapper, singer, and producer. He was also a former member of Phantom, a South Korean hip hop group formed by Brand New Music that disbanded on December 22nd of 2017 after a six year run.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sanchez">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.