Sangre Eterna is Symphonic Black Metal (2005 - 2010) / Melodic Death Metal (2010 - ) band from Novi Sad, Serbia, formed in November 2005.

Ilija Stevanovic (Keyboards) and Milos Armus (Drums) formed the band “My Darkest Dreams” and started composing and recording songs. Since they were slaves to the sympho/black metal genres, the genre of the band was the same.Ilija decided to record two demo albums. Since they started recording their first demo album,keys and drums parts were finished,they needed a guitar player and a vocalist; Strahinja Popovic and Bane Panic entered the band, Strahinja as the lead vocal and Bane as a guitar player and then guitars were recorded for the first demo . In December 2005. the band changed their name, formerly known as “My Darkest Dreams”, now “Sangre Eterna” finished their demo album entitled “My Darkest Dreams” in april 2006. and called Zoltan Kovac in band as the second guitar player.

June 2006. – Promotions,Darkest Tour pt1. and Second Demo Album

Interviews,general promotions and the first mini tour (Darkest Tour Pt.1) started in June of the same year with bands such as : Nekropolis,Demether,Tiarah,Space Eater,Demention … Meanwhile,band started recording the second demo album entitled “Saint”. In July Sangre Eterna won “Demo of the Month” contest in well-known magazine MetalHammer.

September 2006. – End of Darkest Tour Pt.1

Darkest Tour Pt.1 ended in September 2006. with the last show in Belgrade, after that, Bane,Milos,Strahinja and Zoltan left the band.

February 2007. - The End .... ?

Being alone in the band,Ilija started recording the first studio album with his very good friend Damjan Deuric as the producer. At the end of August everything was finished and done. In September 2007. Ilija mixed the album in “Vilenjak” studio in Novi Sad.Also, the band started with Darkest Tour pt.2 in September with new line-up : Bora Jovanovic (Guitars),Vladimir Bojic (Bass),Srdjan Golubica (Drums),and Strahinja and Ilija from old Line-up. In November 2007 their first album entitled “ Amor Vincit Omnia” was finished.

February 2008. - The New Beginning

Band started New Year great.Lots of gigs,photo sessions,finishing songs for second album,etc…line-up also changed;Strahinja Popovic left the band and our old member Zoltan Kovac came back.

March-April 2008. - Deal with Label,Video,etc

At the end of February band signed a deal with Greek Label "Sleaszy Rider Records",so "Amor Vincit Omnia" found home in the whole world. The band recorded their first video material for the song "Eternal Sleep" in the end of March.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sangre+Eterna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.