Sangrena was formed in Amparo-SP in August 1998 by Luciano Fedel (vocals, guitar) and Fábio Ferreira (guitar) and some months later Marcos (drums) and Adriano Chersone (bass) joined in. With these members, Sangrena recorded their first demo, named Sangrena, with four songs. That material was very important for the band as it was a period that defined the band's musical personality as well as style witch, at that time, was something between Thrash Metal and Death Metal. After a few gigs in the state of São Paulo in 2000, Marcos decides to leave Sangrena due to personal reasons, being substituted by Rafael Costa who had already been an acquaintance. Sangrena worked on new songs wich, in the Beginning of 2002 ended up begin in their second demo, named "Sanctuary of Fear" also bringing four songs. This work's repercussion was very good, generating contacts for Shows in some states of Brazil and even abroad as well as several positive reviews on specialized magazines. In the same year Adriano Chersone leaves the band and Ricieri Geremias joins in to make Sangrena even more powerful. After many gigs in Brazil, once again the drummer leaves the band.

In 2004, Rafael Costa leaves the band in order to live abroad and this time the guys in the Band have a hard time finding someone to replace him. They even found a great drummer, Diego, who lived in Jacutinga-MG, but a car made it impossible him to attend rehearsals in Amparo (although he destroyed the car, he escaped unhurt). After the tragic accident the band , looked for a drummer for two years, resuming their active in 2006, when finally they found Alan Marques, Who took even the post with had beaten with great competence.

In 2007 Sangrena went to the studio in order to record their first album, named "Blessed Black Spirit" containing eleven heavy and fast songs. Sangrena became more mature and Gained valuable experience throughout of those almost tem years on the road. Playing an Old-School Death Metal and, influenced by Morbid Angel, Slayer, Hate Eternal, Vital Remains, among others, their tried to show all their hatred in the songs in the debut CD.The album "Blessed Black Spirit" has already finished and was released in 2009 by Darzamadicus Records (Europe) and Sevared Records (USA).  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sangrena">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.