1) girl band:
Sansara comprising of three extremely talented girls, Sophie Chaudhary, Shinata Patel and Monica Nath are `desi' all-girl band, all the way from London. Sansara (Band) (Sophie Chaudhary, Shinata Patel and Monica Nath) were British Asian, They thought that there are so many solo artists, but few girl groups in India, it would be nice to have a blend of East and West.

Sansara came out because of Sophie's long standing friendship with music director Biddu who worked on films such as Disco Deewane & Made in India. Evetually Sophie done backing on a lot of Indipop albums such as Made In India (Alisha) and Johnny Joker (Shweta Shetty) As soon as she finished university she decided to form a three girl band.

Sophie had met Shinata, one of the girls through family friends and met Monica about six months later at a singing contest. The decision to have three girls in the band was because all three of them bought an important element to the band.

They were all together early '99. In April they did some demo's and by May they had a contract with Universal Music India, by June they started to record the album. Biddu did all the music, since the other girls didn't speak Hindi, Sophie wrote all the lyrics, in October all-girl band went to India to shoot the video and in December, the album was released; Yeh Dil Sun Raha Hai.

The music for their 1 st album ‘Yeh Dil Sun Raha Hai' has been released in December 1999 is burning up the charts. The title video is here, there and everywhere. Played over and over again, channel after channel everyday. At the time the excitement was immense, however they missed out all the feedback since they were in the UK, whereas the album was released in India.

At Gatsby 2000, the band captivated the audience with another remix of `Disco Deewane', other remixes of popular Egyptian peppered `Habibi' and the Spanish-Arabic flavoured `Alabina'. Of course, they also `sang' the title track, `Yeh Dil Sun Raha Hai'. Given the standards of live Indi-pop performances, that has more of lip-sync, the obvious question the media posed to the girls was: ``Are you going to sing or `lip-sync'?''. ``Well, a little bit of both,'' the girls retorted with smiles. ``We would love to sing but for the tough routines. But then, we'll sing for you. And we won't take more than a minute,'' they said. `Habibi', they crooned.
They meant to shoot a second video in February, however with Shinata and Monica still studying, things had become increasingly difficult, rehearsals were constantly cancelled, They were offered many shows, but they couldn't take them on because of the lack of availability. Once the delays started in regards to the video, it became disheartening for the record company, for Biddu and for Sophie as well.  Sophie Says : "You only become a success in Pop if you do live shows and promotions, and we weren't doing any, that is also the only way to make money, and thus we weren't making any". And in May earlier , Shinata's parents decided she would only be available during college holidays, that was the decisive factor and made things extremely difficult. Considering Sansara was always three, never two the band just could not continue anymore. It was simple, the commitment just wasn't there from the rest of the girls.

When They got together they had so many aspirations, they really wanted to make a difference to the pop scene, maybe even cross over into mainstream. The secret is focus on commitment, both of which were unfortunately lacking from certain members of the group. Sophie says :" I am not annoyed, I am more upset, for over a year we were really close, we danced, sang, fought, laughed and even cried together, it's a shame, but one has to go on. I've been doing a lot of shows all over the UK, and in Los Angeles. I have also been concentrating on my Zee TV shows, and now I'm working on my solo material with Biddu. My future plans are to have no plans, I just have my own personal ambitions which I hope to achieve in the world of singing primarily, in showbiz, opportunities crop up all the time, so you need to be open minded, who knows what my destiny has in store for me. All I can do is work sincerely, with humility. I leave the rest up to the Big Boss!".

Sansara came about because of Sophie's long standing friendship with music director Biddu. All of which makes Sansara and their debut album "Yeh Dil Sun Raha Hai" a delight for the visual and audio senses. One hopes this all girl band stays on unlike Models which disintegrated after a couple of hits.

"Our group came under pressure because Sophia did not want to be a team member! She didn’t achieve so much as a solo artist unfortunately. As a group we worked a lot better together, with myself reminding everyone about the importance of vocal training and getting the vibe right." - Monica.

2) boy band: 
Hailing from the buzzing rock scene in Bournemouth, Sansara have made a remarkable stamp in the memories of fans across the UK over the last year. This four piece alternative rock band, mostly in their early twenties, have risen to their highly deserved acclaim through relentless gigging and countless late night sessions in the studio, accompanied by well received national performances, from London to Glasgow and almost everywhere in between.

Band Members:
Tom Sawyer - Lead Vocals, 
Sam Hughes - Lead Guitar,
Dee Aldwell - Bass Guitar, 
Mike Rigler - Drums, Backing Vocals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sansara">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.