Straight out of Rio de Janeiro - Brazil, the land of creative music and beautiful women, comes Santuarium, a 7-piece symphonic metal band that brings creative music to the stage by combining heavy metal with elements of classical music. Not forgetting the beautiful women, they count with Marina Andrade, who is  responsible not only for bringing the band's “pretty” factor considerably up but also for  introducing violin arrangements that cohere with the heavy music.  

After about two years of perfecting their sound, Santuarium's first studio album is finally complete. Combining interesting instrumentation, that includes the violin, the piano, the flute and the viola on top of the traditional metal sound, the music is also accompanied by intelligent and socially critical lyrics. The two sets of siblings Marina and Hugo Andrade (violin and piano) and Rafael Mineiro (drums) and Rick Mier (bass) enable Santuarium’s music to flow with ease and creates a strong bond for the composition of their innovative form of metal. 

The release of their album will be accompanied by the release of their latest video, shot in partnership with Zombie walk. The band invited their fans to participate as zombies together with zombie walk veterans. The two best zombie makeup, chosen via internet voting, get a tattoo. Their previous videoclip has been broadcast in brazilian television for the past weeks and has had over half a million views on youtube.

Before their current formation they were actually known as the best Metallica cover in the Rio – Sao Paulo – Minas circuit, attracting huge crowds anywhere they played. But, unless you're actually Metallica,  playing Metallica, and Metallica only, can get unfulfilling.  They eventually started looking for their own sound, after they found their current vocalist, Alex Proença. They had to travel 500 km to find Alex, who moved to Rio to join the band and inspired them to create their own music with his original lyrics. 

Of course it didn't just appear from day to night. They went through a lot of good and bad music until they met Marina and Hugo. A partnership with the two became an invitation for the classical music siblings to join the group. Finally, together, they created the band are Fred Calmon and Gusttavo Boquimpani, the two guitar players.

The band rapidly grew in the Rio scenario performing regularly for over 2000 people and winning independent band's contests. They've released their “Empyrean hill” single and subsequently the video. Afterwards, they released their EP “Santuarium” and now they are ready to reach out to the world by introducing their first album “Inception”.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Santuarium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.