SAQAR has been an idea in the shadow for a very long time. The first idea about the band was created by Khaled El-Sisi (lead guitar) & Bloodreaver (vocals) starting as amateur musicians in 2009. The band’s style was more about melodic death metal at that time. They jammed on Arch Enemy and Hypocrisy, along with some simple originals. They would jam alone in Khaled El-Sisi’s place with only a drum track playing back in the background.
After a little while, the band started to get into more technical stuff and started covering Necrophagist, and thus their originals started to go in that direction. The band wanted to add in a classical mood as well as a theatrical one. Thus, the originals would be relatively long and progressive, as well as adopting classical techniques and scales to fulfill this purpose. The first original made in that direction was “Deed Of The Serpent”.
Several years went by without real progress as they couldn't find proper musicians to play their style. It wasn’t until 2012 when Max (bass guitar) and Omar El-Gharib (Lead Guitar) joined the band, and they jammed for a while. Then Khaled El-Sisi had to do his military service in 2013, and this caused instability in the band; thus, Max and Omar eventually had to leave the band to join other projects.
After Khaled El-Sisi finished his service in 2014, the band started to gather up again, but this time with Abdel-Rahman Amrawy (guitar), Gasser (bass), and Mahmoud Aly (Drums). Together they recorded the final version of (Deed Of The Serpent) and their second original (Fear No evil). Later on, Abdel-Rahman Amrawy left the band as he wanted to do his own musical project.
The band couldn’t find someone to fill in Amrawy’s place. So, they decided that they would make their composition suitable to be played with one guitarist. Khaled El-Sisi thought it would be best to use a 7 string guitar which would allow him to play the same techniques on lower notes; and thus, there wouldn’t be a gap in the composition. Using this strategy, the band composed 3 more tracks “Babel”, “Oblivion”, and “Abyss”.
By the end of 2016, in the midst of SAQAR recording their EP “The Reckoning”, drummer “Mahmoud Aly” parted ways with SAQAR for personal issues. Later on, bassist “Gasser” decided to leave the band to proceed with another project. That left the band with only “Khaled El-Sisi” and “Bloodreaver”. However, this did not halt them. “Khaled” took upon himself to write and record all the lines, while “Bloodreaver” wrote the lyrics and recorded the vocals. “Khaled” bought new recording equipment to open a small business of a home studio and to be able to record SAQAR’s EP. So, the whole production took place in Khaled’s own home studio.
After 3 long months of continuous effort in recording, mixing and mastering, in March 17, 2017, SAQAR release their first EP “The Reckoning” with 5 tracks: (“Deed of the serpent”, “Fear No Evil”, “Babel”, “Oblivion”, “Abyss”) respectively. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saqar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.