Sarcomman was formed at the beginning of the year 2004. in Novi Sad. The promoters of this band were: Morbid - guitars , Stojan - drums and Blaza - vocals. In need to express the inspirations and to change and complete, as much as they can, the underground scene in Serbia, the band has started playing old - school death metal and for a short time they did surprisingly lot of material from which their very first songs evolved. For some time there were only tree of them and it was very hard to find a bass player. The band always had a problem finding fast bass guitar player and it had reflection on things which are very important for one band like concerts,doing a recording. But more hard and complex the band is, the more it’s hard to complete it and express it. There were few men who played bass guitar and tried to help Sarcomman live.Those, to whom band would like to thank, are: Ivan Francuski (Defilement), Nemanja Spasojevic (Ground Zero) and Zarko Markovic (Concrete Sun). At the beginning of the year 2006. Sarcomman entered the studio to record their first lp. This material consists of 8 songs of which 3 songs were selected and released as a single cd. The line up at that recording session consisted of four men: Dragan Logarusic (Morbid) - guitars, bass, back vocals, Stojan Kostic - drums, Branislav Belosevic (Bebac) - vocals and Blaza Vasilic - vocals. In December of 2006. Sinisa Bujandric (Mingot) joined the band as a bass player. In that line up Sarcomman recorded their second single "Disobedience". Recording of this material started at the beginning of 2008. (January the 3rd). After the single was recorded Branislav and Sinisa left the band (March 2008.). Soon after that Branislav Avramovic (ex Masque of betrayal) replaced Branislav Belosevic. The current line up: Dragan Logarusic Morbid- guitar, back vocals, Stojan Kostic - drums, Branislav Avramovic - vocals and Danilo Radojcin - bass. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sarcomman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.