There are 3 bands with this name:

1) Colombia
Death Metal band from Bogotá, formed in 1995. They recorded a demo called "Subreality" in 1998.

2) Mexico

SARCOMA formed in August 2001 with the intention of making brutal metal tinged taking as influences bands like Morbid Angel, Cannibal Corpse, Terrorizer, Suffocation, Benediction, Napalm Death, Obituary, Carcass, Black Sabbath.

The group's name is taken from the disease known as Kaposi sarcoma (something more than black marks on the skin) and the band's lyrics do not speak of physical illness or used medical terms, but rather refer to such situations social, human deviations, altered states of consciousness, releasing repressed desires insane carried to extremes, all based on real events.

Since its formation has been constant activity sarcoma, performing alongside bands like: Hirax (USA), Anton, artware, Hecatomb, Empires Darkness, Attitude, Roots Of Rot, Black Abomination, Penumbra, The Contra, Rabia, Fucking Down Again, Aireard, Acid, Conviction, Aphses, Psicofonia, Solitude (Ciudad Victoria) Sbitch addition, Pantheon (Usa) Mantra (Costa Rica), Transmetal, Putrid scum, Meat, cacophony, Dea (Df) A Perpetual Dying Mirror, Dark Gift (Irapuato), Legions Of Thelema (Slp), Devius Disharmony (Veracruz), Awaking The Gods, Belzabet (Mty), Marduk (Sweden), to name a few.

The band has a demo CD entitled "Into The Grotesque" which has been distributed to various zines with good reviews, features 5 tracks like: Silver Mask Legen (inst) Licked By The Gods, Eatin The Trachea, Bitter Conquest, and Copulation Grotesque.

Currently the band is in full promotion of his debut album that is called "Visceral".

Contact: sarcomaonline@hotmail.com (msn) and sarcomaonline@gmail.com

3) Sarcoma
Quito / Ecuador

SARCOMA born in 2003 with Juan Pablo Flores (guitar / vocals), Andres Espinosa (guitar / vocals), Guillermo Bolaños (current bassist of "Choking") and Juan Cevallos (drums). After three years playing together, the band alignment changes; Mauricio Vega (former bassist of "Choking" and "Collapse") and Paul Coloma (vocals) are integrated SARCOMA. Finally Santiago Romero (vocals) consolidates SARCOMA final alignment.

SARCOMA has had presentations in Ecuador with internationally recognized bands such as The Black Dahlia Murder (USA) Paura (Brazil), Darkest Hour (USA), Souledge (Colombia), The Orange Man Theory (Italy), Anton (Mexico), Torture Squad (Brazil), Koyi k Utho (Colombia), Mindly Rotten (Colombia), Mental Apraxia (Colombia) and Perpetual (Colombia), also have concerts in Colombia (Neiva and Medellin) with bands the likes of Goretrade, Twilight Glimmer, Wormeaten, Corpse Decay, Ancient Necropsy, Cardiac Explotion, Inbreeding Sick, saprophytic, Sourpuz, Insane Butchery Desease, Mindly Rotten, Conflict, Infested Murder, Detriktuss, Overthrowing, HatexHate, Between the Karma and Dharma Firewings, etc.

SARCOMA also has performed with bands as Basca, Total Death, Ente, Coffee Sub, Enormous, Siq, Curare, Likaon, Selva, Epidemic, Collapse, Murder, Kanhiwara, pulse Thanatos, Suffocation, Gorephagia, Desquizofrenia, PDE, Escape from the slaughterhouse, among ashes, Mandala and others.

SARCOMA During his career he participated in festivals such as the QUITOFEST 2007 Sevici FEST (Neiva, Colombia), NO BARRIERS FESTIVAL (Medellin, Colombia), ROCK & HIP HOP FESTIVAL (Ambato, Ecuador), IV FESTIVAL OF DIVERSITY TOLERANCE AND SELF-ESTEEM (Tribune South, Quito, Ecuador), and the hardcore scene (Quito, Ecuador) among others.


NEW ALBUM:
Currently the band is promoting their new album and is named "SARCOMA" (2008-2009), which follows the EP 'TORTURE SILENT (2007), the same addresses both personal and social topics approached from a critical perspective to issues such as war, child abuse, abuse of authority, and the reality and the environment that surround the four band members.

CONTACTS:
sarcomaec@hotmail.com
santiagor_84@hotmail.com
negrodace@hotmail.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sarcoma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.