Swedish Black Metal Band. Sargoth was formed in January 1994 by the guitarist Patrik Johansson and the vocalist Fredrik Sundin. A few songs where written within the first two week period. Sargoth started to recruit members which turned out to be quite easy and Sargoth had their first full line-up within a couple of weeks. The drummer Michael Nyström (from the band Crebain) entered Sargoth and shortly after Johan Kempe on bass and Roger Lagerlund (both also members of Impious) on rhythm guitar did enter the band. A few songs where written and after a few months Lagerlund and Kempe left the band due to lack of time and interest at the time. 

The band tried to keep up the producing events and go on as a three-piece band. After approximately one year, in the winter of 1994-1995 the almost slumbering band (due to military service etc) did recruit the guitarist Rehn (also member of Abyssos) who gave the musical producing process the new fuel injection it needed and the same spring the band entered the local studio Mysak to record their first six track demo "Mörkrets Anlete" produced by Leif Persson. The demo can best be described as fast and melodic. The demo got great reviews in the black metal underground press. The immediate time after the demo release gave birth to four new songs, that newer have been released or recorded. 

The drummer Nyström got kicked out from the band in the summer of 1996 due to personal reasons and the former Sargoth guitarist Roger Lagerlund re-entered the band on drums. The music started to accelerate forward in a more vicious and satanic direction which have been Sargoth and its members intentions since the very beginning. 

In the winter 1996-1997 Sargoth re-entered studio Mysak to record a four-track promotion tape. These four songs are all featured on the first album. Anyway, since the drums and the guitars was recorded the band sent the unfinished material to the new started Swedish black metal label Black Diamond Productions who decided to offer Sargoth a contract immediately, considering the fact that the new started label had some co-operation with the German label Invasion Records, a huge portion of dedication to black metal and good promotion made the decision easy. Sargoth agreed Black Diamond´s offer and signed for two albums. 

Sargoth made four new songs which where featured on the album "Lay Eden in Ashes". The band rehearsed a lot during the spring of 1997 and prepared to enter Mysak studio with Leif Persson once again. In the end of that summer "Lay Eden in Ashes" was recorded and mixed the following autumn in the Uppsala based studio Dug Out (Meshuggah etc) by Daniel Bergstrand to sharpen the Sargothian blade. The album got great response both in Sweden and elsewhere. 

A few weeks after the album release, Rehn left the band to focus on his other band Abyssos, which was great because his musical taste differed a lot from the other band members. The other members wanted Sargoth to get even more aggressive and fast. In that very moment Sargoths new songs turned into more extreme domains and the band's next coming album "Under Lucifers Banner" will truly become the most violate and dark album in the genre! Sargoth intend to record this album in summer 1999 and hopefully release it shortly after. 

Since the spring 1998 session bassist Kent Hofling entered the band as a full member in the beginning of 1999. Short after the guitarist Olle Jansson entered the band to close the Sargothian circle! Sargoth, the academic devil worshippers that dwell in the city Sundsvall in the northern part of Sweden use the music to express blasphemy of all holy value and moral. The title "Lay Eden in Ashes" itself symbolise the dystopia the burning garden bring to the all to often decadent humanity. Sargoth despise religions like Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism etc. that bestow greatness upon the weak and ignorant masses.


Last known line-up :

Fredrik Sundin - Vocals 
Patrik Johansson - Guitar 
Kent Hofling - Bass 
Olle Jansson - Guitar (Chaosdaemon)
Roger Lagerlund - Drums (played guitar for the band in the early stages but left and returned to the drums some time later) (Chaosdaemon, Impious)

Former/past member(s) :

Michael Nyström - Drums (Crebain (Swe))
Christian Rehn - Guitar (Angtoria, Evergrey, Insalubrious, Abyssos)
Johan Kempe - Bass (Impious)
Fredrik Högberg - Bass (Anubis (Swe)) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sargoth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.