There are three bands called Sargon.

SARGON - USA, Arizona:

SARGON Sargon, the vision and brainchild of Frank (Guitar and Vocals) came to life in late 2008 with Edgar on the Bass and Alex on Drums (Ex Malevolent Creation , Solstice). Sargon recorded and independently released a demo of songs that Frank had previously written entitled "The Vehemence EP". It was recorded by the mentioned lineup in February 2009. After a few live shows, Sargon had the opportunity to share the stage with Malevolent Creation on October 2009. Sargon has been hard at work on their first full length album entitled "In Contempt" which is now officially 100% recorded, mixed, and mastered as of January 6, 2011. You can download a promo version of the record directly from our blog. At the time being Sargon is getting ready to release the record physically. Also, due to relocation issues Frank is looking for a lineup on the Phoenix area to release, promote, and tour for this record. More info soon... Hailz!

SARGON is:

    * Frank Van Kwartel: Lead/Rhythm Guitars and Vocals
    * Alex Marquez: Drums
    * Edgar Candanedo: Bass


Contact: mazeofdeath@hotmail.com  

SARGON - Spain:

Sargon is a metal band with arab music parts, formed in December 1999 at Santa Eulàlia de Ronçana, Barcelona (Spain). They released two demo CD's (The Oath Of Akkad - 2001, Mirage - 2002). On 2005 they recorded their first album called Transcriptions all over Spain, with the spanish record label Big Bang Music.

After touring around lots of places in Catalonia, presenting their debut album, Sargon went a little tour to Germany in May 2006. This opened doors in the international scene even more.

Nowadays the band is recording the new songs for the new CD called VIDA, which hopefully, will be released next year. 

SARGON - Italy:

Black metal project formed in 2000 in Milano (Italy). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sargon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.