Sariola was a Extreme Dark Metal Band from Germany consisting of an international line-up featuring members from Germany, Ukraine and Belarus. 

The Band was founded by E.Konny and Anagnorisis in the year 2005. E.Konny already played black metal-based music with clear, operatic vocals in his former bands Divina Nocturna / Spectra Selene (1997–2004). After a short time, Silenia Tyrvenis, singer of E.Konny's former project, joined Sariola. The Band started immediately the recording of their first album, entitled "Sphere of Thousand Sunsets"

Due to personal reasons Silenia Tyrvenis left the band. After several line up changes, a new line up crystallized: Loreley Von Rhein - vocals, Leandra Ophelia Dax - keyboards, Anagnorisis - lead guitars, Morbid - drums.

Following by live concerts and open air festivals with bands like Ensiferum, Psyche, Pro-Pain, Imperia, Hail of Bullets, Sariola offered live performance on the stages of Europe.

In May 2009 SARIOLA released an EP entitled "Deathfrozen Silence" containing an early version of four songs from the upcoming album "From The Dismal Sariola". The musical mixture of the EP improves the typical elements of SARIOLA and gained positive reviews by international press.

As result of a demand, Sariola completely re-recorded their first album "Sphere Of Thousand Sunsets" with the new line-up without using any original tracks. The worldwide internet release was in May 2012. The next album of Sariola was scheduled according to the interview for Swedish "Battle Helm"-Zine for winter 2012/2013

After major line up changes Sariola produced their very first music video to the song "From the dismal Sariola". The song itself was recorded in multiple studios. Anagnorisis went to the parlour studios (where bands like Napalm Death and the Exploited produced their work) in Kettering, UK to record guitars. The track was mastered by Russ Russell. 2 further tracks where recorded in Lübeck, Germany at Lasse Lammert's LSD studio. The EP "From the dismal Sariola" released in September 2014 by the German label 7HARD received good critics and the band perform their first European tour supporting the NWOBHM pioneers Blitzkrieg and performed several headliner shows. 

In 2020 the Band split up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SARIOLA">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.