Sarkasm, founded in July of 1990 in Granby, Quebec, Canada as Traumatism, featured frontman Bruno Bernier, who would later go on to Obliveon. The band released two demos, the six song "Incubated Mind" in 1991 and "Inner Flame" the following year. The founding Traumatism line up comprised Bernier on lead vocals, guitarists François Dubuc and Yves Parent, bass player Daniel Desroches with Simon Thibodeau on the drums. After just one gig the band took on the revised title of Sarcasm, subsequently switching to the more identifiable Sarkasm.

The "Incubated Mind" sessions were conducted at the band's rehearsal place with mixing taking place at Montreal's Peter Pan Studios under the watchful eye of Obliveon guitarist Pierre Rémillard. The tape established the group as a viable contendor and a succession of gigs sharing stages with artists such as Gorguts, Midevil, Psychicthrob, Noslom, Cadavrosity and Purulence then followed. However, Desroches decamped, being replaced by David Bouchard in May of 1992 for recording of the band's second demo, the four songs "Inner Flame", recorded at Peter Pan Studios by Pierre Rémillard and mixed at Le Studio Hatley by René Roberge.

In July of that year Parent left the ranks, going on to Flood, June, Rat Salad, Tereza and Pipewrench, being superseded by Thierry Hivon. Further line up tribulation hit the band in December as both Bouchard and Thibodeau exited. Sarkasm regrouped, pulling in drummer Jacques Bélanger and bass player Bruno Côté before the group splintered.

Bernier enrolled himself into Obliveon during 1994. Jacques Bélanger and Bruno Côté would form up the rhythm section for Days Of Yore and Deimos (Can), issuing the 1994 demo "The Fall Of Aristoï". Thierry Hivon joined punk rockers Sexhead whilst David Bouchard, alongside Côté, played with Winds Of War. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sarkasm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.