There are two bands called Saros. A metal band from San Francisco, and an ambinet project probably originally from Germany.

1. Formed in the Winter of 2004, Saros is a strong force within the Bay Area Metal scene having gained notoriety for their distinct sound and live delivery. Forging together elements of death, thrash, doom and black metal with a strong melodic sensibility rooted in metal classics such as Sabbath or Maiden, the Saros sound reflects the diversity of the band itself and the different voices that shape it.

Saros weaves together real life experience with its reflection in the world of dreams to conjure a powerful yet bleak and tragic soundscape of isolation, madness, power and corruption. The band is also driven by a creative tension that finds its clearest expression in the dueling lead-work of Ben Aguilar and Leila Abdul-Rauf. Maintaining a balance between force and grace, the solos are often as much a narrative as the lyrical content. This juxtaposition of force and form is audible on every track of Five Pointed Tongue, the band’s first full length released on Hungry Eye records in 2006. Beneath it all, the thunderous rhythm section of Tim Scammell on bass and drummer Blood Eagle maintain the heart and pulse of the Saros sound.

Affiliations, side projects: Currently Leila Abdul-Rauf is a full time member of Amber Asylum, Bastard Noise and Ion Channel. Blood Eagle is also in the Bay Area power-metal band Embers of Euphoria and can be heard on the album “Dead as Dreams” by US Black Metal-ers Weakling.

2. Joerg Huettner founded "Saros" back in 1998 together with DJ Jan Osh as a Goa/Ambient project.

After 8 months of work they already had their first live gig in front of an enthusiastic crowd in December of the same year.

In 1999 first CD compilation releases followed on the German based label "Zoomia".

After Joerg relocated in 1999 he went on solo with "Saros", focusing more and more on ambient and downbeat tracks.

During this time the first album "reaching out to the other world" was released solely on MP3 websites - including MP3.com and peoplesound.com - garnering many of rave reviews.

In 2001 and 2002 further CD compilation releases followed on "Waldorf Records", the label of the world famous Germany synth company Waldorf, as well as on Ceiba Records, USA, in 2003.

The "Soundscapes" album was produced in 2002 and 2003 and Joerg already is working on new tunes to be released in the future.

His latest works even brought him in touch with LA based Hollywood composer Klaus Badelt (e.g. "k-19", "time machine", "pirates of the caribean") and they are planning future collaborations. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saros">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.