Sarpanitum are a death metal band from Birmingham, UK. They formed in 2003 with their music and lyrics, on the first album "Despoilment of Origin"  based on Babolyanian Mythology where as the latest E.P "Fidelium" is influenced by events surrounding the first crusade.

Current Members
Tom Hyde - Lead Guitars  (live Mithras, exTenebrous Aeon)
Tom Innocenti - Vocals (Infant Bile, exTenebrous Aeon, Balor, Onryō, Ex Lantlôs)
Leon Macey - Studio Drums Mithras
Vic Lochab - Bass

Former Members
Luke Archer - Rhythm Guitars (ex Visions Through Hate)
Steve Powell - Drums (Anaal Nathrakh, Fukpig, Detrimentum, Theoktony
Sean Broster - Drums (Mithras (live))
Mark Broster- Vocals/Guitars
Barry French - Drums (Tenebrous Aeon)
Jack Galbraith - Guitar/Vocals (Dark Earth(UK))
Phil Mosley - Drums (Screamin' Daemon)
Dan Lowndes -Vocals (Infant Bile, Imindain, Disembowelled, Crepitation, Invocate, Maniakal Torment, and Cruciamentum)
Andy Techakosit - Vocals/Bass (Trephined, Dark Earth (UK))


Official Summary
Sarpanitum are a atmospheric brutal-blackened death-metal band who formed in 2003 and first debut album was "Despoilment of Origin" on Galactic Records (2007). There début, "Despoilment Of Origin" is a eloquently guttural performance of mythological blackened death metal that leaves only ashes in its wake rooted in self-acquired lore of Ancient Babylonia, Sumeria and Akkadia and the mythology around the time.

Around and up to the launch of the album, Sarpanitum graced the stage alongside INSISION, VISCERAL BLEEDING, THE MONOLITH DEATH CULT and MACABRE, they earned a slot at the annual NEUROTIC RECORDS DEATHFEST in 2006 in Eindhoven, Holland, a high-profile event for the world’s most prestigious death-metal warlords. Side-by-side with the likes of PSYCROPTIC, INSIDIOUS DECREPANCY, GOREROTTED, AVULSED and PROSTITUTE DISFIGUREMENT.

Four years on after being plagued by terrible omens and numerous lineup changes Sarpanitum have returned with a new self-released E.P "Fidelium"which has been recorded, mixed and mastered by Leon Macey (MITHRAS). "Fidelium" continues the unstoppable siege of blackened death forged from lyrical themes dealing with the dangers of religious fanaticism using first person perspectives from genuine participants of the First Crusade.

Currently, whilst returning to the live arena in the UK with new material Sarpanitum are writing a second album with our full line up including Leon Macey (MITHRAS).


Reviews
"… Having spent the last couple of years gaining a reputation as one of the UK's finest death metal outfits thanks to their bulldozering live power, it's hardly surprising that Sarpanitum's debut slays with such ferocity you are left worrying that the sheer intensity will tear your speakers to shreds…“
- KERRANG!

"All hail the new kings of the British Metal Underground!" - KERRANG!

"Sarpanitum aren't standing in anyone's shadow when it comes to the music. Capturing the heaviness of the likes of Immolation and melding it with the catchy ferocity of Melechesh, Sarpanitum have gone a long way to forging their own sound. As debut's go, that's pretty damn impressive.“
- Zero Tolerance

"Arguably the best death metal debut to come out of England in some years... a highly impressive slab of brutal yet intelligent death metal that warrants your attention right now.“
- Digital Metal

Line-up changes
The then two piece band recorded a two song demo in 2003 called "The Agushaya Hymn" which was met with a drum machine doing blasts and technical fast fills with the companying slaughter of the thrashing guitars and growled Suffocation-type vocals. The band then merged with local Birmingham band Tenebrous Aeon and gained drummer Barry French (Drums, Ex Tenebrous Aeon) and Thomas Hyde (Infant Bile, Ex Tenebrous Aeon) and Tom Innocenti (Infant Bile, Ex Tenebrous Aeon,  Balor, Onryō, Ex Lantlôs) joined on guitars.

However, this did not last long and Barry French was replaced with Phil Mosley (Drums, Ex Screamin' Daemon) and Dan Lowndes (Vocals, also in ExInfant Bile, ExImindain, ExDisembowelled, ExCrepitation, ExInvocate, ExManiakal Torment and Cruciamentum)
) joined on vocals to record their 2004 demo. Yet, the band yet again went into line up changes   Dan Lowndes left then Mosley left the drums for Sean Broster (Live memberMithras).

This line up would go onto record their long awaited debut album "Despoilment of Origin" in 2007, once they sign to  Galactic Records for its release. Then Andy left yet again to pursue other intrests and Tom Innocenti leaving for Mark Broster (Vocals/Guitars) and Vic Lochab (Bass).

The band has toured with the likes of Psycroptic, Insidious Decrepancy, Gorerotted, Avulsed and Prostitute Disfigurement.

Since December 2008 the band went on hiatus to pursue career development however has now started writting again with the return of Tom Innocenti (Infant Bile, Ex Tenebrous Aeon,  Balor, Onryō, Ex Lantlôs) and departusre of Mark Broster and Sean Broster. From here Tom Innocenti and Tom Hyde released there latest E.P "Fidelium" independently whilst acquiring experienced sticks-man Steve Powell (ANAAL NATHRAKH) and guitarist Luke Archer (ex Visions Through Hate) to the ranks. At present Sarpanitum have two local shows in Birmingham at the Asylum 2 on the 19th November and on January 21st 2012and are currently looking for more UK Shows whilst writing there second full-length.

www.sarpanitum.co.uk
www.myspace.com/sarpanitum <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sarpanitum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.