There are currently several artists using the name Sasha:

1) Sasha, born Alexander Coe (born September 4, 1969), is a Welsh DJ and record producer. Late Night Tales Presents Sasha: Scene Delete was released in April 2016. He is also known for partnering with English DJ, John Digweed, as Sasha + Digweed. The pair released several mix albums together, including the Northern Exposure series (released between 1996 and 2001). They also released one of the all time best selling mix albums, The Renaissance Mix Collection part 1, in 1994. Sasha also released two Global Underground solo mix CDs, San Francisco (GU009) and Ibiza (GU013), which are considered classics of the progressive house genre.

In 2002 he released his first solo LP, Airdrawndagger, a result of collaboration with Charlie May and Junkie XL, the album also featured a guest appearance from James Holden. The album enjoyed excellent reviews upon its release, and recently a wave of quality remixes by various producers has re-kindled interest in Sasha's production work. 2004 saw the release of Involver, his third in the Global Underground series. This mix album differed from previous albums in that each track was completely reproduced in the studio, as opposed to simply being blended together.

More recently, in 2005, Sasha began moving away from mixing with records and CDs in favor of a new approach with computer software and a dedicated controller for his live sets. With the sequencing/mixing software Ableton Live and a custom controller that Sasha helped to design, he is able to use mixing techniques that are difficult or impossible with conventional methods, including mixing together many sources at once, adjusting pitch and tempo of sources independently, and cutting up and rearranging songs. His most recent mixed CD, Fundacion, was recorded using the Ableton Live software and the album bears the name of his monthly residency nights in both New York and Los Angeles.

http://www.djsasha.com

2) a hardcore/screamo band from San Diego, CA, active in the early 2000's. They released a CDr in 2002.

3) a reggae/dancehall singer. She had a Major Hit with "I'm Still In Love" featuring Sean Paul. 

4) Sascha Schmitz, better known as his stage name Sasha, is a German singer-songwriter, musician and occasional actor. "If You Believe" is his highest-charting single.

5) SASHA, an alternative band from Adelaide, Australia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sasha">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.