Saso are Jim Lawler and Ben Rawlins who share a unique artistic relationship as a writer / producer partnership and construct the music in their studio in Dublin, developing the songs organically from inception to completion.

Following a five year gap since their last release, Saso return with a new album, titled 'Exitudes', which will be released in November 2011 on the Melted Snow label. The album marks a new chapter for the Dublin-based band, its distinctive atmosphere and textures reflecting the creative uncertainty that preceded the disc’s recording, not to mention the wider drama unfolding around them in Ireland.

Although relatively unknown in their home country, Saso are one of the most critically acclaimed bands to come out of Ireland in recent years, establishing a dedicated fanbase in the UK, Europe and the USA. Their debut album ‘Big Group Hug’ was named Album of the Week in The Sunday Times, and received 4 out of 5 star reviews in Q Magazine, Muzik, Rock Sound, The Irish Times, The Irish Independent, Hot Press, The Event Guide and many others. Their new album ‘Exitudes’ aims to build on this critical reputation, while expanding the band’s sound and audience.

In 2007, Saso' experienced commercial breakthrough when their song 'Type-A Jitters' was used as the music for a Coors Light TV commercial broadcast in Ireland. Since the campaign started, the song and associated album (I Can Do Nice) consistently charted in the top 10 downloads on iTunes resulting in unprecedented record sales for the band. For such a high profile ad, many people were unaware that the music was from an Irish band.

Saso occasionally play live and performed a few one off shows in Dublin, Cork, Waterford and Sligo. They were the opening band on Other Voices TV show on RTE 2 in 2005 and featured in a 2FM session in 2008.

Saso has a wealth of previously released material including three albums Big Group Hug 2002, I Can Do Nice 2004 and The Middle Ages 2006.




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saso">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.