Sasquatch is a stoner rock band from Los Angeles, California. 

Wreaking havoc with their fourth Small Stone release, Sasquatch lead the way with their fiery brand of rock n' roll. You'll hear 70's hard rock mixed with a dash of metal carried by an unmistakable undercurrent of psychedelic sounds which permeate their songs. The band was formed in Los Angeles in 2001 by Philadelphia transplant Keith Gibbs (guitar, vox) and Detroit natives Rick Ferrante (drums) and Clayton Charles (bass). Upon Clayton’s departure in 2007, the guys recruited Chicagoan Jason Casanova (ex-Tummler, Volume) to join the fold. Drawing on influences from 70's metal, rock, and psychedelia, the band falls somewhere between an amalgamation of Black Sabbath, old Soundgarden, Deliverance-era Corrosion of Conformity, Mountain, and a bastardized version of Grand Funk Railroad. Their songwriting approach is clear; keep the focus on the hook.

The band’s newest album “IV” was just released on Small Stone Records in September 2013. What fans will hear is arguably the power trio’s most mature, inspired and diverse song-set to date, chunked with compositional twists, both heartwarmingly familiar and totally unexpected, plus thundering power chords, sizzling solos, shrewd melodic flights and even super-trippy moments – but all of it heavy on the heavy, as they say…always. Unprecedented attention was also devoted to spinning engaging new yarns out of those evergreen rock and roll stories about love lost, hate found, relationships built and lives trashed, homes wrecked, etc. All’s fair in Love and Doom.

The band’s music has been featured on a variety of movies and television shows including FX’s original hit series Sons of Anarchy, A&E's Dog The Bounty Hunter, Jersey Girl, CW’s The Supernatural, and MTV’s Viva La Bam, Bam’s Unholy Union, Rob and Big, and the reissue of Clerks. They can also be heard on a number of video games including NHL 2005, American Chopper, and Monster Garage. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sasquatch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.