There is more than one band with this name;

1) Satan are a heavy metal band originating from Newcastle, England in 1979, known as part of the new wave of British heavy metal movement. The band is considered influential for playing a form of proto-thrash/speed metal that was fairly advanced by the standards of the early 1980s.

Their line-up has undergone a number of personnel changes and even name changes; for a time the band was called Blind Fury, putting out one album, 1985's Out of Reach, under that moniker before reverting to Satan. In 1988, the group changed its name to Pariah, releasing two albums under that name before folding in the early 90s. In 1998, Pariah released another album. The band's shifting line-up has included members of many other heavy metal bands such as Blitzkrieg, Atomkraft, Avenger, Persian Risk, Cronos and Battleaxe. In 1990, Steve Ramsey (guitar) and Graeme English (bass) together with singer Martin Walkyier of UK thrash metal band Sabbat founded folk metal band Skyclad.

Satan performed a one-off gig at Germany's Wacken Open Air in 2004 and finally reunited in 2011. Since their reunion, the band has performed at several European festivals and released a new album, Life Sentence, in April, 2013 via Listenable Records. In 2014 the band increased their global reach by touring in North and South America.

On 2 October 2015 the band released their fourth studio album, Atom by Atom, while two days earlier the entire album was made available for streaming via Invisible Oranges.

In 2018, the band signed a new multi-album recording contract with Metal Blade Records. Their fifth studio album and first under Metal Blade Records, Cruel Magic is due to be released on 7 September 2018. The first single from Cruel Magic, The Doomsday Clock, was released on 6 July.

2) Satan, Banja Luka, Republika Srpska, Raw Black Metal. Band was founded 2009 by Vožd Jovan Pogani (Sahrana, 1389, Goat Evil, Nan Elmoth, Prorok, ex-Goat Ritual). The same year "Nazaretski Lažov" (Liar of Nazareth) is recorded. Soon after AlekSS (Vocal) and Nikola (Guitar) joined, 

http://www.myspace.com/satanbakinacki

3) Satan is a French Grind/Black Metal band formed in 2009.

http://www.myspace.com/metalsatan666

4) SaTaN is a Japanese Visual rock band formed by the ex members of the band Schwarz Lilie who began activities in 2008 and went on hiatus in early  2011, to return in 2012 with their current 2 member lineup. 
(Please note: the unicode tag ＳａＴａＮ is an incorrect tag for this band).
Line Up:
'Frenzy Red Voice':  Mr.SaTaN (ex. Schwarz Lilie and BLOOD as Hayato)
'Motherfuckin’ Guitarist & Vocals': HI-NA
ex. members:
'Necrophilia Bassist & Backing vocals': Shiya
'Sexorcist Percussion & Death Voices': D.K

Official myspace:
http://www.myspace.com/satanweb

Official website:
http://visulog.jp/satan/

Note:
For the Russian breakcore artist tag your music as Sa†an.
For the South Park character tag your music as Trey Parker <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Satan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.