Formed in 2004, in Bucharest, Romania, Satanochio wanted to keep a very dark image, the members true identity remaining unknown to this day. "The First Strike of the Possessed"
E.P. was launched in early 2005. Although the press was acting in spite of this project,
the material is declared sold-out in only 3 weeks.


Just a month after, the drummer, Satan Imparat leaves the band. In May, Satanochio decides to make a gift to a devoted fan, at that moment with a one-man-band statute. Thus is
born "The Naughty Nightfall Massacre" a 6-track release limited to one Copy worldwide(!!!).


During the recording session for I Am Satanochio, the band works with Twilight13media
design studio for their first video ever- "Dracu-Dreaku", coming off their debut release
"The First Strike of the Possessed". In August 2005 Grui Sanger (drums/bass/guitar/
backing vocals) joins the band.

Satanochio releases on 09.09.2005 the maxi single Daemon, wich contains 3 tracks and
2 videos.


In late 2005 Satanochio participates in the METALKOMBAT contest, initiated by one of
the biggest national webzines, Metafan. The band is also featured on the
"Suport pentru underground" Maximum Rock compilation, followed by a series of interviews
for webzines and fanzines all over the world.


The debut album, "I Am Satanochio" is official released through Axa Valaha Productions
on the fatal date 06.06.06.The cd is fully - professional and it represents the biggest
investment ever in a Romanian underground black metal band. The album is highly promoted,
and it is distributed by local labels in Germany, Sweden, France, Hungary,Holland, Finland,
Denmark, Brazil, USA, etc.

For the promotion of "I Am Satanochio" were made 7 videos, Satanochio becoming the Romanian
band with most videos shotted for an album. An interview about the entity of
Satanochio appears on one of the biggest romanian metal magazines, Maximum Rock.
For the 2 years anniversary, a re-recorded, re-mixed track "Heihaiheihei" is released
as a single, on january 2007 and this single presents also the
first Satanochio video-clip in 2007.


On April 2007 is announced the brand-new member of Satanochio. His name is Nimenea, and
it will be from this date the drummmer in the band.


With 9 Official videos, some rare uncut scenes and the first video interview with
Satanochio ,"Dark Visions From The Fog" DVD is released in June 2007.
In late Octomber, Satanochio releases “Vagrant Matter Heritage”, the first
record in the new line up.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Satanochio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.