Denver Colorado Metal from Hell since 1986! Satan's Host the brain child of Guitar Virtuoso Patrick Evil in league with vocalist Leviathan Thisiren (Harry Conklin, Jag Panzer-Titan Force) released their first album "Metal From Hell" in 1986 with huge underground acclaim and Cult following. After the release of this monument album Satan's Host recorded the famous Bootleg "Midnight Wind" which never got official release, but has been bootlegged along with "Metal from Hell" after it went out of print all over the world for years to come.

Then Satan's Host went into hiatus and then reappeared in 1999 with L.C.F. Eli Elixir on vocals along with Patrick Evil on Guitars. The band went on to release "In Articulo Mortis" in 1999 with "Archidoxes of Evil" in 2000. The band took on a new sound going deeper into the darker side of Metal from the Traditional side.

In 2004 Eli Elixir, Patrick Evil and new drummer Pete 3 Wicked started the process with Dave Otero of Flatline Studios to record "Burning the Born Again… (A New Philosophy)", following in 2005 with the release of "Satanic Grimoire: A Greater Black Magick". With the newly formed structure of band and producer working team, Satan's Host was able to land a deal with Moribund Cult Records and begun production for 2008 release "Great American Scapegoat…666" which landed the band on a US tour which was a major success. Moribund also re-released "Burning the Born Again… (A New Philosophy)" and "Satanic Grimoire: A Greater Black Magick".

In the summer of 2008 Pete 3 Wicked left Satan's Host and in came current drummer Anthony "Evil Hobbit" Lopez and along with Patrick Evil and Eli Elixir they went back into Flatline Audio and produced "Power~Purity~Perfection…999" which gained rave reviews globally. At this time, current bass player Margar entered the ranks of the band.

Eli Elixir departed Satan's Host during the 2009 holiday season and in stepped back into the vocalist spot was Leviathan Thisiren. Immediately promoter Oliver Weinsheimer of the Keep It True festival booked Satan's Host for the German festival where die-hard cult fans have had a demand for Satan's Host for over quarter of a century. Satan's Host performed April 24 in Germany for a packed house of crazed fanatic Metal fans that poured in from all corners of Europe to see the true one and only originators of Metal from Hell for the first time ever.

Once back in the states the band begun production for the upcoming Moribund Cult Records release "By the Hands of the Devil" with long time producer Dave Otero at Flatline Audio. "I felt that me and Harry had some unfinished business from before, and how things have progressed lately I felt now was the best time to go ahead and take this to a whole new level," states Patrick Evil. The album was a hit in the global Metal market and has received critical acclaim and rave reviews.

Satan's Host then put out a second 2011 release on Nov. 22, the band put out a 25th anniversary album that commemorates the release of the cult classic "Metal from Hell" which is called "CELEBRATION For the Love of Satan" via Moribund Cult, the album has 12 tracks, 2 new and 10 tracks spanning off all the bands catalog, also acquiring critical acclaim and rave reviews globally.

On November 19, 2013 "Virgin Sails" was released, the follow up to "By the Hands of the Devil" was once again recorded at Flatline Studios with Dave Otero producing the new album with release via Moribund Cult Records. The new album has 8 complete full tracks with two guitar interludes. The band hopes to finally generate promoter interest globally and tour extensively with the new release. Satan's Host is also always developing new material for future releases and is actively keeping a presence in the Metal market and world.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Satan%27s+Host">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.