Sator Malus has been rehearsing behind the screens from the end of 2012, playing black metal in its most primary form yet with some modern elements mixed in. It is a furious essence which stays true to the black metal roots, yet ever developing into what's next to be (without too elaborate and forced experiments). Within the broad boundaries of black metal, and beyond, Sator Malus operates as a force to be reckoned with.
From heavy rehearsing have come great things for Sator Malus... More than enough material was written for debut album Dark Matters, to be released 30th of June at Forever Plagued Records (USA label). The album shall surely leave a large and lasting imprint in the cold grim ground of black metal, and more is to come due to endless creative craftsmanship.
Fresh in strength and spirit, the members however already earned their ranks in some other (black) metal bands. Starting up with only a drummer (VVvlfskvvintvs) and one guitarist (Naberius), soon a second guitarist (Allocer), bass player (Marbas) and vocalist (Pestis) joined. The band now was complete to vend their hatred of human weary weaknesses, and moodiness for the bad state of our sick species. Marbas however left the band. Then was immediately replaced by Eligos, also the producer of Dark Matters, and made the band at full power.
Atmosphere, anger and aggression are combined into proud, mostly long, pieces. Majestic melodies are varied with melancholy parts and pure riffing havoc. Mid-tempo, slow and fast parts are all here and drive out boredom. Technical abilities are less important yet present, reinforcing vehement track structures when needed.
Sator Malus (def. 'Evil Sower', or 'Evil Creator') is out there to release the raging beast of black metal upon mankind in their own specific way. On a perilous path, toward an elite existence, of power, pride. As heralder of honour, Sator Malus wants to shake and straighten things up rigidly through music, concepts and lyrics.
Lyric wise there is much hatred against humanity, with their corrupt mind and systems. Against all inferiority; superiority and pride are praised instead. From misanthropy toward mastery of the mistreated elements. On a cosmic scale, all life on earth can be seen in its quintessential nature. There is far more chaos than cosmos in this universe: in the existential balance between the forces of destruction and the forces of construction, the dark side is overwhelming. It is imperative to handle both of these primal forces. Creation from destruction, order from chaos, the eternal search for balance. Sator Malus praises the cosmic creations, and chaos as a catalyst for real change of false order in society (such as religion, politics, manipulation through mind control, media). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sator+Malus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.