Saturnian Mist is occult black metal band emerging from Tampere, Finland. The band was founded in 2006 by vocalist-songwriter fra. Zetekh and guitarist fra. Chaoswind at Kuopio, Finland first as a studio project. The first release was Self-titled demo (2008) released by infamous cult label Drakkar Productions which was well-spread and received in the underground while casting the first stone of the band's outputs.

The band's style changed from the traditional Finnish Black metal sound more towards harsh, death metal influenced black metal with the follow up release Repellings EP (2009). The same year Saturnian Mist started performing live and first concerts were carried out with great success in Sathanas In Gloriam Festivals at Rotterdam, Netherlands and Black Sunrise Festivals at St. Petersburg, Russia. Saturnian Mist became quickly known of their exceptionally powerful and energetic live appearances filled with chaos and mysticism. During the first live shows in 2009 fra. Ptahaz joined to the band and became an important force in the band.

Established around cabalistic idea of esoteric cults together with deeply occult, philosophical and satanic themes, Saturnian Mist's debut album Gnostikoi Ha-Shaitan (2011) was released by Finnish underground black metal label Ahdistuksen Aihio Productions. Even being a release from an underground label, the album caused lot of controversy because of the band's style - that was defying the boundaries of death and black metal with notable influences coming from the areas of heavy metal, thrash metal and even some hardcore punk. A music video was made from the song Aura Mystica which served also as a directorial debut of Frater Zetekh as well. After the debut's release, Saturnian mist promoted the debut album by performing live while sharing the stage with bands like Necros Christos, Ofermod, Antaeus, Mgla and Archgoat.

Line-up changes had been more a rule than an exception in the band's history but the band's output has never suffered any vacillation due to the band's nuclear-trio led by fra. Zetekh, fra. Chaoswind & fra. Ptahaz. During the years 2012-2013 band's line-up changed drastically to the point where Saturnian Mist transformed into a six-piece orchestra while introducing fra. Vile in drums, fra. Macabrum in bass and fra. Psychonaught in percussions. Follow up to this, the demo recordings of the new material led into a record deal with legendary Candlelight Records and the recordings of the band's second album began in the spring 2014.

In december 2014 Candlelight Records released a single titled The True Law from the becoming second album which included a music video directed and produced again by Frater Zetekh himself. In 20th April 2015 another music video was published. A psychotic and surreal Bloodsoaked Chakrament from the forth coming album forged by the same crew than before.

Saturnian Mist’s second album Chaos Magick was released world wide 27th April 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saturnian+Mist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.