Saturnian Current finds its musical inspiration from the perennial symbolism of Hermes Trismegistus (Hermeticism). Hermetic symbolic doctrine represents the harmonization of disparate elements, e.g. Earth and Sky, Above and Below, Existence and Essence, Lunar and Solar, Transcendence and Power, or as the ancient texts exhort: "Subliminate the body and embody the subtle." Instead of being a haphazard syncretism of opposing tendencies bound together only by a temporary aggregate or amalgamation of elements, this principle represents a cohesive sythesis of these same elements fused together in a more enduring union. This same principle can be found in basic chemistry where a chemical bond is contrasted with a mere emulsion. The former type of union must be redissolved back into its substratum in order to return to its former constituent elements, the later merely restratifies during a prolonged period of inertia. From this fact we can witness the qualitative and ontological difference between these two different types of unions based on the varying degrees of stength in their respective compostions. The bond being the stronger one is that which requires a greater degree of active energy exerted towards its dissolution.
Saturnian Current is this type of artistic endeavor that strives for that level of inner cohesion between disparate elements requisite to distinguish itself as a sythesis rather than a syncretism. In this endeavor Hermes Trismegistus guides our way. Every musical offering is an attempt towards the completion of this endeavor. The principle itself is secure and undisturbed by the endeavor; however, the endeavor must either rise or fall based on its approximation of this principle. At the onset of this project there are no guarantees as to where the journey will lead us, nor if it will be completed. Musical content may vary. Lyrical content may vary. But the overarching goal remains the same: the closest possible approximation of harmony between elements with which it is comprised. Along the way expect some twists, turns and contortions; progressions, regressions and even digressions. Saturnian Current is an open canvas subject to the vicissitudes of our imagination and artistic license. Our hermetic credo: Embrace the experimental while making the conventional interesting!     <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saturnian+Current">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.