Formed in 2003 by Peterman and Trzcinski out of the ashes of their respective woodsheds. Drawing equally from Metallica's infrastructure, Carnivore's Aggression, and Death's Technicality, they began to write and refine their sound. Lofty aspirations quickly begat jading cynicism as the duo struggled to find quality musicians. In 2006, after sifting though possibly every semi-talented drummer in Southeastern Michigan, the guys recruited drumming wunderkind and professional question asker, Dimitri Mitropoulos. Soon enlisting the metal-ly disaffected Bass genius of Alan Budlong (Half Dog Jury, Cursed Eternity, Vortex of Malice) they retreated into the studio to record their debut album.

Released on February 1st, 2008, containing 8 tracks of the best they had come up with at the time, Creation of Failure, was sonic equivalent of the desperation known only when locked in close quarters with a Greek drummer. With their special brand of plague now unleashed, the band played relentlessly over the coming months visiting corners of the Earth that made R'lyeh look like Ann Arbor.

Upon returning home, internal quarrels split the band like an anal fissure. After much deliberation, Satyrasis bid adieu to long standing drummer, Dimitri Mitropoulos, allowing Year 200x drummer Jake Byran to ascend the throne. Not long after, Satyrasis embarked once again upon the road, this time with Sniffles the Bong and his jolly jackasses, Cavalcade. From the great northern wilderness to the backwoods anytown, they rocked the VFW's like grandma's old rockin' chair, returning home with aspirations of heading south come Fall.

As of today, their whereabouts are unknown. Reliable sources have shown that they’re held up amongst the industrial wasteland of Ingham County, with nothing but their guitars, their wits, and a room full of cats...

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Satyrasis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.