1) A progressive metal band from Iowa. 

2) Saul is a slovak Alternative R&B singer / rapper, under the label WELOVEVERYSIMPLE. He's a part of the rap formation "Khans", consisting also of another rapper "Nicholas Naison" and a producer "Nuri". He debuted with the mixtape "Ikigai" in 2017, continued releasing singles less frequently, then in the beginning of 2018 released an EP "Hotel 471 - EP. His sound can be compared to other Alternative R&B artists that use modern hip hop styled production, like "The Weeknd or "Kevin Abstract. Most of his work is produced by "Nuri". He gained some popularity after one of the more popular rappers of the slovak scene "Samey" featured him on two songs on his debut solo record ("Zajtrajsok Pride Dnes (feat. Saul)" and Vlasy Veju Vo Vetre (feat. Saul & Hasan)". He was also featured on the single "Nadej", which was arguably his biggest success yet.

3) A Canadian hard rock band -
It’s hard to stand out in today’s fiercely ruthless music industry, but still Saul has managed to elude many obstacles and captivate audiences from all over. Hailing from Victoria BC, Canada, and formed just a few short years ago Saul pooled talent from local sensations, Element 7, Twice Born, and Dizzy. Their sound enveloping a fusion of metal, rock, and pop has been earning them a strong and well deserved fan base with what now is considered one of the best live shows on the west coast. 
In May, 2007 Saul earned “Band of the Month” on The Zone @ 91.3. The honor included radio play, radio interviews and a huge promotional (sold out) showcase at the end of the month. During this period Saul received a “staggering” number of requests making them the most popular band of the month since its inception began several years ago. 
Saul has shared the stage with countless prominent Independent acts as well as Metal legends Skid Row, Thornley, The Armchair Cynics, and State Of Shock. 

4) A UK electronic music duo. 
Saul is a new duo composed of Barney Whittaker (Footshooter) and Jack Stephenson-Oliver (Vels Trio / Poppy Ajudha / Charlotte dos Santos)
The band, having debuted at Brainchild Festival in 2018, have spent the last couple of years working on material for their stunning debut EP on Rhythm Section this year. 
Featuring friends and frequent collaborators Brother Portrait (Steam Down) and Poppy Ajudha, the 6 track EP simmers with a potent UK energy; paying homage to the sounds of Garage, Jungle and Broken Beat all in the context of the new wave of London Jazz - of which all members of this project are key players.
All in all, the EP is equally at home in the club as it is in the living room, owing to it’s balance of epicness and musicality. This is undoubtedly a product of London town and couldn’t fit more perfectly with the expansive sound of Rhythm Section INTL. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saul">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.