The idea behind this German power metal band was spawned by Thomen Stauch as he was having trouble seeing his new compositions fit into the direction his former band Blind Guardian was taking. Thomen Stauch discussed this idea with old friend Piet Sielck  of Iron Savior, Thomen introduced the idea of forming a band following the style these new songs had: dynamic, melodic and intricate arrangements topped off with soaring vocals. The only problem was with whom he should team up with to realize this new band. Having heard Thomen's songs, Piet suggested he should check out Persuader as he had produced their sophomore album Evolution Purgatory. Thomen instantly felt the connection between his new compositions and the songwriting style found on the Persuader album. Piet supplied Thomen with the contacts for Emil Norberg and Jens Carlsson who really liked the idea to work with Thomen on this project.  Having known Piet for a long time as a great guitarist and an experienced producer, he asked him to be a part of this new band as well - of course, he was delighted to.

Still, there were some practical problems to be solved with these young Swedes being quite far away. However, the Internet came to the rescue. The possibility of having access to Piet's studio during the songwriting sessions made this quite an easy mission. Sending mp3 files back and forth and discussing song structures and sounds through e-mails and phone conversations became a natural way to work for Savage Circus. Then, as soon as everybody was available, they met up in Hamburg at Piet's studio to record stuff and have a beer or two, iced tea if you happen to be Thomen. After this get-together two songs were finished, "Evil Eyes" and "IT - The Gathering". Excited by the fast progress everybody returned home and continued their songwriting and mp3-sending until there was nine Savage Circus original songs finished.

In February 2005, Thomen began laying down the final drum tracks for the debut album at Hammer studios (formerly known as Karo Studios) with Piet. Following the drum recordings Piet recorded the final rhythm guitars and bass tracks. Shortly after, Emil and Jens headed to Hamburg again to record their respective guitar and vocal parts. Just before mixing the album, Thomen made the decision to leave Blind Guardian due to reasons only he and his band know. This made Savage Circus his main band. As this was only meant to be a side project from the beginning it suddenly became significantly more serious. Piet, together with Rolf Köhler (also from Blind Guardian), delivered the backing vocals for the album, and after this an extensive mixing and finalizing session took place.

On August 29th, 2005, their debut album Dreamland Manor was released.

In August 2006, the band decided to release founding member Thomen Stauch from all duties  due to personal problems. While touring in 2006 and 2007 Thomas Nack of Iron Savior fame played live, replacing the original drummer.

With Mike Terrana joining the band in September 2007 the open drum position was filled with a drummer being able to measure up with his predecessor. Also Yenz Leonhardt became a full member. With the new line-up the band began to write songs again and created the 2nd studio album. All members contributed to the songwriting sending back and forth bits and pieces, parts and lyrics via the internet. During 2008/2009 the material grew more and more and in spring 2009 the band was ready to jump into the studio and produce .

Savage Circus is more than ready to return to the scene. The long awaited new album "Of Doom And Death” shows all trademarks of “Dreamland Manor”. Progressive and powerful songwriting combined with elaborate arrangements, lots of melodies and harmonies, raging guitars rounded up with the vocals towering on the music. 
Soulfood Lyric wise Savage Circus are picking up on Stephen King’s “Dark Tower”, Frank Herbert’s “Dune” and other fantasy and dark tales. From speed monsters such as the title track “Of Doom And Death” to the majestic “Ballad Of Susan” Savage Circus created an album with all the varieties one would expect . Savage Circus are definitely back and ready to deliver another banging album.

In 2011 Piet Sielck left the band. A year later Mike Terrana and Yenz Leonhardt made the same move. The original drummer Thomen Stauch returned to the band after 6 years of absence. Mi Schüren, who plays keyboards during the Blind Guardian shows, joined the band as the keyboardist and Thorsten "Toto" Hain joined the band as a guitarist.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Savage+Circus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.