Formed in 2002 in the center of France with and by members of Defecal Of Gerbe (Goregrind), Blosius ( Brutal Death ) and Brennkelt (Black Metal), SAVAGE ANNIHILATION is all about being true to what its name suggests.

A first eight tracks demo, “Death in Progress” is released in 2004, which gets them the opportunity to open for a wide amount of bands (among which Happy Face, Trepan’Dead…). The demo is followed, in 2008, by a split CD (with Decrepify (US), Visceral (Chile) and Ad Nauseum (FR)), featuring three tracks, among which a Sepultura cover that’s gonna end on two different tributes also (“From Roots to the Seed” – Chabane’s recs & “A Grind Tribute to 80’s Thrash” – Inhuman Homicide recs). Since then, the band has constantly played everywhere they’ve been able to in Europe.

For their tenth year mark, SAVAGE ANNIHILATION are proud to announce that they’ve inked a multi-album deal with up-and-coming French label KAOTOXIN RECORDS (home of Darkall Slaves, Dehuman, Eye Of Solitude, Gronibard, Infected Society, Insain, Unsu, VxPxOxAxAxWxAxMxCx…) which will result in the release, on October 1st, of their debut full-length, “Cannibalisme, hérésie et autres sauvageries” (ten tracks, 40+ minutes).

Raw, brutal, fast, blasting and featuring sick soloing, SAVAGE ANNIHILATION is bringing back that primal proto Death Metal feeling the likes of Morbid Angel (“Abominations” / “Altars”-era), (early) Sepultura, (early) Krisiun, Nephasth or Nefas made popular before them, with the addition of their very own vision of twisted-ness.

“Cannibalisme, hérésie et autres sauvageries” will unleash SAVAGE ANNIHILATION’s heretic Armageddon upon mankind, joining the Great Old Ones in their quest for the (savage) annihilation of mankind.

Band:
Dave - guitar & vocals
Mike - drums
Benoit - Bass

www.savageannihilation.com 
www.savageannihilation.bigcartel.com 
www.myspace.com/savageannihilation 
savageannihilation.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Savage+Annihilation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.