Save Our Souls is an American progressive metal band formed in 2010.

The band consists of singer George William, guitarist Julian Ken, and drummer Jason D’Amelio, all of whom played together in Chiba-Ken, a hard rock band based out of New York City. Chiba-Ken was one of the last bands to be signed out of CBGB’s before the legendary club closed its doors in 2006.

George and Jason are New York natives, while Julian is a native of Kazakhstan and came to America by way of Israel. Julian received an Artists’ Visa after showing “exceptional skill in the performing arts”. Het met George while they were both residing in Brooklyn and joined the band soon after. The first show for the band with Julian was opening for Iron Maiden at the Blossom music center in Ohio in 2008.

In 2009 the band relocated from New York City to Los Angeles and changed their name to Save Our Souls. Within one year of the move they performed at the 2010 Super Bowl halftime party at the Playboy Mansion, earned a 10-month residency at the Whisky A Go-Go, and got their music licensed by MLB, ESPN, and the Suicide Girls featured on Showtime.

In 2011 Save Our Souls changed their musical direction from hard rock to progressive metal, parting with their other two members in the process. They wrote 21 new songs and recorded four of them with producer Tom Chandler to create the “Animal” EP, which was released in February of 2012.

On the Animal EP, SOS worked with Marcin “Martin” Rygiel, former bassist of Decapitated, one of the biggest death metal bands to come out of Poland who are now touring with Meshuggah.

Currently bassist Pete Griffin is performing with the band. Pete just finished a 6-year run with the band Zappa Plays Zappa featuring Dweezil Zappa. He received a Grammy for his work with the band, and has shared the stage with many talented musicians including Steve Vai and Danny Carey.

Save Our Souls is booking shows on the west coast and will be returning to the recording studio with Chandler to record a full-length album set to be released at the end of the summer of 2012.

As an independent band Save Our Souls has written, recorded and maintained the rights to all of its material outright. Collectively, all of the members have toured either nationally or internationally.

Save Our Souls members have played with Iron Maiden, The Smashing Pumpkins, Steve Vai, Slash, God Forbid, 40 Below Summer, Candiria, Danny Carey of Tool, Dave Lombardo of Slayer, Kittie, Glassjaw, From Autumn to Ashes, Boysetsfire, Steel Panther and many more.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Save+Our+Souls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.