Norwegian gothic metal legends The Sins Of Thy Beloved have been dormant since 2000 - following the release of their second album “Perpetual Desolation” - and after years of a rumored reunion, Stig Johansen and Anders Thue have instead risen from the ashes with a new band, SAVN, and a new vision.
 
The seeds for SAVN (translated: Deprivation) officially took root when multi-instrumentalist Stig contacted Midnattsol vocalist and long-time friend Carmen Elise Espenæs  about singing one song for the planned SAVN album. Carmen agreed, and Stig and Anders (keyboards) were so pleased with the final result they invited her to sing on the entire record. With Midnattsol rendered inactive for the time being due to personal commitments within the band, and her new role as a singer, as well as a mother of an adorable daughter, the Norwegian powerhouse found herself with enough time and refueled with energy to take part in this new musical journey.

And, how did all this come together as a band?

“In the beginning they just wanted me here and there in parts of the songs”, Carmen reveals, “but I became more and more involved as we worked. There were some parts that I asked if we could change them because I had a chorus or melody line that needed to be in there. They decided that it would be best to say that I'm part of the band. I loved the music when I first heard it, and working with them in the studio was a great experience.”
 
SAVN is uncharted territory for the trio in that the music is unlike anything created by The Sins Of Thy Beloved or Midnattsol.

There are obvious metal and goth influences within the music - very reminiscent of early Theatre Of Tragedy in places (‘The Demons In Me’, ‘Now Or Never’) - and prominent folk elements (‘Musical Silence’, ‘All I Want’, ‘I Am Free’), but it’s also surprisingly rock-oriented and heavy that it can’t be pigeonholed as a “typical” female fronted goth/metal. The music is warm and upbeat while the lyrical concepts are inviting you on a journey and touching your soul. 

SAVN’s self titled debut album, recorded, mixed and produced by Alex Krull (Atrocity, Leaves' Eyes) at Mastersound Studios in Germany, features several guest performers. Carmen’s sister Liv Kristine (Leaves' Eyes) appears on ’I Am Free’, while Michelle Darkness (End Of Green) turns up on ’The Demons In Me’. On the musical side, fiddle players Dag Bjørkedal and Lillian Hodne play a large part in rounding out the SAVN sound. And, additional strings were provided by the famed Lingua Mortis Orchestra on ‘Sorrowful’ and ‘Lengselens Hånd’, directed and recorded by composer and Rage guitarist Victor Smolski.

Source - http://www.savn-official.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Savn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.