Saxorior is a Melodic Black Metal band from Germany - founded in January 1994 by Matthias Eschrich (vocals, guitars), Kai-Uwe Schneider (vocals, guitars),Dirk David (drums) and Uwe Vogt (bass). The name stands for Saxon Warrior.

In June 1994, Matthias and Kai-Uwe, former members of the renowned East German band "Titan", produced the  first demo tape, entitled The First Fight.
In the same year, Timo Pfeifer from Corpsess replaced Dirk David on the drum chair.
Besides several regional live gigs. Saxorior were special guests on the metal broadcast "Six Pack", hosted by Matthias Hopke, on "Radio Energy" in  November 1994. 

In springtime 1995, the band started the studio-recordings for their first full-length album Return From The Dark Side. Due to technical and financial reasons the release date of the record was delayed until November 1995, when it was finally unleashed upon the metal community. The lyrical concept is based around antonymous topics like life and death, the universe, creation and decline. In December 1995, the CD was introduced on "Radio Energy".

After the new keyboard player Frank Nitzsche had joined the line-up, several concerts e.g. with Eminenz, Benediction and Iced Earth followed. In August and September 1996, the songs for the MCD Beyond Conceptions were recorded, solely produced and financed by the band. In October 1996,  the record release party took place in Altenberg, situated in the Ore Mountains. Together with performances of Purgatory and Venena it received excellent acclaim. 

The years 1997 and 1998 were reserved for concerts, for example with Eisregen, Dunkelgrafen and Enslaved. Furthermore, new song material was collected.
In November 1998, one of the new songs called "Burning Stone" appeared on the compilation of the G.U.C. fanzine. 

The year 1999 should by then be the most productive one, which besides many live gigs climaxed in the performance at the "Bischofswerda Open Air". In springtime 1999, Kai-Uwe opened up his "Polygam" sound studio in Pirna. In May/June 1999, 
the album Portent Of Eternity was recorded there and released on the underground label G.U.C. In August of the same year. 
On this record you can hear the typical Saxorior-style, still topical today.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Saxorior">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.