Scalpel are a five piece Death Metal/Grind band from Attelboro, Massachusetts.

Scalpel began in mid 2008, after the disbanding of Greg and Taylor's previous band, Morturion. It started out as nothing but a two-man studio project, the original intention being to play brutal, raw as fuck old school death metal. As time passed, and Taylor reunited with old friend Manny Egbert at the Berkelee Summer Guitar Sessions, the decision was made to recruit Manny and begin making this thing serious. The spots of drummer and bassist were filled and vacated many times over the year, until we found Mike and Ben. Mike Romero was asked to fill the spot of bassist, adding his fretless bass techniques to the formula in the footsteps of Death, Atheist, and Cynic. And, after time and time again of drummer replacement and failure, we recruited old time friend Ben "Dumptruck" Kelly into the lineup after he helped us out for the Summer Slaughter festival. Ben draws influences from such virtuosic drummers as Flo Mounier, John Longstreth, and George Kollias. Now, as a full band, we intend to break as many barriers in music as we possibly can, as well as show the world that death metal is here to stay. Come to our shows, listen to our shit, learn the words and love the tunes. Help spread the word and we will keep giving all you sick bastards something to feel nauseous to.

strange facts in the Scalpel case is a flemish (Belgian) old-school Death metal project consisting of 2 members: Skullator on vocals and guitars Burial Ground, Duvel, ex-Embraced by Death) and Fynbrenn ó Torcklàn (Wapenspraak & Drinkgelag, ex-Zwaardbroeder): drums and concept.

Scalpel is a Finnish Grindcore band with death- and thrash metal influences, and it totally sucks! The band consists of five memembers: Antti & Jaakko - guitars, Niko - bass, Miika - drums and Otto - vocals and consonants. Band was founded in 2006 and the name came to be Scalpel, when Kai from Deathbound said it sounded good. The other nominees for the name were Frontline diarrhea, Paskalapion nakkelijat, Rutnake, Pylsberger etc. 
As does the band, this description does suck. So I'll regurgitate a better one when the band has got something recorded. Rock out with your cock out!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scalpel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.