Scary Kids Scaring Kids (abbreviated SKSK) is an American post-hardcore band formed in Gilbert, Arizona, United States, in 2002. The current line-up is: Chad Crawford (guitar/vocals), Pouyan Afkary (keyboards/vocals), Peter Costa (drums), and Jordan Flower (bass).

They released an EP After Dark (2003), and two studio albums The City Sleeps in Flames (2005) and Scary Kids Scaring Kids (2007) with the late member and lead vocalist Tyson Stevens. The band disbanded following a farewell tour in 2010.

Vocalist Tyson Stevens was found dead from a suspected heroin overdose on the morning of October 20, 2014 at the age of 29. On September 29, 2019, Scary Kids Scaring Kids released a song titled "Loved Forever" to honour what would have been a wish of Stevens's 34th birthday. The song was written by rhythm guitarist Chad Crawford and produced by Hiram Hernandez.

On November 18, 2019, members Crawford, Afkary and Costa announced that Scary Kids Scaring Kids would be reuniting for one more time for the 15 year anniversary tour of The City Sleeps in Flames release alongside touring members featuring ex-Saosin and Dead American frontman Cove Reber on vocals, Don Vedda on lead guitar and Jordan Flower on bass.

The band released a new album, "Out For Light"  May 27, 2022, featuring different lead vocalists on each track, including Lil Lotus, Mod Sun, Spencer Chamberlain of Underoath, among others.

The band – which originally was composed of Tyson Stevens on bass guitar and lead vocals (later to be strictly the vocalist/song writer), guitarists Chad Crawford, DJ Wilson (later to switch to bass) and Steve Kirby, Pouyan Afkary on keyboards, and drummer Peter Costa – recorded their self-financed debut EP, After Dark, while they were still in high school.
Their debut album, The City Sleeps in Flames, was released on Immortal Records in 2005.
A self-titled second album was released on 28th November 2007. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scary+Kids+Scaring+Kids">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.