There are several musicians called Scarab.

1.  Scarab - Death Metal band from Egypt

Scarab is a death metal band from Cairo, Egypt formed in 2006. Sprouting from the band “Hatesuffocation” which had roots running since 2001 until 2006 with 2 self-released EPs. The name Scarab is definitely influenced by the Egyptian roots of the band. These creatures became iconic in Ancient Egyptian culture and regarded as sacred due to the Scarab’s association with the sun god. During mummification the ancient Egyptians used to replace the heart of the dead with a scarab believing that it would help with the rebirth in the afterlife. In that sense, the Scarab portrays the band’s ability to reinvent themselves, survive and rise over the obstacles in their path.

The year 2009 has been a major leap for the band with the recording of their first full length album entitled “Blinding The Masses” which is a continuation over their previous EP “Valley of The Sandwalkers” (2007). That same year Scarab won the “United We Rock” battle and got selected out of 160 bands from the middle-east and pan-Arab countries. They performed at two acclaimed international music festivals, “With Full Force XVI 2009” in Germany (alongside Amon Amarth, Carcass, My Dying Bride and Dimmu Borgir) and “Dubai Desert Rock Festival 2009” in UAE (opening for Motörhead, Opeth, Arch Enemy and Chimaira).

Formed of a combination of different musical tastes and personalities, Scarab stand as a united musical entity. The music came out from the fierce. deep and complicated feelings, thoughts and experiences; expressing all this through new and fresh progressions that matches their identity and captures the soul and heart, making it melodically memorable and a journey to a story being told, while the lyrical themes are mainly about spirituality, theories and philosophies in how they perceive the world around them and how to survive and deal with the chaotic human nature.
Scarab feels that what they are playing is the best and they cant imagine playing any other genre of metal.They feel they are a part of extreme metal community.The concept of Scarab is simply groove according to them.
Official Website: www.scarabegypt.com. 
MySpace Page: http://www.myspace.com/scarabegypt

Discography:

2007: Valley of the Sandwalkers [EP]
2009: Blinding The Masses

2. Scarab is ethno dub project, which was formed by three musicians Captain Kowatchi, Professor Shehab & Spectre.
The band released albums on the label WordSound, whose head was one of the project participants Skiz Fernando Jr. aka Spectre
 
Discography:

1994: Scarab
1996: Secrets of the Past and Future

3. Scarab - NWOBHM band from United Kingdom  (Sutton Coldfield, Birmingham) formed in 1981.

Discography:

1984: Poltergeist [EP]
1985: Demo
2009: Soul For A Soul 10" [EP]

* A double CD anthology is reportedly being planned for release through The Miskatonic Foundation.

MySpace Page: www.myspace.com/scarabhwobhm

4. A Czech composer.
5. A Hip Hop artist.
6. An artist from The Gold Coast, Australia.
7. An alias of a Swedish trance music producer Jezper Söderlund, better known as Airbase .

5. Scarab - 1990's Long Island Punk / Indie Rock band.

A former 90's indie/emo/punk rock DIY band from Long Island, New York. Named after ancient Egypt's magic shaped amulets, Scarab started touring in 1994 with their melodic yet aggressive sound. Scarab consisted of Melanie Wills' haunting vocals, Milan Millevoy on guitar, Lee Greenman on bass, and Dan Lopez drumming. A record deal went bad lead to their inevitable breakup. Members went on to form One True Thing. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scarab">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.