Scarlet Horizon Band was formed on September 5th 2004 by the members Caio Alexandre (vocals), Daniel Lima (Guitars), Guilherme Castello (guitars), Thyedro da Cruz (bass) and Gustavo Barcellos (drums) with the common purpose of making original and heavy songs. After the band's official birth, soon are followed series of concerts throughout the State of Rio de Janeiro, with a warm welcome by the public and critics on every single one of them.

At this moment the first of many writings are originated, soon showing what the band was all about: heavy and elaborated guitar works, vocals that alternate between clean and aggressive approaches, and dense atmosphere that marks many of the songs. The bandmates' influences could be clearly perceived and determined the direction of the band. Savatage, Queensrÿche, Slayer, Helloween, Iron Maiden and Megadeth were some of those influences, showing evidently the mix of lyric and aggressive sides.

The beginning of 2006 is marked by the joining of keyboardist Rodrigo Pestana (Caio's ex-bandmate from a Helloween cover band) and in July 2006, after professional divergences, the drummer Gustavo Barcellos no longer takes part in Scarlet Horizon lineup, being then replaced by Juninho di Melo.

In 2007 the arrangements for the band's debut release are initiated. In January two more losses – Rodrigo Pestana and Juninho di Melo leave the band due to personal problems. Even with the setbacks the recording of the EP named Sunset in the Abyss are started, at the studio of the renowned producer Sidney Sohn. At the beginning of the process the guitarist Guilherme Castello leaves the band to focus solely on his studies.

In July, Sunset in the Abyss is finally released, with graphic arts signed by the experienced graphic artist Gustavo Sazes. Containing three original songs, they obtained great reviews from the public in general, being advertised even in North America and Europe radio stations. In August, drummer Juninho di Melo returns to Scarlet Horizon and later, at the beginning of 2008 a new guitarist joins the band, Victor Dominguez. While tests with keyboardists are made, the divulgation of the band's first official material starts.

At the end of 2008, guitarist Daniel Lima suffers a major accident, which compels him to retreat from musical activities and to detach from the band, being replaced by a new guitarist, Daniel do Valle. After relentless auditions, Caio Dieguez is chosen as the new tecladist, therefore closing the lineup.

The promotion of Sunset in the Abyss returns, including on other states, with the band being requested for many events. However, due to new divergences, Juninho Di Mello is definitely removed from the activities. Eduardo Belchior is then recruited as replacement. A few other concerts are performed until Caio Dieguez leaves the band due to availability problems, being soon after replaced by Thales Guimarães. Still suffering with the losses, due to problems to deal with studies and music, Thyedro da Cruz leaves Scarlet Horizon, leaving Caio Alexandre as the only remaining original member.
 
A tiresome series of auditions then begin, until Ivan Osório is chosen as new bass player. Once again restored the lineup, the band is invited to many events, opening concerts for ANGRA , as well as the André Matos' solo band, also playing alongside MINDFLOW. Soon after, the guitarist Victor Dominguez leaves Scarlet Horizon due to musical incompatibilities. Now the band finds itself working with the release of the first album in mind, and performing in many concerts focusing the promotion of their work. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scarlet+Horizon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.