SCARRED BY BEAUTY was formed in 2006 by brothers Dennis and Daniel Leszkowicz and childhood friend Jonathan Albrechtsen (Ex Hatesphere). In 2007 highschool friend Asser Mortensen joined the band, and in 2010 the last piece of the puzzle was found, when long time friend Chris Kreutzfeldt (ex drummer in Mudslide) joined as well. In spite of very different musical backgrounds and preferences such as reggae, hip hop, soul, death metal and house SBB shares a mutual love for the more extreme genres and through years the band has been developing their talent together. Early on it became clear for the young band (which has an average age of no more than 21 years) that the aim is to perform live. The hyperactive musicians are dedicated and aware about their choices. The core of SBB has always been deep friendship and high spirits, which also is part of the explanation to the band’s, in the metal industry, unorthodox appearance of joy and positivity.
Their EP “We Swim” won at Danish Metal Awards 2009 in the category “Talent of the Year”. The jury, who chose “We Swim” out of 25 other Danish submissions, had the following to say: “The winner of this award truly stood out. The song writing, the sound and the furious arrangements, the intelligence and uniqueness make We Swim the genuine stand out“. The members of the jury consisted of international representatives from record labels and music press such as Roadrunner Records, Nuclear Blast Records, Lifeforce Records, Massacre Records, Listenable Records and MetalHammer UK.
SCARRED BY BEAUTY’s new full-length album, “Sutra” follows in the path of their previously released EP “We Swim”, and clearly shows how the band has grown and developed new sides to their music. Both musically and lyrically, the album follows a distinct pattern and it’s easy to recognize the personal and honest style of SCARRED BY BEAUTY. The title, “Sutra”, refers to this pattern and literally it means the thread or line that holds things together. “Sutra” is the first full-length album from SCARRED BY BEAUTY. On “Sutra” the band combines a range of various styles, in a new and playful way. From pounding punk and hardcore passages, into vast and melodic landscapes the band mixes noise rock-, metal- and core genres with minimalistic lyrics, in a graceful, unique and refreshing way. “Sutra” stands as a solid and personal product from the Danish band.
In 2010 SCARRED BY BEAUTY already played a DK tour, and a European Tour. Apart from that, SCARRED BY BEAUTY also performed at both SPOT Festival and START Festival in 2010, and furthermore they played as main support for Gojira on two occasions, in Berlin and in Copenhagen. For the spring of 2011 SCARRED BY BEAUTY are also confirmed as co-headliner of 3rd Tsumani Agency’s annual tour for upcoming bands, New Era Tour, which previously featured Last Mile among others. During the summer/fall of 2011 the band will venture on a massive touring campaign to promote “Sutra”. The tour includes Benelux, Balkan, Scandinavia, Italy, GAS, and UK. On this tour the band will function as support for Black Dahlia Murder, For the Fallen Dream, Sworn Enemy, Bury your Dead & Texas in July.
In total SCARRED BY BEAUTY stands as a strong new name, ready to advance to the international level. The band’s passion is undeniable, and combined with their commitment to take SCARRED BY BEAUTY to a higher level it seems there is no stopping this Danish five-piece.

http://www.myspace.com/scarredbybeauty <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scarred+by+Beauty">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.