Scars (originally known as The Scars) were a post-punk  band that hailed from Edinburgh, Scotland, and were a part of that city's bustling music scene of the late 70s - early 80s. They released number of 7"'s from 1979 - 1981 and in 1981 they released their one and only album Author! Author!

Fronted by Robert King and featuring Paul Research on lead guitar, John Mackie on bass, and Calumn Mackay on drums, the band's original sound was angular and offset with a dance-based rhythm section, as evidenced by their 1979 single for Fast Product "Horrorshow"/"Adult/ery". The band's popular set-closing song "Your Attention Please" appeared as a free gold flexi-disc in the third edition of the influential London-based style magazine i-D. This aforementioned song would later be included in the band's 1981 (and sole) album Author! Author!, but in the meantime the group maintained an ever-mounting momentum and attention via singles releases and constant touring, and soon they were noticed by John Peel. Peel invited the band to record two of his legendary Sessions, once in February 1980 and another in May 1981.

By the time the band started recording Author! Author!, their sound had matured from being rough and aggressive to something more melodic. From that album sprang perhaps the most recognizable Scars song out there, "All About You", which was the only single launched directly from that album. Calumn Mackay left Scars the year prior to the album's release, so Steve McLaughlin took over drumming duties for the band at around this time. The band continued to receive positive attention and increase their fan base as they were first able to co-headline gigs with the The Comsat Angels, then headline gigs with Josef K as their supporting act. Scars even managed to land a full-page spread in Smash Hits. By that time, the band was headquartered in London

In the summer of 1982, Scars landed a supporting slot with Australia's The Church as the headliners. This was to be the beginning of the end for the band. Having been together—and constantly playing live gigs—since they were all teenagers in 1977, the glue that held the band together started to weaken. Robert King left the band and the rest of the band members, in turn, tried to keep the band going as a cohesive unit with Paul Research taking over lead vocal duties. The band recorded a song called "Bone Orchard" for a planned second album that never materialized; at year's end, the Scars were no more. King would soon go on to modest but temporary success as a solo artist (the synthpop-ish "Paper Heart" being the most notable of his recordings), but by the mid '80s the various Scars bandmates have been content to continue being musicians and pursuing other interests beyond the glare of the limelight.

After their break up, there has been a recent resurgence of interest and attention on the Scars ever since electronica artists Lemon Jelly elected to use samples of "Horrorshow" at the urging of band member Fred Deakin, who was a huge Scars fan in his youth. The samples were utilized in their song "'79 aka The Shouty Track" (or "The Shouty Track" for short), for inclusion in the album '64 - '95. The song was also the second single released from that album. When it came time for Lemon Jelly to tour in support of '64 - '95, they invited a partially reformed version of Scars (that included original drummer Calumn Mackay) along to play live the sampled parts of "79 - The Shouty Track" in selected dates, including in the Scars' former home base of Edinburgh.

Guitarist Paul Research is the most visible former member of Scars and maintains a de facto official Scars site.

They have also released a live album from 1981 
Scars Live Valentino's Edinburgh Sunday June 21 1981

Scars did their first gig in December 2010 in Edinburgh after an absence of 25 years. They also played  a live session in February 2011 for Marc Riley on BBC Radio 6 Music. They are currently working on a new album to be released in 2012

There are several other bands called Scars.

Scars is a blues-rock band featuring Gary Moore, ex-Skunk Anansie bassist Cass Lewis and Primal Scream drummer Darrin Mooney.

Scars is a thrash metal band from Brazil.http://www.scars.com.br/

Scars is also a japanese hiphop band composed by rappers like Seeda, Bay4k, A-Thug, Sticky, Manny <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scars">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.