THE BAND BIO

Even playing in other bands in the past, back in 1991 Rogério Segall and Ricardo Segall decided to come up with a new band that would allow them to show their entire musical potential. Everything was being composed and now they were looking for a new singer. Andréa Palmieri then joined the band after a studio experience where both, guitarrist and bass player realized they have finally found the missing piece they were looking for.

 

At the beginning, SCARS SOULS sounded heavy and raw and also pretty much like the sound listened in the 90's... A bit of heavy vibes and some psychedelism... That kinda "feel". After the release of their first demo tape entitled MAKING CONTACT, the band finally met their main drummer, Adilson Junior. For years to go, the main band line up was: Andréa Palmieri - vocals, Rogério Segall - acoustic and electric guitars, Ricardo Segall - bass and Adilson Junior - Drums and percussion.

The years went by and the band became stronger. Always counting on fans to spread the name around, SCARS SOULS releases their first debut independently. And so invitations to play all over started as well as many to figure on several compilation albums and projects. The first album, entitled SCARS SOULS, was a mix of all the songs written since the begging. Even though gathering a lot of ideas the album got very much in touch with the public.



The second album entitled TROIA (TROY), was released in 1998 when the band matureness could be felt through solid compositions and TROIA became an acclaimed album by public and critic all over the country even reaching foreign borders giving the band the spotlight they deserved. Even with all this response from media and fans, they were still struggling to find a record company or lable who might be interested in releasing the album. But those were much different times and reaching out for foreign lables and contacts was a much difficult thing that it is nowadays.

 

During all these years, SCARS SOULS spread their music struggling against adversities sending out their material to several countries small labels, distributors, rock magazines, music collectors and fans.

 

Back when it was time to release their 3rd album, as soon as compositions started the lead bassist Ricardo Segall leaves the band for personal reasons and the search for a new member began... Ricardo Piccoli filled in the emptiness left by Segall and as a great friend and excellent professional quickly joined the "family". But those were difficult years for the band. Family losses and personal matters came in the way for quite a while...



Today the band is going through a more mature moment. They've released their 3rd album - HIGHBREED in 2007, recorded, produced, mixed and mastered by former bassist Ricardo Piccoli. After the release, Ricardo got married and had to leave the bands hometown. So the quest looking for another memeber had to start all over again. Rey Araújo (former Endless member), replaced Ricardo for quite some time but before anything could be released he also had to leave in order to take care of his new family.

 

Even though having no bass player at the moment but still struggling to find Lable, HIGHBREED is finally listened by MASQUE RECORDS. It was an imediate decision to sign up with the band. Pressings started and finally the band was now being able to travel all over the world. It was finally being ditributed to several countries via many known Catalogs, including MUSEA and BASIN.

 

SCARS SOULS has a new bass player again... Talented musician Marcelo "Mockba" Dantas arrives and is not only busy working on the old material but he is also catching up on all the new songs.

 

We're on December, 2009 now... The new album, the 4th release is being annouced as the bands final album. After 18 years on the "road", SCARS SOULS is recording the album that will mark the bands last recording... For health reasons, the main composer of the band, guitarist ROGÉRIO SEGALL will have to stop playing guitar due to a serious injury to his left hand. But before stopping he had time to rush into studio and record all the songs to be featured on the album. All guitars are ready and now production phase to his recordings have started. As soon as we have more news, they'll be posted here so stay tuned! There is still one more chapter to be written... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scars+Souls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.