Two years after the independent release of the self titled promo that tested the waters, acquiring great reviews and a lot of interest in the process, Scar Of The Sun finally finished composing the material for their first full length album.

After an amicable departure of co-founder member Stamos K (guitars, synths, also Mencéa), Scar Of The Sun welcomed bassist Panagiotis and guitarists Alexi and Chris. They joined existing members Achilleas and Terry to complete the ideal line up for the recording sessions that started in October ’07.

With Stamos K taking over the engineering duties, Scar Of The Sun contacted and stirred the interest of high-profile producer Rhys Fulber ( Paradise Lost, Fear Factory, Waltari, Motley Crue, Megadeth, Machine Head, Mudvayne, Roadrunner All-stars, Nailbomb, P.O.D., Alice Cooper, Yes, Avril Lavigne, Front Line Assembly, Delerium, Conjure One, Sarah Brightman, etc ) succeeding in securing his collaboration in co-producing and mixing the album.

The album is entitled ‘A Series Of Unfortunate Concurrencies’ and it contains 10 tracks spanning approximately 56 minutes of music. The whole production process (recordings, mixing and mastering) took overall 11 months to be completed. The album took its final form in the beginning of September ’08.

Apart from Rhys Fulber, the band also had the honour of collaborating with Greg Reely (Paradise Lost, Strapping Young Lad, Theatre Of Tragedy, Fear Factory, Machine Head, The Tea Party, Coldplay, Frontline Assembly, Delerium, Conjure One, Sarah McLachlan, Mediaeval Baebes, etc.), who took over the mastering process of the album. Together they created an outstanding result, samples of which are now uploaded on this page.

The sound of the album is multi-dimensional, blending many elements and influences; from gothic and doom atmospheres to modern electronic samples, from symphonic arrangements to Swedish sound, with a touch of progressive structures and lots of heaviness and drama, all funnelled through Scar Of The Sun’s musical concept.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scar+Of+The+Sun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.