There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Scarecrow was a classic old-school post-punk/goth in the Siouxsie vein, New York City's Scarecrow highlighted Beth Balousek's icy, menacing female vocals, wed to tribal drums and spiky, swirling guitar and bass interludes.

Forming at the end of 1983, the quartet known as Scarecrow could legitimately claim to be New York City's very first gothic band, just ahead of Of a Mesh, and they were a huge influence on later local bands in the same style such as The Naked and the Dead and The Ochrana.

A stellar three-song demo appeared early in 1984, led by macabre maternal waltz "Mother's Crawling" and its ornate bassline. "Blood in My Dreams" found the band in a haunting dialogue with the deam state, laden with sonic shadows, while on "Concrete Is My Pillow," a creeping catacomb guitar riff led our heroine Balousek in search of her "fleshless lover."

After several exceptional CBGB gigs in early '84, followed by a notorious writeup in the fanzine Ephemeral Youth, Scarecrow split up. 

Additional live Scarecrow material can be downloaded from their Soundclick page

2) A Finnish Horror Punk (or, "Fucking Raw Horror Punkrock Shit" as they themselves describe their music) of the same name also exists; they released their debut CD "Deadcrow" in 2006. www.scarecrow.rocks.it. 

3) ＳＣＡＲＥＣＲＯＷ is also a Japanese band consisting of Michihiro Kuroda (vocals) and Kenichi Ito (guitar), former members of the band Iceman, along with Masunori Ishibashi (bass) and Hideki Mizue (drums).  Their first single "Steal Your Misery" has been released on April 18th, 2007, and their live shows have already been selling out before the release of this single.  They have completed two studio alums and are releasing the DVD of their latest tour in April 2010.

Official Homepage: http://www.scarecrownet.com

4) There is also a german Darkwave/EBM act with this name.

5) Scarecrow is a transatlantic hard-rock band.

6) Late 1980s black metal band from Poland.

7) There is also a pop/rock band named Scarecrow, founded in The Netherlands around 1993. The lineup consists of : Martien – bass, Johan – drums, Mark – keys, vocals, Leo – guitar, vocals. Their songs are written by Leo, Mark and Scarecrow.

8) An Austrian metal band that later changed their name to Scarecrow NWA


9) A German thrash metal band. They released one full lenght album in 1988 called "Condemned to be Doomed". After releasing two more singles they disbanded.

10) A heavy metal band from Bangladesh. They released one full length album in 2006 called "Oparthiv" and three singles in different collaborations. 

11) A blues hip hop band from Toulouse, France, often called Scarecrow Blues Hip Hop

12) Scarecrow, a new Raleigh, NC hardcore punk band. Scarecrow's brand of mängel-influenced hardcore is full of catchy, relentess riffing and groovy, pounding drums, which evidences their love for classic Swedish bands like Totalitär and Anti-Cimex. This raw, blown-out straight-to-4-track recording is toppled by clear and commanding vocals.

https://bunkerpunks.bandcamp.com/album/demo <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scarecrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.