BIOGRAPHY OF SCENE OF DECAY

At some point in the early 21st century (2002) Magnus Lindell had the idea of starting a band, this was back when he was a kid and still was a beginner when it came to playing drums. He teamed up with Anders Riis that attended the same school as Magnus. Magnus and Anders then asked David Påhlman also in the same class to join as a guitar player. Anders had been playing bass for sometime and David had been playing guitar since a few years back. At this point it wasn’t decided what style of music that was to be played. The enthusiastic kids started rehearsing and fooling around at Magnus home. David wrote the riffs and Magnus came up with suitable drum parts. David also had to take the position as a vocalist since it was not a desirable position but some one had to do it. Today a lot is different. David and Magnus remains as founding members of the band.

Davids and Magnus interest for more aggressive and heavy music increased and inspired by various bands and skilled guitar players the band decided to recruit a second guitarist. David asked Christofer Cederberg since they were in the same guitar ensemble for kids taking guitar lessons. Chrisofer agreed after grabbing a pizza with the rest of the band. At the pizzeria Anders managed to spill out 1, 5 litres of coke all over David. Before asking Christofer to join, the band had taken the name Dark Distortion which they went by for a few years. Before that they had called them selves Hate Rage (they were only children back then) which they didn’t find as cool anymore since they had gowned up a bit. Quite a bit actually. But then they grew up even more and in January 2007 the band claimed the name Scene Of Decay.

But let’s not get ahead of our selves. Anders was after some time replaced because of different reasons, for instance he was often working when the other guys wanted to rehearse. A new bass player was found in Emil Lokgård, also a guitarist in the ensemble. A year went by with a few non important gigs and in the autumn of 2005 Emil began to complain about the music that David wrote. Emil explained that he was not at ease. Emil had to leave the band at the same time as Viktor Olsson joined to play the keyboards. Viktor was from a nearby society named Mora and had recently begun to attend the high school in Leksand.

For a 2nd time Dark Distortion ( Scene Of Decay) was in need of a new bass player. After agreeing with the others David asked his childhood friend Joel Fällbom who also was a guitarist, if he could fill the spot. Joel was positive and the bands line-up was once again complete. One year went by and the recordings of 3 songs were made. No major gigs of great importance were played. The name was changed into Scene Of Decay in the beginning of January 2007. The reasons are quite obvious: Other things (even bands) were named Dark Distortion, they all agreed on the fact that it didn’t sound too good and they had a lot of better ideas, apparently.

Bottom line is: Scene Of Decay is a pack of truly devoted musicians who really appreciate all the support that they have received from enthusiastic metal fans around the world. They hope to continue for many years. Never give in to the stupidity of mankind!

Cheers!!!

21th of January 2007

 

More to come.. ...



http://www.sceneofdecay.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scene+Of+Decay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.