There is more than 1 band by this name:

01) Schema was a Seattle/London based space and post rock band featuring members of Stereolab and Hovercraft. They released one self titled EP on September 19th, 2000. The band was disbanded when Mary Hansen, the leader of Schema and guitarist for Stereolab, was killed by a bus in London on December 9th, 2002.

02) Schema was a 4 piece emocore band based in Leicestershire England in 1993-1996.
The Band Composed of Mo Gulamhusein - Drums, Phil Welding - Guitar, Sam Garner - Bass, Davey Grace - Vocals.
Schema Gigged for 3 years in the UK and then Changed Bassists.
Richard Nichols joined to play bass and Simon Greenie joined for just over a year playing second guitar.
Schema released a discography CD entitled Sooner than you think released on Armed with Anger Records.
There is also a rare 7'' on Subjugation records containing 2 songs,
Double sun, Dark hills and Penny Dreadfull.
Schema also contributed to the compilation LP "A means to an end" also released on Armed with Anger Records.
Go Visit Schemas myspace
www.myspace.com/schemauk

03) Schema is a Dubstep/Breakbeat /Drum & Bass act from Jersey in the Channel Islands...
www.myspace.com/schemasound

04) Schema is a Doom Metal band from Warsaw, Poland.
Schema is doom, longing and oneiric landscapes. Schema is the music of the end.
Schema begins where the end comes: twilight thickens into darkness, reality fades into dream, memory is blurred into unclear images, and places once familiar breathe strangeness. In our music, the raw heaviness turns into moments of reflection, and the slow, measured rhythm often breaks out with a motor spurt. The whole is completed with moving melodies and singing oscillating between roaring and meditation.
For the present form of this world is passing away. (παράγει γὰρ τὸ σχῆμα τοῦ κόσμου τούτου = paragei gar to SCHEMA tou kosmou toutou), 1 Kor 7, 31.
Schema released Miasto nierzeczywiste - EP and LP Pierwsze zauroczenie. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Schema">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.