Schizoid Lloyd is a progressive rock/metal band containing six lads from Holland with a bloodlust for the bold and the beautiful. One could describe their efforts as “incredible musical soundscapes recalling the greatest moments of Leprous, Queen and Mr. Bungle, while adding in touches of practically every other rock band imaginable - from Devin Townsend to Bon Iver to maudlin of the Well to System of a Down.” - Blood Music

The band started out in October 2007 with five members; Remo Kuhlmann (guitars, lead vocals), Ruben Kuhlmann (drums, keys, vocals), Guus van Oosterum (bass, vocals), Daan Divendal (keys) and Thom Lich (guitars, vocals). After debuting live at the final of a regional band contest (HKU popprijs), winning another one (Rob Acda Award) in April 2008, releasing their first critically acclaimed EP ‘Virus’ in April 2009 and releasing the mischievous single ‘Circus’ after winning another regional bandcontest (NH-pop live) in June 2010, the band decided they were ready for the next step and changed their line-up as it became clear that drummer Ruben Kuhlmann would eventually take over the lead vocals. A new skinsman, Boy van Ooijen, was found in January 2012 and Schizoid Lloyd became a six-piece band. Another transformation happened during the final recordings of the band’s first fulllength album in December 2013 when Silas Baldur van Bezu replaced Daan Divendal on keys. Around the same time Schizoid Lloyd was contacted by Finnish label Blood Music (Emperor, Leprous, Strapping Young Lad), whose curiosity after listening to ‘Virus’ led them to inform about the upcoming album. After listening to the new material a few months later, Blood Music enthusiastically offered the band a record deal, which was signed in April 2014.

The debut album “The Last Note In God’s Magnum Opus” will be released on November 4th and is mixed by Andre Alvinzi and mastered by Jens Bogren at the Swedish Fascination Street Studios (Opeth, Katatonia, Soilwork). Schizoid Lloyd has played live alongside acts as Freak Kitchen [SWE], Amplifier [UK], Bumblefoot [USA], Ali B [NL], Long Distance Calling [GER], toured in Norway and Germany, and were considered one of the surprising highlights of Progpower Europe 2011. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Schizoid+Lloyd">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.