After some years of growing as a musician, Niels Desmedt founded Schmetterlinck. Because Niels liked the German word for butterfly(Schmetterling) that much, it became the name of his band. One of the starting ideas was to make only lyrics in Dutch and the Flemish dialect from the Western of Flandres, this because too many bands write songs in the English language. Schmetterlinck is supposed to take you away on a journey throughout the Flemish culture and history.

After some months of searching, the first line-up was formed. The first rehearsal, which can be seen as the birthday of Schmetterlinck, took place on 11th July 2009. And of course, the first song we have learned to play was 1302, which is still one of our favourites. The only members from the original line-up who are still in the band are Mathias Wenes(vocals), Thomas Dejaegere(drums) and Niels Desmedt(guitar). Danny Libert(guitar) and Tim Heyrinck(bass) left the band due to lack of time. After months of rehearsing with only one guitar, drums and vocals, the second guitarist was finally found in the person of Bart Maes. Unfortunately, we didn't have a bass guitarist at that time.

The 7th of April 2009, the first demo was recorded in our headquarters. For that demo, three songs were recorded: Terugkeer Van De Vlaamse Leeuw, Godverdomse Zatlap and 1302. Despite our lack of recording experience and the fact that our rehearsal room wasn't the perfect place for a recording, recording man Piet Martens did a good job.

The 9th of May, we had our first gig. This gig was organised for the birthday of a fellow named Tuur Herman and took place in Den Ast in Heule, Niels' favourite drinking place. The gig was a good experience and was certaintly not our last...

We struggled through several bass guitarists who couldn't put in the effort a band requires due to lack of time. But then finally we got lucky and found a great new bass guitarist. Bram Villez joins our team blows a steady bass in a new Schmetterlinck era. We are finally complete.

  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Schmetterlinck">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.