Schmorf began to take form in the summer of 2006, and after lots of bad ideas the worst came to by naming the band with an abbreviation, without thinking about what it was shortened of... Playing some songs by System of a Down, Yup and a few others, the fellas had one thing in common: a very twisted sense of humor. Things started to brew and now the world is in for something it is not ready for. But not to worry, neither is the band...

In the beginning of time, Schmorf was a drummer and a keyboard player. Some enthusiasm was shown from a few guitar players also. A bass artist followed soon after. After some cover-playing and several guest guitarists, a man emerged from outta town, named mysteriously Joonas, this unusual stranger joined the band. The focus turned quickly towards own songs, but just for two shakes of a lambs tail.

Then the usual 'fucking around'-mode went back on. After some searching another guitar hero materialized from the night, and this creature of the dark had a name too, Eetu. Still we had a very vocal problem. Some attempts were to find a singer from within, but they all went south. Surprise, surprise...

But the 'The Big Emptiness' was not done with us yet! From it's very bowels it spewed out a disgusting being dubbed Antti. He opened his mouth and made nature shiver, so - of course - we had a deal. The bad news were we had to pay up to 'The Major Hole', so it took the keyboard player from us. We parted our ways sadly, but understanding the grand scheme of things.

The army was now complete, so things got more twisted right from the get-go. We dumped 90% of the covers and started to make our own songs. We staggered through our first recordings, and prepared to take on the burden of ruling the known and unknown universe. The bass pounder changed, the whole collective is more organized and things were looking peachy very a lot!

Bubbling and brewing was to be heard from the slimy bowels of the Church of the Unholy, as Schmorf was finalizing the masterpiece called 'Set List from Heck, of the Darned', which meant the one thing that the grey mass known as 'people', 'herd', 'cattle', was afraid of. The first gig had been announced. There goes the universe.

There was a tornado of 4, count them, four gigs to be played at an awesome pace of almost a gig a month. The fatigue set in. In the middle of this ballyhoo, the Big Emptiness saw an opportunity to strike again. After a fierce battle, one of the bravest warriors, Eetu, was gone. schmorf retreated to the Church of the Unholy to lick it's wounds, and all of a sudden, there was a voice: 'Reinforcements have arrived'! From the clearing smoke a figure emerged. Strapped with a guitar and a shirt that so proudly proclaimed 'Teloitettu'. Janne is in the Church, all the kids go shhh! They'd better, or this chap will come and piss in your fireplace!

In the midst of this, the second studio sessions brought forth an even better, more focused and crisp schmorf. In between gigs the band finalized the recordings of 5 songs, and this was to become Metaschmorfosis EP. The birth of this record involved a little more instruments to be learned, but the overall sound got even fatter and richer. First time everyone had cold chills down their spine repeatedly in the final stages of this project... There is something beautiful hitting the streets!

Now that the unlikely quintet had a Single and an Ep behind them, all the power was used to roam the countryside playing gigs. Towns were reduced to ruins, and people gathered to wonder as the five gentlemen displayed their sweet and gentle radio-friendly tunes to everyone.

In the midst of all this, the band was on an inevitable crash course with other bands in the neighborhood, and a few brewskis later, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly was born. Check that out at http://www.thegoodbadugly.net.

As the pieces of the puzzle started to align, the Big Emptiness made a comeback. This time it traded the foulmouthed and -bearded Johnny to the Five-String-Demon (tm) - Jimmy Homicide. With his mohawk and tattoos in tact, the band had - once again - fought a noble battle with the B-E.

The Church of the Unholy was burned to the ground as we left for bigger and better places to perform our aural worshipping. The Latter Day Church of the Morbid Desecration was set up, complete with studio equipment and all. As we rubbed our hairy hands together, the recording of Artificial Nomadic Audio Leverage - our first album - had started.

The universe started to tilt on its axis, virgins sighed in pleasure and everything else, too, was a-ok.

Here we stand, in the brink of destruction of everything we known and could possibly imagine - at the very moment of the release of the album. If you put your head to the ground, you'd probably start to hear the screams and sounds of mayhem hitting your streets. Tell-tale-signs of Schmorf.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Schmorf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.