Schrywoud settled its first roots on the 17th of September, 2007.
We proudly called ourselves a Folk/Black metalband and wanted to conquer the region with some crazy Flemish black metal sprinkled with some eargasmic folk influences. To be a little more specific, you could easily hear that we were very inspired by bands like Finntroll & Moonsorrow for example. 
Later on we felt the music we were writing and making has gotten quickly bored to our very own ears. It felt like our music was just 'to easy-listening' and it felt quite 'empty'... Therefore we decided to go hunt us a bassist and a second guitarist, to fill up our plate.
After a few months of hunting, we found Jason, who'd take the quest of being our bassist, and Stijn as our second guitarist.
From those moments on, we were finally able to give it all a new shape.
It felt right how we heard Stijn playing the harsh guitarsounds so Nielle could put more effort into creating some very awesome melodies and solos. Then we started to play a lot more technical. Our passion and hobby overtook most of it, and we enjoyed ourselves and had good times. This lead to some great changes to: Black became Pagan, and Folk became Epic. Also the lyrics changed from filth to heroic shit. We were certainly on our way! It felt like no one could stop us!

Unfortunately by spring 2008, Jason already 'kinda' left the band.
And when we played our very first songs on our very first stage, both us as the audience noticed that a band without a bassist, 'kinda felt like 'french fries with no mayonnaise... '
Therefore we started a long search but got gladly rewarded when we found our beloved bassguy 'Nick' in September 2008. After some gigs our keyboardist brought us the sad news that he'd have to leave the band. He simply didn't have any time to spare in our band.
And this time there was no long hunting season in search of a keyboardist, 'cause very fast we've found ourselves a female keyboardist, 'Elisa' !

In 2009 many doors were opened for Schrywoud. Many people served us a lot of gigs to play with, which granted us a lot of experience. Finally, full-membered as we were, we climbed every stage available and terrorized every human who's brave enough with our sound of 'Pure Epic Pagan Frost Of Schrywoud' . Our very first record was going to finally get released after summer and we continued our journey...

The day of our self-recorded demo eventually became the 25th of September.
The responses didn't lie at all : 'Schrywoud is a band with great potential!'
But then , as always, destiny couldn't resist giving us another band-struggle and so 'Tabbe' left us.
It took us a few months until we found ourselves a female singer 'Maaike'. But then again, good things didn't last long and our bassist, Nick, had to leave us.

http://webs.hogent.be/schrywoud
http://www.myspace.com/schrywoud <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/schrywoud">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.