SCHWARZ & FUNK is a House & Lounge sound project created by the german producers Bob Schwarz and Jesse Funk in 2001. Inspired by the Balearic House vibes of Ibiza, Bob and Jesse created their own sound of House, Lounge, Chillout and Ambient tunes. By now SCHWARZ & FUNK proved to be a long-time project, very successful and loved by music enthusiasts all over the planet.

Being professional and passionate musicians themselves, they frequently work together with other outstanding musicians and singers. As a consequence SCHWARZ & FUNK stands for sophisticated House and Downbeat at its best.

At the latest from their first release on Café del Mar Vol. 14 in 2007, SCHWARZ & FUNK is recognised as one hot act in House and Lounge music. Many releases followed and the remixes of SCHWARZ & FUNK gained a lot of attention in the House music scene. And the best is yet to come…

Bob Schwarz and Jesse Funk have known each other since they worked at a local radio station in Augsburg / Germany in the early 90ies. Bob was employed there as an audio engineer and Jesse was a member of the editorial staff.

After that period they lost contact for a while. Bob established a small recording studio of his own and his job as a professional musician kept him busy as well.

Jesse ran his own club for several years and already did a lot of djing. Between ‘95 and ‘97, Jesse was touring Ibiza (El Divino/ Privilege/etc.). At this time he finally decided to start his own music productions. Bursting with many innovative ideas, he was looking for the right partner to realise them.

He contacted his old friend Bob and this match proved to be perfect. Bob and Jesse established the joint boxberg studios and a creative cooperation began. First they started experimenting with different music styles but soon they focused on House and Chillout music. They created their own individual sound and so SCHWARZ & FUNK was born.

Bob and Jesse always enjoy playing most parts of their music themselves. "We love to work with audio files and instruments, and we're bored by quantized midi. " Being professional musicians themselves, they naturally came to know many excellent musicians they love to work with. Joe T. Aykut, a good friend and exceptional guitarist, can be regarded as their biggest asset. His spectacular solo performance is one key component of SCHWARZ & FUNK. Little wonder that big stars like J.C.A., Barbara Tucker, The Gipsy Kings and even the Bee Gees are keen to employ him as well.

During the recent years the musical output of Bob and Jesse has raised up to over 200 tracks, released on House and Lounge compilations worldwide. Their composing work even includes commercial tracks for Alfa Romeo, Lufthansa, Tui, Volkswagen, Orange, Pilates, Brita and more.

"We will continue to produce, remix and play music...we just have to do it!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Schwarz+&+Funk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.