Enter the realm of the Red Death...

Scorched-Earth had its origins in the one-man band project Nazgul, founded by Terry McCorriston in 1994. After one demo, "Under Blood Red Eyes", the band's name was re-christened "Scorched-Earth" in 1995 and McCorriston set out to form a full band to fully express S-E's Metal Of Extermination. After several line-up changes, their first CD "Thy Kingdom Crushed" was recorded in 1999 with the line-up of Terry on guitar and vocals, Scott Sanders on drums, Mike Kapsiak on guitar and Sanford Johnson on bass. Released in early 2000, it met with favor in the underground and is now sold out. Drawing from the cult thrash feel as well as modern Death Metal influences, "Thy Kingdom Crushed" stood alone in its uniqueness and ruthlessness. 

After going through some lineup changes, the band recorded and released "Gods, Kings, and Conquerors" in 2003. This time out they were a three piece, with new drummer Joshua Hanenburg stepping into the fold. "Gods, Kings, and Conquerors" was even more vicious than the previous CD, and fans received it like rabid wolves. Ted Cohn was then recruited to join in on guitar, and the band played many shows in the US and Canada in support of this album. "Gods, Kings & Conquerors", like its predecessor, is now sold out. 

Scorched-Earth then set to work on their next album, "Devils In Iron". Recorded in April 2005, it had been suspended in Limbo for various reasons until March of 2007, when Conqueror Wyrm Records stepped up and unleashed the release. This album was the band's most ruthless they'd put out by then, successfully merging their warlike Thrash with the iron hand of Doom. "Devils In Iron" met with acclaim, even making two of Metal Maniacs' writers' lists for "best of 2007" (Ryan Bartek & Nathan T. Birk). The band again set out on annihilating the Western US and Canada in their quest to present themselves as an utterly ruthless live act. 

Now. 2010: The Year We Make Combat. The year that ushers in the creation of "Mars", the 4th and most epic album Scorched-Earth has yet unveiled. First released on cassette version by the tape-only label NoVisible Scars, "Mars" contains nine warhymns that tell a tale of two planets: One that would conquer the other in religious fanaticism and the other that welcomes it to drown them in their own blood. "Mars" is the latest chapter in the band's unrelenting blackened Thrash assault, and is an absolute worthy effort of the gods themselves. 

Scorched-Earth has already set in motion several live assaults along the West Coast to herald the coming of "Mars". More are to come, leaving no blade of grass in their wake. The band have shared the stage and toured with many US and International acts over their long existence and have a virulent following in their native Pacific Northwest and beyond. The warlords of "Mars" have arrived, and the world will fall to the spearhead from space.... 

Terry McCorriston - Vocals/Rhythm & Lead Guitars
Ted Cohn - Lead & Rhythm Guitars
Sanford Johnson - Bass
Josh Hanenburg - Drums


www.hailscorchedearth.com
www.myspace.com/hailscorchedearth

E-mail Contact: 
hailscorchedearth@yahoo.com 

Postal Contact: 
Scorched-Earth 
PO Box 16006 
Seattle, WA 98116 USA 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scorched-Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.