There have been several artists sharing the name Scorched Earth: 

1) The Seattle based Scorched-Earth had its origins in the one-man band project Nazgul, founded by Terry McCorriston in 1994. After one demo, "Under Blood Red Eyes", the band's name was re-christened "Scorched-Earth" in 1995 and McCorriston set out to form a full band to fully express S-E's Metal Of Extermination. After several line-up changes, their first CD "Thy Kingdom Crushed" was recorded in 1999 with the line-up of Terry on guitar and vocals, Scott Sanders on drums, Mike Kapsiak on guitar and Sanford Johnson on bass. Released in early 2000, it met with favor in the underground and is now sold out. Drawing from the cult thrash feel as well as modern Death Metal influences, "Thy Kingdom Crushed" stood alone in its uniqueness and ruthlessness.

After going through some lineup changes, the band recorded and released "Gods, Kings, and Conquerors" in 2003. This time out they were a three piece, with new drummer Joshua Hanenburg stepping into the fold. "Gods, Kings, and Conquerors" was even more vicious than the previous CD, and fans received it like rabid wolves. Scorched-Earth then played many shows in the US and Canada in support of this album, alongside the likes of Impaled, Exhumed, Dragonlord, Nevermore, Severed Savior, Anal Blast, Dreams Of Damnation, Serpens Aeon, and Drawn and Quartered. Ted Cohn was then recruited to join in on guitar, and the band set out on desecrating the West Coast on the Swarm of Eternal Blackness tour with Kult Ov Azazel, Teratism, and Sumeria.

Scorched Earth broke up in 2013. Their final lineup was as follows:

Sandy Johnson Bass
Joshua Hannenburg Drums
Matt Fields Guitars
Terry McCorriston Vocals, Guitars 

2) Chris Bowden: saxes, keys, string arrangements.
Mike Gates: acoustic + electric guitars, vocals.
Simon Smith: double bass
Andy Wheeler: drums, percussion.

A unique blend of acoustic rock/jazz/downtempo/melancholy/powerful
beautiful moving compelling music.

3) A '70s band featuring Billy Ocean who released only one single, "On the Run".

4) An NWOBHM band from Birmingham who recorded one 12", 'Tomorrow Never Comes', and a BBC Friday Rock Show session. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scorched+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.