Scotoma

1992:
Low D. and Chris Michlis formed the band, being called originally Marathon. That changed soon though due to another band synonymy.

1993-1994:
Deano J. Symeonides joined forces as a lead and rhythm guitar player. From the beginning we have always played original songs. We were simply not interested in being just another cover band.
We also recorded a 7 song demo tape ("Scotoma").

1995-1996:
We recorded another two demo tapes ("Outside the slaughter house","Realife") and gave live shows that people still remember about them. Despite our young age we manage to turn some heads.

1997-1998:
We 've released our first CD single ("Desert Fish") in 1997, including "Realife" demo tape as a bonus. By then our sound was really weird for some, but we were keep evolving.
Sadly though (in 1998), co-founder drummer left the band to form Defacer (a well known live act with a more thrash-focus sound). We have tried to find a replacement at that time, but the facts showed us that we couldn't continue this thing going on. It was time to move forward in general than stay foot.

1999-2002:
At this time around, Scotoma members didn't stayed inactive at all. We created and played in several projects with friends or solo material etc. In our private lives also we have moved forward in many ways (well, at least we hope we did), and in so many and different things. So we had to give it a rest for a while and wait to see what the future would bring.

2003-2004:
In late 2003 we decided to give it another shot. We picked up the band, not where we had left it, but at a place much higher in the metal scene.
With a new drummer on board (Andreas), we recorded some old tracks on a promo CD ("I want to fly") so we could start from somewhere and make the reunion a reality.

2005-2006:
After a year though, we left without a guitar player and got two young musicians (Gabriel on guitars and Christy ..s) to help us out with some new tracks. During summer/autumn we‘ve entered the studio and started the recordings and production of our upcoming CD (“Killing the machine”).

2007-2008:
We 've released the long awaited Scotoma new tracks on an EP format, that has sold twice as much as we ever did before!
This gave us strength to finally realize we have to put out a full length so we can make a real mark with our noise. We are currently working on it, looking for musicians to corporate and a label to push this out.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scotoma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.