Born in the grimy urban butthole of Kettering, Northamptonshire, in 1999, The Scurge arrived fully-formed and fucking furious; a bug-eyed, belligerent four-man screech into the cavernous abyss of everyday drudgery. With a fistful of scabrous sludge rock riffs and the bowel-rattling low-end rumble of an inner city earthquake, all topped with an anguished, serial killer howl that succinctly expressed the boredom and rage of booze-addled, speed-driven frustration, the band vocalist Cliff Lambert, guitarist Nathan Dix, bassist Toby Hall and drummer Dave Thompson - were instantly hailed as one of the UK metal scenes brightest, black-hearted hopes. Extensive touring with the likes of Raging Speedhorn, Napalm Death, Kittie, Stampin Ground and The Wildhearts spread The Scurge disease across the UK and beyond, while early recordings like the Kerrang!-approved Devil In Miss Jones and a vicious split EP with fellow Kettering residents Defenestration confirmed that the band could cut it in the studio too.

In 2003 the band recruited ex-Charger man Jez on second guitar duties, a move which led to The Scurge experience becoming even more terrifying and exhilarating. An 8-track mini-album was recorded soon after; a mighty behemoth of cacophonous rage that would probably have revolutionized rocknroll as we know it, had some berk not lost the master tapes. In 2004 another recording was made the destructive Cat With The 45 Calibre Claw that led to airplay on Radio 1's Rock Show and more frenzied gig action in the UK, Ireland and Malta.

Jez quit the band late in 2004 and was replaced by Jay Thompson, brother of drummer Dave and a current member of Raging Speedhorn. The new line-up is the mightiest and most malicious incarnation of the band yet. Reports suggest that the world is already shitting its collective pants at the prospect of another ear-raping sonic onslaught, as the five-headed hate machine approach the end of work on their new mini-album; a vile and adrenalin-sodden eruption of down-tuned groove-heavy mayhem, due for release later in 2006, that will confirm the extent of the bands evolution while gleefully maintaining the high standards of malevolent excellence set thus far.

Never underestimate the underdogs or you might get bitten on the arse. Prepare yourselves, rock scum... Im Fashion, You're Victim are ready to roll! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scurge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.