1) Scythian - Celtic/World/Folk - Washington, DC - US
2) Scythian - Death Metal - London, UK
3) Scythian - Black Metal -  Perth, Western Australia

1) Washington DC's, Scythian (sith-ee-yin), belts out a high-energy, adrenaline-peddling, interactive brand of music with one goal in mind; to get people on their feet and dancing. These classically trained musicians are natural showmen who seamlessly blend kicked-up Celtic, folk and world music, and deliver it with a punk-rock sensibility. Combine this with the driving rhythm of a jazz percussionist, and you've got the ingredients for a show you won't soon forget. In a single song, they transport an audience across the globe with the alluring and dramatic strains of gypsy fiddles, the bounce of a Celtic reel, and then cross back over the border to pick up a klezmer hook and some good old-fashioned bluegrass licks.

2) Scythian are a blackened death metal band from London, UK heavily influenced by Bathory, Sodom, Sarcofago, Venom and early extreme metal of the 80s and 90s. They’re an upcoming, newly signed act and recorded their debut album ‘To Those Who Stand Against Us’ in early 2008 with producer Leon Macey (also of UK death metallers MITHRAS) then inking a deal with Greek label, Necroterror in the same year. Although compliant with heavy metal tradition, Scythian are isolated from the trend and pursue a musical path that fuses all everything from thrash, black death and doom with archaic atmospheres, pagan ideals and warrior culture. Not for the weak hearted.

3) Black metal band from Perth, Western Australia reminscent to the sounds of old Mayhem, Emperor and Darkthrone, combined with the occasional influences of death metal, thrash metal and doom metal. The band was active between the years of 1996 - 2001, under various names prior to 1998, such as; Aetharius, etc. Scythian (AU) released one EP, which was freely handed out at a local metal gig entitled ‘Scythe Domination’. They managed to play four locals gigs before their split in 2001. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Scythian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.