There are 4 bands called Sea of Trees: an indie rock band, a screamo band from Iowa, atmospheric black metal band from the Netherlands and a 2 man project from USA.

1. The Sea of Trees from the Netherlands creates atmospheric black metal since 2008. The actual Sea of Trees is a forest in Japan called Aokigahara, which is the second most popular place in the world to commit suicide. It is also known as the Suicide Forest. Their first release, an EP entitled "Aokigahara", was a concept release about this forest, and was released on Misanthropic Art Productions. The band shares members with White Oak, 1774, Willoos and several other bands. Website: http://seaoftrees.genootschap.org/

2. Albany, N.Y. – Over the last year, the members of Albany-based Sea of Trees have been busy cultivating their own brand of indie-rock music. After the release of a demo last year and many performances throughout New York, Sea of Trees is now preparing for the release of their first full-length album, Animal Sounds, on February 16.

Taking nearly six months to complete and recorded in the hot attic of a restaurant in Albany, Animal Sounds is a carefully-crafted album. Band members Dylan Palazzo (guitar, vocals), Cecelia Martinez (vocals, percussion), Justin Engineri (guitar), Mitch Masterson (bass) and Ian White (drums) came together with the goal of creating something that was consistent both musically and emotionally.

"We didn't want to fall into the trap of just throwing all of our songs together and calling it an album," said Martinez. "We had to cut some songs, which was a hard, and we also wrote new material specifically for the album."

Produced, recorded, and mixed independently with Masterson at the helm, members of Sea of Trees have been on the front lines for every step in the album process.

"I had never really done a project of this magnitude before," said Masterson. "It was so much more involved that I imagined, but I'm glad to know that I had a say in every little piece of this album."

They also each have an important role in the songwriting of the band.

"It's evolving into a more organic, natural process," said Palazzo. "I think the strengthening relationship between the band members, both personally and musically, is the biggest contributing factor to our songwriting."

The music of Sea of Trees skirts the lines of many different genres. Palazzo describes it as "manic and moody. High-peaking dynamics laced with gentle melodies. We are striving to invoke chills down the spines of our audience." The band has been described as both a "prog-rock extravaganza" and "a mellow, indie-folk rock group with some gorgeous male-female vocal parts – and bells" by members of the Albany music community.

Band members credit their growing confidence and tight-knit relationship for their live performances that have been described as having a "dynamic, visceral energy."

"We love playing together, and when you get us up in front of a crowd, we can really feed off that energy," Palazzo said. "It feels real."

 Animal Sounds was mastered by Carl Saff in Chicago Ill., who came highly recommended by fellow Albany musician Ashley Pond. The album features guest musicians Laura Corozza and Craig von Dutra of prog-rock band Aficionado on flute, trumpet, and melodica, as well as Jeanne Lowe on cello.

 Animal Sounds will be available on iTunes, AmazonMP3, Rhapsody, eMusic and Amie Street on February 16 with a CD release in April.

3. Sea of Trees is a project masterminded by Brandon McKagan who was later joined by vocalist Ryan Strain to complete work on his musical vision. Their self-titled debut album is now available at http://seaoftreesmetal.bandcamp.com/
Guitars / Drums / Bass / Mastering: Brandon McKagan
Vocals / Mastering: Ryan Strain
http://www.facebook.com/SeaOfTreesMusic

4. Sea of Trees are a San Diego-based progressive post-hardcore band that should be on your radar, if they are not already. Led by the dual-vocal interplay of Sasha Gordy and Aldrynne Eslava, this group’s dynamic sound recalls everything from contemporary genre stars Dance Gavin Dance, to classic touchstones such as The Used.
https://seaoftreestheband.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sea+of+Trees">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.