There are multiple artists that have used this name:

1) Sea Legs are an indie rock three-piece from Sydney, Australia. Three lifelong mates (Byron Knight - Vocals, Guitar; Cail Borg - Bass, Vocals & Josh Osborne - Drums, Samples) formed after the breakup of indie-rock band Modern Joy, hibernating in their home studio for months on end writing and recording music, available for listen at:
http://www.triplejunearthed.com/Artists/View.aspx?artistid=42654
http://www.facebook.com/sealegsband
http://www.myspace.com/sea-legs


2)  In 2003, singer-songwriter John Dupree originally from Huntsville, AL, and Michael Faircloth from Virginia Beach, VA released an album as The Push titled "Tower Made of Cards" on Smug Records of Nashville, with fellow MTSU alum Matt Rowland (The Living Things, Ghostfinger) and Andy Vincent (Spooky Johnson, Lo-fi). The album was recorded at various Nashville and MTSU studios and included Faircloth on upright bass, Rowland ..boards and Vincent on drums.
Sea Legs formed from the ashes of The Push, when Dupree and Faircloth began playing and recording together in Brooklyn, NY in late 2004, working up demos and playing various New York City venues as Jack Neatus and Sea Legs.

Sea Legs has now finished up the final weeks of recording for its debut 12 song LP and are spending the next few months mixing and mastering the record. All instruments are played by John and Michael with the exception of Austin musicians, Phil Davidson on violin, cellist Dylan Rieck, and Burton Lee on pedal steel. The album features singer Lacy Woods, a friend of Sea Legs from Virginia, who lends her lovely vocals on a number of songs.

The duo transformed into a full band in February with JoBeth Cox on bass and vocals(formerly in Southern Drama), and Steve Bidwell and Chris Patin (of The Calm Blue Sea) on drums and guitar respectively. Sea Legs released their new album "Ghost of Alabama" on Nov. 5, 2008 and plan to tour in 2009.


3)  “In our zany postmodern era, genres are easily rendered relative and fluxual. “Stoner Metal” has been used to refer to everything from dude-centric bar rock with distortion to 20 minute instrumental drones. Sea Legs, however, has put its musical foot down in this ebb and flow of art and language and reinforced the original intent and meaning of stoner metal: music that is appealing to people who listen to and/or play metal while incredibly high. To this end, these CT locals, including members of hardcore behemoth They and The Children, put the heavy back in metal while playing at a plodding pace which can kill no buzz, only brain cells.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sea+Legs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.