Sear Bliss is a Melodic Black Metal band formed by András Nagy in the autumn of 1993, in Hungary. They are described as a Melodic structures a touch of Atmospheric-based monotones and Carpathian-influenced sound. What separates them between the traditional Hungarian bands is; they strive for a Melodic sound and less appeal to Rawness. The band tries to create an outright original music based on dark elements combined with deep visions presented with sheer brutality - and all enveloped in the softening sound of a trombone, barytone and trumpet and a synthesizer. Lyrically it is a ride in the afterworld and to places where the human body can not enter only the most seeking soul and persistent spirit. The band's first demo, entitled "The Pagan Winter", was released in April 1995. This four-track tape introduced the band to the underground scene and received great responses from all over the world. This demo resulted in their recording contract with Mascot/Two Moons Records and their debut album, entitled "Phantoms", was released in August 1996. "Phantoms" was the first black metal album to be elected "CD of the Month" in Dutch leader metal magazine Aardschok. Also in many other magazines and fanzines all over the world their debut album got great reviews. Early 1997 the band toured Europe supporting Tsatthogua and Marduk. The tour was a great success for the band. Just before the tour Two Moons released the four songs from "The Pagan Winter" demo plus a new 12 minutes long epic song entitled "In the Shadow of Another World" on a mini CD. In August 1997 the band travelled to Holland to record their new album, entitled "The Haunting", in the Beaufort Studio. Most of the material was recorded "live" as the band played together in the studio which gives an extra boost of power and atmosphere to their music. One of the most remarkable things about the album is the fact that the band came up with very strong songs and melodies yet also a lot of variety in spheres. "The Haunting" contains 7 masterpieces of dark and atmospheric yet brutal and melodic metal. 

After these first three albums Sear Bliss released the magnificent 'Grand Destiny' in 2001, in 2002 the 'Forsaken Symphony' album and in 2004 the brilliant 'Glory And Perdition' album, all on the American label Red Stream. 

The Sear Bliss albums 'Phantoms', 'The Pagan Winter + In the Shadow of Another World' and 'The Haunting' will all be re-released by Vic Records fall 2005 and winter 2005/2006. 

http://www.searbliss.hu <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sear+Bliss">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.