Sebo K has long been a key figure in Berlin’s music community, starting his DJ career in the early 90s at Alec Empire’s Bass Terror nights, Berlin’s first UK-style breakbeat parties. By the mid 90s he had discovered his love for Chicago house and Detroit techno—a passion evident to anyone who has heard the vintage depths many of his tracks nod to—and at the turn of the decade began playing regularly at legendary clubs throughout Berlin. Now, thanks to his releases on the mobilee label, he’s becoming an unstoppable force in the electronic music scene. One of his first tracks for mobilee, “Rancho Relaxo”—in collaboration with Anja Schneider—was an instant classic, establishing Sebo (as well as the label itself) as an up-and-coming act worthy of extreme attention. To declare that Sebo has lived up to expectations would be an understatement to say the least.

Despite a relatively sparse discography of original productions, quality over quantity is the name of the game for Sebo K, with each of his productions—from his debut on mobilee to his most recent track, “Diva”—receiving universal acclaim from both DJs and critics alike and cementing his position as first-rate producer. His mix CD Back Up Vol. 01 introduced audiences far and wide to his mixing abilities, effortlessly bridging the worlds of minimal techno and classic deep house with one critic proclaiming it “house that sounds perfectly at home wandering through new provinces.” Alongside his now timeless original productions, Sebo has done remixes for some of the most respected labels and artists on the planet including Poker Flat, Mule Electronic, Radioslave, and Efdemin. Meanwhile, his tracks have appeared on a nearly uncountable number of compilations and mixes by DJs such as M.A.N.D.Y., Richie Hawtin, Steve Bug, Dennis Ferrer, Loco Dice, and Dixon.

His love for soulful, deep vibes combined with his ability to transition seamlessly between minimal techno and straight house—and an uncanny ability to blur the lines between the two—has reinforced the importance of house in an age seemingly inundated by techno lovers. His residency at Berlin’s Watergate in tandem with constant gigs at high-profile venues around the world has demonstrated that Sebo’s DJ abilities are on par with his exceptional production skills, and that his seemingly endless string of successes isn’t likely to end any time soon. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sebo+K">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.