Second Coming is a grunge band from Los Angeles, CA.

Second Coming started as an industrial dance band in 1990 in Los Angeles, California. Founding members, Maxi (Jesse Holt) (vocals, guitar and keyboards) and Junkeye (Ron Holt) (bass guitar, vocals, keyboards) recruited James Bergstrom (drums) and Stamatina (keyboards) to complete the line-up. In 1992 they relocated to Seattle, Washington. Junkeye soon left the band and was replaced by bass player Johnny Bacolas and Stamatina was replaced by percussionist and keyboard player, Davis Martin (Matktub) and Mark Nelson (The Beatniks) was added on rhythm guitar.

In 1994 Second Coming released their debut CD "L.O.V.Evil" through Red Rocket Records. The album was produced by Maxi and all songs were written by Maxi except for "It's Coming After" and "So Wired" written by Junkeye, and "The Great Big Burn" written by T-Roy and Maxi. During this period Second Coming enjoyed a strong following because of their exciting live shows, great songs and because of a cameo vocal performance by Layne Staley (Alice In Chains) on the track ("It's Coming After"). Second Coming had several most-requested songs on Seattle radio station KISW, including "M.T. Your Gun," "It's Coming After," and "So Beautiful (And Everything)."

While working on songs for their second full-length album, Maxi decided to replace bass player, Johnny Bacolas and due to Johnny's close friendship with James, James Bergstrom made the decision to part from the band, too. Maxi and Mark recruited Joey Veneziani on drums, Steve Santoki on bass guitar and performed shows in San Francisco and Seattle. During this time Johnny Bacolas registered the name Second Coming under his name and in doing so, usurped the band name from Maxi.

In 1996 Johnny Bacolas and James Bergstrom joined Dudley Taft (guitar) and Travis Bracht (vocals) and named the new lineup Second Coming. The 'new' Second Coming adopted a heavier sound and in 1998 Second Coming released what they 'called' their debut CD, "Second Coming", written by Dudley Taft and Travis Bracht and co-produced by Dudley Taft. It was from this point on that the CD "L.O.V.Evil" was not only not talked about in public by the band, but songwriting credit information regarding "L.O.V.Evil" was altered to exclude Maxi's contributions to the CD and therefore from the band's formation and musical history.

The current Second Coming has toured with bands such as VAST, Candlebox, Fuel, and Monster Magnet . Travis Bracht is currently working on a project called Soulbender, with guitarist Michael Wilton of Queensrÿche and drummer Dean Castronovo of Journey and is also is currently the new rhythm guitarist for Seattle band Point Defiance. Bracht is also working on a solo effort to be released in Summer of 2008. Johnny Bacolas, James Bergstrom, and Eric Snyder have recently recorded a record with singer/songwriter/pianist Darin Isaacs titled "Here With Me Now" (myspace.com/darinisaacs), which is scheduled for release late 2007 and available on iTunes as of Oct 2007. It's not as heavy as Second Coming. Bacolas and Snyder have also began working on another project with 2 other musicians. Not much more is known about this project. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Second+Coming">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.