From the bands official Facebook page:

"2002: Secrets She Kept was formed by Necrol. The 3 track demo "Symphonies of Eternal Suffering and Damnation" was self-released the same year with Necrol playing all instruments and doing all vocals. The demo was generally well received and given great reviews in such publications as Terrorizer, Unrestrained, and BW&BK magazines. The next 2 years would be spent searching for suitable members to be...gin playing live.

2005: In early '05 Necrol began working on the full length "Requiems to Midnight, Woe". Still being the sole member, all instruments and vocals were again performed by himself. Shortly after the recording members were found. In late 2005 SSK released the "Requiems..." album through Morbid Souls Music, and with a full lineup, and began performing live.

2006 - 2008: During this time SSK performed throughout the bands home state of Florida and set out on numerous DIY tours across the US and Mexico in support of the "Requiems... " record. The band would also find itself sharing the stage with national and international acts such as Dark Funeral, Enslaved, 1349, Goatwhore, Monstrosity, Diabolic, Averse Sefira, Destruction, Ceremonial Castings, Horna, Nachtmystium, etc. During these years writing had also begun for the bands next effort "La Fin Absolue du Monde".

2009 to present: In late Febuary/early March of '09 SSK went into Hollow Studio (Abigail Williams, SWWAATS) in NY to record "La Fin Absolue du Monde". The album was recorded in 2 weeks time and would be the first release from the band that Necrol would not be performing all instruments. Performance credits being Necrol - Vocals/guitars, D. Judas - Bass, and Mike Heller (Malignancy) on drums. The album was released on Oct. 14, 2010 by Metal Messiah Records"

Current lineup:

Necrol - Guitars/Vocals
Satorn - Guitars


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Secrets+She+Kept">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.