Based in Colorado, SECTION 16 was formed in 1999 by vocalist Corey Brown, bassist Ian Ringler, and guitarist Toby Kinnaman after the fall out of Colorado Progressive Metal band Psyco Drama. The band was completed with the addition of guitarist Hercules Castro, also a former Psyco Drama member, and drummer Jeremy Hoffman of metal act Jaded Soul.

In 2002, Section 16 released their debut CD "Identity Crisis," which offers 14 tracks of melodic, aggressive heavy progressive music highlighted by the songs "Monkey Patch", "Alone", and "Live Through Me" (which was used on ABC’s Power Rangers Ninja Storm). 

Shortly after the release of "Identity Crisis", guitarist Hercules Castro decided to leave Section 16 for personal reasons and to pursue other endeavors.  This prompted the addition of guitarist Rain Zitro in the Summer of 2003.  Rain, a former Joe Satriani student, added his virtuoso guitar style to the band allowing Section 16 to forge on promoting "Identity Crisis" and begin writing new material for the next CD.

Through out 2004 -2005, Section 16 managed to write new material for the next CD between their busy performance schedule and the side projects that nearly all the members were involved in.  In 2005, Section 16 entered the studio with engineer Bill Douglass to began recording their second CD.  In late 2005, guitarist Rain Zitro was unable to continue on with the band for personal reasons.  The band took the completed songs from the recording sessions and placed them into the three song EP titled "Introspection".

Now in 2010, the band is moving forward with yet a different lineup. Terry Rogers, who fronted bands such as Theory and The Quiet Room, now is handling the lead vocal duties for Section 16. After the departure of Ian Ringler, the band looked to none other than Ian Stien of Khrinj to fill the spot. The band is moving in a very positive direction, and we look forward to productive and prosperous future!

http://www.sectionxvi.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SECTION+16">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.