There are at-least seven bands named section 8. 

1. hardcore band from upstate New York , United States. 
2. hardcore band from Ostergotaland, Sweden.
3. A hardcore band from Nevada, USA who released one demo.
4. A band from Los Angeles, California, USA, that now goes by Phathom.
5. Alternative rockers, Section 8 (later re-named Kinetic Output,)  first release, "Let's Go To Mars."
6. Techno DJ featured on the Thunderdome albums.
7. Canadian punk rock band ca 1979, only released one single.




1. hardcore band from upstate New York , United States. 

discography ;
Demo
Pain is Truth 
Nine Ways to Say I Love You

A band that formed in 1994 that has influenced a decade of amazing bands. Unfortunately they are done. Drew is now a proud father and lives in Upstate NY with his Wife. Mike continues on with on tour with The Dillinger Escape Plan as their sound guy and has moved out to Denver and loves it. Tim Parent has a new band called "Splinters of Tomorrow" that really embraces that old school sound. Kasey Dorr is very busy with his band Gunther Weezul. They just released their second CD called the "Sons of Perdition" you can buy it online as well as the first album at overitrecords.com 
There is good reason that Section 8 have achieved god like status in the Albany underground scene in a few short years. They have one of the most original and interesting sounds ever put down on record. To classify them into a single genre would be sacrilege. Their debut Pain is Truth drew much influence from the hardcore scene but combined this influence with originality and experimentation. 9 Ways finds the band increasing their scope and experimenting unapologetically with different genres and sounds. What they have created is in fact a hybrid of hardcore and death metal combined with traces of goth, black metal and classical writing. Section 8 put out an impressive debut, but it pales in comparison to their latest work. As a band, they have matured and have driven their extremity to a whole new level which is unparalleled among their peers. Their front man Kasey Dorr is dark, menacing and a truly scary fucking guy. The rhythm section is probably one of the best ever assembled, low end heavy grooving bass timed perfectly with Tim Parent's precision drumming. The guitar switches at will from complex acoustics to hyper aggressive hardcore breaks and back again flawlessly. The songs on this disc follow a basic formula in which they start off slow and mellow with acoustic guitar or low bass. Kasey sings in harmony, building up a tension and drawing you into the music with a hypnotizing effect. Without warning, catching you completely off guard, the music then explodes into a screaming bloody fit of rage and brutal maniacal rhythms. Then they switch back again and repeat the pattern, but never predictably enough to feel at ease while listening. The sound works very well and fits the lyrics nicely. Dorr, who writes all the lyrics, must be one of the most terminally depressed people on this planet. The writing is exceptionally good, almost unparalleled in its bleakness. One gets the feeling that Dorr is exorcising his personal demons through music, in effect a catharsis of suffering, loss, and aggression, coming across so honestly that it is frightening. The topics discuss loss of faith, loss of love, suicide, and revenge. The lyrics are also riddled with quasi-satanic occult references. But this is not the dumb satanism of many metal bands, this is cryptic imagery with a higher meaning. Dorr's obvious command of theological concepts and religious imagery is impressive even as he rejects those concepts and questions the validity of everything he has been taught. His understanding of religion makes his anger at God all the more convincing and real. When Dorr screams "From hell's heart I stab at thee" over and over again on God Complex he sounds like he absolutely fucking means it. Divinity Of Lonelinesss contains an almost two minute harmonic vocal section which is truly eerie, talking about the death of a loved one. Then, with no warning, it breaks into heavy grinding guitar and breathless violent screaming "Embrace The Nothing". This is dark and unsettling music. It is also written and played with incredible talent and originality. For a relatively young band, Section 8 have already made a name for themselves. They stand poised along the likes of Cutthroat, One King Down, and Withstand as gods of the Albany/Troy underground. 

myspace.com/section8watkajtys8dorr8janik8parent8section8 

2. hardcore band from,

Ostergotaland, 
Sweden.

They released a split 7” with a French label called Holy Fury that that is now sold out of print. They made the cd / 7” “throw a spanner into the works”. There fast and melodic without loosing aggressiveness. Lyrics are not the usual youth crew stuff, but touches onimportant subjects in a simple matter. A classic and real HARDCORE band… Now with a new single out on Burning Heart Records.

Band Members;
Calle-BEAT, 
Victor- VOICE, 
Danne-BASS,
Nirre-GUITAR, 
Anders-GUITAR. 

myspace.com/sectionnate

3. A hardcore band from nevada who released one demo. Section 8 was one of nearly four dozen Northern California and Nevada bands featured on the Faulty Products distributed Alternative Tentacles LP, "NOT SO QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT"tape. Formed in the early 1980s, Section 8 hailed from Reno, Nevada.
Throughout the 1980s and to the present there are (or have been) at least 6 punk bands with the name Section 8; this one seems to have faded into punk history, leaving behind the one anthem included on NOT SO QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT, "Fat, Drunk & Stupid"...

4. A band from Los Angeles, California, U.S.A., that now goes by Phathom.

5.Alternative rockers, Section 8 (later re-named Kinetic Output,)  first release, "Let's Go To Mars."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Section+8">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.