Sedate Illusion is a project of Vangelis Kakarougas (ex-member of Kinetic and ex-member of Equal Vector). It initiated back at 2004 and there was a complete instrumental album called "Sedate Illusion", where Theodore Pegousis (ex-drummer of Equal Vector) took part. Now Sedate Illusion, since September of 2014, is a full band with Anastasios Kibizis (guitars), Vangelis Glavinas (bass guitar) and Andreas Alamanos on the drum set.

This time there is the "0545" full length album with 8 songs and 3 instrumental tracks which its creation begun in February of 2009 and completed in the end of 2010 with the title "0545". Peter Politis participates in two tracks which are the rhythm and the solo guitar section of the song "0545" and the solo guitar section of the instrumental track "Fish inside my mattress". Kostas Alexakis (ex-Kinetic and Acid Death drummer) participated in the brutal vocal section of the song "As we fall". The album is available for you to download through this link :

http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?va9d9ed733oymze

The album "IIlusory Sustenance" was created in 2011 - 2012 and contains 8 tracks out of which one is instrumental. Peter Politis participated on guitars and Lefteris Zochios on the creation of some of the lyrics section. An important role in the incident, was that the album has spent its last processing phase (mastering) by Martin Anderson in Lastdropmastering Studios of San Francisco.

"What Remains" is the third studio album of Sedate Illusion. It came out in February of 2014 and this is a very special album because it has a concept from the beginning to the end. Furthermore, there has been a beautiful collaboration with some amazing musicians and those are : Anastasio Kibizis (Guitars), Andreas Alamanos (Drums), Vangelis Glavinas (Bass), Spiros Gelekas (Additional Vocals), Lia Kolita (Additional Voals), Charitini Anastasiadou (Additional Vocals), Konstantinos Koskinas (French Horn), Alexandra Grammenou (Oboe) and the flutes are Elli Anyfanti, Despoina Anyfanti, Maria Maltezou and Athina Doukakis. Watch also the promo video that is linked on this site! Enjoy!!!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sedate+Illusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.