There is more than one artist with this name:
1) seed  is a progressive funk/reggae/rock band from northeast ct.  Members include Travis Pihlman, Derek Joly, Mike Aubin, and Chris West.  With a few great songs on here such as Ruby, Slice of Bread, Half Step Further, and Have much love

2) Seed is musician Paul Schütze, who also records under his own name and the name Uzect Plaush. Born in 1958 in Melbourne - where he lived intermittently until relocating to the UK in 1992 - on leaving high school Schütze spent time playing percussion and electronics - again, truly his passion until this day - in all kinds, and any number, of live jazz, improv and experimental settings. But probably the biggest influence on his future work at this time was his decision in 1979 to go travelling, initially in Australia's near-East and then on through India, North Africa and the Mediterranean, eventually winding up in London, where he saw a host of his musical heroes perform live.

3) Seed are a visual kei band from Japan. Signing with the label, Planet Child, the group soon developed a following for their heavy rap-influenced style. Although the group have yet to announce a definite split, they haven't released any material since 2008.

4) Seed was an alternative band from the early 90s, hailing from Texas.  It was comprised of Gabriel Ordonez on Vocals and Guitar, Chadwick Salls on Vocals and Bass, Kyle Schneider on Drums, and Dean Truitt on Guitar.  They released one album, Ling, with the minor hit "Rapture."  Former members have since gone on to such projects as Chadwick Salls in the band Color.

5) Seed is a noise/ambient/industrial project of Pery from Milano, Italy and two girls from Slovenia and Holland (Ana and Eleke). The Seed is working hard to transpose in the shape of noise all its nightmares.

6) SEED is a 4-member dance/vocal group from Kyushu, Japan, who are mostly known for their tracks on the Girl's BOX compilations. Members are HAZUKI, KURUMI, RIKO, and MANA. Their first album, "BLOOMIN'", was released in November 2006.

7) Seed is a death metal act from Seoul, South Korea, formed in 1989. In 1998, Seed released their first full-length studio album, entitled "Terror Struck". Seed disbanded around 1999. The drummer, Bak Jae-Ryun, formed Doxology as a continuation of Seed but it's considered a different band. Seed reformed in 2007 and released "Origin of Seed" in late June 2010.

8) Seed is a hard rock band from Memphis, TN. The name Seed comes from the idea of a new beginning and taking something from the start and growing it to its full potential. Formed in late 2011, Seed is composed of Jacob Harlan, Steve Hatmaker, Chuck Lirette, Jeff Gaubert, and Donald Price. With a collective 40 years of experience and playing countless shows with national acts such as Avenged Sevenfold, Saving Abel, Saliva, Papa Roach, and Evans Blue, there is no doubt that the band knows how to bring a high-energy rock show.

9) SeeD is a pagan folk band from The Netherlands, calling their music fairy folk.

10) SEED is an experimental doom band from Boston, MA. They are composed by Lux (vocals, he/they), Chelsea (guitar, she/her), Jack (drums, they/them) and Will (bass, they/them).
Twitter: @thebandseed
IG: @thebandseed  
Bandcamp: https://seedma.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.