Evil, darkness, melancholy and anger. SEEDS IN BARREN FIELDS set out to combine the melodies of death metal, the old school gothenburg way, with the coldness of epic yet grim black metal, darker aspects of hardcore, emotional crust and a hint of atmospheric post rock, creating a soundscape fit for an apocalyptic view of the world.

With roots deeply entangled in punk and political hardcore, these seeds are blooming, bursting out into a fully fledged, and raw as hell, metal assault.

SEEDS IN BARREN FIELDS engage, with black flags raised, in a battle against religious moral dogma, capitalism, nationalism, consumerism, domestication and social control - civilization as we know it. Promoting values of freedom such as (green) anarchy, animal liberation and gender equality as an alternative to being a part of a lost, scared and disillusioned mankind. In short, searching for ways out of the cages of a society whos heading towards its certain decline. Musically painting a desperate attempted escape out of this massive darkness of depression and apathy, the evil of a society with sharpened teeth, a rhythmic never ending machine, feeding on the young and weak, the panic of entrapment ...yet still somehow maintaining a melancholic feeling of hope, knowing that we are still alive, that we, despite the opposition, still are searching for the light, another way -a way out.

A split seven inch together with the black and green american death metal crusties of PEREGRINE are in the works and scheduled to be out early 2010 on ideozlocin. civilizations will crumble to dust.

Seeds in Barren Fields are also honoured to release a split seven inch together with the pagan anarchist blackmetal act that is PANOPTICON. Look out 2010, it IS grim up north.

SEEDS IN BARREN FIELDS are currently looking for labels and kids to co operate with. If interested in putting up shows or in other ways help out, contact: seedsinbarrenfields@hotmail.com

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/seedsinbarrenfields#ixzz0yIZmh6vT
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seeds+In+Barren+Fields">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.