There is more than one artist with this name:

1) In vancouver b.c, Canada is Jordan Sauer. He began making music a few years back when he discovered more danceable forms of electronic music, but since then he has moved on to experiment and develop his own style of dub inspired electronic music. With a background in classical violin, piano and guitar, he aims to infuse instrumentation with field samples in his own inventive way. Much of the time, this results in sounds that are unrecognizable from there sample sources. This creative side of electronic music, which gives the artist complete control over the end result, is what keeps him going. The thought that there is so much yet to be explored drives him crazy.

2) Segue is the established progressive tech live act that came to national attention as the side project of Leo Hede and Dave Dri, formerly of Statler & Waldorf and Superfluid and D-KO respectively. Becoming a mainstay support act for techno and edgey electro house acts in Brisbane, the act moved to headline iconic nights such as DROP before Dri packed the studio for a recording mission in London, Barcelona and Lagos. Returning to set up dual studios in Sydney and Brisbane, the duo is re-enforcing the ranks of relentless live electronic acts from Australia including their contempories Infusion and Jaytech. Both are involved in various elements of event promotion, streetpress, radio and dance music culture and will be found returning to europe in 2007 for a replay of Dri's 2004 tour which saw him the first Australian to play Exit Fest in Serbia.

3) Segue is a San Francisco Bay Area-based rock band. Formed in January 1994, in San Rafael, California, Segue blends rock ‘n’ roll with blues, pop, country, and funk. The band have released three albums to date: Segue, Escape Without Injury and Live – Under the Covers.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Segue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.