Seigmen is a Norwegian alternative rock band who came into prominence in the early 1990s. The band's name is derived from a Norwegian brand of (sweet) candies, "Seigmenn". The band went from a hard-edged grunge-like style to a more dynamic sound with more ambient parts and use of synthesizers and various audio-effects. Although hard to categorize, their music varies from album to album.

It all started in Tønsberg, Norway 1989. Sverre Økshoff and Alex Møklebust started a band with the name Klisne Seigmenn having their first gig at the “Christmas rock” event (julerock) in Tønsberg, December 27, 1989 . The next year Marius Roth Christensen, Kim Ljung and Noralf Ronthi joined the band.

total was the album which caught Norway's ears. Some of the songs such as sort tulipan were very gloomy and had a gothic-like atmosphere. metropolis is their most well-known album to this date. radiowaves is the album that shows a significant change on their style. The keyboardist/programmer Eric Ljungren (who later would join Kim, Alex and Noralf in Zeromancer) is more present, and the songs are similar to New order and Depeche Mode. They split in 1999 after a farewell tour.


Møklebust, Ljung and Ronthi later formed the band Zeromancer in 2000. In addition, Kim Ljung has a solo project under the name Ljungblut.

Seigmen reunited during the UKA-festival in Trondheim, Norway on October 20, 2005, and decided to do even more reunion-gigs in Norway – 7 shows in February 2006, and played several festivals in Norway such as the Slottsfjell festival in Tønsberg.

In early 2008 it was announced that Seigmen would again play live, which they did on June 21 at the Oslo Opera House, as one of the shows celebrating the opening of the new Opera House in Oslo. Selling out the show quickly, a second concert was set up the day after.

The band resurfaced again in 2012, when they played several festivals in Norway. In July 2013, Seigmen were one of the bands to play in honor of HRH Crown Prince Haakon of Norway at his 40th anniversary. 

Seigmen will once again tour Norway in 2015 to promote their upcoming album Enola, the first containing all new material since 1997. The first single from the album entitled Hva Vi Elsker was released through digital media on February 13th 2015.

Members:
Alex Møklebust (main vocals)
Sverre Økshoff (guitar)
Marius Roth Christensen (guitar, vocals)
Kim Ljung (bass)
Noralf Ronthi (percussion) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seigmen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.