SEITA is a Brazilian four-piece band hailing out of Amsterdam that stands for straight up death/thrash and metalcore. 

Inspired by the contradictions, passions and violence of their homeland, and infused with new views provided by a life on the move, Seita delivers a sound best described as pure aggression in its most visceral form. 

Early in 2007 drummer Dom Mura and vocalist/guitarist Michel Gambini got together and, ignoring the latest fads in the music scene, started writing material. Within no time they had punched out songs that they felt had the potential to go beyond the walls of their rehearsal room – an energy later boosted by creative guitarist Edson Munhoz. In March 2008 bass-player André Sparta completed the line-up and the band finished the self-recorded MCD 'Imprint Forever'; 6 tracks + intro mixed and mastered by Danny O'Really (Deicide,Biohazard,Napalm Death). 

Between late 2008 and 2011 SEITA plays live shows/festivals in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, Spain and the band is invited for a festival performance in South-Korea; 11 July 2009 they are the headliner of Asia Metal Festival in Seoul (South Korea). After this performance they are invited to come back 15 August to play at Dongducheon Rock Festival and Trendkill Extreme Feast (both South Korea). The newest challenge will be the Masters of Sound/Living Legends Festival @ 7 Towers Dungeon @ Istanbul, Turkey, 18 September 2011 where the band will share the stage with legends like Diamondhead, Whiplash, Korpiklaani, Holy Moses etc. Coming all the way from South-America with a clear goal in mind, they give it ALL on stage!

The band supported bands like Soulfly, Enemy Reign, Pestilence, Sinister, Skarhead, Oathean and many other (inter)national bands. Beginning 2011 André Sparta leaves the band and new bassplayer Diego Gomez joins the band. 
Seita's upcoming album (10 tracks) will be released the coming months, produced by Daniel Bergstrand and mastered by Rickard Sporrong, know from their work for bands like Behemoth, Messhuggah, In Flames, Decapitated, Soilwork etc. Together with the CD a videoclip from one of the songs will be available.

Committed to honesty, their feelings and attitude combined with each member's influences and experiences will undoubtedly impel Seita to expand the boundaries of their own music.

SEITA =

Michel Gambini - Vocals/Guitar
Edson Munhoz - Guitar
Diego Gomez - Bass
Dom Mura - Drums
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SEITA">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.