There is more than one artist with this name:
1. Drum 'n bass producer / dj from Holland
2. IDM, Electronica and Experimental music producer from Bulgaria
3. A edge metal/metalcore pioneer from Belgium
4. A black metal band hailing from the Northern Winds of Canada.


1. Sektor has been one of Holland's leading drum&bass dj's and party organisors since 2002, organising some of the biggest drum&bass events in the country and scoring several nominations at the Dutch D&B Awards over the years. In 2013 his bootleg remix of Mr Probz - Waves was one the most popular uploads on the Liquicity YouTube channel.
Releases on leading labels like Liquicity, Fokuz Recordings and Celsius Recordings followed quickly after, resulting in dj support from dj's like Maduk (Liquicity / VIPER), Lung (Hospital / Med School), NCT (Liquicity / Liquid Tones), Vandera (Good Looking Records) and many more.

2. Sektor became fond of the electronic sound at an early age. He has been producing IDM, Electronica and Experimental music since 2001. Formerly he used to play music as a DJ, but with a growing interest in sequencing he decided to leave behind the turntables. He develops his skills together with his friends, participates in forums and discussions, and makes his brutal experiments at home.
He organises some local events and has performed live at these. A constant change of place for his music creation reflects in different ways in his productions.
After his debut on Tonatom in the middle of 2004, a small ep on Uran97 and a split ep with ILI on Camomille music, he then released albums on Kahvi collective -"under the moonlight","embrion dream" and "Iloe", plus the forthcoming "sektor-colour variations" on the same netlabel. He has also released 2 digital albums -"Nostalgia Ep" and "Koli", distributed from several online shops such as Beatport, ITunes and others, via Kahvi records.Octorber 2006 Sektor and his friends launched Controne Records and his sublabel Controne Digital,releasing under CC licence atmospheric and melodic electronica,ambient,downbeat,upbeat,with first two releases from him - Hitaiu Ep and Seryju EP,and after that he contribute to several compilations for the same label. On 16 october 2006 follow another album - "Colour variations" on Kahvi collective and soon after that Cd for Boltfish recordings with Taborshell.

3. An edge metal pioneer from the H8000-scene in Belgium.

4. Sektor is a black metal project hailing from North Bay, Ontario. The idea behind Sektor is very simple, to create atmospheric, dark, music that will take your mind on a journey. With Rotting Corpse on lead vocals, and Malheur on backing vocals, guitar, bass, synth, and drum kit.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sektor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.