Rising from the ashes of various metal bands and poaching from others, Select and Dismember's primary intention is to play punishing, brutal yet thoughtfully crafted death metal. Each song is quite different from the next while maintaining the chaos and brutality you would expect from a band of this genre. Select and Dismember became fully-formed in March 2009 in Halifax, Nova Scotia (Canada). The band has played a handful of shows to date receiving an extremely positive response on each occasion. While new to the scene, Select and Dismember is comprised of veteran players and who are above all else fans of metal.

Drummer Corey Andrews is best known to those who pay attention in the underground metal scene for his masterful work in Cephalectomy. Cephalectomy has five official releases (excluding demos) to its credit. All of which of been warmly received by fans and critics worldwide for the past decade.

Guitarists Chris O'neill and Ryan Hand have partaken as members of various Halifax metal bands such as Defective Perception and Vulgus. Having played together in Defective Perception, Chris and Ryan are intimately familiar with each's playing style which only enhances their riffing, harmonies and lead work.

Mark Hooper replaced Scott Armstrong (Cephalectomy, Dichotic, Cephalic and Entrafis) on bass in January 2010.

Mark is a talented, multi-faceted musician with proven abilities playing guitar, bass and drums. His experience in bands such as Demiurgus and aequanimus have him well-prepared for this latest assignment.

Rounding out Select and Dismember and coming out of virtual retirement in 2009 is vocalist Raland Kinley. Raland acted as frontman for Dichotic (1997-2001) and has made numerous appearances as a guest vocalist on most Cephalectomy releases. In the past he was a strong promoter of the Halifax metal scene through his once active label Discorporate Music and his contributions to the Maritime Metal message board. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Select+and+Dismember">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.