There are one or more artists with the name Self Inflicted.

1.) Self Inflicted, hailing from Mechelen plays true  Biest Metal.
Self Inflicted started out back in 1997. In 1998 they decided to add an extra solo guitar, which made them a 5 members band. After a couple of shows and a lot of beers they decided that they would try to involve their home town Mechelen in their texts (the history, legends and sagas).

In 1999 they recorded their first demo CD: “Upon The Ruins Of Machal…” and played a lot of shows. After a while the singer decided that he just wanted it to be fun so he left the band because he thought it was becoming a bit “big”.

With the singer leaving, Self Inflicted knew a difficult period with a few line up changes. Although this difficult period lasted almost 3 years they continued playing their shows and gained some very loyal fans.
In 2002 Self Inflicted recorded new songs in Rotterdam (The Netherlands). The results of these recordings however, were rather disappointing and the band decided to keep these to themselves. They played on underground summer festivals, one of which was the first and memorable edition of the Kleudde festival with bands like Aborted, Mortifier and many others.

In 2003 they finally recorded their second demo CD: “The All Seeing Eye” and as a result, played a lot of gigs. The demo sound was not super but regarding the budget it got pretty good reviews by magazines like ‘MindView’ and some e-zines like ‘www.deathmetal.be”.

New shows came up, but in 2005 guitar player Steven decided to quit the band. Self Inflicted found a replacement in Joeri who brought his own musical influences and style of playing to the band. A lot of new songs were written and in November 2006 they entered the studio again to record “Modraneth”. This album is the celebration of their 10 years existence. So it’s 10 years of Biest Metal now.

In 2008, Joeri left Self Inflicted to play with the Fireforce dudes. Self Inflicted was left wandering for a while, but decided to continue playing with three. After some experimenting, they continue to bring you their unique biest metal sound, though it sounds nastier and heavier! Be sure to check out the SI experience live!

2.) Self Inflicted is also the name of a Hertfordshire based Female Fronted metal band.

Self Inflicted formed in 2005 in Royston, Hertfordshire, UK under the name ‘Evolution’. The original line-up of the band featured Heidi, Dom and Jon, with bassist Chris Borsberry and guitarist Ben Langridge. In 2006, Borsberry relocated to Thailand to tour with a major artist, and, at his recommendation, Brendan replaced him. Shortly after Brendan's arrival, the band changed their name to Self Inflicted as they felt that ‘Evolution’ no longer fitted the heavier style of music that they were writing. This line-up recorded their first demo at MA Studios, Norwich, UK. By the start of 2007, Self Inflicted had become an established act on the local circuit, performing every weekend at venues all over the South East of England. However, despite their increasing popularity, Langridge decided to leave the band for a non musical career. After initially continuing as a four piece, the band chose Steve Wallace, an established guitar tutor, as Ben's replacement. The new line up immediately began writing and perfecting their sound, and also landed some high profile gigs supporting Irish rock band The Answer, former Progidy guitarist Gizz Butt, and, at the 1st Summer Explosion Festival in Hertfordshire, UK, Self Inflicted performed to over 1000 people. The beginning of 2009 saw the departure of longtime drummer Jon Terrell due to illness, and bassist Brendan Judd due to musical differences. The band quickly recruited drummer Igor Mihailov, and also recruited James Marinos (Keyboards/Backing Vocals) and Mike Lewin (Bass) from Hertfordshire doom metallers Wake Of Myetsa. These changes bought with them a complete overhaul of the Self Inflicted sound, with the band experimenting with samples and Death Metal vocals on some of the tracks. Despite the recent departure of Mihailov, the band will be entering the studio soon to record a brand new E.P.

The band recorded their new two track EP with their new drummer Steve Clark, and started promoting it in mid 2010, but tension's rose and Self Inflicted fell apart with the departure of Steve Wallace (Guitar) Steve Clark (Drums)  James Marinos (Keybpards and Samples) and Mike Lewin (Bass Guitar), it is unknown at this time if a new lineup will surface in 2011

3.) Thrash punk band. Started originally in 1998 by members of Progeria, Bad Acid Trip, Bred On Deception and Strains Of The Apocalypse. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Self+Inflicted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.