There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Selma Björnsdóttir (born 13 June 1974), also known as just Selma, is an Icelandic singer born in Reykjavík, best known internationally for representing her country in the Eurovision Song Contest and as a big star in her home country. (see details)

2) Hailing from Utrecht, the Netherlands, this aging trio engages in some freeform guitar action. Establishing themselves around 1999, recording on and off till present.  (see details)

3) Selma Peelen is a dutch singer/songwriter. Her music is best described as alternative folk-pop with some eastern influences.

4) Selma is Ukrainian Post Rock/Sludge Metal band from Rivne City.

5) Selma, or Selma Bodøgaard is a Norwegian Jazz/Pop/Singer/Songwriter from a town called Bodø.

...

1 continued) 
Her first Eurovision experience occurred when she took her highly-fancied entry All Out of Luck to the 1999 contest in Jerusalem, placing Iceland in the unaccustomed position of being the pre-contest favourites with many bookmakers. Following a vibrant vocal and visual display on the night – with choreography that appeared to be somewhat influenced by Carola's famous routine from the 1991 contest – Selma shot into an early lead in the voting, but was gradually pegged back by Sweden, represented by Charlotte Nilsson. Despite trailing Nilsson only very narrowly before the penultimate set of votes were announced, Selma's hopes of victory came to an abrupt end when Bosnia and Herzegovina awarded maximum points to Sweden and nothing at all to Iceland. However, Selma's second place in Jerusalem still ranks as Iceland's best showing in the contest to date by some distance.

Such a fine pedigree ensured she was a hugely popular choice to represent Iceland for a second time in the Eurovision Song Contest 2005, to be held in Kyiv. However, despite its being one of the favourites to go on to win the contest, her song If I Had Your Love did not make it to the final. Iceland's early exit at the semi-final stage was one of the biggest upsets of the 2005 contest.

Selma also was one of the main attractions under the Eurovision gala concert during Europride 2005 in Oslo, performing both of her hugely beloved Eurovision entries. Other celebrities included Baccara, Nanne, Bobbysocks and Nora Brockstedt. Later the same night she held an intimate concert at the popular nightclub Smuget right by, where also another Icelandic Eurovision participant, Paul Oscar and the reputed Norwegian Eurovision commentator, Jostein Pedersen, showed up.

2 continued)
For people living out of town, Selma, the individual we named ourselves after, is somewhat of a local legend. Nowadays she lives in Spain.
Website: www.selma.cc <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Selma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.