An Italian Vagabond...

Selvans comes from the most putrid and infested Italian underworld during the first moons of 2014. Silently wandering among the ruins of abandoned villages, from the mountains to the sea, followed by a procession of fauns and other beasts, He feasts with the spirits, toasts and drinks from the nymphs’ bosoms while being the keeper of dark tales from the Italian historical, magical and folkloric heritage.
Between 2015 and 2016, they see the light the EP “Clangores Plenilunio” (joined by Jonny - drums and vocals- , Stolas - bass - and Fulguriator – guitars - ) and the first full-lenght “Lupercalia” together with the split with Downfall Of Nur (with Fulguriator – guitars –). 
A fortunate ritualistic path to Faun opens with them, with ferocious metal hymns drenched in symphonic and dramatic keyboards and sorrounded by the use of antique instruments given by Faun himself to his minister. An hymn to the ancient spirituality of His country! 
In 2018, after 3 years and more than 50 shows around Italy and Europe, it’s time for the second full-length 'Faunalia' where a strong dark progressive vein makes its way, together with a large use of organs and synthesizers that forged the sound of the project in a unequivocal way. The result is pure Dark Italian Art, where metal meets all the highest musical and lyrical forms that charachterized the Italian culture in the past.
After the realease of the album, the longtime guitarist and collaborator Fulguriator leaves the project,  that eventually switched from a 'duo' to the 'solo-project' of its mastermind Selvans, supported in studio and live by four cutthroats of the worst kind: Acheron and Apsychos (guitars), Agares (bass) and Hyàkrisht (drums) with the addition of other assholes met here and there during the raids... 
Today the Italian vagabond Selvans, dances from the North to the South of the peninsula, through the woods, graves and ruins of abandoned villages! Feral and inebriated, He sets the marching pace with two human femurs on an off-key drum while drinking wine. Bastards and beasts of all backgrounds rush to increase his ranks! Dressed in rags, with a black bird perched on his shoulder who whispers the worst blasphemies to his ear, the Master of decadence presents his EP-Manifesto: 'Dark Italian Art'... 
Curtains up! And and may the beasts come forward when the gods step back! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Selvans">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.