SEMARGL - ukrainian-norwegian metal band formed in Kyiv (Ukraine) in 1997. The first works tended toward Black Metal, and the later material have a noticable Death Metal and Industrial influence. But the last album marked by reaching beyond any existing current styles of heavy music. Aggression of satanic black metal, technical elements of old school thrash and dynamism of rock'n'roll'a combined here with a totally unexpected lyrical piano parts and clean female vocals and industrial electronic samples. The lyrics touch on issues concerning Satanism, anti-Christianity, philosophy, war. 

Current members:
Rutarp – vocals;
Shaddar – guitar;
Hannibal – bass, vocals;
Fordervelse – drums;

Founding group
The history of SMEARGL began in 1997 with their creater "Rutarp" who determined the creative and compositional direction (melodic death / black metal ) as well as the philosophy of the band. Gradually picking up the compositional skills needed. SEMARGL entered the studio in 1999 to record their first demo. This comprised of 4 songs including a cover song by At The Gates.
Continually writing materiel, SEMARGL also recorded a 2nd demo which was never released. One of the songs on this 4 track demo was entitled "The Falling" but was later reworked for SEMARGLs debut album. Also, by 2003, the band had a stable lineup:

Rutarp – vocals;
Shaddar – guitar;
Kirkill – bass;
Equinox – drums;
Shamala – keyboards;
Morthvarg – guitar.

As the band developed, each member had more input to the actual sound. Shaddar's involvement moved the sound of the band more to a black metal approach, creating more of a melodic atmosphere. Thus, SEMARGL from the very start are not confined to a single genre, instead they draw upon a number of styles to create their music.

Development
In May 2004, the group visited the Polish city of Bialystok to record their first album “Attack On God”  in Hertz Studio” (VADER, ASGAARD, DECAPITATED, HATE, VESANIA) .
This album was  unleashed to the world on 16th April 2005.  Released on the Russian label “More Hate Productions”, the eight track recording, with styles ranging from melodic black to brutal death metal, has significant keyboard work. The poetic and lyrical standpoint is full of propaganda, outlaid  in the booklet, and delivers a philosophy based on the principles of Satanism, his vision interpreted through the band. The album collects favorable world-wide criticism, resulting in the  American label Deathgasm Records to fully redeem the rights for publication in the United States. This label also gave the band a professional looking product.

During 2005, Morthvarg and Shamala leave the band, and the remaining members waste no time in starting to write the next album. This album "Satanogenesis" was recorded at the same “Hertz” studio. Despite a relatively short period of time from the release of the first album, they are able to create a very different sounding album than before. The sound is more raw, the music  is faster, and the lyrical content is even more angry and blasphemous. The final version of the album includes 13 tracks, with several industrial / dark electro ones. Once again the band’s lyrical content is of a similar nature to earlier works.

Satanogenesis, also under Deathgasm,  is released on  the 8th June 2006, and soon after,  the band is sent to Germany to record the third disc.
At this time, recording, mixing and mastering is done at Echolane Recording Studio (Bad Bergen, Germany),  and engineered by Kai Schwerdtfeger. This recording, later entitled as "Manifest" (manifestation of the war as a radical method for solving the problems of humanity) works on a  musical and ideological level and divided into three logical parts:  "Radius", "Eradication" and "Verdict". It contains 13 tracks and a video for the song ”Selection” in the multimedia section.
At this stage, "Manifest" was the biggest achievement yet, demonstrating their high artistic skill, and their aptitude for literacy. Musically, the album leans more towards death metal, but the topics are close to Satanism, with new militaristic ideas.

Almost a year later on the 29thAugust 2007, "Manifest" was successfully published and distributed by  Deathgasm Records. 
SEMARGL  release a video on the Internet from the album "Manifest", showing the bands ideology with slogans and propaganda.
 In 2007, changes in the line-up are happening. The new drummer “Equinox” replaces “Erland”, who  left the group. New bassist “Kirkill” replaces “Hannibal”. The latter becoming the second vocalist, bringing a new vocal style to the fold.

 In 2008 they conduct several performances at festivals in both Russia and Ukraine, while continuing to work on material for the next full length album.

Our days
In early 2009, SEMARGL signs a contract with German label and distribution company “Twilight Vertrieb”, thereby opening a new phase in their career. The recording of the fourth SEMARGL album  “Ordo Bellictum Satanas” was in August/September 2009, and ireleased on the 12th of March 2010.

Following guest musicians were recorded in new album:

Jonny Maudling (Bal-Sagoth, My Dying Bride) - Piano, Brass, Orchestra;
Nera (Darzamat, NeraNature) - Female vocal in song Credo Flaming Rain;
Novy (Vader, Behemoth, Virgin Snatch, Dies Irae ...) - Bass in song Credo Insanity (Intoxicated);
Iscariah (Dead To This World, Necrophagia, Immortal) - Vocal in song Credo Dead To This World;
Vrangsinn (Carpathian Forest, A Waste Of Talent, Nattefrost) - Satanic noise.

Links:
Official site: www.semargl.com.ua
SEMARGL on MySpace: www.myspace.com/semargl
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Semargl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.