SEND MEDICINE began its journey as a freak-folk inspired solo project from Toronto based singer/songwriter Julian Hacquebard. Julian moved the project to Los Angeles in 2013, and began shaping a sound that LA RECORD called “a heady mix of psych, blues, folk and surf - a winning combination.” Since, the band has expanded to a six-piece line up, with a reputation for their deep-felt live performances featuring extensive percussion, thoughtful harmonies, theatrical crowd engagement and a theremin. Drawing on inspirations ranging from Jefferson Airplane, Stone Roses, and The Velvet Underground to name a few; the band continues to evolve and flirt with genres. In 2016, the band released their debut album Scary Aquarius Daughter featuring lead single “July Eyes” and follow up “Baby’s Coast.” The band spent the summer of 2016 touring in support of this album. In October 2016 the band released the psych-pop-electro single “Translucent,” which was added to Spotify’s new New Indie Mix, Undercurrents and the South American derived; Frescura Indie upon release. Spotify has also featured the band on the playlists; Modern Psychedelia and Garage Jams. As of today the band has seen over a million streams. Following a string of SXSW shows and a performance at Broke LA Festival in 2017, SEND MEDICINE completed A sold out-June residency at The Satellite night club in Los Angeles. 

2018 saw the band returning to SXSW as an official act, followed by an opening slot for Toro Y Moi, a placement on VICE television, a west coast tour with fellow LA band Dream Phases and most importantly the release of their sophomore follow up album; Mermaids on the Verandah released through Honey House Records in July. The album picked up national radio attention and saw a healthy life on the NACC top 200 college charts, with hundreds of stations giving the album heavy rotation. Currently the band is coming off a 6 week national tour, in support of their new album, and is busy planning 2019.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Send+Medicine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.