There have been 5 artists with the name Seneca:

One is a metalcore band based out of Charlotte, NC. They have released a full-length self-titled debut on Divisional Media Recordings in 2006.  Their second full-length album, 'Reflections' was released by Lifeforce in March, 2009. The band’s MySpace can be found here: www.myspace.com/senecaband

The second is a once defunct, now reunited, experimental post-rock band of Boston, MA. The act is signed to Radar Recordings (Junius, Constants, Carrigan), and has had two releases. The first release is an EP titled ‘Existe,’ and the second is ‘Oneiro,’ their debut full-length. The full-length, which has yet to be pressed, is available for listening at the band’s MySpace, here: www.myspace.com/senecasound.

The third is a Hardstyle/Hardtrance/Hardcore DJ from Rutesheim near Stuttgart in Germany. He's mostly known from his activity in various forums such as “screamer hardstyle”. Beside different Mixes of which some were broadcast over web-radio, he released two Albums: Diversity 1 and Diversity 2.

The fourth is a rock band from Limerick, Ireland. The four-piece independent outfit seamlessly hop off one ladder rung and on to the next, garnering accolades and an ever expanding legion of fans along the way. Seneca is: Rob Hope (vocals, guitar & keys), Yvonne Conaty (vocals, bass & keys), Brendan O'Gorman (guitar), and Daragh O' Loughlin (drums). The band's collective energy is as powerful from the studio as it is the stage; Rob's remarkable range, Brendan's distinctive hooks and sweeping guitar lines, Yvonne's magnetic bass playing and Daragh's explosive drumming, gel together to electrifying effect. http://www.myspace.com/bandseneca

The fifth is a Hungarian progressive metal band. Their only album, called Brutal was released in 1995. Members were: Zsolt Molics (vocals), Richárd Rubcsics (guitars), Zoltán Kuthy (keyboard), Péter Ivanov (bass), Péter Hornyák (drums)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seneca">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.