Senjakala, a band based in Brunei Darussalam, formed by Mawie in 1999 that in the beginning, started off as a melodic death metal band and later on within the years evolved into a metal genre, that combines Gothenburg Metal influenced riffs with melodic female vocals.

The band underwent through a several lineup changes before finally establishing their final lineup which compromises of Sam Siren-Vocals, Mawie-guitars, Yus-Lead Guitar, Adi-Drums and Nami-Bass.

In 2004, Senjakala released Rise above All EP that made a huge success in Brunei that went through the airwaves based on one of the tracks from the EP which was Darkness Falls, that went to top 10 of their local hits; where at that time the radio was dominated mostly by local hip hop acts.

After the release of Rise Above All EP, Senjakala began working on their first full-length album at TNT Studio (Singapore) however conflict arose between the band members and during the middle of the album recording the band broke up due to creative differences. Hence the recording was completely discontinued.

Then in 2006, Mawie, Sam Siren and Adi brought in 2 new other band members to form Karacoma, as Yus and Nami were no longer part of the band. With the new group, Karacoma released their full length Shattered Mirrors in 2010 which consist of local radio hits Paranoia, IKTS and December Snow. During this time Karacoma performed locally and in Malaysia as well.

Finally in 2013, Senjakala reunited with its original line up, Sam Siren, Mawie, Adi, Yus and Nami. In the beginning of the reunion, it was said that Senjakala was only to play for one more time and that was during a gig at Konsert D’ Selatan, Johor, but it did not stop there, the band members of Senjakala realize that they have matured not only as individuals but have a further understanding and respect for one another as musicians hence they reunited fully.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Senjakala">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.