1) Sense of Fear are a death/deathcore/thrashcore band from Kirriemuir, Scotland.
It all started in 2006 when a band got together to play Rage Against the Machine and Seether covers. But over the years, the band developed their own style of metal with gutterals, trash beats and breakdowns. That band is Sense of Fear - the band that will fuck you in the ass and won't call you back.

2) Sense of Fear is a Heavy Metal band that was formed in 1998 in Kozani, Greece. With aggresive style, killing vocals, extreme solos and piercing melodies they are trying to convey their own musical message to the rest of the world. Did you get YOUR taste of sense of fear yet?

The band's original name was Holy Prophecy and founding members were
Giannis Kikis - Guitars & Vocals
Themis Iakovidis - Guitars
Markos Kikis - Drums
During their early period they composed their first 2 songs, entitled "Lord of the World" and "Holy Prophecy" (music & lyrics by Giannis Kikis).

One year later, in 1999, Lazos K. joined the band as a vocalist. Then there was the time when they came up with the songs "Sense of Fear" (music Giannis, lyrics Lazos / Giannis) and "Slaughter of Innocence" (music & lyrics by Giannis Kikis), and they decided to rename the band into SENSE OF FEAR. During the same year there were two more member additions
Antonis K. Bass
Kostas Μ. 3rd Guitar
And that was the lineup till 2003.
In 2003, Lazos Kostas and Antonis all left the band, and Asteris Z. joined, taking up vocals. There were some shows and a rehearsal recording in the next 2 years, till 2005, when Asteris quited and Dimitris G. joined in Bass.
2006 was a productive year in music terms, with 3 more complete songs being composed by Giannis Kikis: "Torture of Mind", "As the ages passing by, time still runs against us" and "Few against many".
One year later, Manos fills in the position of the vocalist, to help the band with some live shows like the one in "wall Club", Ptolemaida.

From 2007 to 2012, there was a period of inactivity for Sense of fear. Fortunately, it was only a matter of time till the band came alive and kicking again.

In early 2013, Ilias Kytidis (EXILE OF HEAVEN) joined the band as a vocalist and completed the line up.

Mid 2013 Sense of Fear went in studio to record their material, and on 25th of October released their self titled EP
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sense+of+Fear">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.