Artist Name: Septimus
Birth Name: Huntley Septimus
Birth Place and Date: St. Andrew, Jamaica, W.I.
Official Bio
Back in 1995, a humble Jamaican chef arrived on the shores of Bermuda, a small island in the mid Atlantic. His name was Huntley Septimus. It was a work visa (as a culinary expert in Jamaican cuisine) that brought this Yardee from Jamdown (Jamaica) to this very different island. However, Septimus had a far greater vision than just being the head chef of a popular Jamaican Restaurant. God placed songs in his heart that could not be silenced. Cooking may have been his job, but music was his calling. 

Born Huntley Septimus, he was raised in a large family with six other siblings. At a young age, he took the rebel route and became heavily involved in guns, drugs and the violent dancehall culture of Jamaica. But in his youthfulness he also realized his passion for music and his talents as a DJ. 

"After all, I was singing from since I know myself" said Huntley. Growing up in his home parish of St. Andrew Jamaica, his singing ability did not go unnoticed. 

By the age of 9 he was already performing on stage under the name "Likkle D" on massive sound systems like Kilamanjaro and Black Scorpio. Likkle D's talent flourished before Jamaican crowds while sharing the limelight with legendary artists such as Yellow Man. 

In 1985 Septimus was converted and gave his life to the Lord and began the major transformation from the being a rude boy in Jamaica, to a voice of inspiration and hope to Bermuda and the rest of the world. In 1992 Septimus was officially ordained as an evangelist in the Bethlehem Reform Church of God. In 1994 Septimus was honored as the winner of the National Gospel Festival in Jamaica and released his first Gospel Album "Jesus is Coming Again." 

In 1995 Huntley's initial vision was realized with the release of his first solo album under the name Septimus. The record was "War Against the Devil" and this explosive disc was breath of fresh air to the parched genre of gospel reggae. Combining his love for theatrics with an energetic stage show, newcomer Septimus was mashing up the microphone with the precision of top secular headliners. "War Against the Devil" went on to win Outstanding Dub/Culture Recording of the Year at the 2002 Marlin Awards (Bahamas). 

Five years since the release of his debut project, Septimus delivers another hot bowl of music from his adopted island home. He has cooked thousands of standard Jamaican dishes in the kitchen such as jerk and curried chicken, all while penning and singing original songs, further developing his unique sound as a singer extraordinaire. With an assortment of Biblically based songs in various musical styles, his music is sweet to the taste and good for the soul. 

As Septimus enters the arena for the second time, it is not as a fighter but as a father. You see before Septimus is a DJ, singer or chef, he is both a husband and father. Huntley and his lovely wife Doreen have been married for 13 years and have two sons that they are very proud of. While watching his sons grow up so fast, Septi realized that God had called him (and all fathers) to be a role model for his sons (someone that would lead by actions not mere words). Refusing to shrink back from this calling he released "Role Model", his sophomore effort that addresses this subject among others. "We need some more role models now, say we don't need no more modelers," sings Septi in the title track of this dynamic CD. 

The most common word used to describe this project is "versatile". Given its many ingredients, if this album was a hot meal, it would be a steaming plate of Pelau or better yet, a hot bowl of Jumbalaya. On this disc, the multitalented chef throws a giant pot over the fire and tosses in six bowls of simmering dancehall, six flavorful cups of mild roots (or dub culture as he calls it), a pinch of scotch bonnet Soca, two tablespoons of aged traditional gospel and two stalks of fresh minced hip hop. The assorted Caribbean sounds found on this hot plate are sure to satisfy the appetite of any listener. 

Exclusive Interview with GospelReggae.com
GR: Tell us about yourself, where were you born and grow up, what your family is like, etc... 

SEPTIMUS: I was born in a little district in St. Andrew, Jamaica, called Perricock. I have four sisters and two brothers. I grew up with my grand mother she was very strict, yet kind and loving. She passed away 4 years ago--I still missed her a lot. 

GR: How did you begin doing music? 

SEPTIMUS: I started doing music at about 9 years old playing drums in the classroom. From there I started singing in the dancehall as a DJ doing various shows around the country with a man called Duke Williamson. After I got saved I decided to use my gift for God. 

GR: What is the most valuable lesson that you learned from your Mom or Dad growing up that you still apply today? 

SEPTIMUS: The most valuable lesson that I learned from my Mom would be never give up and work hard for what you want in life. 

GR: If you could share the stage with any Christian or secular artist in the world (living or dead) who would it be? 

SEPTIMUS: The person that I would love to share the stage with is Shirley Caesar. 

GR: What were the last 5 CDs that you put in your disc changer? 

SEPTIMUS: George Banton- "I'm Next In Line for My Blessing", Mercy Me -- "Almost There", Septimus -- "Role Model", Prodigal Son -- "Radical Prodigal" and Stitchie -- "Kingdom Ambassador". 

GR: What's your favorite verse in the Bible and why? 

SEPTIMUS: My favorite verse in the Bible is Mark 8:36; "For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?" One night I was passing a crusade that the church was having on the side of the road and this was the verse that led me to accept Jesus as my Lord and Savior. 

GR: What Bible character do you most identify yourself with? 

SEPTIMUS: The Bible character that I identify myself with is Joseph because he was a man of integrity. 

GR: As Christians, God is of course our true inspiration, but beyond the generic response of "Jesus," what are your muses in your life (for lack of a better word)? For example, what are the people, places, or things that trigger a fresh musical idea and ultimately a new song for you? 

SEPTIMUS: For me sometimes it’s cooking in the kitchen at work or listening to my pastor preach at church—they inspire me to write new songs. 

GR: What goes through your mind before you go onstage at the average show? 

SEPTIMUS: I wonder if the audience will accept the gospel of Jesus through reggae music and I pray that they get the message. I know the method may be different but the message remains the same. 

GR: Do you prefer being in the studio or on the road?? 

SEPTIMUS: I love doing both. I enjoy working with different people I feel a sense of accomplishment. 

GR: Why do you do music? What is your primary goal? 

SEPTIMUS: I do music because I love it. I believe it is a gift from God and a tool to reach and touch the heart, soul and mind of a person. 

GR: Are you working on any future projects/releases that we should look out for? 

SEPTIMUS: I just started working on another project I'll let you know as soon as it is available. 

GR: Could you please give a message to the reggae fans that are reading this and would like to know more about your faith and who Jesus is to you? 

SEPTIMUS: To all the reggae fans out there I would like to say thank you for supporting me. Jesus is everything to me. He's the center of my joy, the air that I breathe and He's water when I'm thirsty. 

Ministry
"My mission in life is to exalt God as the ultimate authority in my life, to wage war against the devil and to win lost souls for Jesus Christ."--Septimus

[2] Norwegian group playing typical "Danseband" music" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Septimus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.