Septicflesh (formerly known as Septic Flesh) is a Greek symphonic death metal band from Attiki, Athens formed in 1990 by Sotiris Vayenas (guitar) and brothers Spiros Antoniou (bass and vocals), and Christos Antoniou (guitars).

They released their debut EP Temple of the Lost Race in December, 1991 through Black Power Records. The band then followed-up on the recording of their first full-length Mystic Places of Dawn in January–February, 1994 at Storm Studio, with co-production by Magus Wampyr Daoloth (who had previously played keyboards for fellow countrymen Rotting Christ). It was released in May, 1994 through Holy Records.

Septicflesh would then release their sophomore full-length Esoptron in May, 1995 through Holy Records. It was produced by the band themselves and George Zacharopoulos, being first recorded and mixed at Storm Studio, and then mastered by Sonic Contact throughout March–April, 1995 in Athens, Greece.

From years 1991 up until 1997, the band’s lineup was stable but for The Ophidian Wheel (1997) and A Fallen Temple (1998) records, singer Natalie Rassoulis was added as a session member.

By October, 2003 the band had split-up and after their breakup, its members moved on to new or already-existing projects. Chris Antoniou continued his involvement with Chaostar, which he had formed on 1998, while live-keyboardist Bob Katsionis went on to play guitars for Nightfall and keyboards for Firewind, respectively. The Devilworx formed a year later and featured some of the former members from Septiflesh's original lineup. Afterwards, on March, 2007 guitarist Sotiris Vayenas revealed plans for his then-new solo project, Aenaos.

However, on February 19th, 2007 Septicflesh had announced a reunion for Greek “Metal Healing Festival,” which featured Orphaned Land and Rage and Aborted, set to take place on July, 20th–22nd. And by April 3rd, 2007 Blabbermouth reported that the band had reunited for a seventh full-length album for the French record label, Season of Mist. According to guitarist and composer Christos Antoniou, the release would feature a full orchestra and choir, totalling 80 musicians and 32 singers.

Septicflesh then finalized recording for Communion in Studio Fredman, in Sweden. It was released in April, 2008 through Season of Mist. Also, by this time, the band had officially changed its name from Septic Flesh to Septicflesh. The name change was confirmed by Christos Antoniou in a Lords of Metal interview. The reason behind the decision was that it looked better, although the meaning was the same.

Moreover, on September 10th, 2009 the band had announced that they had begun work on a new studio album. Tentatively planned for release in the beginning of 2011; and by December 17th, 2010 the band released their first single "The Vampire from Nazareth" off The Great Mass, and also announced that it would be shipped on April, 28th in the UK and on April, 29th in the US.

By February 12th, 2014 the band released details about their forthcoming Titan, set to release on June, 2014. Following December, 15th of that year, the band announced that Krimh had joined Septicflesh as their new full-time bandmate after the departure of their longtime drummer, Fotis Benardo.

On a June, 2016 interview, Septicflesh had declared that since early 2016, they had been working on their tenth studio recording, which was scheduled for release toward Spring, 2017. In early June of that very year, the band members claimed that Codex Omega was officially due to release on September 1st, 2017. As with their previous record, Codex Omega was released through Prosthetic Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Septicflesh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.