Daniel Engman and Jörgen Björnström were the founders of Septic Grave.
After some early projects together and different setups from 1985 they agreed on the band name in 1988.
The band has always been located in Gällivare far above the Arctic Circle in the north of Sweden.
The early influences were collective on Iron Maiden but also to the more aggressive side of Napalm Death.
After the start we changed the set up and Magnus Olsson was hired to play the drums.
About a year or two after starting as a trio we were taking on the next member on bass, Robert Lindmark.
In 1992 Fredrik Hjärtstöm was hired on guitar to make the foundation complete.
Septic Grave was mostly playing in and around the north of Sweden with a few invitations from Finland and was soon established as a brutal and tight live band after hundreds of live gigs under the belt.

In 1996 Daniel Engman was asked to join an upcoming hardcore band - Soulquake System - from Kristinehamn in the south of Sweden and decided to take the job after Septic Grave was in a slow place due to low business.
Robert Lindmark was moving down to Gothenburg in the south of Sweden and joined the death metal band Prophanity.
The rest of the band was continued under the name Massive. But after continuing slow business for Massive Jörgen Björnström decided to move to Trondheim, Norway and joined the death metal band The Embraced. And then Septic Grave was dead…
After some years of absence Jörgen Björnström quit The Embraced and moved back to Sweden.
Robert Lindmark quit Prophanity and him and his family also moved back.
The same thing happened to Daniel Engman and after quitting Face Down and 2Tribe in Stockholm he also moved back to join the rest of the members in their hometown.
So the whole band was home again.

After a discussion at a party at Fredrik Hjärtstöms house in 2008 the ideas was starting to reunite the band and a year later 2009 we decided to make a restart.
Soon the band was rehearsing and writing new songs and everybody was having a good energy and looking forward to a new record and playing live together.
But it all comes to a shocking stop when in 2011 Jörgen Björnström, one of the founders, was diagnosed with cancer and shortly therafter passed away, only 35 years old.
After 3 years of sadness we finally decided to give the band one more chance to make a new and final start and in 2014…
Septic Grave was one more time alive!

The current lineup is:

Daniel Engman - Vocals
Fredrik Hjärtström - Guitar
Jonas Ohlsson (ex Void, Massive, MR Death) - Drums 
Jonas Backe (ex Impaled, Soulcollector) and Divido - Guitar 
Simon Ahnfeldt (ex Carneous) - Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Septic+Grave">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.