Sepulchral Curse started taking shape in the early 2013 as a few tracks, riffs and ideas, still without an actual line-up, but with a clear vision: to create Death Metal in the vein of the elder statesmen of the genre while pushing and exploring the boundaries of a backbone line-up of drums, vocals, a guitar and a bass.

While the initiation of the band didn't occur until 2014, preparations were being made throughout 2013. The band began rehearsing for studio and live performances in January 2014 with the line-up of Kari Kankaanpää (Solothus), Jaakko Riihimäki (ex-Dethera, ex-Devastracktor, ex-Gladenfold), Tommi Ilmanen (Gambanteinn, Urgamla, ex-Dethera) and Niilas Nissilä (ex-Urgamla).

During the spring of 2014 the band entered the studio to record their debut EP titled "A Birth in Death". It was released by the Greek Chaos and Hell Productions during August 2014. After the release, the band concentrated on playing live around Finland.

At the end of 2015, Sepulchral Curse's new songs aimed for a heavier, more intricate sound. To fulfill this vision, a second guitarist was added to the line-up in the form of Aleksi Luukka to perfect the band's sound. As 2016 dawned, the band began pre-production for their second EP ”At the Onset of Extinction”. After hearing the raw rehearsal tracks, Transcending Obscurity Records saw the promise for excellence and offered Sepulchral Curse a record deal. ”At the Onset of Extinction” was recorded during the summer. While the debut EP ”A Birth In Death” followed more traditional paths, ”At the Onset of Extinction” showed a whole new band to the world.

After the release of "At the Onset of Extinction" Sepulchral Curse focused completely on live gigs and played numerous intense gigs around Finland. As 2018 dawned the band started pre-production for their debut album to be released by Transcending Obscurity Records and Lycantrophic Chants. Later part of the year 2018 and first part of 2019 went in the studio crypts to record and produce the black diamond that was at hand. At the end of 2019 Sepulchral Curses debut album "Only Ashes Remain" is finally unleashed upon the world!

Sepulchral Curse combines in their music the chaotic nature of Black Metal with the crushing, twisted sounds of Death Metal, entwining with the deeply occult and spiritual lyrics.. Sepulchral Curse never want to restrict themselves in creative chains nor to make the same album twice as they draw inspiration from a vast variety of influences. The only aspect that is certain, is death.

Tommi Ilmanen - Drums & Vocals
Kari Kankaanpää - Vocals
Jaakko Riihimäki - Guitars
Niilas Nissilä - Bass
Aleksi Luukka - Guitars <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sepulchral+Curse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.