1) Sepulchrum is a blackened death metal band from Denmark.
http://www.sepulchrum.net
2) Sepulchrum is also a spectral medieval satanic black ambient project from Hungary, which belongs to Inner Awakening circle. Formed in 2006.
3) Sepulchrum is a Belgian raw black metal project, part of the Ordo Omegae Absolutae-collective.

1) About the Danish band Sepulchrum:
--------------------
The Danish metal band Sepulchrum was formed in September of 2007 by members Martin Pedersen (lead guitar), Lasse Guldhammer (vocals, guitar) and Lars Bisballe Jensen (drums).

Until late summer 2008 the band primarily focused on cover songs by bands such as Bloodbath, Bolt Thrower, Carcass and Satyricon. At this point the band completed their lineup with the addition of bassist Anders Jacobsen, and a goal was set to complete their first demo for release in the beginning of 2009.

Therefore, in August 2008, the band began developing their own sound and it quickly took shape as a mix of black metal and old-school death metal. This resulted in 3 new songs to be featured on the demo. The production began with recordings in November of 2008 and the final result of the latest months of hard work is now introduced to the world in the form of the 3-track demo A Sepulchral Theme.

The demo is available for free from the official band homepage www.sepulchrum.net.

After the release of the demo the band has focused on writing material for a full-length debut album. No release date is set, but as of april 2010 almost all compositions are in place, ready to be recorded. The style is very similar to that of the demo. The tracks range from slow-moving atmospheric songs to somewhat faster more melodic songs. The album will contain about 45 minutes of music.

The album was released in September of 2011 as a free download at http://www.sepulchrum.net. Sadly, this was also the time when the band decided to disband because of artistic differences. The Gardens of Necropolis is their legacy.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sepulchrum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.