Craig "Serani" Marsh is a member of the hit making trio Daseca and has been kicking out hit songs for a number of years now. His beat creating skills have gone widely unnoticed but the unassuming genius has been responsible for rhythms such as the hugely popular Anger Management, Chaka Chaka, Dreaming, Gully Creature, Build Back and Fire Links’ Gullyside rhythm to name just a few.

Described by many as the musical director of Bounty Killer’s “Alliance” talent pool, Serani also crafted the lead phrase on Sean Paul's Billboard smash, "We Be Burning," as well as on singles such as Tony Matterhorn's anthemic "Dutty Wine," Busy Signal's "These Are the Days," Bugle's breakout hit "Exercise," Elephant Man's "Willie Bounce," and Mavado's international hit "Dying," the first track on which he also featured as an Artiste; It is Serani's voice bawling "Dying" throughout the song, which earned him attention for his vocals, instead of his dexterity as a composer. He also appeared alongside Mavado in the acclaimed vid

Also instrumental in the careers of Mavado, Alaine and Bugle, Serani continually demonstrates his passion for nurturing young artists. That passion and energy is now being channeled into launching his own solo career as a singer.

Current Dancehall bubbler "Don't!" features Serani and his protege Bugle, and is getting huge response in Dancehalls across Jamaica It is already one of the biggest tracks in Kingston - the Dancehall capitol of the world. Ace video director Julia Braham is set to get behind the lens and shoot the video for "Don't" very soon. The track, of course, is produced by Serani.

Serani is now busy constructing his debut album, focusing on the raunchy "She Loves Me" as the next single which Serani is hoping will blow up internationally. "It’s a fun track," says Serani. "A topic everyone can relate to. We have a clean version and a very, very raw version, we will leave it to the public to decide which one they prefer!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Serani">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.