There are two artists with this name;

1.
While working on the next shout out louds album, front man and lead singer Adam Olenius has formed a pop duo with Markus Krunegård called We Are Serenades.

2.
Serenades is an Italian band, formed in 1995 in Catania, Sicily, which plays death doom metal with gothic metal influences.

SERENADES start as a solo project, a one man band personify by Valerio Capsoni, who creates at the end of 1995 two songs, "The Silent Beauty" and "Your Winter Garden". In January 1996 these songs become "THE SILENT BEAUTY" Demo. At this time the monicker is SERENADE, but in Scotland there is a band with the same name, so the monicker changes and become SERENADES. The style is much Gothic-oriented, in line with the british scene.

In September of the same year, SERENADES sign a deal with the new label Elegy Records, and in December Valerio Capsoni gives form to one of the most important gothic-doom albums ever produced in Italy: "THE AGE OF PURITY". Seven songs of very awesome death-doom, really appreciated by this type of fans and not only. The album exit (1997) obtains a considerable success during the years in the underground scene in Europe and in the rest of the world, specially among Anathema, My Dying Bride and Paradise Lost fans.

After three years, always for Elegy Records, Valerio Capsoni carries out the second SERENADES album: "IONIA". Eight songs which constitute the evolution in a more direct form of dark feeling pulsating in SERENADES music, in a cross between Katatonia and Depeche Mode. This album is very different from the debut, and sounds very cynic and depressive. An electronical side project, "LEAVEINSILENCE", follows the exit of the album. Six instrumental tracks, in a much experimental mix between electro dub and trance.

After some years of silence, and a "THE AGE OF PURITY" reissue (CD Maximum-2003) for the russian market, Valerio Capsoni decides to dedicate “FATHER”(2009) to his father Cesare Capsoni, first SERENADES fan, and to all those who loved SERENADES during the years.
 After one year Felis Catus (MENDES) enter in SERENADES line up. “THE LIGHT INSIDE” (2010) and "JOY OF DECAY" EP (2010) follow this meeting. 
The new album “A SECOND REDEMPTION” (2011) it’s the result of the first tout court collaboration between Valerio Capsoni and Felis Catus.


You can find a review of "The age of purity" at http://www.ancientspirit.de/reviews/cdreview/s/serenad1.htm ( in german ).  


Band's site <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Serenades">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.