Formed in 2005 Serenity Dies is a thrash metal band from Maldives. The tropical island nation in the Indian sub-continent is nothing but a nature’s tranquil setting in the eye of every vacationer. Yet Serenity Dies appeared in the dark side of paradise. With the influence of bands such as Megadeth, Metallica,and Slayer,the band came up with their own materials, releasing their debut album in 2006. "Murder" was well accepted and the band seized a huge support in the local and regional metal scene. With the release, the band geared up to perform in all major festivals held in Maldives and in the South Asian region.With their raging music and stunning performances, the crowd paid the band with homage, showing true dedication to their music.

After coming out huge in their own county, the band headed to work with Children of Bodoms Producer Anssi Kippo as the production and mixing engineer at Astia Studios in Finland, alongside Grammy Award winning Hollywood mastering engineer Gavin Lurssen (Slumdog Millionaire, Across the Universe, Iron Man, Guns ‘N’ Roses, Rob Zombie and Alice Cooper) who helped Serenity Dies produce materials, to out-do their last record. Setting a standard to emerge in the global
heavy metal scene.

On 15th of July The EP titled “Hacksawcrasy” was released in all major outlets. With the release the bands vocalist/bassist Chuck and guitarist Xiao decided to leave the band for personal reasons. The
other remaining members, Fai and Chippe decided that they need not stop and move forward with more power. They called in Addo (ex- Fasylive) as the new bassist and Jared MacEachern (ex-Sanctity) replacing Chuck and Xiao with vocals and rhythm guitar. With the new lineup change Serenity Dies regained its drive to take Maldivian Heavy Metal to the global masses. Addo has been a prominent figure rocking the Maldivian music fans until he left Fasylive. Jared has been ass kicking the global metal maniacs until he left Sanctity. And now he rises to do more been the new front man of the band. Addo and Jared are the new add-ons in concord, powering Serenity Dies alongside Chippe and Fai.

Myspace
http://www.myspace.com/serenitydies <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Serenity+Dies">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.