There are several artists named Serenity: 1) A power progressive metal band from Austria. 2) A traditional doom metal band from the UK. 3) A gothic doom metal band from Romania. 4) A psychedelic folk rock band from New Zealand. 5) A metalcore band from San Diego, California.

1) Serenity is a progressive power metal band from Austria. They have released two demos - Starseed V.R. and Engraved Within, and have also recorded a tribute to Rage. In 2007 they joined the Austrian metal label Napalm Records which brought their first full-length album Words Untold & Dreams Unlived to life. The band's second full-length album, Fallen Sanctuary, was released on August 29, 2008. Third shot Death & Legacy was released on February 25th, 2011. The latest album to date is War of Ages, released on March 22nd, 2013.

2) Serenity is a traditional doom metal  band formed in Bradford, England, UK in 1994. They recorded their first demo at the local Inner City Studio, featuring three tracks. This was sufficient to land the group a deal with Holy Records through whom they issued their debut album Then Came Silence in 1995. A handful of live appearances raised the band's profile and in the summer of 1996 Serenity recorded their second album Breathing Demons, which proved to be their final release, the band breaking up on the eve of a UK tour. Members of Serenity went on to form Khang and later Lazarus Blackstar.

3) Serenity was a gothic doom metal band from Bucharest, Romania. The band was previously known as Hovercraft and released a demo tape titled "An Inquiry Into the Essence" in 1995. In 1997 they changed their name to Serenity, and in 1998 they released the full-length album The Name. The group split up around 2000 and reformed in 2005 before splitting up again in 2006.

4) Serenity is a psychedelic folk / folk rock band formed in Christchurch, New Zealand in 1972.

5) Serenity is a metalcore/hardcore punk, from San Diego, California, formerly known as Final Path. They currently have released a solo EP, In The Way Of Salvation, and a split EP with metalcore bands Mvrmvr and Buriedbutstillbreathing, Ephemeral Certainty. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Serenity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.