Sergey Lazarev (Russian Cyrillic: Сергей Лазарев, born on 1st April 1983, in Moscow, Russia) is a Russian pop singer, actor and a former member of the pop band Smash!!. 

He started his career before the age of 10 singing in Loktev’s children choir. From this point on, music has never stopped being the most important thing in his life. When he was 14, he was already receiving his first music awards. At that time, he won several children’s song contests, and ended up in the very popular band Neposedi, the same band where Julia and Lena of t.A.T.u. met each other. In 2000, Lazarev entered Moscow’s famous MKHAT theatre school, from which he graduated in 2004. While he was a student, he started playing main roles in Pushkinski Theatre’s “Romeo and Juliet” and “Karamazov Brothers”. At the same time, together with his childhood friend Vlad Topalov, he started a boy-duet Smash!!, that shortly after was signed by Universal Music Russia and became one of the Russian pop-wonders in 2002-2003. Five #1 hits, numerous awards and millions of copies sold in Russia, CIS and Southeast Asia was a result of the short duet’s career - the boys split up in 2004, only one week after the release of their second album. 

Lazarev began recording his first solo album in 2005, at the time when he also returned to theatre, which he left in 2003 because of the band’s packed schedule. Together with the British producer Brain Rawling, he recorded most of the songs for his debut album “Don’t Be Fake”, which was released in November 2005 and which was instantly sold in more than 300 000 copies in Russia alone. As for theatre, his role in the Broadway-style musical comedy “Borrow a Tenor” brought him five professional theatre awards, making the play biggest success of the 2005 theatre season. In May 2006, Lazarev received the Russian national music TV channel MUZ TV's award as the Best New Act. The 4th single from his first solo album, “Fake”, was played in clubs in the UK, debuting on 30th July at #28 on Commercial Music Club Chart in Music Week.

His second album, "TV Show", was released in 2007, and his third album, "Electric Touch", was released in 2010.

In 2008, Lazarev took part in the Russian national preselection for Eurovision Song Contest with the song "Flyer (Under Fire)". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Sergey+Lazarev">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.