There are at-least two artists named Serious:

1. Hip Hop Artist from Philly.

2. Rock act originating from the Netherlands with a renewing sound that may best be
described as ‘cinematic rock with an industrial twist. The combination of rough-edged double barrel guitar parts and a strong sense for melody in the vocals all adds up to their unique sound: fierce yet gentle - raw but polished. The songs have a head and a tale that make this band very accessible to a broad audience. The band thereby is a logical European answer to international renowned bands like R3D, Breakin Benjamin, Skillet and Shinedown. On March 13th 2014, SeriouS have released their debut album -AWARE- on the MMR label (Mass Multiverse Records). The album was mixed and mastered by Oscar Holleman, acclaimed producer/engineer/mixer for Within Temptation, Ayreon, Gorefest, Epica and Kovacs a.o. The bonus track on the album is a makeover of Depeche Mode's 'People are people' and done in the style that illustrates the SeriouS-signature for any of the songs on the album. The soundscapes and keyboards on the debut album were all performed by Joost van den Broek, known from After Forever and nowadays producer for Epica, Stream of Passion, Nemesea, ReVamp and My Propane. SeriouS has become known for their strong live show that has international grandeur. By launching two video clips to accompany the album tracks ‘ Circle of lies’ and ‘As I Am’, the band has put itself on the map, generating over 60.000 views in a short time. As a result the band got articles, interviews and good reviews in newspapers, magazines and international webzines like Bravewords.com/Blabbermouth.net and even won an international rock award in Aruba. The week after -AWARE- was released on february 13th in the BeNeLux it entered the iTunes Rock Chart at #7 and got a well deserved 8.5 (out of 10) rating at Hollands biggest Rock and Metal magazine Aardschok This Fall they will be out on stage with Three Days Grace and Skillet, telling everyone it's time to get SeriouS... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SeriouS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.