SERIS. With every wave of sound they resonate, there exists an unspoken promise to defy the conventional standards of today’s music while creating an emotional cadence sure to linger long after the rhythms have stopped. Enthralled by the notion of discounting the status-quo, Seris vows to create a sound which breaks from the monotony of the overheard, underwhelming songs of the moment, and instead embraces the endless horizon of the unexplored. Seris has established these infinite possibilities to be their playground.

Taking elements of dark and artistic progressive rock and adding a very deliberate odd-time metal feel serves as their musical foundation. Fusing this progressive edge with a powerful and haunting female voice distinctly separates this unique ensemble from the rest. The result of this combination is a modern style of metal whose musicality and technicality blend seamlessly into a focused and emotionally-provocative sound not yet heard on any terrestrial radio station.

Very evident on their 3 song self-titled demo, Seris takes a departure from the standard metal approach in a dynamic and exceptional way. Starting off with the powerful and edgy, though quite accessible hit “Residence,” Seris’ commanding and beautiful vocals are supported by a dark and driving melodic form. Followed by the energetic and odd-timed makings of “And Fury”, the demo keeps any curious listener nothing less than absorbed in the pure musical wonderment. “Tamasisk”, the staccato-minded concluding track on the disk, demonstrates the band’s technical poly-metric prowess while exploiting their capacity to always respect musicality.

Seris’ exodus from the conventions of rock and metal has split the tides in an ocean of music that all sounds too familiar. Their conviction and fortitude only cements their journey along the path laid out before them. With an affirmation to defy the status quo, the potentials of this band are truly immeasurable.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.