Serpenthia is a six-piece darkened atmospheric metal band from Joensuu, Finland. 
Line-up is at the moment Astraal - Bass, Damriel - Vocals and lyrics, Khaon - Guitars and music, Morgarath - Guitars, Xephalien - Drums and Sk - Keys.

The band originally formed in Joensuu, Finland by Damriel(Guitars and vocals) and Khaon(Drums)in the spring 2000 and the music was in different form than today. 

Serpenthia found it's current style 2001, greatly inspired by more atmospheric bands. At that same year they got a new member, Radek. In the fall another member made his first appearance. Carnath was included into the band.  At that time the band got it's name,Serpenthia. 

2002 Adunachor joined the band as a bass player. They recorded their first song "Maidens' monody" at Pielisjoki's school under guidance of Jukka "Juki" Lehikoinen. On that autumn Mortum joined Serpenthia as a supporting guitarist. Late year 2002 Serpenthia began to plan a full-length-three-song demo. And Radek changed his name to Tregal for some reasons not that important.

The demo titled "Debris of Sanctity" was supposed to see the daylight on spring but because of financial problems the recording had to cancel. However, Serpenthia played their first gig that very spring and the gig was recorded and released as a live demo, entitled "Thy Divinity." Later on that autumn Serpenthia played two gigs. An idea for a new demo rouse and Serpenthia began to plan a demo, which would be recorded and released on spring or early summer 2004.

Serpenthia began to record demo titled "Of Descent and Betrayal" with the guidance of Vellu "Ogre" Kuronen in March. Mortum ended his career in Serpenthia. Morgarath joined the band replace Mortum and demo "Of Descent..." was released in september. 

Spring 2005 Serpenthia joined forces with Ogre Kuronen and began to record "ReAnimated Absurdity". After several problems and frustrating set backs the demo was released almost a year late, on spring 2006. On fall 2006 Serpenthia did a minitour called Pyro Tour with Heresia and The Brownies in North Karelia which consisted 7 shows. Unexpectedly just as the tour ended, Carnath, Adunachor and Tregal decided to leave the band. However, this did not affect the plans for a new demo, as Tregal promised to play drums for old times sake.

And once again, Serpenthia entered the studio with Ogre Kuronen to record "Let There Be Silence" but this time as three-piece supported by their ex-drummer. The recordings, for the first time, went well and the demo was scheduled to be released later that year. New member made her appearance that fall, as a replacer for Carnath. However, Serpenthia's line-up was not complited until fall August 2008. 

Serpenthia entered the studio once again on spring 2009 with new line-up including bassist Astraal and drummer Xephalien. Yet again problems played a huge part recording and mixing the fourth demo "Sindicate" and it was released July 2010. 
After releasing the demo band now focuses in getting more attention in the local medias and pursuing the recording deal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Serpenthia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.