Melodic death metal from Poland.

Band History

The band was founded in 1996/1997 by Ivy - bass, Chriser - guitar and Seba - drums. In 2000, after several line-up changes the band recorded their first MCD entitled "...and the Angels Descended to Earth". Musicians who took part in the recording session were: Crow - vocals (ex-Cold Passion), Chriser - guitar, Sworn - guitar, Ivy - bass, Trichiasis (Asgaard) - synthetizers, Xen - drums.

After the recording Xen left the band and his place was taken by Phoenix (Cold Passion). This was also the line-up for first Serpentia gigs (with e.g. Vader, Parricide, Whorehouse, Thy Disease). "...and the Angels Descended to Earth" was a great example of what Serpentia could offer - technically excellent material, constantly surprising with its variety and creativity. The vocalist's skills were also appreciated by the press - his vocals range from growling and death metal scream to whisper. The voice of the opera artist Izabela Szota appears in two pieces ("The Shepherd of Comets" and "Prayer for the Dying"). Soon the band started to play gigs promoting "...and the Angels Descended to Earth" (Hell Fest, Metal Party and more). After series of concerts the work on the new album started. The album was recorded and produced in Jarek Baran's Jaro Home Studio (Delight, Thy Disease, Anal Stench). Cover artwork was designed by a young artist Mikashigaru. The lyrics on "Dark Fields of Pain" tell of physical suffering and mental decay. The album was very well received by the metal fans. The band played a couple of gigs in Poland, took part in The Lost Killing Tour, they were also invited to play in England for the first time! After live promotion of D.F.O.P. there came the time for a new album. "Nails Enigma" brought many changes - music became even more brutal and new vocal solutions appeared (Chriser took over all the vocals, as Panzerfaust decided to stay in England).

Lyrics-wise, the album is the ending of the trilogy - the story of a detective who investigates Nails Enigma case. To solve it, he has to go back in time to the events that took place 1 year before, on Dark Fields of Pain. Everything circles around mysterious murders committed on children… If he manages to solve the Nails Enigma he may be able to understand the probability of suffering. The material was recorded at Underground Studio and engineered by Krzysztof Pochopien.

In October 2007 changed name to Painfields.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Serpentia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.