Members: 
Bachinela - Drums
Sonoy - Guitars
Mission - Guitars
Aldaba - Vocals
Salarda - Bass, Vocals

http://www.myspace.com/servorum
http://metal-chondriac.blogspot.com/search?q=servorum


SERVORUM was formed in the year 1998 when the dissolution of two metal bands (Eutopia-Thrashmetal and Servorum- Blackmetal) come the creation of an Extreme Metal Band. Aldaba and Bachinela’s Thrashmetal Band split up due to lack of members and Sonoy and Salarda’s Blackmetal Band suffer with the same fate. The disastrous occurrence was not an obstruction for the foursome to discontinue their mayhemic assault that even death itself stands their way. Both bands are brothers in metal. It was an alcohol gathering when Salarda and Aldaba agreed to continue the assault of SERVORUM together, this time new force of SERVORUM will discharged a new breed of sound combining the different elements of underground metal. Listening to Brazilian Deathmetal God “Krisiun” inspired them to form an annihilating brutal band. An Extreme Metal band from the Philippines based in Bacolod City and highly influenced by the thrash, black and deathmetal, a mixture of un-imaginable underground metal hymn. 

In mid 2003 the band started generating their original compositions. On 2006 they’ve successfully released their first demo entitled “We Are Brutality”, unleashing a great impact every time the band performs live in every local gig because of its speed, brutality and darkened atmosphere. Bachinela’s drum piece is tremendous that can blow every metal hordes mentality and the explosive creation of Salarda’s torturous riffing conception. 

Since their creation up to the present, the band marched and slaughtered the Filipino Metal Scene touring from Iloilo, Dumaguete, Bacolod, Cebu, Davao and even in the Northern Regions of the Philippines (Manila), ruthlessly crushing every horde’s imagination. 

Past Members:
Agustin - Drums
Sapul - Guitars
Benedicto - Guitars
Cordova - Guitars
Alonzo - Guitars
Gariando - Guitars <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Servorum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.