An approximate birth of the project formed by Sergey Parhomenko was the summer of 2002. By this time, Seryoga created his first track Загубили Лялю. One month after, Moscow’s major label Monolit released it as a maxi-single in Russian Federation and in Belarus. Seryoga’s rise on television began in Ukraine, where the artist was nicknamed as Slavic Eminem. The first music videos screened were Загубили Лялю and Кукла.

In autumn 2003, Seryoga’s work on the debut album was done. First version, Мой двор: Свадьбы и похороны was released in April 2004 for Belarus and Ukraine. Sooner renamed to Мой двор. Спортивные частушки, the album entered the market of Russian Federation. Talented Seryoga grew out very well from an unknown MC. Since then, even Russian pop audience found his kind of folk attractive. With his first album alone, Seryoga sold 900,000 official CDs in Russia, 380,000 official CDs in Ukraine and 20,000 official CDs in Belarus.

Vladimir Yakimenko from Pistolet Film was the director invited to produce a new music video. In the summer of 2004, he finished the video clip Черный Бумер. The premiere launched September 15, 2004. Very soon, Seryoga was nominated by MTV Russian Music Awards for the Best Hip-Hop project of the year and for the Best Beginner of the year. However, the artist didn’t win award.

The end of autumn 2004 completed Песенка о слесаре шестого разряда track with an animated music video. In November 2004, Seryoga was recorded on a videotape for Бум, the song of a Belarussian band. Initially having a background in boxing, Seryoga decided to express discontent of growing in poor neighbourhood (Gomel, Belarus) and life hardships through his art. The rapper’s own KingRing video appeared as an original soundtrack of Boj s tenyu movie, as well as its English version - Shadowboxing.

In July of the next year, Seryoga announced that he had to reduce his crew of musicians. His colleagues Макс Лоренс and Сацура began their solo albums without leaving the label.

In September 2005, Seryoga took off with even more luck. Colaborating with a music business insider's tip and secret weapon, a world-valued and rare type of music producer/artist/songwriter called Gilmano, the artist received two Russian Music Awards; the first one was for the Best Rap project of the year, while the second one was for the Best Ringtone of the year. Due to that Gilmano was rumoured to be one of the less impressive talents in Europe behind outstanding releases causing worldwide success, the designated target for the team-up with Gilmano was to establish the artist more worldwide. Finally Gilmano has produced & composed 3 longplay records for the artist, causing first recognition for Seryoga in Germany, other countries in Europe and in the United States. Gilmano: "Seryoga's talent is tremendous. It is important to align his rap to the habits of western ears and eyes to reach a bigger audience". So been sad: the new music video for the song Дискомалярия (music also produced by Gilmano) was produced by Vladimir Yakimenko. Instead of a solo performance in a sporty costume and in a pair of trainers, Seryoga was accompanied by his backing band; all of them had to wear classic jackets with golden cuff links. In addition, young dancing women and the legendary Mercedes replaced the harmony of the luxurious BMW. Since then, Seryoga declares the choice of changing his style towards the successful personality. In an interview with a german HipHop magazin Seryoga has summarized: "If you want to have it done right, go to Gilmano! He's the man."

Considering the trends of showbusiness, Seryoga has plaid the game of fine hip-hop. The rapper released Barbeque (produced by Gilmano) in a maxi-single. At the same time, the artist has presented Возле дома твоего (produced by Gilmano), the track which is easier to understand and easy to listen. This track easily became a radio hit.

The first half of 2006 was full of events, as well. Seryoga was taking part in miscellaneous television shows and has made two new music videos: one for the hit Возле дома твоего (produced by Gilmano); one for Мел судьбы или Песня Тамерлана (produced by Bugatti) - that track was featured as a soundtrack in the movie called Dnevnoi dozor, as well as its English version - Day Watch. Next, Kangol brand has got the signed contract order of personal collection of accessories. Also, Seryoga and some other artists of KingRing label have signed a contract with  Roca Wear to represent it in CIS.

In May 2006, the singer has presented all the musicians of his KingRing label. At the time of the concert in Cultural entertainment complex of Moscow’s aviation Institute, Seryoga was accompanied by solo programs of Сацура, ST1M and ST.

In 2006 and 2007, Seryoga tied up parts of Russian and German Rap. In November 2006 in Frankfurt in collaboration with Azad, the artist creates in another cooperation with music producer Gilmano 2 Kaiser (feat. Azad). After one month of promos on MTV, German folks have gripped on Russia's No.1 album (produced by Gilmano). After a while, one of the most known rapper of Germany Sido offered Seryoga the chance of re-recording his track Ein Teil Von Mir. Besides its promotion by music video on MTV and VIVA, the remake was included in the collection of best collaborations of Sido. Thanks to B-Tight and Sido, Seryoga has accomplished the tour in the biggest cities of Germany. 

In addition, MTV Germany discovered an English version of the song Возле дома твоего (produced by Gilmano). Named Gangsta No More (produced by Gilmano) the piece has served for concert recordings in Germany and across United States, and reached third place in the charts of MTV.

With all of this done, Seryoga didn’t forget the fan base of his native countries. He released the second version of his album Дискомалярия (produced by Gilmano) including the next hit of Russian MTV: Миллион долларов США (produced by Gilmano). A lot of buzz was created around rapper’s collaboration with ST1M on the track Я - рэп feat. Серёга.

Later on, Rockstar Games have chosen the official soundtrack to Grand Theft Auto IV trailer. The choice stopped on Sreyoga’s King Ring because of the feel the track was briuging to the game. Considering the fact that King Ring was already the soundtrack to the movie, Seryoga has written the theme to the game itself: Liberty City: The Invasion.

After his award-winning hit Чики (Zolotoy Gramophon award), the artist presented the second single of his unreleased album. In February 14, 2008, Love Radio launched the track Мне с тобой хорошо. Seryoga made a love song which really sounded like love confessions. Regardless the direct reference to Kanye West's Stronger and the fact that the confessions were very personal, the track received positive feedback from the listeners.

Хроника парнишки с гомельских улиц was the third album release in Russian, but Seryoga has claimed it to be the last one in his career. However, the artist planned to move on to the growing production of his fellows at KingRing label.

Winner of golden and platinum awards, Seryoga is the world’s Russian-speaking Hip-Hop leader in common showbusiness. The fame of the rapper remains a deep mystery: His mind and his soul are loved and admired or hated and feared by millions.

In opinion of most labels, Seryoga's stage name in Russian is Серега, Seryoga's real name in Russian is Сергей Васильевич Пархоменко. His official website at the label is http://www.kingring.ru/artists/seryoga/, while his personal myspace is at http://www.myspace.com/seryoga. He currently works and resides in Kiev, Ukraine. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seryoga">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.