There are multiple artists under the name Seth.

1) Seth is a Black Metal band from Bordeaux

After a demo tape titled "Apocalyptic Desires" and a MCD titled "By Fire, Power Shall Be...", Seth's first album "Les blessures de l'âme", released in 1998 on Season of Mist, received very promising reviews from the press.
The band signed a contract with Osmose Productions and released their second album "The Excellence" in 2000. Uphold by collaborations such as Fenriz (Darkthrone) and the electronic band Total Eclipse, Seth combined very different influences into extreme metal music. Shortly after the band appeared on French TV music shows and shot a video clip for the French MTV channel "MCM". Seth was also invited to take part of the "Tribute to Mayhem" compilation on Avantgarde Music along with bands such as: Immortal, Behemoth, Dark Funeral.
In 2002, the band recorded their third album "Divine X" at Excess Studio in Rotterdam (Sinister, Elegy, After Forever, Epica) again on Osmose Productions. That release showed their ability to mix both dark atmospheres and brutality. The album received positive reviews in magazines like Mindview and Grindzone.
In December 2003 the band entered again Excess Studio with a revised line up, featuring new inputs Cyriex and Black Messiah, to record their album "Era Decay".


2) Seth is a Japanese screamo/emotive hardcore band. They released their first album "イツノ日カ殺人兵器ノナイ丸イ世界ニナリマスヨウニ" (Itsu no hi ka satsujin heiki no nai marui sekai ni narimasu you ni) on the Weed Which Grows label.

3) SETH is a New York based experimental duo consisting of producer Gobby and vocalist Jamie Krasner. They released the mini album "This is True (Sunseth)" on 1080p in 2015.

4) Seth is an IDM / Freakbeat artist from USA, released a net release album "Unfortunate Brain Chemistry" at Brainscream.com (an extinct netlabel).

5) Seth is a drum and bass DJ from Czech Republic.

6) Seth is a guitarist having released their EP "Escape" in August 2022 on youtube. 
(https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdrpIz04p2B-Vkup-snMSoA) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.