Settima Draconis was formed by Erik Vansaren in the summer of 2004 in Rome, Italy. The band
originally formed in Milan in the spring of 2001. The intention and direction of Settima Draconis
was to improve the music scene with its roots of Goth Metal and captivating blend of classical
elements from other metal genres. The actual timeline of the band can be separated into three different time frames.

The initial project included a complete lineup of musicians. The second was made up of a group of
individuals who were interested only in playing for fun and enjoyment with no clear cut goals for
the bands future. Then in October of 2011 the project was relocated to Berlin,Germany and the
music was transformed into a style of Melodic Death Metal with Goth Metal influences.

During the second time period all the old material was disregarded. Erik Vansaren took charge
and Settima Draconis then moved forward. Vansaren the lead vocalist was responsible for the
intense lyrical content and also wrote the drum scores. Marco the lead guitarist was responsible
for writing the hauntingly beautiful guitar pieces through the supervision of Vansaren. Judith the
female vocalist wrote her own lyrical pieces and her voice was an instrument in itself by blending
emotions and captivating the listener. Three additional members also joined the project as shift
workers, Francesco on guitar, leading to the rearrangement of partial guitar pieces with lead
vocalist Vansaren. With members Livio on bass and Frederico on drums.

The guitar and male vocals were done in Rome at Legend Studios. The drums were recorded in
Genova in the private studio of Federico Beltrame. The female vocals and the final mixing and
mastering were completed in Giampiero Ulacco's studio in Rome.
The bands demo cd titled "Vengeance" received notable positive and discrete feedbacks from
the following web publications: Metal.de, Spiritofmetal, Femmemetalwebzine and Stormbringer.

In the summer of 2011 the founder and lead vocalist for the project Erik Vansaren began and
completed his writing new material independently with much devotion, guitars, bass, drums and
all orchestration and arrangements.
Due to the lack of permanent members and the urge to publish these musical pieces, in the fall
of 2011 he revised the scores, converting them to orchestra. The talented composer
restructured the arrangement and added additional pieces with intentions to publish and promote
his creative works as music composer.

Unfortunately, the album did not meet the scheduled release and for personal reasons, Vansaren
relocated first to the Netherlands and finally to Berlin, Germany where he currently resides.
During the late spring of 2013, Vansaren has taken the new album material and rewritten this
album from orchestra score to guitars/bass/drum score with his own composing skills and
captivating style and released the album on October 31, 2013.
"Legio" is receiving several positive reviews around the world.
. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Settima+Draconis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.