Forming in 2007, Leeds, UK-based all female quintet Severed Heaven expertly combine elements of death, doom and black metal, all executed with a power and passion largely absent in the male-dominated metal genre. Spine-tingling guitar harmonies are interwoven with crushingly brutal passages, all capped off with ferocious, feral vocals and the band's own brand of 'chug'.

Initially consisting of Lauren 'Satanica' Price (vocals), Leanne Warren (guitars), Vanessa Murray (guitars), Charlotte Bleasdale (bass) and Anna Stewart (drums), Severed Heaven released their debut, self-titled EP. Well received, the release helped to spread the word and the band soon found themselves gigging regularly. An early sign of their increasing notoriety came when they appeared on the BBC show 'Singing With The Enemy', alongside London 'cock rock' band Lethal Fixx.

With the band's gigging schedule getting busier and covering the length and breadth of the country, the next couple of years saw them share stages with the likes of Gallhammer, Gorgoroth, Hecate Enthroned, Sworn Enemy, Hate, Shining and Nemhain, as well as appearing at the Dames Of Darkness festival. Better yet, the band earned a headlining slot on the unsigned stage at Bloodstock Open Air in 2009, and met the occasion with a stellar performance.

In 2010, Severed Heaven's debut full length album, 'Incessant Darkness', was released to excellent critical acclaim, earning a 9/10 review from Queens Of Steel. The album consists of several blistering new tracks, as well as heavier re-recordings of some of the band's earlier material. Following the release of the album, Anna left Severed Heaven's ranks and was replaced by Hayley Morgan (Torture Garden, Daear, Forest Perversions). 2011 was another busy gigging year for the band, and August brought a second lineup change, with Lena Abé (My Dying Bride) replacing Vanessa.

2012 will see a newly revitalised Severed Heaven unleash their second full length album - which is currently being worked on - as well as a typically hectic gigging schedule, as the band continue their relentless mission for world domination!

Severed Heaven CDs and merch can be purchased online at http://www.severedheaven.bigcartel.com/
'Incessant Darkness' can also be downloaded at iTunes, Amazon MP3 and Spotify.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Severed+Heaven">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.