There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Severance is a death metal band from TEXAS, USA. They formed in 1989.

2) A Gothic Rock band from  Monterrey, Mexico  who has been active since 2013. Previously under the moniker "The Six Six Sixers"

1) Since its conception in May of 1989, SEVERANCE has been feeding the metal underground scene with its brand of aggressive music and, to this day, continues its journey through the extreme. The later part of 1991 marked the release of their five-song demo 'Afterbirth of Infamy'.

After several months of promoting this release, Drowned Productions, now known as REPULSE RECORDS, approached the band to do a 7'EP in 1992. This two-song vinyl release, titled 'Abysmal Ascent', got quite a bit of attention in the underground scene and gained SEVERANCE the worldwide recognition they were striving for.

Just as things started to look promising, obstacles confronted SEVERANCE that forced a lenghty standstill. For the next 4 years, the band underwent several line-up changes that altered the band from progressing any further.

During these 4 years of struggling to keep the band alive, SEVERANCE was busy doing interviews with magazines from every part of the globe, appearing on radio programs in over 10 different countries and answering hundreds of letters from supporters. The band continued to write music and rehearse even though a solid line-up had yet to be established.

In 1996, SEVERANCE released a self-financed CD entitled 'Salvation Denied', that gave a re-birth to a new era for SEVERANCE. After having sold hundreds of copies, the band had regained the support and following of the underground scene.

In 2001 SEVERANCE released their full-length CD entitled 'What Lies Ahead' with WWIII records. It featured a bonus track that was to apprear on a DWELL RECORDS COMPILATION but never came to fruition. This album was later RE-RELEASED (2005) by BURNING DOGMA & SEVARED RECORDS with Salvation Denied EP as a bonus. 

In 2005 GOREGIASTIC RECORDS released SEVERANCE's second full-length CD entitled 'SUFFERING IN HUMANITY.' This was the final album recorded with co-founder and long time friend Ralph Gutierrez, and second vocalist 'Joe Vasquez.'  Joining the lineup for this record was new vocalist 'Mike Mena' and new guitarist / long-time fan Jose Daniel De La Rosa. An intrumental piece was written with the addition of a celloist. This was the first time that outside musicians colaborated with recording, showing the versitile side of this technical deathmetal band.

In 2006 BURNING DOGMA AND SEVARED RECORDS teamed up again to release 'PROGRESSION TOWARDS PURGATORY', a much desired CD format of Severance's early rare-release era that was until then only available on cassette and vinyl. A new intro, written by now solo guitarist, and a demo track off the upcoming release was included as an opener. Cover art was made by 'Torch' as was the previous release.

In 2011 the much anticipated release off of SEVARED RECORDS (who recently aquired Goregiastic Records) entitled 'THE TRUTH IN QUESTION' came to fruition. Considered one of SEVERNACE's best released by many of the newer fans, 'THE TRUTH IN QUESTION' features now solo guitarist, Jose Daniel De La Rosa, Mike Mena, Abiel Barrera, and founder Jaime Perez. Sound production for this release is the best to date and the intensity has become focused and tight. This album also celebrates SEVERANCE as one of TEXAS FIRST GENERATION OF DEATH METAL; 22 years of brutality. This album ALSO celebrates the return of legendary Canadian artist, S.V.BELL in the form of the new cover art. He previously did cover art for Kataklysm,Amorphis, and more.

Visit the official site at www.severancemetal.com for more information

2) SEVERANCE is a gothic rock band out of Monterrey, Mexico that is strongly influenced by dark 80s Post-Punk and New Wave but with a distinctive quality all their own. Their sound has been shaped by the likes of Sisters of Mercy, The Mission and Fields of the Nephilim, but also Iggy Pop, Type O and formative influences in street-punk and hardcore. They have been putting out material since 2013 and have had a nice following in Latin America. Their first single “New Cult” (off the debut album, THRESHOLDS) was heard and well-received worldwide within just a couple weeks after inclusion in a Spanish goth compilation and numerous international radio show podcasts. As well, it received praise from noted musicians of the second wave of Goth Rock. With evocative lyrics, intricate and powerful vocals and guitar, potent bass and drums, and subtle and explosive dynamics, their songs are unique dark rock with an evident edge. The members—Rul Delirio (vox, lyrics, guitar), Carlo Vargas (guitar), Hugo Alfredo Guerrero (bass) and Marco Soma (drums)— are very excited about this debut album coming out on Deepland Records, February 2017. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Severance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.