By Gordon Laws - FHM Journalist

The real deal, folks. That what four-piece, UK metal powerhouse Seven Year Kismet bring. And they’re about to bring a whole lot more of it in the form of their highly anticipated new album, set for imminent release. This press release serves to prepare – and to forewarn – the entire universe of an impending musical cataclysm. 
Furious riffs, heaviness to strike fear into the hearts of titans and thunderous metal grooves approach. Hard and fast. Brace yourself. Make right with your loved ones.

Despite their tender years (the four members of Seven Year Kismet’s average age is a mere 21 years) the band has been slaughtering stages and audiences throughout the UK – and the world – since 2005. And they’ve left an impressive trail of destruction and devastation in their wake.

“They came to our country, murdered our people and left us beaten and broken,” says prominent South African music journalist, Gordon Laws (mojodojo.co.za and FHM Magazine South Africa) of SYK’s two recent headline tours to the African Continent. “And we’re dying for them to return. These kids have got it all; righteous technicality, blazing riffs, vocals straight from hell and, crucially, they’re genuinely nice dudes. May their rise to dominance be swift, and their reign lengthy...”

Hailing from the small, South England Island of Sheppey, Seven Year Kismet formed in 2005, whilst still in high school. Since then, they’ve made light work of finalising their now-ferocious line-up, perfecting their mighty signature sound, tightening their screws and bringing their malicious blend of thrash, death and generally awesome metal to the world. 
Having played more than 400 live shows, and extensively toured the UK, Europe and the world at large, Seven Year Kismet are finally prepared to release their second full-length album. It’s already generating touring offers to the USA, Canada and Australia.

Seven Year Kismet is Shennon Wellby (bass), Luke Sohn (vocals), Jack Price (guitars) and Joe Ward (drums). The first single from their up-coming album is called Behold The Eve of Ruin. It’s available on Youtube. 

You have been warned. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seven+Year+Kismet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.