Archie Wilson – vocals
H  – guitars
Dave Irving – guitars/keys & backing vocals
Bobby T – bass
Rob Hicks – drums

Classic Rock Magazine ‘Track Of The Day’    Midlands Rocks “Former Panic Cell members sounding awesome!”

Debut single “From this Darkness” FREE download  OUT NOW - Debut music video OUT NOW, coming soon to TV

‘The Allegiance EP’ out February 2012    Tour dates to be announced shortly

Seven Deadly is an evolution, a phoenix rising from the ashes and speedily rising to dizzy heights. Here is a band that’s honed its craft and learnt valuable lessons already at such an early stage in their career with an army of fans already gathered, expecting and eagerly anticipating what’s  to come next......

Melding modern day sound and dynamics with a respectful nod to the classics and throwing in a powerful dosage of imagination, Seven Deadly are a unit hell bent on succeeding with a blitzing blend of thrash, groove and melodic metal .  Bassist Bobby Town is unapologetic in their approach “The fact is we’re taking care of business and we can’t wait to unleash the hounds".

And there is no doubt the hounds will most certainly be unleashed as the band already has an abundance of experience to tap into from past achievements with previous band Panic Cell.  From number  1 music videos, thousands of cds & digital download sales, playing to hundreds of thousands of people worldwide and sharing stages with bands defining our generation (Metallica, Disturbed, Anthrax, Slayer, Alice In Chains, Papa Roach, Megadeth and many more) Seven Deadly already have the proverbial ‘foot in the door’ and sprinting ahead of the ravenous pack nipping at their heels before they have even started.  But the band is one step ahead....

Guitarist H enthuses about the direction Seven Deadly have taken with the new band “We wanted to do something different for this band, something both us & the fans could be involved with right from the start.  From day one we’ve opened up to the people and shown them the end of one band has led to the beginning of another and involved them with everything that goes on within that.  It’s an eye opener for us and them”.  

From the very beginning, Seven Deadly is interacting very closely with their friends (the fans) via social media and soon to be up close and personal events.  New frontman Archie Wilson stresses this is more than just a band, this is an evolution that can’t flourish without the fans “This whole thing started at grassroots level through the closing of one chapter and the start of a brand new one.  Our following has grown daily by word of mouth without any product being released, without anyone knowing what we will be. And now that our debut music and video is out we will strive to be that band the people talk about - Seven Deadly will be the peoples band, one that you will hear about in the media but most importantly in this day n age of social community and family, a band you will discover via your friends”.

With debut tour dates and festivals to be announced, a free debut single (see the band website) and music video already receiving glowing feedback and with an EP soon to be unleashed - the year 2012 is set to be very DEADLY!
www.sevendeadly1.com 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seven+Deadly">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.