There is more than 1 band by this name:

1) SeVeR, based out of Pennsylvania formed in 2003 and quickly became one of the premier heavy metal bands in the state. Evolving into what it is today, consisting of some of the top musicians from Pennsylvania, Virginia, New Jersey and Florida coming together to create a unique sound that is described as an assault of abrasive, yet melodic harmonies that takes listeners on an epic journey to a destination that only time will reveal.

Some of SeVeR’s highlights include: playing countless venues such as CBGB in NYC to Peabody’s in Cleveland OH with bands ranging from Soilwork to Prong. Playing Chrome At The Dome promoted by Killer Koncepts and Discovery Channel’s “Biker Buildoff ”. Also making Q94’s Top 10 CD’s in the state and numerous appearances on Fox 8’s “The Underground” TV show.

SeVeR recorded the latest EP “Amidst The Ashes” at Spider Studios in Strongsville, Ohio with producer Ben Schigel (Chimaira, Walls of Jericho, Misery Signals, Drowning Pool).

SeVeR’s song “Grudge” is in rotation on Music Choice Metal. SeVeR is also a featured artist on the “Soundtrack From Hell” for the documentary film “Behind The Suit And Tie” produced by Energy Music Films.

SeVeR (Official) is:
Alexander Sipp - Vocals
James Lewis - Lead Guitar
Joe Kruczynski - Rhythm Guitar
Paul Butler - Drums
Devin Walsh - Bass

www.myspace.com/2sever

2) Sever is guitar rock band from Poprad (Slovakia). The existence of the band is dated from 2006. Sever it is mean north.

The original lineup consisted of 
Rasťo Dalecký  - lead vocals
Marián Karabin - guitars, keyborads, back voclas
Michal Ilenčík  - guitars, mandoline, back voclas
Jozef Hyben  - bass guitars, back voclas
Tomáš Kvasnička - drums 

3) Sever is an alternative metal/nu-metal group from Germany. Between 2000 and 2006, they released 3 albums under the name: Change of Mind.

4) Sever is an emoviolence/screamo band from Saint Petersburg, Russia. Since 2015 they've released 2 EPs.

https://severband.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sever">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.