Severe Torture is a brutal death metal band from the Netherlands. They formed in 1997. 

In 1998 the band released a demo called "Baptized in Virginal Liquid". After that demo Dennis (vocals) joined the band and in 1999 they recorded a 2-track promo. The promo was released as 7" EP by Damnation Records. They then signed with Fadeless Records which was a big boost as this got them to go on tour. Their first tour of Europe with Damnation (pl). 

Finally it was time to record their debut album "Feasting on Blood". In January 2001, the band hit the European road as support act for Macabre and Broken Hope. This built up the band's fanbase which allowed them to, in April 2001, play at the Ohio Death Fest and a couple more U.S. shows to promote their debut album. 

Then in March 2002 the band recorded their second album "Misanthropic Carnage". This again followed with a promotional tour of their second album. This time they toured with Deeds of Flesh as a support, in the USA.

After a lot of canceled tours Severe Torture decided that it was time to move on to a new label and as a farewell Karmageddon Media released a  live albumcalled "Blood Letting, in 2005, recorded by Tue Madsen (The Haunted) with additional bonus material. A new deal was signed with Earche Records and the new full-length album "Fall of the Despised" released in 2005, which served praise in the underground scene.

The band then begun to record their new album "Sworn Vengeance" in  April 2007, after touring around europe promoting their last. The band then released the album worldwide on the 12th November 2007. After this release the band sort with some tours around europe with bands like Destinity and Dew-Scented. Also, they are appearing on the infamous Neurotic Deathfest, in 2008, along with bands like Suffocation, Napalm Death, Cryptopsy, Behemoth, Dying Fetus, Hate Eternal, Cephalic Carnage, Asphyx and many more.

Official MySpace
Official Bandpage

Boxtel, North Brabant, Netherlands
1997 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Severe+Torture">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.