Singer, Producer, Songwriter & rare Artist Seven Davis Jr was born on April 3 in Houston, Texas. As a child he was raised in Northern California where he trained as a gospel & jazz singer, brought up on the vocal influences of artists such as Prince, Aretha Franklin, Stevie Wonder and Michael Jackson. Other earlier influences include classical artists like Nat King Cole, Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr and Burt Bacharach.

As Seven Davis Jr evolved, his interests navigated him into the mainstream/independent world where he began listening to a more diverse range of artists such as Jimi Hendrix, Portishead, The Fugees, The Beatles, Tricky, Bjork and J Dilla… and later on: Heatwave, Earth Wind & Fire and various Motown artists.

He discovered house and techno while living, and dancing, in San Francisco; for a while, he ghost-produced for rappers, but his own productions, he has said, were deemed too strange.

Seven Davis Jr emerged to debut internationally on Kutmah's Worldwide Family Vol. 2 (Brownswood Recordings) with the track 'Thanks'. Other releases soon followed including, One EP (Must Have Records), The Lost Tapes Vol. 1 (IZWID Records), P.A.R.T.Y EP (Apron Records), and Friends EP (Classic).

From 2012 onward Seven Davis Jr toured worldwide, bringing his combination of live vocals and occasional live instrumentation to musical realms usually occupied by DJs. While Seven Davis Jr is not a DJ, he has since made several dear friends in the DJ community and is now expanding to play concerts & festivals.

Between 2013 and 2016 Seven Davis Jr. released a number of singles and EP's on various labels.

In 2013 he released his first album The Lost Tapes Vol. 1 on IZWID Records. This was followed by his second album Universes on Ninja Tune in 2015. His third album, Live From The Other Side, was released in 2016 on Secret Angels.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seven+Davis+Jr.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.