Formed in 2005, Several Union produce a sound that is in fact a kind of modern metal, but with some serious rock leanings, filled with amazing harmonies and impressive melodies. Inspired by the likes of Stone Sour and Alter Bridge, they produce a sense of arena filling melody, with the rawness of their alternative heroes before them. In these years, Several Union evolved their sound playing tons of live shows, sharing the stage with A Day To Remember, Dillinger Escape Plan, Eyes Set To Kill, Stray From The Path, Vanna, Valient Thorr, Rezophonic, The Fire and more.

Their debut album ‘A Look In The Mirror’ was produced by Riccardo Pasini (Extrema, Slowmotion Apocalypse, Ephel Duath, Figure of Six, etc...), at Studio 73 in Ravenna, Italy. The band signed to Copro Records and released the album on November 24, 2008. The album featured the singles “Waiting For” and the ballad “Resurrection”, which received a good amount of radio plays. In spring 2009, Several Union headlined a 12-date tour in UK, promoting the album in cities such as London, Leeds, Glosgow and Edinburgh. Several Union were also guest on an episode of Backstage Live 2010, an italian music format featuring the best underground acts.

In winter 2011 the band entered the studio for the follow-up to ‘A Look In The Mirror’, working again with producer Riccardo Pasini. Their second studio album, called ‘Awake From The Game’, were recorded and mixed at Studio73 (Ravenna, IT) and mastered by Ted Jensen (Bullet For My Valentine, Linkin Park, Muse, etc...) at Sterling Sound studios (New York, USA). The album contains the smash singles ‘The Game’ and the Aerosmith cover ‘Dream On‘, featuring two great italian artists: Olly Du Demon from the band ‘The Fire’ and Andrea Rock VJ from Virgin Radio and leader of the band ‘Andead’. The eleven songs are a blend of aggressive guitar riffs and acoustic ballads, surrounded by a dark atmosphere expressed through melody and vocal delivery, along with an increased rock attitude.

'Awake From The Game' will be officially out in stores December 13, 2011 distributed by Rude Networks and will be available digitally on iTunes since November 22, 2011.

www.severalunion.it <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Several+Union">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.