Seven Spires was conceived in Boston in 2013 in a bookstore by guitarist Jack Kosto and vocalist Adrienne Cowan. With the additions of old friends Chris Dovas and Peter de Reyna, a complete band was formed. Though young in countenance, the four were armed with highly specialised training from Berklee College of Music, as well as an insatiable drive to earn that which they hungered for.

In their early years, they shared bills with the likes of Arch Enemy, Apocalyptica, Sonata Arctica, Fleshgod Apocalypse, Epica, The Agonist, Butcher Babies, Amaranthe, Kreator, Huntress, Carach Angren, and others. They completely sold out of records, and then ventured to Gate Studios in Wolfsburg, Germany to finish recording their new album with the illustrious Sascha Paeth.

Vocalist Adrienne Cowan won the full academic Lollapalooza-endowed scholarship in ’13 to Berklee, where she focused in Composition and Songwriting. Originally a classically trained pianist, she forged her home in the metal world after seeing Judas Priest at the HMV Apollo theatre. She employs a combination of her classical vocal training and self-taught extreme vocal technique to “deliver every bit of recorded promise live”.

Guitarist Jack Kosto has been a student of neoclassical legend Joe Stump (Holy Hell, Ravenlord, Exorcism) at Berklee since he was accepted at the age of 15, and was originally inspired to learn the art of shred after seeing mentor Michael Angelo Batio (Nitro, Holland) play his hometown. Jack was the youngest of his graduating class from Berklee at just 19 years old. He is proudly endorsed by Dean Guitars, Fishman Pickups, Swiss Picks, Asterope Cables, and JOYO.

Bassist Peter de Reyna won a scholarship to attend Berklee beginning fall 2015. He is frighteningly proficient in jazz, classical, and metal, on both the electric and the upright bass. Peter cites Iron Maiden as his primary influence and draws inspiration from Obscura, Candlemass, Necrophagist, Revocation and Marcus Miller. He is proudly endorsed by Asterope Cables.

Live drummer Chris Dovas also received a scholarship to attend Berklee beginning fall 2016. At barely 17, he won the 2015 Blue Man Group Boston Drum Off competition, as well as attending Berklee’s renown Five-Week Performance Program. Chris’s palate of styles is wildly diverse, including rock, fusion, jazz and latin along with metal.

www.sevenspiresband.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seven+Spires">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.