Seventh Dimension is a progressive metal band, from Stockholm, Sweden. It was founded in 2009. The band was formed by Luca Delle Fave, Marcus Thorén and Rikard Wallström  with heavy influences from progressive rock bands such as Dream Theater, Symphony X, Pain of Salvation, Andromeda among others. The trio spent much time rehersing while looking for a keyboard player and a singer to complete the band. In the meanwhile, Luca Delle Fave started to write music that would later end up on the first album once the band would be completed.

During the end of the year, they found a keyboard player by the name of Andreas Smidelöv, who later left the band after a few months for musical differences. However the band was later completed in late 2010 with the joining of Erik Bauer on keyboards and Nico Lauritsen on vocals.

The band started rehearsing the songs that were already written. Also during the same summer of 2011, the band spend a whole lot of time in their home studio in Stockholm as well as Milk Studios in Norrköping, recording demos to promote the first album.
Two songs were later released in the winter of 2011-2012 for free on YouTube as well as for free downloading.

During the spring of 2012 the band played a couple of one hour live sets including opening for Forgotten Suns, in Lisbon, Portugal.

In the summer of 2012 the band once again entered the studios, this time to record their first
full-length debut album.
The album finally got to see the light of day when it was released on January 15th, 2013 through Corrupted Records, created by Delle Fave.

Seventh Dimension played at The Dark Side of Stockholm in promotion of the album as well as
putting together a 2 hour set at Debaser, Slussen where the band played the whole album as well as covers and songs that would appear on following records.

During the summer of 2013, Thorén recorded all the drums for the new album followed by Delle Fave adding guitars during the fall and winter. 
During 2014, bass and keyboards were added as well as vocals that were once again
recorded at Milk Studios.

In January 2015 the mixing and mastering was done and Recognition was set to be released on
Febraury 13th, 2015. A release party was held at Copperfields on February 21 to promote the album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Seventh+Dimension">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.