Amber "Sevyn" Streeter is a singer/songwriter who was a part of two girl groups. Back in 2002 she was a part of TG4 which fell apart and later joined Rich Harrison's group, Richgirl, which split in 2011.

Her songs and vocals have been heard by millions, earning multiple awards and countless accolades, but only now is Sevyn Streeter poised to take her own place in the spotlight. The acclaimed singer/songwriter is currently readying her eagerly awaited Atlantic debut album, a bright and brazen mix of pop, soul, hip-hop, and R&B, spiced by her characteristic gospel-inspired vocals and knack for irrepressible hooks and harmonies.
Sevyn grew up in Haines City, Florida where she first discovered her voice while singing in church. She began performing regularly, winding up on the legendary stage of New York’s Apollo Theatre at just 10 years old. The following years saw her honing her craft with tours alongside Bow Wow, B2K, Mario and Beyonce and well received TV performances on Soul Train, Showtime At The Apollo, and the annual Soul Train Lady of Soul Awards.
An avowed student of R&B, soul, and hip-hop – with influences spanning Michael and Janet Jackson, Whitney Houston and Celine Dion, Tank and Dru Hill, Jagged Edge and 112 – Sevyn furthered her musical vision by mastering the craft of songwriting. She quickly proved to be an in-demand writer and vocalist, called upon by a remarkable roster of top studio superstars, including Timbaland, Swizz Beatz, Babyface, Polow da Don, Jean Baptiste/Free School, Pop & Oak, and The Runners, among others.
In 2011, Sevyn co-wrote singles featured on acclaimed albums by two extraordinary R&B icons, Kelly Rowland’s "HERE I AM" and Mary J. Blige's "MY LIFE II...THE JOURNEY CONTINUES", but her breakthrough came with the arrival of Chris Brown's massively successful "F.A.M.E." The album saw Sevyn co-writing a number of the album's biggest singles – including "Next To You (Feat. Justin Bieber)", "Wet The Bed (Feat. Ludacris)", and the million-selling smash, "Yeah 3x" – while her distinctive voice can be heard on such tracks as the top 5 R&B/Hip-Hop hit, "She Ain't You." "F.A.M.E." proved an unqualified pop sensation, receiving RIAA gold certification and the 2012 Grammy Award for "Best R&B Album." The phenomenal success of "Yeah 3x" and "Wet The Bed" earned Sevyn a prestigious pair of ASCAP Awards, acknowledging the tracks among the year's most-performed songs.
Just one year later, Brown once again enlisted Sevyn's songwriting services for his #1 blockbuster, "FORTUNE." This time out, the Grammy-winning superstar chose to highlight her remarkable voice on a number of duets as well as backing vocals throughout. As if that weren’t enough, Sevyn can be seen in Brown’s MTV Video Music Award-winning clip, "Turn Up The Music."
A remarkably prolific songwriter, Sevyn's songs will be heard on an array of upcoming albums from such stars as Brandy, Fantasia, and Kelly Rowland. Her most recent songwriting successes include "New Day", the Swizz Beatz-produced lead single from Alicia Keys' hugely anticipated new album, "GIRL ON FIRE."
Blessed with boundless talent and effervescent energy, Sevyn is now focused like a laser beam on her as-yet untitled solo debut. With a powerhouse sound that's not dissimilar from the gifted young artist herself – soulful and sophisticated, sexy and strong, heartfelt and honest, flirty and fun – Sevyn is finally ready to join the ranks of her heroes at the center of the stage and the top of the charts.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sevyn+Streeter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.