Sex Bob-omb is a fictional garage punk trio from Toronto, Canada, featured in the Scott Pilgrim series of graphic novels by Bryan Lee O'Malley, first published in 2004. The band consists of lead vocalist and guitarist Stephen Stills, bassist and backup vocalist Scott Pilgrim, and drummer Kim Pine. They are yet to release their debut album, despite attracting much attention following their appearance in film Scott Pilgrim Vs. The World.

Scott and Kim first met in high school, and formed the band Sonic And Knuckles. They broke up shortly after their first gig at Lunchapalooza, as Scott was moving to Toronto. While at college, Scott met Stephen, forming the band Kid Chameleon with fellow classmate Envy Adams. Despite a record deal, relationship issues between Scott and Envy led to Stephen and Scott leaving the band, and Envy forming the successful group The Clash at Demonhead upon her move to Montreal. Sex Bob-omb was founded around the time Kim moved to Toronto. The band play concerts intermittently, and have thus far enjoyed only a little success, remaining unsigned at present.

The series was adapted into a feature-length film in 2010, titled Scott Pilgrim Vs. The World after the second comic in the series and directed by Edgar Wright. The band was portrayed by Michael Cera, Alison Pill and Mark Webber as Scott, Kim and Stephen respectively. Four of their songs, We Are Sex Bob-omb, Garbage Truck, Summertime and Threshold appear in the film's soundtrack, all of which were written by Beck Hansen, with all of the instruments being played by the actors in the film.

In the comic, the band splits after Kim moves back in with her parents, with Kim and Scott later reforming as Shatterband, while Stephen joins the band of Sex Bob-omb producer Joseph. In the film, Scott is eventually replaced by number-one fan Neil Nordegraf on bass.









 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sex+Bob-Omb">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.