Sexcrement was formed by Evan Duplessis, Mark Richards, Devon Hunt, Josh Staples and Adam Mason in November of 2005. Taking influence from bands such as Broken Hope, Gorguts, Scattered Remnants and Skinless, Sexcrement plays death metal flooded with groove, seasoned with technicality and smothered in the perverse.

The band stormed out of the gate with the "Whiskey Tits" demo. Engineered by Darren Cesca (Arsis/Goratory) and mastered by Colin Davis (Vile), several hundred copies were distributed all over the Northeast and world. Within a year of conception, they had already emerged at the top of the North East US death metal scene sharing the stage alongside Cryptopsy, Suffocation, Cattle Decapitation, Dehumanized, Origin, Malignancy, Internal Suffering, Lividity, Anal Blast, Anal Cunt, Neuraxis, Goatwhore, Mutilated, Rompeprop, Cliteater, Mucopus and countless others.

August of 2006 saw the departure of Mark Richards, and shortly after the "Granny Tranny Midget Fetish" single was released. Within a matter of months a deal was signed with the DeathMetal.us record label/distro. Recording commenced for their first full length album soon afterwards. "Genitales from the Porno Potty" was released in the summer of 2007 and is ten meaty slabs of straight to the point death metal that goes for the groin.

The band brought their brand of smut riddled brutality throughout the land in the following year, playing the Central Illinois Metalfest and New England Deathfests to rabid audiences. The CD garnered praise from all over, allowing them to travel overseas to play the NRW Deathfest is Germany with Skinless, Goratory and loads more. At the end of 2008, Josh Staples left the group and fresh blood was brought in by way of Blue Spinazola (Dysentery, Parasitic Extirpation). The band is currently making way for their new EP 'XXX Bargain Bin,' which will only serve as an appetizer for the band's second full length opus of disgusting debauchery. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sexcrement">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.