The band Sezarbil was created in January 1997 by two ex-members of band Astaroth – Lord Sezarbil (guitar) and Charon (bass). Another guitarist, Gemba, prematurely leaves the new band under tragic circumstances. Antichrist takes the drums and Raven the voices.

The band goes to a studio “Orli hnizdo”in November 1997 and comes out with a demo CD “The End of Sacred Faith… occido, occidere”, which was released, with help of W.K.M. Prodution manager Martin Fiala, in early 1998.

After a year the band moves to “Danken George Lukas Studio”, where they record material for a split CD “Proti všem”. Among the five songs there is also Immortality, an instrumental recorded at the garage when Gemba was still alive. The other two bands on the CD are Inferno and Maniac Butcher. The split album was produced by Pussy God Records in 666 copies in 1999.

Another godless album named “The Unknown Empire" was recorded at the same studio. It carries ten songs and was produced by Leviathan Records in 2000.

Just as in many other bands, the members of Sezarbil changed several times. Charon and Antichrist left for personal reasons. Their places were substituted by Smrt (drums) and Martes (bass).

Martes leaves in summer 2001, replaced by Behemoth. Smrt leaves in late 2001 and his place is taken by Killy, a former drummer of a black metal project of Lord Sezarbil called Heiglot. Not even this lineup lasts for long, however. After many years, Raven dramatically leaves the band, soon followed by Behemoth and Killy. The voices were taken by Vex then and the bass by Rosabis, both former member of the Heiglot project. Nevertheless, the search for the drummer remained vain for some time and brought nearly a year of idleness, filled up with Lord Sezarbil creating new songs for the new album.

In autumn 2003, Tolbuchyn starts to give guest performances and, after having played at several gigs, he is accepted as the new drummer.

At the moment the lineup is as follows: Lord Sezarbil (guitar), Rosabis (bass), Vex (voices) and Tolbuchyn (drums). The band records a new album named “Bleed for the devil…” at Forest studio and it is released in January 2007 under the dark wings of Murderous Music Production. The CD contains eight songs. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sezarbil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.