! Sezure is a western Sydney outfit formed in June 2006 by drummer Scott Loughland, bassist Clayton Druett and guitarist Robbie Renshaw with the idea of forming a thrash metal band. With the additions of vocalist Kaz Kage, bringing in a blend of death, power and nu-metal vocals. Sezure, then unnamed, re-organised in order to accomodate the new vocalist and attempted to write songs with thrash/power metal influences. Tensions formed early in the band, with Sezure dismissing founding member and guitarist Robbie Renshaw due to creative differences and the band had replaced him with guitarist Karl Sidley, whose swooning melodic-yet-heavy guitar style would later form the basis of most of Sezure's material. At the end of 2006, the band had four completed songs and had made some extremely rough recordings in Kaz' garage. More turmoil was to come when Clayton had left due to other musical pursuits and the band had now found themselves a three piece. They went into the studio and made a 4 track demo. Kaz recruited his next door neighbour, Matt Pope, to play second guitar in order to add depth, and also added bassist Sebastian Strangio to the fold not long after and the band completed one more song coming into early 2007. Sezure shot out of the garage scene and made themselves noticed when they held their first live show with a five song set list and was met with great reception, which generated a lot of interest in the local metal community and has now been the foundation of creating their fanbase. Sezure was now in talks about creating their first EP, when Matt left due to career and personal responsiblities that were incompatible with meeting band committments, and Sezure reverted back to a four piece band, which is now the current line up today. Creating songs with expanse guitar riffage & melodic solos reminiscent of classic thrash metal days, weaving bass lines, stylish and expanse drum lines and raw powerful vocals, Sezure have now completed eight songs and have played two further gigs and released their anticipated EP. Looking to gig more and create more material for their first LP release, Sezure have developed a new plane in metal and have yet to quench the thirst of their rabid and growing fanbase. The EP "Out Of Sight, Out Of Mind" Was Released Infront Of A Crowd Of About 80 People At The Glenmore Park Youth Centre On The 5th Of October. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SeZure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.