There are multiple artists with this name:

1) A thrash metal band from Sydney, Australia formed in 2000.

2) S h a c k l e s is a Norwegian duo known from the 2009 edition of X-Factor (formerly a band with four members).

3) A dubstep DJ from the UK.

4) Fast, heavy and pissed off hardcore from the beach, in the vein of Infest/Mind Eraser/Napalm Death.

1)
Shackles is a death/thrash metal band from Sydney, Australia formed in 2000. Shackles formed in the year 2000, though the idea had been circling for a little while before that. There were no grand plans, other than to create songs that drew from the various influences that drove each member of the band. The first full line-up featured in its ranks ex-Erosion bass player (and one-time Minotaur vocalist) Rainer Wischnewski, as well as Ian (vocals), Loony (guitars) and Matt (drums).

The following three years were filled with frustration and a slight lack of direction. Rainer faded from view, drummers came and went, recording sessions failed to eventuate and the only real signs of life were a few party shows that failed to impress anyone - except perhaps breweries and chemical companies. Finally, some semblance of continuity emerged and the band played numerous shows around Sydney. Whilst far from perfect, they at least gave Shackles a level of renown in the local scene.

It wasn’t really until mid-2004 that the band hinted at any potential. Long tied down by the lack of potency and live charisma of the guitarists, bassist/vocalist Ian and drummer Joss (at that time Infernal Method frontman) drafted in two new axe-stranglers to take the band to a new level. The addition of Dario (lead guitar) and Matt (rhythm guitar) gave Shackles a stronger sound and more cohesive live presence. This combination has seen the band play shows throughout Australia, including visits to Melbourne, Brisbane, Canberra, Hobart and Bendigo.

Despite having ample songs for a full-length recording, the band focused on building a reputation the old fashioned way – releasing demos and promoting the name through the underground. 2005’s rehearsal demo ‘Orgy of corpses’ started the ball rolling, followed by a studio demo in 2006 entitled ‘Coup de grace’. Both tapes were pressed professionally and released by Australian label Beer in Your Ear Records.

In 2007 Shackles supported Danish horror metal ghouls Denial of God and Japanese death metal veterans Defiled on the Sydney legs of their Australian tours. Other bands they’ve shared the stage with over the years include Toxic Holocaust (USA), Diocletian (New Zealand), Gospel of the Horns, Destruktor, StarGazer, Grenade, Atomizer, Misery and Nocturnal Graves. Late 2007 also saw the release of their debut vinyl offering, the ‘Inquisitor’s curse’ 7”. Displaying ravaging death/thrash laced with purest heavy metal, it is the most refined and distinctive Shackles release yet.

Tapping the vein of all the best that heavy metal had to offer from the ‘70s to early ‘90s and never afraid to exalt their Australian roots, Shackles are unique, if not earth-shatteringly original. With a debut full-length written and soon to be recorded, the whips of the chain gang continue to strike…

The band has released one full length as of February 7th, 2009, titled "Traitors' Gate". Shackles split up as of May 2009.

Releases can be found http://www.hellsheadbangers.com


2) S h a c k l e s is a Norwegian duo known from the 2009 edition of X-Factor (formerly a band with four members).

They came in on the second place in the big final in Telenor Arena on Dec.18th, 2009.
Their single first is “Breaking the Silence”
Shackles had IMira Craig as mentor.


Dynamic duo Lwam and Charlotte are Shackles. Lwam is the sassy, exotic beauty with rich tones to her soaring voice. Charlotte is the girl next door, the fun loving princess who sings like a bird in the springtime. As individuals, they are artists in their own right. Together, they are a power pact with enough talent, energy and personality to outshine the latest music industry fad. Finishing in 2nd place in Norway’s 2009 X Factor, Shackles have proved they’ve got the “X” factor. And now, with several new up tempo singles coming out, Charlotte and Lwam are ready to show you they’ve also got the “hit” factor.
 
SHACKLES: IN THE PRESS
 
TV: Appeared on TV2 every Friday night to perform live for 11 weeks on X Factor
 
RADIO: Interviewed and played on national radio stations “P4”, “NRJ”, “Radio Norge”, and many local radio stations such as “Radio Tønsberg”", “Radio Sandnes”, “Radio Rogaland”
 
PRINT: “Her og Nå”, “VG”, “FHM”, “Se og hør”, “Dagbladet”, “God Kveld Norge” seher.no, kjendis.no, and many different local newspapers
 
ONLINE: www.730.no, scandipop.co.uk, no.msn.com, massiv.no, tb.no, blog.danrhagen.com and many more…
 
SHACKLES: ACHIEVEMENTS
 ■Shackles performed at Telenor Arena in front of 12,000 live audience members and 900,000 live TV viewers, the same stage that Michael Jackson was practicing for his “This is it”- concert the summer before. In addition, Tina Turner used part of the same stage.
 ■Shackles spontaneously joined in singing live with Alejandro Fuentes at the end of his concert in Feburary, 2010, where Shackles had performed earlier the same night.
 ■The first Shackles single, Breaking the Silence, reached 8th place on VG-lista, the official Norwegian charts, and reached number 2 on iTunes
 ■The second Shackles single, I Ride at Night, was the first song Charlotte and Lwam co wrote together, and it was most played on the Graduation Party compilation on iTunes
■ Shackles entered the Norwegian Melodi Grand Prix stage in january 2013 performing "On hold"




3)
DJ Shackles has been making tunes for two years now. He produces more of a darker dubstep sound by mixing grime with metal influence. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shackles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.