- The Early Daze - 
      It all begun with Luis Goulão. As a youngster, he used to dream with having a metal band and playing all around the world. Bands like IRON MAIDEN and W.A.S.P. turn on his passion for playing guitar. And so it begun in 1991. 
      After some bands, and a 2 year period aside from the metal world, Luis decided to come back and finally formed the project of his life – SHADOWSPHERE. Along with some friends the project gained wings to fly. Hugo (guitar), Fernando (bass) and Nuno (drums) were the first line-up to meet up with Luis (guitar & vocals) back in October 2000. Mainly influenced by Thrash Metal from the 80’s, Swedish Death Metal and some traditional Metal, SHADOWSPHERE arrived!!!!

-What Dreams May Come -
      André Silva replaced Nuno in early 2001. This was the formation that recorded the track “Lusitania” included in the tribute to Tarantula’s 20 years’ career released in 2001 by Recital.
During the year of 2001, the band performs some concerts and prepares the edition of a promo-CD to be released by the end of that year. In the meantime, in September, Fernando is replaced by Pedro Vieira, and immediately the band records a set of 4 tracks to be released under the name of “Death and Dreaming”, in October. These tracks were recorded in the Floyd Studios under the guidance and production of Nuno Loureiro (Painstruck), who had already produced the Tarantula track in the same studio. In spite of the very positive reviews, the band decides to delay the edition of “Death and Dreaming”. 
      By June 2002, Paulo Gonçalves replaces Luís only in the lead vocals. Although this was regarded as a breath of fresh air to the sound of the band, Paulo’s entry did not set aside the stigma of change and Pedro is replaced in September by Rui Neves. 
      With the formation properly reviewed, the band then decides to record another song and edit the opening EP “Death and Dreaming”. Once again they record in the Floyd Studios with Nuno Loureiro and the release takes place on October 26th in FNAC – Chiado, Lisbon, in front of over 150 people (an almost unheard-of feat in Forum Chiado...). 
      One year later, the band suffers another line-up change and the band had to quickly recruit another guitarist, Filipe Sousa, to replace Hugo Fernandes. Still the band decides to enter the Floyd Estudios as a quartet, in September 2003, in order to record their first album, entitled “DarkLands”. The production was once again in charge of Nuno Loureiro and the release was in January 2004. 
            Due to “DarkLands”, the band started a series of gigs of promotion, which lead them to about 40 gigs in 2004/2005 supporting Moonspell, Desire, Temple, Icon  The Black Roses, ThanatoSchizo, Decapitated, Primordial, Nightrage, etc… Reviews from all over the world compared SHADOWSPHERE to the talents of SOILWORK, AT THE GATES and IN FLAMES.
      And then came the time for another release. Joining Nuno Loureiro in October 2005, the guys recorded the forthcoming work and had it mixed and mastered in Sweden by Dan Swanö, who did a great work, helping the creation of SHADOWSPHERE´s own sound.
      And so, after a few delays, “Hellbound Heart” saw the light of day in May 23rd 2006. A short time after, Filipe leaves the band.
      The “Hellbound Tour” begun with a great gig, opening for DISMEMBER, and continued throught 2006, finishing in early 2007 opening for Malevolent Creation and Rotting Christ. “Hellbound Heart” had the best of reviews around the world, specially in countries like Canada, U.S.A., Finland, Germany and Russia. After the last gig of the “Hellbound Tour 2007”, the band decides to take a break. Meanwhile, André leaves the band.
       The Shadows gathered in mid 2010, with Luis Goulão, Paulo Gonçalves and the rookies Ricardo Trincheiras (guitar), Emídio Ramos (drums) and Nelson Dionísio (bass). Presently, the Shadows are about to record the forthcoming album, and with returning shadow Rui Neves on th bass.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shadowsphere">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.