THERE IS MORE THAN ONE ARTIST WITH THIS NAME:

1)Shadowplay is a Finnish rock band with albums such as "Raw Powder" and "Touch and Glow". They formed in 1982 and are still together in 2007.
In 2005 they released a box set of all their recorded material entitled "Morgue: Complete Recordings".
Official Website

2)Shadowplay is an Indie rock band from Coventry, UK.

3)ShadowPlay is a female fronted Gothic Rock band from Australia.
The band formed in 2003 and released their debut album in 2007.
Official Website

4)Shadowplay is a classic rock band from the Netherlands.
Official Website


5)Shadowplay [GER] was the solo project of Michael Scholz, nowadays best known as the singer of cult 80s goths Taste of Decay. 

Discography:
Another Autumn Day K7 (1988, Individual Pop)
An Ideal World K7 (1990, Self-Released)
Tears K7 (1992, Self-Released)
A History of Shadowplay 1988-1992 K7 (1993, Beton Tapes)
A Perfect Frame (A Compilation of Previously Unreleased Songs) K7 (199x, Self-Released) 

6)Shadowplay are an Irish three-piece band.Formed in September 2010, Shadowplay are fast becoming recognised as one of Irelands most creative and accomplished bands. The band members, from Donegal, Ardee and Dublin, are all recent music graduates from around the country who came together in their final year at NUI Maynooth and have rapidly gelled to become one of the best new bands in the country.

Having established themselves as a stunning live band, they have recently introduced their audiences to their own distinctive brand of melodic rock, blending creative melodies with strong bass lines and progressive harmonies to generate a sound that resists comparisons with popular trends and finds its roots in the 70s and 80s covers that they deliver so well. In the past year, Shadowplay have shared the bill with such notable names as Bobby Kimball (TOTO), The Undertones, TKO, Luan Parle and Royseven. A testament to their ability to entertain and enthuse a crowd was their selection by The Ian Dempsey Breakfast Show to be taken to Austria as the Ski Trip band for a week, playing to a crowd of 500 for each of 5 nights, varying their sets and playing one evening with The Saw Doctors in Badhofgastein. The end of the week saw their first mainstream radio appearance playing their first single, Words, live on the Ian Demspey Show. Words shot to number eight in the Irish rock charts on its first day of release. A second single is being released mid summer to coincide with a number of festival appearances and a four date ticketed tour with Bobby Kimball of Toto in July. 

Official Website - Shadowplayofficial.com
Official Shadowplay Facebook Page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shadowplay">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.