In the summer of 2007 the two founding members of Shadows Entwined (rhythm/lead guitarists Walter Martinez and Emilio Coello of Los Angeles, CA), met for the first time. Their mission was to start a brutally melodic power metal band with European influences.


Following the lead of such bands as Helloween, Dimmu Borgir, Iron Maiden and many other genres of metal through ought Los Angeles, both Walter and Emilio strove to fill the void in power metal bands of respectable caliber in the Los Angeles area.


They needed to complete their musical arsenal by finding an explosive drummer and bass player to hold down the ground-pounding rhythm they envisioned. Soon after, Walter met a local drummer from east LA at a local black metal show. That meeting led to an audition and soon after it was clear that the two guitarists had found their machine gun drummer - Romeo Cisneros.


Tim Anderson joined the band in January of 2008, bringing the power metal vocals Shadows Entwined had been searching for since its creation.


Throughout 2007 and 2008, Steve Ceron played bass guitar; recording the Nightmares Made Flesh EP and the Divine Darkness full-length CD. Shortly after recording Divine Darkness, Ceron left the band for personal reasons.


Joseph Silva was quickly added to the band, dishing out strongly abrasive rhythm on bass guitar.
Shadows Entwined has pressed forward throughout Los Angeles and Orange County, performing at venues such as the world famous Whisky a GoGo,The Key Club, The Knitting Factory, Mirror Image Showcase Studios and much more.


With the rising buzz of the Nightmares Made Flesh EP, Shadows Entwined quickly went into the studio to record their full-length album. Divine Darkness was recorded in October of 2008 and completed in December of the same year.


With the release of Divine Darkness, Shadows Entwined will embark on a summer tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shadows+Entwined">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.