There are several artists named "Shades of Grey."

1. Shades of  Grey is a  Synthpop band from Southern California

Shades of Grey was formed in  Southern California  by brothers  Tim and Tom Kramer  in 1992

The band's debut release, "Background," was recorded and assembled at Knottypine Studios in San Bernardino, California. Released in May of 1992, "Background" was an underground hit in the Southern California area with songs like "Boys and Girls" and "The Red Hill."

Shades of Grey once again headed back to the studio in 1993 with producer Cole Coonce. The untitled release featured "Goodbye" and "Emotional," Shades of Grey's most popular songs to date. Garnering regular rotation play from some of Southern California's hottest radio stations, both "Goodbye" and "Emotional" became minor hits in the Southern California club scene. 

In early 1997, the brothers were approached by David Lin of the newly formed Synthphony Records in New York and offered a record deal. The band agreed and in September of the same year released their first full-length album, "The Longest Day." The album features re-workings of several songs from the past, as well as new songs such "Glory," "The Longest Hour," and "Nothing More To Say."

Shades of Grey followed up their debut Synthphony release with a song contributed to the compilation "Untied Synthpop of America, Volume I." called "Perfect Wine," The following two years were spent recording several songs which appeared on various compilations, including "The Future's Over" and a cover of Camouflage's "Heaven, I Want You," after which the band entered the arena of remixing. Lead by Tom's programming and production wizardry, Shades of Grey's remixed bands such as Red Flag, Echoing Green, 

2001 saw Shades of Grey's second release,  "All I Have To Give." Featuring remixes by Cause and Effect, Persona, and Intact, among others, Also featuring the songs "New Year's Day" and "Pure," "All I Have To Give" was followed up by Shades of Grey's performance at SynthCon 2001. More recently, the brothers have once again remixed Red Flag for the "Who Are The Skulls?" project, as well as recorded the song "Face to Face" for DJ Ram's Virtual Server effort. 

2. Shades of Grey is a female-fronted Swedish d-beat/crust band who formed in 2005. They have two releases, a demo "A Self-Inflicted Exile" was released in 2006, and most recently released a split LP with Massmord on Profane Existence Records in the summer of 2008. They are currently working on their first full-length LP.
Members are: Diana: Vocals and guitar; Maria: Vocals and bass; Martin: Guitar; Sakke: Drums.

3. Shades of Grey is a Belgium Heavy/Thrash metal band. They formed in 2003 in the city of Genk. SOD has released 3 demo's so far. The line-up consists of Berto Porco (vocals), Serge Gielen (guitars), Rob Reumers (guitars), Ludo Teska (bass) and Oli Marut (drums).

Shades of Grey was also a technical Thrash Metal from the United States. They released 4 demo's from 1988 to 1991.

4. Shades of Grey are an Australian punk band. They formed in 2007 in the town of Tallangatta. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shades+Of+Grey">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.