The ShadowIcon story goes began in 2006 when several friends (Tomaž, Bojan, Damir and Kristjan) had an idea to form a band. Each member was influenced by different genres of music so eventually they decided to play metal. It soon became evident that it wasn't suitable for all of them, so in the first months of 2007 the line-up changed dramatically. All that was left of ShadowIcon were two guitar players - Tomaž and Bojan. Very soon Gašper filled in the rhythm section gap and so the first true ShadowIcon songs were written with just two guitars and drums. But they were only in the beginning of their road and in a desperate search for a bass player, a keyboardist and a vocalist.

One winter evening, destiny brought Bojan and Matej together. At that time Matej was a bass player in several bands but none of them was close to his wish to play melodic power metal, which then came true as he became the new ShadowIcon member. The group went on, composing new material but something was still missing. In February, Bojan and Matej went to a concert where Divine Illusion had that very missing link that ShadowIcon needed. Pero was recruited as a new keyboardist which gave the musicians a new boost, fresh ideas and a new desire to continue. In their constant search for a vocalist, they held many auditions but nobody seemed quite right. So in 2008 they decided to record some of their songs instrumentally.

In October 2008 and May/June 2009 all the instrumental tracks for the debut album “Empire in Ruins” were finished. Unfortunately there were some major band frictions which eventually led to Gašper’s departure and ShadowIcon had to re-recording all the drums for the album. Later that year, the new drummer Andrej Vnuk joined the band, so the line-up was once more missing just a vocalist. During the rehearsals for a new drummer, the band held a few auditions and met the perfect candidate to fill in as the missing link. So in the fall of 2009 vocalist Ana Prijatelj joined the group.

ShadowIcon was complete for the first time ever. From that time on, they started arranging lyrics and vocal lines and set out to finish their debut. In the spring of 2011 Ana recorded all the vocal tracks and in the fall of 2011 Vid Zgonc became the new drummer. Their first studio album is a concept effort which was finally released in November 2011.

In December 2014 the band officially revealed their new EP, titled ' Smoke and Mirrors' - to be released the same month. They also released their first music video for a song from the EP - 'If I Was the One.' <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ShadowIcon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.