SHADOWCASTs foundation goes back to 1999 when bandleader Clemens Mayr decided to create a project with use of riffs that did not suit his black metal outfit AMORTIS. Mayr compiled some songs and in 2000 eventually recorded his first demo entitled Project Judgement with assistance of his bandmates Lukas Lindenberger and Simon Mayr (both git) that already showed the unique style, SHADOWCAST is all about. The basis for this experimental electronical metal-act was set up. 
After some label-shopping SHADOWCAST signed a contract and recorded their debut album Desperate Accuse Dimension in 2002. Roman Lindenberger (git) stepped in once again, while his brother Lukas programmed the drums. Though receiving some very good international reviews, Mayr was not really satisfied with the result of this recording. Too much gothic-elements and too little experimental parts could be heard on this CD in his point of view. So one year later SHADOWCAST headed back to the studio with new equipment and a whole new crew: Drummer Lukas performed the clean vocal parts while infamous Austrian drummer Moritz Neuner (ex-GRAVEWORM, LEAVES' EYES, ATROCITY) fired from behind the drums. 
The Near Life Experience showed SHADOWCAST in a more mature songwriting and much better production and also marked the start of live-activities all around Austria and also abroad. Strengthened with session-guitarist Simon Reinelt, SHADOWCAST's live debut took place at Planet Music, Vienna, as support-act for no other than Cradle of Filth and with great resonance. On their "Near Live Experience"-activities the band also performed some concerts with fellows GRAVEWORM and got in touch with Stefan Fiori (GRAVEWORM) who took over vocal-duties on the latest gigs since Lukas did not have time for more touring any more.
From mid 2004 till mid 2006 SHADOWCAST went on hiatus, laying down all live-performances. Meanwhile Clemens started writing on the third SHADOWCAST-strike, for which he set up new goals: more diversity, more compact songwriting and more heaviness. 
The result is nothing but overwhelming. The new release will have it all: 10 songs of electronical metal that meets the standards of modern heavy music. If industrial or dark-pop, brutal double-bass-attacks or catchiness, SHADOWCAST have compiled an album that offers different types of synth-orientated songs without forgetting the metal-part in them. Furthermore their third release features a very experimental song featuring only female vocals. Watch out for a strong new release - more details will be announced soon! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shadowcast">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.