There are multiple artists using the name Shade.

1) Shade is a pop/rock quartet from Toronto, Canada. They play warm, honest and catchy songs in a style that has been likened to The Velvet Underground, Belle and Sebastian, and Cat Power. Their debut album Highway was released in April, 2010. It is produced by friend Tim Vesely (Rheostatics, Violet Archers). 

You can also find this band under Shade (Canada). 
Official website is: www.shademusic.com

Shade's members are a seasoned crew of musicians: Jane Gowan (Spygirl, Belinda Bruce, The Neins Circa) - lead vocals, guitar; Mary Harmer (Weeping Tile) - bass; Cam Giroux (Oh Susanna, Violet Archers, Sarah Harmer) - drums, and Jonny James (Gentleman Reg, Emm Gryner) - guitar. 

2) Shade is a visual kei band from Japan

3) Black Metal band from Quebec, Canada, release an EP in 1999 called “Isa”, later re-released as a split with Geimhre on Stellar Winter records in 2005.

4) Doom-death metal band from Poland. Released one demo “Light” (1993) and one full-length album “Sounds of Memory (Chapter…Echo)” (1997)

5) Indie-rock band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on Lovely Recordings, The Cougar Label (US) and Bracken Records (UK).

6) Video Game Music composer for the editor Alicesoft.

7) Shade was also a finnish alternative rock group that existed the first five years of this millennium. During this time they made a couple of demos and played killer shows. Two songs can be downloaded from finnish site Mikseri.

8) Shade are an alternative rock band from Bangladesh who gained fame through the release of singles Dhowar Majhe and Tobuo.

9) Eric "Shade" Balderose is a guitarist, vocalist, and keyboard player of Code Orange. He makes industrial/ambient music under his Shade moniker.

10) Shade/Nuance is a music producer and guitarist from Czech Republic focused on many genres of edm but mainly Drum and bass - https://soundcloud.com/shade842 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.