There are multiple bands that share the name Shadowcaster:

1. Ambient project founded in 1993 by prolific USBM musician Mikael Bayusik of Tearstained, Night Conquers Day and Into the Sunless Meridian, among others.

2. Progressive metal band founded in 1995 by Rich Hessil. Originally went by the name Tangled Grace.

3. Ritualistic Electronic/Industrial/Breakbeat artist from Denver, Colorado USA (founded in 2010).



1. From Mikael's website: Shadowcaster is not metal, but an atmospheric/ambient solo-project that I began in late 1993. I used keyboards and synths to create "sonic paintings" that are surreal, unique, and sometimes improvised. In 1994 two promos were released, and in 1996 the "Abandonment" debut CD came out on a shitty Greek label. In January 1999 two new albums were released at once on Wild Rags Records. "Psychelectronic Experience" a brand new second album. It's much more ambient than any of the other releases with a lot of 1970's influences (Tangerine Dream, Lucifer, Tonto's Expanding Head Band, Klaus Schulze, etc.). It's a concept album about LSD influenced shaman-trance meant to induce hallucinations or a meditative state helpful to transcending "normal" consciousness. The vocals are narrated through a series of strange effects. Nothing quite like it has been done before. There are 3 surreal and flowing songs clocking in for a total of 65 minutes. "Temptation" is the other "new" album. It was intended to be a re-release of the "Abandonment" album, but very quickly ideas started coming to mind, the tracklisting began to alter enormously, and it's become a collection of older material in previously unreleased alternate versions of songs from "Abandonment" and select songs from the 2 promos (with a few exceptions). So it's a totally different album than "Abandonment" is. The music is very dark, surreal and at times symphonic. There are quite a few instrumentals on it, plus the 25 minute epic "Ereshkigal's Gift" which tells the story of the ascension of Inanna (the Sumerian moongoddess) in a resurrection-myth predating the christian myth by 2000 years. Both CD's are available at my address. Distributors get in touch for trades or wholesale prices.

Since 2000 Shadowcaster has been dormant. If any labels are interested in resurrecting Shadowcaster, contact me, and perhaps a new album will be recorded. Right now I am very busy working on my other projects and recordings. 




2. In 1995, Rich Hessil answered an ad for a guitarist and singer for the band Tangled Grace. Later that year the name was changed to Shadowcaster. In '96 they recorded their first 4 song demo. They separated for a while. 

After a three year break, Rich reformed the band in 1999.

Shadowcaster is:

Rich Hessil: Guitarist/Vocals

Ty Detrick: Bass

TBA: Drums

Released debut CD "Freedom" on 12/17/2000 to good reviews. Recorded and produced by Troy Stetina and Shadowcaster with assistance by Michael Wenz at Artists Underground Studio in New Berlin, Wisconsin. 




3. SHADOWCASTER is an electronic music project of Aleph.Null. Hailing from Denver, Colorado Null creates Ritualistic, Breakbeat/Industrial music with an emphasis on heavy sounding bass synths and occultism. Live performances of ShadowCaster material are often accompanied on stage by live performance art and have previously included body modification including piercing and suspension. Shows have also included interactive multimedia, poetry, fire, blood, ancient mythology and dead animals on stage. 

Shadowcaster's first short film named "The Alchemical Visions Of Zosimos" was released and packaged with a corresponding album. It won best documentary at the Denver Underground Film Festival in 2011. The film was a live recording of a Shadowcaster show. It was performed as a 2 part feature in which the Reverend Steven Johnson Leyba performed a "death curse" on the Monsanto Corporation afterwards. Steven Leyba, Jeanelle Mastema, Russell Wilmhoff, William Settle, Nicole Alton, Kevin Foy and Ink Kensington were all collaborators in the performance. Due to the subject matter the entire performance was deemed the first "illegal ritual" since the Ghost Dance in the 1800's because it violated the Food Libel Law in Colorado and 12 other states.

Albums and information can be found @ http://nullpointrecords.tk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shadowcaster">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.