ShadowKeep are a signed, progressive power metal band with three albums to their credit and an 11-year history including supports for Ronnie James Dio, Halford and Symphony X.
They are also veterans of festivals across Europe and America – including Bloodstock in the UK.
Now they’re back with powerful new frontman Matt Oakman – and ready to rip it up.

HISTORY

ShadowKeep were formed in 1999 by guitarists Chris Allen and Nikki Robson. That October, with vocalist Rogue M, they recorded a six-track EP at Thin Ice Studios, produced by Threshold guitarist Karl Groom. Their opus Dark Tower became the opener on a German mag’s CD for unsigned bands – and gained them a record deal with Limb Music Productions in June 2000. Two albums, Corruption Within and A Chaos Theory, followed to huge acclaim. The band soon gained support slots with Ronnie James Dio, Halford, Symphony X, Dream Evil plus Flotsam And Jetsam. These major shows led to appearances at festivals in the UK, America, Germany and Holland. Their touring had one benefit – the arrival of Texas bassist Stony Grantham. But other line-up changes held things up. Undeterred, ShadowKeep started work on third album The Hourglass Effect – again with Karl Groom at Thin Ice. The sessions produced some of Chris and Nikki’s most creative songwriting. And the band gained singer Richie Wicks, ex Tygers Of Pan Tang and AngelWitch, plus drummer Omar Hayes. Things were looking up, with a new recording deal from Dutch label Melissa Records and Hourglass’s release in November 2008. The album was praised for its concise songs, soaring vocals and grand production. A reviewer from The Sun dubbed ShadowKeep “the new New Wave Of British Heavy Metal.” But fate had one more card to play. Wicks left in 2009, soon replaced by the formidable Matt Oakman. ShadowKeep endured frustration over the years but also produced superlative studio work and exciting stage shows. Now they’re back – and poised to take on the world!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shadowkeep">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.