Shahram Kashani (Persian: شهرام کاشانی) better known as Shahrum K or SK (born July 7, 1974 in Rome, Italy) is an Iranian pop singer. He has released 8 commercially successful albums with notable hits.

Biography

Shahrum’s interest for singing and music manifested at an early age. He started his career in 1990; however, it was not until 1992 that he released his professional debut album titled K-One, promoted by Alireza Amirghassemi,and also with support of persain super star Leila Forouhar , Due to his youth, synergy, and style he gained popularity in a short amount of time.

International popularity came with his second album Atash with hits like Begou Tou Begou and Khater Khah. In 2001 he stopped working with Caltex Records and instead signed on with Taraneh Records. This collaboration yielded couple instant bestsellers. The hit songs Dokhtar Bandari, Yadam Nemireh and Dige Basteh became club favorites. In a 2005 interview with Tapesh, Shahrum talked about his childhood, about his parent’s divorce and his mom’s short marriage to Googoosh’s first husband. Shahrum also, in this interview, blamed Taraneh Records for not promoting his new album Khoshalam enough and delaying its release. His claim was dismissed by the owner of Taraneh, Vartan Avenassian, who cited immaturity of the singer as cause of their tense relationship.

In August 2006 Shahrum’s new music video from his latest album Game Over (directed by élan productions), was aired on all Persian satellite channels. Despite his complications with the record company, this album was still released by Taraneh Records.

Discography
Caltex Records releases

1992: K-One 
1994: Atash 
1996: Havas 
1998: Friends 
Taraneh Records Releases

2001: Color Of Love 
2003: Don’t Tell 
2005: Khoshalam 
2007: Game Over 


Videography
DVD Releases

Khoshalam (included in the Khoshalam Album)

http://www.shahrumk.com/

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shahrum+Kashani">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.