There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Shanghai based in Sydney, Australia
2) Shanghai based in Stockholm, Sweden
3) Shanghai based in Connecticut, United States
4) Shanghai based in Copenhagen, Denmark www.shanghaimusic.net

1) Shanghai is an experimental 9 piece collective that is the brainchild of multi instrumentalist/producer Luis Rojas (The Locus Scene, The Red Room, The Merkins, Mechanical Black, View Park). The line up is rounded out by Alan Esquivel, Nicholas Sands, Davin McPherson, Chris Rojas, Grant Robinson, Chantel Bann, Riley Perry and Paul Murchison

Formed over 10 years ago and based in Sydney, Australia, Shanghai manage to effectively combine a myriad of musical styles and influences ranging from metal to pop and everything in between (and beyond!). This successfully cohesive mish mash is showcased on the bands first release, "Esoterica", which can be purchased from the bands online store.

They are currently working on their full length album,  "The Ultraviolent", which is due out early 2015:

http://www.theultraviolent.com

More Information is available at the official Well Fed Productions site:

http://www.wellfedproductions.com

and the official Facebook site:

https://www.facebook.com/shanghaimusic



2) Swedish synth-pop band, formed in Södertälje 1984 by Ulf Söderberg (vocals), Rex Gisslén (keyboards), John Sandh (guitar), Niklas Bergqvist (bass) and Ralph Björklundh (drums). Their first full length album entitled "Shanghai " was released in 1985. On the follow-up "I Full Frihet" (1986) Gisslén was replaced by keyboardist Anders Eliasson (ex-Page) and Björklundh was replaced by drummer Mikael Ellgren. After that the members went separate ways. John Sandh went on to play with Sha-Boom and Rex Gisslén did some soloprojects and also produced other artists and bands. In 2006, Gisslén and Sandh decided to reunite Shanghai with Marcus Öhrn on vocals.

http://shanghaisidan.blogspot.com



3) Connecticut melodic rockers comprising of singer Jayde, guitarist Tony Scialla, bassist Mike Duda (W.A.S.P.) and drummer Ron Kramer. The 1991 album "Take Another Bite" by 80's style rockers Shanghai was produced by James Christian (House Of Lords) and Jeff Cannata. "Bombs Away!" from 2001 was once again produced by the Christian / Cannata team. Robin Beck duets with Shanghai's Jayde on the track "Through These Eyes".

4) Danish Arabesque Pop Duo who released their debut Ep "the Priest" in may 2011 on Sound of Copenhagen label. Songs on the ep: Smoke and mirrors, Looking for love, Planes,trains and automobiles and Mine Mine Mine.
Band members are Nicolai Kornerup and Niels Brandt. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shanghai">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.