Its been years since Shattered Realm made themselves known to the world, and for once- all's been quiet on the front. Home from a summer out on the Eulogy Tour in August of 2004, SR is still biding time before they unleash their next hardcore/beatdown offering unto the world. After rigorous months on tour they've risen from budding hardcore stalwarts to regional monsters, Shattered Realm has made their anthem "This World Is Mine", a reality- conquering lands abroad as well at home at the most recent HellFest.

Having been learned on the ways of the road, they've built an impeccable resume of bands played with and shady stolen vans left on the side of the road. It seems as though their destiny awaits them in the summer of 2005. Due to the overwhelming success of their first full length, Alveran has planned on remastering and reissuing the mosh opus- "Broken Ties, Spoken Lies" with new artwork. A

fter what seems forever Shattered Realm shall be releasing their next full length tentatively titled, In the Absence of Light, Darkness Prevails in the fall on Alveran. On this recording they will unleash a brutality and metallic proficiency unseen in their previous efforts, backed by a raw, heavier sound. At the helm of this attack is the ever present guitar work of Joe None, articulate and yet devastating, backed by the youthful Danny their dual attack leaves nothing to be desired.

Through the headaches of lineup changes and fill ins, both Chris Rage (Fury of Five), Joe Hardcore (Punishment) and Jason Bailey (Figure Four) bring to the table the final elements to bring Shattered Realm to a level unseen previously. With their focus where it belongs and a slew of new songs, it won’t be long before Shattered Realm has torn down the roof at your local venue. Expect to see them out this summer and fall in support of both their releases and the Tour Is Hell DVD late this year throughout the US, Europe, and the World. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shattered+Realm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.