The very first record called COLORS has SHATTER produced itselves, it was recorded and mixed by Josef Zamecnik in his studio TRITON in Hradec Kralove in May 2001. We made a lot of fans by this record, it was sold under the K MAX 22:46 RECORDS. The critics were basically only good, ROCK&POP magazine found the COLORS as a record of the month.

We were really proud of it those days, Blaze says (guitar SHATTER), we did not do it bad at all. Despite to a year of recording we used a lot of new things such as vocal scratch, bongs, jumbe and Alena´s ladies voice as well, those made the record a bit diffrent from the others. It was not easy to specifie us in any particular kind of music. The music on this plate is really colourful, therefore it is called COLORS. We were called „a new generation of a smashing, shattering style“.
Still in the year of 2001 we went for a NEW METAL MILENIUM TOUR accompanied by the bands Dimension Seven (Holand) and Locomotive (CZ). Blaze says, this tour was very importand for us, good starting point, exactly. It was great playing concerts together with bands, they had a lot behind them. I mean concerting with bands like Machine Head, Pro-pain, Agnostic Front ETC. We have learned a lot and went through the outstadning, the most crazy parties ever. After finishing the New Metal Millenium Tour we have started doing concerts ourselves, basically the whole year 2002 we spent on concerts. We made a bunch of new fans and friends from SK8s, snowboarders and bikers. It was ugr.

Concerting during the year of 2002 on different snowboarding events and shows led us to a coorporation with the top czech snowboard rider David Horvath and his DHC Production Company Prague. As a result of this, VHS+CD was born, where all of those amazing SK8 tricks are followed by the Blindness of Faith song, made by Shatter. On 5. February 2003 Shatter is supporting Soulfly band on his concert in Prague, where Max Cavalera (ex Sepultura) is playing and shouting.

Blaze says, we had been chosen by Interconcerts Prague promoter, and according to a fact what the press and fans say, it was a great performance. The review from czech rock magazine SPARK about the concert you can find here. (The first featuring band Shatter did a great job, I guess. Their ultra heavy hard music, inspired mainly by Sepultura (surprisenly) sounded very good, they did what people expected from them. To make the blood running, to start up the energy and not to play for too long, though.).

In November 2003 Shatter recorded pre-production for its new plate in the LOCO studio, wich belongs to Mr. Rene Paveza (vocal and bass LOCOMOTIVE). Two major facts have happend after this recording. The second guitar player Milosh (ex SEBASTIAN) is entering the band and the main producer Milos Dodo Dolezal is starting the coorporation with Shatter. (Mr. Dolezal used to do bands such us cover version of Ramstein (Dwell Records,Germany), Locomotive, Colp, Tortharry). In May 2004 the second, official record POWER IN US is done, Mr. Dolezal provided his studio Hacienda. He did not only produced it, he has also mixed it and mastered it. K MAX 22:46 RECORDS is taking care of us again. Blaze says: „Milos Dodo made a video for our first single PRETTY FACE, it is about the home violence and we are very curious already, what the authorities are going to say on that.

Power in us record is copying our exact opinions, emotions, agression, there is a variety of melodies, changes and rhytmes, we worked pretty hard on it and we do belive, it would be succesfull. I would like to thank to all of you, who have supported us, such as to all of our fans. Thanks.

Jablonné nad Orlicí, Czech Republic
www.shatter.cz <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/shatter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.