1) Shattered Hope (Greece)

Shattered Hope's music can be described mainly as atmospheric doom/death – funeral doom metal.

The band was formed in Athens in July 2002. After many line-up changes, it was finally settled in December 2003 that Shattered Hope would be a six member band. Thereafter, the band played its first gigs at many clubs and open festivals, performing their own tracks as well as covers of My Dying Bride, Paradise Lost, Saturnus etc.

In June 2005 the first demo was released under the name ‘A View of Grief’ which included 6 songs. It received great reviews on magazines, fanzines and webzines. Moreover, the Greek edition of Metal Hammer rated it a 7,5/10. After that release the band played many live gigs for its promotion.

In November 2006, there was a line-up change as Nontas (lead guitar) left the band and Sakis, who had been previously playing the keyboards, replaced him while a new member, Eugenia, became the new keyboardist of the band. Under that new line-up Shattered Hope recorded ‘Promo 2007’ that contains two tracks. Many performances followed for its promotion.

In November 2007 another line-up change occurred as Pete (bass) left the band and Thanasis replaced him. More live performances in Greece and abroad 
followed, some of which along with well-known bands of the scene such as Saturnus, Mourning Beloveth, Ataraxie, Mar De Grises, Mourning Dawn, Ahab, Pagan Altar etc.  

Meanwhile the band was composing its debut album, which was finally recorded in December 2010 under the name “Absence”. It consisted of seven mournful stories. “Absence” was released by Solitude Productions, a remarkable and well-known doom label. A great co-operation with Lugga Music Productions and Adrian De Buitléar started for booking and promotional reasons. Shattered Hope promoted “Absence”, making a start with a support act to the godfathers of doom My Dying Bride, in January 2010- one of their most memorable shows. Also, the band participated in many great festivals such as Doom Shall Rise, Ghost Fest, Dublin Doom Day, Dutch Doom Days etc. in the years that followed.

At the same time, the band had started composing its second album which was released in February 2014 by Solitude Productions. “Waters of Lethe” is a more funeral and extreme shape of Shattered Hope’s music, consisting of six dark and heavy songs.

In February 2014, Shattered Hope became a five-member band, as Eugenia left the band. From that time on the band has been promoting its second album.

And so the story goes…
DOOM ON!! 

2) Shattered Hope (The Netherlands)

Shattered Hope was a heavy metal band from The Netherlands. The band was founded in 2002 and aims to produce bombastic, yet straightforward heavy metal. As important is that the band does not shy away from the experiment and therefore is able to create a modern sound in a genre that has been around for decades. Members are drummer Chris Nijboer and bassplayer Olav van Duin, whose job it is to put down a groovy sound as a base for the melodies created by keyboard, guitar and vocals. Guitar players Jord Elgersma and Arjen Booy, and keyboard player Harmen Voortman are responsible for topping of the rhythms with their melodic sounds. 

All members were formerly active in the gothic/doom band Hills of Eternity, except Arjen Booy and Olav van Duin. Olav was active in doom-band Covered in Ashes, along Chris and is still active in And It Rains, together with Chris. Harmen Voortman and Jord Elgersma were previously active in respectively Project Eaten Alive (Harmen), Feeble Minded (Jord) and Morbus Gnomorrum (Jord). Jord is currently singer of Total Depravity.

In the spring of 2009 singer Michiel van Schooten of the band Graf joins Shattered Hope. In the summer of 2009 they decide to make their sound heavier and to continue under the name Faces of Cain. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shattered+Hope">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.