In 2005 Benjamin Leanen came up with the idea to form a band. Owning a guitar and great passion for Death Metal he went searching for musicians. He found some but things did not really work out as they should so mid 2007 Benjamin kicks everybody out except for Robbie Cuypers and asks Sven Poets to join their forces. This is when Shattered Skull was formed. 

After writing songs together, the guys quickly realized that they would need a drummer fast. Fortunately they found one not long after, named Claudio Gielen. The writing improved quickly and a few months after Claudio got accepted, the band also accepted Stef Mikolajczyk on lead guitar. They started writing instantly, which paid off. 2 months after they met, they were already recording their first 4 track demo. In august 2008, Shattered Skull played their first gig and release show of their first demo “Hypocrisy From Above”. The bar covered 99 people, attendance was over 250 people. 

The following years shows kept on coming and new songs were written. In late 2009, the guys recorded their first EP “The Infinite Massacre”. The year that followed was harder for the band as they had to replace co-founder Benjamin Leanen. Yet they did not let their heads hang and won the Vlamrock pre-selections in 2010 as a 4 member band, giving them the opportunity to open up the main stage on the festival with big national and international hardcore and metal acts. A replacement for Benjamin was found shortly before the Vlamrock show, Niels Franssens took his place but after a while it became clear he didn’t have what it takes. So the band decided to go on as a 4 member band, playing louder, better and more brutal than ever before.

 Meanwhile, Sven and eventually Stef were asked to be part of the new band of Allen West (ex-Obituary, Six Feet Under) called SouthWicked. After touring Europe with SouthWicked for the first time in April 2011, it became clear that Shattered Skull needed to kick things up a notch… and so they did. In November 2011 they embarked on their first European co-headliner tour and also their first tour ever, playing with Noise Of Creation from Italy as support and legendary underground death metal band Abomination as headliner. 

Now in 2012, Shattered Skull is writing new material for a follow up of their 2011 released EP “The Infinite Massacre” and are more than ready to conquer the rest of the death metal scene with more shows, more songs, more touring and more BRUTAL FUCKING MUSIC.

Shattered skull is:
Sven Poets - Vocals
Stef Mikolajczyk - Guitar
Robbie Cuypers - Bass
Claudio Gielen - Drums
--
Bart Dils(predatoria) - tour guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shattered+Skull">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.