Formed in August of 2008, STI wanted to set a bar for how music should be written today. For 7 months, STI worked tirelessly to complete their first full length album. "We fought long and hard to write an album that would reflect all of our influences but would still have a signature sound that would be recognized for years to come. We hope that we have accomplished just that!" (Tony Banks - STI) 

In February of 2009, STI set out to record their full length album titled "Shed My Wings" a line from track 2 entitled "Fragile." STI had a short time frame in which to complete the album and ended up recording the full length album in an astounding 7 day stretch. After completing the album, they had run into a hitch while trying to complete the mastering phase. The mastering company had recieved the album, but was in transition of ownership. "We hadn't heard from them in quite sometime and had become worried that the album would be lost. Finally, we had recieved the album back and went with another mastering studio called Channel Fuse. We recieved the album in less than a week's time and were very pleased with the outcome." (Tony Banks - STI)

Now the album is in the duplication phase and is ready for release around the 26th of June. Please be looking for "Shed My Wings" in your area around July or August of 2009, when we will complete a mass duplication with distribution through Dark Star Records. Please visit www.darkstarrecords.com for more info about this Chicago label.

STI is ready to hit the scene hard and strong and guarantees an A-list performance each and every time. With hard hitting vocal melodies, melodic instrumentation and a powerhouse live show, there is something for everyone to enjoy! STI looks foward to coming to a town near you, so please visit www.myspace.com/shattertheirillusion for upcoming show dates and times as well as giveaways, prizes and merchandise coming soon!

STI would like to thank any and all who take the time to listen to their music and would like to thank all who have stood by them while making the transition into pro status. "We thank you for lending an ear and we'll see you on the road!" -STI-

Coming Soon - Our website at GoDaddy.com, so please be looking out for our new webpage! Cheers and have a great summer! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shatter+Their+Illusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.