Shaun Ross (born May 10, 1991) is an American professional fashion model and amateur actor and dancer of African descent, best known for being the first male albino model. He has been featured in photo-editorial campaigns in major fashion publications including British GQ, Italian Vogue, i-D Magazine, Paper Magazine and Another Man, and has modeled for Alexander McQueen and Givenchy.

Growing up, he dealt with a lot of discrimination because he was albino. He was bullied frequently by his peers, called names such as "Powder", "Wite-Out", and "Casper". After training at the Alvin Ailey School for five years, he crossed over to the fashion industry in 2008 at 16 years old, represented by Djamee Models in New York City; Ross is their only model on roster as of June 2010. He was also signed by AMCK Models London.

In 2009, Shaun Ross made an appearance on the Tyra Banks Show, announced by the host as "the first male albino [professional] model in the world". He shared the show with fellow albinistic African-American model Diandra Forrest; together they shared their life stories about how different life was for them. Later that year, Ross played a role in a short film by Yoann Lemoine which won a first-place prize in a contest sponsored by Italian Vogue. Ross also has worked with other directors, such as Julien Seri, Jason Last, Jessica Yatrofsky and Ella Manor in both film and television. Ross, who is bisexual, participates in the underground ballroom scene in New York, where he often vogues as a free agent.

Ross recently appeared in the video for Katy Perry's "E.T.". In the video, Perry, as an alien, drifts through outer space before landing on an abandoned planet surrounded by litter. Clips are interspersed of large felids hunting game. She comes across a broken robot, which at her kiss turns into a naked male.

Shaun Ross also just recently became the face of Ford Vehicles with the trendy slogan " Be Unique " along with other successful stories like the cover of TRAFFIC Magazine with Lady Gaga's Rick Genest.

Ross has more recently appeared in Beyoncé's "Party" video.

Shaun Ross has also been photographed by the photographer Jessica Yatrofsky. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shaun+Ross">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.