Poised to be next on the list of Toronto's many hot new musical exports, Shaun Boothe separated himself from the pack with his critically acclaimed Unauthorized Biography Series.  Inspired by Nas’ tribute to Rakim, Boothe’s Bio Series videos summerize the lives and legacies of a wide variety of cultural icons in rhyme form.  Getting blog love from Kanye west and tweets from Diddy himself, Boothe’s 6th icon to get the biography treatment for his ‘Huster’s Edition’, it’s clear that he’s getting the attention of the right people. 

With a small handful of singles floating around the net, the time has finally come for the release of a full body of work.  His first official project The Waiting Room is a compilation of previously released, unreleased and brand new material from the Toronto native. Serving as an official Thank You project for his current fans, and a Catch Up project for the rest of the world that has still yet to discover this raw talent, Boothe’s body of work will definitely wet the pallat and have listeners eager for more.  With his follow up project nearly at completion, the wait shouldn’t be long.

Boasting production from his go-to producer and cousin Nineteen85, along with a few self produced tracks, Boothe proves on every song to be an honest, thought provoking wordsmith - Soulfood in a fast food driven market. 

“Oh, your shoes match your shirt – that’s fire/My actions match my words – that’s flyer”

The overall sound is big, musical, sample driven and often pulling heavily on the raw and genuine emotions of a young kid climbing his way up and looking toward the stars. 

"Never had a plan B, this is all I even planned to be"

In an industry where your live show can easily make you or break you, Shaun Boothe is renowned for his conceptual and highly interactive performances – many of which have graced the opening stages of concerts for multi-platinum artists. Never satisfied with the norms, Boothe continually pushes the envelope in the live aspect of hip-hop. One can only imagine what a show it will be when his stars align and he moves from the side stage to the center. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shaun+Boothe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.