She Wants Revenge is a post-punk/darkwave duo hailing from Los Angeles, California who formed in 2005. The band is comprised of Justin Warfield (vocals, guitar, keyboards) and Adam Bravin (bass, keyboards). Accompaniment members Thomas Froggatt (guitar) and Scott Ellis (drums) join them on stage. The band have released three albums: "She Wants Revenge" (2006), "This is Forever" (2007) and "Valleyheart" (2011)

She Wants Revenge's music is hard to emcompass into a single genre or sound. It draws inspiration from several alternative rock and new wave artists. The band blends their influences with ever-present electronics (eg. synths and drum machines) in a style most accurately labeled under the umbrella term, "darkwave", a style of music reminiscent of the New Wave and Gothic Rock sounds of the 1980s.

She Wants Revenge have stated that they make "dance music" on numerous occasions setting them aside from the contemporary rock bands often falsely linked with the band in the music press.

History

Their self-titled debut, was released in 2006. They contributed a cover of 'Kindnap the Sandy Claws' to the soundtrack of the "The Nightmare Before Christmas" re-release. Their next LP release, 'This Is Forever' was released in 2007. They also were featured on a track 'Time', with Timbaland.

On Feb. 27th, 2008, She Wants Revenge parted ways with Geffen/Interscope to run their own record label called Perfect Kiss Records, from which they released an EP titled 'Save Your Soul'. A second EP followed in 2009, titled "Up and Down", which was released on the 22nd of September.  

On August 5th, 2020, Adam and Justin posted onto the official Instagram account of the band to announce their disbandment. They have confirmed that She Wants Revenge will not be returning, quote, "So, it's with a bit of sadness, yet crystal clear certainty that we say to you our friends, She Wants Revenge has run its course."

 Alongside the post, Justin wrote a letter to fans thanking them. This can also be found on their Instagram page.

After She Wants Revenge, Adam has continued his own work inside "Love, Ecstasy and Terror", also known as lovexterror. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/She+Wants+Revenge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.