She drew the gun, fronted by singer-songwriter Louisa Roach offer dreamy lyrically evocative psych-pop from the banks of the mersey. They released their debut album, memories of the future in april 2016, the record is the result of Louisa Roach meeting with producer James Skelly in 2015 and working with him at independent record label Skeleton Key records. Taking the bare bones of the songs - poetic narrative lyrics set to haunting riffs and melodies, they built up the tracks, developing an electronic element into roach’s sound. The result is a dark but dreamlike collection of stories from the songwriter’s life and imagination caught in a bubble of psych-tinged pop. Exploring more conventional subject matter like delicate and dysfunctional relationships, unrequited love and loss, but also veering outside the norm with sci-fi protest songs, or more subterranean subjects, like drugs, alcohol, addiction and inequality. 

2016 was a breakthrough year for she drew the gun, who won Glastonbury’s emerging talent competition. Festival co-organiser Emily Eavis said “they stood out in the most brilliant way – spiked indie with biting lyrics. Intense and great.” 

Now 2017 sees she drew the gun announce details of a reissue of their debut album, re-named as ‘memories of another future’. Released march 17 on Skeleton Key records ‘memories of another future’ contains the singles ‘poem’, ‘pit pony’ and ‘since you were not mine’ and also the addition of three brand new recordings - two original new songs, ‘sing’ and ‘you’, plus new single ‘no hole in my head’, a cover of a 1960s protest song by US folk singer Malvina Reynolds. “Malvina Reynolds is someone who’s really inspired me,” says she drew the gun’s singer-songwriter-guitarist Louisa Roach. “I love her music and her story. She only started her music career in her late forties, but wrote all these meaningful songs and became a legend of the folk song movement.” following the album’s release, she drew the gun will embark on their biggest headline uk tour to date, ahead of which they will make their debut appearance at sxsw festival in austin tx, where they play the bbc 6 music stage.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/she+drew+the+gun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.