For fans of: Real Estate, Pale Saints, Violens, The Chills, Mojave 3, Ride, Felt

She Sir (aka She, Sir) is Russell Karloff (vocals, guitar, bass), Matthew Grusha (vocals, bass, guitar), Jeremy Cantrell (guitar) and David Nathan (drums). Russell and Matthew met in college as music composition students and quickly put their collective knowledge of classical music theory and orchestration to use -- breathing new life into the guitar-driven dreampop genre. She Sir produced an EP and a 7” that have been included on such dubious lists as “Best of the 2000’s decade,” “Best of the year,” “Best out of Austin, Texas,” and many others. In 2010, Japanese label Happy Prince released a compilation of all their previous recordings to date gaining the band international recognition. With each new release, She Sir have been evolving to create their own unique brand of “shimmer-pop” -- a term coined by the Austin Chronicle to describe the band’s sound.

The band's newest album, Go Guitars, was recorded, mixed and mastered by Erik Wofford at Cacophony in Austin, TX. The ten tracks cover the vast overlap between My Bloody Valentine’s guitar experimentations, Fleetwood Mac’s soulful rhythm & bass, and Phil Spector’s skewed, wall-of-sound arrangements. The record also draws inspiration from 80s pop heroes The Go-Betweens, Pylon, and Felt. Motivated by the appetite for reinvention, She Sir have established a sound that is both modernistic and illuminating, yet faithful to the spirit of decades past. Surpassing their early shoegaze roots, they take their songwriting to ambitious new heights throughout the album. Edgy phrasing, driving rhythms, and multi-textured guitars, along with plenty of lush reverb-soaked pop sensibilities, make up the She Sir aesthetic. Like their partially imagined song titles, She Sir blur the lines of the familiar to create an impressionistic, contemporary sound, that transcends any direct comparisons to other groups present or past.

She Sir's highly anticipated full-length album Go Guitars was released February 25th on Shelflife Records (Portland, OR) on limited edition LP, CD, and digital formats.

She Sir alumni include ex-players with John Vanderslice, Ringo Deathstarr, For Those Who Know, The Envy Corps, Splinter, and The Hallelujah Crowd. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/She,+Sir">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.