Chinsea Linda Lee (born 1 October 1996), known professionally as Shenseea, is as Jamaican dancehall singer.

Shenseea was a promo girl until she was signed by Lemuel Samuel's Rockstar. She gained recognition after remixing the well-known Vybz Kartel's song "Loodi" and performing on a side stage at Reggae Sumfest in 2015, she took the main stage in 2017. As her notoriety grew, she toured internationally. Vybz Kartel and Shenseea then dropped a hot collab "Secret (Remix)" in October 2018. Alongside her singing career, she holds multiple corporate sponsorship deals with companies such as Telecom, Firm Flow, Boom and a Pepsi-Cola JA sponsorship.

In 2016, she won "Young Hot and Hype Artiste" at the Youth View Awards; Break Out Celebrity of 2016, and Collaboration of The Year for her song "Loodi" with Vybz Kartel which has been her most successful track to date.
In addition to dancehall music she has shown skills in freestyling as a rapper. She teamed up with Sean Paul for the 2017 single "Rolling" and on the leg of his 2017 European tour.

Since her rise to fame, she has done numerous tours around the world with her team Romeich Entertainment. She continues to work with other musicians both Jamaican and American.

She was featured on Christina Aguilera's 2018 album Liberation, on the song "Right Moves". After signing with Interscope records in 2019, she released a new hip-hop/dancehall track featuring American artist Tyga, called "Blessed" which has clocked in 55 million views on YouTube.

In January 2020, she collaborated with Jamaican record producer Rvssian on a single titled "IDKW" which also featured American rappers Swae Lee and Young Thug.

In 2021, Shenseea appeared on Masego's album Studying Abroad and Major Lazer's Music is the Weapon (Reloaded).
She also collaborated with Kanye West on his album, Donda, appearing on the songs "Pure Souls", alongside Roddy Ricch, and "Ok Ok Pt 2" with Rooga. She was also onstage during West's Chicago Donda event. For her collaborations on West's album, Shenseea received an Album of the Year nomination at the 2022 64th Grammy Awards, marking her first Grammy nomination.In 2021, Shenseea also signed with Wassim "Sal" Slaiby, aka Salxo, who also manages the Weeknd and Doja Cat. She won Best Reggae Act at the 2021 MOBO Awards.

On 21 January 2022, Shenseea released the song "Lick", featuing Megan Thee Stallion. The song is expected to be included on her upcoming debut album named "Alpha", which Shenseea said would be released on March 11th, 2022. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shenseea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.