Three artists are know as "Sherman":

1) "Sherman is the alterego of the Belgian singer-songwriter Steven Bossuyt.
Starting off with just the need to fulfill his urge to write songs, sherman ended up recording some demos with good friend, and now drummer of the band, David Demeyere. After playing several live solo shows in both Belgium and the UK, Sherman decided to take it to another level and moved to London, where he rented a 12 square meter flat and served coffee in a bakery/coffeeshop in hampstead. After hours he kept on writing songs and playing solo shows at several venues all over town, from 'Enterprise' and 'Dublin Castle' in Camden to 'Spice of Life' in Soho and 'Powers Bar' in Kilburn. After trying every new song he wrote in front of a live audience and receiving a good response, plans were made to record a single. First single 'On Your Side'  was produced by EMI publishing-signed multi talent Jeroen Swinnen. Backed up by David Demeyere on drums, Timothy Jacobs on bass and Gerben Hemelsoen on guitar, Sherman is now ready to hit the road as a full band."

http://www.shermantheband.com/

2) A Hong Kong pop singer, full name Sherman Chung (鍾舒曼).

3) A band, as follows:

we came together collectively around the time of falling leaves in the 4th year after the new millenium. if that's wrong i can blame it on phil, haha. umm...we play covers and some stuff that i've written. we've played in public a few times, at xmas parties and other such events. last year we played in KU's talent show. we played, 'the general' by dispatch and placed third. (interesting fact by Phil: Members of this band were in the 3 winning shows of the talent show). we've got some big plans for summer and what not. at one of our shows some lady told us she wants us to play at her wedding, so hopefully that falls through. we're gonna aim for the creamery and prom and for first at this year's talent show (with the help of some friends). but yeah, we definitely need to get some new stuff up for you to listen to, cause the stuff that's up now is crap, i'm not going to lie. (except for the alamo, cause that's just funny.) but anywho, thanks for all the support, all you folks have been grrrrrrreeaat. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sherman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.