Shortly after emerging in 2007, Sherif (born Nebil Sherif) quickly built a reputation as one of the Detroit’s most dexterous and innovative new talents. While performing his unique brand of tech-house in venues throughout the Midwest, Sherif was brought to the attention of the Bleu Room; Detroit’s premier electronic music experience (2001-2009) It was here, that Sherif skyrocketed to the upper echelons of the Detroit electronic music scene, opening for Josh Gabriel (Gabriel & Dresden) during the weekend of “Movement 2008” (Paxahau’s annual Detroit Electronic Music Festival). The success of this performance secured Sherif a rotation as one of the Bleu Room’s newest permanent resident DJs.

With his new residency in place and concentrated momentum, he returned to the decks and began mixing new tracks; making his internet radio debut alongside Dutch electro-house lord, Marco V. Sherif’s following grew across the Midwest as he established residences in Cleveland (Anatomy) and Windsor, Canada (Boom Boom Room) while continuing to impress his supporters and skeptics in Detroit (Bleu). Other notable artist Sherif has performed with include; Alan Fitzpatrick, Donald Glaude, Eurphun, Ferry Corsten, Josh Gabriel, Steve Porter, Oliver Giacomotto, Max Graham, Sultan & Ned Shepard, Second Sun, John Acquaviva.

In 2010, Sherif released Dope Speaker, which was picked up by Myth. Records but first making its way onto one of dance music’s biggest and oldest labels Perfecto. Owned by Paul Oakenfold, Perfecto released Dope Speaker on its latest compilation/artist album Perfecto Presents: Kenneth Thomas.

Whether in the studio or behind the decks, Sherif’s unique style is born out of the musical influences from his childhood — traditional Ethiopian sounds, classic orchestra and jazz. Realizing the power of music at a young age, Sherif set out to share his passion for pulsating rhythms with others. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sherif">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.