Biography:

A world music ensemble of original music, established in 1996 in a unique community situated in the Galilee Mountains, northern Israel.

SHEVA band members are coming from Muslim and Jewish backgrounds and the main theme in their songs is the call for peace in the Middle East and around the world.

SHEVA incorporates instruments from around the world and motives from the roots of Hebrew and Arabic cultures as well as tribal cultures, combining Biblical texts, Sufi prayers and eclectic inspiration from all traditions as well as contemporary music.

Shortly after their inception, SHEVA became a phenomenon in the world music scene in Israel, attracting thousands with their spectacular performances, filled with spirit and celebration.

Their first two CD's "Celestial Wedding" and "Day & Night" rapidly became the best selling world music CD's in Israel.

Soon after the Israeli success SHEVA toured the U.S. performing from coast to coast.  Following this successful tour, SHEVA were invited by the Dalai-Lama to the "Sacred World Music Festival" in which they created a special collaboration entitled: "Poetry of Peace - spiritual music of the Middle East" with Jai Uttal & Omar Faruk Tekbilek. Together they recorded a music prayer for peace called S.O.S. - Salaam Om Shalom. They were hailed for their perfomances in Los Angeles, San Francisco & New York.

Returning from this tour, SHEVA have recorded their 3rd album "Garden" containing this musical prayer recorded with Uttal and Tekbilek as a bonus track.

Since the summer of 2002, SHEVA has been performing around the world, including major festivals and pristigious events in Canada (Montreal Jazz festival), Australia (Woodford Festival), Belgium (Sfinks Festival), Spain (The Parliament of Religions, Etno Sur Festival), France, Switzerland, and more, all to raving reviews from audiences, press and national TV alike.

SHEVA released their 4th album in June 2005: "SHEVA - Live in Australia", recorded in 2004 during their intensive (21 shows in 23 days) and most successful second Australian tour.

SHEVA is dedicated to inspiring and uplifting musical experience, reminding every listening heart to the true peaceful and joyful nature of being. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sheva">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.