1. Black Metal band from Victoria, BC, Canada

Bandcamp

2. Brutal Death Metal band hailing from the depths of Hell. 

3. If the first Shibboleth release was a prime time television special, Experiment in Error is a theatrical, wide screen experience. Recorded over the span of three years under the watchful eye of Stuart Sikes (White Stripes, Loretta Lynn), the sophomore release began with a focus on the core of the band - organ, guitar, bass and drums. Several years of live playing tightened the band and the addition of drummer Jim White (Allison Krauss) is undeniable. After the initial tracks were completed it became clear that the material demanded a more detailed approach and many months of overdubbing ensued. Various and sundry vintage keyboards and synthesizers were acquired and put to use. The horn skills of Chris McGuire and Randy Graham were employed. The tambourine and shaker stylings of Matt Kellum captured. A new
guitar amp was purchased. Old guitar amps were borrowed. Seasons passed. Haircuts were received. And fi nally, one sunny day in March, Experiment in Error was removed from the oven and gingerly placed on the windowsill to cool. Serve at room temperature with a wedge of cheddar cheese and a pint of Guinness.

For just a moment, you are stranded in an elevator with the least-popular members of T-Rex, The Carpenters and The Kinks, long with George Jones’ hairpiece. The elevator shudders somewhere between the mezzanine and rooftop grotto, and suddenly you are rocketed skyward by the excruciatingly serene tones of Shibboleth.
Forty-fi ve minutes later the bell dings and you’re on your way back to the lobby. Shibboleth is Rich Martin (Keyboards), Don Cento (Guitars), James Driscoll (The Bass). The band performs live with a revolving cast of superstars on the drumset, but joining them on Experiment in Error is drummer Jim White. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shibboleth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.