There are many artists and groups called Shine. Sixteen of them are listed below, but we're sure there are more...

1. Shine released their first album “The Common Station” in 2008. The band drew interest by their supporting acts for Sia in London and for Morcheeba during their latest european tour. Shine’s music has since gained a worldwide audience (BBC, TV show ‘Ugly Betty’, compilations in the USA, in Europe and Asia, festival SXSW). After the release of the acclaimed EP, 'Shine featuring Terry Reid' (2009) they are now releasing their second LP, Judas and Mary' (2012). Personnel: Guillaume Simon, Laurent Houdard and Antoine Delecroix + Julie Gomel, Bendja. Website: http://www.shine-music.net.

2. Shahine El-Hamus, a.k.a. Shine, is a rapper from Amsterdam, The Netherlands. A well-known actor in Dutch films and TV productions, he released his début EP as a rapper, Mens Van Wie in late 2021.

3. Shine is a cantopop band in Hong Kong consisting of 2 members - 徐天佑(TienYou)and 黃又南(YouNam)

4. Shine is a solo project of dark ambient soundartist Schahram Poursoundmand. He released one concept-album called "Inthecentre". The main topic of this release is the process of diving, falling and melting into music, to listen, to feel and to see the focus of it, to unite the human existance and sound. More info and sound samples can be found over here.

5. Shine is the name of a Scottish folk trio of the three women Alyth McCormack, Mary Macmaster and Corrina Hewat. More info here.

6. Shine is an Italian band formed by Juan Pablo Aboytes (Voice, Chitarra), Stefano Croella (Guitar), Alessio Garofalo (Drums) and Simone Dalena (bass). More info here.

7. Shine was a jazz trio based in Barnstaple, North Devon. More information on Tony Oreshko's current projects at http://www.oreshko.co.uk/ 

8. Shine is a project put together by Bill Laswell featuring guitarist Buckethead and Shin Terai (profile). They released the record Heaven and Hell in 2004. More information about Bill Laswell and his projects can be found here.


9. Shine was a short-lived guitar band from Amsterdam, The Netherlands. They were active from 1993 to 1996 and were fronted by Richard Janssen, who had previously been succesful as frontman of Fatal Flowers (1984-1990). Shine made two albums: Boys (1993) and Modern Popmusic (1995). 

10. Shine was a Japanese Eurobeat trio. One of their albums was a non-stop mix of anime cover songs called Euro Anime-J.

11. Shine (aka "Shine MK") was an all female Christian pop group from England which was popular in the US for a time around the year 2000

12. The Shine - An Indie/Rock/Alternative band from Hull, UK. 

13. Shine - Аn Alternative Rock Group from Montana, Bulgaria.  http://www.myspace.com/shinebg

14. Shine - A French trip-hop band.

15. An indie rock band from Bloomington, IN, USA, active from 1992 to 1995. 

16. Stoner doom band from Poland. Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.