There are four bands with the name Shiner:

1) Shiner were a math rock band from Kansas City.
2) Shiner were a hardcore/emo band from Canada.
3) Shiner are a hardcore band from Aberdeen, Scotland.
4) Shiner are an indie band from Helsinki, Finland.

1) Shiner was a math rock band from Kansas City, Missouri formed in 1992. The group originally comprised of Allen Epley (guitar/ vocals), Jeff Brown (drums) and Shawn Sherrill (bass), before Tim Dow took over on the skins a year later. With this line up, the band found themselves sharing the stage with Season To Risk, Sunny Day Real Estate, The Jesus Lizard, Girls Against Boys and Jawbox among others before DeSoto Records released their debut EP "Brooks" b/w "Released" 7" in 1993. 

Following Shiner's first album Splay also put out by DeSoto, Paul Malinowski took over for bass duties after departing with Season To Risk in 1995. With HitIt! Recordings releasing their second full-length Lula Divinia two years later, Sub Pop took notice and followed with the single "Sleep it Off"/ "Half Empty" that same year. After a brief tour with HUM in 1998, yet another single "Semper Fi" b/w "Sailor's Fate" 7" came out a year after. With Jason Gerken taking over dums and Josh Newton manipulating the guitar, a third full-length studio effort Starless was released in fall 2000, and the band's swansong The Egg was released in 2001 hinting at a more experimental sound.  

Allen Epley currently plays in The Life and Times. Shawn Sherrill plays in Roman Numerals with Season To Risk frontman, Steve Tulipana. Tim Dow joined Ken Andrews in Year of the Rabbit.  Jason Gerken is playing in Open Hand. Josh Newton played for The Great Fire of Sixteen Sixty Six, From Autumn To Ashes,  Every Time I Die and  The Damned Things

2) Shiner was a Canadian hardcore/emo band active in the 1990's. Their 7" "Slightly Polished" was released by Slow To Burn Records in 1993. It was the first STB release.

3) Shiner are a hardcore band from Aberdeen, Scotland formed in late 2009. They released their  "Take Me Home" EP on June 18th 2010.
In 2011, after a few line up changes, began writing an album.

4) Shiner are an indie band from Helsinki, Finland formed in 2016.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shiner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.