Shinray was born on the ashes of other bands known as Earthquake, then Astron. It all began in 2002, when high school friends Benoit Serraillier (guitar), Guillaume Mazzilli (guitar, vocals), William Degryse (drums), Gregoire Jouanneaux (bass) and Manu campistani (vocals) decided to do their own handmade heavy metal, soon joined by Benjamin Dupré on keyboards, quickly taking vocals duty as well. Having met a significant success throughout various gigs, they decided to carry on after high school. Sadly, after two departures (Guillaume and William), Astron is left on the verge of death. Determined to continue, the three remaining members (Benjamin, Benoit and Gregoire) decided to hire Gregoire's brother, Nicolas, on the drums to continue as a new band. Shinray was born.

After three years and an increasing local success, Shinray finally releases its first effort on May 2010 as a self-titled debut EP, containing five of the earliest tracks from the band, making it a testimony of the early days of the band. This EP as been well-received by press and fans, praising this mixture of old British-style heavy metal and modern elements. A month later, Shinray wins local competition "Tremplins de l'Isère" as Best Metal Band, playing on 21st of June in front of hundreds of fans. Parting ways with Gregoire and Nicolas due to difference of motivation, Shinray immediately recruits Matthieu Budin (drums) and Stéphane Albanese, then Hugo Merabti (bass), which is the current line-up of the band. After a new year of gigs, Shinray plans to record its first album on the summer of 2011. 

Shinray's musical style is hard to define. On a basis of pure heavy metal, influenced by both NWOBHM and German heavy metal scenes (Iron Maiden, Helloween, Savatage, Stratovarius...), Shinray adds a lot of elements that differentiates it from traditional heavy metal bands. Having various influences, such as progressive rock/metal music (Dream Theater, Transatlantic, Spock's Beard, Neal Morse, Symphony X), thrash (Metallica, Testament, Megadeth), but also video game music (Nobuo Uematsu), jazz music (Pat Metheny, Marcus Miller, Keith Jarrett) and classical music (Beethoven, Vivaldi). Mixing all these elements with a lot of inspiration and a bit of humor, Shinray creates its own style <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shinray">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.