Shinin' Shade was Born originally as Madness City 4 in March 2005 from an idea by Allen Kramer (guitar, harmonica, VCS3, vocals) and Roger Davis (bass, guitar, VCS3, vocals), recruiting the drummer Fred Ferrari (drums, percussion, congas, vocals) and starting to experiment with special sound, combining their influences and creating a few fast songs of their own, always with a good dose of improvisation.
Starting as an hard rock band, this one switches to a generally much more experimental and challenging, always focusing on the trials as well as on the proposed expansion of the songs, and when, in June 2007, the drummer Ferrari leaves the band due to continued contrasts with Davis he is replaced by Greg Wonder (drums, percussion) a month after.
With the arrival of Wonder, the band focuses mainly on writing songs and personal structuring improvisations live, and at this time the final 'sound' of the trio begins to make head too, due to the peculiar character of three components.
After an appearance in May 2008, Mek Jefrey (lead guitar) meets Allen Kramer, completely debilitated by hunger, fact after which Mek becomes the forth member of the band. Test marking the end of adventure with three solo instruments, but opening the doors to a good improvement in terms of music, creating a really powerful 'wall of sound', also due to the young Jefrey on guitars, able to bring a breath of freshness in the group, which reacts positively to stimuli provided by a new role within the band.

In November 2008, the old name Madness City Band is changed to Shinin' Shade, and the songs from other artists begin to slowly disappear from the ladder in favor of their own songs.
During the month of February the quartet record the first Ep containing three original tracks. The EP is released on 28 February 2009, at 'Psychedelic Night Fest'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shinin%27+Shade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.