Formed in 2006, for a relatively new band Shit Outta Luck has a credible history. The band boasts x-members of influential Milwaukee bands like Wings Of Scarlet (Life Sentence Records) and Die Alone (Corrosive Records) and the guys all got together to “start the band we wanted to hear. Milwaukee has very few bands with attitude, anger, or heart”, said Shawn. While Shit Outta Luck is a big musical departure from the members’ previous efforts, they’ve all always run the gamut of musical taste – guitarist Mikey has been known to love glam rock, guitarist Louie loves the blues, bass player Casey prefers black metal, and guitarist Russ, drummer Chad, and vocalist Shawn love everything from Irish folk to Oi! and hardcore. Shit Outta Luck is the perfect amalgamation off all things brutal, honest, and pissed, and for those reasons the band has been able to land opening slots on shows with Municipal Waste, Agnostic Front, and Valient Thorr and have played some not-so-traditional shows at strip clubs and pig roasts around Milwaukee.

Organized Crime Records heard Shit Outta Luck’s first demo songs and was blown away by what the band was doing. Label owner Clint Billington said, “hearing Shit Outta Luck for the first time was so refreshing and so different from what’s been going on lately in the scene. They didn’t play re-hashed metalcore, they didn’t have any gimmicks, they were just fiery, menacing, and reckless. I was instantly hooked.” Asking the band about getting signed, they’ll jokingly provide a different story having to do with a dice game, booze, thugs, and prison, when in reality their signing happened like so many other things in the band’s history – through awesome friends with a penchant for helping each other out and it couldn’t be a more perfect partnership.

Shit Outta Luck’s musical debut, Family Tradition, was recorded in Milwaukee, WI with Tim Bleske over many wasted nights during the summer of 2007, and the album captures the nihilistic and straight-forward gritty rock sound that the band wanted to hear. Lyrically, Family Tradition touches on topics like drinking, women and the problems that come along with them, family (Shawn said, “…family has not always been there for any of us so this is all we have…”), bar life, and life in general. Musically, Family Tradition boasts sweet, groove-laden riffs a la Clutch’s Blast Tyrant and is just as fierce as Blood For Blood’s Spit My Last Breath while remaining approachable and classic like The Saints’ Stranded. Bottom line – Shit Outta Luck took their time recording their debut and most importantly, had fun with it, and it shows on their rousing and swaggering debut.

2007 will be an exciting year for Shit Outta Luck as the band will play every show they can around the Midwest and write, write, write. “This is all new to us, as far as music style, we have just now become comfortable in our writing together…”, said Shawn. Fueled equally by booze and their love for music and Milwaukee, you can expect great things from Milwaukee’s Best, Shit Outta Luck. 

Shit Outta Luck's brand of rock n' roll is for whiskey drinkers, trouble makers, brawlers and pub crawlers. Ignore the beer, this is the real Milwaukee's Best. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shit+Outta+Luck">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.