There are multiple artists that use the Shiver alias.

1) A UK drum and bass producer/DJ.

2) One of the many aliases used by Erik Van Den Broek to release breaks, techno, electro and acid music.

3) Industrial project with releases on Italian label Diazepam. "Distorted percussions and tape loops manipulation. Throbbing drone and field recordings. Pissed off lyrics/vocals".

4) A former visual-kei band. Please check Ｓｈｉｖｅｒ.

5) The alias of Michelle Barrett, most notable for the single "Deep Time" released in 2001. Shiver got widespread recognition through being featured on the fictional trance/dance radio station of the popular video game "Grand Theft Auto 3" in 2001.

6) A Swedish progressive rock band Founded in St. Gallen, Switzerland in 1967 (Initially as "The Shivers") - Disbanded in 1969

The SHIVER is known as one of the most legendary (and mysterious) Swiss psychedelic rock quintets in late 1960s. "Walpurgis" originally released in 1969 via an independent label Maris Musik is renowned as an LP covered in a weird sleeve drawn by H.R. Giger. In 2004 "Walpurgis" has been reissued as a CD with three bonus tracks via Garden Of Delights.

7) A San Francisco garage rock band, also known as San Francisco's Shiver

8) A melodic metal band from Fulda, Germany. 

9) An internet-based heavy-metal band. Despite the fact that band members have never been in a same room at the same time, the music lives through the band members mutual interests. Bands like Sentenced, Lacuna Coil and Charon are the best examples in the musical path that they have chosen.

10) A punk band from Pittsburgh.

11) A former psychedelic band from Switzerland (1967-1969). 

12) A Leeds experimental/instrumental band, consisting of Chris Sharkey, Andy Champion and Joost Hendrickx. http://www.shiver3.com/music

13) Popular Dutch pop/rock band from the late 90's - early 00's.
Most famous for their hit single Gate of Heaven, from their debutalbum Mirror.
The band (sort-of) reunited in 2018 for some live shows and writing of new songs. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shiver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.