Shocking Pinks is the project of singer/songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Nick Harte.

Founded in Christchurch, New Zealand, and currently based in Wellington, Nick Harte has played in many New Zealand bands such as the CM Ensemble, Hiatus, The Incisions, Montessouri, Laudanum, Luxor Dance Ensemble, Urinator, Solaa, The Brunettes, and Pig Out.

Released in 2004, New Zealand’s Shocking Pinks, AKA Nick Harte, burst onto the scene in 2004 with the seminal dance pop record Dance the Dance Electric (originally released on Pinacolada Records), which shared with the world Harte’s peculiar brand of uncomfortable dance punk intimacy. With dirty lo-fi production, sweet melodies, and unexpected aggression, Harte channels the demons of obsession and emptiness into darkly lyrical art. Managing to conduit James Murphy, Fleetwood Mac, and My Bloody Valentine through the swagger of Scott Walker, Shocking Pinks have perfected the sound of bittersweet melancholia that teeters on the edge of self-destruction. 

On October 5th, Dance The Dance Electric will be re-released via E/D/I/L/S Records in the UK; Spiral Jetta Recordings in France; Geertruida in The Netherlands; and via A Low Hum throughout the rest of the world. This new remastered release marks the first time the album will be available on vinyl, and nine previously unreleased tracks from the original sessions will be included with the digital release. In addition, Harte (and band) will embark on a three month Dance the Dance Electric World Tour, which includes performances in China, Europe, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand. 

After releasing Dance The Dance Electric in 2004 (which earned an 8.2 on Pitchfork) Harte was quickly signed to New Zealand’s historic Flying Nun label, which released Mathematical Warfare and Infinity Land in 2005. Shortly thereafter, Shocking Pinks landed an international deal with New York’s DFA label, first releasing a series of limited-edition vinyl 7” with remixes by The Glimmers, Deerhunter, and Eluvium, and then issuing the full-length album Shocking Pinks in 2007. Harte’s self-titled DFA debut compiled some of the best songs from Harte’s previous albums, and showcased his ability to carve out a raw and intense emotional space, that served as a stark counterpart to the party anthems of DFA electroclash label-mates.

While Harte did not formally release any music after 2007, they were years of great productivity; he toured, wrote for magazines, and collaborated on films. Then in 2014, after living through a devastating magnitude 6.3 earthquake tore through his come city of Christchurch, Harte released his sprawling, haunting, beautiful, and at times violent and alienating Guilt Mirrors trilogy via Stars & Letters Records. 

The Dance The Dance Electric World Tour begins September 8th at BigSound festival in Brisbane. www.shockingpinks.com. 

The Shocking Pinks gigging lineup has featured a large number of local New Zealand musicians over the years, including members of New Zealand bands such as The Brunettes, Secret Knives, Over The Atlantic, The D4, Leper Ballet, Pig Out, The Enright House, and the Tiger Tones. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shocking+Pinks">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.