Shogun is the name of more than one artist:
1. See Shogún for the alias of Cristián Heyne from Chile
2. US metalcore group
3. Drum & Bass artist Oliver Lomax
4. Shogun were formed by Alan Marsh (after he left Tokyo Blade) along with Danny Gwilym from Chinatown.
5. trance DJ & producer Andrew Chen
6. French rap
7. US rapper Jamal Alexander aka Shogun Assasson
8. NZ rap artist
9. Chiptune artist
10. See SHŌGUN for the Japanese rock band
11. Scottish Grime Rapper

4) Shogun was a British melodic heavy metal band. They released two full-length albums : 
Shogun  (1986)
31 Days  (1987)

5)  American-born Taiwanese DJ and Producer, Andrew Chen aka Shogun, has captivated audiences worldwide with his DJ skills and productions. As the former resident DJ of Ministry of Sound Nightclub, he has played alongside DJs, such as Tiesto, Paul Oakenfold, and BT. His sets were also broadcasted live on Ministry of Sound Radio. Shogun’s mixes can be heard on several radio stations including Digitally Imported (di.fm), Globalbeats.fm, Sense.FM and Discover Trance Radio. He also has a long-running radio show “Trancemission” which can be heard on Ensonic Radio, as well as a syndicated show called “The White Room Episodes”. Aside from DJing, making music on the computer has always been a deep passion for Shogun. Starting out with simple programs at an early age, over time he eventually progressed to Logic Pro and studied music theory. In 2006, Andrew graduated with an Audio Engineering Degree from SAE Institute of Technology. Equipped with a fully geared studio at home, his current productions of trance tracks was listened to by Aly & Fila, who featured the club stormer ”Nowhere To Run” on their 100th episode of Future Sound of Egypt Radio Show. Shogun’s productions have also landed him on a dance label. His tracks ”Nadia” and ”Connected” were picked up by the label Armada, and is expected to be out later this year. Andrew has also gained support from other DJ’s in the world throughout his production career. His first two releases “Panic Room” and “AT3″ were picked up and featured by Paul Van Dyk on his radio show Vonyc Sessions. 

"Shogun" is also an alias used by the alter-ego of UK based drum n’ bass producer Oliver Lomax for Trouble On Vinyl, R&S Records and Renegade Recordings. (Another alias is Artemis).

Cristian Heyne (Santiago, 1973) is a Chilean multi instrumentalist and producer. He has released the albums "Disconegro" (1996), "Demonio" (1998), "Alma" (1999) and "La Rata" (2004) under the name of "Shogun". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shogun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.