Showtek brothers Wouter (pronunciation : ˈʋʌutər ) and Sjoerd Janssen ( ˈʃuːrt ˈjɑnsə(n) ) are called world dominators leaving their mark wherever they go. They are selling out big shows on all continents, command the charts worldwide and work together with top DJ's and producers from all corners of the EDM scene. With their praised musical talent and distinctive sound they have broken through all ceilings and just keep on rising to extreme heights. 

Their characteristic productions, world acclaimed albums, award winnings and mind blowing performances have gained them recognition as ambassadors for the global EDM scene. In 2012 numbers came out that Showtek was ranked #17 in the Top 20 of music export products of The Netherlands. In Billboard Magazine they were rated as one of the top 10 highlights for Electric Daisy Carnival 2011 (world's biggest EDM event). Being elected by one of the most powerful music magazines, while performing with names like; David Guetta, Steve Angello, Tiësto and Steve Aoki is definitely an achievement which shows that the Dutch brothers have reached the top of the EDM scene. 

Music 
Since the launch of their first artist album 'Today is Tomorrow' in 2007, Showtek has been unstoppable; Year after year they have received awards on their music and performances and they even were the first act, within their style, to deliver the world famous "Essential Mix" for BBC Radio 1, with millions of listeners. In the same year Showtek's music got featured on the soundtrack of the international Hollywood blockbuster movie called, 'Bruno', by Sacha Baron Cohen. 

The second multi award winning album: 'Analogue Players in a Digital World' was unveiled in 2009 at the prestigious 'Amsterdam Dance Event' (ADE) and crossed genres in a way the scene had never experienced before. In 2011 they start co-producing music with an icon in EDM, that doesn't come any bigger then fellow Dutch man, Tiësto. It shouldn't be a surprise that their first official collaboration release was together with their new powerful buddy and was released as Tiësto & Showtek - "Hell Yeah!", which resulted in a worldwide top 10 hit. 
A totally new concept called "Crazy Collabs" was born out of this and raised new opportunities for the boys to collaborate with DJ’s / Producers from all musical corners. The second 'Crazy Collab' is Hardwell & Showtek - "How We Do", which hit #1 on Beatport within a week after release. The accompanied video clip got rated as “most viewed music video” on MTV USA in the same week. 

As a result of this tremendously successful story, the phone at the 2-Dutch headquarters doesn’t stop ringing anymore. And some of the major Dance labels have started throwing in offers to release Showtek’s music. 

Performances 
Showtek sold out solo events for thousands of diehard fans and curious spectators in every corner of the globe, from Asia and Australia to Europe and all the way to their new home The United States of America. They hosted stages on world famous festivals such as, Dance Valley (UDC) and ID&T/Q-Dance. In summer 2012 world's biggest concert organization 'Live Nation' snapped up Showtek for a 6 week 'Rock & Roll' bus tour, which brought Showtek to each corner in the states delivering show after show for tens of thousands excited clubbers. 

Watching and hearing Showtek is a joy to behold. Showtek's stunning live-shows, devastating DJ sets, and massive productions, have led to much deserved world domination. And they only have just begun.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Showtek">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.