Showbiz & A.G. is a hip hop duo from The Bronx. Showbiz is known for his production skills, while A.G. is a renowned lyricist. The two debuted on Lord Finesse's Funky Technician album in 1990, on two tracks each. A.G. rapped on the songs "Back To Back Rhyming" and "Keep It Flowing", and Showbiz produced the tracks "Back To Back Rhyming" and "Just A Little Something". The duo are flagship members of the Diggin' in the Crates Crew (D.I.T.C.), along with Finesse, Diamond D, Fat Joe, O.C., Big L and Buckwild.

[edit]
History

The duo's first release was an EP titled Soul Clap, released in 1992, also known as Showbiz & A.G. They released their debut album, Runaway Slave, the same year. A short version of their track "Soul Clap" was included on the album, as well as past recordings such as "Fat Pockets" and "Party Groove". The posse cut "Represent" featured the first album appearance of rapper Big L. Other album guests included Black Sheep's Dres, Diamond D, Lord Finesse and Deshawn.

In 1994, Showbiz & A.G. made a guest appearance on Black Sheep's second album Non-Fiction, on the track "E.F.F.E.C.T.". Showbiz soon shortened his name to Show, changing the group name to Show & A.G. Their 1995 album, Goodfellas, featured a darker sound than their debut. Guest artists on the LP included D-Flow, Lord Finesse, DJ Premier, Roc Raida, Dres, Method Man and Diamond D. The most successful song from the album is DJ Premier's Nyte Time Remix to the track "Next Level", the instrumental was later featured in a battle scene on the movie 8 Mile. Despite critical success for both of their albums, the duo was never commerically successful.

The two appeared on a number of D.I.T.C. projects within the next few years. They released an album, Full Scale, in 1998. Selections on the album included the title track and "Drop It Heavy", which featured Big Pun and KRS-One. The song was later included on D.I.T.C.'s self-titled group album, and A.G.'s solo album. In 1999, A.G. released his solo debut, The Dirty Version, which featured guest production from Show, Lord Finesse, Buckwild, Diamond D and DJ Premier. Guest MC's included Ghetto Dwellas, Fat Joe, Diamond D, O.C., Guru, KRS-One and Big Pun.

In 2000, Show & A.G. teamed up with D.I.T.C. to release a self-titled group album. Show produced the tracks "Get Yours", "Way Of Life", "Foundation", "Drop It Heavy" and "Weekend Nights". A.G. appeared on the songs "Thick", "Day One", "Foundation", "Drop It Heavy", "Stand Strong", "Weekend Nights" and "Tribute", a track made for Big L, who was murdered in 1999.

Show has not released a solo album, but has produced for artists like Big L, Big Pun, Das EFX, Diamond D, Fat Joe, Freddie Foxxx, KRS-One, Black Sheep, Lord Finesse, M.O.P., O.C., Organized Konfusion, Sadat X and The Pharcyde.

A.G. completed his solo album for Look Records titled Get Dirty Radio, released October 31, 2006. There has also been talk of another D.I.T.C. group album, but nothing has yet materialized.

A.G.'s Infected Intertainment and Record Label is currently celebrating the 15th Anniversary of the release of Showbiz & AG's legendary "Runaway Slave" LP, one of Billboard's Top Ten Underground LP's. "Runaway Slave" and "Goodfellas" are currently available for international distributors to acquire by contacting DITC_Reissue@expertism.net. Show & A.G. are formulating their new LP in a legendary studio, and A.G. will drop an EP/DVD by the last quarter of 2006. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Show+&+A.G.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.