SHRUM was created by Audie T. Pitre in 1995 when he got the idea of putting two bass players together in order to create a brutal sound. He shared this idea with Tommy Viator and they began creating what was the beginning of SHRUM.

They were undecided as to who they would get to fill the second bass position. They asked Joseph J. Fontenot (Shredding Lettuce) if he would be interested in the concept of forming a band with two bassists, drums and vocals... enter second bassist, Joe.

The only question now was, who could they possibly get to become the vocalist... this would complete the "total package". Audie was a member of Louisiana's most notorious metal band Acid Bath, and their singer Dax Riggs was the first one considered for the vocalist position. Dax went to one of the band's jam sessions and worked on a song. A song that would eventually become "Tears Of A Marionette". Dax's melody was perfect for the song but his lyrics just didn't work. Plus, Dax lived very far away from everyone else in the band, so it just didn't work out, unfortunately.

Scott Leger (FLESH PARADE)  would listen in on SHRUM's jam sessions. He said that he was a vocalist, but none of the band members had ever heard him. He was asked to try out for the vocalist position in SHRUM. The first practice he came to was very rough... he was trying to mimic Dax and that was definitely not what SHRUM was looking for. "We wanted something original" says Joe. Audie then told Scott that he should be himself and sing with emotion. With that said, entered the brutal vocal style of Scott Leger Jr..

SHRUM was on the verge of playing live shows, when abruptly Audie Pitre's life was taken in an automobile accident, along with his parents' lives. Red Devils and Purple Ringers was released to raise money for Audie Layne (Audie's son). The tape sold extremely well... eventually selling out completely. SHRUM completed its first show with Kelly Pitre (Audie's little brother) filling in on bass. It was an outdoor block party.

http://www.myspace.com/shrumtribute   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shrum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.