Challenging. Powerful. Diverse. Epic. These four words are the mantra that Shuddersome abides by. Their music is always challenging, not only demanding to play, but also mentally challenging for the listener. The lyrics force one to search for one's own personal deep meaning, and the emotion painted by the music decorates the canvas of the song strikingly. Shuddersome's music is always powerful. Whether it is a thunderous, fast-paced assault, or a slow, moody interlude, the music is always spellbinding. None of the material sounds like filler, with special attention and consideration given to every note played. The music Shuddersome creates is also diverse. While very much being a metal band, Shuddersome touches on many influences throughout its discography. From alternative to Viking, black to thrash, death to stoner, and all in between, there is a hint of many influences in the songs; while some influences stand out more than others in individual songs, the listener can still tell that this is Shuddersome playing it. Their diversity has allowed them to play with several national bands, from extreme power metal titans 3 Inches of Blood, Twisted Tower Dire, Widow, and Herod to the death metal band Origin, the thrash metal powerhouse Rumpelstiltskin Grinder, and the stoner legends Alabama Thunderpussy. There have also been many other incredible bands that have shared the stage with Shuddersome. The music they create is also epic. Orchestral and keyboard arrangements embellish the songs, as technical fretwork from the twin guitars provide an intricate dynamic over the razor-sharp drumming and bass work, laying down a rhythm like no other. Written to be larger than life, Shuddersome always delivers, with tales of arcane mythology and horrific cataclysms brought alive through the power of their imagination. Shuddersome has made it their mission to break barriers and defy traditions. They will continue to do so in the future, and the future only looks brighter.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shuddersome">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.