There are two artists going by the name of Shura.

1) Alexandra Lilah Denton (also known as Aleksandra Lilah Yakunina-Denton, born 17 June 1991 in Hammersmith, England), known professionally as Shura, is a British singer, songwriter and record producer. She is best known for her work in the genres of electropop and synth-pop. Shura released her debut single Touch in February 2014. She started to record with Hiatus in 2011 with their project Hiatus & Shura. Her debut album Nothing's Real was released on 8 July 2016 via Polydor Records.

Shura grew up in Manchester. Her mother is a Russian actress and her father is an English documentary filmmaker. Her parents divorced when she was three. Shura has two brothers, including a twin, Nicholas, who has starred in four of her music videos: "Touch", "White Light", "2Shy" and "What's It Gonna Be?". She began playing the guitar when she was 13 years old and started recording music at 16. Shura had been a promising footballer in her youth and played for Manchester City from under 11 to under 16 level. While reading English Literature at University College London, she formed a band with guitarist Patrick Duncombe and collaborated with producer Hiatus (Cyrus Shahrad). Shura took a gap year after her university studies and developed her songwriting skills while working in the Amazon rainforest.

Shura is an out lesbian. In summer 2014 she experienced a severe panic attack, which she described as "feel[ing] like I [was] dying." Her stage name comes from a Russian short form of her first name. Shura is also fluent in Russian.
https://soundcloud.com/shura

2) The Russian dance/pop singer Alexander Medvedev, born on May 20 1975 in Novosibirsk (correct tag Шура). He is a self-made artist who never studied music professionally acquiring his experience at the local restaurant in Novosibirsk where he had been singing since the age of 13. 

 After completing the designer studies in the city of Riga, Latvia, he moved to Moscow to pursue music career under the pretence of being a foreign pop star. His personal life was wrapped in mystery despite his rapid shot to stardom and much talk caused by it nationwide. And the talk was not always a pleasant one. Giving him credit for his extraordinary gifts and merits in music people noted unanimously that he was very hard to deal with. 

The rumor has it that Shura enraged the whole crew at the shooting of his first video Cold Moon. He was angry with just about everything; the plot, the cast, the crew, the director, even the weather. And he was expressing his indignation very fervently, stomping, shouting. He found two cross-dressers at the site of the filming (actually, Candyman gay club in St. Petersburg), brought them to cast and demanded 200 dollars' fee for each of the two. 

1997-1998 was the most fruitful period for him as he released his major hits Cold Moon \Holodnaya luna\, Summer Rains Ended \Otshumeli letnye dozhdy\ which were in heavy rotation and topped many charts and radio airplay counts. 2001 earned him another success with Do Good Things \Tvori dobro\ single. He was extensively touring Russia and it was the time when he started to develop his now trademark bizarre feminine outfits and iridescent stage persona. Another notable feature of the performer's image was his toothlessness of which he constantly boasted, singing with conspicuous lisp (at least on his first three albums as he had had his teeth fixed later on). Since 2001 his fame began to fade and for the past 6 years he has moved out of the limelight. 

He continues to tour Russia and post-Soviet countries today, performing chiefly his old material and playing small venues like night-clubs or private parties for business tycoons. In 2010 he put out a new single Balloons (Vozdushnye shary\ to almost zero publicity. 

Shura is reportedly gay though in May 2010 he revealed the prospect of marrying Liza, his long-time friend.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shura">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.