1) Shye (Full: Trinity Shye-Anne Brown) is a 20 year old DIY producer/ singer-songwriter and full-time student who creates her own magic in her bedroom. Introverted by nature, the process of self-expression is both comforting and exhilarating and has helped to draw her out of her shell.

Self-taught, Shye started out watching tutorials and experimenting. Her unexpected foray into the scene was a happy accident that jumpstarted after she became the youngest to win Vans Musicians Wanted at 16.

She played her first show in Guangzhou and has played at Baybeats (SG) and Urbanscapes (KL), alongside acts such as Boy Pablo. She has also opened for Superorganism and Sales. One of Shye’s memorable experiences was opening for Clairo on her tour in SG. 

Following the release of her EP, Augus7ine, in 2018 and subsequent singles, Shye released her debut 14-track album, “Days to Morning Glory”. It landed a spot in “NME’s Best 25 Asian Albums of 2020” and won the award for “Album of the Year” at the Youth Music Awards in SG. 

Happy to stray away from the script, Shye writes her own rule books as she goes along. Forging her own path, pushing her own boundaries and creating comfort zones for her own convictions, she strives to stay true to herself and create a sound that’s uniquely Shye. She hopes her brand of electronic pop has something different to offer to listeners, that it not only entertains but makes them feel understood.

@shyemp3 on twitter

2)  Shye (Full: Shye Russel) is a 24yo trans woman living in Australia. She is known for her two creative outlets, her music or puzzles. Her other aliases include Shye Russell, Q, or A Clever Alias. 
Shye started producing her own music circa 2016 while she was finishing up school. Two years later, she found her style of electronic/glitch/ambient soundscapes with fantasy/magical themes. She is currently on a musical hiatus, as her usual style no longer excites her to produce, but the new vision she has in mind seems out of reach for now.

She produces music in the following genres: Ambient, Folktronica, Indietronica, Field Recordings, Glitch, Electroacoustic.
The following albums/EPs are produced by her: To Where Wings Rust, For Sale, Woolgatherer’s Pond, Venn, Obscura, Scrapyard Scrapbook, Isolation (Quarantainment Set), Moving Boxes, Sounds to Drown to, Anonymity, Looking Up, happi, Heart of Mechana

@shyeheya on twitter

3) Other productions from artists named Shye, with a limited discography (unnamed artists have no other aliases):
- Albums: Lavish Dreams & Addictions, Follow My Lead; Single: Darrick’s Prime (Freestyle) 
- Single by pocle shie dale: Gore Party 
- Single: Squad, Lifestyle (Chicago) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Shye">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.