There are several bands called Siam

1.SIAM is a young Belgian songstress. Siam first popped up on the radar when she dropped her debut single Same Thing. But even before that she was doing her thing as she was getting airplay on national radio as a vocalist on Merdan Taplak‘s ‘Troubles In My Head‘. The young songstress has also been selected for "De Nieuwe Lichting", a talent hunt organised by public radio station Studio Brussel. May I remind you that she’s only 19 and that the best is yet to come for this promising artist.

2. Siam a duo from Colombia whose debut album siam was nominated for a Latin Grammy Award in 2011.

3. Siam was a new-wave Band founded on 1983 in Tel-aviv, Israel. The band members were: Jeff Shapiro (vocals, guitar),Hadar Goldman (Electric Viola) ,Iftach Uri and later Yossi Fine (Bass) and Danni makov and later Aharon yedidiah(Drums).

in 1989 the mini album "War and Peace and In-between" was realesed.
and after a long hard road finally the band's first album "siam" was released in 1996 after a reunion show.

Update 2008: Siam is now renamed CIAM, and have indeed released a new album, anonymous for free download via their official website as well as here. Their sound is not much different than in the 80s.

4. Siam was(is?) also a melodic/progressive metal band from Birmingham England in the mid 1990's.  The band members were:  Tony Mills (vocals), Darren Horton (guitar), Chris Ward Evans(guitar), Andy Faulkner (bass), Pano Moularis (drums).  

This lineup released the album The Language of Menace in 1993. Later Ian Richardson replaced Chris Ward Evans, and Marcus Thurston replaced Darren Horton for the album Prayer, which was released in 1996.  Despite some acclaim in the media, the band never toured much beyond a few acoustic gigs in England, and disbanded soon after.  

There has been talk as late as the summer of 2006 of a reunion and possible recording of a new album (this has been spotted on Tony Mills' website), but nothing has been announced. 

5. Siam was also a synth-pop band featuring Jacqui Brookes that released three singles in 1981 as well as a live album. Brookes went on to form Intro.

6. Siam was also a band formed at King's High School, Dunedin, New Zealand in the 1990s. They had several songs on the album produced by the school "Smells Like Room 35".

7. There is also a goa trance artist called Siam. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Siam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.