Sianna was born on September 1st, under the zodiac sign of Virgo. She is a very bright, creative and talented person, who is extremely passionate about her music.
“I am passionate about different types of music. Most people in today’s society focus on one genre, but I think the good music needs the “Right” listener who understand it. I don't really care about genres. If I like the song and it makes me feel good… that's all that matters to me.”

Born to a Ukrainian father and a mother with Romanian roots, Sianna moved to Romania at the age of 19 and was granted Romanian citizenship few years later.
“My childhood was really happy. I grew up in a small town, called Orhey. I had the right balance of being loved and having freedom. It was not an oppressive love, but I never felt unloved. I had no brothers or sisters but I always had a lot of friends. My family from my grandparents to my parents has helped to make me who I am today. I can easily remember how happy and how much fun we had together. I discovered my passion for music and dance at an early age, so I used to be in dance, music or painting classes, all my childhood. A little bit latter I attended to my first poetry class and I never stop writing after that. But the best gift my parents gave me besides education, are moral and social values that guide my live, and that’s what I am grateful for.”

Sianna began her musical career at the end of 2007, as a member of Euro-pop duo "MR & MS" with a popular musician and producer Radu Sirbu well known as a member of the popular boys band “O-zone”. The first single of the project, written by Sianna & Radu Sirbu “Love Is Not a Reason to Cry”, signed with Universal Music, was released in March 2008. At the end of 2008 “ Love is not a reason to cry” was nominated on RMA (Romanian Music Awards) in the category “Best New Act” and few month later, the band has released the first album of the project, titled “Heartbeat”. “Heartbeat” is a compilation of pop rock R&B and electro influences. All the tracks on the album were composed by Sianna & Radu Sirbu, who is also the music producer of the album.
“MR & MS project was a great experience for me and I'll never forget it. First video, first television interview, first stage experience …first steps to my dream. Of course, each first step is almost always accompanied by fear of not being good enough. And for me, at the beginning, the fear was huge, but I become stronger with every step, because I had the love of many wonderful people.“

Besides her career as an artist, Sianna has continued to focus on songwriting and collaborations with others artists. As a result, Sianna was involved in writing songs like “Single Lady”, “Don’t Cry”, “City Of Sleeping Hearts”, “Lambada Night”, “Goodbye (Beautiful Eyes)”, “Don’t You Stop The Music”, “Radio Waves”, “Drive”, “Big Girl”, “I Don’t Wanna Lose You”, “Mister DJ” and many other compositions. Most of them became big hits across Europe and CIS.

One of the most successful song “Single Lady”, written next to Radu Sirbu for Dj Layla’s project, was launched in December 2008 and quickly climbed to No.1 position on biggest radio stations in Romania and Moldova. The song became a big success in many European countries. “Single Lady” song gave a major lift to Dj Layla's international career. The single stayed in the Russian 100 Top Hit over 40 weeks and totalized over 570 000 plays on 120 radio stations from 556 Russian cities and became No. 1 on the biggest Russian radio - Europe Plus Moscow in only few weeks. The same happened on another big radio stations across Europe and CIS. In early 2010 "Single Lady" have won the category “Most Broadcasted Song - 2009” on Radio Romania Actualitati (RRA Awards).
“I cannot describe my feeling when a song composed by me wins something or have a huge success… It is the feeling of indescribable joy and happiness. All of my songs are like my children, so I enjoy every success, no matter how big or small.”

By the spring of 2010, Sianna had begun to work, on her first solo album, next to her music producer Radu Sirbu. Sianna recorded a few songs but none of them was chosen as a single. A Few Months Later Sianna returned to the recording studio, to work on new material. ... The experiment resulted in an song called "Sweetest Pie", which became Sianna’s first official single and was released in December of 2010.
“I loved this song from the very first moment. When Radu sent me the full & final version of the song, I said - That's exactly the song I've been waiting for, it’s my “Sweetest Pie” and it's all about me…”

Sianna currently lives in Bucharest/Romania, she speaks three languages (Romanian, Russian and English) and beside singing and songwriting her passion is fashion. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sianna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.