(For the Finnish composer, please retag your music as Jean Sibelius.)

SIBELIUS is a Venezuelan Project. Founded in 2004, fundamentally based on instrumental neo-classic musical tendencies. Philipp Scheer, its founder and the Group’s Guitar, received classic musical instruction at a very early stage of his life.

Philipp originally decided to study and specialize in Violin, but a severe wrist fracture at the age of sixteen rendered him unable to continue. Despite frustration with the injury, his commitment to music led to broader aspirations.  He studied Drums for a number of years, playing with diverse bands, incurring a knowledge of non classical music. As time passed and his musical prowess grew, Philipp had a strong desire to return to strings.  He began to compose and learn other instruments, eventually choosing the electrical guitar as his favorite. His guitar playing combines classical techniques with the versatility learned while studying drums.

Profound studies, techniques and exercises practiced in violin render it easier to apply and play the Electrical Guitar. Also, thanks to the musical experience with other instruments ,performances at concerts, for example in Mexico, chamber music, philharmonic orchestras, participation in events with diverse number of groups….,render the birth of an IDEA … To CONCENTRATE all of the above INTO ONE, by joining and integrating Classic music and Rock, placing the Electric Guitar into a concept equaling a Violin Concerto. All of this gives way to the birth of the Group “SIBELIUS”.

During “SIBELIUS’ “early beginnings, musician and composer Jorge Rojas is invited to join the Project as a second member of the Group.

Both Jorge Rojas and Philipp Scheer are peers at the Emil Friedman School where Jorge takes up piano during his childhood years, but the need to incur into other musical instruments at an early stage, he learns, in a self made manner, to play Drums, guitar and bass, all oriented to Rock Music. His latter musical instruction is carried out at the Musical Ars NovaSchool, graduating Suma Cum Laude in composition. Jorge’s compositions and arrangements have been played at numerous concerts and festivals such as the well known Festival a Tempo, Festivales de Vientos Madera de Venezuela, amongst others. Jorge furthers his studies in Paris under the famous Argentinean Pianist and composer Carlos Roque Alsina. On the return of Jorge to Venezuela he participates in various projects and forms part of several musical bands.

One of the principal ideas of SIBELIUS is to invite and include diverse musicians to perform at concerts and recordings, thereby joining styles and new musical proposals allowing constant evolution.

SIBELIUS launched its first record “REBELLION”, in March 2008. It took four years of perseverant dedication to fulfill this dream. More than a goal it became an obsession. To finish a record which would include paramount quality in order to satisfy the highest expectations directed to both a national and international public. So as to achieve this goal Philipp Scheer composes the voices for guitars, Jorge Rojas the basses, drums and orchestration for all themes involved. Once this was completed, it was sent to Spain to the pioneer of virtual orchestration, Eduardo de la Iglesia who has worked with numerous productions (commandos 2, Comandos 3,Pc,Xbox and Playstation2,PCFootbal). Eduardo was the winner of the musical composition MIDI for PCMania Magazine .Soprano Ninoska Camarco sings the only vocal theme of the album,


* Official site
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sibelius">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.