The band was formed in 2006 in Dunaújváros, Hungary.

Current formation:

Tamás Virág (Viri) - 6strings and vocalman
Geri Kovács (Geri) - sologuy
Dániel Kővári (Danika) - keykiller
Péter Feltóti (Feltó) - submonsta
Sándor Dudás (Sanyesz) - pounder 

Our music’s style is a kind of "northern extreme death metal". High speed, power, and melodies are typical in our music. The main influences are melodeath, and progressive metal styles. All of these components are merged in a specific Sicitur Adastra way. ;)

The name of the band represents us and the way we try to live and work on our music. :) Originally it’s from Vergilius (Sic itur ad astra) and means "Such is the way to the stars".

In the last three years we had many gigs over the country. The band also participated in Emergenza Band Contest and III. Rock Caffe talent scout contest, and has been applied to the Underecords Management (since that, tha band has a manager - Balázs Kristóf). In 2007 we had some gigs at larger festivals for example KASZA or Tos-fest. Our first EP, "From My Spine" was recorded in 2007 at Audioplanet studio under the hand of Jaya Hari das. After that we went for a 2 month tour in Hungary.

During the year 2008 we wrote a lot of songs and spent some time on building Geri (lead guitarist) into the band. Sadly, some months later we had to say goodbye to our previous keyboardist Dienes Zoltán, beacuse he became a proud father :)

In 2009 we found "our man" Dani, who kicks some keyboardist's ass :D We started to play live again. We participated on Rockmaraton's Local Heroes band contest, and managed to win our day, so we will be there on a bigger stage next year. In October 2009 we finally recorded our secound EP called "Still Unbroken" with Attila Mazán (Gyöngy stúdió), which is a so-called prelude to our upcoming first studio album.

Our goal in 2010 is to record a complet album... and to raise hell. :)


http://www.myspace.com/sicituradastramusic
http://sicituradastra.hu
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sicitur+Adastra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.