There are multiple artists named Sickness:

1) Sickness started in the early days of 1986-1987 as a tape-loop / industrial music project. He started doing vocal noise, and feedback using a Zoom multi-effects processor. He built his own tape loop machine, and some pedals as a basic setup. Sickness noise was multi-layered tapes using the old Les Paul method of recording or direct "live" improv sets. Continuously adding of dubs/layers caused the loops to become muddy and noisy. This layered with screams, grunts, groans, vocals, whispers, etc. and a lot of delay was how SICKNESS started out. It has evolved over time moving from your traditional guitar pedal improv to custom made electronics and triggers. Currently the sounds are made using modular synth and laptop to create jarring spastic noise that puncture acoustic sounds and field recordings.  SICKNESS has toured extensively in the US, Japan and Europe bringing his brand of harsh electronic purity and scumbag electronics to the world.

2) Sickness was a death metal band from Florida, United States, founded in 1992. Released a full-length album titled "Ornaments of Mutilation" in 1995.

3) Sickness was a death metal band from Letovice, Czech Republic, founded in 1992. Released the demos "The Spiral of Life" (1995) and "The Storm of Fate" (1998).

4) Sickness is a d-beat / crust punk band from France.

5) Sickness (born 17 February 1990, previously known as LGB) is a hip-hop artist and music producer fromPopovo, Bulgaria.
He is part of the Bulgarian hip-hop group North Central. He was first influenced by rap music when he heard the cassettes of the Bulgarian hip-hop group "Гумени Глави" which elder boys used to play loudly in his neighbourhood.
Sickness himself has started rapping with street freestyles. Later his friend, Enzo, has invited him to do some open mic recordings in his home. Sickness started writing songs in the year of 2004. Together with his fellow friends and rappers Enzo, Dodger, Psycho and Jada they formed the hip-hop group PSG (Popovo Street Gangsters).
During this period the group was recording songs in "Studio V" in the nearby town of Gorna Oriahovica.
With PSG, Sickness (under the name of LGB) and his mates from the group have released several songs which became widely played and recognized amongst young people and in discos in the local region and cities.
The group eventually draw serious attention with the release of the music video of their hit single "На купона" ("At the Party"). After the initial success of the group, Enzo has decided to spend money on studio equipment and hardware in order for the group to establish a recording studio in their birth town Popovo.
In 2009 Jada has retired from the group and PSG was renamed to North Central. In 2010 Sickness starts working on his solo album "Моят поглед" ("My View") which by the end of 2011 is completed.
The album features old school underground and new school hip-hop sounding. Themes in the album range from everyday's hard life struggles to people who criticize music, social protests and optimism about future.
Currently Sickness is working together with North Central on their upcoming album.

6) Sickness is a black/death metal band from Turku, Finland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/sickness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.