The band Sickening was born in Firenze, Italy, during December 2003 with the intent of playing a classic death metal of a pure american breed. Within a month from its birth the band settles down with Alessandro and Andrea on guitars, Claudio on vocals, Marco on drums and Lorenzo on bass; the harmony between members and the will to play quickly lead to the creation of songs upon songs, to the point that the first live show is performed on May 2004. More songs and more concerts keep coming during the following months, till - during October of the same year - the band goes in the studio to record the first demo, "Deceptive truth". The disk, recorded at the "Underworld studio" of Filippo and Giacomo (Dysthymia members) in Colle Val d'Elsa, comes with four direct and brutal tracks; the recordings see the end only on March 2005 because of lack of time and for the departure of Lorenzo due to his getting away from the metal environment. Therefore, the bass parts have been recorded by Alessandro, while Dario will come forth to become a permament member only a month later, completing the line up. On September Marco left Sickening for work problems: drumming duties have been taken over by Beppe. On December of the same year the "Deceptive Truth" demo has been released by Eyes Of The Dead Productions as a splitCDR with Zora, a death metal band from Vibo Valentia. During November 2006 there is yet another line-up change: Marco (not to be mistaken with the homonymous guy of the very first Sickening line-up) takes Beppe's place on the drumset.
The first full-length album of the band, called "Ignorance supremacy", recorded and mixed between July and September 2007 by Lorenzo Bellia at "Play Loud!" in Florence and released March 22th 2008, is now available byNice To Eat You Records and officially distributed by Sevared Records in the USA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sickening">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.