There are three artists with the name SICKBAG:


1) French grindcore band with influences from bands like Carcass, Napalm Death, , Misery Index. They formed in 2003 and put out their first EP, "A perfect world of shit", in 2004 after a demo, in 2003, "Vomiting reflex". They then shared a split album with three french grindcore bands, Disaster, Elysium and Desecrator followed by  the album "Bushido codex", in 2006 on Deformeathing Productions. Their latest album, is "Shade Among Shades" on the Destructure label in 2010.


2) Polish Sickbag started to function as a band in Spring 2002. Back then the band consisted of 4 musicians: Artur Laski (drums), Rafal Kubisiak (vocal), Pawel Godnarski (bass) and Daniel Gozdzik (guitar). Good spirit in whitin the band and experience resulted in recording demo "First Time" and this was after only 3 months of rehearsals. Early in 2003 band recorded another demo CD "From The Inside". With a guest Arek Kepka from Wrinkled Fred performing in composition Never Again. In Spring 2003 new musician joined the band Krzysztof Wrobel (guitar) and DJ Lukasz Godnarski. And with these new guys band quite successfully performed at Rock May Festival (Skierniewice 2003) where jury with Tomek Lipa Lipnicki awarded 3 equal first prizes one for Sickbag. In November 2003 Sickbag recorded in studio 2 compositions, known from the first CD First Time as well as a new one called Your Own Way a while later Krzysztof (guitar) and DJ Lukasz leave the band. In October 2004 another player leaves the band, this time it is Pawel Godnarski (bass) and is replaced by Piotr "Gruby" Milczarek. Group of players performes together regularly since November 2004 and comes up with new stuff.

3) There is also a hard-core metal band named Sickbag in Estonia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lahyQKUxT6I
 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3E9MBm0blzg
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sickbag">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.