Sifr was conceptualized as early as in 2000 by Saquib Malik. Based in Lahore, the extreme metal scene was virtually non-existant. Playing in a band named Sickore at the time, but having unfulfilled the idea of a solo project was brought up, taking on the name of Sifr. Early demos and jams were recorded, featuring Saquib playing all the instruments and recording on an old 4 track recorder.

As time wore on, and disenchantment with the dead scene grew, Saquib began to seriously give Sifr a lot more time than ever before. A track, titled Cacophany of Madness was recorded in November 2002. Though a rough quality track,  the music shined through and there was a lot of encouragement from friends and certain members of the scene to give recordings and seriously go and see how it turned out. Saquib eventually became involved with another project, Corpsepyre, a Brutal Death Metal/Grindcore band, and virtually the first true extreme metal band from the Lahore area. Time was thin and as certain commitments had to be fulfilled over the course of the first 6 months of 2003, nothing could be done in the way of recording something solid. The time, however, was used by Saquib to work out around 5 solid tracks, inside and out and get them ready to lay down in the studio or wherever he could record.

In the meantime, Saquib became involved with Duskhorde Productions from Karachi... An invitation was extended to appear on the upcoming compilation album, Rise of the Eastern Blood with some other upcoming Pakistani extreme metal acts and gain some exposure for his own band. Saquib began work on a recording for Sifr as soon as he was free from prior commitments and finished recording a demo for Corpsepyre. Eventually, the music of Sifr took form as the demo Blessings of Madness. The demo was recorded in over 2 weeks and was written, mixed, produced and mastered by Saquib Malik himself. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sifr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.