The concept for SIG:AR:TYR came into being in 2003 as a musical project dedicated to the dark, grim history and mythology of Northern Europe. SIG:AR:TYR initially wanted to create very heavy and atmospheric music without the use of typical metal instruments such as electric guitar, bass, and drums. In late 2003, SIG:AR:TYR released The Stranger, a six song atmospheric journey revolving around the acoustic guitar and an accompanying short story about a mystical encounter with Odin.
 
Quickly gathering excellent reviews, SIG:AR:TYR was signed to Karmageddon Records (formerly Hammerheart) only two months after the release of The Stranger demo. SIG:AR:TYR's next project was to forge a concept work with more metal musical elements, while retaining the acoustic-ambient atmosphere. Unfortunately, before the album could be released Karmageddon went out of business and SIG:AR:TYR was back into the underground.
 
In 2005, SIG:AR:TYR released the debut full-length release, Sailing the Seas of Fate via Morbid Winter Records. The album, a mixture of metal and acoustic music, tells the story of a Viking quest to the far northern reaches of the world to retrieve an object to turn the tide of Christianity.
 
In 2008, SIG:AR:TYR released the second full-length album Beyond The North Winds that built upon the folk metal and acoustic atmosphere introduced in Sailing the Seas of Fate to create a powerful and diverse pagan metal album. Beyond The North Winds received many excellent reviews and inclusion on several top ten lists for 2008.
 
Riding the momentum of the great reception received by Beyond the North Winds, SIG:AR:TYR immediately plunged back into the writing and recording process in 2009 to create Godsaga, a darker, harsher album that explores the concepts of loss and sacrifice in the tales of both Egil's Saga and Odin's sacrifice on the world tree Yggdrasil. Godsaga is set to be released in early 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SIG:AR:TYR">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.