1) Symphonic Black Metal Band From Georgia 

Signs (FACEBOOK)

The band was created in cold winterday, 13 of december 2009 by ex-bandmates Sergi Shengelia (Angel of Disease, ex-  Mortyrium) and Alexander Gongliashvili (ex-  FLY, ex-  Mortyrium ) with Michael Lenz (Im Nebel). Influenced mainly by such bands like Borknagar, the 3 members started creating atmospheric, melodic, progressive black metal songs. Few weeks later George Zautashvili (Bohema, Angel of Disease) joined the band. After the line-up was complete, the band started working on their deut, yet untitled album. Based on the band members' huge experience and perfect mutual understanding the speed of songwriting was close to speed of light and just in 2 months after the creation, on february 16, an album recording has begun.

But when the time to record a clean vocals did come, it was revealed that there was no person in Tbilisi who could sing all songs as it sounded in the heads of the band members, that was the reason, why the recording have been suspended. the band even ceased to play for a while and because of it there were some changes in line-up.

Giorgi and Michail left the band and everything returned to the beginning. Only co-founders - Alexander and Sergi remained and it looked like the end of a band. But they decided to carry on. The decision was made that if Mr ' I.C.S. Vortex won’t record clean vocals, than nobody will do. So the band put the unfinished material on the shelf for a better times, and after a short timed hiatus continued to write music. The band recruited Shota Darakhvelidze(guitar), Dmitriy Kuzmin (bass, vocals) and Mindia Meladze, later replaced by Dito kubaneishvili(Keyboards). The style was changed towards Symphonic Black Metal and months later, in july 2011 the recording has started. During the recording/post production period, they made several live gigs, including a X-mass metal party in Erevan and Highland MetalFest, where they shared the stage with Throes of Down from finland.

December 15, 2012 became a historical date for the band, as their debut album ''Path of the Damned'' was released on Metal Renaissaise label. 

Currently Signs, with new band members Avto Bakradze (guitar) and Genadi Bagalishvili (keyboards), are working on the new material, and the recording is planned to be started in the first months of 2013.


2) Signs is a multimedia artist from austin, tx. signs just released his full length album with aural sects, "HOW SWEET OF YOU", which can be downloaded for free from auralsects.bandcamp.com. he has done a few other releases with aural sects and will soon be released the "certified" EP which is a collection of dance tracks dedicated to the hip-hop culture of the dirty south. he produces powerful yet uniquely ethereal dance music and hip-hop, with influences ranging from three 6 mafia to giorgio moroder to boards of canada. SIGNS. 

3) A progressive metal band from Den Helder, The Netherlands www.5igns.com .They released three albums (Chimera, Private Eyes & Source Code) and were working on an new album in 2009, but broke up in 31st of December 2009.

4) A metalcore band from Latvia formed in 2010. In the end of 2011 they released their first single “Side by Side”. is downlodable for free at http://soundcloud.com/signstheband/signs-side-by-side
 It

5) SIGNS are a DnB trio who have been tearing an exquisite path through the DnB scene with a sequence of huge releases on well-respected labels in the relatively short span of their existence. Their roots in Toulouse, France, and having all separately made their marks on the DnB scene with releases on labels including Dissected Culture, Chronic, Trouble On Vinyl, Vandal Rec, 36Hertz and Kosen Prod; they emerged into a whole new realm of production after combining their talents. Already hugely respected in the French DnB circuit, they subsequently exploded into International awareness with their first 3 exquisitely crafted releases on 'Red Light Records', 'Bad Taste Recordings' and ‘C4C Recordings’.

2015 brought with it some further mighty steps for the trio, which started with their ‘Headbolt – Codetalk’ release on Gridlok’s project 51 label, through a flurry of releases on French labels Vandal and Kosen which culminated with their debut release on RAM Recordings on Audio’s RAMlife compilation and their astonishing entrance to the Eatbrain label in the form of their ‘Naked Lunch’ EP. These huge releases were followed up with inclusion on Ed Rush’s personal Piranha Pool imprint, with these tracks featured on his Fabriclive mix, as well as the astonishing ‘Less Is More’ track as part of the MethLab // 1 EP on Bad Taste Recordings and tracks on the massive Mirror Universe LP from Eatbrain.

This year to date has seen the trio become a part of Noisia's might Division Recordings roster with their unique take on half-step in the form of DIESEL, as well as releasing on Australian label Plasma, alongside experimental dnb producer hybris.

With their initial releases straddling the Tech and Neuro genres, their sound has massive appeal, and combined with their energetic live show they have the power to send any dancefloor into fits. The trio are continually evolving their sound in the studio, carefully carving out what is set to be a bright future through their particularly original flavour. SIGNS is definitely a name to keep a close eye on – these guys are on the way to the top…

6) A Blackgaze band from northern Germany formed in the late 2010ies. With members of The Blue Screen of Death and Girlfriend. See: https://signs.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Signs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.