Sign of the Jackal was born in the cold winter of 2007 when four friends sharing a passion for classic heavy metal and horrorfilms came together in the very North of Italy, in the town of Rovereto. Influenced by heavy metal legends of the 1980’s such as Warlock, Black Knight, Taist of Iron, Black Lace, Judas Priest and Lizzy Borden, the core of the band was formed with Bob on rhythm/lead guitar, Sergio Mate on drums, Kill on bass and lead vocalist and frontwoman Laura on vocals.

Sign of the Jackal spent the bulk of their first year covering their favorite classic metal songs live, opting to avoid the hits and instead keep things interesting with a set list full of rare b-sides and obscure album tracks. Desiring a fuller, more complete live sound, rhythm guitarist Max was added to complete the line-up in April 2008. The line-up now complete, SOTJ began writing and rehearsing original music, incorporating their interest in classic horror and thriller films with the sounds of early 80’s underground European and American heavy metal to create their own unique image and sound.

Propelled by the encouragement of strong fan interest that began locally and spread quickly throughout Europe, Sign of the Jackal entered the studio for the first time during the winter of 2008 to record their debut two-track demo, aptly named the “Haunted House Tapes”. A nod to the old school, the limited edition demo was limited to only 100 CDs as well as 36 cassette tapes for the true die-hards and cult heavy metal fans.

With a string of dates throughout the spring and a signing with Heavy Artillery Records in May, Sign of the Jackal have begun 2009 with a bang and are poised to join the growing ranks of today’s heavy metal heroes. Fans of Warlock/Doro, early Iron Maiden, Enforcer and traditional heavy metal take note; when Sign of the Jackal come to fight for rock no prisoners will be taken! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sign+of+the+Jackal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.