Signs of Collapse is not your average metal band. While all the crucial ingredients are present (machine-like percussion, finger crippling guitar riffs, and pummeling vocals) what lies beneath the surface of their artful instrumention, masterful musicianship, and brain bending compostions is a motive: to break the confines of what is expected and what is possible in heavy music.

Compared to such bands as The Dillinger Escape Plan, Between The Buried and Me, and Necrophagist, Signs of Collapse forges their own path with a identifiably distinct sound. Well respected within their scene as the band who sets the bar for technicality and brutality, Signs of Collapse is relentless in their approach to deliver much more than complexity with their brand of schizophrenic yet harnassed music.

With multiple national tours under their belt and a forthcoming full length recorded at 37 Studios (See You Next Tuesday, Red I Flight, For The Fallen Dreams, A Second Too Late) Signs of Collapse looks forward to adding a lasting impression with musicians and casual fans alike.


Kill Your Radio
by Aaron Rajala
Real Detroit Weekly


“We spend a lot of time deconstructing and reconstructing our own music to make it both interesting to musicians, as well as coherent to listeners who have no concern what a polyrhythm or time signature is and who just want to rock.” It appears to me as though D-town based metal outfit Signs of Collapse ain’t no dummies. I am under the impression that the only genre that is taking significant steps to improvement is metal. Sure, there are some bad-ass outfits in every genre, but more often than not, the disciples of thrash seem to put the most thought into their work. Of course, one must first put a bullet in his radio to discover this. “Most mainstream metal does kind of blow, but it's all relative to who you say that to,” they say. “I can speak for the rest of the band when I say we personally don't care for bands of the metalcore genre or bands that basically use low tunings, chromatic minor harmonies and breakdown upon breakdown as a crutch. That music appeals to some people, but I think if their minds were opened up to bands outside of what you might see at Ozzfest or hear on The Riff, they would gain a new appreciation for metal beyond the Lamb of Gods of the world.” Does anybody read this? Will finding people with a little bit of goddamn music knowledge ever be commonplace? Fuck if I know, but if a select few people like SoC keep banging out the technical tunes, I won’t be hanging from my ceiling. Keep your shit trained to their Myspace for more. | RDW 


www.mysapce.com/signsofcollapse <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Signs+of+Collapse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.